https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239437.The_Ghost_and_Mrs_Muir
In a land far, far away, there was once a young girl who saw a delightful movie with Rex Harrison and Gene Tierney, that stole her heart and peeked her imagination and set some fairly unrealistic ideas of what love is or at least can be.
While browsing library shelves this week, what should that young girl, turned older lady, come across but the book from which that lovely movie sprang.
Off I go to the next book that must be read...but, I do thank the spirits of the library for plopping this one, unsought, into my hands.
Less than 200 pages, a really quick read.
In this case, I thought the movie (1947, and one of my favorites) did a really great job representing the original story.
The only thing that was really different is that Lucy had a second child in the book, while in the movie she had only a daughter.
My guess is that in the movie, it was too much to try to fit in the plotline an explanation of her relationship with her son; it was interesting to read it here.
What a wonderful, sweet and beautifully sad romance.
I loved it.
It is the story of a widow who wants to break out of the family restraints and live life her way.
She buys a house near the sea and meets it's invisible resident - the ghost of Captain Daniel Gregg.
The Captain helps Lucy Muir to live the life she wants - empowers her to say no - and is there every step of the way.
Interfering in-laws, a pompous son, a flamboyant daughter and even a love affair are all handled efficiently with the help of the Captain.
A perfectly delightful story seasoned with Captain Gregg's salty language-just as good as the movie and perhaps even better!
Some of my complaints in reading is that "nothing is happening"; Character Studies are generally not for me; Romances too sappy; Paranormal too unrealistic. So to my surprise I found this book to be a very sweet romantic look at one woman's struggle to mold her life on her terms. I was always tense when others, well-intentioned or not, tried to force her into "doing what was best" for her.To my surprise, I even cried at the end of her journey! A charming story.
Goosebumps at the end. I found it so relatable with so much truth in it. I loved this book!
This was such a nostalgic read. As a child of the 60's I remember watching the TV version on the ABC right before dinner. And the movie with Rex Harrison and Gene Tierney is a romance classic. Such a sweet and classic love story although as a book the characters are a little one dimensional and the writing a tad dated. But the descriptive passages of Gull Cottage and the wind swept cliffs balance this out and I dare anyone to read the last page without a tear in their eye!
I adored the movie; and thought it would provide me further insight to the characters I loved so much in the film.
If you like the film I highly suggest you read this book.
It's one of those easy, short, lovely books that you can read in a weekend.
It's also the kind of book that takes you through someone's life in a very straightforward and clear way.
Another thing that surprised me in a good way was the ending.
I really adored the ending and I thought the novel made some great points about life.
I zipped through this one--a charming, delightful novella about a widow, Lucy Muir, wishing to escape her domineering [though well-meaning] in-laws.
She begins to exert independence and settles in a cottage by the sea.
She meets the ghost of a sea captain, Captain Gregg.
The two form an unlikely but warm friendship which lasts through the years.
His wisdom and counsel along with prompt action rescue her from several scrapes.
To escape penury, she "ghostwrites" [wordplay intentional :)] his memoirs Blood and Swash which become a bestseller.
Ending of story just perfect.
A heartwarming story laced throughout with gentle humor.
Mankiewicz helmed his film with great sensitivity, while composer Bernard Herrmann provided a lush and haunting score, years before his many collaborations with Alfred Hitchcock.But while this film has been a favorite of many for almost 70 years now, few, I have a feeling, have read the picture’s source novel, "The Ghost and Mrs. Muir," released in 1945 and written by R.A. Dick (the pseudonym for Irish authoress Josephine Aimee Campbell Leslie, who passed away in 1979).
And as it turns out, Dick's original is every bit as good as its film, with some significant differences.In the book, the reader makes the acquaintance of Mrs. Lucy Muir, a 34-year-old (Tierney was 27 when she did the picture), recently widowed mother of two in the England of the early 20th century.

What a delightful, charming book! So quaint and yet quite funny with occasional profound wisdom--a real gem.
Having seen and enjoyed the movie version several times, I was delighted to run across the book!
And while I'd willingly watch Rex Harrison any day of the week and twice on Sundays, I have to say that the role of the captain is better written in the book.
For instance, he insists that Lucy apologize to Martha for her sharp words near the end of the story ("You can't leave her like that -- weren't you taught as a child never to let the sun go down on your wrath .
?"), which is something I would have liked to see in the movie.
This is a lovely gem of a book.
I liked it more than the movie, which is very good, and am so glad I just happened to see it on the library shelf.It is the story of a young widow with two children who decides to start asserting herself even though it is against her nature to do so.
Gregg told Lucy she would feel better soon and made her apologize to Martha the waterworks started, though it is not a tearjerker sort of book.
Lovely writing. Bittersweet. Such an incredible unique story.
A good story - which is why Hollywood bought it. However, not all that well written. Rather superficial. The heroine's character was a weak willed sort - she said and did things that made me wonder why the captain wasted his time on her. Other characters are mostly one dimensional. I have a feeling I may have stumbled on one of those instances where the film is actually better than the book. I had to laugh while reading this: ""This is not the least like 'Cranford'," Lucy said." - She wasn't kidding.
Closer to 3.5 stars.Isn't it funny when you have watched a movie and more than once, only to find out it was a book written long ago?
Of course, the movie was made decades ago but it never occurred to me that it was a book first.I first saw THE GHOST AND MRS MUIR in black and white when I was a teenager and fell in love with the ghostly charm of Captain Gregg, the sweet Mrs. Muir and, of course, the awesome music.
Until Lucy 'comes home'.I enjoyed reading how the two originally met.
Just take the time as I did and fall in love with the crusty, cantankerous Captain Gregg.
I've wanted to read this book most of my life, because I loved the movie so much (with Gene Tierney and Rex Harrison).
Now that I've finally done it, I'm strangely almost speechless.
I thoroughly enjoyed the book and cried like a baby at the end.
And I applaud the author for such an unusual and clever story.
And the movie makers for sticking pretty closely to the book.
But this may be the rare instance when the movie is even better than the book.
Reading the book only made me appreciate the beauty and the mood of the movie even more.
In my opinion, this book is one of those rare occurrences where the movie adaptation (starring Rex Harrison and the luminous Gene Tierney) actually improves upon the book on which is was based.A quick read, and does provide some background info. that the movie didn't (although again, the "filler" doesn't make the movie characters as enchanting as you'd imagine).Not sorry I read it, but glad that the scriptwriters modified it for film - otherwise, I don't think the movie wouldn't be the classic it is to this day.
I liked this book more than I thought I would, but what I loved most was finding out that the author was a woman who used the pseudonym R.A. Dick to publish. It’s too bad her other book is more difficult to locate. Hopefully I’ll be able to hunt it down at some point.
A classic and one I read every year! Highly recommend!
At 50, though, the idea that a very feminine woman -Lucy Muir- wants to stand on her own feet and is not only emotionally supported but actually helped to achieve her desire by a such an overtly masculine male figure -Captain Gregg- is even more meaningful to me.
The dialogue, particularly between Lucy and Captain Gregg is quite sharp, good and if the movie left you wanting more of those exchanges, the book happily provides them.
Deep and thought provoking - right up my street ;)
This was a pleasant read. Obviously not scary, as a ghost story; it's more like, uh, fluffy.
Delightful little bittersweet story to be read curled up in a cozy blanket on a rainy day. Saw the movie in my childhood and have fond memories of it.
Mlle Alice, pouvez-vous nous raconter votre rencontre avec Le Fantôme et Mrs Muir ?
Celui-ci m'a été fortement suggéré par Emjy, et je ne discute jamais les conseils lecture d'Emjy."Dites-nous en un peu plus sur son histoire...
Mais dès le premier jour, elle va rencontrer le fantôme de l'ancien propriétaire, mécontent de cette cohabitation forcée..."Mais que s'est-il exactement passé entre vous?
"Bien que l'histoire se déroule au début des années 1900, le roman est étonnement moderne et les sujets abordés toujours extrêmement actuels.
La force de Mrs Muir et sa façon de prendre son destin en main, parfois légèrement aidée par le capitaine il est vrai, ne pouvaient que me séduire.
I did a web search for "charming book", and this title popped up. I needed something to get the taste of "Eligible" out of my mouth, and this fit the bill beautifully.
I couldn't believe it when I finally read this wonderful story. I like so much the movie and that’s why I decided to look for this book (which I completely loved). A tragic and very comical romance of Mrs. Muir (a demure woman) relationship with the ghost of the captain (a rough and rude man), with a more than the brilliant end as love, transcends life itself.
I really enjoyed this little book! I have never seen the movie and the TV show was a bit before my time. It was a nice, interesting, well written read. I do have to say Lucy was a bit too helpless, but I suppose some women were in that time.
3.5 actually. Very, very close to the film with a few kind of weird differences. Am going to be doing an extensive blog post on it so I'll say no more here.
