https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250367.The_Allegory_of_Love
Great. And completed again in September of 2017. Still great.
I read it to mine the nuggets of Lewis wisdom scattered through the dry strata of Latin, Greek, French and Middle English.
It even added to my understanding of how people then incorporated the works of Plato and Aristotle in their systems of knowledge.Some gems of wisdom include the following: “All men have waited with ever-decreasing hope, day after day, for someone or for something that does not come, and all would willingly forget the experience.” “Potential genius cannot become actual genius unless it finds or makes the Form it requires.” “The mind posits in the past the desired thing which is really still in the future.” “When Catholicism goes bad it becomes the world-old, world-wide religio of amulets and holy places and priestcraft: Protestantism, in its corresponding decay, becomes a vague mist of ethical platitudes.” "Each of [Spenser's] deadly sins has a mortal disease." “Truth and falsehood are opposed; but truth is the norm of truth but of falsehood also.”The last quote is found in the midst of Lewis’ analysis of Edmund Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.
Outdated now, but still one of those things that you probably should read if you're doing anything about courtly love. It charts the development, through literature, of the kind of romanticisation of relationships we do now, and the development of chivalry.It did make me headdesk a couple of times when he said things like, "Monotheism should not be regarded as the rival of polytheism, but rather its maturity." It's just -- ugh. C.S. Lewis, your bias is showing.
And I'm finished. It was beautiful, and erudite beyond belief. I think its biggest flaw is a lack of an underlying coherence - is it about allegory? Is it about courtly love? What is the central thesis? Perhaps it's there, but I'm too dull to see it.-------------------------------------------------------------I'm finally starting!-------------------------------------------------------------Don't read this book without having read:Arthurian Romances by Chrétien de TroyesThe Romance of the Rose by Guillaume de Lorris & Jean de MeunTroilus and Criseyde by Geoffrey ChaucerConfessio Amantis by John GowerThe Faerie Queene by Edmund Spenser
That is not to say, of course, that his conclusions are true, but that he has a good sense of the literature and the ideas and is able to explain them well to the reader.
One specific instance that I enjoyed was when Lewis noted how, if he were laid up in bed with a slight illness for the rest of his life, in view of the ocean, and all he had to read was Italian Epics, he would be happy.
This sort of writing, to me, gives a view of a sense of literature studies that we have really done away with in academia.
C.S. Lewis has said "in my own reading I always sacrifice critics to the poets, which is unkind to my own trade." I'm afraid my reading of The Allegory of Love sacrificed the poets for the sake of reading more Lewis.
This is an academic work, and especially in the early chapters Lewis will frequently spout of passages and phrases in Greek and Latin that he doesn't bother to translate, but I never lost the thread of the literary narrative (which convincingly argues that medieval allegory was a forerunner to contemporary fantasy) and got to read a lot of Lewis' great peripheral pontifications on people and poetry.
Lewis with his don hat again. Indeed, one of his earliest works.Tracing some of the threads of allegory and courtly love through medieval history to the Renaissance. Heavy emphasis on the English part of the development. From Cretien's work to The Romance of the Rose through many English allegories to The Faerie Queen.Interesting stuff. I would quibble about some points -- that there was, in the early days, so much argument that married couples could not love shows that many people disagreed with it -- but it's a good overview.
C.S. Lewis is such an accessible writer you don't have to be a literary major to enjoy his contribution to the study of the early modern period. More specifically, I love his reasoning that Catholicism is allegorical because “allegory consists in giving an imagined body to the immaterial” and the “allegorist’s symbol will naturally resemble” any material body that Catholicism has already claimed for itself. I think this observation is particularly deft and speaks to his genius. He comprehends his subject so completely it shows in the clarity with which he explains it.
Allegory and Courtly Love in Medieval PoetryThe Allegory of Love is a scholarly book, but I think it can be read with enjoyment by anyone interested in medieval poetry.
Lewis, in fact, doesn't make use of them in much of his analysis of the poetry.
Here understanding allegory is quite important although Lewis gives the relevant overview in his analysis of the poem.
The next sections discuss the poems from the Romance of the Rose, through Chaucer, Gower, some of the lesser poets, and Spencer.
Still, I found the effort well worth it in understanding medieval poetry.Although much of the writing is scholarly, Lewis' humor peeks through.
Though full of insight and truth, Lewis assumes more of his reader than I am able to produce: a familiarity with a wide variety medieval poetic literature; and fluency in Latin, Greek, French, Old and Middle English. Perhaps these obstacles should do for this old man what obstacles did for me as a boy: present a greater challenge to overcome. If only there were not so many more books to read.
To borrow a phrase from the master critic himself, "to praise itwould seem an impertinence" since I know nothing of criticism.But despite the fact that I had read almost nothing that he writes about,I was greatly benefited by reading this book. Lewis' style is always a a strong corrective to ignorance and clumsiness on the one hand andoverwrought prolixity on the other. His thoughts edify like no writer's I know. I can easily say of him (and this book in particular amongall his scholarly works) what he said of Spenser: that to read him is to growin mental health.
Well written. What has C.S. Lewis ever written that wasn't great? For lovers of medieval literature and students of romance allegory it is a must-read. For anyone who wants to see another side of Lewis, his scholarship is much different from his theology and fantasy stories.
A fantastic overview (okay - it is actually pretty in depth) look at medieval love traditions. If you like history, language and love then you will enjoy this book.
There's...a LOT discussed in this book, but it remains pretty lightweight/digestible for medieval scholarship. I am a poor excuse for a scholar who relies on Lewis's judgment of courtly love poetry and poetic traditions more than I can evaluate his ideas for myself; the most rewarding aspect for me is probably seeing how different ideas, images, poems, and concepts that he discusses turn up, transfigured, in so many of his other books.More in-depth writeup to come later.
This book gets five stars because of the brilliance of Lewis's scholarship. The reader must beware that this book deals with the history of courtly love in literature and interacts with several authors that most modern readers have never heard of and have very little interest in. You will probably want to pass on this book unless you are interested in the development of allegory and the theme of courtly love. His chapter on Spenser's Faerie Queen is quite insightful.
This is a scholarly work, and not intended for a layman like me; I comprehend maybe a tenth of it. That's my failing and not the author's.I had to struggle through it, but I'm glad I did. Someday I'll read it again, in the spirit of a child learning new multi-syllable words from the conversation of adults. For now I've come away with some new ideas about the invention of love, and a wholly new desire to read some of the poetry Lewis analyzes in this book.
A challenging read, much of it over my head, but some gems that helped me more clearly see Don Quixote and others things I have read and a few thoughts that help me understand why the classic books feel richer and have more depth than many of the newer books do and why it is so easy to read Christian themes into stories, even when the author may not have intended them to be there.
Read because I’m reading through Lewis. . .really should be read with Medieval literature instead.
Superb monograph by a gifted scholar.
The book I read was published in 1967 pale yellow with blue boarder, any way I read the book in 1968 July.
It has seven sections and my favorite part to read is Courtly Love part I and Allegory Part II, and I have read several of his children's classics.
I always thought men with good morals developed them because of those who taught them.It is true that women were not loved as they are today, and they were treated as property.
This is why in certain religions there view of sex or child bearing reasons do not relate to the Christian beliefs.
I was slightly annoyed that Lewis did not translate the old English, Latin, or French texts, but I suppose he was assuming that you have a base of those languages if you took an interest in medieval poetry.
In it a man enters the court of love and decides to earn the rose (his love’s heart) by sort of journeying through the court and every person he encounters is part of his love that he must learn how to earn over.
I think it was especially important to read this book because allegory is on the rise again but this time surfacing in rap and slam poetry.
This book deals with the tradition of courtly love which dates from about the 12th century in France up through Spenser's The Fairie Queen, which depicts the triumph of married love over courtly love.
I really enjoyed this book, even though the only books that it covers that I have read are the Lancelot of Chretien de Troyes and Mallory's Morte d'Arthur.
His descriptions of other books are good enough that I can enjoy them even though I haven't read them.
It is interesting that the book is only a little bit dated even though it was written about 1937.
Easier to read than OHEL simply because it is shorter, but nonetheless there is quite a bit of dull author stuffed in for the sake of the story of Allegory and Courtly Love.The first chapter is quite good and the thread of courtly love is quite fittingly held onto all the way through the book to the end.The chapter on Allegory is good, and I want to read (at least the first part) of the Romance of the Rose.
Ariosto and Tasso make a greater impression than all the poets between Gower/Usk and Spenser, despite the short space in the story.
Spenser here is better handled than in OHEL and has the added advantage of defeating Courtly Love.
The Allegory of Love, published in 1936, explores how love was treated in the Middle Ages and Renaissance times.
The book brings up many traditions of the time and draw on the use of allegory and how love is depicted.
The book looks at love in different lights and in different manners.
The book would encourage history and literature within a lesson.
The Middle Ages and the Renaissance are typically interesting to students and would provide a unique side to the times that is generally not looked at.
A study of love in different times would provide an interesting lesson to students.
2.5I thought this one was alright. I think I would get more out of it if I'd read more of the works that he mentions throughout The Allegory of Love. Also, there were several quotes or lines in other languages and that makes me curious. Was his audience able to understand those languages, then? I don't know why else an author would do that without translating. But, yeah, that kind of broke up the text for me as well. But some parts were interesting, especially in the beginning chapter.
Mi piace aggiungere ogni tanto libri letti secoli fa, nell'utopico intento di riuscire un giorno a ricostruire tutte le mie letture. Questo splendido saggio meriterebbe un'attenta rilettura, che mi propongo di fare tra le mille. Racconta di come l'amore (il "codice" d'amore socialmente inteso) sia un'invenzione letteraria. Di età medievale: l'asservimento alla donna amata riproduceva infatti la struttura vassallatica della società. Da lì discende anche la donna-salvatrice di Dante. Il Medioevo era un'epoca di grandissima civiltà.
Lewis has worthwhile stuff to say on virtually every topic, and of course every literary period. This one traces the development of the courtly love tradition in medieval literature to its consummation with Protestant theology and the married love tradition in Spenser. It gets dry in places, but Lewis's broadmindedness and desire to unearth something to praise in even the most forgettable authors is admirable.
Lewis is a brilliant man and writer, and I am sure the literary critic will find this book enjoyable and helpful. But seeing that I am not a literary critic and have not read most of the works Lewis comments on here, I found this book difficult to follow. If I was qualified to rate the book on its own merits, I suppose I would probably give it five stars, but since I'm not qualified I can only rate it based on how much I enjoyed it or benefited from it.
I never thought that I would grow to love the medieval period as much as I do now. Books like this one only make my love bigger and encourage me to find out more about the period and its writings. The Allegory of Love is an excellent tool to help you read not like a modern reader but like, let's say, a reader living in chaucer's times. It wasn't the easiest book i've read this year (still much easier than patterson's chaucer and the subject of history) but in general a very satysfying one.
A pioneering book in its day, about the rise of courtly love and love in medieval allegory, this book has been overtaken by subsequent research and also reflects some of the prejudices of the author, with some use of sexist language as well. For students of medieval literature it is probably still worth reading, but for ordinary readers its value is doubtful.
