https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9850375-right-ho-jeeves

Old Bertram is in dire need of moral bracing, since one of his recurring spats over wardrobe with his trusted man Jeeves has left him without valuable advice just when he needed it most.
Bertie blames it on bad luck and on the French: If I hadn't gone to Cannes, I shouldn't have met the Bassett or bought that white mess jacket, and Angela wouldn't have met her shark, and Aunt Dahlia wouldn't have played baccarat.
If you want to find the connection between sharks, white mess jackets, baccarat, devil's costumes, newts and French cooking you have come to the right place at Brinkley Court.
But can even Jeeves transform a newt like Gussie into a dragon?
Bertie Wooster takes the reins from his gentleman's gentleman Jeeves, who had everything well enough in hand, and soon everything's gone pear-shaped, if that's the expression I'm looking for.
Meanwhile his meddling upon a friend's behalf almost divorces Bertie himself from his beloved bachelorhood, egads!
When one comes to the realization that they are a first class idiot, it's time to throw in the towel and call the National Guard...or even better, Jeeves.Well now, how can you go wrong with a comedy that has "Right Ho" taking up two-thirds of its title?
The 2012 re-readGussie Fink-Nottle is in love with Madeline Bassett but can't seem to talk to her.
Madeline Bassett is in love with Gussie Fink-Nottle but thinks Bertie Wooster wants to marry her.
My love for P.G. Wodehouse is such that if the zombie apocalypse occured and Wodehouse came staggering toward me with a lust for brains, I would be completely unwilling to shoot him.The second full-length Jeeves and Wooster novel is a big improvement over the first.
Right Ho, Jeeves, the second Jeeves and Wooster novel, is a much better read than the first.
Unless pie-eyed, you cannot hope to grip."Gentlemen," said Gussie, "I mean ladies and gentlemen and, of course, boys, what a beautiful world this is.
Two Irishmen, Pat and Mike, were walking along Broadway, and one said to the other, 'Begorrah, the race is not always to the swift,' and the other replied, 'Faith and begob, education is a drawing out, not a putting in.'"  I must say it seemed to me the rottenest story I had ever heard, and I was surprised that Jeeves should have considered it worth while shoving into a speech.
**WOOSTERS' GUIDE** (as opposed to boring old Webster's guide)*Woosters are men of tact, and have a nice sense of host obligations.*Even when displaying the iron hand, Woosters like to keep the thing fairly matey.*When woosters put their hand to the plough, they do not readily sheath the sword.*Woosters are fair minded, and make allowances for men parading through London all night in scarlet tights.
(my favorite)*Woosters like to have their story ready.*A Woosters' word is his bond.*Woosters are quicker witted than the ordinary man and can read between the lines.*Woosters are ingenious, Jeeves, exceedingly ingenious.
Much hilarity ensues, featuring Bertie getting himself engaged to a Manic Pixie Dream Girl, Brinkley Court’s French chef, Anatole shaking “a few fists” at Gussie clinging to a roof for dear life, fire alarms going off and many other lunatic incidents.Right Ho, Jeeves is a little unusual in that it is an actual novel rather than a collection of short stories like the other Jeeves books I have read.
Every line was perfection. I kept laughing out loud and looking for someone to read bits too, but alas, there was no one who appreciates this the way I do at hand. The real tragedy, though, is realizing that I will never have friends with awesome names like Tuppy Glossop, Pongo Twistleton, and Gussie Fink-Nottle!
Soon I was smiling and trying not to giggle too loudly.In Right Ho, Bertie Wooster manages to bungle things severely with two different couples who are staying at his aunt's house, and even accidentally gets engaged to a silly girl who talks of fairies and stars: "I don't want to wrong anybody, so I won't go so far as to say that she actually wrote poetry, but her conversation, to my mind, was of a nature calculated to excite the liveliest suspicions.
G. Wodehouse should start with this novel, which is sometimes called BRINKLEY MANOR.
G. Wodehouse's most famous characters, Bertie Wooster and his butler, Jeeves.The Jeeves novels are like Sunday comic strips come to life; early Sunday comic strips of the sort printed around 1915, where people at dinner parties knock over elaborately placed dinner tables.
There is a great deal of slapstick in Wodehouse's novels.The great thing with the Jeeves novels is that they are narrated in the first-person by the very opinionated main character, Bertie.
Wodehouse's strong suit is his absolutely classical use of language as juxtaposed with his sharp sense of jazz-age slang.
Is that she wants him to give some presents, in the local grammar school, to the small children.Bertie is terrified,the man also has to give a little speech, in front of the whole village.Disaster follows disaster, as Wooster without any help from Jeeves.Bertie insists on that, when he tries himself ,to bring together two couples and get them to the altar.The shy Fink-Nottle and Madeline, his cousin Angela, and her estranged boyfriend, Tuppy Glossop.
If you’re already aware of the books but can’t quite determine which one this is (after all, they do share very similar plots), then this is the episode with Gussie Fink-Nottle dressed as the devil and Bertie making an eighteen mile round trip on an old bicycle to rescue a key which was in Jeeves’s pocket all along.The interesting thing with these stories is how Wodehouse gets around the Superman problem.
By creating tension between the young master and his valet, by letting Bertie get the idea that Jeeves has somehow lost it, we are treated to over two hundred pages of hilarious thrills and spills as Wooster’s advice causes calamity and disaster at every turn.
Five stars aren't enough for a book that contains Gussie Fink-Nottle's speech at the Market Snodsbury Grammar School. Any writer who ventures into comedy should read some Wodehouse.
È così... inglese!
"Stimulated by the juice, I believe, men have even been known to ride alligators."With lines like these, it is definitely not difficult to love a Wodehouse book.
Or at least some of them do.Wodehouse, in his own inimitable style, then goes on to describe the fun and at times laugh-out-loud events that happen and things tumble down, and eventually rise up.
Oh, Bertie. Oh, Tuppy. And oh, oh, Gussie. An engagement to the more delicately nurtured of the species can go a bit rummy under certain circs. Not to mention prize-giving at that bally Market Snodsbury Grammar School. Bertie does his best to save the day, based on his knowing "the psychology of the individual", but as usual his schemes only serve to make chaps go to fires from frying pans. Thank goodness for Jeeves!
One of the (many) fine Jeeves and Wooster novels from between the two WWs. Certainly takes one away from the newspaper headlines. Numerous chuckles, occasional guffaws. Right ho, indeed.
Bertie's voice in the Jeeves books is one of the greatest achievements in all of comic fiction--absolutely consistent, totally confident, unerringly wrong.
Madeleine's dialogue is Wodehouse in top form, as is the prize presentation at a local elementary school in which Gussie Fink-Nottle, drunk for the first time in his life, makes the keynote speech.The plot springs primarily from Bertie's conviction that Jeeves has sprained his brain and he, Bertie, had better step in and take charge of fixing all that's wrong in his immediate world.
I saw that it would be fruitless to try to reason with her.
Quite plainly, she was not in the vein.
Contenting myself, accordingly, with a gesture of loving sympathy, I left the room.
Whether she did or did not throw a handsomely bound volume of the Works of Alfred, Lord Tennyson, at me, I am not in a position to say.
I had seen it lying on the table beside her, and as I closed the door I remember receiving the impression that some blunt instrument had crashed against the woodwork, but I was feeling too preoccupied to note and observe.
The rummy thing about life is that though you feel exhilarated that you've read a wonderful book, you begin to get the wind up your pipe wondering why the dickens you hadn't read anything from this author-chappie ever before
4 1/2 stars (extra 1/2 star for the narration!) Once again, Jonathan Cecil gives a marvelous reading of Bertie and friends.July 2018 relisten -- no change to the above :)
აქამდე სად ვიყავი, ჯივზ?!
Great stuff.

এ কী একখান বই কিনলাম, সারা শরীর অকষত, খালি পরথম পাতা নাই। কিছু একটা যে নাই, সেটাও আমি বুঝি নাই পরথমে, বিশ পাতা পরে গিয়ে বুঝেছি।তামাম মুলূকের সবাই জানেন, উডহাউজ হাসাইতে পারে, পদে পদে, পদানুকরমে। সে কী এক-একখান বাকযি। এই পাতা ছেড়ে ঐ পাতা উদধৃত করে কার সাধয!আমার বযকতিগতভাবে বলযানডিংসের কাহিনীগুলি বেশি ভাললাগে। সে যাই হোক, চরিতরের দোষে উসটার আর জীভসই সেরা! এই বইয়ে এক জযাকেট আর ফিঙক-বোটল নিয়ে যা দেখাইলো তারা।অপরাপর উডহাউজের মতই, এখানেও পরেম ভেসতে যায়। ভাসতুক, কিনতু আজতক কাহিনীর সবলপতাহেতু ইনি কারুকে

I have read the "Jeeves stories" over and over having discovered them the first time years ago when i was home do to a broken foot I'd gotten on my job and had to be down a bit.
While I almost always feel obligated to warn perspective readers that you might run across some words or phrases in a very few of these stories that are today found offensive (as you will if you read Mark Twain) please remember that they weren't meant that way.
I can't believe it's taken me so long to get around to reading any P.G. Wodehouse. Clearly I've been missing out. One of the funniest books I've read in a long time. Bertie Wooster's narrative voice is hysterical! Just marvellous. I'm out to hunt down more!
Just loved it. It took me a little while to get a hang of this type of writing. This kind of writing either gets you totally engrossed or you throw away the book. For me it was the former. Couldn't stop laughing out loud many a times. Try it, be patient,you may love it.
My preference is for the Bertie and Wooster short stories because usually the novels seem to drag a bit in the middle but this one was consistently funny. Loved it.
My favorite Wodehouse yet.
