https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/742728.The_Miscreant
By night, she is a passionate Negress, dead in the bathtub wearing her cheap trinkets.)which may not be everyone's cup of tea; but I like them, even though I am not at all certain what these metaphors are trying to communicate besides "ornate", "in ruins", "tawdry".Jacques Forestier is a young and skinny bisexual who loves to do the opposite of what one expects, but always with a little twist.
Unlike  Le livre blanc, the story in this book is told with some sympathy and warmth; the initial irony of the opening is dropped while Cocteau revisits his own memories.
my second read from jean cocteau's oeuvre, i am beginning to develop a love/hate relationship with his writing style, punctuating scenes from the novel with poetic metaphors that lend some truth to his character's sensibilites.these 'interruptions' only work when when you have experienced or actually have knowledge of what he is referring to in his metaphors.
it makes you more in tune with his character's way of thinking.
but i find that most of them are lost on me as this book is dated and what worked then to readers of that period probably has no effect now.
I read this because I saw the last two paragraphs quoted in a Belle and Sebastian video. (Is that lame?) If you've seen Cocteau's films, you might be expecting something a little more like a fairy-tale. This book is pretty solidly in the arena of coming-of-age novels, although because of the time and place it chronicles (France in the early 20th century), it has a little exoticism than, say,  The Perks Of Being A Wallflower. Cocteau mocks the ideal of the tortured teenage poet while providing plenty of flowery slogans for those who aspire to such goals.
I love Cocteau's epigrammatic prose style. It's heady and addictive and enthralling. This novel (his first, dating from 1921) is a masterpiece. The actual story is fairly slight, merely an account of a love affair that goes wrong among a couple of denizens (he more sensitive and less pragmatic than she) of a semi-Bohemian corner of Paris in the early years of the 20th Century; but the way the tale is told is truly exquisite. This fine edition includes many of Cocteau's unique drawings. A wonderful novel, tragic but luminous.
Elizabeth Bowen described this book as “butterfly-like,” and there is an ephemeral quality to both the story and its style. I found some scattered sentences to be very evocative. For example, “Memories of human beauty stayed with him like wounds.” and “In reality, he was leaving a dry skin floating on the Grand Canal, like a snake’s slough hanging on a wild rose bush, as light as foam, slit at the eyes and mouth.”
Exquisitely French, Cocteau's one liners, insights, and descriptions are beautiful.
Content wise, it is arguably influenced by Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther and surely influenced Perks of being a Wallflower.Cocteau's prose captures young, passionate love.
Like many "good" love stories, it is primarily the account of Germaine, Jacques and Osiris.
They were right, as they were often to make love afterwards""A road can sometimes look so different on the way out and on the way back that traveller, coming home thinks he is lost.""When everything is moving at once, nothing appears to be moving""She was afraid of the caretaker...not in the case the caretaker would think "another one", but in the case she would be shocked to see that she no longer went in alone"."The heart lives in confinement.
4.5 starsAn excellent read.
I found the characters at his précepteur's place much more interesting than the rather flat love story.The style is a delight - though I found hard on some occasions to understand some bits.
I think that is to be blamed on the fact that J.Cocteau's writing here is very situé: that is he uses metaphors and alludes to things that a modern ready might not know.
I particularly enjoyed how Cocteau writes homosexual love/attraction into his story : that is to say, seamlessly.
If only the world was like that.This story broaches a lot of interesting themes amongst which beauty, the influence of beauty on us.
All in all a refreshing read!
Le style de Cocteau est unique et splendide. Une narration singulière pleine d'images audacieuses mais qui semblent tellement évidentes : "la mer trop courte et qui ôte toujours à une plage ce qu'elle donne à l'autre", "pour vivre sur terre il faut en suivre les modes et le coeur ne s'y porte plus",...Le récit est celui d'une entrée dans l'âge adulte et d'un coeur brisé pour la première fois par l'amour pour une femme volage et inconstante. La teneur est éculée mais la manière rachète tout.
This book and its analysis of the human condition is both harsh to the point of being scientific and utterly poetic. Jacques seems to get no sympathy from anyone, not the mysterious narrator or Germaine, even his own mother is partially ignorant of his suffering. A true representation of the loneliness of adolescence.Also, one of the few novels with pictures that you can read and still feel intellectual.
Meet Cocteau where he is, don't expect him to be like anyone else. His sentences are filled with insight. Read his prose, watch his films and look at his art to capture the full effect.
Adolescent nonsense saved by decent prose.
