https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/941105.The_Black_Angel
Beginning to read this story is like swallowing that first shot of whiskey, feeling it burn our throat as we get dizzy, and fall into a fever dream, which is how Chandler described his work.In a sense, The Black Angel is a type of pub crawl, the female protagonist going from one name on her list to the next in order to clear the man she loves of murder.
This of course, adds to the criminal case against him, but for the reader, and Alberta, it sets up the largest portion of Black Angel, which is a suspenseful search through the names in the book for the real killer.As with many a Woolrich story, time is of the essence, as the chair awaits Kirk unless Alberta can find Mia’s killer.
Dozens of films were adapted from his books, including Black Angel, Fear in the Night, Rear Window, The Bride Wore Black, and Original Sin, many of which I had never heard about.
But I liked it a lot.The book is unusual for one published in 1943 in that it is narrated by a woman, Alberta, who discovers her husband has been having an affair.
Her husband, having travelled to Hell, drags her through his affair down with him, one way or the other.There’s a sort of seedy Calvinistic tone to Black Angel, rooted in some kind of bleak nihilism that is appealing to me for some reason.
Can she find the killer before her husband is executed?My problems with this book started with the premise.
Alberta went up against some interesting characters: the mistress's ex husband who had degenerated to a drunk in the Bowery, a drug pusher, a lady's man, and a gangster.
After the Bride Wore Black, I was hoping Woolrich would sucker punch me with the revelation that the husband did it all along and Alberta had gone through hell for nothing.
The ending wasn't bad but wasn't as good as I was hoping for.
After three of his books, I'm convinced Woolrich was a misogynist.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAord...Description: A novel as hypnotic as it is suspenseful, its atmosphere haunting, its shadows long, this intimate thriller by past master of noir fiction Cornell Woolrich delivers its unfailing angel from her waking nightmare into a chillingly impossible dream.From the 1930s until his death in 1968, Cornell Woolrich riveted the reading public with his pulp noir. Classic films like Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window earned Woolrich the epithet "the twentieth century's Edgar Allan Poe.
April 2018:When I see this review now, I cringe, only because I said Highsmith is the one significant female Crime writer of the mid twentieth century.
Since then we have had the printing of Library of America's Women Crime Writers of the 1940s and 50s books.
And Kindle or e-reading has created a whole renaissance of availability of old books, and wonderfully this includes many novels by women.
As far as I can tell, this is extremely unusual for pulp crime from 1943.
Even Highsmith, the one significant lady crime writer of the mid century era, almost always wrote about men.
The Black AngelBy Cornell WoolrichPublished 1943 Blackstone AudioRead by Hillary Huber5 StarsThis outstanding classic crime story is about a newly married pretty young woman, Alberta French, who believes her husband is cheating on her. As she discovers it’s true, she goes to confront her husbands lover. As she approaches the woman’s apartment, seeing the door ajar, she enters calling out. No answer. She slowly walks around the apartment criticizing the decor, then heads toward the bedroom. She s
The Black AngelBy Cornell WoolrichPublished 1943 ﻿Blackstone Audio﻿Read by Hillary Huber﻿5 Stars﻿﻿﻿This outstanding classic crime story is about a newly married pretty young woman, Alberta French, who believes her husband is cheating on her.
As she approaches the woman’s apartment, seeing the door ajar, she enters calling out.
This is the best part of the story, because this 22 year old woman is fearless as she goes through the address book belonging to the dead woman, looking for men with initial M or names beginning or ending with the letter M.
Αρχετυπικό νουάρ, ενός από τους Γενάρχες του είδους. Η πλοκή με τα σημερινά μέτρα δεν είναι κάτι ιδιαίτερο, πολλώ δε μάλλον, ρεαλιστική. Το σκοτάδι είναι εκεί όμως, το Ύφος του συγγραφέα περνάει από τις "χαραμάδες" και σε στιγμές μάς ταρακουνά. Σίγουρα ενδιαφέρον.
Scrivevo nel novembre 2016 su Annobi:Letto per staccare da Mann e dalla sua Montagna incantata, ma se questo è quanto preferisco tornare al tedesco.Una lettura trascinata, saltando alcuni passaggi, cosa che faccio raramente, terminato perché era breve e perché la curiosità di sapere chi fosse il colpevole spesso diventa l’unico motivo per cui ci si dilunga in gialli poco avvincenti. Peccato, avevo percepito buone valutazioni su Woolrich, e invece per me si è rivelato una delusione, per non parlare della monotonia di stile, forse non sono capitata su uno dei suoi noir più riusciti.
For this reason, and because I was uncertain if I had ever read a Woolrich novel (I've read plenty of his short stories), I was quite eager to read The Black Angel.I discovered that the movie really took no more than the bare bones of the plot -- a woman's husband is convicted of the murder of his floozie, and the wronged wife must race against time to prove his innocence -- before inventively taking the story in quite different directions.
Not my favorite of his, but I had tons of distractions while reading this, so it might just be me.
One is that I had seen a couple of film noirs I thoroughly enjoyed based on Woolrich's books, so I was curious about his work.
It is, in simplest form, about a woman whose husband is sentenced to death for murdering someone, and her efforts to prove his innocence.
Woolrich cleverly unravels the story in a series of encounters the woman has with various shady suspects so that she can lure more information from them to help her cause.Woolrich's story is far from complicated.
It is a straightforward, linear novel without a lot of sidebars or minor characters.
Highly recommended for film noir fans and mystery/suspense afficionados.
This was my 3rd Cornell Woolrich book to read, and I think I have to say it's been my favorite of his that I have read so far.
This book was excellent, full of suspense, thrills and chills galore.
Something I've enjoyed so far about Woolrich, with my very limited experience, is that he presents his mysteries in a different way than pretty much any other mystery writer, which I suppose is why, from what I've been able to pick up, he's considered more of a suspense writer than a "mystery" writer.
Anyway…this novel explores the plight of a young wife who just learns that her husband is leaving her for another woman.
She learns who the other woman is and goes to see her – to beg her to give her husband back.
She follows up on some clues she had found in the girlfriend’s apartment and narrows the list of suspects down to three men.
Woolrich leads us on a merry chase as we follow the wife in her investigations of the three men.
Some of the situations are loopy and some of the dialog is almost unbelievable, but we follow along to see who the real killer is.
Not Woolrich’s best novel but well worth the ride. A framing story contains four connected stories as Angel Face tries to find out who framed her beau for ‘ol Sparky. Woolrich can’t go without giving you a big little twist in the end. Full of patented dreary, paranoid, and hopeless metaphors it will leave the world weary and pessimistic disappointed.
Woolrich knew the art of writing.His descriptions were so creative.Hillary Huber did a nice job narrating.Slow start but, soon hits her stride.
His best known novels include The Bride Wore Black, Black Alibi, and Waltz Into Darkness.This is a very unusual book and not everyone is going to like it.
Woolrich was a master at taking the reader inside the character's thoughts and the first person narration can be fairly intense and suspenseful.Plot-wise, here is a young innocent wife, Alberta Murray, who to her shock and dismay, finds clues that her husband has been unfaithful.
And, now, dear reader, you start to wonder if Alberta was telling the truth or if she went right off the rails when she found out her husband was having an affair.
She removes any clue to her husband's connection to Mia, including the address book.
Protagonist Alberta French investigates her husband Kirk's extramarital affair with Mia Mercer, only to discover the woman dead in her apartment.
She knows Kirk's innocent so she swipes Mia's address book before vacating the murder scene, because it has Kirk's name in it.
Kirk, who was repentant and about to break off the affair, is convicted of the crime and sentenced to death in three months' time.
It's up to Alberta to track down all four contacts with "MM" initials from the address book one-by-one, in order to identify the real killer.
I am pretty confident that if I wasn't reading this book to fulfil a challenge I am participating in, it would have been a DNF.
Maybe because it was written in the 1940's but it felt so much like I could picture it as a black and white movie, the way she described things were almost theatrical.
like come on.
It would take me a lot to do all that for someone I liked let alone some cheating asshat...
Don't even bother, I mean unless this kind of book is your thing...
Wow--this is perfection. I have been hunting Cornell Woolrich like the dodo bird and this was the first thing I was able to get my hands on. I am not disappointed--a noir women's adventure--amazing. The main character, Alberta French, is brave, naive, quick to learn, and an all around good egg--but she still gets trapped in the snare that is noir. Beautifully written, exciting and tense and unpredictable. I cannot wait to read more of Woolrich if this is any indication of what I can expect.
A solid, old school noir mystery. Excellent writing, although the dialgue is a bit stilted for the modern ear--but no worse than watching an old b@w movie. The first-person female narrator presents in interesting study for feminist readers/writers.
This is copy 40 of 300 signed numbered copies, signed by:Rex Burns (Introduction)Matt Mahurin(Cover Illustrator)Jacob McMurray (Jacket Design)
Loved the evocation of another era--could even imagine the dialogue being spoken with the crisp elocution of the movie stars from that time period.
For a lot of people getting past the premise is a problem.
Yeah, I understand why you think YOU as a reader might not react that way, but through his excellent first person narration Woolwich makes the motivations and worldview of his female main character perfectly clear.
I had some issues with how contrived the plot was, but the writing was so good that I looked past it most of the time.
Many of the characters are undone by love, and Woolwich is cynical about it, asking us to speculate whether love really isn't just lust in disguise, or something a whole lot worse.
Cornell Woolrich was one of the great noir and suspense writers of the mid 20th century and very prolific.
The Black Angel was first published in 1943 and is the story of a woman, Alberta Murray, whose husband was convicted of the murder of his sometime mistress and sentenced to death.
Alberta still loves him deeply and is convinced that he is innocent - he had been convicted only on circumstantial evidence, and she has discovered a notebook of the dead woman which has four names and numbers listed of men, one of whom she has reason to believe is the real murderer.
But in pursuing them she finds herself descending into the seamier side of life in New York City.
Another noire tour de force by Cornell Woolrich.
"The Black Angel" is Alberta Murray, a young woman who, when her husband is charged with murder, possesses the knowledge that he absolutely didn't commit the crime.
She sets out to find the perpetrator possessing few clues but an abundance of grit, determined to get her man off death row.This is the 4th novel in Cornell Woolrich's 6 "Black" series (all the titles featuring the word black).
Woolrich pulls the reader into the shadowy, bleak world of quality norire fiction with the ease of a master story teller that he is.
A good ‘whodunit’ from Woolrich. Set in the 1940’s, a young wife must prove her husband innocent of murder with only the victim’s personal address book to help her. With the case closed she must track the real killer through the seedy streets of NYC before her husband is strapped to the electric chair. Although a little slower than some of his other works, I found it entertaining as always.
I don't think the plot or main character have quite held up for nearly 75 years, but the prose is wonderful and atmospheric. An excellent performance by Hilary Huber certainly enhanced the experience of listening to a book without a single grammatical error or usage flaw
truyện kể về một thiếu phụ đi điều tra minh oan cho chồng-đang là nghi phạm giết người và khoanh vùng được 3 nghi can... Motif hơi giống Phantom Lady nhưng truyện kém hấp dẫn hơn, đoạn kết cũng không bất ngờ bằng. Chỉ ở mức đọc được.
A woman whose husband has been accused of murder determines on her own to find out who is the real killer.
She embarks on a private investigative journey that leads her to the ex-husband of the murdered woman, a drug dealing doctor, a rich playboy who was in love with the victim, and a gangster whose connection to the victim is unknown.
One of these, our Black Angel is sure, is the real killer.
This isn't deep fiction by any stretch, but if you like crime thrillers you'll enjoy this one.
This book is narrated by a young and apparently beautiful angelic wife of a cheating husband.
When she discovers her husband's bags packed for a getaway from married life, the wife decides to confront the mistress while her spouse is at work.
She discovers the other woman strangled in her home -- the front door held open by a clue to the identity of the killer.
Woolrich is very effective at building terror and suspense, which is made believable given the character of the people "angel" finds from the address book.
