https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81980.America_s_Great_Depression
Of course, if limited government (i.e., NONE), free markets (i.e., unrestrained capitalism) and non-intervention with the money supply (i.e., the Federal Reserve must go) are not under-pinnings of your own economic beliefs, or (i.e., the ASE is just not your bag), this book may cause hives and periodic bouts of severe chafing.
Actions that he argues led inexorably to, and greatly extended, the Great Depression.Rothbard traces the inflationary practices of the Federal Reserve (which the ASE despises and considers the earthly manifestation of SATAN) beginning in 1921 and argues that the Fed's manipulations of the money supply and its artificial expansion of available credit was a root cause of the factors that would eventually lead to the Great Depression.
Rothbard's great analysis of the causes of the Great Depression is one of the classics of Austrian economics and a must-read for serious libertarians. Rothbard presents conclusive evidence explaining the crucial mistakes made by Herbert Hoover and later exacerbated by FDR, that deepened and prolonged what should have been a short and sharp depression. The Federal Reserve is also fingered as the culprit that expanded credit and the money supply and created the stock market bubble in the first place.I read it several years ago and am rereading it now for the book club meeting.
Of course, Rothbard goes on to ignore this restriction and applies every economic statistic he can that could possibly support his thesis and either quietly ignores everything else or points to them as confounding features actually driven by other factors that he doesn't need to explain because they are too complex!All that said, the book is still worth reading both (a) to help to understand Austrian School adherents (who have a lot of sway today with the push for austerity) and (b) because he does make some good points with respect to government intervention in markets.
This is practically a technical handbook on how to screw up the economy so bad that it can take years to recover--if recovery is even possible.The author names the people involved, the tangle of agencies and bureaucracies they created, the wild-eyed philosophies they espoused, and the step-by-step tinkering by the Feds that, step-by-step, made things worse.
You can also see where some of the empty political rhetoric and programs today came from, and see how they're still making things worse.The Great Depression gained its foothold much earlier than the Hoover Administration, when government tinkering according to the Keynesian philosophy under the oversight of Wilson, Harding, and Coolidge created the boom of the Roaring Twenties.
What was eye opening was that the architect of the Great Depression was Hoover, who implemented most of the progressive ideas being championed by the democrats, and that directly led to and worsened the depression.
If Hoover had not been so married to the ideas that failed for the farmers, he would not have applied them to other parts of industry and the banks.
And FDR was only too eager to continue the policies that Hoover was so married to.
Hoover's ambition led him to be so blind to the unfolding facts, there was no way he was going to see that he was the architect.
Roosevelt did not create any "New Deal", he only continued and deepened Hoover's policies to combat the crisis.
Rothbard proved that the crisis affected to a much greater degree of capital goods than consumer goods, which confirms the thesis of the business cycles of Mises.
Kiedy nadszedł kryzys, Hoover nie kierował się polityką laissez faire, a aktywnie ingerował w rynek.
Dochodziło także do redystrybucji pracy, przez zmniejszanie liczby godzin(stawki godzinowe utrzymały się na tym samym poziomie) i zatrudnianie nowych pracowników.
Chętnie poczytałbym o tym, jak Roosevelt pogłębił interwencjonizm zainicjowany przez Hoovera.
Read Rothbard’s America’s Great Depression. A 1963 treatise on the 1930s Great Depression and its root causes, written by this remarkable Austrian School economist. Worth reading as we seem not to learn the lessons from the past.
For whatever reason, we are taught that Hoover was a believer in markets that attempted to let the free market restore the economy following the stock market crash and the ensuing economic crash.
This was also a time of large productivity gains; prices remained fairly stable despite significant monetary inflation.
Rothbard details this Bank of England-Federal Reserve Bank of New York relationship and how it shaped U.S. monetary policy.
Rothbard makes the point that the 1921 mini-depression saw more rapid declines in prices, yet the economy recovered in about a year.
The Great Depression, and specifically Rothbard’s “America’s Great Depression,” are fantastic lessons in Austrian economics.
Such stuff is shown in the book to be utterly without merit and unable to stand up to close scrutiny.Obscuration and political expedience combine to keep the authentically discredited work of Keynes around as the go-to playbook for fighting recession.This book will teach you about the failings of Keynes' ideas; how experiments in Keynesianism by Hoover and Roosevelt actually hurt people and extended the Great Depression, and how advocates of Keynes' ideas are either ignorant of better operating and more complete Austrian theory, indoctrinated by modern curricula which teach only Keynesianism, or (most dangerously) are simply disingenuous.-----I give it 4/5 for it's instructive primer at the beginning, detailed and interesting historical account, and carefully annotated format.
Despite President Hoover using every progressive economic method of government interventionism, he left America in compete devastation with unprecedented length and concentration even though he was described as the shining white knight.Other than Rothbard’s Man, Economy, and State with Power and Market and Mises’ Human Action, America’s Great Depression is astonishing, and it incredibly explains the disaster of government inflation in creating economic booms followed by the inevitable bust, and the depression was prolonged by government interventionist policies.
Overall, the Great Depression is a significant time in United States history, and this book goes beyond the scope of what really happened compared to that of conventional wisdom.
And a central theme is that, contrary to popular belief, Hoover's policies are not laissez-faire ones, but heavily interventionist in nature.
But in terms of real insight, I don't think the book offers much.
The belief in the infallibility of the Austrian school of economics is deeply entrenched.
But the tone of the argument would have you believe that to doubt the assertion is lunacy.
I'm no economist, but I'm not sure the Austrian logic about how to handle a severe recession/depression is convincing.Finally, even the book itself admitted that the policies set out in the Hoover administration are to put humanity in front of profits.
Deconstructing step-by-step the Keynesian economics that put us there, Rothbard (an unabashed student of the Austrian school) shows in meticulous detail that Government intervention lengthened, not shortened, America's period of greatest economic hardship.
Faced with two equal and opposite choices -- allow the banks to fail, or allow the currency to fail -- the nascent Fed chose the former; further political strategems clouded much of the macroeconomic picture to the point where the situation appeared intractable.
Conventional wisdom says World War II snapped us out of the depression; Rothbard suggests (and strongly supports the position) that allowing Market forces to come to equilibrium would have solved the problem faster.
Very good book about the depression using Austrian Economic principles to diagnose what happened.
Also a good book to bust the myth that Hoover was hands-off during this period.
What is forgotten is that in the 1910's, 1920's, and 1930's is that a progressive form of government was prevalent in both parties.
The lessons we have for now, is that too many people in both parties likewise believe in these progressive ideas.
Look for a repeat of what happenned back in the 30's for what will hit us now.For more you can check-out my blog entry that provides the conclusion from the book: TripleHash
This is the most complete, accurate account of what really took place before, during, and after the Great Depression.
This will put to rest all of the fallacies and mis-information that we all learned in school, such as WW2 got us out of the great depression and that the Federal Reserve had to exist to keep the country in tact, when in fact the exact opposite is true.
The book is not the easiest read in the world, but it has to go through a plethora of information to accurately portray the actual events that lead up to the depression, what caused it, and what made it perpetuate for as long as it did.
This is the book at converted me to the Austrian School of Economics several years ago.
For anyone who thought that the Great Depression was a failure of laissez-faire capitalism, AGD is a must-read.
Besides explaining the causes of the GD, Rothbard destroys the myth that Hoover and Roosevelt were polar opposites.
In fact, since The New Deal was merely a continuation of Hoover's policies, Rothbard's historical focus covers the period from 1921-1933.
Much of the focus is on the Fed-created boom of the 1920s, which sewed the seeds for the disaster that followed and was perpetuated by Hoover and Roosevelt.
I'm reading AGD for the second time.
This book relates the history of the Great Depression that you weren't taught in public school.
I am amazed how politicians are trusted like angels to do the right thing.
This book is so revealing about both republican and democrat presidents and how both parties protect their own self interests rather than the public's.
I will never see President Hoover in the same light again.
He may have been a smart man and a great engineer but it's hard to engineer an entire national economy.
There is no substitute for Individual self reliance, adherence to liberty and freedom, and healthy skepticism for government 'solutions' to our problems.
This is one of the first books on economics I ever read, when I was a junior in high school.
It really helped me to understand the parts that didn't make sense about what they were teaching in school on the Great Depression.
I would really like to go back and read it again now, and see if I'd still have as high an opinion of it.
But from what I remember, the scholarship was quite good, and the arguments well reasoned.
I'm not sure if I made it all the way through back then, but I remember it being relatively readable and entertaining for a work on economics.
Murray Rothbard applies the Austrian economic theory to the Great Depression, and analyzes the lead up to the depression and the myth that Hoover was "Laizzes Faire". Everybody knows Roosevelt extended the depression through his "New Deal", but somehow the myth perpetuates that Hoover wasn't an interventionist. Rothbard expertly shreds that myth.The depression would have been over in about a year to a year and a half (like all other panics and depressions that preceded it) had Hoover simply kept his damn hands off the economy.
Thoroughly debunks that myth that Hoover was a laissez-faire president and that too much capitalism brought on the Great Depression. Reads like a technical banking manual at times, and Rothbard's disdain for intervention in the markets comes through at odd intervals. One criticism I have is Rothbard's constant use of AMOUNTS instead of PERCENTAGES. To explain inflation he'll say the money supply increased by X amount of dollars, rather than by X percentage, making context very difficult.
A book for our times. I was reading this when the bottom was falling out of the economy and it read like todays headlines. Nothing changed from 1929 to 2009 - the causes were the same and the situation identical. The outcome is predictable. A must read for anyone looking for answers - or better a road map of the economic future of the US.
This book is the quintessential free market critique of the events and government actions that created the most severe depression the US has yet faced. A must-read for anyone interested in what caused the Great Depression, or any depression for that matter. The parallels with the current "great recession" are scary.
This book was amusing and interesting in an educational way. It was a good book for doing a research paper and help me understand more about the great depression. It compared the economic strategy with the Austrian theory. It provided great information about what the government and Hoover was doing before and during the great depression about what they were doing about the economy.
I used this for research.
Excellent book. It paints a clear depiction of the economics that not only led to the Great Depression but also the policies that made it truly "Great."
Detailed account of credit dynamics in the lead-up to the '29 crash.
This book provides a fantastic explanation of Austrian Business Cycle Theory and provides great historical analysis of the great depression.
Difficult for me to decide on the number of stars.5 because the ideas in this book shake the very ground I walk on.4 because it's very technical and assumes knowledge of some economic terms.
The book is detailed enough for a historian, while providing key insights for the lay reader. However,the immense detail on dates, stats, and people was overwhelming for a lay reader. I pretty much just read the last sentence of each paragraph, which would give a succinct summary statement. Doing this makes the book more readable and provides useful insights. The book discusses the causes of the depression and the political decisions that made it "great" instead of another minor one as with every previous economic downturn.
A very good Austrian Economics analysis of the Great Depression, the prior boom and the inadequate mass response. The book begins with a somewhat technically dry style but it soon clarifies the logic behind its thesis. It makes it clear that much of what we think to be innovative or unique is in fact not. It is therefore difficult to comprehend that one is reading something that happened almost 90 years ago and not last year.
This isn't really a history of the Great Depression so much as an argument for why the Austrian school of economics explains the Great Depression. In my opinion, it is repetitive as well as not especially convincing (and I think the Austrian school is generally correct). It's a slog, and does not provide an especially new view of the Great Depression.
