https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72334.Notes_on_the_Cinematographer
Robert Bresson Notes on the Cinematographer is my philosophy book or self-help book for putting things together in what I feel, or need, to be real in stories, images, moments.
I need to have some sort of organization up there (thumping my noggin right now).My movie is born first in my head, dies on paper; is resuscitated by the living persons and real objects I use, which are killed on film but, placed in a certain order and projected on to a screen, come to life again like flowers in water."Hm.Doing the same action twenty times in rehearsals will lead to doing them without thinking about them.
Some nice interviews on youtube with this great genius: https://youtu.be/FRAztry-ZoIhttps://youtu.be/DVODh2lkVdc"The mixture of true and false yields falsity (photographed theater or cinema).
The false when it is homogeneous can yield truth (theater).
An actor simulating fear of shipwreck on the deck of a real ship battered by a real storm–we believe neither the actor, nor in the ship, nor in the storm."" The truth of cinematography cannot be the truth of theater, nor the truth of the novel, nor the truth of painting.
(What the cinematographer captures with his or her own resources cannot be what the theater, the novel, painting capture with theirs.)—————————————–An image must be transformed by contact with other images, as is a color by contact with other colors.
The only thing these films ask is that one share a fraction of Bresson's single-minded concern for the souls of young people whose innocence causes them to fail at the cruel, irrevocable task of adulthood.'The affinity might not seem obvious at first; Cooper writes transgressive punk pornography.
In his masterful films, perhaps Bresson offers this same vision of Christianity before or even without the resurrection.
Bresson isn't quite "New Wave"--he began making his pieces a bit earlier and rather than developing an instantly recognizable "style" (like Godard or Fellini), he developed the approach outlined here that resulted in movies that superficially may seem quite different but bear a deeply personal stamp.
Rather than try to summarize the lyrical, introspective, improvisationa, near-Zen, vision, I'll include a series of quotes that capture the flavor of the book:"To create is not to deform, or invent persons and things.
It is to tie new relationships between persons and things which are, and as they are." (p.
يقول عباس كياروستامي عن بريسون أنه أحب كتابته ونظرياته السينمائية أكثر من أفلامه,,أنا حتى اللحظة أشعر بالشيء نفسه بعد مشاهدة محاكمة جان دارك,النشال وموشيت لكن لم أشاهد له بعد لا المال ولا فيلمه الأشهر مذكرات قسّ ريفي..أجمل ما في بريسون هو إيمانه بالسينما كفن مختلف عن بقية الفنون الأمر الذي لا يزال الكثيرون حتى الآن يخلطون بينها وبين بقية الفنون دون أن يستطيعوا أن يفهموا السينما كفّن قائم بذاته.."السينماتوغراف"
Robert Bresson is one of my all-time favorite filmmakers - and this book doesn't take away the man's mysterious powers of the cinema. It adds to it. Bresson's film notes are poetic and beautiful. He is truly an essential figure in the arts, and one can't help to think that the cinema was made for artists like Bresson.
I'm currently constructing my own vade mecum. This is one of The Books.
უდონესი ხელოვანია რობერტ ბრესონი,მისი ხედვა,ბუნებრივობის შეგრძნება და აღქმა ჩემთვის სრულყოფილებაა.მის ფილმებში კარგად ჩანს ეს ყველაფერი.ეს წიგნი ნამდვილი ბიბლიაა, პირველ რიგში მსახიობებისა და რეჟისორებისათვის.
Collection of insights into making movies, an art Bresson calls "cinematography," not to be confused with what's commonly called cinematography or cinema.
Actors are called "models" -- and they should be unrecognizable conveyors of volitionless expression, or something like that.
Metaphorically valuable for those not making movies.
Ideal pretentious bathroom book or stocking stuffer for a young aesthete.
With that said, it's only pretentious in that it's the work of someone who thinks deeply about artistic prearrangements required to create philosophically ideal effects that stay true to a precise understanding of reality expressed via the knotting of images deemed simple and true.
en stor 3'er!
It's a book about film that doesn't talk about any films.
What the book consists of are thoughts about filming -- thoughts that are very different from one one usually thinks about as film, which Bresson associates with "the terrible habit of the theatre."Robert Bresson is a great film director, so consequently his Notes on the Cinematograph is well worth listening to.
Unlike many famous directors, such as Hitchcock, Ford, and Bergman, Bresson never had a stock company of actors he used in film after film.
In fact, I can't think of any actor he used more than once.
Instead of actors, he talks about models.

برسون : ایده تو خالیِ "سینمای هنری" و "فیلمِ هنری".
فیلم های هنری، فیلم هایی که بیش از همه عاری از هنرند.یادداشت ها - جملات - برسون در باب فیلمسازی پیش از هر چیز نشان دهنده طرز تفکر او درباره فیلمسازی است .
تاکیدش بر تفاوت سینمای عکاسی شده - که همانند تآتری است که از آن عکس گرفتند - با سینما خلاق ، تاکیدش بر استفاده از نابازیگر به جای بازیگران حرفه ایی ، تاکیدش بر عدم نیاز به موسیقی در سینما .
همه از سینمای او میگویند .
سینما، رادیو، تلوزیون مروّج بی توجهی اند. مردم نگاه میکنند، بی آنکه ببینند و گوش می کنند، بی آنکه بشنوند-برسون آنچه امروز به اسم سینما به خورد تماشاگران حریص آن داده میشود، نوعی عامه گرایی تمام عیار است که چهره ی مبتذل خود را در پس نقاب اصالت پنهان میکند-مترجم
In an era where excessive size and scope in films have become the norm, even with indie directors immediately jumping to direct blockbusters, it's good to have a book like this from the father of minimalist film, Robert Bresson. Written in a way to match his style, spare and austere, these thoughts of his are honestly helpful even outside of film. I recommend this book to both the film student and beginner directors. It's obvious that no one can emulate Bresson, but it still proves to be helpful to anyone that wants to start small.
Not to attempt a review when the reading is enough.
"To think it more natural for a movement to be made or a phrase said like this than like that is absurd, is meaningless in cinematography."I find myself becoming increasingly conflicted with the more effort I make in the attempt to analyze Bresson's work, his philosophy, and with this—his manifesto of sorts—I've only found myself even more frustrated.
Robert Bresson, being the idiosyncratic director he is, views the world of cinema entirely from the perspective of a cinematographer rather than from that of a screenwriter or, y'know, a director.
I don't find Bresson's films compelling in any which way.
Noise, music, and silence.
These are the three constants in Bresson's aural cinematic universe, and silence was the most prized tool in his cinematographer's toolbox.
Bresson realised that the enigmatic power of the stylised image (he referred to his actors as "models), utilised correctly, burns brightly - blazes - onto the memory.Bresson's treatment of his "Notes..." is just like his cinematography: everything superfluous is purged.
Every serious director should examine the various techniques of Robert Bresson (but they are so hard to emulate!) and explore and respond to them.
بريسون دائمًا كان يربط الفن بالشعور وليس الفهم، فيقول في كتابه "مذكرات حول السينماتوغراف": "مخيلتك لا تطلب الأحداث، بل العواطف؛ عواطف ما استطعت لها توثيقًا" لذلك نجده يربط دائمًا بين المسرح (الذي يعتمد على المشاعر معظم الوقت) والسينما، بل يرى أن المسرح هو الأب الروحي للسينما. لذلك كان يريد أن يُظهر أبطاله على طبيعتهم، فهو لا ينعتهم ب"ممثلين" بل "موديلات". وفي مقابلة معه يقول: "أتمنى أن تشعر الناس بالفيلم قبل أن تفهمه".
Truly a collection of notes, some expressing fragments of thought, others more complete ideas about the art of film. Through this accumulation of opinions, questions and insights, Bresson reveals his interest in the use of silence and sound, the effects (mainly bad) of the theatric mindset on the cinema, the uses of models (his term) versus actors, and other facets of the art he practiced so notably.
Goofy and overly rigid but nonetheless essential for people like me who spend more time than maybe they should considering the ontology of movies and the various ways the mediums of the 20th century intermingle with and influence each other.
Anyway, it's in general very inspiring and insightful and often funny and I can't say I won't often think of some of his more broad and applicable ideas when considering certain movies, whether his, someone else's, or my own.
Kind of difficult to comprehend at times. Some interesting observations but I can't help but feel Bresson is convinced by his observations as 'truth' like many artists. Good for provoking thought and as a subject of debate. I personally abhor manifestos or any attempts at rule making in art.
"The point is not to direct someone but to direct oneself."An interesting name for a book which is not a book about cinematography, as it mainly talks about the dos and don'ts of creative filmmaking. A precise collection of notes that will tell you all that Bresson learnt during his lifetime. I am not sure if I could comprehend all the points that he has made in this book, but I am sure I will keep revisiting it for years to come, to fully understand it all.
A bússola do estudante de cinema, o diário confessional do cineasta, a poesia do cinéfilo.
«The thing that matters is not what they show me but what they hide from me and, above all, what they do not suspect is in them.»«A whole made of good images can be detestable.»«The noises must become music.»«Catch instants.
Expect it.»«Create expectations to fulfil them.»«The crude real will not by itself yield truth.»«Laugh at a bad reputation.
Fear a good one that you could not sustain.»«Prefer what intuition whispers in your ear to what you have done and redone ten times in your head.»«Let nothing be changed and all be different.»
A tidy, Zen-like summation of the special aesthetic Bresson brought to film.
Bresson wanted faces, not actors; events, not scenes; "BEING instead of SEEMING." To this end he insisted on amateurs over trained actors, noises over music, slowness and close-ups over speed and pans.
Cinematography as Bresson explains it here is a unique form of writing.
His efforts to make an essentially mechanical & visual medium parallel the inwardness of the written word has to be one of the strangest and most fascinating projects in the history of film.
Not surprisingly, he writes beautifully, and these aphoristic koans, surrounded by all that empty white space, are as haunting as anything he captured on film.
This modest collections of aphorisms would not be in print were it not for the (justified) stature of its author as a metteur en scene. It is, however, a perfect example of why motion pictures have a niche in the realm of art--just as there are sentiments which can be expressed with prose (and not visually), the converse is also true. Bresson's attempts to express the ineffable "soul" of his filmmaking in words is largely pointless and doomed to frustration. His films, such as  Journal d'un curé
This modest collections of aphorisms would not be in print were it not for the (justified) stature of its author as a metteur en scene.
It is, however, a perfect example of why motion pictures have a niche in the realm of art--just as there are sentiments which can be expressed with prose (and not visually), the converse is also true.
Bresson's attempts to express the ineffable "soul" of his filmmaking in words is largely pointless and doomed to frustration.
His films, such as 
, for example, tell us so much more about the subject than his little book ever could.
Huge Bresson fan; laud the ethos behind his approach to filmmaking; seen em all; respect the man immensely - I'm going to be the detractor on this one; unfortunately this collection of notes doesn't really do much. Yes, there are some nuggets of greatness buried in here, but the collection is largely repetitive, some of his observations frankly just don't make sense, and yes, I'll say it, it's pretty pretentious. Trudging through this didn't come easy. I really, really, really wanted to glean something more out of this, but alas, no.
This one is destined to be carried with me everywhere, to become a rotten and stained go-to for when I'm stuck, for when I need to be reminded where I started from. Not quite like the Oblique Strategies Deck, but similar in the contemplative and reflective nature for my writing, which I had some inkling was related to my previous career as a photographer. This book helped me see more clearly that bridge.
كتاب جميل للمهتمين ، التدوينات قصيرة جداً ، واعني بالقصيرة ممكن تاتي تدوينة على عدة كلمات وأقل من سطر، ومتفرقة في المحتوى لايوجد سرد فعلي في الكتاب، غالبا بريسون كتبها بشكل عشوائي دون تخطيط عدة افكار وآراء حول التصوير السينمائي وهويته ، الترجمة + تنسيق الكتاب افسدت جزء من المتعة
