https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4339445-the-treasure-of-the-lake
The last proper Allan Quatermain story (Allan and the ice gods, brilliant though it is can not really be described as a proper Quatermain adventure) this is actually one of several works published after Haggard's death.
Haggard is repeating himself rather a lot by this time, but is still remarkably fresh and compulsive.
Haggard does leave quite a lot of loose ends though making me wonder if he was planning a sequel.
Actually this is probably the eeriest book in the Quatermain series, Allan (as he does throughout the series) tries to come with rational explanations for what's going on but the uncanny atmosphere throughout the novel makes even him struggle.
All long disappeared into dust, now, along with Haggard, Quatermain, and tableaux that obsessed the author.Treasure of the Lake is yet another episodic adventure through the hidden heart of Africa.
It follows Haggard's usual formula for the Quatermain series--a skeptical Allan seeking to rationally explain what cannot be explained fully without recourse to spiritualism and the occult.
Once more, Allan brings along Hans, his Hottentot companion and friend, who throughout the series has continued to grow into a sustained voice of wisdom, even while he mocks, chides, and even ridicules Allan at times.
Would that Haggard have lived to write many more, this being one of three, I believe, of his posthumously published novels.
UKUPNA OCENA (overall rating) ★★ 2/5 starsRadnja (story) ★★Ideja (plot idea) ★★★Okruženje (setting) ★★★Pripovedanje (writing style) ★★Likovi (characters) ★★UTISAK (summary) - početak je obećavao još jednu avanturu Alana Kvotermejna ali nedoslednost u priči, jednoličan stil pisanja, isprazni i ponavljajući dijalozi istih takvih likova kao i dosadna radnja čine knjigu jedva čitljivom do kraja.
This is the first book of H. Rider Haggard's I've read. The story is fascinating. I can see how this became the first of the Lost World genre of books. The main character is Allan Quartermain, the character Sean Connery played in the League of Extraordinary Men. Haggard's hero also became the inspiration for Indiana Jones.
Read several of Haggard's books and enjoyed them all
