https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18641982-the-vacationers
Or maybe at the end of the book the plane would crash and the whole detestable, wealthy, privileged family would die on their way home from Mallorca, where their dream vacation in a giant private house near the ocean had been marred by secrets coming to light and infidelity.Really, the only character I liked here was Carmen, the personal trainer girlfriend of the older son, who commits the unpardonable sin of being ten years older than him, wearing tight clothes, and working out a lot.
The author seems to like these family characters.
I don't know what else would explain this book being anointed this summer's must read.The writing was perfectly fine, if nothing special, but the story itself was so ...
Older son is a screw up living with an older woman he doesn't love so he cheats on her in order to end the relationship.The book's only novel characters are Charles and Lawrence, an older married gay couple who want to adopt a baby.
As a reader, I'm baffled why critics think I'd want to spend time with these boring, unpleasant people.
I guess the other summer books must have been really bad.
Mostly whining.Nothing really "happens" in this book..it's like attending one big boring family reunion where you get seated beside your seventh cousin twice removed and all they do is drone on about a two week vacation( and it feels like it takes them two weeks to describe it.)Someone had to have been paid a great deal to write the glowing "professional" reviews I read of this book.
I should have read the Goodreads reviews first!
The storyline is slow, the characters are unlikeable and the only excitement that really happens is the 18year old daughter losing her virginity to a 20 year old Mallorcan.
A beautifully written boring story
I guess I'm going to miss saying "god I hate this book" every 10 minutes. I can't stand it anymore. I just realized I have two chapters left and it hasn't stopped sucking once. Throwing in the towel.
This is the tale of Franny: a short, fat, petty shrew of a woman who goes on vacation with her gay (of course!) best friend and his partner; her philandering husband Jim; her spoiled, useless children; and Carmen, poor, poor Carmen.
Even though Jim can't stop fantasizing about his 23 year-old intern lover with the long blonde hair and supple waist for a single living minute, he really is very, very sorry and desperately wants his fat wife back.Lesser plots ensue- Franny and Jim's asshole son leaves behind the family scrabble marathon and his super-fit girlfriend Carmen one rainy night to get a blow job from a random ugly british chick in a Palermo disco bathroom.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars “Secrets are no fun for anyone. Keep that in mind.” When my husband asked what I was reading about over the weekend, the answer was simple: Nothing. He followed up that response with, “uh oh so it’s a 1 Star book then?” I surprised him by saying no and here I am giving The Vacationers a solid 3.5. I still stand by this being about “nothing” when compared to most other books I read, but I remember a certain television show whi
Whatever the reason, I somehow ended up with The Vacationers on the first weekend where it was in the 60s rather than during the summer when I probably should have read it due to the fact that I spend my free time ingesting baseball field dirt rather than soaking up the sun at a place like Mallorca .
Even though the timing was off, I somehow still enjoyed this book (from looking at the 3.14 general GR rating I probably read it wrong).
A book that takes place over the course of two weeks that is simply a snapshot of the goings on during that time period.
A quick summer read following vapid, detestable characters who try to escape their problems but ultimately have to face them while on family vacation. Basically exactly what you expect it to be. It delivers on drama and wraps up nicely. Perfect for making you feel a little bit better about yourself too.
I will admit that I was hesitant; although I had high hopes, I didn't love Emma's previous book, Laura Lamont's Life in Pictures, so I didn't expect to be reading her again any time soon.
(I'd love to quote you some specifics, but immediately handed the book over to my mom upon turning the last page.) But one of the things I loved the most is that all the braided plotlines were resolved in really satisfying ways, and it felt like everyone absolutely got what they deserved—both good and bad.
Then again, I paid for my own copy.We follow the middle aged, upper-middle class Jim and Franny Post, their son Bobby and girlfriend Carmen, their daughter Sylvia, and Franny's best friend Charles and his husband Lawrence on a two-week vacation to a house in Mallorca.And naturally everyone's either reeling from A Big Thing that just happened or is on the precipice of A Big Thing that's about to happen.
Ever.There are some really fantastic scenes, and Straub gives her characters opportunities to naturally divide into smaller sub-groups and talk with each other.SPOILERS...The way the characters were written, I didn't want Jim, Franny, Bobby, OR Charles to get a happy ending.
“What were parents anyway,” Franny’s daughter asks, “except two people who had once thought they were the smartest people in the world?” Contemplating her adulterous husband, Franny admits, “Like most things, sex got better with age until one hit a certain plateau, and then it was like breakfast, unlikely to change unless one ran out of milk and was forced to improvise.”Before this summer vacation is over, hearts will break, fists will fly, and too much olive oil will flow.
From the middle aged couple with marital problems, to their virginal eighteen year old daughter and her twenty-eight year old brother with his cougar "fitness trainer" girlfriend, the fun begins.
The teenage daughter has her own problems because she got drunk at a party and has to try to live with the embarrassment of her actions, all recorded for posterity on social media.
The two week vacation gives characters plenty of time to explore the island and their relationships, all trying hard to face their struggles and reconcile their problems.
I don’t read books based on seasons, but I guess if the definition of a “beach read” is a novel filled with shallow characters, clichéd situations, and the faintest hint of racism, then The Vacationers is the perfect beach read.
Of course, you have to allow for differences in taste, but I’m disappointed in Maria Semple, the author of the brilliant  Where’d You Go, Bernadette who says this book will “leave you smiling for days.” No, it’s had me writing a nasty review in my head for days, even before I was half-way thru it.
The Vacationers is like one of those tasteful independent films that could just as easily have been a mainstream film if only it had more famous actors in it.
There aren't any of those odd moments where people's true selves come through and you learn to see human nature in a slightly different way.
Well, I might have cared if they seemed like real people instead of stock characters.
In that way, I suppose it wasn't all that different from being on an actual vacation: The Mallorca of your anticipation is, sadly, never exactly the Mallorca you get.
I read this book over the course of 24 hours.
I feel like I have been on this beautiful vacation and back again, with an engaging family and their two friends.
I simply adored this book.
First off, what a wonderful vacation spot, Mallorca Spain.
I found this lovely island on the map, and just as I suspected it is the actual home of Rafa Nadal, who I'm sure was the inspiration for the tennis star mentioned in the book, by a different name.
That's very high praise from someone like me who dislikes romance books with a passion!
A great summertime read, I couldn't be more pleased to have won this from librarythings.com.
By the author of the disappointing Laura Lamont's Life in Pictures.
I was skeptical about the book because of my experience with Emma Straub's earlier novel.
I have learned that /when/ I read a book can have a great deal of influence on how much I like it.
I read this after three very readable novels.
One of them is 640 pages long, the previous library borrower was a smoker, and still I couldn't put it down.
So almost anything short of Pride and Prejudice was going to disappoint when I picked this up.
Very thin, even for a summer read. Thin on plot, thin on characters...too cliche. The book read almost like a story pitch for a movie. I had expected it to be a little more fun. Ah well...

Book club or not, I just can't hang with these spoiled, dysfunctional, nauseously annoying and shallow wannabe A-Listers. After reading several reviews voicing similar opinions, I wondered how this book made so many "Must Read" summer lists. And then I thought - Ah, the power of marketing: making dandelions smell and sell like roses. Fleecing the masses. Case in point: Pet Rocks.
My favorite thing about this novel is the love Emma Straub has for her characters. It emanates from every page like a balmy Mallorcan breeze and before you know it, you love the Posts and friends, finding it sad to say goodbye when The Vacationers ends.
No matter how idyllic, relaxing, and/or fun the plans seem like they'll be, some type of crisis, tension, or anguish (if not all three) is sure to arise, and turn everything at least slightly topsy-turvy.And so it goes in Emma Straub's newest novel, the fun, breezy, The Vacationers.
In Straub's capable hands, the plot flows like the waters of the Mediterranean, and the characters, while flawed, hook you quickly.This is a book about the balance between keeping up appearances and letting it all hang out, dealing with the truth or continuing to live in denial, and fighting for what you want (as well as what you don't).
The kindest thing I can say is that I am not the audience for this book.
Right before leaving, the patriarch has revealed his affair with an intern at his magazine, which has led to his premature "retirement."I feel like Emma Straub created some interesting characters (Carmen, Sylvia, Lawrence) but then didn't know what to do with them, so they floated in the background until convenient and more of the story focuses on the matriarch Franny, who I found unlikeable and possibly understandably cheated on.
So many moments and possibilities for conflict are ignored.-Carmen is dismissed because she is so much older and not as sophisticated as the son, but she is a fierce physical trainer who probably deserves to get swept off her feet by a rich/dangerous Spanish man/woman.-Sylvia started off a bit nerdy and awkward and this could have played for more humor.
The summer vacation - two weeks in a beautiful rented home in Mallorca - has been long planned, but recent developments have changed the tone of the trip and given everyone something to think about.
Their son needs to decide if he wants to stay with his floundering real-estate career and his much older girlfriend in Miami.
If you think it might be fun to hang out on an island with a nice family for two weeks and see what they get up to, this book will work for you.
More wry and observant than fluffy, a vacation read with a little bit of a bite.
Jim and Franny Post from Manhattan take a family vacation to Mallorca to celebrate their thirty-fifth wedding anniversary - although at the moment, they aren't exactly speaking.
Accompanying them are their angsty but droll teen-aged daughter and shiftless grown son, the son's older girlfriend who no one likes, and Franny's gay best friend and his husband.
Everyone has a secret or a "situation," and the story is told from each point of view as the two-week vacation rolls by.
A few of the characters aren't very likable, but they're all interesting.A 3 or 3.5.
I rated this book a 3, mainly because I wasn't pulled into it the way I hoped I would be.
The beginning was very dull and the family seemed completely nutty.
They go to Mallorca for a two week vacation to run away from their problems but all of their problems seem to follow them.
Everyone seems to have an issue with someone else that is on the vacation with them and there is a lot of tension in the house.
I just couldn't get into it and I really didn't care for the characters.
Not my favorite book for the year.
My thought process went a little something like this: Oh excellent, another book I might read halfway, struggle through it, and eventually give up on it.
I was pleasantly surprised by this one.This was a quick and easy read with interesting characters that kept me turning the pages.
(view spoiler)[Yes, Franny spent most of the book avoiding Jim and barely speaking to him, but the brief public outburst did not seem enough to simply pack away the issue at hand.
Vacationers is no vacation at all.
Unless your idea of vacation is waiting for the cheater to get decked, the annoying mother to get her due, or the sulking virgin to find her Romeo.
But they aren't fun to be around.
And they are NOT fun to be on vacation with, especially on my summer vacation.
(Actually I was rooting for the virgin to get her sandy, beach romp.)I hated the relationship between Mama Post and her longtime friend Charles.
Gay or not, the way she hung on and kissed on Charles disturbed me and showed big disrespect to her husband.
Easy to read...fluffy summer book with everything wrapped up at the end-which I don't necessarily like because life isn't that way. But it's an enjoyable book.
She (mostly) succeeds, though not without opening herself to detractors who might take exception to the novel's lack of originality, or its odious cast of characters.The "family vacation" theme is an over-familiar one, the grist for dozens of sitcom episodes throughout the television age (most pretty bad, like one of the "Happy Days"' Cunninghams in Hawaii episodes, whence the time-worn phrase Jumping The Shark, from the Fonz' "death-defying" motorcycle stunt, originates).
Few authors can pull this off without alienating the reader (Franzen immediately comes to mind as one of the exceptions); that Ms. Straub was able to do so in a "breezy fun beach read" format is pretty remarkable.
