https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/937249.Separation_of_Power
This story picks up where the book "Transfer of Power" leaves off.
The continuing story of how Mitch Rapp and Irene Kennedy are working against internal and external corrupt people and countries seeking greater political power or promoting terrorism.
In this book Irene Kennedy has been nominated to succeed her boss who has died.
Mitch Rapp is working to find out who is behind the attempts on his life, while Iraq is on the verge of having nuclear capability with Israel's Mossad sharing this information with the U.S.The stories are gut reaching, exhilarating, and in believable, if not realistic, detail.
Vince Flynn weaves political intrigue with action in this easy to read thriller.
Whilst it could be read as a standalone novel it does help to have read the previous novel as there are plot elements that come back into this one.
In the previous novels, especially the first in this series, the word of the day is action.
I enjoyed the ending for this novel as it tied up all lose ends and left a whole new dimension to be explored in the other books in the series.
A really good read which I recommend to anyone who likes action/thriller books.If you like this try "The Mozart Conspiracy" by Scott Mariani
Although set many years ago, this story still seems relevant today. The action is non-stop, with multiple plots eventually connected ... a good read.
Flynn's American assassin, Mitch Rapp is shadowed by his boss Irene Kennedy in this installment of the series.
But that's really not the point of a Mitch Rapp novel is it?Most of the characters are cardboard cutouts, except the reader is given a bit of a glimps of Irene Kennedy's character.
I don't think this book stands well on its own, but I'm guessing that it will serve its purpose in the larger scope of the Mitch Rapp series.
Dual story line involving the confirmation of a new CIA Director andAmerica's learning of the imminent acquisition of nuclear weopons byIraq. It was just OK.
Meanwhile the president is advised that Saddam is developing nuclear weapons for imminent use and needs to find a way to destroy them without starting an international incident.There were several unnecessary repetitions throughout in descriptions of people and places, which didn't matter but it didn't feel well edited, and from the way that Flynn portrayed Anna as a selfish jealous shrew I thought she wouldn't survive - I still wonder how Mitch is going to get through the next 8 books with a wife in tow.
Apart from these minor details I enjoyed it and look forward to reading the rest of the series.
Unlike the previous two Flynn novels, while this book could conceivably be read as a stand alone novel, if you haven't read The Third Option then this book will make much less sense, as this is basically a the second of a two part series.
So I would definitely recommend that The Third Option be read before starting this book.Like The Third Option, there is much in the way of political machinations in this story, and the largest event of the novel only really develops in the last fifth of the book.
Yeah, this book gives Flynn a bad "Rapp"...whatever.
Other than that, this was pretty standard, an OK read, but not as great as say, "Transfer of Power" or "The Last Man."The characters don't fare well.
The so-called raid is such a joke that it's almost worth reading this book just to see how they pull it off.
Lucky for us Mitch can imitate this person to perfection.
Man, that Mitch.
I love how the President and Director of the CIA just stand around and give mighty Mitch the old "attaboy" routine.
Mighty Mitch.
This is a continuation of the previous novel's story, and bad guy Hank Clark is finally killed by Mitch and Donatella on the last page.
Irene is set up as new head of CIA, so cool under fire.Flynn uses the technique of switching the action back and forth between chapters, leaving you hanging in frustrating ways at the ends of chapters.
I read somewhere that the real head of CIA is requiring all employees to read the Mitch Rapp novels "to start thinking about how we can more effectively wage this war on terrorism."
After Mitch thinks about not being able to talk to Annie about his job, they have a conversation about it.
A bit much, but then they get on the jet & have the conversation again, this time in whispers.
Much of it seemed designed to show how important Mitch is & to fill in too much back story.I tried really hard to stick with this, but found myself dreading listening to it on the way home tonight, so to hell with it.
I have dozens of books I want to listen to & after Pride and Prejudice, my masochistic tendencies are all used up.
This book is excellent, assuming you have read the previous installment in the series, The Third Option, which a lot of the plot carries over from. While a lot of the Mitch Rapp books are stand-alone, these two really read as two volumes of the same story.
What a piece of garbage. Especially the way he writes women. You HATE Anna Rielly immediately. She's immature and self-absorbed. But of course it's completely reasonable that after she pitched a complete drunken foundless jealous hissy fit in Milan and storms out, and THEN sends Mitch on a huge guilt trip and punishes him emotionally for it he still wants to marry her. Right. Makes sense.
The usual thrilling action that makes this series enjoyable "mind candy". Whether it is believable or not is another question but at least it is plausible. Characters are often cartoonish and simple but these books are a great way to pass some time on the beach.
Taut, quickly drew & kept me in, well-plotted, likeable cast, light language, no gore or graphics. Read well by Armand Schultz. ©2001 Recommended.
This is the last of the Mitch Rapp novels that I had sitting on my night stand.
Flynn writes a good adventure/thriller novel but is only so so in the romance department.
A past lover, a threat of nuclear weapons in the hands of Saddam Hussein, and an enemy from within all conspire to come between Fielly and Rapp.
Until it does I'll keep reading and even if one book is a bit less than another, I'll give Mr. Flynn the opportunity to show me that that was an anomaly.
I did not read it - I did not like it.
It seems to be something of a political thriller (Flynn's genre anyway) - CIA, the President, etc.
I couldn't say it isn't good because it was recommended to me by someone who liked it.
So if you enjoy this genre, go for the book!
Everytime someone makes a gesture to point to a door, then opens it, and then closes it with a sound that is genuinly like what all doors in the world sound like when they close - I have to read about it.
Alright alright- you know I am a Flynn fan by now.
But this is by far my favorite in the series.
Mitch Rapp continues as a force to be wary of but now with this new closeness with Kennedy as she takes the reins from Stansfield..
and how the trust builds between them-- Flynn gives a glimpse of the intelligence world as well--This espionage thriller never slows down and neither does your finger as you turn the pages as fact as you can--If you are a Mitch Rapp series follower-- DO NOT MISS THIS ONE--
These books are absolutely terrific. Although this one did not have as much action as some of the other Mitch Rapp books, the double-dealing of both Mossad and the CIA was fascinating. If there is a quarter of this much nonsense behind black ops, then our elected representatives should be barred from serving our country. Vince Flynn had a very creative mind, and his books are easy enough to follow. This book is just what I needed after reading a couple of stinkers lately.
Great one!! Enjoyed this one a lot.
Intriguing, Fast Paced & A Compelling Plot!!! Excellent Read!!! Love It!!!
So, it’s probably best to look at the publish date before you read and pre-judge this one.In the great scheme of things, this is the one where Rapp and his girlfriend get serious.
You know it.Finally, there’s the back blurb saying ‘Iraq has a nuclear weapon, the CIA has Mitch Rapp,' as though that is ‘nuff said.’ Problem is, given his failings/fuck-ups of previous books, if Rapp is ‘our’ (the US always thinks it’s problems must be the World’s) best, or only, hope - then we really are in deep shit.The bad.There’s still no indication of why the ten years gap in books 2 and 3.
The narrator grated on my nerves.
He was too interested in pausing and trying to make the simplest scenes suspenseful.
Spent a lot of time in the multiple bad guys heads.
Spent quite a bit a time on Anna.
My two least favorite things to do.
;)The action is still good.
Fight scenes are well written.
Very enjoyable.
I love Donatella, too.
She's an assassin.
She and Mitch work well together.
The story is a continuation from book 4.
It's an interesting twist on the series, carrying a major plot thread to the next book.
I'm looking forward to the next book.
I wasn't satisfied with Ken Kliban's narration the first time and I'm still of the same mind now.
-----------------------------------------------REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK; NOVEMBER 13, 2015Narrator: Ken KlibanAnna needs to die.Anna should never have made it to this book.Anna had better die in the next book.If not for the Anna parts, I could have given this book 4 stars but I'm hoping this is the worst of the Mitch Rapp series because I couldn't survive reading/listening another Rapp book that has him tangling with that dumb cow of a woman.Despite some lengthy political history lessons and discussions, I enjoyed this sequel to Transfer of Power.
In the first book it states, Mr. President you are about to be brought in on a secret that only 3 people in the world know.
Sure there is another prequel I haven't read yet, but I am probably going to get fed up with this series if the next book goes how I imagine.Book 1 - Subplot bad guys.
Saddam (who is also still a bad guy in book 1) and oh yeah...
And while we don't agree with them, we have to admit that things happen and the books are truly intense because the bad guys, have this quality.)2.
This was not my favorite of the Mitch Rapp series that I've read so far.
The same with Irene Kennedy, Marcus Dumond, etc., etc.Still this was a good book and I enjoyed reading it if for no other reason than it tied up the loose ends of the events from The Third Option.After reading five straight political/military thrillers I think I'm going to take a break from the genre for the moment, but I do want to finish out the series.
They are really good books and I enjoy them immensely!
A disappointing effort by Vince Flynn.
The writing appeared to be Flynn channeling Tom Clancy - all kinds of useless information on weapons and helicopters and planes, etc.The story also tried to show Mitch Rapp's softer side as he struggled with his love of Anne Rielly (not misspelled) and its conflict with his need to be a super hero.I kept waiting for the real Mitch Rapp to appear but he only showed up rarely and in short bursts.
I don't read Flynn's books to open my eyes to the problems of making a commitment in a relationship.
Somehow I missed this Vince Flynn. I liked it but not my favorite of his books. Maybe because it ws too real and timely.
Separation of Power is Vince Flynn's third Mitch Rapp thriller and continues the story of the CIA's most dangerous assassin.
Throw in heated confirmation hearings for a new CIA director, a sinister but hidden power play and a handful of nukes in the hands of a madman and you've got yourself a good time in the works.As I was reading Separation of Power, I couldn't help but think this must be what romance novels for men are like.
Thomas Stansfield is no longer the CIA director and Dr. Irene Kennedy is now ready to take over in t
Absolutely breath taking and a fantastic pages turner! I had difficulties putting it down a little and now I am anxious to find out what will happen with Mitch Rapp! Thanks to the author for sharing his great talent for us!
