https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29034.Twelve_Angry_Men
أين تكمن الحقيقةوكيف لنا أن نهتدي لليقين..؟كيف يمكننا إصدار أحكامنا المعلبة بكل أريحيةمن أين يأتي كل
"Oh. Well...I just think he's guilty. I thought it was obvious." This is a passionate play about twelve jurors who must decide whether a boy who's charged with premeditated homicide of his father, is guilty or not. Only one member of the jury believes there's a reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the accused, and forces the other jurors to examine the evidence more thoroughly. The fierce argument that follows is a powerful warning against rash judgment and condemnation based on ignorance, prejud
"Oh. Well...I just think he's guilty.
I thought it was obvious."
This is a passionate play about twelve jurors who must decide whether a boy who's charged with premeditated homicide of his father, is guilty or not.
Only one member of the jury believes there's a reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the accused, and forces the other jurors to examine the evidence more thoroughly.
The fierce argument that follows is a powerful warning against rash judgment and condemnation based on ignorance, prejudice or casualness and a reminder of how one courageous person can make a difference by confronting other people's opinions.
You would think they would've forced us to watch Twelve Angry Men in law school, but they didn't.
After reading the play and watching the movie a few weeks ago, I feel like every American should have to read Twelve Angry Men. The play centers on a jury deliberation.
During several heated hours (literally and figuratively), twelve men discuss whether the verdict they come to will exonerate a young man for the murder of his father, or condemn him to a death sentence that the judge explained he had no qualms about ordering, should the verdict be guilty.
4.75*I have commited a book crime. I watched the movie adaptation first and... *gasps* enjoyed the ending of the movie better. Still an incredible play that I would recommend anyone to read!!
Con una deliberación de 11 de 12 votos que lo sentencian como culpable, el jurado 8, el único que no está seguro de su culpabilidad, es la única oportunidad con la que cuenta para salvarse.La historia se desarrolla presentando en que se fundamentan estas dudas, la seriedad con que se debe tomar estas resoluciones y la ligereza con la que muchas veces son consideradas, además de los prejuicios y discriminación presentes al ver los hechos.
Una historia que esta tremendamente bien creada y a la que vale muchísimo la pena darle una oportunidad.
Βαθμολογία: 9/10Χθες το βράδυ είδα για πρώτη φορά την ταινία "12 Angry Men" του μεγάλου και τρανού Sidney Lumet και έπαθα την πλάκα μου, τόσο από το σενάριο και την όλη εξέλιξη της πλοκής, όσο και από τις ερμηνείες, τη σκηνοθεσία και τις διάφορες κοινωνιολογικές προεκτάσεις της υπόθεσης.
Οπωσδήποτε, τόσο το θεατρικό σενάριο όσο φυσικά και η ομότιτλη ταινία, είναι από τα πια δυνατά και ενδιαφέροντα δικαστικά δράματα που μπορεί να διαβάσει και να δει κανείς, αντίστοιχα.
1. Αυτή την εποχή υπάρχει και θεατρική παράσταση στο θέατρο Αλκμήνη (τίτλος: "Οι 12 ένορκοι"), για την οποία έχω ακούσει πολύ καλά λόγια, τόσο για τις ερμηνείες όσο και για τη σκηνοθεσία και την προσαρμογή του σεναρίου.
Recently I've been reading several plays and short stories.
So I shall promptly go over what makes Twelve Angry Men different.The play itself covers the case of an apparently guilty boy claimed to have stabbed his father.
Rose uses his play to analyse human prejudices effectively and in a highly intriguing manner.
However the manner in which Rose attempts to tackle an intriguing and difficult subject matter makes this text worth both a read and a viewing as a film (I recommend the Henry Fonda version rather than any other).So now comes to the all important question: why should you read this play?
در آغاز نمایشنامه دوازده مرد خشمگین اثر رجینالد رز، قاضی بیان می کند: «اکنون این وظیفه شما است که در جدا کردن واقعیات از خیال بکوشید». موضوع مربوط به سرنوشت پسری شانزده ساله است که به خاطر قتل پدرش در دادگاه است. با آغاز بحث، مسائل و اختلافات زیادی در میان دوازده داور هیئت منصفه سر میگیرد که تجربیات مختلف، پیشزمینه های متفاوتشان در زندگی و همچنین روایت های متفاوتی که از زندگی دارند، بر شدت این تنش ها می افزاید. بی ارتباط نیست که رز در این نمایشنامه دوران سالهای ۱۹۵۰ دوره ای از مهاجرت ها و تفکیک
در داور هشتم (او تنها کسی است که در رأی اولش به گناه کار نبودن پسرک رأی می دهد، او از شیوه‌ی پیش روی دادگاهی ناراضی است و می خواهد که شواهد دقیق‌تر مورد بحث قرار گیرند) و دیگر داورانی که به هیئت منصفه ملحق می شوند، دیدگاهی نسبت به عدالت می‌بینیم که در راستای کمک به متهم قرار دارد و می‌خواهند که شرایطی فراهم شود تا قضاوت عادلانه ای صورت گیرد.
“Facts may be coloured by the personalities of the people who present them.”
I have yet to meet one person that did not like nor appreciate the importance of that film.“There were eleven votes for “guilty.” It’s not easy for me to raise my hand and send a boy off to die without talking about it first.”  This short play follows a jury, as they try to pass a verdict on a homicide case.
Juror 8 believes there is reasonable doubt while all the other men have ridiculous reasons to simply pass the guilty verdict, from needing to get to a baseball game, to racism, to the relationship between a juror and his own son.
Honestly, this should be a compulsory read or watch for everyone in school Facts may be coloured by the personalities of the people who present them This is basically about 12 jurors who have to decide if a guy is guilty of committing murder, and if he's found guilty, he would die!
If everyone was like Juror 8 who stopped to actually think critically about the case, the world would be a better place!
Back then, I thought that Juror 3 was a mean man, almost evil, and that he just wanted the defendant to die to make himself feel powerful.
I love Juror 8 for being able, and more importantly, WILLING to really take the responsibility of someone's life and death seriously and think about it with an open mind.
I think it's that way in all things, though.
The thing I love about this book is that the jurors do grow and get past it...
I made some comments about this play in my review of The Affair As an afterthought, I think it is worth mentioning something about the maleness of both.
Twelve Angry Men is just that.
But The Affair has a strong female presence.
I guess Twelve Angry Men had to be called that.
Please don't ban me from your university.Still, I don't think I really noticed the maleness of Twelve Angry Men despite the way it was blatantly put forward to me in the title before I'd even bought the tickets, until I watched Amy Schumer's take on it.
The twelve angry men in this play are members of a jury deliberating during a homicide trial.
Eleven jurors are ready to make a snap decision of guilty and head home, but one dissenting juror has a reasonable doubt.
The jurors' prejudices and personal experiences influence their decisions of whether the man is guilty.
It's a very powerful play when seen on stage.
The jurors are not named, but play the parts juror #1, #2, etc, so it's more difficult to think of them as distinct personalities.
So I would recommend seeing this play on stage or watching the movie.
Excellent book and it was an excellent movie as well! A definite must read!
Aunque aparentemente simple, esta corta obra es una interesante y aguda reflexión acerca de la percepción de la inocencia, la fiabilidad del sistema judicial y el papel de los prejuicios humanos en ambos.Más que un caso criminal, es un estudio humano y un recordatorio --de eso de que siempre creemos imposible: una sola persona sí puede hacer la diferencia.
no doubt a typical example of what a muthafakking best of the best muthafakkers isstill be in one century for sure
When personal issues aren't supposed to be a part of the judicial system, the reader sees that they can clearly play a role whether the juror knows it or not.I loved this text not only because of it's content in relation to prejudgment of others, but also because it is such a study of human relationships.
Although 11 of the jurors think that they are convinced, it only takes one to question the evidence and present a sound argument to reaveal to the others that maybe they aren't so sure.
I also think that students' personal experiences will play into their interpretation because the text itself is so personal.
WOW! What a play! This was amazing stuff. Though you can sense it is getting up there in years, it doesn't seem nearly as dated as many of the things of its era. I had heard of this my whole life but never really known much about it. It didn't take long to realize that I was dealing with a major work of incredible power. Heavily recommended.
An important play - today more than ever. "A powerful warning against rash judgment and condemnation based on ignorance, prejudice or casualness and a reminder of how one courageous person can make a difference by confronting other people's opinions."  (from Greta's review)  In the end we know as much as the jury which drives me crazy but is brilliant.Around the Year Challenge 2018: A legal thriller.
"It takes a great deal of courage to stand alone"When I like a book, I can give it 5 stars without a single word, but this one is different.What can I call it? it's "us" the people we meet every day and how they think, act and feel.You may see them act as if they know the whole truth about anything. They may feel they're unwanted or unimportant.And they get excited sometimes and they want to take revenge on a wrong person.But at the end, they admit their guilt.
Amazing.  Never having seen the play, I picked this up as a "Book You Can Read in a Day" and read it in a little over an hour. There is so much packed into so few words. I loved it.
Ladies and GentlemenI present to you the absolute best showcase of human psychology.Set in probably the 50-60’sA murder has taken place.
We do not see the court proceedings but are told various information as we go through the play.The focal point is on the twelve jurors (who are named only as such) and how they go about deciding their verdict.
Not Guilty mean more trials.Reginald Rose has done a fantastic job in showing two things.
The first is on the psychology of the human mind.
Through these twelve jurors we see all aspects of humanity.
The judgemental, the racists, the haters, the bullies, the all-talk-no-shows, the timid, the cowards, the easily insulted, the voice of reason, etc.
This is a very short book.
In fact, I think this isn't a book.
But this one wasn't disappointing like Harry Potter 8, with a dragging story and almost no point of dialog or movement, this one cut straight to the point.
The fact that the author could make all the evidence to convict the boy icebergs is incredible.
On first sight you think the boy is definitely a murderer, but dig deeper and you realize, there's a lot more to the case than you think.
Hey, if you like the book, check it out yourself.
And I definitely recommend using one of your 5 checkouts for this book.
Interesting and thoughtful read!
Nota mental # 1: Cuando veas anunciada una obra de teatro con doce actores muy conocidos y de entre ellos por lo menos seis están considerados ‘primeros actores’, tienes que hacer un mínimo esfuerzo por ir a verla. Si esta obra se llama ‘Doce hombres en pugna’, siempre puedes por recurrir a una bonita adaptación en audiolibro, como en mi caso. Calidad de la representación aparte (muy buena, con Dan Castellaneta [AKA Homero Simpson en inglés] y Héctor Elizondo), la obra es una de aquellas piezas
Nota mental # 1: Cuando veas anunciada una obra de teatro con doce actores muy conocidos y de entre ellos por lo menos seis están considerados ‘primeros actores’, tienes que hacer un mínimo esfuerzo por ir a verla.
En este caso, se trata de una delirante lucha de un hombre contra la avasalladora opinión de sus compañeros jurados en un caso de asesinato que parece cien por ciento claro.
Pero poco a poco van surgiendo dudas y dudas, a medida que las personalidades de cada uno de los doce jurados chocan unas con otras y amenazan incluso con llegar a las patadas.
Interesting.I read this play as I'm considering taking part in the production and I really enjoyed it.
You have juror 8, who stood against all the others, did not give in to peer pressure and stood his ground.
On the other hand of the spectrum, we have juror 3, a bitter, stubborn and biased man.
The play has a very strong message.
It's so easy to condemn and judge someone from the safety of our comfortable jury rooms/homes/offices.
If society condemns something, then why should we fight it?
Most of the jurors in the room where not sure about guilty.
Review posted on BookLikes:http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...
That story line is only secondary to the actual focus of the play, which is that each juror has his own story that, although never said outright, guides their opinions of the accused and their interactions with the other jurors.
Although not necessarily suspenseful, it does hold your attention based on the frequent and drastic changes of opinion and emotion of the jurors.
Also, by not having their names ever said, the characters reveal themselves through their characters, and I found myself thinking of them as 'the arrogant one', or 'the nervous one', which helped make understanding the person a lot easier.
Somehow this play made a bigger impression on me when I read it last, more than two decades ago. Not sure if the play doesn't age well, or that I've aged too well! :-) Still a thought provoking examination of all the biases we bring when rushing to judgment about others. Suggests that we reflect on the experiences that have shaped our perspectives and hold the same lens to ourselves that we do to others. Worth a read, its a fairly quick one..
