https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18652002-the-bees
The Bees is a powerful tale of what life might look like to a hive member.
And to top it off we are led through this journey by a character who, while far from perfect, is a very good egg, or was.Bee life cycle Of course Flora 717 might not have been considered a wonderful egg to those around her.
We get to see many aspects of hive life through Flora’s five eyes, but also through her six feet, which are able to interpret vibrations in the floor, and her antennae, which she uses to sense scents and for more direct communication with other bees.
But the bees closest to the Queen have other ideas...and soon Flora will have to use her wit and skill to make her own way in the hive...and hide her secrets from those who would try to harm her.It probably comes as no surprise that I loved this book!!
R-E-S-P-E-C-T!THE BEES did remind me of a cross between Watership Down with bees and The Handmaids Tale...and although it may sound strange- as I was reading it- Flora sort of reminded me of one of my most beloved protagonists- Amber St. Clair- from another one of my favorite books- Forever Amber.
While The Bees is a beautifully written book, with scenes that are quite lovely in their composition, I felt the author lacked conviction and an overall commitment to just what kind of story she was telling.
If you have a personal curiosity of bees, the detailed portrait the author offers here of hive life may indeed appeal to you.
She has done her research, and there is definitely poetry contained in some of the pages of this book and in scenes that deal with the harsh realities of the natural world and the strict laws of bee existence.
However, this is not the case for the entire world.Even in the 21st Century, it's clear that while there are many countries enjoying freedom to express your opinion, still there are several ones where this is only a wild dream.That's why that stories like The Bees is still relevant and always is necessary to take on again the topic."Flora 717", the main character, a bee, due her birth cast, she is a member of the lowest cast in the entire hive, the Sanitation Bees, where even the skill of speak is negated by biology.
And what would happen when you are living in a society, in this hive, where the Queen is a holy being and even you are unable to think different?The Bees is a powerful and dark tale showing the dangers when a government fusions state and religion in one single concept.
Thoroughly disappointed with this book.
I was recommended this by a Waterstone's employee - and the story looked to be unique and captivating.
Sadly, within a few pages, I realised that Laline Paull's writing lacked clarity, and hardly anything about the hive in which the book was set was easy to envision.I also agree with other critics of this book - this is not merely about bees, but seems to be a poor metaphor of humanity.
The bees have many kins, clearly trying to represent the classes within our society, and a religion - if you are going to write a book about humanity, USE HUMANS.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/The best thing to come out of reading this book is finding the following: The Bees is really about a beehive – where the bees have been anthropomorphized and talk and shit. Amazing that that bit of info seems to be a spoiler for some. Heck, that was the whole reason I wanted to read it - an unusual premise is a quick sell for me. What wasn’t a quick sell? The story of Flora 717 (a/k/a the horniest bee in the hive) and her unyielding de
It reminded me a bit of Agnes of God, which I know is completely whack-a-doo and more than a little on the creepy side, but the entire hive atmosphere seemed very much like a nunnery to me – especially the  “Accept, Obey and Serve” mantra all the female bees must follow.Before I get inundated with the “I didn’t get it” or “maybe I’m too stupid to be reading a literary wonder such as this” comments, I’m going to tell you to save your breath.
There’s a good chance that I just didn’t get it, and I probably am too stupid for books like this.
I felt like I was supposed to be drawing parallels deeper than "Hey, those bees fail to adjust their social structures in the face of adversity, just like us!"Ultimately stupid complaint: I was continually confused by seemingly fluctuating level of anthropomorphism.
Often it seemed that these were simply normal bees with their experiences translated to human terms -- a bee in flight thinks about her engines and fuel levels.
But then sometimes things got more human -- pollen bread is produced in the patisserie, cleaning bees have brooms and dustpans.
Maybe if I knew more about bee behavior I would have grasped it all better.
Synchronicity on honey turns out to give an insanely great read.
Watership Down crossed with 1984, Forrest Gump, The Red Book and the Memoirs of a Geisha.
Q: “Accept, Obey, and Serve.”Q: “Deformity is evil.
Deformity is not permitted.” (c)Q: ...kindly recall that variation is not the same as deformity.
(с)Q: “You danced well.
You have served your hive.” Lily 500 smiled at Flora.
Praise end your days.Praise end your days, Flora thought back to her, and the words were sweet.Q: She wrapped herself in the rich perfume of the forest floor and watched until the last bee flew into the tree.
If you had told me last year that I would fall head over heels in love with a dystopian novel about bees, I would have said you were off your rocker, but gosh darn it, that’s exactly what happened!
I spent a lovely couple weeks getting caught up in the amazingly intricate world of honey bees, and I loved every second of it!
The characters (who are all bees & other insects) are astonishingly complex and the audiobook version captures the author’s beautiful writing style perfectly.
I enjoyed The Bees.
Flora 717 is a bad girl.
She's born different than the rest of the Floras.
She's bigger, darker, smarter and more talented than the rest of her clan, and this is dangerous.
She even breeds and everybody knows only the Queen may breed.This is an odd little book that fascinated me with a bunch of bee facts, and it was very interesting...Then I came across this video that I watched more than a few times and it brought this book to mind.
It holds pretty much all you need to know about bees in a stunning fashion.
DNF on page 121/304 39% (22/06/14 to 23/06/14)There are no spoiler tags, so read at your own peril!1.5 “Oh, spare me- he was just a great flying wad of sperm.” stars.Flora 717 is a sanitation bee, born to clean, born to serve.
Which- if the idea is true, is an interesting fact, but I don't think it's true because the whole book is a clusterfuck.The whole thing seems like some weird cult, it's so freaking bizarre‘Accept, Obey and Serve.’ The words blurted out of Flora’s mouth unbidden.Accept, Obey and Serve, huh?I was expecting a few differences from real bees, but it was nothing like bees!
If you are a fan of Watership Down you will most likely enjoy this remarkable and highly imaginative story of the life of bees as they Accept, Obey, and Serve their Queen. With communication through dance in the hive and courage and strength, Flora 717 overcomes the challenging forces of rain, wasps, crows and the dreaded "visitation" that threaten her existence.....and forbidden secret.While I did enjoy this interesting and informative story (with memorable prologue and epilogue) it didn't blow me away like WD, but was quite an entertaining read nonetheless.
Watership Down is one of my favorite novels, and is a truly beautiful story which resists genre classification and escapes all labels; it can and is read both by adults and children, who derive from it equal amounts of pleasure.
We follow Flora pretty much because we have no other choice - there is no explanation as of why she is unique among other bees, and she's written as a special bee only because she's the protagonist.Watership Down succeeded in creating animal characters which didn't read as humans with rabbit ears - something that The Bees struggles with.
You are looking for a book with an original dystopian society (not another Hunger Games/Divergent copycat)The Bees  is a surprisingly 1.
Seriously, the whole book is written from the perspective of a worker bee, trying to fit in a strict, fanatic society, survive the calamities that befall her hive and guard her ultimate secret - (view spoiler)[ her ability to lay eggs.
(hide spoiler)]I went into this book without knowing much about this particular insect and its way of life, but by the 60%, I had the strong, unbearable urge to watch Bee documentaries!
There is a lot of action and fights in this book (makes you feel sorry for the real bees), yet, the ending was also surprisingly emotional.
A lowly sanitation worker bee flies to new heights as we follow a year in the life of a beehive. Everything for the hive, the bees are attuned to each other, chanting, humming and thrumming. Living by the rigid hive rules of Accept, Obey, Serve, even when it hurts. The Hive Mind. The Myriad, consisting of all those who would hurt bees - spiders, wasps, crows. The horror of too much rain, or smoke accompanied by thievery. Very different, I found it to be exceptional.
Males are occasional visitors, arriving as drones in a cloud of Henry VIII bawdy revelry, flirting with bee wenches, getting sloppy-drunk and generally making a mess of things with spilled bodily fluids.Flora 717, a preternaturally gifted sanitation bee, is our guide into the Hive Mind.
Her gifts are noticed by a Sage priestess and Flora advances through the ranks of the hive until she becomes a forager, one of the true worker bees who leave the hive in search of nectar and pollen to feed her sisters.
Flora 717’s forays into the world beyond the hive are great fun.
This is an excellent choice for book groups.An added note from a readers' advisory POV: One of our more challenging questions comes from patrons who want a novel that will take them out of their nonfiction rut, something that helps them learn something new, and this book works well for those kinds of requests (we call them "nonfiction novels").
It also incorporates all of the appeal factors that work for just about anyone looking for a good book: stunning setting, fabulous characters (even if they are bees), intriguing story, and great writing.
It's a "honey" of a book.
Accept * Obey * ServeAuthor Laline Paull has taken the world of the Honey Bee and turned it into a top notch scifi-fantasy novel. As a lover of dystopian stories this tale appealed quite strongly too me. Imagine a society run entirely by women. Paull brilliantly tells the story of Flora 717 a female worker bee born into the lowest caste of her society a sanitation cleaner, but something is different about Flora. She will prove to the rest of the hive her courage and resolve to save her people
Accept * Obey * ServeAuthor Laline Paull has taken the world of the Honey Bee and turned it into a top notch scifi-fantasy novel.
As a lover of dystopian stories this tale appealed quite strongly too me.
Imagine a society run entirely by women.
Paull brilliantly tells the story of Flora 717 a female worker bee born into the lowest caste of her society a sanitation cleaner, but something is different about Flora.
She will prove to the rest of the hive her courage and resolve to save her people.
The Bees is a fantastic blend of nature and fantasy.
Did you ever wonder what a bee sees or what she thinks as she goes about her daily life?Flora has been blown off course on her way home from a foraging run.
The crow cannot see where she is, but has taken up a watch for her on a branch near where she is hiding.
The sense of enclosure was some comfort, and with the crow sleeping a few branches above her, Flora settled herself to watch the darkening sky and wait for death.The beech leaves surged and shimmered in the wind.
Serve.Flora 717 is born to the lowliest class of bees in the hive-- the sanitation bee.
Sanitation bees keep to themselves and don't talk, skirting around the edges of the hive as they clear away the messes left behind by superior bees.
Instead of being killed, Flora is allowed to take care of new bees in the nursery and then fly out to forage-- unthinkable for her class.
There's too much the author seems to want to teach us readers a special lesson about, and it takes away from the enjoyment of the book.
Even though the author was good at giving out information in regards to bees and how they live, she completely failed to capture any of this marvel and wonder, and make it into a decent, engaging story.
Hence the lack of bonding with the characters, I found the story dragged in many parts.The book had some interesting parts about bees, and the author obviously did her research.
If you are looking for an interesting read about bees, but you are prepared not to be totally engaged with the story, then this might be the book for you.
It ended up feeling like Paull wrote Flora as special so that we as readers could visit so many different parts of the hive and experience so many different parts of bee life, which would have been impossible to do through the eyes of just one bee under normal conditions (as implied by the word ‘caste,’ bee society is strictly compartmentalized).Okay, so this is where my mind starts to do whirligigs, because all the while Flora is having her mystical magical Mary-Sue* journey through the beehive, being stuff she’s not supposed to be (and being the best at whatever thing of the moment) and meeting the queen and reading forbidden books and foraging and laying forbidden eggs all over the place, you get the idea that we’re mean to to think Flora is righteous for doing all of these transgressive things (an idea affirmed by the ending).
If you are looking for a read that will surprise you, then The Bees is the book that you need to pick up!
The premise of the story told from the perspective of a bee was so interesting and most of the time, enjoyable to read.
She struggles to hide her inner feelings, as she and her bee sisters pledge an oath of alliance to accept, obey and serve.
This is truly a life or death kind of read as Flora 717 experiences so much with a range of feelings.
Towards the end, she becomes rather passionate and that was refreshing to read.
There is a workmanlike overarching plot, some decent character development, and a spectacularly WEIRD and rushed ending, but the main thrust of the novel is seeing the world through the eyes of the bees, getting a handle on how the hive mind works and encountering all of the dangers of the modern world which are causing bee numbers to decline.
Not for reasons of bee welfare (and I say that as a vegetarian and someone interested in animal welfare).The fact is, I don’t care if bees are oppressed by a stifling social system in which the common good is championed over the freedom of the individual.
The foundation of the book centers around the Hive Mind.
The author takes liberties in the personalization of the bees and proposing feelings such as love, anger, control, power, etc.
Her devotion to her Queen interfering with her will for the hive to survive.
I have seen the lengths bees go to for the love of their Queen.
Fantastic book and I will be recommending it to my beekeeper friends.
Please don't use this book as a source for beekeeping :) Use it for your personal enjoyment as the terrific work of fiction that it is.
I know that spiders are necessary in the Circle of Life and I leave them alone unless they come into my home, but they still bother me.One part that I was especially fond of was the tying together of the first and last chapters, using the family of the home in whose yard the bee hive sits.
My parents died young and in many ways, I would love to have this problem to cope with—instead my sisters and I dealt with possessions and sold the family farm house almost 20 years ago.I’m not sure what kind of staying power The Bees will have over the long term.
Maybe 4-1/2 stars. This was a really amazing, very different book. I know I keep promising reviews to come and then falling behind on actually posting them :-(, but I do need to organize my thoughts about this. The short review is: This is a pretty unique story, super vivid and imaginative. If you want to read something highly unusual and original, give this a try. I think this is going to stick with me for a long time.
Regal and glowing, like the golden honey at it's center.
She is the Holy Mother and her blinding love incites bliss and rapture among her obedient disciples.
When she shrouds them in her love they become eager to work, sacrificing everything to her beauty and the Hive Mind.
Except, maybe it's not exactly like that for all of them.
She may be worth keeping...You might expect a story told from the perspective of a honey bee to be cute or gimmicky but I assure you, it's neither.
I can't predict that anyone would love it as much as I did.
3.5 starsEvidently, bees are fascinating creatures, they really are! Who knew? And as far as their representation in this "dystopia," it is mostly factual. But although I enjoyed learning about bees, I am not sure I actually cared to read a fictional novel about them (too often my mind wondered during all the nectar gathering scenes). Maybe I needed the same story told, with the same dystopian setting, only with human characters and slightly adjusted? Anyway, it's definitely worth checking out.
