https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2761626-the-brass-verdict
It's Connelly's eighteenth book and is significant because it is the first to feature both his long-time L.A. homicide detective, Harry Bosch, and the defense lawyer, Mickey Haller.
Most of Vincent's case notes have disappeared, along with his computer, and Mickey has no idea how Vincent planned to structure the executive's defense.Logically, Haller wants to file a motion to delay the trial so that he can get up to speed and plan a defense.
Bosch suspects that there might be information in Vincent's files suggesting who might have a motive to kill him, but Haller insists on protecting the confidentiality of the clients he has just inherited.
Michael Connelly has in his 2008 novel The Brass Verdict the opportunity to bring two of his most compelling characters together into one plot – and he rises to the occasion, delivering a solid and very entertaining crime mystery.Connelly’s benchmark detective Harry Bosch is joined by his motion picture legal thriller protagonist Mickey Haller in a suspenseful thriller sure to please fans.Everybody lies.This is the universal truth that Haller sets out as the book begins and this theme of deception and human frailty is returned to again and again.Mickey Haller has been away from law for a year.
I am reading my way steadily through the Harry Bosch series and decided I would include this book which crosses over with the Mickey Haller series.I am not usually a fan of court cases but this one was pretty good and, of course, it helped that Harry Bosch was around to provide extra interest!
Mickey Haller is an okay character but not quite up to Harry's standard.
Having said that however Haller does very well in the court room.
A very entertaining read. The breezy, cynical voice of Michael Connelly's lawyer Mickey Haller produces something much different--and much lighter in tone--than the Harry Bosch books, but it is something just as exciting and engrossing. There's a bonus here as well: Bosh appears as a minor, but important character.
Primarily, this is a Mickey Haller story (#14 - The Lincoln Lawyer) & is told by him, but Harry Bosch is a major character.
There is a reference to Cassie Black (#09 - Void Moon) & Mickey Haller's father that was fantastic.
It's a police procedural told from the defense bench as Mickey tries to keep his client out of jail.
Included is a high profile murder case involving a Hollywood studio head who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover, and it comes with some pretty impressive fees.
And for the first time, Mickey and Harry Bosch cross paths as he's the lead detective assigned to investigate the attorney's death.I really enjoyed this story as it had so many elements to sink your teeth into.
There's Mickey and his personal issues, the process associated with assuming another attorney's clients, the studio head's trial and, finally, Bosch and Mickey.
I've looked forward to Mickey and Harry finally interacting and it didn't disappoint.
This is the 4th mystery/thriller I have started in the last several days. It is the only one I will finish. The others, all by authors well known who I will not name, were a mishmash of confusing scenes, unnecessary filler (the price of having to produce a book every year?), and reader-unfriendly prose. Connelly, who crafts just as complicated a plot, does so without confusion and without extra "stuff." He is a pleasure to read.The rest was as good as the beginning. It is interesting to see how Connelly brings his two series characters together in this book.
When he's called into a judge's chambers and told that he has inherited a dead lawyer's practice, just like that Haller is back in the saddle again.So "The Brass Verdict" focuses on Mickey doing what he can for his new clients and finding out that he might have a huge franchise case involving a Hollywood movie producer whose standing accused of murdering his wife and her lover.Just like in "The Lincoln Lawyer" not all is as it appears and it takes a lot of twists and turns to find out who's truly innocent in this one.We also get an appearance by another one of Michael Connelly's characters Harry Bosch.
4 stars.🇺🇸
Not Matthew McConaughey, but the original Mickey Haller created by Michael Connelly.
Where is this all going?Haller is handed some cases when his friend is murdered.
Has Mickey climbed back on the wagon sufficiently to represent a rich client in L.A.'s murder of the decade?
Bosch hangs around and both scares and annoys Haller as the case marches ahead.This may really be a 3 star effort from Connelly but I loved both the audiobook narration and the meticulous description of courtroom tactics and backroom strategy for the criminal defense.
He gets to do so in a big way, when a fellow lawyer is killed and leaves his practice to Haller.
The only problem is his old friend was killed by an unknown attacker and had his laptop stolen.As Haller begins to work on the case, he makes one alarming discovery after another.
For a while, Haller can't figure out why but slowly begins to connect the pieces and find out the bigger picture.Connelly is no stranger to creating good mysteries with an element of suspense to keep the pages turning.
This one is fun because it brings Harry Bosch (our old fave) and Mickey Haller (from The Lincoln Lawyer) together in the same book.
This is mostly a lawyer story, not so much a police procedural.I think the basic storyline is covered well enough by other reviews, but I will mention that if you read this book, be sure to pay attention to little details and seemingly unimportant characters as you're reading.
As things fall into place in the story's conclusion, some of these little things become important and it might be hard to follow if you've forgotten the details.
There's an especially good Easter egg in this book.
mp3 workaday.'The truth is short, a lie long.'Probably just me but after 2 hours I still have no interest at all - goes like that sometimes doesn't it!ETA - having trawled back through, it seems that I mark courtroom dramas rather low, so it's probably a genre I should steer clear of.
Connelly has some of the best quotes in his books."There is nothing you can do about the past except keep it there." A quote from Mickey Haller when discussing his prior addiction to OxyContin.This was a fantastic read!
Jerry Vincent had Mickey appointed to take over his practice if anything was to happen to him.
Harry is in charge of the Vincent murder and he thinks Haller knows more than he does.I thought Connelly was great at writing from the prospective of a LA homicide detective.
He does an equally great job writing as a defence attorney.I can't wait to see what Connelly does next!
She informs him that his friend, Defense Attorney Jerry Vincent, was found murdered.
Mickey has just inherited all of Vincent's active cases, including the high profile defense of Hollywood Producer Walter Elliot, who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover.
Detective Harry Bosch contacts Mickey to talk about Vincent's cases.
He believes there is something in one of those cases that could explain Vincent's murder.
He is also worried that Mickey may be the next target.This book is a nice combination of two murder mysteries.
We also have Harry Bosch investigating the death of Jerry Vincent.
Did it have something to do with the Walter Elliot case?
From the original price of Php649.00, The Brass Verdict was only sold for Php100.00 only!
haha!)The Brass Verdict is the 19th novel by American author Michael Connelly.
Michael Connelly is a good writer, he uses uncomplicated words and describes a crime scene & court room dramas effectively.
I recently learned that his recent works have been translated into 36 languages and have garnered him a lot of awards too (including this novel which won the 2009 "Best Novel" award).
hoho.The story of The Brass Verdict spans around the detective works of an attorney named Mickey Haller and a LAPD detective, Harry Bosch.
I found this story kept me guessing. It was taking different twists and turns, then just when you think you have it all figured out, it goes a different way. There is an interesting reveal near the end of the story and I really enjoyed that the title, "The Brass Verdict", has meaning in the legal community! 7 out of 10.
"The Brass Verdict" was released in 2008, but I only recently got around to reading The Lincoln Lawyer Series.
This is the second book in the series and while I think it's a good read, the story didn't captivate me as much as the first book's action-packed plot.We come to find Mickey Haller acclimating back into his role as lawyer after a protracted struggle with alcohol and drug addiction, followed by a lengthy stay in rehab.
Okay, that's just crazy.Good news, though; Mickey's no dummy and these incredible requests are major red flags to our protagonist who now has the dual task to defend his client while investigating the death of his friend and colleague, knowing he is probably in the line of fire.
Michael Connelly has done it again The Brass Verdict is a very good read by putting Harry Bosch with Mickey Haller creates a good mix was a real page turner & very exciting from start to finish as usual never picked the ending
Not keen at all on Haller. He has so little integrity. Bosch, however, is a man on a mission of truth and justice, a super-man.
For example, Haller brings up injuries that he sustained in The Lincoln Lawyer because they have an effect (physically and psychologically) on how he pursues the mysteries in this book, but Connelly doesn't slip up and reveal who gave him the injuries, so a reader who tries this book and likes the characters can go back and enjoy the earlier story.
Also, Connelly uses this book to connect his two most popular characters (Mickey Haller and Harry Bosch), and I didn't feel like I had missed out by my lack of familiarity with Bosch.
The chemistry between two of his great characters -- defense lawyer Haller and LAPD homicide detective Harry Bosch -- is terrific as they spar, spin, speculate, bait and barter for information to solve a case involving a wealthy Hollywood movie mogul, charged with murdering his wife and her lover.
Bosch seems top of his game and lends the counterpoint to whether or how justice will be achieved.
I enjoyed all the rich information about jury selection and the courtroom maneuvers which built suspense and involved critical plot details.
I love Harry Bosch, and I hated how he was portrayed in this book. He was a side character in this one, so I didn't expect to like it as well, but I kept getting bored. Kind of meh, but I love Connelly, so I'll give it a pass.Lori AndersonLori Anderson:The Store Lori Anderson:The Blog Twitter
Didn’t have high expectations for this as it’s very much a Mickey Haller book with just a sprinkling of Bosch and I was pretty disappointed in”The Lincoln Lawyer”.However it ended up being possibly my favourite Connelly book so far and I absolutely flew through it and always wanted to pick it up again. Much more into the Mickey Haller character now as he was cleverly developed here - and I absolutely loved the scenes where he and Bosch interacted.
In this book author Michael Connelly proves that he has more on his finger tips than just Harry Bosch.
But this case proves to be a nightmare and Mike soon finds himself up to his neck in it.
This is where Harry Bosch enters the plot.Whilst under prepared to take on this case Mike soon show that he is no idiot when it comes to courtroom smoke and mirror tactics.The book moves along at a fare pace and the end is a big surprise in more ways than one.
Two-haiku review:Lawyer gets murderedMickey inherits casesIncluding big oneMickey's very realFaults, failings and doubts like usExcellent story
Intrigued with the deep, ongoing characterization of Harry Bosch, I wasn't sure I wanted to get into a book in which he had to share the stage with Mickey Haller, another main character.
Having finished The Brass Verdict, I was able to do all of the following in less than two minutes: ascertain that a new Bosch/Haller book (The Reversal) was published in October, buy it for less than if I had waited a year for the paperback to come out, and download it to my reading device.
I'm saving it for a later time, but I could have been reading it literally within minutes of finishing its predecessor.Now that's scary—in a wonderful sort of way.
Mickey Haller has been out of action for a year, after getting shot in the case recounted in The Lincoln Lawyer. Then a lawyer friend of his is murdered, and Mickey is handed his cases. One of them is a big one--a studio executive charged with murdering his wife and her boyfriend. Even Connelly's worst books are good, and this one is great. Well worth rereading.
Michael Connelly's one of the best writing detective fiction (west coast parley) these days. Someone donated a copy of his "The Brass Verdict" to the Carrollton, Miss., library recently, and I snapped it up to read. Very good job, with the expected MC twist -- good connecting the half-brothers, Bosch and Haller!!!

