https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91661.The_Beekeeper_s_Apprentice
Now, Holmes often doesn’t tell Watson about his plans but I cannot remember one instance in which he willfully lied to him (maybe you can?).SherlockAlthough readers love Sherlock, he’s not supposed to be a “friendly” character.
The "bumbling idiot" angle is played up A LOT, but even worse, King makes it seem like Holmes doesn't really care about Watson at all.
It's possible to make new friends and find new lovers without shitting all over the old ones, and to insist otherwise seems so amateurish, the worst kind of rookie fic writer mistake.I'm actually kind of curious to see where this series goes; King, to her credit, takes it suitably slow, and I want to be convinced by the possibility of Holmes falling for someone.
*goes to read "The Adventure of the Devil's Foot" (which has a great Watson-saves-Holmes'-life scene) to make herself feel better*
My friend Veronica Belmont recommended this book and after I watched the first episode of season 2 of the BBC Sherlock (OMG IT IS SO GOOD YOU GUYS!) I got fixated on Holmes and needed this book.IT"S SO GOOD!
What a great reinterpretation of Holmes and his young apprentice, who grows to become his equal.
The partnership that is formed between the two of them is so organic and believable, and Mary Russell is a whip-smart protagonist that I rooted for on every page.
It's definitely not a romance book, it's much more a character study/mystery, so anyone should enjoy this for sure!
I thought this was a perfect marriage and still think that Neil Gaiman’s “A Study in Emerald” is one of the best “Sherlock Holmes” stories ever written.So when I started looking up the background for this book, I wasn’t sure if it was going to be a new, fresh take on Sherlock Holmes or simply another Holmes mystery with Mary Russell acting like a FEMALE Sherlock Holmes, which we have all seen before...case in point: 
Well I started the book and was instantly taken with both the character of Mary Russell and the prose and writing style of Laurie King.
Laurie King does such a masterful job writing about Sherlock Holmes and his new apprentice, that I often found myself checking the cover to make absolutely sure it wasn't really written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle!The book begins with an editor's note from Laurie King, informing us that the following story was not written by her at all, but rather was pieced together from documents written by an "M.R.H.".
Perhaps this truly was a cop-out by Laurie King, but I still felt it managed to enhance the story rather than detract from it.While there are a few characters that come and go, the story is definitely all about Mary & Sherlock.
I really wanted to like this book, and hoped that it would propel me into a new and exciting mystery series.How wrong I was.First of all, Mary Russell, the narrator, may as well have been named Mary Sue Russell.
I don't know what her beef is, but I do know that anyone writing a book using the characters of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson should do Sir Arthur Conan Doyle the courtesy of actually reading his short stories and novels and not rely on how the characters have been portrayed in the movies and on TV.
Beautiful and entertaining. I'm not sure I'll read the next ones in the series, but The Beekeeper's Apprentice was even better than I expected.More detailed comment to follow!
This was an easy read, nicely written with some interesting characters but a couple of problems for me.
Firstly I was uncomfortable with Mary only being fifteen.
She is a very mature fifteen but it seemed far fetched that she could have had the freedom to do as she does in this story.
Secondly I struggled with her relationship with Holmes.
The author tried to explain it as father/daughter, partner, associate, friend and towards the end (when she has aged a little) more than just a friend.
I wish the story had started with Mary as at least 30.
Ok, I got to page 60 and am calling it quits.The Watson bashing is already in full swing.There is a scene that was basically copied out of Pride and Prejudice.This is all wrong and too disturbing.I'm sorry, I am just not compatible with pastiche when it concerns my favourite characters.
Posted at  The Literary Lawyer.ca   A Sweeping and Enchanting Tale - 4.5 Stars  In the past couple of years I have firmly decided that I love a great character driven novel.
It takes a tried and true character in Sherlock Holmes and adds a spunky young feminist into the mix.
In fact, this is the first book I have ever read that had Holmes as a character.
While Holmes is an interesting character, the real focus is Mary Russell.
This first book in this series is really a coming of age story for Mary Russell.
An enjoyable mystery with a young, brilliant Mary Russell meeting middle-aged Sherlock Holmes, and eventually becoming his apprentice.
The book covers a series of fairly benign, short cases the two work on together, with Mary demonstrating intelligence, quick-thinking and an inclination for action.
Mary also frequently takes Sherlock to task for his at times Victorian attitudes towards women.
She's smart, forthright, sensible, hardworking, and an enjoyable character to spend time with.
Sherlock is often irritating and I enjoyed every time Mary figuratively thwacked him for his behaviour.
Mrs. Hudson, of course, is Holmes' ever-dependable landlady, and there is the occasional female client, witness, etc., but most of them are not very round characters.
King has remedied this defect admirably in the person of Mary Russell, an eminently round and appealing character, a narrator who (unlike Watson) is as smart as Holmes --who isn't as "retired" as the above description suggests.This character-driven Holmes pastiche is actually better than the original novels, IMO, though very faithful to Doyle's characterizations of Holmes, Mycroft, Watson, etc.
Sherlock Holmes meets Mary Russell (the narrator), a 15 year old young woman, one day and recognizes her as a like-minded individual almost instantly.’The formality of his speech was faintly ludicrous considering that we were two shabby figures facing each other on an otherwise deserted hillside.’Mary quickly becomes a sidekick to Holmes and he teaches her all the tricks of his trade.
The progression of their relationship was lovely and despite the fact that it could be construed as inevitable it was still a delight to witness.Reminders of my femininity always took him by surprise.
Now, having read the first book in this series years after it appeared because Goodreads friends whose opinion I value rated it highly, I realise that pre-conceptions can get in the way of genuine literary enjoyment.
Her skill as a writer also makes me realise that maybe I don't mind historical crime fiction after all.
I suspect that readers with some familiarity with and liking for the Sherlock Holmes stories would get more out of this series than readers coming to the books with no such background.
Mary narrates her own story 75 years later.
Mary likes to interrupt the story with a million statements like, “But, I didn’t realize that until later” or “But, that’s a story for another time.” I hated that and it happens every two seconds!
There’s an entire 40 million page scene where Mary and Sherlock are in Jerusalem where she only gives a hint of stories.
All Mary says is that they broke into places, stole stuff, and did spy stuff…but that’s a story for another time.
Don’t even get me started on the DESCRIPTIONS OF CHESS GAMES!!
If this wasn’t a book club read, I wouldn’t have finished it.
This series (of which this book is the first) follows the exploits of a young woman called Mary Russell living in the earlier half of the twentieth century.
This books begins in 1915.
However, this is really Mary's book (and series) and how she grows with the aid of her mentor.
Within each other the the emotionally scarred but highly intellectual Mary and the brilliant Holmes find kindred spirits.
I loved the prose and the way each character held their own distinct voice, even the secondary ones like Mrs. Hudson and Watson.
And Mary, while being a young half-American Jewish feminist, doesn't seem false like many other such heroines.
Rating Clarification: 3.5 StarsIt takes guts to mess with a canon as sacred to fans as the Holmesian one.
Author Laurie King shows off all of these traits in abundance in her debut novel featuring famed and beloved master detective Sherlock Holmes and his sidekick John Watson Mary Russell.
Yep, you heard me, Mary Russell: half American, half Jewish, 15 years old at the beginning of the story, and 100% Holmes' equal in spirit and intellectual firepower.
Beyond that, her characterization of Holmes feels "right" to this fan of the original stories.I would have rated it higher but for a sloppy and "out-of-left-field" unmasking of the villain, IMO.
A witty, big-hearted book narrated by Sherlock Holmes's teenage apprentice-cum-partner, Mary Russell.
I love passages like this, after Mary asks Holmes if her presence is inconvenient (they do make an odd pair):"To my considerable surprise, Russell, you have proven a competent assistant and, furthermore, hold some promise for becoming an invaluable one.
It is, I can even say, a new and occasionally remarkable experience to work with a person who inspires, not by vacuum, but by actual contribution....You cannot help being female, and I should be something of a fool as well were I to discount your talents merely because of their housing."I should probably disclose here that I have not read any of Doyle's Sherlock Holmes work.
Nazi movies, for god's sake.)Anyway, this is a perfectly adequate mystery (and I'm deliberately damning with faint praise), but the book is more about the relationship between Holmes and Mary Russell than about the mystery.
When she and Holmes travel to Palestine you'd expect a young lady of her time and place to have disparaging things to say about filthy Arabs and that sort of thing, not to mention when they mix with working class people and impersonate Gipsys [sic:].
Too bad I bought more (used, but still) when I got this one.I don't think I'm giving anything away when I say that Holmes and Russell are going to get married in some later book.
I was living my carefree, ignorant life until I decided to visit my best friend last November in Kansas.
Sometimes I don’t know whether I was better off before, when I didn’t have to wait for the next year to roll around for a new season.
I own them, but I just have no idea what to expect; I guess I am just a bit cautious, as with all classics.
When I heard about The Beekeeper’s Apprentice, I wasn’t sure what to expect, either.
After all, Holmes coming out of retirement accompanied by a young, female apprentice, seemed a bit farfetched.
But in this case, a Mary Sue was a real thing to fear, since the term Mary Sue refers to a character, usually a young girl, written into a pre-existing fictional world so that the author can essentially become best friends with, lovers, or co-conspirators with whatever beloved characters are in that world (I believe the term originated with Star Trek fanfiction).It helps that her writing style is so engaging.
It also helps that her impetus for writing the story in the first place wasn’t to insert anyone or anything into Holmes’ world, but instead Mary was born out of her own curiosity to see what a female character with a mind similar to Sherlock Holmes could do in a story.
15 year old Mary Russell is wandering across the downs with her nose in a book one day and unfortunately almost steps on Sherlock Holmes, who is quite rudely and unexpectedly in her way.
A verbal fencing match ensues and Sherlock finds, to his utter amazement, that not only does "it think" but it is in fact female.This starts off a book that covers four years of Mary being friends with Sherlock.
This works fine because Mary is really the star of the book.It may be female, but it's also ferociously clever and fierce.
But really, a huge chunk of how I felt about this book this time around was related to the fact that I now work in a school and thanks to Ministerial Order 870, all school employees have had to do a LOT of training about child protection and grooming and a million and one other things.
(view spoiler)[The problem for me comes in knowing that later in the series, Mary and Sherlock end up married.
And knowing that they end up married just made me suuuuuuuuuuuuuper uncomfortable after all the Ministerial Order 870 stuff I've had to read in the past year.
Each episode if you like was self contained and could easily stand on its own.Then you have the second half of the book when you realise that there is something bigger afoot (sorry could not resist) which not only starts to draw together some of the earlier episodes but also extends the short self contained events in to the one long adventure.
Well I realise that we are still at the early days of Miss Mary Russell and that we have to establish her as the central character who is more than capable of looking after herself both mentally and physically.
I actually don't have a problem with the way Holmes or Watson were written, and the idea of Holmes as a mentor is fun and intriguing.
But then my sister told me that Mary and Holmes get married, and as much as I enjoy a May/December romance...
I didn't even believe Kelly at first, but as I read it became increasingly obvious how important Mary is to Holmes, and when he was concerned about her he tended to make uncharacteristic mistakes.I have certainly read worse takes on Holmes, but I did not love this.
I love that Sherlock Holmes is like the original fandom.
There might be fanfiction that predates Holmes, but actual fandom?
Ara ara sıkılsam da epey iyiydi. Sanırım Sherlock'u izlemekten, okumaktan asla bıkmayacağım.. Mary ise güzel bir tat katıyor. Kitapta paragraf girişi olmaması beni rahatsız etti, söylemeden edemeyeceğim. Sherlock sevenlere önerilir. "bir kadın bile" vurgularını göz ardı etmek zorunda kalıyorsunuz, bunu unutmayın.
“I became, in other words, more like Holmes than the man himself: brilliant, driven to a point of obsession, careless of myself, mindless of others, but without the passion and the deep-down, inbred love for the good in humanity that was the basis of his entire career. He loved the humanity that could not understand or fully accept him; I, in the midst of the same human race, became a thinking machine.” While in the medias the only version I'll every be loyal to is BBC Sherlock, in the literary
They were fun and entertaining, especially the second one, but then the real case, the whole point of the story, came to surface and finally I came to fully love this novel.A series of attempted homicides towards Holmes, Mary and Watson happen and the various clues give nothing but an unbelievable response.
I really loved her, ugh.Really great characters are also Watson, who is just the most adorable thing ever (and Sherlock-John relationship was so cute, I squealed a lot), and Mycroft, that finally shines unlike in the original stories.
Review of the audiobook narrated by Jenny Sterlin.The character of Mary Russell is interesting and likable.
In any case I wasn't sufficiently impressed to want to continue the series.I found Jenny Sterlin to be a just OK narrator.
What I didn't like was her voice for Sherlock Holmes.
I don't think it was the expectations of watching Holmes movies and TV shows, it was just a delivery that grated on my ears more and more as the book went on.
This was obviously a book that needed to be narrated by a woman, but I don't think they made the right choice for the part.
Add to that that the story proper didn't even get started until halfway through the book, and I have to admit I got a little impatient.
I was expecting a kind of fast-paced exciting ride, with unpredictable Holmes at the wheel taking us careening through seedy London underground life, recklessly charging in and saving the day, but that wasn't what I got at all.
I'm not saying this to fault the author -- the story was good, and the writing was great, but this is definitely one case where expectation worked against me.
Mary Russell, a precocious fifteen-year-old, is walking with her nose in a book when she trips over Sherlock Holmes.
This may also be the reason why Dr Watson is presented as more of a bumbling character, rather than a helpmate to Sherlock Holmes, since Mary may have considered Watson a rival for Holmes' attention.When Holmes considers the college-aged Mary ready to help him on an important case, they head for Wales to search for a kidnapped girl.
