https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/693350.Samurai_
Και, φυσικά, δεν άργησα να το πιάσω στα χέρια μου με σκοπό να το διαβάσω.Τα (πολλά) λόγια είναι φτώχεια: Στο βιβλίο αυτό διαβάζουμε σε πρώτο πρόσωπο τα κατορθώματα ενός από τους καλύτερους και ηρωικότερους πιλότους που πολέμησαν ποτέ στον Β' Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο, του θρυλικού Γιαπωνέζου πιλότου Σαμπούρο Σακάι.
Η γραφή είναι εξαιρετική, εθιστική και ευκολοδιάβαστη, με πολύ δυνατές περιγραφές των πολεμικών σκηνών, πραγματικά έγινα ένα με τον Σακάι και το Zero του.
I liked Saburo's honesty.
There's a story where he and an allied pilot are locked in an exhausting dogfight.
Eventually Saburo gets a couple of shots at the cockpit, glass shatters!
He pulls up alongside and the badly wounded allied pilot raises his arm in a sort of salute.
Saburo salutes back, two warriors reaching out across the sky ...
before he falls behind to shoot the crippled plane out of the sky.
Oh. Did he mean to tell us that he watched the crippled plane limp to safety?But not so much fun as: Kamikaze: A Japanese Pilot's Own Spectacular Story of the Famous Suicide Squadrons
The first-person story of Japan's greatest flying ace in World War II.
One thing that makes this book fun is that if you have a lot of romantic illusions about Japan or the samurai class this book will cure them.
Not that Saburo Sakai isn't a class act, and a gentleman, but that he grew up very poor in spite of his "samurai" ancestry.
I mean like on the farm, dirt poor.
This is a great book for anyone who likes World War II, flying aces, history, and Japanese culture.
For someone who is perpetually intrigued by the combat that took place in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War II, it was very interesting to read a book from the perspective of a Japanese fighter ace.
He experienced some of the most intense aerial combat of the entire war, from his early days flying in China to the hairy combat over Lai and Rabaul to the final days of the war on the Japanese homeland.
And what life reads like a perfect story?
Definitely a wonderful supplemental read for anyone interested in the air war over the Pacific -- or the Pacific War as a whole.
This was always one of my favorite books as a younger reader. I finally met and came to know Saburo Sakai, and he was one of the most entertaining interviews I ever conducted and published. This book is 100% true, no embellishment, and if you want to see the mind of a young man who became a national hero, in a war he hated, read this book.
Saburo Sakain "Samurai" (WSOY, 1958) on tunnetuimpiin japanilaisiin hävittäjä-ässiin kuuluvan lentäjän muistelmateos, jossa hän kertoo värikkäästi kokemuksistaan Tyynenmeren rintamalla vuosina 1938-1945.
Sakain kirjassa esittämä väite kuudestakymmenestäneljästä ilmavoitosta on myös asetettu kyseenalaiseksi, ja esimerkiksi Wikipedian mukaan tuossa luvussa saattaa olla yli puolet ilmaa.Niin tai näin, "Samurai" on joka tapauksessa mieleenpainuva teos, ja yksi kiehtovimmista lukemistani ilmailukirjoista kautta aikain.
Lentämistä kuvaavissa kohtauksissa teos tuntuu kirjaimellisesti nousevan siivilleen ja kiidättävän lukijansa armottomiin ilmataisteluihin Tyynen valtameren yläpuolelle.
Vakavasti haavoittuneen Sakain paluulentoa kuvaava luku on huikea, samaten tarina - lieneekö sitten totta vai ei - pommikoneen lentäjästä, joka unelmoi silmukan tekemisestä.Sakai kuvaa ilmasotaa raadollisesti.
A very interesting biography of a WWII Japanese fighter pilot and his experiences during the war.
He was one of Japan's leading aces.At the outset of the war, the Japanese flew the Zero, a fighter that was superior to US fighters, and Sakai downed many US fighters.
Reading this book, I'm impressed that there are skilled, principled, heroic fighters on both sides of a war.
It's such a tragedy that their skills are used just to attempt to kill one another.The book provides interesting insight into the psychology of a fighter pilot as well as a small but interesting window into Japanese culture.
Saburo Sakai became a hero in his homeland and his account of his place in the Pacific War is even-handed and illuminating.
As the war wears on, however, and the United States becomes more fully engaged on its Western front, the tide turns and the situation becomes increasingly desperate for Sakai and his compatriots, until the inevitable crushing defeat.
Sakai, along with his co-authors Martin Caidin and Fred Saito, presents exciting accounts of air battles and Sakai's harrowing experience piloting his aircraft back to base after sustaining injuries that should have killed him.
Without a doubt my favourite book about aviation in WW2.
The Japanese were not so strict, and several of this author's claims were unverified.A larger problem with the story, in my opinion, was that the author seemed to think there was a very specific point where the tide turned against the Japanese, and if they had done a few things differently, they might have prevailed.
To him, it's a sudden change, as if it were caused by a few incidental details, and if everyone had continued to push and succeed the way he had been, they could have prevailed.The reality, I think, is fundamentally different.
And a story told in hindsight should acknowledge that there is no way it could possibly have turned out any differently than it did.
Emocionante, terrible, entretenida, desoladoramente bella, dolorosa, vengativa historia. Va de menos a más y ya después de que a Saburo Sakai le meten una bala en el cerebro volando su Zero se convierte una adicción. PS: Es la autobiografía de Sakai. Lo de la bala va como en la mitad del libro. i.e. una bala en el cerebro volando un avión dañado a 1000 kms de su pista más cercana no era motivo para echarse a morir.
Piloting a Mitsubishi A6M "Zero" was hair-raising enough, with its notorious lack of armor and self-sealing fuel tanks, but flying one while bleeding to death, down one eye, and fading in and out of consciousness is the kind of experience Saburo Sakai, legendary Japanese fighter ace, places the reader in through his autobiography and memoir,  Samurai!  (with additional credit to Martin Caidin and Fred Saito), first published way back in 1957.World War II is one of those conflicts shrouded in rev
Piloting a Mitsubishi A6M "Zero" was hair-raising enough, with its notorious lack of armor and self-sealing fuel tanks, but flying one while bleeding to death, down one eye, and fading in and out of consciousness is the kind of experience Saburo Sakai, legendary Japanese fighter ace, places the reader in through his autobiography and memoir, 
The leaders in this conflict gave us history -- but the soldiers gave us stories we would do well never to forget.
And Saburo Sakai tells quite a story.Continue reading the review on my website.
For a history buff this book is a must read.
The book is a compilation of firsthand information from interviews with people who were there, but it reads like a novel!
Then bristling up, returning to the cockpit and the sky, again taking his Zero against multiple plains at the same time an impossible feat and returning his craft home without a bullet hole in it; it is a journey into WWII Japan, his finding love, and his conquering death by narrow escapes, his misery and degradation after the war and his rising to a position of success in life.
Saburo Sakai became a hero in his homeland and his account of his place in the Pacific War is even-handed and illuminating.
As the war wears on, however, and the United States becomes more fully engaged on its Western front, the tide turns and the situation becomes increasingly desperate for Sakai and his compatriots, until the inevitable crushing defeat.
Sakai, along with his co-authors Martin Caidin and Fred Saito, presents exciting accounts of air battles and Sakai's harrowing experience piloting his aircraft back to base after sustaining injuries that should have killed him.
Great semi-auto-biography of WWII Japanese fighter ace Saburo Sakai.
It's written as Saburo Sakai's auto-biography but Caiden adds quite a bit in a subtle manner so you get the impression it's all Sakai.
There are times when Sakai's claims and memory seem suspect, just a little too detailed, but when you consider it is written from his perspective only, filtered through an interpreter, Fred Saito, and then written by a talented writer with extensive historical aviation knowledge, you can accept this book at face value for what it is, the perceptions of a young fighter pilot in the fog of war yet written by a talented author.
This is a nail-biting account of the aerial war in the Pacific theater as seen through the eyes of Saburo Sakai, the most redoubtable Japanese ace to survive WWII.
Kudos to ghostwriter Martin Caidin, an aeronautics buff and deft pilot himself, who put together a gripping story based on long conversations with the fighter pilot, backed up by Sakai's meticulously kept diaries.
It is the contrast between the narrator's very Japanese sounding stoicism and the utterly hair-raising events that kept me glued to these pages.
An incredible book. Saburo Sakai (and his co-author Martin Caidin) paint a vivid and enthralling picture of the Japanese side of World War II. One feels both the deep dedication of Sakai to the Samurai spirit and to his sense of duty, as well as his keen awareness of the folly of the war. After reading this book, I felt more like Sakai was that vet living down the street who had shared some of his experiences with me, someone I had known and who had died, not a remote and indistinct figure I had read about in a book.
Saburo Sakai was one of the few Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) aces to survive the war. He considered his greatest triumph was not scoring over 60 kills but never having lost a wing man in some 200+ dogfights - no mean achievement!Martin Caidin had already established his reputation as an aviation historian by the time he wrote this book. He could easily have chosen some other aviation topic to write about. Instead, he preferred to tell the tale of a former enemy pilot. In doing so, he has made a significant contribution to aviation history.
Very well written and engaging text that immerses the reader in the perspective of one of WWII Japan's leading ace pilots, Saburo Sakai. Unlike many similar books, it isn't solid statistics and battles and reads as very genuine. Personally, I enjoyed Sakai's insight on 'kamikaze' pilots and think that every WWII buff should be obligated to read texts that humanize foreign soldiers and their struggles- a very important part of the WWII narrative.
This was super interesting seeing WWII from the Japanese perspective and has piqued my interest in the rest of the war that we were not taught about during class. This is also a great book for the bus because for the most part its easy to pick up and put down. Overall homygodawesome! Loved it! You should give it a shot even if you are typically not into the historical stuff :D Hope you enjoy reading this as much as I did!
There's something just undeniably engrossing about the story, and it's refreshing to here the story of the Second World War from the other side. What makes the story all the more mind boggling is that it's true, from Saburo surviving a bullet to the head in 1942 to dogfighting 16 planes at once and living to tell the tale.
This is an amazing story written by a legendary Japanese fighter pilot about his experiences during world war II. It was near impossible for me to put this book down. Saburo's accounts of his personal experiences are so riveting and candid. The book was originally published in 1957 and was one of the first accounts of WWII from a Japanese pilot. An amazing piece of history.
I read alot of these books. When I was in High School at Sebeka, MN and when I was in the Army. Especially my 1st Tour as a MP in Muenster by Dieberg, Aschafflengberg Darmstadt area.Trying to find and catalog the books I have read in the past.Many I need to re-read again.
One of the best book received from father, describes clearly about world conflagration and role of fighter planes during WW2.
It was very interesting to read a story from the perspective of the "other side" in WWII. In Japan, a movie was also made of this book, which was good too.
A look at the training and war time experience of the leading "Living" Japanese ace. Incredible story.
Very epic story, one of the best books I've Ever red
This book has a publish date of 1957 and is the war-time account of Saburo Sakai, the leading Japanese fighter ace to survive the Second World War. Sakai, born in 1916, trying to escape the poverty of his home life enlisted in the Imperial Japanese Navy at the age of 16.
Graduating at the top of his pilot-training class, he became a Japanese hero fighting against the Chinese and the Allies during WWII.
A leading ace, he downed 64 Allied aircraft.
I have not read a book from the Japanese perspective during WWII which gave me a different side to what was going on.
Sakai was the modern incarnation of the Samurai. And he knew it. A fascinating book about that culture and a view of the losing side (spoiler alert). The explanation of why Japan lost tactical battles flies in the face of some cultural bias. The Japanese fliers emphasized individual talent and spirit while the Americans were team players. The Japanese economy was bad at mass production. Another little know fact is that the Japanese treated their own soldiers almost as bad as they treated allied prisoners. And they had no concept of "surrender".
An excellent, true story with an incredible look into war from the eyes of a Japanese fighter pilot/ace. I enjoyed the perspective through a man's eyes who fought WWII on the other side.Bravery knows no borders or nationality and this man was one very brave, hard-fighting individual. His story is one of the best I've read, be it fiction or such as this wonderful non-fiction story.
