https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4667024-the-help
It's an important topic, and I don't want to hear it through untrustworthy narrators.So, I can basically get on board with the dialect of the black maids, but what throws me off as a reader is when the black maid is quoting the white women and they’re all speaking perfect English without a trace of an accent.
Again, I don’t have a problem with stupid books, but when it’s a stupid book disguised as an Important Work of Cultural History, all I want to do the whole time is tear its mask off.
I understand that the author wrote much of this as a result of her experiences growing up in the south in the 1960's, and that it may seem authentic to her, and that she was even trying to be respectful of the people and the time; but, ultimately, I thought that it was written from a very narrow, idealized, almost childish perspective of race relations without a true appreciation of the humanity and soul of the characters.
Even better.I rolled my eyes and returned to page one, fully prepared to hate every word on every page, beginning with Aibileen's horrifically stereotyped "voice" written by this smug White Lady.
Dammit.And this was the pattern that followed in the 2 1/2 days it took me to read The Help; I found myself loving it and hating it simultaneously, but leaning more to the Love side of the dilemma.
(No surprise that The Rich White Lady Saves The Day And Gets What She Wants.)Is The Help Great Literature?
well, for that I quite liked it.So congratulations, Whitey McWhiterson, I wound up not hating your book.
There is such deep history in the black/white relationship and this story beautifully shows the complex spectrum, not only the hate, abuse, mistrust, but the love, attachment, dependence.
I know most reviews will probably focus on the racial relationships in the book, but to me the most haunting statement was that when you are paying someone to care for you and their livelihood depends on making you happy, you can't expect an honest relationship.
I could so relate to the motherly love from Constantine to Skeeter, see that pain in the triangle between Aibileen and Mae Mobley and Elizabeth, feel the exasperation of Minny toward Celia, and understand the complexity of the good and bad, the love and hate, the fear and security.
And if her intent isn't anything greater, then it makes this book all the more pandering to the white imagination of what it must have been like to be "the help" during that era.
It makes me think of my grandmother who was "the help" to many white families for well over 50 years.
Her stories aren't too different from those told in this book, but they are hers to tell.
In fact, I think she we would be horrified at the thought that her years of hard work (in some cases, for some very horrible people) would be reduced to some wannabe feel good story of the past.
In brief, a white woman, Miss Skeeter Phelan--one of Jackson, Mississippi's socially elite--convinces a number of the African-American maids to tell her their story.
Though some of the women are kinder to their maids, they did not fight against the "separate but equal" indignities that included building a "nigra" toilet in their home or garage so that the maids' "nasty" germs would not infect them, the separate entrances, the substandard schools, the "justice" system that made a white accusation the same as proof, and on and on and on.I don't want a book to make me cry and then pull back and say, "It's all right." It's not all right.
We all want to live our lives the best way possible and be treated with respect.“You is kind.
It made me sad, of course, because they just didn’t deserve the animosity that was directed toward them and that’s why I was so eager to turn the pages: I couldn’t wait to see some things change over there.Miss Skeeter is also an important part of this story.
We hate him, we love him, we like him and then we hate him for the rest of the book.Never fear, the underlying themes of the story are extraordinary and that alone should make everyone want to read this book.
i figured it was something for the ladies, like sex and the city, which i don't have to have ever seen an episode of to know that it's not something i would enjoy.
i don't even know what to say, i just feel all "aw, shucks, i loved this book" about it - there were several times i would catch myself grinning at a turn of phrase or a situation, and every time i would start to doubt myself, that maybe i would like sex and the city.
“We are just two people. Not that much separates us. Not nearly as much as I'd thought.”My favourite book next to Harry Potter. This novel did so many things to me.There was lots of crying......happiness......sass......more tears......and most of all friendship.Read it.Find more of my books on Instagram
But she's struggling mightily to deal with grief over the death of her 20-something son, and she SURE doesn't think conditions will ever improve for African-American domestic-engineering servants in early-1960s Jackson, Mississippi or anywhere else in the South.
Aibileen's good friend Minny has been a maid since she was very young, and on the first day of her first job her mother admonished her that sass-mouth, especially her degree of it, is highly dangerous--but it's not long before she's just gotta mouth off....and look for another job.
Celia Foote needs a domestic engineer, but she also needs a friend, a real ally, even a confidante.
Each and every one shows you a different personality: leaders and followers, movers and shakers, smart and silly, strong and weak, tolerant and intolerant, thirsty for all the world has to offer and content to stay the same for an entire lifetime.When a writer can shuffle this many people throughout a story, they have invested themselves into the book, the characters, the setting, the theme, the future.I haven't read anything else by this author, but just thinking about this book, and realizing I haven't looked at her other works makes me want to run to her profile now and pick one.
The guy just couldn’t stop talking about the story, so I decided to borrow the audio book.
The story jumps back and forth between the three characters, all of them providing their version of life in the South, the dinner parties, the fund-raising events, the social and racial boundaries, family relationships, friendships, working relationships, poverty, hardship, violence, and fear.
Her plans to anonymously compile a candid collection of stories about the maids’ jobs and the people they work for will risk her social standing in town, her friendships, and the lives of the maids who tell their stories.
I didn't understand why the boyfriend character was even in there--he added nothing to the story.
In addition, Skeeter keeps telling us that Hilly and Elizabeth are her friends but that's just it--she tells us.
Reading their interactions with Skeeter, I was reminded of Chris Rock's bit about old black men: "I know some of you white people know an old black man--'Oh, Willy at the job--he's so nice!' Willy hates your guts." Worst of all is the particular characterization of Aibileen.
The premise: Before reading, my question was, can Kathryn Stockett write this story?
Can Stockett write this story?
“It's true. There are some racists in this town,” Miss Leefolt say.Miss Hilly nod her head, “Oh, they're out there.”Law, this book be good! I’m on tell you how good this book be. Everthing ‘bout this book be good, you gone read this book and you gone see what I’s mean. Law!
It’s a historical time-period I’ve been really interested, and I thought the portrayal of the events and the relationships were pretty accurately done.The characters are really well done – they’re all pretty different and easy to tell apart, and they’re all so likable in their own real, sometimes prickly ways.And I was impressed by the fairly even-handedness of the topic that Stockett managed.
Even though The Help talks about a very serious time in American history, the author really thought about how to write the story in a way that it just flows.I really felt a connection with each of the characters.
I don't think this could be any more obvious, trite and cliche-ridden. The book's only aim is to make white people feel better about themselves (you know, that same old a-brave-white-lady-savior story you've read and a few dozen times before). Guess it worked. Again.
In Jackson, Mississippi, the years leading up to the Civil Rights Movement presented a time where colour was a strong dividing line between classes.
Skeeter sought to write a tell-all from the perspective of the hired help, in hopes of shining a light on the ongoing domestic slavery taking place within a ‘freed’ America.
Stockett pulls no punches in the presentation, fanning the flames of racial and class divisions, as she depicts a way of thinking that was not only accepted, but completely sanctioned.
The characters within the book presented a wonderful mix of society dames and household help, each with their own issues that were extremely important.
This tumultuous trio takes the first step in sparking a movement that will ignite fire to the racism and hypocrisy of their small town.My synopsis of the story probably isn't even a tenth of the merit it deserves.
I don't want to spoil too much about the book, but the most amazing thing about The Help is its characters.
I was angry alongside them, cheered for them, and cried with them.I think everyone should read this book, especially people who are ignorant about the racism and hypocrisy that still manages to plight everyday society.
The Help is a touching novel that explores the lives of black maids living in the racially unjust, M
“Do you ever wish you could... change things?” There are only a few novels that end up in my Home for my heart shelf, i.e. a shortlist of my all-time-favourite books. Those gorgeous prose remind me of limitless imagination, life's trials and tribulations, overcoming overwhelming odds with tenacity, fortitude, kindness, the strength of character, and love; and sometimes, it serves as a personal reminder about that gaping hole that nothing can ever fill. The Help is one of those novels. “They say
There are only a few novels that end up in my Home for my heart shelf, i.e. a shortlist of my all-time-favourite books.
Those gorgeous prose remind me of limitless imagination, life's trials and tribulations, overcoming overwhelming odds with tenacity, fortitude, kindness, the strength of character, and love; and sometimes, it serves as a personal reminder about that gaping hole that nothing can ever fill.
Hilly Holbrook deserves an Oscar for the most despicable villain portrayed by a character in a book!Overall, this is a well-deserved 5-star read, especially for an impressive debut novel and a heartbreaking ending.
Yet firing the help is not always an option: "the help always know" all the secrets.The three main characters are very strong women, and each gradually finds the strength to follow her conscience, despite the personal risks, to the point where Skeeter realises "I no longer feel protected because I am white".
However, if I were an African-American, or raised in the deep south, I'm sure these aspects would seem much less significant in comparison to the race theme.AUTHENTICITY?When I read this, I had no idea how accurate any of it is (I have subsequently learned of many doubts), but in terms of individual relationships, it rings true to this Brit, especially the different voices through which the story is told.
در این میان، در ایالت می‌.سی‌.سی‌.پی (یک ایالت جنوبی و بشدت نژادپرست) زندگی رنگین‌ پوستان و سفید پوستان در هم تنیده است.
همان‌طور که کاترین استاکت در موخره ی خود، بر کتاب می‌نویسد: «با اطمینان می‌توانم بگویم که هیچ‌کس در خانواده ی من، هرگز از دیمیتری نپرسیده بود: یک سیاه‌پوست بودن در می‌.سی‌.سی‌.پی، بخاطر کار کردنش برای خانواده ی سفید ما، چه احساسی دارد.
سال‌ها آرزو می‌کردم کاش آن‌قدر بزرگ و هوشیار بودم تا از دیمیتری این پرسش را بپرسم.
و به همین خاطر است که این کتاب را نوشتم.»؛ پایان نقل.
I done finished this book finally !I ain't never seen a book like this lately.it were not too long before I seen something in me had changed, reading it !
She very much like Mae Mobley Leefolt.
When I see her, she laugh, dance a little happy jig.
I touch her cheeks, she smile again.Then I go to work but find her dancing again weaving her hand !:)---------------------------------------I'll try to right a review this book, once my grammar restore with me, for now I complete gripped by flow of the help !
The Help sees this world through three sets of eyes, Aibeleen, a fifty-something black woman who has taken care of many white children and is beginning again with a newborn.
Skeeter is a young white woman, newly graduated from college, and eager to pursue a career in writing.
She engages Aibeleen, Minny and a host of other black domestic workers to tell their stories for a book, hoping to expose the hypocrisy and cruelty of Jackson’s white society.
The story not only places the events in historical context, but offers a taste of what it must have been like for the Aibeleens, Minnys and Skeeters of the time.
Servility This is a story on many levels: it is an interesting and engrossing novel, but it covers deep moral issues.
It’s a story of life and communities: how we love and hate, how we laugh and cry, how we interact with family, friends and those we work with/for.The narrative in The Help places the perspective from a white journalist (Miss Skeeter) and 2 black maids (Aibileen and Minny).
To hold the quality of someone’s life as a weapon is corrupt and repulsive, but to do it on a systemic scale is completely abhorrent.The Help is a very clever book, perhaps meant for more global audiences as it provides an entertaining story whilst delivering these deep ethical issues.
So, it looks like THE HELP is turning out to be one of those novels that I love despite flaws.
Nearly everyone in the world knows what this book is about (as I pen this review, it is at #2 in Amazon sales ranking) but I shall reiterate: it’s the story of three women -- two black, one white -- in 1960s Jackson, Mississippi, and how the two black maids work with the one extremely naive white young woman to write a book of their stories as “the help.” In the spirit of honesty, I should tell you that I didn’t want to read it.
It is while playing bridge with her friends, and she becomes aware of her friend, Miss Hilly's, crusade for every home to have a separate bathroom installed for "the help", to contain the germs blacks carry that whites are more susceptible to, that Skeeter realizes she has found her subject matter.Skeeter is the least developed character of the three but she is the means in which this uniquely uplifting story can be told.
It is Skeeter's character, and her ambition to write a book that matters, that strips Aibilene's and Minny's blatantly mistreated, funny and irresistible characters out of their perfectly pressed maid uniforms and into each of our lives.I don't want to give away too much about Abilene and Minny, who became women I loved.
An engrossing, vivid, funny, and important book about three women living in Jackson, Mississippi in the 1960s.
Stockett writes in three first-person voices: 1.
a middle-aged black maid who specializes in childcare, 2.
a hot-tempered black maid who cares for a once-poor, now-rich white woman, and 3.
a white girl who's just graduated from college and is floundering around.
Story is Stockett's first concern, and Jesus God, can she write a story.
I cared deeply about all of these characters, I was outraged and amused and upset whenever Stockett wanted me to be, and I read for five hours straight without getting restless.
"I know there are plenty of other "colored" things I could do besides telling my stories--the mass meetings in town, the marches in Birmingham, the voting rallies upstate. But truth is, I don't care that much about voting. I don't care about eating at a counter with white people. What I care about is, if in ten years, a white lady will call my girls dirty and accuse them of stealing the silver." I watched the movie based on this book a few years ago so when I saw this book at a neighbour's gara
The book tells the story of several black maids or house-helpers working for white families in the early 1960's in Jackson, Mississippi when racial segregation was the norm.
I'm the maid, she ain't gone win no friends talking to me."The thing I liked best about this book was the fact that the author made it clear that the maids had both good and bad experiences depending on who they worked for.
The book written by the maids exposed all of the behaviours of the employers that they had no doubt expected to be kept hidden--the good, the bad and the ugly.
This is a book where coloured maids in 1963 are afraid to speak up.
This is a book where they gain the courage to tell a white lady what actually happens inside their lives.
No one is ready to hear the truth, everyone is scared for their future, but bravery is a strong attire to have, and the maids prove they have what it takes.
Lot of courage, lots of excitement, anxiety and me biting my nails over and over again, but definitely book that's worth reading.
And definitely a book that will open your eyes about what actually happened back then.
