https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138269.Catch_Me_If_You_Can
Fascinating and unbelievable It amazes me that Frank Abagnale got away with all of his cons for as long as he did. He is a man of sharp wit and unduly intelligence. This is a story of white-collar crime and lies. Big, fat, whoppers. If you've seen the movie, Catch Me if You Can and have enjoyed it, you will definitely enjoy this one. This book is heavy on the entertainment and I have no problem with that. A very quick, easy read. Although this is non-fiction, it reads like a modern-day thriller. Absolutely recommended!
"What I learned from this book," Goodreads asks?
That "con man" really does mean "confidence man": the more you act like you deserve something, the more likely you are to get it.
He faked college degrees, professional affiliations, career histories - pretty much everything, including his name.
Without any relevant schooling, throughout his life he "was" (meaning he successfuly convinced people he was) a pilot, doctor and college professor, among others.
This is a great book and a real inspiration for those who believe the mantra: what people don't know won't hurt them - and will probably help me.
Stan allowed Frank to run wild and loose on the narrative of his exploits with almost no confirmation, so that technique left it hard to believe.
A thorough job of dissecting Frank's psychology might have salvaged that issue.
But I'm betting Frank was holding back, and Stan was just taking what he could get out of him.
But Stan and I were jouirnalists in Houston back in the 1970s, so I was expecting more from him.
"Catch Me If You Can" was plenty of fun with a surface scrubbing of the main character's psychology that left me suspicious about how much of this true crime memoir actually was fiction.
3/5
I know I had already seen the movie, but the book was better.
I mean yeah Abagnale did do stuff to piss off the police, and it was usually O'Reilly that was following him, but there wasn't that love hate relationship that there that really made the movie so great.I was also disappointed in the fact that the book just kinda stopped.
The movie was able to show what it was like after his life of crime while I felt like the book was just like crime crime crime crime crime fun crime fun crime jail OVER.So yeah.
But this book really isn't all that special if you already saw the movie.
That's right, the movie was better.I loved Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks in the two roles and kept picturing them for the characters in the book.
The book doesn't have anything more than the movie, and it isn't written very well either.
I've watched a lot of movies before reading the book they originated from, and I never felt this way before.
I wanted to enjoy this book much more than I did, and I even stuck with it all the way through despite being overly disappointed.Honestly, save yourself the time and just watch the movie.
“This phony rips off several hundred banks, hustleshalf the hotels in the world for everything but the sheets, screws every airline in the skies, including most of their stewardesses, passes enough bad checks to paper the walls of the Pentagon, runs his own goddamned colleges and universities, makes half the cops in twenty countries look like dumbasses while he’s stealing over $2 million, and he has a low criminal threshold?
Even a doorman’s gaudy garb stirs vague thoughts of pomp and royalty.I felt great in my Pan Am pilot’s uniform as I walked into La Guardia Airport.
«–Podrías estafar a tu propio padre, Frank.   Ya lo hice.» Qué decepción me llevé con este libro. Creí que iba a ser como la película, o incluso algo similar a la serie White Collar, pero la realidad fue otra y lo que encontré no me gustó.Esta es una novela de crímenes reales, supuestamente basada en la vida de un estafador. El problema es que terminé por no creerle el 90% de lo que contaba. Sobre el otro 10%, espero de verdad que no sea cierto, porque sino Frank Abagnale ya se ganó una cálida
Sobre el otro 10%, espero de verdad que no sea cierto, porque sino Frank Abagnale ya se ganó una cálida parcelita en el infierno.Estuve tan asqueada con este tipo que me negué a hacer la reseña durante dos semanas.En realidad al principio me gustaba mucho, me parecía que estaba redactado de forma ingeniosa y hasta carismática.
No habrá sorpresas a lo largo de la narración, porque ya desde la página uno sabemos que Frank se va a estafar a su propio padre (ahí ya no me simpatizó tanto), va a hacerse pasar por piloto de Pan Am, por médico, a comprometerse con una chica a la que también tiene engañada, a ir preso y luego de escaparse, acabar ayudando a la policía a capturar estafadores.
Truly amazing what Abagnale, a guy who never finished high school, got away with, such as impersonating an airline pilot, a lawyer and a teacher...and all at a very young age.
Also, it's amazing what a man will do just to bed women, which is what Abagnale says motivated him to lie, cheat and steal.
I finished this book in two days, but I had never read anything that had so many expressions I wasn't familiar with or words that were used in an unexpected context (for example, he writes "abroad", but doesn't mean "in a foreign land"), as well as some curious inaccuracies (for ex, a "glide scope" isn't a light, as he claims), but that's the refreshing aspect of this book, as it feels authentic, as if Abagnale himself was speaking, sort of like Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye!
Two big things that hold me back from rating this higher: 1)The author's attitude towards women is stuck pretty firmly in the early 60s.
I believe he was bold and a lot of people gave him a pass because they thought he was an airline pilot, but it can't all have been glamour and no one gets hurt.
The author makes a few glancing references to people who might have been fired for passing his checks, but I'd have liked a little more self-awareness that he was basically a common thief.Otherwise, a nice nostalgia trip.
Then, the repetitiveness about how smart he is, how young he was, how he managed to rip of countless people, etc, etc..just got old.
In the movie, I felt bad for poor Leonardo DiCaprio, and didn't want him to get caught.
(And was a little peeved that he ended the book when he escaped--leaving it to the ghost writer to clarify in the afterword.) When he was in his French jail cell...which was pretty gruesome, I admit, I didn't feel bad for him.
Man, I'm an old fogey that I care about this stuff.
My recommendation: If you liked the book, leave it at that.
Digital audio book narrated by Barrett Whitener.Subtitle depends on the edition: The Amazing True Story of the Most Extraordinary Liar in the History of Fun and Profit!
He was arrested more than once, and even served some time in European prisons, but more often he charmed his way out of the situation, or pulled off a daring escape.
It’s a fascinating memoir of his years of crime, full of daring escapades, humorous situations, and outlandish lies.
Abagnale’s audacity is matched only by his charm.
Barrett Whitener does a fine job narrating the audio book.
Look, I have nothing against authors saying how intelligent their characters are (let's forget that Frank is real, for a bit).
However, I do have an issue with the author constantly saying that same fact over and over, as if the very content of the book doesn't already show how intelligent the character is.Unlike in the movie (I know, how dare I compare these two?), Frank is not a sympathetic character.
The content was entertaining, but the writing felt out of place, as if it was written by a young boy who has lived a man's life.
This was the real life story of Frank Abagnale Jr. one of America's best con men.
It seems rather incredible reading about it, that this was able to happen, but he seems to have helped to have improved security and anti-forgery since his release from prison.I found the book quite difficult to read and it kinda just ends?
It was very abrupt, and I think it would have been better if there had been a proper epilogue rather than a Q&A with Abagnale.
I also think I struggled with the book because I was expecting it to be more like the musical or the film, and it really wasn't.
Frank Abagnale was a genuis, albeit a criminal one. This story of his legendary crimes as a con man entertains and demands that the pages be turned quickly. It is both amazing and unnerving at how easily he was able to perpetuate his scams. These same cons would not work today but the sheer ballsiness of his ploys no doubts resonates with present day bad guys. I really could not put it down.
Also, as an adult, I've veered more towards non-fiction, so the fact that this is based on a true story, is another thing that made it my kind of story.
And, human memory itself often takes liberties with the facts.
Anyone with even slightly authoritarian views might think it obscenely humane treatment for criminals.
If you feel that criminals "deserve to be punished," then you will have a hard time understanding the Swedish approach.
lower-ranking individuals.- He eventually changed his ways, and left his criminal ways behind (-paths are notoriously hard to reform).I think Frank's own explanation seems to work the best.
True story of Frank Abangale's con artist ways. Really enjoyed it! Though the movie with Leo was great too, I loved knowing how the real Frank came to be.
People really liked this book.
He knew how to make people believe him, and it seemed like he was having fun doing it.
Con artists like this are interesting, but I doubt if you knew him you would feel that way after a while.
Take this guy; he could have caused a lot of damage pretending to be a doctor and a lawyer.
I worked for a psychiatrist for a while, and he was a sociopath, said that he didn’t have any feelings for his clients, which helped him in some ways as he didn’t take on their problems.
I should have asked him what it felt like to not care for others.
I understand now why the movie was based from the FBI Agent's POV. This Abagnale guy is an obnoxious, self-centered, sexist, smug pig and I felt in need of a shower just reading his thoughts. The story itself is interesting and saves the book. Barely.
Romping good fun! You can tell that Abagnale wrote this with another author, but that makes it no less enjoyable. Now I want to re-watch the movie!
While posing as an airline pilot he never actually flew a plane, instead he got free flights by 'deadheading' with other airlines.
It's estimated that he took 200+ flights and flew over a million miles for free.The vast majority of his cons consisted of passing fake payroll, expense and bankers checks.
He escaped custody twice, and that also makes very interesting reading.Abagnale was obviously a master of Social Engineering, before the term was even invented.
(Both eventually became security consultants and ended up working for the FBI.) Also something they have in common, although they can be classified as master criminals, they never actually hurt anyone.
★★★1/2Read this a while ago but I remember enjoying it. Although I do prefer the movie which from memory embellished a fair bit.
Is it possible to be a pilot, a doctor, a professor, a lawyer, and a millionaire all before you are 21? Frank William Abagnale Jr. completed such feats as a teenager. Forging signatures, swindling checks, and charming every pretty bank teller were part of the normal routine For Abagnale. Mainly “Abagnale” was not his name though, as he had many pseudonyms and fake identities. All of Abagnale's stories and crimes are accounted for in his autobiography, Catch Me If You Can.  Abagnale's first con
Forging signatures, swindling checks, and charming every pretty bank teller were part of the normal routine For Abagnale.
After weeks of preparation, fraud, lying, and research Abagnale took his first flight as a Pan Am pilot where he just flew in the jump seat of a United Airlines Plane.
In his career as a pilot he never actually flew a plane, instead he would go on flights with other airlines to get somewhere.
All throughout his travels around the world he swindled checks and committed fraud.
In parts of the book Abagnale describes why he committed so much fraud and had so many false identities.
This was the biggest surprise delight I've had in a long time. This was an absolutely amazing book, and I expected it to be so-so at best. I haven't seen the movie, but am certainly going to.Abagnale's story reminds me of people I've known, though they were less ambitious than he. In addition to a fantastically entertaining anecdote, this work gives tremendous insight into a certain type of scam artist.2018: This was fun to read with the kids, but I fear that I've inspired my son to a life of crime.
Frank "the con-man" Abagnale's real life story is shockingly interesting as he assumes and annually keeps switching identities. From a a Pan Am pilot, to an attorney, to a paediatrician, to a Rolls Royce paper hanger.... all of this while still in his teens! The torture faced in prison life is detailed and hair raising stuff.For entertainment purpose, the movie is more interesting as it parallely shows every counter move and pursuing trails by the FBI agent O'Reily.... plus Tom Hanks, plus Leonardo, plus Steven Spielberg's direction is what makes the film awesome!
Είχα δει την ομώνυμη ταινία πριν μερικά χρόνια και μου άρεσε, ήταν έξυπνη και ενδιαφέρουσα. Το βιβλίο κινείται στο ίδιο στυλ. Γρήγορο, ευκολοδιάβαστο και ευχάριστο. Η ιστορία ενός ιδιοφυούς απατεώνα. Αυτό που μου έκανε εντύπωση είναι η αφέλεια ενός όχι και τόσο μακρινού παρελθόντος: βρισκόμαστε στην δεκαέτία του 1960, πριν την εισβολή του διαδικτύου στην ζωή μας και της καταγραφής της παραμικρής μας κίνησης.
He was almost caught in New Orleans, but convinced the FBI and local police that his credentials were authentic -- he had, after all, managed to pull the wool over experienced airline pilots -- but he was pretty lucky, too, because the PanAm offices happened to be closed for the weekend when he was nabbed, and the authorities couldn’t check withtheir personnel office.
Frank then studied special cameras and presses, purchased one and soon had so much money stuffed in hisluggage he had no room for clothes.Abagnale lived a sumptuous life — he says he went through several million dollars — on the lam, until the law caught up with him.
My dad told me the plot of this book and it caught my attention, and I just want to find out more.
The reason this book interests me is because I think it’s all about business, and how a young boy can become anything he wants, without actually doing all the work.
Overall I think this book will be very interesting and I can’t wait to read more!#2So far catch me if you can has been a very good book!
It really interests me that no one has caught frank the main character, who is technically a criminal, and is wanted by the police all over the world.
I have known people who are or aspired to be confidence men/women, and who get their kicks from impersonating people and lying about their backgrounds, and most of them are pathological liars and thus cannot be trusted even, perhaps especially, when they are describing their own cons and impersonations.
I can hardly believe that Abagnale's con-man career was compressed into so few years between the ages of 16 and 20, and his description of French prisons sounds insanely invented.
I mean, the French are asshats, but he describes it as though it were essentially the Middle Ages.
2.5 Estrellas Cuando decidía darle un rating a este libro mi Estúpida Consciencia y mi Querido Sentido Común tuvieron una discusión al respecto, iba más o menos así.Estúpida Consciencia: ¡¿Cómo que 2.5?! ¡Pero si te reíste y todo!Querido Sentido Común: ¿Y eso qué?E.C.: ¿Te molestó que el tipo fuera todo arrogante?Q.S.C.: No, la verdad me dio lo mismo.E.C.: Entonces fue que creías que exageraba las cosas.Q.S.C.: Un poco, pero también me dio tres pitos.E.C.: Si no fue eso, ¿cuál fue el problema e
¡Pero si te reíste y todo!Querido Sentido Común: ¿Y eso qué?E.C.: ¿Te molestó que el tipo fuera todo arrogante?Q.S.C.: No, la verdad me dio lo mismo.E.C.: Entonces fue que creías que exageraba las cosas.Q.S.C.: Un poco, pero también me dio tres pitos.E.C.: Si no fue eso, ¿cuál fue el problema entonces?Q.S.C.: En primera el tipo no es tan inteligente como se describe a sí mismo y pudo hacer la mayoría de las cosas porque tuvo suerte y, no le creía casi nada de lo que decía, aunque fuera verdad por una sencilla razón:Ni tengo qué decir quien de los dos fue el ganador.El libro no es malo, pero teniendo en cuenta que los hechos sucedieron en la vida real, me pareció que el escritor adornó más de la cuenta todas las cosas.
Aún así, el libro es bastante ligero y te entretiene si no hay nada más alrededor.
