https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180939.Buckland_s_Complete_Book_of_Witchcraft
This book is responsible for more teeny-bopper wanna-be witches than any other book, with the exception of anything written by Silver Ravenwolf. It is full of questionable history and embarrassing "rituals" that are made up by the author himself, although he'd have you believe they are authentic. Buckland as an author is terribly full of himself and has a tendency to cite his own works as resources. Try not to take it seriously if you do read it.
I feel, like all other man-made religions, Buckland just made up his own rules and rituals.
If I could, I'd give this 0 stars simply because I don't want people just learning about Witchcraft to think this is the be-all and end-all of their journeys just because it's a "classic".In the ensuing years as I learned just what I do believe in, I have read many books on Paganism, earth magic, Wicca, Witchcraft, etc.
Please don't feel you HAVE TO believe any of these authors(especially Buckland or anyone who claims to be a Traditionalist) or anyone else to know where you fit into the universe.
"The Big Blue Book." Where to begin?
This (fortunately) was NOT the first book I read on witchcraft.
I took a class at a local shop that taught out of this book though and I feel like it's a little too S&M for me.
I felt as if the whole time I was reading the book Buckland was telling me: This is exactly what witchcraft is, NO EXCEPTIONS!
If you're interested in traditional coven based witchcraft I suppose this book would serve you well.
It was interesting to say the least, but for the average solitary practitioner I do not recommend it.
This book was added to my reading list as a couple of wiccan sites I found (which I believe were written by men, which will become important as I continue).It was touted as a “wiccan bible” and as I flicked through, I could see why.I have never had a good relationship with Christianity, so please be aware that anything using the word bible makes me incredibly uncomfortable.
I have no trouble with nudity, but can we all agree that when harvesting herbs, clothes might have a use?As a beginning witch with no idea where to begin to look for a coven, his chapter “The Solitary Witch” caught my eye and I thought to forgive the naked herb gatherer as a folly of age.
I've no real interest in Wicca anymore because it's become as lopsided as Christianity, but at the opposite end.But, "Uncle Buckey's Big Blue Book" is designed for someone who wants a serious, orderly, introductory study into the esoteric arts of the occult (aka Wicca) and a basic understanding of many of the celto-centric, reconstructionist pagan beliefs in practice today.
Perhaps an additional book titled “The Complete Book of Making Your Own Magickal Witchcraft Stuff” (I didn’t check, did he write one and I didn’t take notice when he sourced yet another piece of his work for more information).
Another annoyance was in his herb section.
He mentions that a common medicine was extracted from foxglove, which was an herb used by village wise-women in days of yore.
He didn't put it in his poisonous herb section either.I'm pretty irritated with his chapter on "Magick" (chapter 11).
But when it comes down to it, this isn't the beginner witchcraft book for me.I have to stop getting Wicca-influenced books, I think.
I have never really been into Gardnerian Wicca or the similar traditions, as far as adopting it as my personal system, and this book really encompasses all of the reasons why.The ritual scourging, binding and blindfolding, the ceremonial feel to things, how the author gives you a way to do things and why and why others ways are wrong "but feel free to do whatever you like."The author makes it seem as though if I don't hand make my own athame, from cutting the metal to carving the handle, the tool will not work.
A dear friend and mentor who meant well gave me this book about 17 years ago when I was relatively new to the pagan path.
While it has a few good spells for the beginning witch, it unfortunately also includes a "history" of Wicca that has absolutely no grounding in historical records; creating new spiritual traditions is fine but one must be completely honest about their provenance.
In addition, the attitude that one *must* be an initiated Gardnerian Wiccan to be a witch worth her salt is pure bunk in my opinion.If you want to learn good spells, there are many other, better books available.
Has some useful/interesting information, but I was put off by his attitude and arrogance. Would recommend this to newbie pagan folks, but only to those who can take everything with a grain of salt and with well-honed BS radar.
This book was my first foray into magick. I picked it up in the very early 90s. It will always hold a special place in my heart as it is a very good book for the beginner.
Some of his info is dated and there are more complete instructions else in other beginners books of this magnitude but I still learned a lot.Raymond Buckland was trained and initiated in Britain by Gerald Gardner himself and then he brought it over to the states.
Buckland aptly states that the paradigm of the God and Goddess are ways of seeing the reality and cosmos and that other ways of viewing reality are just as valid.
buckland does not maintain that Wicca was around in it's present form many millenia ago but he does subscribe to concepts being present.The book is thorough and I learned a lot.
More epic reviews here: The Book GoddessI've read quite a books on Wicca and witchcraft for research, everyone recommended this book to me.
Even Goodreads said this was a book I needed to read.
I know some people don't have a problem with Skyclad worship and such but I think it's totally unneeded.
Most often today witches are solitary and so this book isn't quite as helpful for them.
Lots of people hate on Silver Ravenwolf but she is better for the solitary witch if you ask me.
He really does seem to have all the details worked out and for that I give this book 4 stars.
I found the author to be conceited, drawing on his own published texts for quotes and recommending his other works numerous times.
There is no need to quote oneself.
A quote should be used to either provide examples/proof of your statement or show something that the writer would be unable to proclaim.
Quoting oneself contributes nothing.
With my feelings about the author cast aside, I would recommend this book to anyone who is curious about the Craft.
It touches on a lot of misconceptions and provides practical advice for Wicca in today's world.
This is a book I usually recommend for folks who suspect they might be a Pagan of some sort but haven't identified a particular branch of the tree they might be comfortable on. It gives some decent base information on a number of subjects related to Paganism and witchcraft and also gives a nice directory of the different "flavors" of Paganism and witchcraft. It serves as a nice jumping off point for people who are just beginning their Pagan journey.
Touching on many subjects and thoroughly explaining none, this book is a disappointment.
It should no longer be recommended.Some points I'd like to comment on:1) Witchcraft as a ReligionMany people will want to distinguish between Wicca and Witchcraft.
Many people want to clarify that Witchcraft is something you do and not a religion.
Witchcraft isn't part time, or something you leave in the temple, it's always.
I agree with Buckland here but cannot stand his explanation, or lack thereof.I didn't like the rituals published in this book.
This book just isn't enough anymore.
Opakovaně jsem se setkával s odkazem na tuhle knihu.
Slavná “Velká modrá” kniha o wicce a čarodějnictví.
A snad vždy to bylo s kritikou “fakt špatná kniha”.
Když letos vyšla znovu, neodolal jsem.
Kazdopádně svůj pocit řadím do kategorie “špatná, nedoporučuji”.Celá kniha je v podstatě kuchařka.
Kdyby ovšem autor byl aspoň trochu kritický a nevycházel z pochybných až velmi pochybných historických zdrojů.
V knize tak najdete snad všechno, co byste si k pojmu čarodějnictví mohli představit: astrologie, výklady snů, čtení z ruky, věštění z koule.
Věřím, že si kniha nějaké čtenáře i následovníky najde.
Ale bylo zajímavé ji přečíst, taková sonda do trochu jiného světa.
Wicca does not appeal to me as my own path, though there are some useful tidbits in any system that can be used/adapted for personal use.
Definitely won't be looking into Wicca.
The words of people who have had relatively easy lives and don't know the way the exploited and oppressed live.
Rather like the cries of "peaceful protest" from rich-living Westerners whose lifestyle requires the theft of resources, genocide, and exploitation of people of color and the environment.
Every action we take, no matter what it is, will have effects on people and beings we won't be aware of.
While I like the workbook format, there are better authors who've done similar things.
Some of the older names in the industry need to send out revised editions, and Buckland's book could benefit from that, to get rid of a number of problems it has: 1.
Pagan of any kind does not necessarily need to inherently mean anti-Christian, first off, and second: younger people absorbing are being given excuses to pick fights with people over it.
If Buckland and authors like him taught me anything, it was to use my religion as a platform to be a smug jerk.2.
Religion (to me) is your own personal relationship with the Divine and who can tell you what is and is not the appropriate way to have this relationship?
Use the information Buckland provides, but if something does not feel right, alter the advice given to fit you and your relationship.
With that said, I still think this is a good starter book and has lots of information in it for the novice.
I've been much happier in my relationship with the Divine since I stopped labeling myself as a particular religion with guidelines.
Ah, "Uncle Bucky's Big Blue Book."Credit where credit is due, Buckland did a lot to promote Wicca and its practitioners as normal people--who just happen to get naked in a group about eight times a year, chant, sing, dance, and give praise to the Old Gods.While I found some of the information useful when I was starting out, even in the beginning, there were things that just had me raising my eyebrow and making WTF faces at the book.
This book is geared more towards people who want to practice Gardnerian or Alexandrian style Craft.
The author (Buckland) interchanges the terms Wicca and Witchcraft, insisting they are one in the same.
His practices insist on things that make people like me uncomfortable (Insists upon practicing skyclad (nude) to a creepy level, insists on letting some random person drag a sharp knife across your naked body as part of some absurd ritual, etc)Authors like this made it very difficult for me to start practicing witchcraft, and they had me believing I had to follow a strict tradition.
Thankfully research led me to realize I don't have to practice the way someone else says.If you are interested in starting witchcraft, or Wicca, I recommend a different author.
Refered to in my house as, "Uncle Bucky's big blue book of Witchcraft" it is the best DIY of pagan basics.
A great first step book to pick-up paired with Cunningham's "Wicca for the Solitary Practitioner" and you get 95% of what most first degree classes would teach in person.I still refer back to it when doing some of those basics that one is not often called on to do.
I haven't had to do that for years, lets see what Uncle Bucky says...)Completely recomended
Almost a "workbook" of the witch, this book was a at times an interesting starting point for me, in that it brought up interesting questions from seemingly "just fun" ideas.
Asking you what your best Wiccan workroom would look like really seems like a fun little diversion, but it sparks you into thinking about what you find more important than other facets, for example.Then the more in-depth rituals popped in, which made me notice how....
And there's a whole lot of "do it this way, as this is the only correct way" which rubbed me a bit wrong.It's not a great book, but it does have some thought-provoking bits for the new witch and old pagan alike.
It was the beginning and the first milestone of my pagan practise that I recognised as such consciously.Gradually, I grew more and more sceptical, as this book and especially it's Czech translation which I originally used is full of mistakes, misconcepts, over-simplifications and stuff that is outright ludicrous.
And though a but funny in retrospect, this book was back in it's days (late 90's for me) a solid enough basis for my path.
Though I abandonded the book, I never abandoned the path, and I still recognize it as something that at a certain point was valid, and even crucial to my practise.
This book is far more about ritual than actual spirituality (hence the title).
I'm a little suspect of some of the rituals and information here; I like to see authors cite sources, but I didn't see that happening here.
I don't think this is a book for everyone's (anyone's?) bookshelves.
I found little explanation as to the importance to or the spiritual factors behind the rituals, which is why I found it so disappointing.
I'm more about having a spiritual connectivity to my rituals, and that was missing here.
I think this is one book you could skip and not like you've missed out.
Some interesting information, especially in the divination and herbal categories, but this book felt overwhelmingly like an ego inflaming project.
All quotes meant to "reinforce" particular lessons were the author's own, from previous writings, articles or interviews.
Read very much like an egocentric endeavor, and quite closeminded.
While attempts were occasionally made to seem like information was being given as "general" felt very much as if the writer was trying to convey that his way was the only way to do things.
Rituals also bordered a very dark line.
Read with an open mind and a grain of salt.
This book was my introduction to Wicca.
Luckily I quickly followed up with other books.
Stuck with this alone, you won't be good very far or deep into the spiritual side of the religion.
But it once represented a whole new world and way of thinking for me.Today there really are a lot (read, too many) more up to date books for this to be anyone's introductory text.
But I must say far too few modern books contain instructions for fitting metal mixing bowls with horns and strapping it on your head.
So read the "Blue book", if only to keep this ancient tradition alive.
In my continuing trek through studying various belief systems, I wanted to familiarize myself with Wicca (the "old" faith or however they refer to themselves).
I would have been able to give this a much fairer appraisal had the "history" actually had some historical grounding.
I found myself continually banging my head against a wall at his claims.
I am more looking forward to reading Cunningham's book on Wicca, since, in comparison to Buckland, he apparently leaves behind the outdated (and wildly innacurate) historical claims about Wicca and witch burnings and instead focuses on the modern constructs of the Wiccan belief systems.
A lot of people seem to think this is a fantastic book, and if it works for them, great, but it definitely didn't work for me.
Cunningham says in his books, that if it feels right it probably is, and nothing in the 'big blue book' felt right to me at all.
I'm sure Mr. Buckland is a nice person to meet, but I spent the majority of the book wondering if he was just using Paganism as an excuse to get laid.
Too stuffy, too ceremonial, and completely unrealistic, I wouldn't recommend this book unless you enjoy overcomplicating your magic.
A friend of mine calls this book, "Ray Buckland's Big Blue Book of S---." That's about the size of it.
