https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3313418-extreme-measures
This wasn’t a normal Mitch Rapp outing in that the action took a back seat for the majority of the novel and placed more focus on the battle that he and the CIA have on convincing the politicians that there methods shouldn’t be questioned as they get results and that people who aim to blow people up shouldn’t really have human rights similar to a normal American citizen.
To be honest, I wasn’t expecting where the last 20% of this book was going and it was a nice change of pace but due to where it happened in the book meant it was never going to be resolved in this outing and has rolled into the next novel.
This one is a page turner. It is hard to put down. A third terrorist cell is on its way to the US. Can Rapp and Nash intercept them or will the senate judiciary committee chairman have her way and toss our heroes in the clink, for using extreme measures? This may help explain the somber look on Obama's face when he exited his first briefing with the president. He needs our prayer because while the book is fiction, the issues are not.
This novel is a thinly veiled argument for the necessity of torturing prisoners, which made the book difficult for me to read.
He asks the question that would divide opinion: If torture would reveal secrets that would prevent the deaths of innocents, like children, would you permit it?
If torture would have prevented 911, would you have permitted it, or would you be willing to let 2000 innocents die for the sake of a terrorist's Geneva Convention rights?
But we're not God. We only sometimes act like Him.Torture and terror are an unfortunate reality of the world we now find ourselves in.
It's only the second of his books I've read, both being "Mitch Rapp" stories.
I enjoyed this one and I'm sure for those who have read many of Flynns books starring Mitch Rapp, this one follows along a similar pattern.
Well, no political correctness in Flynn's book.
The thrill in this story of one man's fight against political correctness albeit through "extreme measures" gives one satisfaction that backs are being guarded.
I've not read all that many books dealing with the subject of terrorism and counterterrorism but I think Vince Flynn has this subject down pat.
Read this, you'll enjoy it.
He's the literary equivalent to Jack Bauer - he does the dirty work that no one wants to acknowledge but it's to protect us all.While Rapp is a prominent character in this book, the focus is on Mike Nash.
They get a great lead but are stopped from pursuing it when a Senator decides to put the CIA on trial, so to speak, for "enhanced" interrogations.Flynn makes many points about political correctness, government policies and politicians all standing in the way of the front line people who are trying to keep the rest of the citizens safe.
Fox News fan fiction.
We are treated to several long speeches from characters explaining the virtues of "enhanced interrogation" and a short story about a schoolyard fight as an analog for the justified use of violence.
At one point Rapp even says something like "your mom doesn't understand because she's a woman.
But I'm a man so I know what it takes!" Ha!It was interesting to have the perspective of the terrorists thrown in, but the writing for them was pretty unbelievable.
Their motivations were flat as were their personalities.
I enjoy Flynn's CIA/terrorist novels.
The hero continues to be Mitch Rapp, who works in a clandestine group inside the CIA.
Liberal politicians and bureaucrats concerned about human rights and dignity are out to hinder/stop the clandestine group from doing its job their "unlawful" way to protect the US from terrorists.
A Nancy Pelosi seems-alike character is a key Senator trying to get Mitch and crew.
The Islamic terrorist cells is well trained and hell bent to wrac havoc on a US city.
But, I love the kick ass, whatever it takes, do it now, and make them pay main character.
His character, Mitch Rapp, continues to make the reader want a man like him in our covert operations.Mitch again breaks all the rules, and you know you love him for it.
He also must walk a fine line because he does need their assistance to continue his search for this third cell of terrorists.Mitch does manage to win the day, but is he too late to prevent an attack on the nation's capitol?An exciting read that will keep you turning pages and wondering what will happen next, and maybe best of all, the ending leaves you wanting more and, as always, Flynn sets in up for Rapp's next assignment.
In a world full of dime-a-dozen thriller writers who specialize in cardboard characters, cheesy dialogue, over-the-top action and plot choices that are beyond ridiculous, Vince Flynn reminds me once again that it's entirely possible to write (or read) a thriller without turning off one's brain first.
There are no stupid villains who eschew the easy kill so that they can leave the hero in some convoluted predicament from which he will inevitably escape because no one sticks around and bothers to ensure that he actually, you know, dies.
Let's just say that it's a good thing that Mitch Rapp is around.
Vince Flynn’s Extreme Measures, his latest addition to a prolific collection of Spy Thriller novels, is not a bad read, but it is not his best.
Based on the five Flynn novels I have read to date I have arrived upon a working hypothesis for choosing the best books from his collection.
Flynn liberally uses the working man’s expletive (the f-bomb) in his novels, as an expletive.
The obligatory Flynn torture, or Extreme Measures, inclusion is also considerably more disturbing in this novel as, in one instance, it occurs at the hands of the bad guys and is much more graphic and disfiguring.
This latest thriller features Mitch Rapp and Mike Nash fighting one more battle against terrorism.This is a very addictive series that captures the secretive world of the fearless men and women risking their lives in covert operations hidden from the scrutiny of their political leaders.
This story starts with the CIA detecting and intercepting two terrorist cells, a third is rumoured to be still at large.Rapp and Nash have to think on their feet and have to be at their fighting best; unfortunately this does not go well with their political leaders who wish to have them put on a short leash.But one afternoon everything changes…...
Current events thriller Mitch Rapp is a continuing character in the Vince Flynn series.
Lead characters such as Mitch Rapp and Mike Nash are America's version of James Bond only better.
I vote for Mitch Rapp and the extreme measures over terrorists any day.
Several reviews were not happy that the author upped the part Mike Nash played in the book, but even though this was my first Mitch Rapp book, I was clear - he is the hero sort of Lone Ranger and Tonto (with a family) style.
Vince Flynn obviously seeks to prove a point with Extreme Measures, the latest entry in his thoroughly enjoyable Mitch Rapp series.
This book explores the politics of violence related to terrorism and our country's response to terrorism, yet relies more on personal angst and interpersonal dialogue of the characters and less on action than his previous Rapp stories.
Certainly, we have mixed emotions in this country - and sometimes short-lived emotions - about the violence of terrorism and our nation's response to terrorism.
That's the plot of Extreme Measures; too bad Flynn didn't trade some of the angst for more action.
This is a different conflict that is not going to end with an armistice or surrender.
Besides asking them why they read the second book, I might ask "Aren't rules of engagement something that is agreed upon by all participants?"In this episode, the violence of war is brought back to the power center.
Also, our Vietnam war ended mainly because of conscription putting more citizen skin in the game.
Just some of my relections, former Sgt. Us Army 1965-1968 (I acknowledge my bias having served under Lyndon Johnson who ran as "the Peace President" in the 1964 election, and helped destroy the center of the Democratic Party)
Extremely Silly"Team America: World Police" had more realistic baddies than this Mitch Rapp whack-a-thon.
It is acted by puppets.)Though slightly more entertaining than picking my nose while stuck in traffic, Extreme Measures can't really be called a novel.
It's polemic, pushing the idea that the CIA should be allowed to do anything it wants, wherever it wants because America's enemies are really, really bad guys.
Critical Mick says: as a spy novel, Extreme Measures is about as satisfying as getting toenails ripped out by Mitch Rapp.
Even though Extreme Measures focuses on Mitch Rapp's War on Terror like in the previous installments, this one focuses more on the Political aspects minus Rapp being in the field beating up the bad guys.Mitch Rapp joins forces with friend, colleague, and new-comer to the series Mike Nash, an Ex-Marine and elite operative.
Rapp goes to extreme measures (hence the title) to get information out of the other 2 terrorist cells, whilst other parties of the US Government don't approve of Rapp's methods of interrogation.The only thing that's preventing me from giving this entry 5 stars is I feel it didn't have enough of Rapp in it, or Kennedy.
Entirely predictable Vince Flynn novel which involves a terrorist raid on America and the efforts of Rapp to make the stupid politicians understand that extreme measures to stop terrorists were necessary to save human life.
As a thriller this is clearly not one of FLynn's gestHowever, FLynn's efforts to show how stupid politicians are that do not understand what the efforts of our special policmen and CIA are doing to thwart terrorism and that sometimes you have to resort to extreme measures to get the terrorists to talk just takes up too much of the story.
Vince Flynn does it again, or, rather, his creation, Mitch Rapp does.
Flynn always manages to create credible terrorists, whose twisted sense of revenge, heroism and martyrdom, leads them into ever more complicated attempts to damage the US or the Great Satan that they term that country.
As usual there are politicians and others, some of them members of the military, who wish to curtail Rapp's activities.
In this novel they e3ven bring him before a Judicial Inquiry, but this only serves to allow the terrorists to be at least partially successful, before Rapp, and his assistant, Mike Nash, get down to sorting things out.
Three and a half stars. Less action than previous installments. Introduces new character, Mike Nash. Spends too much time on Mike's domestic issues, always my least favorite part of a Flynn novel. Rapp spends most of the book under investigation. Heats up at the end to segue into next book .
And, man, is it ever a blast to plow through these novels.Extreme Measures tosses Mitch into an impending international incident revolving around the liberal use of "enhanced interrogation" techniques (read: mild torture) while trying to uncover a terrorist plot which may be on the verge of harming the United States.
Toss it all in the mix with good old Mitch Rapp and sit back and enjoy the fireworks.I noticed that much of Flynn's typical action scenes took a backseat to more of a courtroom drama scenario in this go-around.
REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK, NOVEMBER 28, 2015Narrator: George GuidallThis installment kept me up till 3am and as soon as it ended, I went straight to the next book, Pursuit of Honor, which picks up where Extreme Measures leaves off.There were times when I felt like I was following an 80s primetime soap called 'CIA' but that's not a complaint, just something I noted as it wasn't all just terrorists or Rapp falling for another stupid cow.
I wish all the politicking were left to Irene and Rapp let loose to go hunting.Anyway, I enjoyed this installment very much, despite the less-than-riveting portions dedicated to the terrorist's prep work.The Narration: In the first two Rapp books, I thought Guidall's voice too old for a young Mitch Rapp.
If a character holds a particular political view then they need to behave in that way and not be manhandled by the author in an attempt to cater to the audience.
Vince Flynn is comfortable letting his characters be themselves.Overall, this is still a good guys trying to stop the bad guys kind of novel, and just what you should expect from a Vince Flynn novel this far through the series.
Mitch Rapp has a big role in this one but really it tends to be more from the point of view of his protege, Mike Nash and his attempt to balance his family life with his extremely demanding job.
It had more propaganda supporting torture, or as Mitch & Dick Cheney would put it, "enhanced interrogation methods," or "extreme measures," to pry information from suspected terrorists than Flynn's previous works.
I do hope the terrorists aren't reading Flynn's books, since some of his plots seem plausible and may give them ideas in case they haven't been alert or serious enough to come up with them on their own.
As mentioned by another reviewer, the spelling & grammatical errors & dropped out words are more than annoying, especially when the action gets as slow & pedantic as Mitch's Senate testimony, or the descriptions of the terrorists' training.
This is a story about democracy and party politics and an impending terrorist attack on US soil.
But as the book continues and the attacks on US soil begin, the politicians are finding out that to protect a democracy extreme measures are needed to defend any constitution /nation from those whose interests would otherwise be protected and could not be stopped.
A very US black and white kind of novel in which the black deeds of the CIA are okay-ed and the politician and their party politics are shown to be a hindrance in the fight against terrorism.
I must remember that the mark of the politico-military potboiler is a lurid depiction of the U.S. capitol on the dust jacket, generally dominated by other, enormous, capitals conveying the author's name.
Predictable.The characters were shallow,the story disjointed.
Lots of boring dialouges about the government's incompetence.
The problem came as I closed in on the ending and couldn't put it down.It is the best job Flynn has done in his first 9 books in fleshing out characters and really laying out directly conflicting views of extremist Islam and politics.
I would highly recommend this book as a guide to understanding the different views from conservative to liberal to extremist Islam to actual Islamic attitudes to the complacent.The book is also laid out and ended in a way that is perfect in the book market being what it is today.This book is excellent.
This is the ninth book in the Mitch Rapp series.
This book is a little more focused on the political side of the story rather than the hard-core action and suspense from earlier books, although it does contain some of both and has a really explosive ending.
The book presents timely and relevant issues that should scare the crap out of people if there is any truth to them.
Vince Flynn manages to raise these issues without being preachy and without losing the appeal of his typical plots.
I really enjoyed this book, particularly the inclusion of both Mitch Rapp and Mike Nash as central characters.
The plot of EXTREME MEASURES is Mitch and Mike Nash collaborating to extract information from two terrorist leaders.
Mitch and Mike fear there is a third cell trying to wreak havoc on American soil.
Their goal is to stop the cell before it can reach the designated target, but in the mid way Mitch Rapp's role becomes quite limited and story deviated from the thriller to Nash's family issues, changing diapers, schooling issues, or Rapp's accusations or hearing.In the last 100 pages it pick up pace, u ll feel like you are reading something thrilling and ended satisfactorily.
This is book 11 in this series, and, frankly, the story line seems like a regurgitation of several parts of previous books in the series. This would be a great book, if it was book 3 or 4, but its the same old story about interdepartmental conflicts, the average person not understanding what it takes to fight terrorism, and a ticking-bomb-like scenario. Again, it's a fine read...unless you've read the previous 10 books in the series (IMHO).
Interesting, but had to put it aside for a bit because of prolonged torture sequences...
