https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107195.I_Kissed_Dating_Goodbye
I'm not proud of how it ended, but it needed to.This book fell into the midst of that dynamic in my life, and it rocked me.
In many ways, I needed this book then.
Would I tell someone else that "You should read this in order to know how God wants us to deal with dating, relationships, and the whole nine yards?"It's doubtful.It helped me, but it also contributed to and suggested a rigidity of interaction and relationship that eventually had to be cast aside in order for me to develop relationship and fall in love with the woman who would become my life.
I am a 17 year old christian teenage girl who has lived her relationship life according to this book and has no regrets.
I have healthy friendships with a lot of guys but--amazingly enough--not a single boyfriend.
Actually, my life has been great.
The whole point of the book is that there is a season for everything: a season for investing in friendships, and a season for dating/courting for the purpose of marriage.
This has worked just fine for all the people around me (most singles in my church don't practice dating either), and there has been no lack of wonderful marriages.
I'm not even boy crazy, and I disliked this book.
I feel like this book is a bit dangerous for homeschool girls like me to read, it's 2018 now, and yet girls my age still expect guys to seek them out like snow white, and sweep them off their feet.Wake up.
Please don't just expect the right guy to stumble across you knitting on your front porch one day, this isn't a hallmark movie.
I'm not perfect.You're not perfect.It's not really fair to expect the right guy to be perfect.
Some will cringe in reading this ideology for the first time, but when contimplating how to protect your own holiness and the purity of others, it makes more sense.
Accountability and NOT acting on feelings or immature desires is beneficial in ANY relationship, particularly towards the opposite sex.
The Bible does not say, "THOU SHALT NOT DATE" but it does call us to holiness and to protect the purity of others.
This is a practical book to present and different approach to developing godly relationships that may lead to marriage based on Scriptural truths.BTW - I've noticed that SOMETIMES the people who hate this book are also people who are a bit boy or girl "crazy" and will attack it as "stupid" or "unbiblical".
Reorder your romantic life in the light of God's Word and find more fulfillment than a date could ever give – a life of sincere love, true purity, and purposeful singleness.” That is the promise and the premise behind Joshua Harris' new book I Kissed Dating Goodbye.
Dating is short-term, it can be self-centered, and it can lead someone to fall away from God. Harris' solution is to avoid committing to one person until you are ready to marry.
There is no set of rules or philosophies that one can apply to Christian premarital romance (nor any kind of romance, nor any kind of relationship, for that matter), and I believe that, unfortunately, Harris' ideas are a contribution to a philosophy that has caused much pain and cynicism in young single Christian circles (I can say this from experience).In concurrence with Harris' ideas, many of our parents, with the best intentions, told us pubescent, hormonal Christians that we should wait for "God to bring the right one"; that "God has designed someone just for you".
"A relationship based solely on physical attraction and romantic feelings will last only as long as the feelings last.By inflating the importance of feelings, we neglect the impt of putting love in action. When we evaluate the quality of our love for someone else simply by our own emotional fulfillment, we are being selfish.Feelings governed them, and finally, when the feelings ended, so did their relationship."  I admit I didn't agree with everything that's written on this book. It was a bit j
"A relationship based solely on physical attraction and romantic feelings will last only as long as the feelings last.By inflating the importance of feelings, we neglect the impt of putting love in action.
When we evaluate the quality of our love for someone else simply by our own emotional fulfillment, we are being selfish.Feelings governed them, and finally, when the feelings ended, so did their relationship."
There were talks of impurity which we might all agree that society doesn't see important in relationship anymore.
"Remember you don't have to prove them wrong to do what you know is right.
Don't try to argue with them to prove a point."
I was forced to read this book by the female youth leader in a youth group I was a part of, along with all the other guys. Some of us kissed dating goodbye, others of us kissed youth group goodbye.
Bull honkey. This philosophy destroys intimacy and feeds the guilt culture that is overly a part of modern Christian families. Zero stars.

It is impossible to avoid pain in life, and shielding yourself from "getting hurt" by romantic relationships is only going to increase your fear of the world.I'm going to try to word this in a way that makes sense, but which sounds better to you...experiencing love as a young teen and going through all the sweet and difficult times but you grow and learn from it anyway, or being an adult who has never done anything like that court someone with the intention of marriage, but nothing turned out like you thought it would and you just broke down and gave up?
At the time the idea of kissing dating goodbye and doing it in the name of God seemed like a grand idea.
I think it was largely because I had no dates to kiss goodbye, so it gave me some noble reason to beyond the fact that girls didn't like me and the fact that despite my liking them I was terrified of them.
If would feel guilty if I just liked a girl.
I think this book is good for high school kids, but it's probably not very practical once you get older.
You just got out of a bad relationship, and you don't want to be hurt again.
Not dating sounds like a great idea.2.
You just haven't felt comfortable with dating, and you're looking for alternatives.3.
You're ina great dating relationship, and you're curious why anyone would choose not to date.This book is full of wonderful suggestions such as dating your wife or husband once you are married and many others.
I was driving and listening to him talk about the pitfalls of modern dating.
I was so captivated by his message, that I sat in the car listening long after I arrived at my destination.
I went and purchased this book the next day.After the first chapter, I put it down.
It was a lot to take in for an ex-feminist, control freak like me.
I talked to my dad about it and decided to give the book a chance.
I had to stuggle to read this book without rolling my eyes.
He tells it like it is.This book is wonderful.
I thought the book title was preaching to the choir at & before the time I read it--I didn't care for the dating scene & still don't, but I like having some purpose to being single, rather than just accepting it as an accidental fate.Josh Harris does a good job writing the book, & I feel bad that I didn't love it like so many people who reviewed it did.It seemed odd that the premise of the book is "dating is stupid; but don't quit dating just b/c it's stupid, quit b/c there's something better out there called 'courtship'." Well first of all, to me, if I want to quit doing something b/c it's stupid, that's a good enough reason to quit!
I enjoyed it a second time around.Quotes from the BookBy inflating the importance of feelings, we neglect the importance of putting love into action.Christ taught that love is not for the fulfillment of self but for the good of others and the glory of God. True love is selfless.
It gives; it sacrifices; it dies to its own needs.Christ also showed that true love is not measured or governed by feeling.But He laid His feelings before the Father, giving Himself over to the Father's will.
Jesus' feelings were not the test of His love, nor were they His master.True purity, however, is a direction, a persistent, determined pursuit of righteousness.
The title of this book is different, which is why I picked it up in the first place. The book isn't so much about giving up dating as the title implies, it's more about not dating seriously until you are ready to get married, and to use the time gaining a strong relationships with good friends and especially with Heavenly Father. The author, Joshua Harris, really drives home the idea that singleness is not something to dread, but to realize it as a gift.
I really didn't appreciate this book. I felt it did more to exacerbate the complicated terrain of navigating adolescence as a Christian than it helped. I could also go into the theological problems a book like this presents to evangelical America, but I won't bother.
Apparently this makes them feel better because they can pretend they didn't want to date anyway (think Aesop's "sour grapes" fable) and kissed it goodbye.It always fascinates me how many Christians will promote biblical this and that even though something is nowhere to be found in the bible.
Likewise, Josh Harris wants to promote the "biblical way to find a spouse- courtship".
One girl in the bible was raped and her dad chose to make peace with the rapist's family by marrying her to her rapist, saying all was made right by that.
I'm a firm believer that there is no cookie-cutter way of dating. Everyone's story is different, yet, this book came off as if it is the ONLY way to do things. I'm not saying that the book is completely wrong, it brings up a few good points, but ultimately...I don't know that any book can tell you how to date or how to live.
This book was on the unpopular list, probably because people couldn't imagine life with restrictions on dating or whatever. I haven't read it in a while because my mom bought it and where she put it I don't know, but I love it, so there. I think everyone should read it and I think that the author was very brave to address such an issue.
I know a lot of people hate this book now, but I don't. I agree with quite a bit of it, actually.On the subject of emotional purity, though...I'm not sure what to think about all that. You guys?
I did not appreciate it for the most part.But here’s something else: I read that book and proceeded to date in high school.
I only dated guys who could, yes, be potential marriage partners—God-loving, hilarious, attractive, intelligent guys—but I did it because first and foremost we were friends and second: it was fun!
I have no “permanent scars” on my heart from the guys I dated, I am not petrified of marriage or sex, and I am not a slut.
But does he honestly think that people can’t get their hearts broken in other relationships besides dating?
However, for those who are college aged and higher, it's method of finding a spouse I find to be an exercise in immaturity and for those who are not in a high-volume, high opportunity situation (like college is), you may find yourself incredibly lonely practicing these concepts.
I call it an exercise in immaturity because by avoiding dating altogether, you aren't really learning and practicing setting boundaries with the opposite sex and if you find your spouse in college (high volume, high opportunity setting) then you may not need them.
I wanted to throw this book out of my car while driving at a neurotic speed.
I rolled my eyes through the whole thing, and even now as im writing this review...Seriously joshua harris??
I mean SERIOUSLY??
I read this whole book.
Oh yes i did.
And i could have said in two sentences what it took him 200 and something pages to write!
1. Women lock yourselves in the house, because you cant discern who to and not to date.
2. Put on a diaper and ask your daddy to start spoon feeding you again cause you cant do anything without him.
BAM theres your book joshey
I now view every woman as another mans future wife. I will treat every woman with respect. I am growing in my faith and becoming the future husband and father i was meant to be.
The reason why he decided to choose this path is that he believes that this is what the Lord wanted him to do- to develop intimacy with God and to value relationships with the people surrounding him (not leading them to something that will become confusing and messy, but taking care of them like brothers and sisters).
While being single, he wanted to grow deeper in his relationship with God; exploring and obeying where The Lord has placed him to go, to reach out, and to serve.Its a book about finding true love in Christ first before we will find true love in other :) indeed there is no greater love than what Jesus done for us ^_^
Joshua Harris has such a straightforward way of showing you why he believes Dating can lead people astray and how you can live above that lifestyle.
Each chapter had me convinced that Joshua Harris was onto something golden, something that I wanted to be a part of, this whole non-dating revolution.
I decided to reread this book because I am entering a new stage in my life and even though I have been a non-dater for years now I thought that it might be a good idea to take a refresher course on what I believed so that I could easily answer any questions that came my way.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
It's simply-like the book says- putting into words a new attitude towards romance and relationships, one that honors God and follows biblical standards.
I especially love a quote from one chapter that talks about love:“The world takes us to a silver screen on which flickering images of passion and romance play, and as we watch, the world says, “This is love.” God takes us to the foot of a tree on which a naked and bloodied man hangs and says, “This is love.”It's also nice to find a book on the subject that both guys and girls can benefit from.
I would definitely recommend this book to any young person 13+ seeking a God-honoring alternative to the world's typical attitude on dating and romance.
I've been having a really hard time interpretting what the Word states about relationships, sex before marraige, and dating. I, as a christian, feel its necessary not only to abide by the law of God, but to understand to gift of pleasure and love and why it is a godly experience if patience allows me to wait until marraige. Joshua Harris is a great author, very straight-forward and easy to understand. I highly recommend all of his books!
