https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153479.The_Quest_for_Christa_T_
From her childhood memories, written in the difficult 1970s, and told through three simultaneous time prisms, I moved on to Der geteilte Himmel, her early novel, conceived during the odd German era when her state built a wall to lock in its citizens while it tried to convince them that they lived in a perfect utopia.
Her account of the slow death of her childhood friend and namesake is the natural bridge between the young idealist and the sad, disillusioned later Christa Wolf.
It bent my mind over how hard it can be to about asking the right questions to elucidate another person’s “true” nature.Why was the narrator drawn to Christa soon after she arrived as a stranger at her rural grammar school in Germany during the last year of the war?
…She didn’t attempt to escape from it all, as many people were starting to do in those years.But she also lost the capacity to live in a state of rapture.
Worse than actual events was the fact that not even the horror itself could surprise one now. Nothing new under this sun, only the end, as long as it lasts. And the certainty: that it had to come. Politics is the first we learn of other countries and the last about our own. Proceed with caution. Abandon hope, all ye who enter here. Here, there be monsters. We can display the lines along the filled up maps all we like, but there's a history of interlocking hegemonies to be resolved, some of them
What I'm trying to do is reconcile the facts of the work with my implicit recognition, this super subtle heap of prose banned by East Germany before the fall of the Berlin Wall and the number of times I caught myself reading my self.
Sure, it's all fun and games and White People Diseases, the mental segueing nicely into the Sontag when neurosis sets back to second place in the wake of leukemia, and the fact that the domestic reality was even achievable means one is physically situated well enough to let the political climate wash on over.
So it is like reading an unforgettable novel from a blank page.Christa Wolf was an East German writer at the time when East Germany was still East Germany: communist, totalitarian and where the State is supreme above all else.
An example is inevitable, otherwise no one will understand what is being stated here:"She (Christa Wolf) believed that you must work at your past as you work at your future; I find this in notes she made on books she'd read.
Diese Neigung zur sozialistischen Idee hat mir auch die Lust auf ihre Bücher verleidet.
"Nachdenken über Christa T." hat mich in einer Weise berührt, wie ich es zuvor nicht erwartet hatte.
Der Lebensweg ihrer Freundin, den die Erzählerin zu rekonstruieren versucht, erscheint recht unspektakulär.
Und doch entwickelt der Versuch sich dem ganzen Menschen Christa T.
Je schärfer der Blick auf die Verstorbene gerichtet wird, um so ungenauer erscheint ihr Bild.
Denn die Fragen, die sich die Erzählerin über das Leben ihrer Freundin stellt, sind von zeitloser Art und vermögen auch heutige Leser direkt anzusprechen.
Thus, we find a story of an ordinary woman who survived the war and later sought after education, and necessarily fell and fell out of loves, went for the subsequent marriage and kids, nurtured the enduring friendships, and finally fell a victim to leukemia and died.The Second LayerIt is a story of a person who tried "to become oneself, with all one's strength." It is a story of a person who wanted to mark her identity as an unique individual in the world.
The greatest book ever written!
Let me repeat: The greatest book ever written!
If you are someone I care about a lot, you will most likely get this as a Christmas gift.Also, it requires a lot of concentration and the ability to allow the complexities of the writing style to subdue you.
Don't ask questions like...
This book is about that weird girl on the side that grew up into a woman who sought to live genuinely, express honestly, and feel openly.
There's a reason why this book was banned for so many years.
Auch wenn einzelne Motive in Nachdenken auf das ganz große Buch voraus weisen, das sonst vielleicht nie entstanden wäre, ist mir in diesen Momentaufnahmen zu viel angedeutet, hingehuscht, dahergenuschelt oder von mir aus auch geraunt, damit es ein wenig poetischer klingt.Der Plot passt auf den sprichwörtlichen Bierdeckel, attraktive Frau, die zu viel von sich und vom Leben erwartet hat, ist mit 35 an Leukämie gestorben.
Still, I am in two minds about it: taking this as a novel written in 1968 by a young author living in East Germany, in what was then The German Democratic Republic (GDR) or reading it independently from this particular context like a work of literature.
In general terms, the novel is a coming of age story, painting a detailed portrait of a young woman, Christa T., as compiled from letters, diaries and other papers by a lifelong friend of the same age group.
It turns out Ferrante translates Wolf's books into Italian, and admires her greatly.
This is one of those books that lends itself to a slow intaking of, to reading a few pages a day, so as to have room to think about what is said and perhaps more crucially, what isn't said.
At least I know now that if I read anything else by Christa Wolf (and I would like to, soon) I should buy a used copy, so that I have the time and space to digest what I'm reading, to underline and ponder at will.
Christa Wolf inizia a scriverlo a metà degli anni ’60, in un periodo in cui le linee del partito socialista sulla produzione letteraria si facevano sempre più politiche e lasciavano sempre meno spazio all’individualità dell’autore e alla varietà dei personaggi.
E così Christa Wolf inizia a chiedersi se all’interno della DDR vi fosse veramente spazio per lo sviluppo autonomo della persona o se gli individui fossero sì liberi, ma solo in quegli ambiti approvati dal socialismo.
Kann man aber leben, wenn ganze Teile nicht mittun?
This is a difficult book to describe.
The author is writing about the life of a woman she knew who is destroyed by life under the communist regime in East Germany.
The relationship between the author and the title character is in itself interesting.
She is trying to keep the memory of Christa alive, and yet the author seems to say at times that she doesn't know if she even really knew Christa.
Wolf's gifts for language, imagery, and insight are stunning.
This is one of the best books I've ever read.
Christa Wolf is an East German author (when there still was an East germany.) Her books are complex and layered. Once I read this one I hungered for more of her. In this one she travels with her family while working on research, and discovers things about her past groewing up in Hitler's Germany, and her relationship with her daughter.
This is a strange book that touched me in a strange way on multiple levels. It's simplistic and complex at the same time, easy and complicated, poetic and straight-forward. It's one of the books which make you think deeply, and then leave you with a smile although your not sure about what.
One of the best books I've ever read. It's haunted me for years.
She also frequently uses German Dialect for whole segments.It's further hard to understand because she has a lot of German literary references, historical references (post WW2 and onwards), and the whole thing really takes place in the DDR (and the last few years of the Third Reich).
I suppose because she posits a more humanistic question as to what it is like to be a woman in the DDR - growing up, school life, university, pregnancy and marriage are all topics she hits on.
) is really the author's homage to her friend, Christa T., who died fairly young.
The story deals with memories, and how the living need to remember individuals who have died.
This is the time at which to think more of her, to think her further, to let her live and grow older as other people do." "Useless to pretend it's for her sake.
So we should be certain of one thing: that it's for our sake.
Because it seems that we need her."
Because it seems that we need her."
One of my favorite books.
One that I feel that I will need to reread a few more times in my life.This book is difficult to describe.
Personally, I found it to be more of a book of self exploration than anything else.
It is hard for a novel written in the 1960's in Germany not to have them.
However it is easy to over come the politics of the time and apply them to the modern world around you.
The questions are relatively ambiguous making the novel and it's quest timeless.
One of the greatest books about the struggle of an individual within Western modern/postmodern society that I have ever read.
Sure, it could be read as a book about the DDR, about totalitarism.
But I think it is more than a historical document about East Germany.
For me, is about the impossibility to fully understand another human being, to understand Christa T.
There is a lot to find here about the difficult and sad parts of being human.
And the exemplary character, the epitome of modern humanity is a woman - which pleases me immensely, because it is so rare
The best book I've read in too long.
Lyrical, utterly truthful in that sense of revealed truth given to you as a gift from a writer you could have just as well missed.
And then the other angle doesn't concern me either, the literary critical/theoretical one that lumps Wolf (or at least this novel) with the likes of Robbe-Grillet and other "metafiction" writers.
For me, she is precise and watchful, truthful to a hurt, and aware of every motion of desire, memory, longing, and the minutest impulses that make up a self.
I liked this. A study of how oppressive societies suffocate creative/alternative minds, Christa T. was never content with the life that was expected of her. The non-narrative structure is a bit difficult to follow, but the message makes itself clear. The translation is also quite excellent.
4.5 starsAvailable on Openlibrary.
Demanding. Needs space to be read and appreciated fully; a quiet week with no social engagements.
Less from fear, although many people were frightened, than from insecurity.
It's simply so.For the new world that we were making and making unassailable -- even if it meant building ourselves into the foundations of it -- that world really did exist.
Among the alternatives offered there isn't a single one that's worth a node in its direction...What she wished for more intensely than anything, and I'm speaking now of Christa T., was the coming of our world; and she had precisely the kind of imagination one needs for a real understanding of it.
Whatever they may say, the new world of people without imagination gives me the shudders.
We must do something to make life worth living for all people.
differs significantly from other books I have read in two respects: 1) it is set in postwar East Germany, about which I know relatively little; 2) it is narrated in a psychological mode that I sometimes find hard to follow --especially as I read it in translation.The book tells you, at the outset, what it seeks to be about: the attempt to be oneself.
It then continues through the turmoil of postwar East Germany, ending the narration in 1962, just after the erection of the Berlin Wall starts to take place.
A friend of Christa T.
seeks to discover who Christa was, after her death at ~35 of leukemia.
This book is set during and after WW2, and the war certainly impacts the people in this story, but as a setting against which the private stories of the central characters take place.
Christa T.
This story is about a smaller, more universal story about death and what life means when it ends ‘prematurely’, perhaps unfulfilled or incomplete.
"This breathlessness, or this inability to draw a deep breath. As if whole areas of the lungs have been out of action for an eternity. When that is so, can one go on living ?""Coldness in everything. It comes from a long way off; it gets into everything. One must get out of the way before it reaches the core. If it does that, one won’t feel even the coldness any more. Do you see what I mean ?"
Bellísimo y triste. Es el intento de esbozar el perfil de una mujer que vivió y murió, con el material que ofrecen los recuerdos y los escritos. No tengo palabras para describir la belleza de la narradora y su «enunciación», que es siempre elusiva y puramente subjetiva, como las huellas que los hechos han dejado en cada uno de nosotros.
How is this tripe getting four and five star reviews? Why was it banned in East Germany in 1970? (I can understand binned. But banned?). Is this the twilight zone? Is this book's only merit that there are 159 pages written about Christa T and I am left non the wiser why; or what or who she is and what she does and how she matters, a paen to circumlocution.
Unfinished, just couldn't get into it
