https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574080.Beauty_for_Ashes
I REALLY enjoyed this book, even more than The Challengers. The story was so sweet and sincere and the ending was just right, because it emphasized what is really important in this life. (Plus, the 1930s details were delightful, as always. :) )
This book was one of the best GLH's I have ever read. The message touched my heart. If you have never read a book by Grace Livingston Hill, you should try one.
I am so sorry I did not read it right away.
A well to do family with two lovely girls and a boy who was away from home.
One of the girls was a week away from being married when a very unfortunate thing happened.
Despite her mothers feelings she wanted to get away from any one that would know her.
Her father had just the right place in mind.
She ended up spending many days there and found the true meaning of life and love.
They both found faith in Christ and the true meaning of love.
A must read and a keeper book for me.
Hott Synopsis:Gloria is devastated when barely a week before their nuptials her fiance is killed while out with another girl.Running away to her father’s ancestral home to avoid the well meaning attention she finds that maybe there is a bit more to this life than she’s always believed.Hott Review:This isn’t my first or even second read of this book.
Usually, I’m more able to focus on Gloria’s growth whereas this time I couldn’t get past the devastation that started this.More…Author:	Grace Livingston HillSource:	Barbour Books via NetgalleyGrade:	B+ – I gave this a B+ because even though I didn’t enjoy it so much this time, I have enjoyed it very much in the past.Ages:	16+Steam:	NadaSetting:	1930′s Maine
I got to give this book its due respect.
This author actually lived the time period the story took place and she would have seen lots of changes with people, environment, government, economy in her life time.
I didn't realise the author wasn't who I thought she was till reading the book (got her mixed up with another author).
I liked the story of the 2 sisters who saw life in 2 different settings and were able to choose for themselves their futures.
They didn't have to be govern by attitude n behaviour of lifestyle chosen by money, breeding, location.
Livingston Hill's BEAUTY FOR ASHES is typical of her brand of evangelical Christianity and the device of having either hero, or heroine experience, through meeting the other, a conversion.
In this case, the novel is weakened by the fact that Gloria's story is eclipsed by her sister's, Vanna's.
However, the second half of the novel, which focusses on Vanna, has a great "dark night of the soul" description.
It is in the writing that Livingston Hill's strength lies; her prose is powerful and interesting more often than not.
One of my very favorites of GLH's books, I reread it regularly. You do have to be okay with her proselyting, but that's actually one of the reasons I love the book so much! I love a story where God is the the reason for happiness in people's lives, through tragedy but with God, they are brought to much better solutions than without them! Gloria's tragedy turned out to be her saving blessing!
This is a story of a young woman whose fiance is murdered. She leaves town, hating the rumors she hears about what he was doing before he died. She meets a young Christian man. Hard for me to remember it all, but it's similar to a lot of GLH's romances.
Why do I enjoy the old Grace Livingston Hill novels so much? She wrote the original Christian fiction. Her characters, although "old-fashioned", face dilemmas which are surprisingly modern. Beauty for Ashes is not one of her most compelling but it makes a good read.
Took me a few chapters to get into this story but once I did, I thoroughly enjoyed it! I like how the multiple stories were woven together and it got a bit suspenseful toward the end. Very enjoyable.
My second favorite of her works.
It was a great book! Definitely would recommend it.
Beauty for Ashes
I found it to be a charming book. I loved how the womem found salvation through their different circumstances.
On the other hand, I can tell G.L. Hill thinks people in the country are much more superior.If guys want to learn how to be as chivalrous as possible, they should probably imitate G.L. Hill's male heroes.
For example, how Gloria and Vanna  both  adapted so well to the country, and how everyone in the Sutherland family just loved the not-so-backwoods and plain, country, and Christian folks.
Like, there was no, "Will you marry me" moment, just an "I love you" moment.
But it was very sweet anyway, especially with (view spoiler)[ Robert Carroll and Vanna.
What a delight to find unapologetically Christian stories from the first part of the 20th century! I found this book and several others by GLH in an antique shop, and loved them all. Perfect bedside reading.
Another great book by Grace!!! Loved the Mystery plus romance thrown into it. Started off sad at 1st BUT I'm glad it ended on a happy note :D
