https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38709.Holes
It is both mature and youthful.Stanley is tried and convicted for a crime that he didn’t commit, sent to a reform camp for boys, and forced to work day after day in the hot sun digging holes – without any hope of aid.
This is not a book that promises (like so many other children’s books do) success and rewards for good behavior, for choosing all the right paths.
It’s about making the right choices even when there are no rewards, no promised successes, simply because they’re right.
And more than that – it’s about choosing kindness and compassion, even when everything around you is hard and unfair.
He is provided with the option to choose between jail and camp green lake.
Stanley is not well of, and has never been to camp, so his choice is obvious.
He gets his fair share of adventure from the camp, only it comes in totally unexpected ways.What I liked best was the flow of the novel.
The tone of the story automatically gets you in this really relaxed mode and when you are done reading, you have this really satisfied smile on your face.
Just enjoy this really awesome book, chill and get yourself a good mood..4.5 stars
In 2012 it was ranked number 6 among all-time children's novels in a survey published by School Library Journal.عنوانها: آخرین گودال؛ نویسنده: لوئیس ساکر؛ راز گودالهای دریاچه سبز مترجم مهدی باتقوا در 248 ص؛ گودالها با ترجمه فرزاد فربد در 186 ص و در 227 ص؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش:روز بیست و یکم ماه سپتامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: آخرین گودال؛ نویسنده: لوئیس ساکر؛ مترجم: حسن ابراهیمی (الوند)؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1379؛ در 280 ص، مصور؛ شابک: ایکس - 964417335؛ چاپ دوم 1381؛ سوم 1382؛ چهارم 1388؛ شابک: 9789644173356؛ ششم و هفتم 1389؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 ماستنلی را به خاطر گناهی که مرتکب نشده است به اردوگاه گرین لیک میفرستند.
سرپرست اردوگاه معتقد است که حفر گودال باعث شکل گرفتن شخصیت نوجوانان بزهکار میشود.
This book is so much fun!
I used to take clippings from magazines with book reviews, found an old clipping about this book cleaning up the house recently and thought...
A quirky funny story about a boy called Stanley who is sent to 'Green Camp Lake', a boy's detention center after supposedly having stolen a pair of sports shoes from a famous basketball player.
So, what's going on?....I had so much fun with this book, excellently written and the story...
A sympathetic enjoyable story, really quirky and just pure FUN.
Funny story: I'm trying to shelve this book, and can't remember if it had been banned (but I thought it had - google confirmed).
At the same time, my friend Allison and I are chatting on Google Chat, and she starts ranting about how ridiculous book banning is (an opinion with which I agree wholeheartedly).
Anyway, the conversation went like this: me: Is Holes a banned book?
the whole concept of banned books is stupid.
I mean, these kids committed crimes, or at least they were accused of committing crimes, but they weren't BAD or EVIL.
Love the story of the curse.
3.75
I knew of a friend who lost everything when her father started digging holes.
Unfortunately, my friend's father only acquired a fake map, swindlers for company and equipment worth nothing when you're digging the wrong hole.
Little by little, my friend's dad used up all their savings and even lost his time for their family.
There was once a treasure there, I am sure but her father dug too deep it failed to see it sparkle.The Hole I've read however is not my friend's story.
When someone digs a hole out there in the vast universe, there'd be a lot of soil/dirt displaced.
(well, she doesn't sneer *every* time, sometimes it's just a withering look or a "nah, I don't think so") I'm not sure how I acquired this book, and it was one I hadn't read as a kid.
She read the blurb on the cover, handed it back to me and said "Nah."  I said, "Let's give it a shot.""Oh, it's an award winner, isn't it...uh uh," she replied.I then said, "Uh huh, we're giving this a shot."Cue withering look.The book quickly won her over.
The book is a Newberry Award Winner.Stanley Yelnats is falsely accused of stealing a pair of sneakers and set to Camp Green Lake, for criminal boys.
To build character, the boys get up at 4:30 every morning and dig holes--big holes.
Something is going on other than character building, and Stanley wonders what they are looking for.
We also learn about Stanley's no-good-dirty-rotten-pig-stealing great grandfather and the curse put on his family by the gypsy woman who was missing one pig, his grandfather who found refuge on God's thumb after being robbed by Kissing Kate Barlow, Kissing Kate herself and her handyman, Sam the onion man and how history does and doesn't affect the lives of living people.
I was picking up some books at the resale shop and for some reason found myself browsing in the children’s books. It seemed like the usual fare at first, some Dr. Seuss, a mangy copy of a Clifford book, a few ratty Choose Your Own Adventure paperbacks, Hugh Hefner’s autobiography, some smut called “The Very Virile Viking”, and “Pimp” by Iceberg Slim. Tucked amongst all this tawdry trash was something called “Holes”, which seemed to make sense sandwiched between “Pimp” and Hef’s life saga. I soon
I soon realized that there was a movie based on this book made a few years back, which I had never bothered with, but, to my shock and awe, “Holes” was the work of Louis “Sideways-Stories” Sachar.
The palindromically-named Stanley Yelnats is a good-spirited and festively plump little kid who is shipped off to a boy’s reform program at Camp Green Lake as punishment for stealing a pair of shoes being donated to charity by Clyde “Sweet Feet” Livingston.
The narrative of Stanley’s troubles at the camp are intertwined with the background of how this dread gypsy curse came about and also with the story of “Kissing” Katie Barlow, an outlaw that robbed his great-grandfather.
Holes is one of my favorite books of all time. The whole thing is just so clever. The writing style is simple, but not boring. Every character is amazingly developed and believable. I like how the story of the present and the story of the past connect to each other perfectly in the end. And the movie version is really good, too! I highly suggest this book to everyone.
I thought this author did an especially clever job on the way he set up the story. He flipped back-and-forth between generations, never getting confusing, never giving information too soon, never giving information too late. This was very fun to read.
Mostly, I think the biggest problem is that I'm too old for this book, even though I know it sounds a little pretentious.
When Stanley makes an arrangement with Zero to teach him how to read in exchange for Zero's help in digging his hole, the others aren't particularly happy about it.
Stanley is convicted for a crime he didn’t commit and forced to work day after day in the hot sun, pointlessly digging holes.
While loosing sense of empathy day after day, he has to learn to keep going, get along with the other boys and survive.I wish I'd been in Zero's head rather than Stanley's.
"If only, if only," the woodpecker sighs,"The bark on the tree was as soft as the skies."While the wolf waits below, hungry and lonely,Crying to the moo-oo-oon,"If only, If only.” OH. MY. GOD! 5 FREAKING STARS are simply not enough to do justice to this little gem of a book!My first fulll-length read of 2016, and I couldn't have asked for a better book! And I just happened to pick it up by chance. It so happened that I was looking for an audiobook for my daily commute, and that bumped this dese
But Stanley soon starts suspecting that there's a lot more going on at the camp than meets the eye.Louis Sachar is a phenomenal storyteller, and over the course of the entire book, the pieces fit together so marvelously, and with the perfection of a jigsaw puzzle!The audiobook version was so good that it made me fall in love with the main characters, with the author and with the narrator too!
I practically lived the story while listening to it and it's going to be with me for a very long time!Though this book lies somewhere on the cusp of Middlegrade and YA fiction, I'd like to drag it back entirely into the Middlegrade territory, as that's my most favourite genre in the whole wide world!
از کتابی که این همه افتخار و اقبال داشته، من دوست دارم بهجای ریویو بیام خاطره بگم.
(سوت میزند)اینو تابستون امسال خریدم، با ستایش و بهداد و بهنام رفته بودیم باغ کتاب تهران و من مثل همیشه انتخاب برام خیلی سخت بود توی همچین جایی.
:/ و خب مثل همۀ کتابخونهای دیگه اولش با خودم گفته بودم فقط اومدم تماشا کنم و حرف بزنیم و از کتابا بههم بگیم و خوش بگذرونیم، اما وسوسه بر من غلبه کرد؛ وقتی که ستایش و بهداد همزمان ازین کتاب خیلی تعریف کردن و گفتن باید بخونم.
دیگه نتونستم جلوی خودمو بگیرم و برش داشتم!
(سوت می‌زند)اینو تابستون امسال خریدم، با ستایش و بهداد و بهنام رفته بودیم باغ کتاب تهران و من مثل همیشه انتخاب برام خیلی سخت بود توی همچین جایی.
:/ و خب مثل همۀ کتاب‌خون‌های دیگه اولش با خودم گفته بودم فقط اومدم تماشا کنم و حرف بزنیم و از کتابا به‌هم بگیم و خوش بگذرونیم، اما وسوسه بر من غلبه کرد؛ وقتی که ستایش و بهداد همزمان ازین کتاب خیلی تعریف کردن و گفتن باید بخونم.
:جیـــغ:یادم نمی‌آد اینو با چی دیگه برداشتم.
یادم می‌آد خیلی انتخاب سخت بود و چندتا رو برداشتم و باز گذاشتم.
به‌نظرم این خیلی مهمه.
Everybody knows who this man is, right?I mean, I'm looking over the reviews for this book on the front page and I can find no mention.
Here is something that is tricky in the way it is written, not front to back like so many other simple, dumb children's authors, but has many stories all tied up together in a way that makes us think, and figure things out, and if this character and that character were with his character, could it be that---gasp!And I don't mean to keep speaking for the rest of the universe's little children.
Love, love, love! Kids love it, too. A great novel about inner strength and persistence.
Holes is the first installment in Louis Sachar's middle grade/young adult series titled: Holes.
Again, I'm so happy to say I've found joy in reading along with my 5th grade son.
This academic year has been full of fun required reading and that makes me so happy for him.
I watched the film adaptation of Holes prior to reading the book, but I'm happy to say the two are almost exactly the same.
Full of adventure, mystery, history; it's just fun to read (and watch).
If you didn't read this during your academic years, it's not too late to check it out.
I loved how the multiple storylines in this book tied together so nicely! Now onions are going to give me a different reason to cry...
I was so touched by this book. All the characters were amazing!The plot kept me on my toes! The writing was superb!This one is definitely going in my list of books everyone should read. That means you need to read it, too!
“It was all because of his no-good-dirty-rotten-pig-stealing great-great-grandfather!”  I can't believe I didn't read this when I was younger! Thankfully, I finally picked it up and gave it a shot. Holes is about Stanley, an overweight young boy who after accidentally stealing a shoe (yes, accidently!) goes to trial for theft. He is then forced by the judge to pick between jail time or go to Camp Green Lake. Stanley, of course, chooses the camp option thinking it will be fun and games and at l
Holes is about Stanley, an overweight young boy who after accidentally stealing a shoe (yes, accidently!) goes to trial for theft.
He is then forced by the judge to pick between jail time or go to Camp Green Lake.
Stanley, of course, chooses the camp option thinking it will be fun and games and at least he will get to swim, hence the lake.
The owner is looking for something in the dirt and making all the boys at the camp dig holes all day long and giving them very little water.
The book also features some great side characters, my favorite being the illiterate boy named Zero.
ترکیبی جذاب از داستانهایی که به صورت موازی روایت میشوند و به تصویر کشیدن یک نسبیت جالب از زندگی آدمها. گودالها را دوست داشتم و یک نفس خواندمش. با اینکه لوییس سکر داستانی به ظاهر ساده را روایت میکند، احساس خستگی یا پیش پا افتاده بودن به آدم دست نمیدهد. ای کاش میشد بهش ۴.۵ بدهم! خواندنش خیلی لذتبخش بود.------------------------------------بخشهای ماندگار کتاب:منظورم این نیست که کار راحتیه. هیچ کاری تو زندگی راحت نیست. اما این دلیل نمیشه که ناامید بشیم. اگر با جون و دل یه کاری رو بکنی از پیشرفت خودت
ترکیبی جذاب از داستان‌هایی که به صورت موازی روایت می‌شوند و به تصویر کشیدن یک نسبیت جالب از زندگی آدم‌ها.
با اینکه لوییس سکر داستانی به ظاهر ساده را روایت می‌کند، احساس خستگی یا پیش پا افتاده بودن به آدم دست نمی‌دهد.
خواندنش خیلی لذتبخش بود.------------------------------------بخش‌های ماندگار کتاب:منظورم این نیست که کار راحتیه.
هیچ کاری تو زندگی راحت نیست.
اما این دلیل نمی‌شه که ناامید بشیم.
اگر با جون و دل یه کاری رو بکنی از پیشرفت خودت متعجب می‌شی.
تازه، آدم فقط یه بار زندگی می‌کنه، پس باید حداکثر استفاده رو بکنه....بهتر بود می‌گذاشت هر وقت خودش دوست داشت حرف بزند.
خلاصة القصّة : المال الحلال أبدًا لا يضيع !-- أحيانًا تسوقُك الأقدار لمعاناة تكون سببًا في خلاصك من 
This book really surprised me and surpassed all of my expectations for it. I loved the characters and thought the story itself was clever and nicely laid out. I never got the feeling that the author was talking down to his audience because this is a young adult novel, which is a big pet peeve of mine. Stanley and Zero were a great pair, though Zero was my favorite, and I was kept in constant suspense waiting for the next bad shoe to drop.
The matching and interweaving of the two plot lines is well done.I would have liked a bit more details on the other boys.
Admittedly, the author no doubt wanted to keep the book fairly short as it is intended for younger readers.Admittedly, a really neat scene showing cruelty without overt violence is when Stanley has annoyed a "counselor" (guard!) called Mr. Sir.
Even if he had been guilty, should he have been treated like he was by the Warden and the guards?
Something to think about.Despiste my dislike of the ending, well worth reading for older children--say age 11 on up.
And was sent to detention center, Camp Green Lake, where he needs to dig a hole every day.
A hole that is 5 feet deep, wide and long.
And for a bit over weight and not in shape Stanley, this is tough.
To build character?
You’re digging to build character.
The first hole leaves his hands with blisters.
The second hole is the hardest.
No, the third hole is the hardest.
Maybe all of them are the hardest.With resemblance to unforgettable Roald Dahl's books and characters, Louis Sachar has here a masterpiece.
Everything a good story needs and a bit more.
Two boys who can't trust anyone who have to learn to trust one another.On a surface, this does seem like a silly middle-school age type of book.
Overweight, unpopular Stanley gets accused of a crime he didn't commit.
The judge tells him he has two choices- go to jail or go to a special camp for troubled boys.
Stanley gets to the camp, and realizes it's not what it seems.
And this is where the book shines, because it gets dark quickly, and then you realize this isn't some silly book for kids.
LET ME START OFF BY SAYING THAT I ABSOLUTELY HATED EVERY PAGE OF THIS BOOK THAT I READ.
THE REPETITION WAS STARTING TO ANNOY ME JUST BECAUSE THE BOOK WAS ALWAYS LIKE, STANLEY THIS STANLEY THAT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT ANNOY ME THE MOST WAS WHEN THE AUTHOR MENTIONED THAT AT CAMP GREEN LAKE THERE WAS NO LAKE AT LEAST 10 TIMES IN THE FIRST 5 PAGES.
HONESTLY I FELT LIKE THE WHOLE TIME I WAS READING THIS I THOUGHT THE BOOK WAS WRITTEN BY A 5 YEAR OLD.
NOT MANY CHARACTERS WERE INTRODUCED IN THE 28 PAGES THAT I READ.
This was a fantastic read.
I really enjoyed re-reading this book.
I got to rediscover the reasons why I love the book and I got to pick up on the things that I missed.
The characters were amazing.
I just thought he was the loving one.
I also really loved the friendship between the members of the D tent and their nicknames.
The ending was amazing.
I can't wait to read Small Steps to see how life after being released is for X-Ray and Armpit.
The movie followed the book pretty good, although I thought the book provided more detail than the movie.
Overall, an incredible read.
