https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409591.Conan_The_Freebooter
More Hyborian Adventures7 April 2018 Is it just me, or do other people get annoyed with random people forever recommending books to them. Sometimes it seems that they recommend every single book that they have read. Honestly, I’m getting a little annoyed opening my app to discover five book recommendations, and generally books that I am never going to read. Maybe they are just farming for likes for their reviews – I really don’t know. Honestly, I generally read the reviews on my feed, or books t
Honestly, I generally read the reviews on my feed, or books that I have read, and engage with people that way.
These stories seem to be the adventures of Conan as he made his way to ultimately become a king, though it does make me wonder at times about him being a king, since when one becomes a king the life of a hardened adventurer is over.
In many cases all we simply want to do is lock these criminals away and forget about them, yet many innocent people end up being caught in this dragnet, and end up being branded for life.
The best of the Conan Collections!
Tons of swordplay and Romance!
Howard only wrote a handful of CONANS before dying young.
But the original is still the greatest!This volume has some of the best ORIGINAL Conan stories ever written.
What's really amazing is not just the swordplay but the romance.
If you read SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT it's all from the slave girl's perspective, and Howard actually does a good job developing a compelling romance between her and Conan.
And in A WITCH SHALL BE BORN the battling twin sisters are both very sexy and well drawn!If you only read one original CONAN collection, read this!
His leadership skills are emerging and his actions are taking on a subtlety lacking in his early days.
The wanderings about different kingdoms, with different companions, while interesting, leaves something to be desired in the way of continuity.
He has no companions that he keeps for more than a few months, in fact they are all really just props in a continuing display of martial prowess for the giant Cimmerian.
At any rate, these books are still hanging just below great fantasy reading for me.
That said, they are all solid 3 or 3.5 stars and worth taking off the shelf for some recreational reading.
A friend has been recommending I read some of the Conan books.
This was my first venture into the world of Conan, and here's what I think.Conan is like Nancy Drew for heavy metal fans.
You can often sense Howard's passion for writing, but the stories are unexceptional, and would make average plot lines for comic books.
I truly enjoyed the first short story in this book, but by the time I was halfway through this 200 page book, I was more than ready to move on and read something with a little more substance.

Two of them, "Black Colossus" and "A Witch Shall Be Born," are quite famous, but it's the less well known "Shadows in the Moonlight" that is easily my favorite.
The other two are independent Howard works rewritten by DeCamp as Conan stories - both are okay but not great.
I'm knocking off one star for DeCamp's editing, and a second for the inclusion of the non-original stories.
"Black Colossus" and "Shadows in the Moonlight" are currently reprinted in Conan of Cimmeria The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian, while "A Witch Shall Be Born" is reprinted in Conan of Cimmeria The Bloody Crown of Conan.
Probably my favorite of the Conan volumes. Some of the stories are just pure classic material. Easily read them four or five times and it never loses its power.
I'm probably going to be criticized and ostracized for this, so here goes...This book was not that great. In fact I feel like I've read better pastiches. Perhaps it was L. Sprague de Camp's liberties with non-Conan stories. In this volume there were two stories like this, and both were very bland. Perhaps the problem resides within me (shrugs). Overall, the only thing I took away from this was Conan's crucifixion. I thought that it was interesting that they used this scene in the movie. Definitely a waste of time that will soon be forgotten.
This is the first of the Lancer Conans. Some of you will hate them because they are not only the NOT pure Howard they are also stories made from notes and pastiches by other authors. I enjoyed them, maybe not so much as the pure Howard stories, but they are good.Sorry got it wrong, this isn't the first book in the series..it's the third....the cover tripped me up and I forgot to read the words (Book 3)sorry.
It's been decades but I enjoyed these books!
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... Conan is forever.
Conan the Cimmerian is one of fiction's most enduring heroes for many reasons.He is all but indestructible, his battlefield prowess is almost unequaled, and he's fearless.To me, however, the real hero of the Conan stories is Robert E.
Despite that, he emerges victorious and that's one of the reasons readers have enjoyed his stories for more than 80 years.Count me as one of those readers.
Conan actually takes more of a beating than usual in a couple of these stories, even suffering real injuries that require convalescence.
He meets with some demons or monsters of some kind but they aren't the focus of the story, and he picks up and discards gorgeous women with regularity.These stories are slightly different than normal as often Conan is not the main character.
Two of the stories are not Conan stories at all, but stories written by Robert Howard with a different character as hero that de Camp rewrote as Conan stories just by changing a few names.
Easily done as so many of Howard's stories use the same plot and sword and sorcery style.
In the dictionary, a picture of Robert E.
In this book are five stories:Hawks Over ShemBlack ColossusShadows in the MoonlightThe Road of the EaglesA Witch Shall Be BornThey're all good, but the best by far is "Shadows in the Moonlight." Howard borrows heavily from Lovecraft (or did Lovecraft borrow from Howard) in this one.
. .You get the idea.All of these are Robert E.
Howard stories, but "Hawks Over Shem" and "The Road of the Eagles" were originally historical fiction rewritten to take place in the fictional Hyborian age.Great fun!
Entertaining adventure. Howard wrote so much in his short life time. Good fun.
Some good selections in this collection.
The adventures of Conan continues, the Cimmerian travels and conquers and always gets the girl...
Love this book. All of the short stories are strong and each one is worth reading. If you like muscle bound Cimmerians then you'll love these.
If nothing else, this story taught me to avoid getting punched in the head by barbarians (a lesson I actually learned in high school).Black ColossusThe best part of this Howard story is the grueling battle between Conan’s army serving Queen Yasmela and the vast forces lead by a 3,000 year old sorcerer.
There’s a gruesome massacre of a village, and some cave dwelling bat-like creatures called brylukas thrown in at the end.A Witch Shall Be BornA story written by Howard closes out this installment of the series and finds Conan commanding the royal guard of Queen Taramis.
The supernatural element adds a bit of spice, though it does interfere with the plot a little."Black Colossus" 4.5/5 StarsThe best Conan Story so far.
A thief releases a long-dead sorcerer to plague a small kingdom, and the young queen of that kingdom is guided to Conan.
There are several strong sections of the tale, but they never really come together.
Not only that, after the plots come together, de Camp adds pointless vampires.
The ending is a bit anti-climactic, but Conan getting crucified in the middle of the story more than makes up for it.
Howard Conan stories, but I haven't found a collection I liked enough to buy yet.
The trouble is, of the five stories collected here, only three are solely by Howard.
That doesn't mean they're bad, but they just don't seem as good for some reason.All that being said, this particular collection wasn't as good as the first one I read.
However, this somewhat disappointing Conan collection will not deter me from reading more in the future.
The stories are fun, thrilling, and light.
This is expressed well in part of the introduction:And above all Howard was a story-teller.
Howard was a story-teller.
Howard didn't write the "epic fantasy" we see everywhere today, he didn't have giant casts of characters ala Game of Thrones (although he does kill pretty much everyone he runs across), and there are no arch-villains who last long enough for you to love to hate.
If you get to the end and can look back and genuinely say, "I had a hard time putting the book down," chances are it was probably good.
Also it doesn't hurt that I got this book for less than $2, and that the cover is pretty much the most appropriate Conan cover ever.
Αυτό είναι το τρίτο βιβλιαράκι του Χάουαρντ με ιστορίες του Κόναν που διαβάζω και πέμπτο βιβλίο γενικά με ιστορίες του μεγάλου αυτού συγγραφέα.
Φυσικά είμαι μεγάλος φαν, τόσο του Χάουαρντ όσο και ειδικότερα αυτού του συμπαθητικού βάρβαρου, του Κόναν από την Κιμμέρια.
Ο χώρος και χρόνος δεν μου επιτρέπουν αυτή τη στιγμή να γράψω αναλυτικότερα σχόλια για την κάθε ιστορία ξεχωριστά, απλά θα πω ότι η τρίτη ιστορία της συλλογής είναι η καλύτερη που έχω διαβάσει με ήρωα τον Κόναν μέχρι στιγμής, μαζί με τον Πύργο του ερπετού.
Η γραφή του Χάουαρντ είναι όπως συνήθως απίθανη, οι περιγραφές τοπίων, ανθρώπων και γεγονότων απίστευτες, η ατμόσφαιρα εξαιρετική.
Η μετάφραση του Μαστακούρη όπως πάντα πολύ καλή και τα σκιτσάκια ενδιαφέροντα.
Der „achte Roman des Conan-Zyklus“, der im Rückentext nach einem schrecklich konstruierten Roman klingt, ist in Wirklichkeit eine Kurzgeschichtensammlung.Leider handelt es sich aber nur um einen Versuch, den Conan-Kult weiter auszuwringen.
Dazu wurden hier ein paar Geschichten von Howard ausgegraben und andere sogar umgeschrieben, um aus namenlosen Figuren Conan zu machen (soweit die Beteiligung von Sprague De Camp).
Richtig schlecht ist keine dieser Geschichten – wie ja auch nicht anders zu erwarten –, richtig gut aber auch keine.
Die desinteressierte und nachlässige Übersetzung von der eigentlich meist recht soliden Lore Strassl gibt dem Ganzen noch den Rest, sodass ich nach drei Geschichten die Lust verloren habe.

-Más relatos del icono de subgénero de Espada y Brujería.- Género. Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta. Más aventuras del mito, que en esta edición continúan tratando de ofrecerlas en orden cronológico dentro de la ficticia biografía del personaje, y que nos llevarán desde las ciudades-estado del sur de Shem a las estepas de Koth pasando por los Montes Colchios y las fronteras de Ofir entre otros lugares. Parte de una serie de relatos y novelas que pueden leerse de forma independiente.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Pero siendo honesto ¿Que puede salir mal en un libro de Conan?
Desde que el libro empieza, solo en las primeras 15 paginas matan a 4 hombres de una manera brutal, no era para menos en realidad.
Como los anteriores dos libros se compone de historias cortas sobre las aventuras que vive el Cimmerio.
Entre ellas una es en una isla donde combate a unos piratas para finalmente convertirse en el jefe de estos, de ahí el nombre del libro.
Aventuras, acción y sobre todo mucha sangre.
Si, así es Conan, así es la era Hiboria, llena de aventuras, sangre, tesoros, mujeres y batallas.
Thoroughly enjoyed this collection. I have read this book 3 or 4 times since published. Have been reading Conan stories for more than 30 years and own every REH story published along with the pastiches. This collection contains 2 of the best Conan short stories including "A Witch Shall Be Born". This would make a great movie on it's own despite the fact Conan is not featured in each scene. Well paced and plotted.
Another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E. Howards stories. I am a purist when it comes to a writers works. I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another period. Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read. Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Es el tercer libro que leo de la saga de Conan, supongo que lo más genial de este personaje es lo complejo que puede llegar a ser cuando sus diálogos no pasan de las 5 palabras y tiene menos de 3 en cada historia. También es de admirar que siendo casi un Deus ex machina con patas nunca es plano.El mundo necesita tenerlo más presente.
