https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/694226._
गोदान मानव जीवन के संघरषों, आतममंथन और आतमजञान की कहानी है। मैंने कई बार इस कृति के सारांश में यह पढ़
⁠⁠⁠गोदान मानव जीवन के संघर्षों, आत्ममंथन और आत्मज्ञान की कहानी है। मैंने कई बार इस कृति के सारांश मे
I wanted to read a Premchand for a long time.
The last I read was an abridged version in school in the Hindi class of 8th or 9th grade (if I remember correctly, it was "Nirmala").
Since I am not used to reading Hindi novels, I picked up the translated version of the most widely read novel "Godan" with great expectations.
I guess translated versions of great pieces of literature should be avoided as it loses essence.
Another line "He was parched, so he took a lotaful of water and drank it".
But still if someone wants to try a Premchand, please go ahead.

Hori, the 40-year old protagonist of the book, owns three meagre bighas of land, is in debt to various moneylenders in his village, and (along with his wife Dhaniya, their 17-year old son Gobardhan 'Gobar' and their two young daughters Sona and Rupa) is living pretty much a hand-to-mouth existence.
The characterisations are excellent, all the way from the submissive and downtrodden Hori to the hot-tempered and impulsive (but deep down soft-hearted) Dhaniya, to the selfish Gobar.
About halfway through, the mini-stories of peripheral characters began to dominate the book, leaving behind the people I was most interested in:Hori and his immediate family.
Gobar, his antithesis in terms of adherence to the societal norms, could have been his savior had he really paid heed to him, but the weight of years of compliance seemed much lucrative [using words can be such an irony] to him than the freedom he could have had [irony, again, but hope outlives soul].The novel alternates between the lives of both the poor and the rich.
This novel gives a sharp Sisyphean pain - the pain seems unendurable, but what could be done in the face of life?
---गोदान - मेरे भाव----------------------"होरी को जब अपने घर में गाय आने की संभावना का पता लगा तो उस
---गोदान - मेरे भाव----------------------"होरी को जब अपने घर में गाय आने की संभावना का पता लगा तो उस
Lots of typos n grammatical mistakes in the English translation..will try to get my hands onto the original hindi version..but nonetheless painful n true portrayal of rural life in India.
He does not create a clash of viewpoints and then leave the scene (as has been the fashion of late), he shows the direction, and reveals his convictions regarding the values that are worth living for, slogging for, and dying for.This novel makes the arguments given by proponents of magic realism look lame.
Some Hindi novels do feel weak when read in English.
The dichotomy between the world of the novel and the cultural import of the language creates an awkwardness when the reader creates mental impressions of the story in the reading experience.
But in this translation, I did not feel English caused much damage, definitely not so much to look irksome.
Premchand is the one name that comes to mind when you think of Hindi literature, and Godaan (literally, "donation of a cow") is the one book that practically everyone in India has heard about, irrespective of whether they have read it or not.
Nevertheless, with farmers marching on to Delhi currently, this is a very apt time to be reading about the life of peasants and their hardships.The story is that of Hori and his family.
Gobardhan's story takes up a good chunk of the book, and depicts the difference between city and village life.
4+This has to be the most enjoyable reads of this year for we read it aloud as a couple, switching between listening and narrating :) [with a poor toddler giving us both confused looks of insanity!]Before reading Godan, had heard this is Premchand's last and best work, and perfectly portrays the village life of that time.
But I was taken by surprise at the philosophical content and the depth of characters.
Not only it showcases the farmer's poor condition (which ironically is "evergreen"), albeit the troubles and mentality of the rich and elite class too.Honestly, we had to skim through some parts, as the conversations were too heavy and philosophical to comprehend and felt a bit of a torture.
I simply couldn't do justice by writing anything about this book. The characters feel so lively that you forget that they are from a book. A true insight into the lives of Indians. You feel the pain of characters, you enjoy with them, in short you feel what they feel. A completely gripping novel with a great philosophical touch. You can only turn into a die-hard fan of Premchand Ji. A must must read for every Indian. And please don't read it in any language other than Hindi.
Munshi premchand is really a maestro in writing.
Though the book is full of great lines and remarks but if only i had to choose one such incident I would rate the Speech of Mr. Khanna on the occasion of election while addressing Women.
He talks about role of women in shaping the society.
It is an apt work of a adroit mind how he expresses his concern that why women are trying to fight with men when they are at higher position than men in all aspects.
Women shape society, they control the flow.
It was a great work of literature and it is unfortunate that not many have read this.
Truly a classic.My first introduction to Munshi Premchand was his short story 'Hajj e Akbar' included in our First Year's syllabus.
Then I watched Satyajit Ray's movie 'Shatraj ke Khiladi' which was a lovely adaptation of a short story by Premchand.
His short story 'Kafan' gives you goosebumps.
The novel has quite a big scope as it touches various social issues including heavy interest on loans affecting generations, untouchables, religious and communal blackmailing, yellow journalism, etc.
There are many strong characters in the novel but one can count 'Hori' and 'Dhania' as one of the most memorable and impactful characters written in Urdu / Hindi literature.
Definitely a re-readable novel.
An overtly free feminist; a professor who has rudimentary ideas about women while talking about progress of the country; a land-lord who is not heartless as to see his 'asaamis' (farmers) suffer, but cannot avoid to partake in the bribe that they have paid; a banker who hounds the feminist woman like a pup; his wife, who is the most ideal woman that can ever adorn a household, the very definition of sacrifice; an editor of newspaper which self-confessedly dedicates itself to the rights of the rurals and a lawyer who would sell his soul for commission - these characters make up the high society of the novel.It becomes necessary then, that the novel should not be called a portrait of peasant India, but a depiction of India as a progressive and free society, wherein, as it happens everywhere, those who can, oppress those who can not but suffer it all.
After all what are the desires of a man, those that were never fulfilled.
A story of lessons, of connections, of society, struggles, faith, cheating, theft, of every problem, of every positivity that existed in society then, exists in society now!
Patriarchy, feminism, atheism - all have found their way in this one story.
The yet so demanded peace which Hori did not attain even at his death bed was another phase of the story which leaves the reader at yet another awe.
The sudden reaction of Dhaniya on making the 'Go-dan' and the story ends with many questions unanswered creating a craving for more.
परेमचंद के कई उपनयास पढ़ने के बाद उनकी कालजयी रचना गोदान पढ़ने की बड़ी इचछा थी, आज पढ़के खतम किया। इससे 
प्रेमचंद के कई उपन्यास पढ़ने के बाद उनकी कालजयी रचना गोदान पढ़ने की बड़ी इच्छा थी, आज पढ़के खत्म किया। इ
Describes the Life of a poor farmer Hori and his struggle to keep alive in the milieu of British Raj. Hori is a poor farmer, who has 3 acres of farmland, which he and his 2 daughters, a son and wife till.
He is, however, largely at peace with his life and the only thing he wants is to own a cow.
Each character is introduced, and developed beautifully.
The beauty of the story is in the interaction of these characters, and their subsequent development and the unmasking of the various layers of their nature.
A very poignant story. The ending especially left me extremely sad.Depictions of rural India hardly seem to have changed. The story has increased relevance when we realize that even after 60 years of Independence, there are farmer suicides happening in India.The debates about the role of woman and the ultimate aim of human life are very interesting. Premchand's nationalism and high morals are depicted in all his descriptions. All the issues he raises like women's treatment, caste division, hypocrisy and exploitation of politicians and upper castes are still significant today.
The read felt that tonga-ride along the jerky, untarred, potholed village road. The poverty and compulsion-writ faces peeping out of the shabby windows at every wheel-turn left creases along the heart. Every peep was reminiscent of that hinge that had been throbbing in pain; had lost all, and was yet clinging to the door in the hope that its pain would subside some day, one day... What a read! Speechless...
This is about the most hardhitting book that I have read against wealth itself! It covers a period and society in India where exploitation is common. Not as good as Munhi Premchand's short stories, but a terrific book neverthless.
An interesting look at intersections of caste and class, the rising nationalism, and comparisons between village and city life in 1930s India.
A didactic novel that set out to expose social injustice, Shri premchand exposes the hypocrisy of pundits and The astuteness of Baniya's (moneylenders) of pre-independence India.
Set in north India, it is like our grandfather is telling the tales of his woes of youth, Premchand has exactly written in the same way that our grandfather used to tell us about the oppression of money lenders by their never-ending cycle of loan and interest.
Modern readers could feel disgusted with the passive attitude of Hori- but this was the way with the poor peasants-to endure the punishment, injustice and insult inflicted on them-tacitly.
A nice read that beautifully reflects how life is in a rural setting, contrasting it with the luxurious life of the rich class. How their problems are significantly different from each other, how each one of them has to fight to maintain their dignity and pride in society, how life plays out for the rich and the poor, how a poor farmer is burdened under huge debts but still finds happiness in little things. The mentality of the rich and poor is portrayed really beautifully!
गोदान यूँ तो परेमचंद की सरवशरेषठ कृति कही जाती है।परंतु जिस तरह चांद में भी दाग होता है,इस उपनयास में भी कुछ तरुटि है जैसे मेहता का एक भाषण,जो फालतू लगता है।इसी तरह मालती का चितरण भी हासयासपद लगता है। देखा जाए तो उपनयास का शहरी भाग कुछ हद तक आज के समय से मेल ही नहीं खाता।परंतु जब हम होरी,धनिया,दातादीन इतयादि से मिलते है,तब परेमचंद की लेखन शैली के सौनदरय का आभास होता है।अगर गोदान कालजयी है,तो केवल परेमचंद के गरामीण कषेतरों के चितरण के कारण । हालाँकि मैं इस उपनयास को कुछ हद तक ही कालजयी मानता हूँ,
गोदान यूँ तो प्रेमचंद की सर्वश्रेष्ठ कृति कही जाती है।परंतु जिस तरह चांद में भी दाग होता है,इस उपन्य
The way he expressed the life of a man: the criteria behind the growth & limitations of human beings, is extremely touching.
And when I was brooding over....these limitations: 'what controls us', 'what confines us'; it reminded me the Newton's first law that objects behave predictably; moving objects don't change their direction unless an external force causes them to move from their path; and even if the object is at rest, it will remain at rest unless an external force acts upon it.
As the growth of our body & mind depends upon the food we feed; our soul also seek for divine love to evolve.
The most moving scene in the entire book (and there are many) is the description of an event in Gobar and Jhunia's (Hori's son and daughter-in-law) life in the city - an animal existence and a senseless death told in a mere two paragraphs that brought tears to my eyes.The other part of this novel is the city, evidently Lucknow.
The main character here, a Mr. Mehta, is so boring that if you saw him at a party, you'd automatically head for the punch bowl.
Oh well, Tolstoy was a whiny bore in real life too.
Godan is an engrossing and vivid tour de force of the socio- eco- politico-cultural status of pre-Independence India.It depicts the vampiric fangs of feudalism, the obnoxious and hypocritical caste divide and its appalling fallout on individuals and the pitiable lot of the farmer – who was literally at the bottom of the ‘food chain’.
There is a convergence of the various protagonists but that remains inconclusive.A must read, albeit in Hindi to get the real feel of the dust, grime, stink and the pitiable condition of the Indian village.
It's been such a long time since an old friend of mine suggested this book to me.
My favourite Indian writer till now has been RK Narayan.
The plethora of characters in Godaan, the village-city conflict depicted, the zamindari system portrayed all add up to this book being one of the magnum opus ever to grace Indian readers.
I was spell-bound as to even think each character will be so beautifully laid out- each having his/her moments, ups and downs, truimphs and failures and all of them so beautifully brought together.
I won't say which character said what as it wouldn't mean anything!
I have personally never been to any village, and seen those earthen houses, and oil lamps.
But this book has pictured those days as real, before my eyes.
It was really devastating to even imagine the poor state of a family, where the single earner of the family knows his responsibilities, and keeps on working like oxes; son leaving for a city to have never come back, childhood marriages, and early birth pain.Munshi Premchand is a real maestro in hindi writing, who could accomplish such a legendary piece of writing almost 60 years back.
its the best novel written by the so called greatest indian writer, Premchand. this book is about a poor peasant, named hori who had his lifetime dream of keeping a cow, but couldn't manage even this because of various social and personal hinderences. it confronts the reader with the actual reality of indian village, and its people, of how a poor villager prefers his man mariyada, or social status much above his own life.this book also shows the difference between life in cities and villages, and an unusual linkage between them.
