https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491178.Chthon
As an SF prison break adventure it's fine, but honestly, it's everything that's under the surface that makes this book pretty fantastic.
Anthony keeps everything pretty much on the surface, putting his knowledge of myth and classic literature a direct service to *his* story, and not as a nod.I'm honestly very impressed, but I can also see why people might not give this higher stars, too, because the deeper themes and even the general one of a SF prison break has been done many times.
I'm honestly a bit shaken, myself, and I pride myself on knowing my dark side.Very impressive.
While it was a memorable book, it has also traumatized me for life.
Anthony’s first novel, and the result of many years efforts, Chthon is a fantasy classic and nominated for many awards back in the 60s.
It has aged well, that is its science hasn’t gone jarringly out of date as so many science fiction tales do.That said, the complex structure which attracted him and other readers left me cold.
Talk about in medias res.
The story starts in the middle and goes backward, then forward, then back.
Whiplash.
The story would have lost little if told in order.
Chthon is dark and literary.
Science fiction author Piers Anthony wrote "Chthon" as a young man back in 1967.
Perhaps it's because it was written in a time when science fiction was a cutting-edge genre, when writers like Kurt Vonnegut and Harlan Ellison (just to name two prominent leaders in the genre) were bending the rules and breaking taboos.
The novel is about a young man named Aton Five who is sentenced to the harsh subterranean prison of planet Chthon for the crime of falling in love with a minionette.
If, however, you are looking for a bit of challenge and a novel that makes you question the fine lines between love and hate, read "Chthon".
The novel has the depth of another of his richer works, Macroscope (although I much preferred Macrosope).
Chthon was published back in 1967 and was shortlisted for the Hugo Award at the time.
I respected the work rather than truly enjoyed it.
His sentence is life imprisonment in the subterranean prison of Chthon.It's a novel of binary opposites.
Of love and hatred, of the consciousness and the unconsciousness, of the dark imprisoned subterranean world and the world of light and liberty.
A novel to admire, but at the same time, one of the most difficult works around.
I found it hard to rate this book - it was certainly interesting and I actually liked the way the book was structured. I was sufficiently engaged to read it in a day, which is also a positive sign. Having finished however, I am left with a feeling of unpleasantness, and there is much here that people would find distasteful, especially in the actions of the protagonist. I think it is certainly a book that will leave a lasting impression, and for this reason it stands apart in what is a crowded genre.
It was refreshing to return to a writer that had previously delighted me with his novels.
This moral quandary is missing from many stories I come across nowadays, and the combination of a fantastic plot and deep characterization is a talent a writer should strive to create.
The Author’s Note after the story is part autobiography, part explanation of some of the nuanced sections of the book.
There were some aspects I caught, others I missed, and it is enlightening to read this before placing the book on the shelf or removing it from the carousel.Overall, a great book from an accomplished author.
So, after Anne McCaffrey, I continued to feel nostalgia for my teen reading, and picked up this first book by another childhood favorite Piers Anthony. You can totally see themes in this book that come out in all his later series - from the puns, to the space tyrant, etc.
Superior SF escape-from-nightmarish-prison novel. Chthon, the subterranean prison-world, is quite well realized.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 4/5World: 3/5This was an experience of polar opposites: talented writing, great description | a clumsy integration of scenes and chapters; multiple, fascinating worlds and worldbuilding | a complete disconnect between the worlds and no vision of the bigger picture; a complicated tale with nested plots | no resolution of how the plots were connected or how it fits together;careful, meticulous characterization | ham-handed handling of relationships and interactions.A final note and warning - There was a rotten depravity to this book.
That said, the tale of redemption does not absolve Anthony of the brutality contained in the story.
Many complain about the non-linear plot line, but that's not a real problem.
The plot was easy to follow.
The main problem is that you don't like the anti-hero protagonist.
At first you are just shocked at what Aton does, but later, as the double-helix plot pattern twists, you find out the reason why but not enough to forgive the guy.
There are tons of literary references, allegory and puns, and the premise is interesting and thought provoking, like good sci-fi should be.
But in 2018 I have a very hard time with the attitudes and actions of the main characters.
To me, a good book is a book that i think about when i am not actually reading it. I found myself eager to dive back in to this one after every break. I don't know why i like Anthony's writing style so much.. i just do. He makes me think.
A quotation from the book: "Aton saw that his entire adult life had been a destructive nightmare of chaos and pain, contaminating everything it touched." In my view, this tells you everything you need to know about the book. Oh, Oedipus! If only you didn't skip from now to then and back again. On the other hand, that would make the book even worse.
I remember enjoying back then so I thought I'd give it a re-read.
The book goes back and forth in time, but it's not hard to figure out and the structure actually works.
Unfortunately once the secrets and motivations start being revealed, the book turns into a confused mess.
Someone else here on Goodreads stated that this was written during a more experimental time in science fiction and maybe that is so.
Or maybe I just had less tolerance for a confused plot.
One thing is becoming clear, especially after reading the author's Pornucopia, Mr. Anthony clearly has issues with sex.Not a horrible book, not great.
Piers Anthony clearly has some deep seeded mommy-issues; much to our delight. What would be the state of modern art and prose without the help of mommy/daddy issues? Bright and boring I'd say. This was Anthony's first novel and is a raw, untainted melding of Sigmund Freud and scifi. Chthon was written long before he chose to spend his time and mindshare on churning out those ridiculous Xanth novels. Explore your inner Oedipus with Mr. Anthony. You'll be glad (or deeply disturbed) that you did.-m
Piers Anthony clearly has some deep seeded mommy-issues; much to our delight. What would be the state of modern art and prose without the help of mommy/daddy issues? Bright and boring I'd say. This was Anthony's first novel and is a raw, untainted melding of Sigmund Freud and scifi. Chthon was written long before he chose to spend his time and mindshare on churning out those ridiculous Xanth novels. Explore your inner Oedipus with Mr. Anthony. You'll be glad (or deeply disturbed) that you did.-m
Very interesting, exciting and readable book. The author has an excellent imagination for the truly frightening-the caterpillar monster scene particularly comes to mind. As a whole Chthon is a deadly marvel of imagination and the redemption (or damnation) provided a solid ending. I did discover numerous typist errors in this particular edition that threw me off from time to time. I'm sure Mr. Anthony will make sure that's fixed the next time the book is published.
This was a fairly entertaining book. The idea of love hurting somebody was unique and made for some interesting characters.The constant flashbacks and flashforwards made for a compelling read but also made the plot hard to follow at times.I almost gave this four stars but the confusion in the early going made it difficult to do.
I've been reading since I was a small child and have read some strange stuff. But this was the weirdest book I have ever read
гениально
I'm not sure why this won the Hugo award. The plot is hopelessly muddled, and by the time I got through the first 60 pages, I wasn't sure I cared what happened to the main character any more.
I remember reading and rereading Phthor, the sequel to Chthon, countless times.
I don’t mind working hard on books, but it’s nice at times when the author wants you to appreciate the structure more so than the mystery in creating it.Honestly, though, as I’ve reread several of Anthony’s books as an adult, I’ve become more self-conscious of the subject matter.
As a nerdy teenager, no doubt I was drawn to the brilliantly crafted sci-fi worlds infused with sexual tension.
Now, I still love the brilliantly crafted sci-fi worlds, but that sexual tension seems creepy and, especially in Chthon, horribly misogynistic and a Freudian mindfuck.
I`ve been wanting to read this novel for many years & was not disappointed with Mr. Anthony`s wonderful imagination & writing style.
Unfortunately, the publisher of the ebook must have been asleep at the wheel with so many errors in content (& I reported each one), that I was often distracted & a little bit annoyed.
Well more than a little bit because I actually wrote to them about it.
Even the worst self published book that I`ve read didn`t have anywhere near the amount of errors that this did.
I read this a long time ago but remembered very little of it. So when a free Kindle copy came my way, I decided to reread it. The author has created a complex structure that only made sense to me when I read his afterword. As to the plot, sentient universe sees humans as parasites, individual human man falls in love with the wrong alien and both suffer, mainly because the alien's emotional reactions are opposite of the man's (pain = pleasure). Misogynist in the typical way of sci-fi of this era.
As a 13-year-old I loved Piers Anthony books, especially Xanth and later his Incarnations of Immortality series. But as I got older the misogyny and violence in many of his works got to me, and was one reason I stopped reading them. But I had a vague memory of reading about Chthon the prison planet story and so I picked it up. And it reminded me of all the things that drove me away; while he might be trying to make a negative point about the protagonist's world and character, the actions were simply too repulsive for me.
This is pretty deep for a first novel. POV goes back and forth through time. At first I though the writing was bad because some events seemed unclear and I did not know what happened at very important times, then near the end I saw that was on purpose. When the twists are revealed it will make sense and shock you. The MC seems to be suffering from delusions from his encounter with his first love. There is no world changing quest, no big bad to defeat, just Anton trying to find his first love at all costs.
Jalavan scifisarjassa 80-luvun lopulla ilmestynyt; teos on alunperin kirjoitettu 60-luvun lopulla. Pidin tästä romaanista suuresti joskus teininä, mutta nyt kun luin sen uudestaan, en kyllä käsitä miksi. Kenties traaginen rakkaustarina kolahti siinä iässä. Tarina oli sinänsä suht ok, mutta tuntui jotenkin hyvin vanhanaikaiselta scifiltä. Varoituksen sana muuten suomennoksesta, joka oli aika kauhea.
So I bought this book years ago when I learned it was nominated in the past for some awards that I follow, finally reading it this year as part of a Sci Fi challenge.I enjoyed the intricate structure of this book, with it's flashbacks and flash-forwards.
I enjoyed reading that as well.So while those details might be what stuck out to me, it's also a good prison planet tale, with some nice world building.
(hide spoiler)] Still, I found the universe the author presented to have some nice depth to it.I didn't realize there was a sequel.
Should I reread this to see if it is still 5 stars? I remember being entranced by this book.
I liked that I could not predict ahead of time either what would happen next in the plot or what Aton would do about it.Like many science fiction novels, the focus of Chthon is almost entirely on the plot, and character development takes a distant second place.
Alas, the author does not explore their motivations or feelings, and thus the novel is stuck with a male-centric viewpoint when it could have been more balanced.Although Chthon made me work hard to understand the plot, and I wished the characters (especially female ones) had been better developed, I really liked it overall.
My first questions about whether or not I would actually finish it arose because of the blatant disregard with which rape is treated.
The main character, Anton, rapes a woman as a way of "teaching her a lesson" and this woman goes on to be totally in love with him.
Maybe at the end there was some sort of "redemption" for this perspective, but I couldn't take reading this abuse and vitriol launched at women; this condoning of abusive relationships, arguing that women [i]want[/i] abuse, that this is the way that women feel and want love.
