https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41810.The_Robots_of_Dawn
When I started reading sci-fi in my teens Asimov was the go-to author for new readers.
I was not quite ready for Heinlein or Clarke but Asimov’s The Foundation Trilogy and his robot stories and novels were just the thing to start a lifelong devotion to the genre.
As a slothful potato couch, I would love to live in Aurora where tons of robots are at the beg and call of everybody.While Asimov’s straightforward, smooth and friendly prose style brings back memories of my early days as a sci-fi reader, the differences are quite startling.
Also a reread of the old Elijah Baley novels and robot short stories.
It is the third novel in Asimov's Robot series.
Detective Elijah Baley of Earth is training with his son and others to overcome their socially ingrained agoraphobia when he is told that the Spacer world of Aurora has requested him to investigate a crime: the destruction of the mind of R.
اما ناخواسته، مسئولیت بسیار سنگینی، به اندازه ی همه ی سیاره زمین نیز در این ماجرا به دوش او گذاشته میشود.
زمین از بند غارهای عظیم پولادی رها خواهد شد، به آفتاب سلامی دوباره خواهد داد و مانند هزار سال پیش، دل به پهنه کهکشان خواهد سپرد و سیارات قابل سکونت خواهد یافت و مهاجرنشینان جدید تشکیل خواهد داد و ...
Daneel Olivaw series and Detective Elijah Baley has been sent off-planet to Aurora to investigate a roboticide.
Everything's so foreign and uncomfortable that Elijah can't help himself when he sees Daneel come through the door -- he hugs him.These books are all still about the love between a man and his humaniform robot.
This book is a little less Elijah/Daneel intensive because Daneel spends a lot of his time on Aurora chillin' in a wall niche, but there's still plenty of love.
After all, this is the book that introduces the phrase "robot husband" and features Elijah thinking he'd cuddle up to Daneel for comfort if only he were human.
I would've welcomed an example of an actual command given to a robot, instead of the constantly annoying "I'm a roboticist, so I just KNOW how to do this better than you" attitude.There's not much "screen time" for Daneel, who ends up spending a lot more time in his "niche in the wall", rather than actively assisting Elijah in his investigation.
In the end, I was delighted to discover that there were plenty of brilliant Daneel/Elijah moments (I never even considered shipping them before this book), and I quite liked Giskard too, plus the ending was rather interesting as well.
The final chapter and, mainly, the final conversation, smoothly snatched the 5th star.
Roboti Zore je svakako zrelija knjiga u odnosu na svoje predhonike Celicne Pecine i Golo Sunce. Odmah se oseti da je dosta kasnije pisana i da Asimov recima barata sa vise iskustva. Medjutim sama knjiga nije mnogo bolja niti grandioznija sto se samog zapleta i finisa tice. Ali svakako da prija sto se kroz nju svakom stranicom sve vise priblizavamo Glaktickom Carstvu. Tako da je sledeca stanica na ovom epskom SF proputovanju knjiga ROBOTI I CARSTVO...
This sci-fi mystery takes place in the distant future when the Earth is vastly overcrowded and the entire population lives underground and has severe phobias about going outside.When the story opens a humanoid robot has been "killed" on the planet Aurora which was colonized by Earth people long ago.
Elijah's job is made doubly difficult because most Aurorans despise Earth people, considering them to be infectious and vastly inferior to themselves.
The case is very important beause its solution may determine whether space is further colonized solely by humanoid robots and Aurorans or whether Earth people will be allowed to participate.
I think that I would have really liked to know Isaac Asimov. I am usually too lazy to add photos into my reviews (Applause for all you creative types out there!) but I had to share this photo from the jacket of my book: I mean, Jehoshaphat! Have mutton chops, nerd glasses, and a bolo tie ever been so adorable? I know I don’t think so. He was, by all accounts, an incredibly brainy person (He was the vice-president of Mensa!), but, to me, his humble, plain-speaking nature really comes across in hi
I think that I would have really liked to know Isaac Asimov.
But, I always enjoy going along with unassuming (like a fox) plainclothesman Elijah Baley and humaniform robot Daneel Olivaw as they solve mysteries using basic logic.
Baley is called to the first settled planet, Aurora, to help solve the “roboticide” of the only other existing humaniform robot (besides Daneel), Jander Panell.
I like pitting myself against the mysteries set up by Asimov to see if I can solve them before the main character does.
I think that anyone that reads this type of book knows that it’s much more satisfying to be beaten soundly.
Asimov's books are great for that and although he is rather good at illuminating these other types of relationships or engagements, he is not the best writer of relationships in the male-to-female realm...so here's where the first statement I made comes in: Asimov is far better at writing the chemistry and dynamics between Baley and Daneel, Baley and Giskard, Baley and Solaria, Baley and Aurora, Baley and Dr. Fastolfe, Baley and food, Baley and a bathroom, Baley and......well, you get the idea.Asimov had great ideas and a rather lovely way of exploring them, but for some reason, the realm of romantic relationships between men and women seems to be a huge roadblock to enjoying this book, both in myself as a reader and in Asimov in his ability to let the story flow.
Sadly, I did not like this book as much as I wanted to.
I love the mystery solving detective Baley and his robot sidekick, Daneel, but the story fell short for me.
First, there was way too much discussion about the landscape, traditions, sexual practices, bathroom business, etc on Aurora that I would rather not know.
And lastly, it was the least mystery like novel so far in the robot series.
The constant talk about Auroran traditions and practices took way from the murder/mystery and made it one of the worst books I’ve read this year.
4.0 stars. I really enjoy the Robot novels by Asimov. He is a master at creating larger than life characters and then making you care about what happens to them. This story begins the bridge between Asimov's Robot novels and the Foundation series. Highly Recommended!!Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1984)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1984)
Para Elijah Baley, dos años han pasado desde que transcurriesen las aventuras narradas en El Sol Desnudo, a las narradas en Los robots del amanecer, el siguiente libro cronológicamente hablando, de la saga de la Tierra.
Sin embargo para Asimov pasaron han pasado 26 ...
y se nota.La narrativa es mucho mas madura (se evidencia claramente en la cantidad de paginas del libro, que prácticamente dobla a la anterior novela de la saga), llegando a ser bastante impactante para el lector que sigue cronológicamente la saga.¿Es un buen libro?
Pero a mi entender, queda muy evidenciado que Asimov escribió esta historia para, simplemente, ser un nexo coordinante entre sagas, dejando llenas algunas lagunas que, a futuro, aparecerán.
I liked the way it was formatted as a murder mystery and I think it didn’t make this novel any less profound.
The murder plot was exceptionally well written so not surprisingly it kept me pretty interested, but it didn’t take my attention from what I enjoyed most about this novel and that was its examination of what it is to be human.
Even if you hadn’t read any Asimov prior to this, you won’t have any problems following this story or understanding the relationship between its protagonists.One of the things that I personally enjoyed a lot was the way the author showed how the society we grow up influences us.
(While this story is the third in a series, it stands completely on its own and can be read and enjoyed without having to read the first two books.)I also love the romance in this one.
But the subplot inclusion of a little romance was nice!)And, well, this is going to sound silly, but… I love the food descriptions in this book.
In the previous books in this robot series, it has been made clear that food on over-crowded Earth is mostly made from yeast… and Asimov’s descriptions are enough to make me think I’d just die of starvation if I had to live in his Caves of Steel.
In this book, written in 1983, begins the process of integrating the Robot series with Asimov's Foundation series and provides an explanation regarding why robots are not part of the Galactic Empire of the Foundation series.
I enjoyed it and look forward to reading the next book in the series Robots and Empire.One final comment, I just re-read this by listening to the audio version read by William Dufris and I think he does an excellent job with the story.Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction novelNominee: Hugo Award for Best novel
Why is that I always have such a hard time writing about my favourite novels?
I'm not sure, but it is always so hard to find the right words to describe literature that I hold in high esteem.
This is the best novel by Isaac Asimov that I have read so far.
I do like Asimov and from my book shelf you can see that I'm no stranger to sf.
If I have time (or the creativity) one day I might actually write a decent review.
And meandering expository dialog on unrelated topics to prolong tension as you wait for person A to finally come through on what they said to person B about a motive for the roboticide?The mystery itself is kind of muddy - is killing a robot murder on this planet or not?
Near the end, the local justice tells us a firm "Not" which makes me wonder why Elijah Baley was brought up from Earth at great expense.
Dr. Fastlof says, "But I do have a motive!" on page 90, and he and Elijah discuss bathrooms and robotics for the next 20 pages!
I love that Baley at first dismisses him as an inferior robot to Daneel.
Ama gereksiz uzun olduğu da aklıma gelmedi değil.Şafağın Robotları önceki iki kitaba göre çok daha iyi bir hikâye sunuyor.
Eğer 'o karakter' bu romantizm sahnelerine tam anlamıyla sebep olsaydı bile repliklerin çok kötü bir romantizm filminden çıkmış gibi olduğu gerçeğini değiştirmiyor.Bahsetmek istediğim bir diğer konu ise şu; Çelik Mağaralar'ın Baley'i ile Güneşin Tanrıları'ndaki Baley arasında büyük farklar vardı.
Şafağın Robotları'nda ise bu kadar fark yok.
(Buradan sonra sonu hakkında ufak spoiler var.) Kitabı okurken "Baley'in yine son anda cinayeti çözecek" rahatlığı pek hoşuma gitmiyor, ama neyseki son tam olarak böyle değildi.
Tam sevdiğim tarzda oluşturulmuş bir karakter o süprizi yaşattı.
Like the other Elijah Baley books, this is a whodunnit, the twist this time being that the victim is a robot rather than a human, but it didn't feel like it had the self-assuredness of the earlier books and the writing felt a bit clunkier too.
It didn't help that sex was an important part of the plot but I'm not sure how comfortable Dr Asimov was with writing about it, since he did so in a fairly clunky, clinical manner, although this may have been more reflecting the society that he was describing than any flaw in the writing.Nevertheless, while it was an interesting book, it wasn't nearly as satisfying as some of the other Baley books or of Asimov's other prodigious output.
In the second book, The Naked Sun, Elijah faces his fears and actually leaves Earth to solve a murder that occurred on a planet that has such low population density that the inhabitants have evolved a disgust for their fellow humans.
He thinks that colonizing other planets is the only way that the human race on Earth can survive.In this final volume, The Robots of Dawn, we find Elijah working outside the dome and hoping that his son will be one of the pioneers who will lead humans out into the galaxy again.
Here below is what I wrote for its description:In a remarkable eight-year period in the 1950s, science-fiction veteran Isaac Asimov cranked out nine books comprising three series that were to define so much of the entire genre in the decades following them: the "Robot" series of stories and novels, set in a period of future history in which Earth natives are facing an increasing amount of friction with the "Settler" worlds of the outer solar system; the "Empire" series set hundreds of years later, in which humanity is now scattered across the galaxy and a central bureaucracy rules it all; and the "Foundation" series set hundreds of years after that, in which this universe-wide empire collapses and is replaced by a shadowy cabal of Machiavellian historians and mind-readers, founded literally by one man who was able to "scientifically predict" all these events years before they actually happened.
Nutshell: always already famous detective concerns himself with the setting-significant wrongful decommission of an AI dildo.Elijah is preceded in all his endeavors by the hyperreal version of himself from a "hyperwave dramatization," produced regarding the events of The Naked Sun (5).
(And perhaps human beings had no feelings, only neuronic surges that were interpreted as feelings.)" (304).Other reviewers have noted the tidy progression of Elijah, from robotophobe to robot-lover in this novel.
It's good stuff, and bears out well through the novel.More FTL magic: "the ship merely left the universe and traversed something which involved no speed limit" (45).Cool development regarding telepathic robots, first presented as a legend (79), but later revealed to be more substantial, with setting-significant implications, including psychohistory, the Zeroth Law, and so on.
este es el mejor libro de Asimov que me he leido hasta la fecha.
Este libro continua la historia, creo que un par de años despues del Naked Sun. Leyendo la biografia de Asimov, el mae lo escribio un pingazo de tiempo despues y se nota, es diferente.
Los primeros dos no le llegan a la cintura a este 3er libro de al serie.
No se si es por los dos anteriores o por el hecho que el misterio a resolver en verdad parece imposible pero...
Este libro me hizo expresarme aunque solo estuviera leyendo.
To the very last word of the very last page, this book was fascinating...
I had the ending somewhat unintentionally spoiled by a friend, and yet, it still hit me with the force of an exploding star, so startling was it's end.Any more words would do no further in reviewing this book.
There are no words which can describe such a masterpiece that I can gather to mind which would make more impact than have already been stated.
These are book which make you think.
The lazy mind is forced into action, into wonder, to inquisitive ask questions as one reads.
Isaac Asimov's later science fiction novels were written at the insistence of his publisher.
Asimov complied, and began writing novels which wove his earlier separate Robots and Foundation series together into an even more fascinating unified future galactic history.
Some of the new novels predated the older novels in time and were ingeniously seeded with plot twists fortelling the earlier-written but chronologically later developments.
As in the earlier Asimov novels, there are NO aliens, just different fascinating varieties of humans and robots (to my knowledge, the only Asimov novel that contains aliens is the great "The Gods Themselves", not a member of the Robots/Foundation series).
Tu, che magari dalla fantascienza ti sei sempre tenuta lontana, temi chissà che, e invece ti trovi fra le mani qualcosa di simile a tutto ci che hai già letto, per niente complesso o arzigogolato, nella storia, nel contesto, nei personaggi, nelle tematiche e nello stile.Ormai l’ho capito, forse la forza di Asimov è stata proprio questa: utilizzare la fantascienza per parlare, con semplicità, di qualsiasi cosa, anche di ciò che ci sembra tanto lontano e invece è così vicino.Dopo questa premessa rosea, devo ammettere tuttavia che “I robot dell’alba”, terzo libro del ciclo dei robot di Asimov, non conserva lo smalto dei due romanzi precedenti, specialmente del primo, il meraviglioso “Abissi d’acciaio”.
The Robots of Dawn (Robot #3)  My least favorite book of the Foundation / Robots series so far. This time, I felt that the same formula that I loved in the first two books bored me, especially due to the length of the book (it has twice as many pages as the first ones):● Endless dialogues between Elijah Baley and the suspect / witness / robot at that time. Solving crimes by simply talking to people seems to be normal for a detective.● Showing Bayley's agorophobia several times and comment that
Solving crimes by simply talking to people seems to be normal for a detective.● Showing Bayley's agorophobia several times and comment that he is a man of Earth, and make him improve a bit each time.● Daneel asking how Bailey slept.
Daniel having to explain to Bailey the customs of the locals, only to see Bailey not giving a damn about it.● Weird and nonsense sexual traditions on the other planets.● and also Gladia.But I love Daneel and partner Elijah bromance (can I say that if one of them is a robot?), and Giskard's introduction, and I would'nt complain about all these things if this book was about half the length.
Really 3.5 stars, and my least favorite of Asimov's Robot books.
The story heavily features characters talking (and talking...) about sex in the most detached and clinical terms possible.
It also includes a major character casually committing adultery with no thought of the spouse.
Asimov is a skilled writer, and I greatly enjoyed seeing Baley and Daneel again.
I listened to the audiobook narrated by William Dufris.
Dufris had also narrated The Caves of Steel and The Naked Sun audiobooks I listened to.
He does a fantastic job, and I was thrilled to get all three books read by him.
At it's simplest form of detective fiction it is a wonderful read but as you layer on the philosphy and cultural studies aspects it grows it to much more.As I finish each Asimov work I am incredibly sad, it seems like there was never anybody who could write this genre as well as he did and quite possibly nobody who ever will.
I shall just have to cherish the comparitively few novels (to the rest of published fiction) he did write.
The Robots of Dawn, written in 1983, fairly late in Asimov's science fiction career, is quintessential Asimov, with the exception that it contains a sexual aspect that isn't characteristic of most of his work. The story doesn't contain explicit sex scenes, but sex does play an important role.In this book, Asimov sets the seeds of the science of psychohistory, the basis of the Foundation series, written decades earlier, but which takes place thousands of years in the future.
