https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/775198.I_Escaped_from_Auschwitz
This book was an interesting and tantalizing read. As i went to Poland to visit Auschwitz half way through reading this book it painted me am impeccable image of what the living conditions and the over all life of a prisoner was like in a concentration camp. And gave another side of the catastrophe as he escaped. I could hardly put this book down and i think it is even more special that it was written by a man who had experienced first hand what the dreaded Auschwitz was really like.
This one is.2) Vrba has been in Auschwitz for close to two years and has performed very different roles and tasks.
So we get a very good view on many different parts of the camp.3) Vrba has escaped Auschwitz, which is very rare.
Instead of publishing and broadcasting the Vrba report to prevent hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews from being deported to Auschwitz, they found it necessary to try and cut a deal with Himmler to save people close to themselves.I would place this book next to Ludo Van Eck's "Het Boek der Kampen", though the latter is more factual and doesn't read like a novel.
Anne Frank wowed the world with her personal diary published after her extermination in a Nazi death camp.
Rudolph Vrba presents a stunningly detailed and sadly little-known personal story of his own.Vrba describes details of Aushwitz, the infamous Human Chimney used by the NSDAP in World War Two, that are perhaps little known to casual history enthusiasts.
Death camps were not always a matter of topdog/underdog; there was a thriving underground working constantly to overthrow SS guards.
In getting to know Vrba, be prepared to laugh, cry, scream in outrage, bite your lip in terror, feel ill at the acts human beings are capable of, and ultimately celebrate at the success of one brave young man.This autobiography is not one to be missed!
Wat een ongelooflijk goed boek! Heftig ontroerend en bizar wat er in de Tweede Wereldoorlog allemaal is gebeurd.. Onbeschrijfbaar eigenlijk.. Ik denk dat dit het mooiste heftigste en bizarre boek is dat ik ooit heb gelezen!
Then, I reopened the book and read through a few of the appendices in the back, one includes a detailed map of the gas chambers at Birkenau.
This is when I got confused, so I turned back to the portion of the memoir that discusses Vrba's time on "the ramp" sorting clothing, hauling out dead bodies, and basically watching the procession of people directly to the gas chambers.
He never once mentions going inside of the gas chambers to haul out bodies, and he obviously was never sent there himself.
This is an amazing story, both for it's pure memoir qualities in telling the author's history, but also in the historical impact his escape could have had and eventually did have.
The author's main goal, once away from the infamous death camp, was to make sure the world was made aware of what was happening in Poland, to ensure that the over 1 million potential victims in Hungary did not suffer the fate of the millions of innocents who had already perished.
Jeg fattes ord til at beskrive de forfærdelige, grusomme, bestialske og fuldstændig umenneskelige ting han fortæller om. Det ligger så langt uden for min forståelse, at noget sådan kan finde sted og så i det omfang. Det er bog der efterlod et kæmpe indtryk og berørte mig på så mange forskellige måder, at den vil blive ved mig i rigtig lang tid frem over. LÆS DEN!http://bachsbooks.blogspot.dk/2017/02...
After visiting Auschwitz/Birkenau two weeks ago, this was the right moment to read this book. Unbelievable that this could happen. A must-read for everyone.
I bought this book from the bookstore at Auschwitz when we visited on a trip from Krakow. It really helped hammer home the enormous monstrosity that happened there.
A must read for anyone interested in the Holocaust.
I have read a lot of stories about WO II, seen a lot of movies and visited Auschwitz myself. But this book let's you feel as if you are living there yourself. unbelievable heroic how Rudolf Vrba tells his story and saves so many lifes. Deffinately worth reading!
O my god. I'm absolutely baffled by this book. I've read so many ww2 books but there were so many things I never knew before described in this book. A true hero, Rudolf Vrba.
A struggle to get to safety both Vrba and Wetzler gave the accounts and numbers of those being murdered in cold blood in Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Within the book not only is there the account of Vrba's escape but the Vrba-Wetzler report with the diagrams of Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Detailed numbers of the amount on the transports from each country.When they Vrba and Wetzler completed their report it was to be sent to Hungry in order to save the lives of the Jews scheduled to be transported to Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Het vreselijkste boek dat ik ooit heb gelezen, deze getuigenis van één van de weinige gevangen die wisten te otnsnappen uit het zwaarbewaakte en grootste vernietigingskamp van de nazi's.
Het is niet 'zomaar' een verhaal: elk woord ervan is gezegd, elke mishandeling heeft plaatsgevonden, elke onmenselijkheid is echt.Ik heb overwogen het opzij te leggen; het vrat me van binnenuit op, mijn (gevoelige) ziel kon het niet meer aan, maar ik besefte dat het enige wat ik kon doen, voortlezen was.
Het is naar het schijnt ook verfilmd, maar de beelden die in mijn hoofd gebrand zitten, zijn al gruwelijk genoeg, daar heb ik geen nagemaakte decors voor nodig.
Excellent first hand account. I was looking for a more historical text but came across thus book in the library. I'm really glad I did. It was well written and let me see an accurate portrayal of what life was like in a concentration camp. Compelling storytelling. Really very good. Throughout recommend this!
Truly one of the best books I have ever read....full of history....and at the end of the book the reader is told what happened to each of the war criminals.
Grossly captivating
An extraordinary account of one man's survival at Auschwitz. The writing is ok, but the stories are among the most powerful and poignant I've ever read on the subject.
Zelden werden de gruwelijkheden tijdens de holocaust zo goed beschreven. Een absolute must-read.
horrifying and enthralling
Harrowing but incredible read.
A heart wrenching story of Rudy Vrba, a man who actually went into Auschwitz and managed to escape. I would recommend this book to everyone I know!!
Every1 should read this - unbelivable
This is perhaps the most informative Holocaust narrative I have ever read.
Riveting and heartbreaking.
Not only I had never heard of Vrba, but I was unaware of the incredible Vrba-Wetzler Report, also known as the Auschwitz Protocol, which included the detailed numbering system of the transported populations of prisoners and realistic estimates of the numbers murdered.
This book is a brisk account of Vrba's imprisonment, his escape, and the writing of the report.
This edition has several appendices, including the report itself, further published commentary by Vrba, and a historian's view of the report.
Vrba, this book, and this edition deserve to be widely known.
Eine sehr ergreifende Geschichte.
Ich beschäftige mich schon sehr viel mit dem Thema.
Auch durch meine Arbeit im Verein HEIMATSUCHER e.V. Dennoch ist die Geschichte sehr mitreißend.
Manchmal braucht man, bei so harten Thematiken, ein paar Momente Zeit um alles zu verarbeiten.
Wenn man schon mal vor Ort war, kann man sogar noch mehr nachvollziehen, was grade geschieht.
Denn man kennt die genauen Dimensionen.
Man weiß, wo man sich grade kn der Geschichte an welchem Ort befindet und kann die Dimension noch viel besser greifen.
Ein tolles Buch.
Kann ich wirklich jedem nur ans Herz legen.
Ako recenzovať očité svedectvo nepredstaviteľného zverstva skupinky vyvolených? Neviem. Treba si knihu prečítať a navštíviť aj koncentračný tábor v Oswiencime, a zo všetkých síl zabrániť podobným zverstvám v budúcnosti. Lebo "Na to, aby zlo zvíťazilo, stačí málo: aby dobrí ľudia nerobili nič."
Afschuwelijk maar waar. Veel boeken over de holocaust gelezen maar dit boek is een minutieus verslag van een slachtoffer met een missie. Fijn geschreven.
"Snažil jsem se zůstat zticha, ale nepodařilo se mi to.
Vzdělaná Eva, která tak dobře mluvila anglicky.
Eva, která ještě nebyla musulmankou, protože hlavu nesla stále vysoko.
Do jejího napjatého, hubeného obličeje se vrátil život.Vykřikla mé jméno.Bič se zvedal a dopadal, Eva však nezakolísala.
A jak procházela jenom deset metrů ode mně, ještě jednou zavolala:"Sbohem, sbohem."Opět bič, ale mohla to být stejně dobře plácačka na mouchy.
Byl tam duch odporu, stále doutnající i na prahu smrti."Sbohem Evo. Hodně štěstí!"Byla to hloupá slova.
Prázdná slova, protože jsme oba věděli, že štěstí ji teď zachránit nemůže.
