https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150037.The_Vile_Village
they will not grow if they do not eat• obviously the biggest drawback of reread childhood favourite books when you're in your 20s is that now you wish to protect the children instead of wanting them to continue their adventures• the village is vile because crows carry disease• the fact the Baudelaire's are always still polite even when everyone is horrible proves they are 100 x better people than me
I didn't like this one as much. The kids are sent to a vile village to live. It was filled with weirdos and crows. And of course Count Olaf, I'm beginning to think he has a tracking device on them ! And the mystery of the Quagmire Triplets grows!
I am legally obligated to begin every review of my reread of these books with the following sentiment: I LOVE THIS SERIES SO MUCH.It is a legal obligation of my own construction, because I do love these books and cherish them with everything I have in my cold dead heart, but also…Also this wasn’t my FAVORITE of the series.
Because the genre of YA fantasy has definitely been around since the beginning of time.)Maybe both.Or maybe I just love to complain even when it comes to my FAVORITE SERIES OF ALL TIME.Bottom line: I hate myself.
Here at the halfway point of the series, the author is finally dropping more hints and clues about what seems to be a rather large conspiracy against the Baudelaire orphans, the Quagmire orphans, and I gather orphans everywhere who have large fortunes to be acquired.
Though answers are not necessarily forthcoming, the new clues continue to be tantalizing, a word which here means "something that increases your enjoyment of the series in spite of the figurative red herrings."EDIT: I'm somewhat surprised that this little review has so many 'likes.' I have so many better reviews!
The Vile Village is where the whole VFD thing really starts to take off and the original formula of a new guardian followed by Olaaf turning up in a new disguise starts fraying.The village is quite fun, replete with dozens of vile villagers, hundreds of ridiculous rules, and thousands upon thousands of crows.The off-beat humour continues with Sunny's one worders and their elaborate translation, and the extreme stupidity of everyone who isn't a Baudelaire.The penalty for breaking almost any village law is to be burned at the stake - which seems pretty gruesome in a children's story.
The Baudelaires hunt for them in a book-spanning plot that makes no sense at all, involving clues sent by the Quagmires.
that, at the risk of repeating myself, MAKES NO SENSE AT ALL.
In fact, very little of this book makes any sense.
بچهها به یه دهکده سپرده میشن و ماجراجوییها ادامه داره.نیمه اول کتاب که معماییتر بود رو بیشتر دوست داشتم. انگار هر بار وقتی سر و کلهی اولاف پیدا میشه دست نویسنده تا حدی رو میشه!----------یادگاری از کتاب:«توی بلاتکلیفی بودن» یعنی وضعیتی که همه چیز گیجکننده و خطرناک به نظر بیاید و آدم نداند باید چه کار کند؛ این یکی از ناخوشایندترین موقعیتهایی است که ممکن است کسی با آن روبهرو شود.
بچه‌ها به یه دهکده سپرده می‌شن و ماجراجویی‌ها ادامه داره.نیمه اول کتاب که معمایی‌تر بود رو بیشتر دوست داشتم. انگار هر بار وقتی سر و کله‌ی اولاف پیدا می‌شه دست نویسنده تا حدی رو می‌شه!----------یادگاری از کتاب:«توی بلاتکلیفی بودن» یعنی وضعیتی که همه چیز گیج‌کننده و خطرناک به نظر بیاید و آدم نداند باید چه کار کند؛ این یکی از ناخوشایندترین موقعیت‌هایی است که ممکن است کسی با آن روبه‌رو شود.
“There is no way of knowing for sure whether or not you can trust someone, for the simple reason that circumstances change all of the time.” I don't really have a lot to say about this book. It was ok, there were some cute parts. I like that the book always has some spot-on satire about society and adults especially. This book did push the series along a bit but I'm getting tired of the formula with these books. Orphans go to terrible place, all the adults are horrible human beings, the orphan
“There is no way of knowing for sure whether or not you can trust someone, for the simple reason that circumstances change all of the time.” I don't really have a lot to say about this book.
I like that the book always has some spot-on satire about society and adults especially.
This book did push the series along a bit but I'm getting tired of the formula with these books.
I did think this one had a couple of moments that were a bit darker, which I always appreciate but overall I pushed to get through it.
It's a very fast read though.
I read it in like an hour or two.
It was nice to dive back into this series after taking a little break from it! This book is definitely one of the stranger ones in the series in my eyes. Something about a village adopting children and the crows mixed together was incredibly creepy! But that doesn't mean I enjoyed this book any less, in fact I think it made me enjoy it more. As the series goes on, the books really become more intricate and mature and I find that's particularly prominent in this one!
This was bizarre but another fun read! It genuinely had me anxious as times and worried for what was going to happen. I'm enjoying the way the plot is starting to somewhat (very slightly) deviate away from the original formula and new characters, mysteries and objectives are being added. I'm still not entirely sure where this series is heading (although I have my guesses) so I'm still very intrigued!
If I had to draw a line in the sand with the Snicket books between overly formulaic but funny, and genuinely well put together, I'd put it within the first few chapters of The Vile Village.There's a few things absent from this read through, most of them positive.
In this case, it's legalism, as the town they're adopted by is run by old people obsessed with maintaining a seemingly self-contradicting body of laws.Snicket works in defiance of the Nickelodeon model of pro-kid entertainment, where kids are constantly triumphing over adults.
The most lackluster, nonsensical and frustrating of the series so far. Regardless, I love the Baudelaires with all my heart and can't wait to devour the next book!
El mejor hasta ahora sin duda ninguna. POR FIN le pasa a estos niños algo """bueno""".
3.2/5 "For sapphires we are held in here.Only you can end our fear." This is definitely my least favorite out of the whole series so far.It was just okay, nothing exciting happens in here.I liked at the beginning the idea of the entire village that adopts the kids and all the absurd rules that were created for the habitants.Then it became pretty boring to be honest. The most exciting part was definitely the "riddles" that were left for the children by their missing friends.It was fun to build th
This is definitely my least favorite out of the whole series so far.It was just okay, nothing exciting happens in here.I liked at the beginning the idea of the entire village that adopts the kids and all the absurd rules that were created for the habitants.Then it became pretty boring to be honest.
The most exciting part was definitely the "riddles" that were left for the children by their missing friends.It was fun to build the whole poem slowly and find out what really meant in the end.
I don't have too much to say about these books after a certain point because my opinion on all of them is pretty universal: I love this series, and I need to read book 8 so I can finish season 2 of the Netflix show!Here is my favorite quote from this book of the series: "'Normally I don't approve of children staying up late,' he said finally, 'unless they are reading a very good book, seeing a wonderful movie, or attending a dinner party with fascinating guests.'" These are my ongoing questions for the next books:(view spoiler)[ What does V.F.D. stand for???
I am actually enjoying reading this series. I think I liked the first 3 books best but this one was fine. I would love to read another type of book or series from this author sometime.
2.5 stars Seventh book already and the plot of this one doesn't really differ much from its predecessors.
I feel like the readers haven't been given answers to the bigger mysteries of this series.
Although, Lemony Snicket is slowly dropping hints and facts of a bigger overall series storyline here, sometimes, I still can't help but feel like it's kind of a drag.
I'm hoping the next books would somehow pick up from there and have some diversity.Maybe if I was still a teenager, I'd enjoy it more.The only reason I wanna finish this series now is because I'm excited for the upcoming TV series.
This series is starting to improve and I'm liking it even more despite the fact that it is so repeatative. I am now soooooo excited for the TV show coming out next month!!!!!
Αυτά τα βιβλία με κάνουν τόσο εκνευρισμένη στο τέλος... (με την καλή έννοια). Λες "εε δεν γίνεται!", εε και τελικά γίνεται >.<
I've gone beyond simply admiring the wit of the author and am seeing the makings of a great fictional world in this tale.First of all, with Hector, we have the first character over the age of 14 who functions at a basic human level and is not a criminal mastermind.
This is because this time, the story introduced me to characters to whom I could relate, and about whom I could care.Even more importantly, the conspiracy and continuity of the storyline has finally taken center stage.
It sharpens the readers' skills and heightens their interest.This, to me, is what makes a truly "good read."
Exciting ending, very boring beginning.
This is probably my least favorite in the series so far. Nothing really happened. When stuff did happen, it was connected to a setting and characters that just don't work for this series. I'm sure the TV adaptation will be much better!
And it's pretty crazy how little I actually know about the overarching mystery of the series.I loved the absurdity of V.F.D., the Elders who wore crow hats, the thousands of pointless rules, burning people at the stake, the constant migration of the crows.
Watch as mob mentality seizes the villagers and you find yourself reading bizarre chants like, (view spoiler)["Burn the orphans!
Burn the orphans!" (hide spoiler)] Grab your torches and pitchforks, folks!All in all, a fun instalment of the series with more and more hints as to the connection between the Baudelaires, the Quagmires, Count Olaf, and the true meaning of V.F.D.
Poor Jacques. Poor Baudelaires. Poor Quagmires. It really is all downhill from this book on when it comes to the Baudelaire children’s miserable experiences, but uphill when it comes to storytelling.
Where the books become really clever is the additional bits of plot woven into the anecdotes, dedications and acknowledgments, written for the older reader, whether parents reading aloud or older children.
Although the actual definition of the words is sometimes glossed over, I assume the intention is to entertain the older readers and intrigue the younger ones into asking what they mean.Overall Lemony Snicket (real name Daniel Handler) uses the fact that he is writing a book to his advantage more than anyone else I have read.
He plays with the words on the page, often inviting readers to skip chapters, find out more, answer questions or search for hidden meanings.
"It takes a village to raise a child"? Gosh, I love that the author takes everything so literally and actually allows a whole village to be the new legal guardian for the Baudelaire orphans.What's really bugging me is this slow dribble of information. Who was Jaque Snicket? What does Beatrice have to do with everything? I never would've thought there was such a mysterious storyline behind these books, one that weaves through the whole series. I'm so curious about the final solution.
This series is beginning to get very repetitive, but I do like The Vile Village's imagery and the author's dark wit.
بینظیر!بهترین کتابی که تا حالا از مجموعه خوندم. تصویری که از دهکده و کلاغها توی ذهنم ترسیم میکرد، زیباترین تصویر و توصیفی بود که توی یک کتاب کودک خوندهم. حدس زدن داستان نسبت به کتابهای قبل برام سختتر شده بود، داستان پیچیدهتر و پختهتر بود و از طرفی حس میکنم نقطهی آغاز خیلی از ماجراها و اتفاقها خواهد بود و از همه جالبتر اینکه بودلرها مستقل شدند!
بی‌نظیر!بهترین کتابی که تا حالا از مجموعه خوندم. تصویری که از دهکده و کلاغ‌ها توی ذهنم ترسیم می‌کرد، زیباترین تصویر و توصیفی بود که توی یک کتاب کودک خونده‌م. حدس زدن داستان نسبت به کتاب‌های قبل برام سخت‌تر شده بود، داستان پیچیده‌تر و پخته‌تر بود و از طرفی حس می‌کنم نقطه‌ی آغاز خیلی از ماجراها و اتفاق‌ها خواهد بود و از همه جالب‌تر این‌که بودلرها مستقل شدند!
3,5 - Gostando de que as histórias tem ficado mais complexas. Me disseram que no próximo livro, O Hospital Hostil, tudo muda então fiquei lendo ansiosa para seguir em frente. Finalmente parece que as crianças estão evoluindo e acho que no próximo livro a história vai se conectar com algumas informações de Só Perguntas Erradas <3
It is yet another tale of how the Baudelaire children are a well placed razor away from death.
Luckily Violet, Klaus and Sunny are sharp children and are using their individual talents to stay alive.Thanks to the heroic and mysterious efforts of Lemony Snicket it seems that this tale could come to a quick end for the children.
On the other hand, they may find the answer to all their worried including the elusive meaning to VFD.Cheering for these children to remain alive has been a pleasure and a joy.
I am exuberant to say that this book into a tail spin which may be too difficult for the Baudelaire orphans to pull out of quickly.
Reread. I remember this being a favourite but not anymore.
