https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40961608-the-worst-hard-time
A good book...a thorough history...but dry as a throat full of sawdust in the middle of the desert. That about sums it up, but of course I will continue to babble on for a few more paragraphs. Before reading this book, I knew next to nothing about the Dust Bowl and the cataclysmic storms that occurred in the 1930‘s, primarily in the area of the U.S. known as the panhandles of Texas and Oklahoma (see map):  If you're like me in this respect, than this book is a very worthwhile read, assuming you
A good book...a thorough history...but dry as a throat full of sawdust in the middle of the desert.
Before reading this book, I knew next to nothing about the Dust Bowl and the cataclysmic storms that occurred in the 1930‘s, primarily in the area of the U.S. known as the panhandles of Texas and Oklahoma (see map): 
As the book chronicles, the dust storms were caused by decades of massive over-farming in the panhandles and surrounding areas without the use of wind erosion prevention techniques (e.g., crop rotation, cover crops and use of fallow fields).
In an interview with Author Magazine, Egan tells of seeing his son’s American History text and being appalled that the Dust Bowl had been relegated to a single paragraph.
At the end of the book Egan looks at some of the present-day foolishness that is contributing to future catastrophes.
Egan makes the time come alive, shows how the Dust Bowl came to be, looks at the impact it had on area residents, what was done to try to fix the problem, and sounds an alarm for us all to make sure we don’t repeat the errors of our past.
Aye-yip-aye-yo-ee-ay!” ~~written by Rogers and HammersteinMoving to Oklahoma“You are going to look for a home in Oklahoma?” By the look on her face, and the tone in her voice, I knew that my friend was thinking of flat land, the dust bowl and tornadoes.
Perhaps, Jesus protects it from another Dust Bowl, which I learned later, had originated in the panhandles of Texas and Oklahoma and had spread out somewhat to include parts Colorado, New Mexico, Kansas, and Nebraska.
Back in the pioneer days they called the Panhandle, No Man’s Land, and it touched Kansas, Texas, New Mexico, and Colorado.
ExhaustingSoberingDepressingInstructiveHaunting Interesting TimelyGrindingSurprisingPainfulImportantNow, what's up with the subtitle? If it were really "The Untold Story," wouldn't it just be a book full of blank pages? Shouldn't it be "The Previously Untold Story"? And why don't publishers ever ask me for my opinions on these things? This calls for some serious pouting. You should still read the book though. Outstanding research and thorough presentation with lessons for us in our 21st-Century short-sighted resource exploitation mode.
What I knew before about the 1930s drought in the American Dust Bowl was this: there was an agriculture-destroying drought in and around Texas and Oklahoma during the Great Depression that made the economic devastation there even worse.
What I learned here, through the personal stories of the people and towns affected, was that the Dust Bowl was a man-made disaster of the first order, an environmental catastrophe due largely to human error, ignorance and greed.
Even if the houses were not made of sod, they were full of dirt absolutely all of the time from the constant heavy dust storms, despite every attempt to seal doors and windows with damp cloth and tape.
“Of all the countries in the world, we Americans have been the greatest destroyers of land of any race of people barbaric or civilized”- Hugh Bennett, quoted in Timothy Egan, The Worst Hard TimeA couple years ago I read Egan's book The Big Burn: Teddy Roosevelt and the Fire that Saved America (read in 2015).
Egan is fantastic at exploring disasters and the public policy response.
He, like John McPhee, has the ability to weave a story about people and place.
Egan likes the past.
McPhee likes geology.
Egan likes disasters.
Who knew, years ago, I would be so drawn to the historical disaster genre?
Instead, the American hegira to Dust Bowl country was promoted by the government, sustained by commodities speculation, facilitated by the ingress of the railroad, and magnified by the hubris of the early plains farmer.From a notes section, you know Egan has done his homework.
Black Sunday (14 Apr '35) was the absolute worst, a Biblical duster of moving earth, responsible for most of the storm pictures you're probably aware of from that time.I award 3 stars for a solid book, but nothing spectacular besides the topic.
I have about a week to read this for book club and I've got a lot of books in progress that I hate to set aside, so we'll see how this goes...UPDATE: I gave up!
I found the writing to be overblown, over-the-top, even silly at times.
He'd introduce a person or family and I'd start to get interested, and then he'd abandon them and go back to large, sweeping passages about "the land" which made me start to nod off.Had he chosen one person or family to tell the story through, it could have been fascinating.
This should be required reading for anyone living in the west and for all politicians.
The author does a fine job of telling the story of the Dust Bowl era, why it happened (natural forces and human actions), and where we stand today.
It's clear to see that adding climate change to the mix requires us to develop stronger conservation policies & practices if we want to avoid such a catastrophe happening again.
With the population we have in this area now, I can't imagine the suffering or how we would recover.
The old photographs included in this book are truly worth a thousand words!
Once upon a time there was a country where speculation ran rampant, environmental disaster loomed, and foreclosures and job loss dominated the economy.
It was the Great Depression, v1.0.Timothy Egan's book has an unusual perspective.
It is about those who *stayed* in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle during the dust bowl.
It is the story of government supported land speculation gone horribly wrong.
It is also the story of an attempt to deal with an economic disaster that was unprecedented in scale and completely unexpected.It is a compellingly told story and, unfortunately, disturbingly familiar.
5 stars to a book about the Dust Bowl - who would've thought it?
Egan does an amazing job of combining the varied causes, and the related perspectives, of the drouth that savaged the plains throughout the 1930s.
Not only was it an amazing read, made personal through the stories of a handful of families in the Texas / Oklahoma panhandle, I learned about one of the most influential and far-reaching incidents in our country's history.
And the parallels to the environmental, governmental, political, and individual issues that we are facing today is rather breathtaking.
If you didn't receive an inspiring history education, read this book.
In this narrative, Mr. Egan has written a superb account of what life was like on the high planes of the Texas Panhandle during what is probably the worst ecological disaster in US history – The Dust Bowl.
Also wheat farming didn't require any special knowledge – anyone could do it, if one was willing to put in the work.The author then explains what happened when the price of wheat crashed in the late ‘20s and the farmers could not sell it for the cost of production (view spoiler)[ They plowed more ground and planted more wheat – not surprisingly the price of wheat did not recover.
Highly readable history of the American Dust Bowl in the southern Great Plains in the “Dirty Thirties,” what led to it, and how the people living in the region survived it.
By focusing on the people that stayed, and following the stories of several families, the author shows the depths of suffering experienced in this dark period.
A few of the challenges, in addition to lethal dust storms that recurred for almost a decade, included “dust pneumonia,” plagues of insects, static electricity, drought, poverty, starvation, and foreclosure.
Egan has captured a vivid snapshot of a time-period, and the courage, fortitude, and anguish of the people who lived through it.
The Plains were home for hundreds of years to Native American tribes.
The Homestead Act was the beginning of the forces that brought about the ecological disaster that destroyed farming and indeed life in the southern plains.
The Dust Bowl impacted Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico and the western Oklahoma panhandle.
Signed into law in May 1862, the Homestead Act opened up settlement in the western United States, allowing any American, including freed slaves, to put in a claim for up to 160 free acres of federal land.
This book describes in detail how it was human intervention, and destruction of the natural ecology that led to the Dust Bowl.
The most amazing thing about this book was that it read like a story.
But even if you don't have any personal ties to the Depression or the Dustbowl, this book will still have something that grabs at you.In a way the fact that it almost reads like a novel kind of hurts the truthfulness of the book.
The earth is a very delicate creature that needs to maintain a balance that man can't control.This book is left as a reminder of what happened as the people who lived it are now reaching the end of their long journey.
I had heard of it, and I’ve read the quintessential novel about the era, The Grapes of Wrath.
In following the lives of several individuals and families living through the Dust Bowl, Timothy Egan brings the era to horrific life.Normally, I’d say that top-notch fiction can do a better job than non-fiction histories of depicting what it’s like to actually live through certain circumstances.
I’ve never read a novel that had any event that was as terrible as the Black Blizzard of that era.
His reading keeps the book interesting, unlike many non-fiction audiobooks.
I can't recall a more appropriately titled book than this one, "The Worst Hard Time".
This book is not about the people that fled the Dust Bowl.
What is also remarkable about this book is to read it now in a time when we live among people that for selfish and political reasons are adamant in their rejection of science and in climate change.
The book makes clear that after the government finally addressed the crisis following FDR's election that the cause of the Dust Bowl was man and his ignorance and his greed.
Pstscript: My husband is now reading this book and so of course we are talking about it.
I wanted to know when they were allowed to become American citizens.
The other error my husband pointed out to me.
Two million Americans were living as nomads."The Burlington Northern railroad line began in the 1970s, not the 30s!Review: The scope of the book is so wide - you get everything from the immigration policies of Catherine the Great to the tales of the Volga Russian Germans who settled in Oklahoma to FDR's New Deal.
Overall a very sad episode of American history.
I purchased this a few years back and then let it languish, thinking I wasn't ready to read non-fiction, with all of its dry, heavily foot-noted prose.
Egan is a Pulitzer winning journalist and knows how to make sure readers understand that real people lived in this section of the country that extended from the Canadian to the Mexican borders.
With each new duster, hope that the Osteen half-section could deliver some measure of relief to the family slipped away.
Stories like that made parents give up on school.
She is 94 years old.
Because of the personal attachment to the event I think I went into this story with expectations that were too high.
There is an extraordinary amount of history here that explains a lot to me, but the overall reading experience was a little dry for me.
For those with blinders who believe that humankind cannot cause climate change, this is a book you must read.
In a single generation we destroyed a land that the American Indians had lived off of for tens of thousands of years.
More like the worst hard read. Actually, it's not a bad book; he really captures the unrelenting grimness of the topic. The resulting experience, however, is just that: unrelenting grimness. The dustbowl was way worse than I realized; however, I knew this half-way through, and spent the rest of the book wondering, like its subjects, when it would end.Well written, yet excruciating.
Granted, he's writing about a phenomenon that dragged on for years, repeatedly raising and dashing ever-slimmer hopes; the people who lived the "Dust Bowl" years were literally worn out, but Egan needed to do something more with the material than recreate that sensation.
His description of the CCC efforts at re-grassing the plains left me with significant questions that he doesn't answer: Given that the dust storms continued unabated throughout the effort, what was the government's strategy for protecting the newly planted grass during the time it would have taken for it to mature enough to hold the soil?
*Worst Hard Time* begs the question: Is there any redemption?
At the time, all I was able to dig up on the topic was one, small Scholastic book at the library, but it left me yearning for more.
It tells the story of how it all started: the free & cheap land grab offers (land stolen from the Indians, of course) for farmers to come and make a go of it in a part of the country that received little rainfall and had never been farmed (the western parts of Oklahoma, Texas, Kansas, soutwest Nebraska & eastern Colorado).
Land that for centuries was rife with grasslands that sustained buffalo and plains Indians.
Timothy Egan has given us an amazingly powerful book, THE WORST HARD TIME, about the 1930s dust bowl, how we got it, and what was done about it (at first, very little).
In my opinion it excels over earlier works because it gives ecological causes for the phenomenon over and above the usual "dry weather and strong winds." I won't deny that THE WORST HARD TIME has its more pedantic aspects when it gets into climatology and such, but otherwise it's so good I would recommend it for high-school history courses and, of course, general readers interested in this curious and terrifying aspect of American history.
This was a fantastic book about the the Great American Dust Bowl.
So much of this was new information to me so I was completely into it.
What a great history lesson.
I really felt for the people who settled in the area that was the most affected by this.
They gave it their all to eek out a living (including life itself).
I don't know if it was because of desperation, ignorance, or stubbornness, maybe it was a little of all three and then some.
But achieving the American dream has a powerful pull.
Most of the Great Plains area was affected by the Dust Bowl, which includes the area from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains from North Dakota to the Texas panhandle.Many people lived in dugouts, which literally, was hole dug into the ground where a family could take shelter.
Since the Dust Bowl happened during the depression years, people already had so little money available that when the soil blew away the farmers in these areas were not able to grow enough to feed their own families, so obviously they had no cash to build and maintain a structure.
Egan’s account of environmental disaster and personal hardship follows the lives of farm families and townspeople who lived through the dust bowl of the 1930s.
Demand spiked due to WWI and the farmers planted all the land they could.
The farmers lost 480 tons of soil per acre.
This sad lesson of environmental disaster has not prevented further degradation of the land.
Egan’s book is more than an account of the land; it is a chronicle of a remarkable people.
The book is filled with heartfelt personal stories of dust bowl families who suffered incredible hardships.
I remember statistics from junior high civics class about the extent of the damage done to countless millions of acres in the heart of the country, I even remember a picture or two from a textbook, but nothing made the story more real than Egan's thoughtful and insightful book.Rather than focus on a rehashed telling of the Dust Bowl, Egan meticulously researched first hand stories (including interviews with a couple of survivors still alive in the millennium) that made the pictures and stats come alive.
The land is green in the spring and burns in the summer, as it did in the past, and antelope come through and graze, wandering among replanted buffalo grass and the old footings of farmsteads long abandoned."This book is a remarkable accomplishment - Timothy Egan introduced me to a group of hardscrabble men and women living through, as the title tells us, the worst hard time, and left me stunned with the grace that can be found in the harshest of stories.
An informative and enlightening account of the Great American Dust Bowl during the 1930's. This environmental nightmare caused by human error, a combination of destruction of land and the slaughter of animals, is unbelievable with photo's that appear to be from a post-war novel. A worthwhile read.
