https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28698.To_Green_Angel_Tower_Part_2
I have been marathoning the 2nd-4th books over the last few weeks in preparation for the new series Williams is about to launch into in the same world, and it was quite the experience to just dive in...This book was certainly the most enjoyable of the four for me, although I think the series gets stronger as it goes.
I think that since writing this series Tad Williams has probably only gone from strength to strength and I know I loved the Otherland series by him, so I am looking forward to reading more set in this world with his new book.
I definitely think if you are a classic fantasy fan you may well want to try some Williams very soon :) 4*s for this one!
It took longer than I would have liked (I read a few books in between) but have literally just closed the covers on this final volume.
You are a gifted individual and I am forever in your debt for sharing this story with me.Normally I would say that the worst part of finishing this series is that the story is over and there isn't anymore.Well smack my ass and call me a donkey cuz now there's more.
The whole reason I embarked on this epic re-read was so that I could dive into The Heart of What Was Lost and then the start of a new trilogy, The Witchwood Crown.
So...bye!PS: Read this series.
As I said, this is a very traditional Fantasy, complete with the kitchen boy dreaming to be a knight, a run away princess, dark and light Elves, magic swords, dragons, dwarves, good and bad guys working on their plans for their side to gain power and destroy their enemies...
Despite it following in the footsteps of previous great works, this series succeeds in remaining fresh and enchanting, making it a must read for the fans of the genre.
There is a follow -up series in the works and I am looking forward to reading it as well!
Loved it madly, embarrassingly sad to have it end, excited and nervous beyond belief for The Witchwood Crown!Oddly, I do always seem to hit a snag around the 200-page mark in this particular volume (which I suppose translates to something like a mid-book lull if taking TGAT as a single book), but before and after that, I could hardly put it down.
Let me just say that I love books that leave you like this: properly shattered, achingly happy, so sad to turn the final page but so content to leave them there.
Awesome epic series BR with Richard, a great fellow knight of Osten Ard.A brilliant end to a brilliant series! A fantasy masterpiece of epic proportions! I loved every bit of it and highly recommend it.
Wow I cannot believe it's over! Gah I'm sad lol I also cannot believe I finished this book in a couple weeks, it is a massive brick of a book XD I loved it alllllllll I don't even know what to say... I'm going to read the 2017 novella next
This book was just ok.
How many times did a character begin to tell me something before being interrupted or deciding that the character they were talking to could be told the important information later.
Things took so long to be explained that characters were yelling at other characters to get to the point.
The climax ends abruptly and the next chapter takes place several hours later and somebody else explains the rest of what happened.
It was a very frustrating book.
The first one in the series hooked me, the next two dragged but kept my interest and this last one annoyed me.
it was good, it was really, really good, but (and I hate to say this) it wasn't great.This was due to a couple of reasons: (view spoiler)[a couple of characters (noticeably Miriamele) behave in an incredibly stupid way to the point that I wanted to shake themthere was a lot of wandering about in tunnels, which is a fantasy trope I personally hate, so this section dragged incredibly for me  (hide spoiler)]These are very personal, and may not bother you.
It doesn't break any ground in fantasy, but is so engrossing that that doesn't really matter.
Now that I finished the whole series, I'm sad that it's over and I wish there were more to read about Joshua and Simon and Binabik and Miriamele.
Ta ideja spajanja dva svijeta mi je bila stvarno dobra.Što se tiče likova, uživala sam čitajući kako se Simon razvijao te također kako su se neki od likova mijenjali.
Isgrimnur i Isorn su mi također bili odlični likovi pa sam i zbog njih bila tužna.
Tako da su na kraju neke stvari ipak završile sretno.Sad kad sam napokon završila cijelu seriju, žao mi je što je gotova i voljela bih da ima još koja knjiga o Joshui, Binabiku, Simonu i Miriamele.
Sixteen hundred pages (in this story) of complex plots, sub-plots and sub-sub-plots set in multiple, fully-realized cultures, many more than medieval Europe analogs.
Loads of quotable epigrams.“If what we have experienced lately has been God’s way of showing his favor, I think I would be willing to try a little of his punishment, for a change.”Religion is a major part of these cultures and the stories.
(Not a complement.) Basically, he lost control of his story.
The best epic fiction is a balance between immersion and focus.
Williams succeeded in volumes one and two, but the story seems to have gotten away from him here.
Although it pains me to read about Maegwin death, I'm glad that Joshua lives. The end of this book was so rewarding.Reading this book was such a pleasure, the Simon journey below Hayholt through ruins of Asu'a was so inspiring. This book was so magical, epic and touching I wish Tad's new installment follows the same path.
I was drawn into a colorful world filled with interesting characters and brilliant storytelling, and so lost within this story I was sad when it finally came to an end.
Utterly believable, compelling and simply fantastic the final installment within this brilliant series is the perfect end to an incredibly long story.
It did seem like a terribly long wait until I was able to grasp hold of this book, but it was well worth it as I was so elated by how Tad Williams constructed the ending with such excellence.
The end to an incredibly long trilogy.
The series has a bit of The Grapes of Wrath feel to it in that obstacles are constantly put in front of the character and sorry and misery is all that ever remains.
However, unlike The Grapes of Wrath, this series does end with a happy ending (which was refreshing).
However, if you take a sneak peek at the author's comments about this series on his website, you'll find he was just as daunted with writing it.
There's a whole lot of traveling and discovery and an incredible amount of mystery which can be quite frustrating.
This was one of the best books I’ve read in a long time.
I read it in two sections, with two other short books falling in between.
The second half of the book really drew me in and I had a hard time putting it down.
The ending left a little bit to be desired.
There was so much build-up throughout the whole 2,000 page series and then the end was just rushed through.
There were a lot of twists to the plot as it neared the end though, and I enjoyed that thoroughly.
What a journey.
Four books full of unforgettable moments.
Haunting battles, beautiful harsh vast landscapes, terrifying labyrinthine subteranean places, great climaxes and even very well executed horror scenes.
A classic epic.
A twisted and original Lord Of The Rings type.
It might be kinda slow, especially compared to modern fantasy, but I savored almost every page.
Its really a shame that these books are not hyped nowadays because there are so many moments that could inspire artists.
Especially those Elves.
Compared only to Tolkien's.
All an all a very fulfilling and satisfying experience for everyone who likes traditional epic fantasy.
Wow. Just.... wow I don't really know what to say, how to sum up this book, and the series as a whole in a coherent manner. Just.. epic. In scope, in world building and especially in characters. As with any series about war there where deaths that where extremely sad, more than a few tears where shed. SO many twists and turns from the small to the amazing. I don't really know what to say I want to rave about this book but I don't want to spoil it for anyone elseSuffice to say its truly amazing
I have deliberately kept aloof of all synopses of the brand-new book that was just released, or the novella and short story either.Some remaining questions (relatively spoiler-free, but be warned!!) that were not answered by the end (but perhaps have an open window to do so in the next series):1.
Why did Prester John hate the Sithi?
The book implies that it was an insufficient motive that it was just for the lie we discover in the last quarter.
I am unclear how much gap there was between the Fisher King and Prester John?
Vergesslichkeit hat manchmal was Gutes. So konnte ich das Finale wieder voller Spannung geniessen^^Und jetzt auf zu den neuen Bänden...
Simon, kao glavni nositelj ove price, iako jos djecak, susrece se s nizom teskih izbora i te sve situacije, borbe na bojnom polju, zaljubljivanje, odlazak za Miriamele itd.
Njegova je uloga vazna za psiholoski status ostalih vojnika jer se radnja zasniva na casti i tradiciji koja daje sudionicima ''krila'' kako bi stupili u borbu i ostvarili svoje ciljeve.Klasicni ''bad guy'' Pryrates je predstavljen kao veliki voda i lik koji ne preze ni pred cime kako bi ostvario svoj naum.
Kako to obicno i biva, naravno da nije uspio, ali kroz cijelu pricu lik je jako dobro strukturiran i njegova je uloga vrlo bitna.
His sin?A few complaints?There was a foreshadowing of Simon's ancestry (Miriamele thought his face looked like someone she'd seen before) but it wasn't something anyone reading could have guessed.
And in either case, Why would Simon have such a strong resemblance to his ancestor of 500 years ago, so much so that the statue in the throne room reminded people of Simon?
I also didn't feel like there was ample reason given why Simon wasn't told this by before by all the people who knew about it.There didn't really seem to be a strong redemption or forgiveness for Miriamele.
It feels so good to finally be able to finish a fantasy series!
The first two books of the trilogy were kind of a roller-coaster, good at times but I also find myself daydreaming during other parts of the books.
Even though the ending was somewhat anti-climactic I still enjoyed it and I finished very satisfied.My favorite part of this series?What these books lack in action they make up for in character development.
When I finished the series it was bittersweet because I knew it was the last time I'd read about these characters.I give this book 4.5/5 stars.
Where do i get my medal for finishing this behemoth?I enjoyed the first three books, however book 3 part 2 was stretched like a hippo in Lycra pants. It wasn't pretty at all and at times i was about to DNF. I got to the stage that i was so bored with everything being dragged out, i didn't care what happened to the characters. I can't believe that these books weren't edited sufficiently that they fitted into three novels.But I've finished at last. Yesss.
Im glad that's over and i cant see me rushing back to read any more Tad WilliamsThe book was overly long but so were the previous three and it really could have been cut from 800pages to about 400, so much detail for so little story.
Finally! I grew very tired reading it, some situations were repeating over and over again, and after all, the ending didn't surprise me as much. It's a decent series, but I recommend it only if you have spare time and true love for fantasy books because you'll find nothing new and thrilling here.
One of the best trilogies I have had the pleasure to read...
Yep, I finally finished this gargantuan mediocre read.Nothing much left to say that I haven't already said in my reviews of the previous books in the series.
The evil beings the Norns that serve Pyrates are utterly chilling, the gardenborn Sithi majestic, and the League of Scrolls utterly joinable, what with its brilliant members who are dedicated to researching and deciphering the forces at work in the world of Osten Ard.I was sad to read the last book, for I didn’t want to leave the world and its complex characters.
A fantastic warming finish to a great series of book. Tad Williams is a tremendous author and a crafty storyteller. His world building abilities are top notch and his prose is marvelous. I listened to this series of books all the way through from the very beginning. I recommend the audiobooks for the Memory, Sorrow and Thorn books. Andrew Wincott is such a talented narrator. I loved his voice acting so much in this series. Great work all around 💯💯
I can see why Williams needed this much book to finish off his story. There was a lot more story left to be told, and I appreciate the attention paid to all the various elements. He kept my interest going strong, chapter after chapter, and did a wonderful job building the tension and developing the characters' arcs. I still had some beef about the female characters, but I loved pretty much everything else about the book, and the total experience was very satisfying. I would strongly recommend this series to anyone who enjoys epic fantasy adventures.
Fenomenalna trilogija. Najbolje knjige Tada Williamsa koje sam citao do sada.
