https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1513235.El_guila_y_La_Serpiente
For anyone interested in the Mexican Revolution, this book is essential reading.
Martín Luis Guzmán’s novelistic memoir is an eye-witness account of the turbulent years following the assassination of President Madero in 1911 through the collapse of the Convention of Aguascalientes in 1914.
Guzmán was a young, intellectual journalist when he left Mexico City to join the revolutionary forces rising up under Carranza, Obregón and Villa in the north.
His vignettes of these leaders, in particular his detailed portrait of Pancho Villa, are vividly rendered.
Harriet de Onis’ translation of Guzmán’s polished and erudite prose is splendid.
As an eyewitness account of the Mexican Revolution, you really can't beat this, although it is a strange combination of novel and memoir and essay that I'm not really used to reading.
I also realize I'm reading a translation, and not a very contemporary one, so at times it felt like someone repeating a story, rather than telling it.
I would assume reading the novel in Spanish is a different experience entirely.Aside from the historical relevance, this was worth reading for the examination of a good man, brought to inaction by personal ethics, in a time when bullets rule the day and the men who are willing to get their hands dirty will eventually decide the fate of the country with our without you.
El águila y la serpiente es una novela sobre la Revolución Mexicana publicada originalmente en 1928 por Martín Luis Guzmán. La novela autobiográfica se centra en los acontecimientos acaecidos entre 1913 y 1915 de la Revolución Mexicana y las experiencias de Guzmán durante el periodo. Cada capítulo describe a una persona o un evento durante la revolución, y el libro es popular por las descripciones de los líderes grandes, especialmente Francisco Villa
Porque el hijo de Mßxico (como el de todo nación que se sabe físicamente débil ante la naturaleza o ante el poder de otras naciones) compensa su debilidad refugiándose en una excesiva fe en la potencia del espíritu frente a frente de la fuerza bruta." The book serves as an elegy to a noble effort which ended in failure.
I read this a while ago and thought that I had put in a fast review.
I read it in English, "The Eagle and the Serpent', Translated from the Spanish by Harriet de Onís.It is the story of a young, educated, talented member of the upper classes in revolutionary Mexico, his adventures and involvement and interaction with important historical figures.
It is based on the huge range of activities of the author during the revolution but is not an autobiography, nor a history.
It is historical fiction written by one of the great writers and historians who actually participated and witnessed these happenings.
An excellent book about the Mexican Revolution... a classic... Martin Luis Guzman was there as a civilian. He refused to take up arms or join the army in any capacity, but he was a good friend of Pancho Villa. An educated and refined Mexican, Villa admired his intellect and his courage. Guzman held many different posts before and after the Revolution, he was a politian and a bureaucrat. He has some facinating tales to tell. An eye witness account of the leaders of the Revolution, political battles, the murder and bloodshed.
La edición de la real academia de la Lengua de México ha hecho una edición muy completa de este gran mosaico de colores, sabores, sentimientos y sensiblidad mexicana.
