https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513207.Champions_of_the_Force
If I ever, ever get the urge to re-read it again, somebody smack me in my face-ular area.In all seriousness, I can’t tell if this book was genuinely better than the last one or not, because I sped-read most of it, focused only on the parts that caught my attention, and skipped large chunks of it that seemed stupid or boring.
Yeah, a two year old wields a lightsaber.
Meanwhile the remnant of the Empire that is after the baby Jedi because REASONS?
What the what are you going to do with a BABY.
Leia is appointed Chief of State, and the Jedi students must find a way to bring Luke back from his Force induced coma and defeat Dark Lord Exar Kun.NOTE: Again, I listened to the audiobook, but have read the book in the past, though too long ago for me to remember perfectly.I Liked:First mention goes to Chewbacca, who actually has a job in this book besides standing by Han and moaning incomprehensibly!
After explaining why long hyperspace jumps are increasingly fatal, Anderson proceeds to have people make "direct" and Inner Galactic Core to Outer Core jumps with no casualties.
The latter would be improbable to the point of certain death--or least being jerked out of hyperspace by proximity to some gravity well.He also starts with the Maw being an almost impenetrable collection of Black Holes, then has people popping in and out on various routes, including the "back door" and a brute force (un-Force assisted) jump.
Anderson apparently doesn't understand what a black hole is or, more likely, assumes his readers don't.
Again, I have some problems with this book. The biggest of the three problems is that there is no definitive plot throughout the book. Stuff just keeps happening to the characters that isn't necessarily connected to anything else that happened. Perhaps one of the most annoying things for me in this book is the complete incompetency of every villian in this entire trilogy. They are all ridiculously dumb. A lot of the actions of the characters were stupid as well. The trilogy could be improved greatly if the main characters possessed a shred of intelligence.
An okay finish to this trilogy. Kind of ho-hum after the first two. Also, it leaned a lot on cliches from the original movies - Han said, "don't quote me the odds" every other page it seemed.
As "Star Wars" books generally go, they are read for their plot and interesting conflicts much more than for artistic merit and technique.
Anderson's books in the past, including "Star Wars" and other sci-fi, and this isn't one of his best.
Nor do I need to be entertained with such literary morsels as: "Mara Jade wore only a tight-fitting jumpsuit; her curves looked like hazardous paths through a complicated planetary system." *gag* At moments like this, Mr. Anderson sounds like he's fourteen years old.Since the plot also failed to hold my attention, there is little enjoyment to be had here.
The book is tolerable, but I think I've had my fill of Mr. Anderson's writing for several years.
Who's the bad guy?Is it the slave lord?
Not really?The imperial Admiral and her 4 star destroyers?
3 Star Destroy...
Nope, 2 Star De...
Nope, Damn.The spirit of the Lord of the Sith?
Nope.
The imperial ambassador?The prototype Death Star?The new Sun Crusher super weapon?This apprentice of Luke's?
Who is turning to the dark side?
Nope, he just died without a fight.What about this other apprentice?
He looks like he is turning too?Maybe the author was trying to capture the confusion of a war, that while in the mopping up stage, has a lot of things in need of mopping.
A really nice way to round the series off, enjoyed this much more than book 2
This may have been the worst Star Wars book I've read so far.
The author, Kevin J.
Anderson, has written some pretty good Science Fiction.
But not this time.
The story was contrived, the characters were not well developed (I didn't care about any of them), their interactions were juvenile; and what happens is easily predictable.
It's like Anderson just through this story together on a whiteboard and then filled in the necessary dialogue.
It was frustrating reading for me.
I actually yelled at the book/author multiple times.
They can't all be good.
Seems like there's about 100 Star Wars books out now.
Some have been pretty good.
This series sucked pretty badly.
FIRST THOUGHTS: Who would have thought a Star Wars book would make me tear up? Not me! But that's exactly what happened with this one. All in all, a fitting conclusion, with a steady pace and intricately woven multiple plots!
Este libro es muy posiblemente un 2,5.No hay muchos cambios con respecto al anterior, los problemas que había antes siguen existiendo en este último. Aunque la historia tiene algunos buenos puntos acerca de la Academia Jedi o de los personajes. En conjunto está por debajo del nivel de las otras historias de Star Wars. Seguimos repitiendo cosas que ya sabemos y no se han tomado riesgos a la hora de explicar las enseñanzas de los Jedi ni en las historias secundarias.Por lo que el libro o la saga pasa sin pena ni gloria.
This series suffered from a severe overabundance of enemies (and plotlines).
I understand that it's probably important to review important plot points in subsequent books so that readers don't have to go back and reread before each new book comes out, but this was too, too much.
Really the best example of the annoying side of this is that everyone had to keep repeating Kyp's full name.
Near the end, in fear, Han yells, "Kyp!
Kyp Durron!" That is completely ludicris.
Regardless of this review, I did enjoy the basic plot of this series and much of the writing therein.
The Good: This finale of the trilogy was pretty good. I liked the writing style, and the narrative kept me involved.The Bad: The chapters were rather short, which wasted a lot of space; that's something that often annoys me in books.Conclusion: Star Wars fans will enjoy this; others won't...but, you already knew that, right?
These were the first Star Wars novels I read, and as such, they have a special place in my heart. I can't really judge them objectively, but if I tried, I'd say they're not as technically impressive as Zahn's Thrawn trilogy, but they're still very entertaining.
Luke simply meanders about these books repeating platitudes from the movies and acting like a shadow of his true self.(2) Kyp: Kyp Durron is a fascinating character, not least of all because he's essentially the first Anakin/Kylo Ren of the Star Wars universe.
Seriously, a character who rejects the teachings of his master, embraces the secrets of the Dark Side, then falls headfirst into the Dark Side after he attempts to kill his former master and loses a family member (wife [Anakin], father [Kylo], or brother [Kyp])?
This was the book with the most action, especially the end when everyone shows up to where the trouble all began, the Maw Installation.Good riddance to the Sun Crusher and Death Star prototype in the black hole.
I just know she'll show up again in another book now, especially when she downloaded info and plans from the Maw's computers.Kyp, glad he made it back from the dark side after Exar Kun's defeat.
It was reminiscent of the end of A New Hope.Lots of subplots and character's but not overcrowded and not a dull read at all.Having read the books that precede this set and getting to know some EU characters and story lines I came out liking The Jedi Academy Trilogy more now than when I was 13.
Also, I know that parenting is kind of lax in the Star Wars universe and you were under severe amounts of stress at the time, but Han, Leia, perhaps its best if you don't leave your precious Jedi children at a dark temple built by an evil Sith, and where one student almost kills Luke under the influence of evil.Meanwhile, in another part of the galaxy, Kyp Durron, the Jedi wunderkind turned crazed loon is in possession of the Sun Crusher, a weapon even more powerful than the Death Star, and is using it to wreak a personal vendetta against the remnants of the Empire, including one scene where he causes the sun around the Imperial planet of Carida to go nova, killing millions, possibly billions.Kyp's family were political idealists who believed that if they worked through the proper channels, they would be able to get the Emperor to step down from office, they were eventually thrown into the mines of Kessel after making too much noise, whilst Kyp's brother Zeth was sent to be conscripted at the Imperial military academy...
Champions Of The Force is the third and final book of the series, and mainly exists to wrap up all of the plot threads.
Many of the Jedi recruits had little to no character development in the series too, and I expected more of them to be concentrated on in this instalment.There was more action in this book with a battle occurring at the end to conclude some of the Imperial's fates.
And while Durron was left criminally underused in Dark Apprentice, this time Anderson has learnt his lesson.The first half of the book or so is a flawless "rip-roaring space adventure" of exactly the sort envisioned by George Lucas when he set about developing the Original Trilogy.
However, considering that the second instalment of Anderson's trilogy consisted almost entirely of filler, and that the second half of this book was largely preoccupied with wrapping up all of the threads left over from Dark Apprentice, I can't help but feel that the Jedi Academy series could have been condensed into two volumes without significant loss.
I'm fine with multiple bad guys, but this was Batman level of bad guys with the same issue that many Batman shows/movies/comics have; when you have too many characters or villains, the plot weakens because you can't focus on any one in particular.
The result is a weak ending to everyone's story instead of a nice fleshed out story for a handful of characters.
He also relied heavily on movie quotes and repeated them relentlessly instead of creating new dialogue.I definitely recommend the entire trilogy as the general story definitely contributes to the Star Wars universe.
Just don't expect a great ending.
Instead, expect a Return of the Jedi type ending :P
The bureaucracy on Maw Installation and the battle with Exar Kun are probably the best parts of the book.
Outside of that, the same problems persist.
And Lando, for some reason Kevin J.
Anderson thought that Lando being that creepy guy at the bar that everyone avoids would be...charming?
Probably the biggest problem with the entire trilogy is it's too ambitious.
I'm going to continue to read Star Wars novels, but I think I'll keep my distance from Mr. Anderson unless one of his books or trilogies comes HIGHLY recommended to me.

The first time I read this trilogy about two years ago I probably rated it around two and a half to three stars.
Now that I’ve read it again(along with the the first book Jedi search) it’s a solid four stars across the board.
Definitely better the second time around.There are VERY stupid elements to this( the Jedi babies) however reading Jedi search for the first time really helped me get past that because badass Jedi babies aren’t in Jedi search.
The better storylines in these books are the ones involving Kyp Durron, Luke Skywalker, and one if my favorite characters in legends canon: admiral Daala.
Have you ever seen that meme about seemingly everything being wrapped up and there being two hundred pages left? Yeah, that's this book. Yet all is not as it seems.I still stand by my previous statement that the Solos need to run away and change their name.The character arcs for Ackbar and Kyp are most rewarding. Each of them goes on a journey that borh humbles them and teaches them that each person is needed to fight the war.I'm not sure, but at the end, were Winter and Ackbar flirting? Or do I spend too much time on Pinterest?
They aim to gain the technology and resources that may be useful to them, and then destroy the Maw, but some of the scientists have escaped in the Death Star prototype!On Kessel, Lando and Mara Jade are aiming to become business partners using the mines of Kessel for its glitterstim in more legal ways than Doole.
Meh pretty much covers this book.
it's fine, it's readable as a story but this is not what one would hope for or expect from the Star Wars EU especially the ending of a trilogy.
So many things just happen for the sake of having things happen, and a number of characters are depicted in a way that they never were before and never are after, which surprises me because they are usually spot on with that in the EU for the most part.
This series has pretty much put me off reading the rest of his star wars books, as this series was extremely disappointing.
Oof. Better than the rest of the Jedi Academy trilogy, but still bad. The dialogue has improved, but still awful. Famous lines from the original trilogy are repeated ad nauseum.Leia has still given up on the force, because...women, eh?The author really wants you to know that Lando likes Mara Jade's curves.And oh no, there is a 22% complete death star stuck in a maze of black holes, and one star destroyer with a skeleton crew. The champions did not have much of a challenge.
Ogólnie trylogia mi się bardzo podoba. Szkoda, że poznałem "Ja, Jedi" wcześniej, więc przestrzegam przed tym. W tym ostatnim tomie akcji jest aż nadto - co osobiście uważam za zaletę. Nie rozumiem po co Disney wziął się za coś nowego tworząc siódmą część SW, skoro miał już gotową taką książkę - ekranizacja jej byłaby 10 razy lepsza, niż to co im wyszło.
I actually enjoy Anderson's writing usually but this third novel of a mediocre trilogy set in the Star Wars is .... mediocre, as were the first two. Basically the storyline of the trilogy - Luke begins a Jedi school and he has to find and train future Jedi Knights. Along the way some are seduced by the dark side. Some decent action scenes.
2* for star wars but the writing is awful, contrived, lacking creativity and repeating descriptions over and over and over. I would guess he got paid by the characters used. Some potentially great characters weren't developed and floundered in mediocrity.
