https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338582.The_Tarzan_Twins
This was written just a few years before the appearance of the first comic book sidekick, Robin the Boy Wonder, and it was probably meant to serve the same purpose.
If you don't know what I'm talking about, ask your parents - or grandparents.) In this case, two first cousins are called the Tarzan twins for rather tortured reasons.
It seems their mothers were twin sisters and one married an American and stayed in the States while the other one married a distant cousin of Lord Greystoke and settled in England.
This is more like a children book offshoot of the Tarzan series.
Two young boys, one a relative of Tarzan, travel to a visit Tarzan’s compound and get lost along the way.
They end up having a similar, but short adventure as when Tarzan’s son (and everyone else) has gotten lost in the jungle.Footnote: 1) Why in the world with they let two young boys travel by themselves to Africa of all places.
Anybody who know young boys knows how they so easy get into mischief.
They could have at least hired somebody to travel with them.
This was a cute kiddie-tale in which two boys en route to visit the cousin of one of them, Tarzan, get very lost in the jungle and encounter a series of life threatening adventures, including, surprise, cannibals! This book would probably make Tarzan purists very upset since, presented as a Tarzan book, Tarzan is given but a few passing mentions and only appears at the very end. Even so, if you are determined to finish the Tarzan series, this one will provide a fun, adventurous, and humorous way to kill a few hours and a few brain cells.
This one was a lot shorter and had a lot less Tarzan, but was still good. I finished in in an hour or less.
Two schoolboys, one from England, the other from the United States, are invited to spend their holidays in Africa with their distant uncle Tarzan.
They get lost on the way, narrowly escape a lion, and are captured by cannibals.
While being fattened up for the big village feast, the boys quickly learn the language, outwit the cannibals with schoolboy magic tricks, and plan a daring escape.
Tarzan makes a cameo appearance at the end with his faithful Waziri, to rescue the boys and commend them for their bravery.
This book is hilarious! The Tarzan Twins are first cousins and were born on the same day, and one of them is a distant relative of Lord Greystoke, thus their friends called them "Tarzan Twins". They wanted to live up to the name, so became very physically active. Plus they are clever. So when they are invited to visit Tarzan in Africa, the 14 year old boys jump at the chance. Enter a train derailment, walk into the jungle, and many adventures. I loved this book.
This novella was written by Edgar Rice Burroughs for younger readers. It was originally published in October 1927. It is far from Burroughs' best writing. I don't think Burroughs was a racist, but this story has more racial stereotypes in it than just about any of his other works. The story itself plods along in a very predictable fashion.
This is an attempt by Burroughs to write a juvenile book and it really didn't work. I didn't care for it at all. The edition I have is from Wildside Press. Someone who is collecting ERB and wants to have a complete run of the Tarzan stories might want it.
Although the story was OK, I doubt that I would want my children reading it because of the racial stereotyping in the book.
I liked this book. I would have loved it when I was younger. I can't wait to read it with my son.
