https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37186.The_Miraculous_Journey_of_Edward_Tulane
I took a chance on it and purchased it from Barnes and Noble to read with my kids.The story begins with Edward Tulane, a China rabbit who belongs to a girl named Abilene.
Eventually Abilene’s grandmother shares a story with Abilene and Edward about a princess who refused to love anyone and was turned into a warthog by a witch.
I honestly question how this book didn’t win awards and wish they’d do a film adaptation.The book is obviously great for any age, but I personally felt like some of the vocabulary seemed a bit advanced for 1st and 2nd graders as the recommended age listed for this book on Amazon is 6-9.
I always say I have, probably because I want to believe that (and anyway, we all do it), but not every book is great and not every great book is exceptional.
I want exceptional.
It tells the story of little china bunny Edward Tulane who knows not what love means.
He is loved by a little girl, and yet, he doesn’t care.
But little Edward Tulane will discover what love means the way we all do: through loss… through life.
I think Kate DiCamillo can do no wrong, but she really surpassed herself with this one.
"It is a horrible, terrible thing, the worst thing, to watch somebody you love die right in front of you and not be able to do nothing about it." Once upon a time, there was a poignant and philosophical tale about a solipsistic, egocentric china rabbit named Edward Tulane. The rabbit was loved by a little girl named Abilene. Albeit loved by his owner, he was incapable of loving others. One day, he was magically cursed by Pellegrina, the girl's grandmother who gifted her the narcissistic bunny.
Once upon a time, there was a poignant and philosophical tale about a solipsistic, egocentric china rabbit named Edward Tulane.
The rabbit was loved by a little girl named Abilene.
Once, there was a rabbit who swore to himself that he would never love again.
"How many times, Edward wondered, would he have to leave without getting the chance to say goodbye?""Edward knew what it was like to say over and over again the names of those you had left behind.
He swore to himself that no matter what happens, his heart must go on.
I looked forward to reading this book because, as the review on goodreads of Edward Tulane says, Kate DiCamillo is an incomparable children's author, and I have loved and cried over The Tale of Despereaux and The Tiger Rising in the middle of the Borders Cafe before.
Edward's journey is miraculous in that the little china rabbit from which the book gets its name learns to love out of his many losses, which starts with losing his straw hat and ends with losing his hardened heart.
And I think it's worth it for most anyone to take 30 minutes at the most, sit down, and read about how a China rabbit learns to love.
What a beautiful story. I read it with my 8 year old daughter and more than once it brought a tear to my eye. It is the story of Edward Tulane, the china rabbit, who while passing from owner to owner (companions really, as he comes to love them) endures great love and great tragedy. He learns that no matter what happens in life it is most important to open your heart....let yourself love and be loved.
I was just trapped underground on a backed up metro train for an hour. Never have I minded, or noticed, a terrible commute less.
I read this book out loud to my class and truly enjoyed the masterful way that Kate DiCamillo crafts a story.
My class LOVED this story but it was sad, extremely sad in places.
(Losing people you love.) Initially, I thought I would not recommend it nor read it again because it was just too strong.
However, the more I considered this, the more I realized that to not recommend this book would be to make the same mistake that Edward made, and that is to refuse to experience something wonderful just because it can also be hard.
You'd think I wouldn't cry after the third read, but all I can say is that I'm glad I skipped the eye makeup today...
When a friend told me she was reading this book with her 3 and 5 year old kids, I immediately questioned whether they found it too sad.
Inspired by my friends successful reading of it with her two (slightly) younger children, I bravely undertook this venture - for it was really me I was worried about being able to "handle" it.
I was not able to hold back the tears as the story drew to a close, but my two beautiful boys wiped them away and assured me that there was nothing to be sad about, and I got the opportunity (one that seems to present itself quite often lately) to explain how tears can come from happiness as much as from sadness.
While sitting in Washington Square Park reading my Moomins novel while on a mini-lunch break I wondered about the recurring use of sadness and melancholy in the book.
Do American children books usually refer to the the joys of a sweet melancholy feeling at the lose of something good that will never return?
This book is to the Moomins as finding yourself laying in bed staring at the ceiling at 3am realizing that half your life is over all the good things are past and only pain and regret are ahead of you and having a slightly sad tinged memory of a something wonderful in the past that you will never be able to return to.
This story reminded me of "The Velveteen Rabbit". A little less magical, perhaps, but I appreciated the story of a rabbit who, instead of starting out full of love, learns to love and be loved until at the end of the story, he comes full circle. Easy reading, and could be a good one for reading out loud.
This is one of those eternally relevant children's stories, that can be read by all ages throughout all of time.
I'm only now discovering this tale at the age of 28 and just know that if my younger self had managed to get her hands on it, it would have become a firm, forever favourite.The reader travels with a china rabbit named Edward Tulane through, as the synopsis states, "the depths of the ocean to the net of a fisherman, from the bedside of an ailing child to the bustling streets of Memphis".
Don't let the age range for this wonderful story put you off reading it, it has as much to give any reader as any other children's classic.
Nhân cái dịp ốm này, tôi lấy Edward Tulane ra khỏi nơi cất giấu - tôi mua chú vào một ngày tôi lượn sách cũ, trong đầu cũng nắm được một chút thông tin là cuốn này đã đi vào hồi tuyệt diệt (sau tái bản, hồi đấy hot còn vì có cái phim bỏ mẹ gì của Hàn Quốc có thằng cu đẹp giai nằm đọc trên giường cuốn này BÌA CỨNG T_T)Nói chung tôi đã sai lầm.
Tôi nằm đọc một mạch, và khi gấp trang cuối lại, tôi mới dám "thở" - tức là cuốn sách đã lôi cuốn tôi đến mức ấy.Một câu chuyện đẹp.
During his wanderings Edward has many experiences which teach him about friendship, love, hope and happiness: he spends time with an adorable old woman and her husband, then with a hobo, then with a little girl who is ill but who cuddles him like a baby and melts his heart.The transitions between each stage of the journey are difficult for Edward, but he does finally arrive exactly where he belongs, in a perfect misty-eyed ending that I should have expected but didn't.
By the end of the story I loved Edward as if he were my very own.
My first DiCamillo read.I was blown away.I thought this was a simple story about love. I was wrong about it being simple, because it showed how complicated life and love really were. It was touching, it was classic, it was.. very heartbreaking.The first book to get me teary-eyed one of these days.I love it.
This is such a beautiful book, I remember reading it as a child and not quite understanding it's meaning, but I still enjoyed it. It is a book seemingly meant for children, but reading between the lines of this story is what really pulls your heart strings. I could read it over and over again.
I have to say that I am quite fond of Kate DiCamillo's writing, and Maggie and I very much enjoyed reading this book together.
Maggie even asked me later last night, after we had finished the book and she was getting ready to brush her teeth, "Why do people write about sad things, Mom?" Ah - innocence slips away in small parcels.
There is a wonderfully taught fairy tale in the midst of the story, and DiCamillo does not hesitate to leave sadness hanging in the air, strings untied, mean circumstances uncured, and yet somehow comes around to a happy ending.
I moved this review to my blog
When I read those stories in my distant youth, they spoke to me.
Even though I know that authors, do exactly that to make a point.What charmed me about this book was having it read to me in 20 minute segments at night by one of my grand children.
And hearing the beauty of the 'story telling voice' in this book that does not shrink from a sophisticated vocabulary in choosing the right word over the simpler word.So, this book was a 3 star for me, and 5 star for the child who read it to me.
What a sweet and tender journey!
Isn't it interesting how we often take things for granted until they're gone?
Edward doesn't realize how good his life is until he isn't living it anymore.
In an adventure through all walks of life, Edward learns some very important lessons and values that just might help him to grow a true heart.
Although this is a children's book, my emotions were tapped into.
The highest of highs and the lowest of lows are experienced and this is definitely one book that everyone should read, as it hits that sweet spot of the heart.
I think Kate DiCamillo is a special writer because she can write about china rabbits being loved by little girls and my son shifts quickly from soft pillow to sitting up rapt waiting for what comes next.I cannot wait to read another of her books.
I was in rapt attention myself.This is the story of a china rabbit who is loved by a little girl named Abilene.
I first read a library copy of this book several years ago to my oldest son, after it was recommended to me by my sister-in-law and having previously read Kate DiCamillo's Mercy Watson series for beginning readers as well as The Tale of Despereaux.
Recently, I picked up a copy of this book along with The Magician's Elephant, yet another gem by the same author, to have at home for the kiddos.In between books, I decided to re-read The Miraculous Journey of Edward Tulane while doing my morning walk on the treadmill.
And once again I am in awe of Kate DiCamillo.
Her stories are timeless, beautifully written, magical and filled with memorable moments and memorable characters.
Can't say that about many contemporary stories.
Edward is sort of like a narcissistic Velveteen Rabbit, unlikeable at the best of times, but when his life turns upside-down he finds himself in a world of sadness and confusion... the only world with true friends, the only world where he can learn the meaning and power of love. This is a book that every child (and adult for that matter!) should get the chance to read, and with its vivid full-color illustrations it really stands out among other children's stories.
Nhân vật chính là chú thỏ sứ đồ chơi tuyệt đẹp, bằng những trải nghiệm và biến đổi tinh tế trong tình cảm và suy nghĩ đã dẫn dắt người đọc qua hành trình đầy cảm động đi tìm tình yêu - khởi đầu từ việc chỉ biết nhận tình yêu từ người khác và coi đó là hiển nhiên tất yếu, đến lúc mất rồi mới bắt đầu thấy quý giá, bắt đầu học lắng nghe và quan tâm, buồn khổ khi phải rời xa người thân yêu mà không thể nói lời tạm biệt, mở rộng trái tim với những người xa lạ, cảm giác bất lực khi không thể giúp đỡ người bên cạnh, tan nát cõi lòng khi phải nhìn người thân yêu mất đi, mệt mỏi tuyệt vọng vì chia ly và đơn độc, học cách yêu thương một lần nữa - đó là hành trình của tất cả mọi người, không chừa một ai.
“You are down there alone, the stars seemed to say, and we are up here, in our constellations, together. - [But] "I have been loved," said Edward to the stars.” I don't think words can accurately describe how much  I loved this book,  by the end of the last page, I couldn't even read the words properly because of stream of tears cascading down my face. It is poignant and heart-breaking, it will pull all the right strings and call out nostalgia from the deepest corners of your soul. Beautifully
“You are down there alone, the stars seemed to say, and we are up here, in our constellations, together.
- [But] "I have been loved," said Edward to the stars.”
I don't think words can accurately describe how much 
I loved this book,
by the end of the last page, I couldn't even read the words properly because of stream of tears cascading down my face.
It is poignant and heart-breaking, it will pull all the right strings and call out nostalgia from the deepest corners of your soul.
تخيل نفسك فقط طفلا وتأكد أنك ستستمع بهذه القصة الشيقة  إنك طفل هذا كل ما تحتاجه القصة أن تكون طفلا لتفهم قصصت هذه القصة على أحد الأطفال ووجدت كل انتباهه معي منذ البداية وحتى النهاية وهو مالم يحدث منذ وقت طويل
but this one nearly had me in tears by the end.My mom read this one herself years ago, long before I'd discovered Kate DiCamillo's books.
It's probably one of the best reads I've had all year.DiCamillo has this way of writing for kids that challenges them and respects them as intelligent readers.
In other ways, I was reminded of stories like The Velveteen Rabbit, with the theme of a toy being loved so much that it eventually becomes real.
Edward was always "real", though; his journey had more to do with being his best rabbit self.The illustrations are the perfect complement to the gentle story.
“Edward Tulane” plays a key role in the highly popular K-drama “My Love From the Stars” which was voted Korea’s favorite program earlier this year.
Throughout the story, the mysterious alien claims that “Edward Tulane” is a reflection of his own life as well as his key to understanding human emotion and experience.It is easy to see why this otherworldly visitor would be charmed by “Edward Tulane.” DiCamillo’s appealing tale tells the life story of a haughty, vain and prideful china rabbit – the eponymous Edward.
Edward’s story begins in the 1930’s when he is given as a birthday present to Abilene; an adoring ten year old girl who loves Edward unconditionally.
L. Stevenson hoặc Robinson Crusoe (Daniel Defoe), nhưng như đã nói mình chỉ đọc quyển này khi không còn nhỏ nên chỉ có thể cho 4+* thôi.Đây đúng là câu chuyện phiêu lưu kỳ diệu, với những diễn biến đầy bất ngờ không thể đoán định trước, khởi đầu có lẽ bằng câu chuyện đầy bất thường của người bà kể cho cô cháu gái, cô chủ nhỏ của con thỏ bằng sứ - nhân vật chính của truyện, trước chuyến viễn dương đến những cuộc phiêu lưu đầy gian truân, hiểm nguy của chú thỏ sứ đưa chú từ thế giới dưới đáy biển sâu qua thế giới của bãi rác, đến với cặp vợ chồng già cuối đời, anh em cậu bé nghèo khổ, hay những người lang thang để rồi về nằm trên giá của một cửa hiệu mua bán (+ sửa chữa) những đồ chơi cũ.Chú thỏ sứ trong chuyện đúng là một chú thỏ đồ chơi thật sự, theo ý nghĩa tác giả không để cho chú tự đi lại như trong tình huống của những câu chuyện giả tưởng khác, kiểu như Toy Story hoặc một vài chuyện khác.
I never review children's books, though I read aloud no less than three a day.
This whopper of a book was 200 pages of masterful writing with gorgeous illustrations.
The language was a little high for children but made the story so enjoyable for the reader.Aside from this beautiful love affair with the English language was this lovely, lovely story about the redeeming quality of love...accepting love, suffering love, and healing through love.
I was literally incapable of reading the final page aloud and that was the second time in the book that I was choking back tears.
Powerful, beautiful, masterful...a book to be treasured.
