https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/723636.The_Long_View
Beautifully written.Richly perceptive of ones emotions.Moving backwards in time reveals a portrait of a marriage.Antonia looks at her life and the choices she has made.Do we know what love is?This novel cuts to the heart with an eye for detail.I loved it!
Ci fu il silenzio completo e sinistro che sempre segue una valanga di quelle proporzioni."Ho letto questo libro allo stesso modo in cui ho guardato La corrispondenza, il film di Giuseppe Tornatore.
Non ci sono paragoni tra i due, ma voglio dire che l'ho letto con una tale partecipazione che non so dire se sia un bel libro davvero.
Poi però l'ultima parte è forse la più debole, la tensione cala, le parole aumentano, è tutto troppo descritto, nonostante sia quella che racconta come tutto è iniziato.
After reading this story of Conrad, an interesting but selfish, difficult, and unlikable man, and his wife, Antonia, who searches for his approval over what feels like a lifetime, anyone might pause before getting married.Howard paints a portrait of life (and marriage) in mid-20th century London.
But the sadness of a world in which love seems impossible and marriage at best a waste of people’s lives and at worst the opportunity for people to destroy someone (or themselves), becomes increasingly painful.Perhaps it is just that by the second half of the book I could hardly bear to be around Conrad and the damage he wreaks but I found the story weaker and less compelling than the first half.
The Long View, by Elizabeth Jane Howard, narrated by Mary Wimbush, produced by BBC-WW, downloaded from audible.comThe main story is about a couple, Antonia and Conrad.
This is the contemporary version of their marriage, basically a loveless marriage in which Antonia spent her life trying, and failing, to please Conrad, who married her because he thought he would have the pleasure of shaping her adult life.
The first part of the book leaves us wondering why Antonia puts up with Conrad.
The second part of the book deals with when Antonia met Conrad, in the late 1930’s, and how he wanted to shape her every activity.
Gawd. This is a bleak backwardly constructed view of a marriage, told through the eyes of a woman who has been quite depleted by the various men in her life. The telling is rich, poetic and highly controlled, as one would expect from the genius EJH. Rewarding and revealing.
storia di un matrimonio a ritroso nel tempo- e già dalle prime pagine si intuisce il carico immenso di dolore e il terribile fallimento. magistrale sia nelle descrizioni delle atmosfere che nelle caratterizzazioni dei personaggi, ma inesorabile e drammatico, senza nemmeno un filo di speranza (non si sfugge alla condanna all'infelicità).
This is the sort of story that makes marriage (for a woman) seem like something to be avoided.
The marriage between Antonia and Conrad is followed between different periods, and it is a cold, loveless one.
The reason I didn't love it was it brought me down and I didn't like the men at all.
I am not a man hater, but this book will test you.Self-centered men, everyone at their worst.
But I understand the story, this isn't a book about beautiful love.
This is more about loving wrongly, and why did Antonia stay with this man anyway?
'[She had] an expanse of face too large for unhappily delicate features: minutely thin pale eyebrows, small blue eyes, a child's nose, and a tiny mouth; so that her expression was constantly like somebody trying to have a large party in a room with inadequate furniture.' The Long View is heartbreaking, compelling and so human, and also littered with casual GEMS like the one above. I absolutely love ol' EJH.
A volte le sembrava di odiarlo: a volte le sembrava di amarlo tanto da poter avvizzire e morire sotto la sferza silenziosa della sua indifferenza.
Antonia pare quasi incapace anche di proteggere i figli da errori che le ricordano scelte passate.A volte le sembrava di odiarlo: a volte le sembrava di amarlo tanto da poter avvizzire e morire sotto la sferza silenziosa della sua indifferenza.
Si aggrappava sempre a lui o a se stessa, non ce la faceva ad affrontare la somma dei rispettivi sentimenti.“Il lungo sguardo” mostra la crisi di un matrimonio , i sentimenti che attraversano i protagonisti ancorati in posizioni distanti, incapaci di incontrarsi e nemmeno di voltarsi.
The novel has a very interesting structure, beginning in 1950 when the couple in question – Antonia and Conrad Fleming – have been married for twenty-three years, and then winding back in time to 1942, 1937 and 1927, the time of their honeymoon.
In this respect, it mirrors the structure of François Ozon’s excellent film, 5×2, which focuses on five key timepoints in the disintegration of a middle-class marriage, presenting them in reverse order.
Crucially, Howard’s story finishes in 1926 just before Antonia meets her future husband for the first time.
While the story is presented mostly from the perspective of Antonia, there are times when we are given access to Conrad’s thoughts, albeit intermittently.To read my review, please visit:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2017...
This book isn't at all what it seemed from the first chapter, which I thought would be something like a literary, well-written soapy novel. Instead, the chapters go back in time to reveal the main character's life and marriage. It's puzzling at times, but beautifully written and deeply psychological. I liked it a lot.Inspired to read this on the basis of a printed recommendation by Hilary Mantel: http://www.theguardian.stfi.re/books/...
There aren't enough superlatives to describe how good this is. So clever, such a way with language, I've been in awe throughout.The dissected history of a marriage from 1950 working backwards to 1927. Conrad Fleming is a Svengali-like figure who has moulded his wife; dictating everything about her from what she wears to her opinions. Mrs Fleming — we don't discover her name until halfway through the novel — appears cool, detached, uncaring and the novel traces her development into this creature brilliantly.In my head James Mason was Conrad and Claire Bloom Antonia. Delicious.
*2.5/5So many conflicting thoughts about this one!I think the choice of using reverse chronology to describe the development of the Flemings’ marriage is a really good one: it makes you go back to what you’ve just read and change perspective.
But then it focuses only on the Flemings, slowly unravelling the story of their marriage.
I usually love books with unlikeable characters, but for the whole time I could not understand nor sympathize with both Conrad and Antonia.
On the other side, Antonia is spineless and totally lacks of character.
From the start where we're told of a wife 'sinking to the occasion' of organising a house party, where people would consume 'glazed dazed little pieces of food', we realise that this is not going to be a story about a story but about the author's writing style.
Finding a character's point of view is made more difficult because the author keeps inserting her own external view, as when a character is reminded that she should 'take tea (that horrible unnecessary meal designed to make unsatisfied women more unsatisfactory) with' another woman.This tale is like a gossip columnist of the day sneering at all the pillars of society.
It could be called The Long Read or The Long Reference List.The characters are sad, selfish and unlikable at the beginning.
There seems to be a good amount of character development as you move back in time thru the story of the family and marriage.
that, had I took the time to look up, would have further impeded my ability to maintain the story flow.
Whatever it is, I am not going to spend any more of my time digging thru the endless tangential references to decipher it.
The rationalized misogyny, the forced relationship norms, and the white privileged undertone undergirds this book the same way that it does in Mad Men. These flaws of the characters realistically reflect the time.
She captures pretty well, for example, the way couples bicker or people get carried away by an idea.
If you loved Mad Men, you would enjoy this book.I wonder if Conrad is a psychopath though, the way that he constantly breaks people down and explain their behavior in terms of artificial groupings (e.g., ``Responsibility succeeds desire--some men enjoy one, and some the other--that's all'' (part 3, ch.9)).
She begins her tale at the end of an unhappy marriage and cleverly plots backwards finishing at the beginning of Mr & Mrs Fleming's love affair.
Most of the novel is seen through Antonia Fleming's eyes and it is heartbreaking as it's clear she's married a highly unusual and emotionally unavailable man.
It's a heartbreaking read but oh the skill of Howard showing every emotional nuance so that you experience all of it directly yourself.
Not a read for stupid people looking for upmarket chick lit and I think this is possibly her best and certainly a novel that is right up there alongside Virginia Woolf's Mrs Dalloway.
4.5-5/5Elizabeth Jane Howard, scrittrice pressoché sconosciuta in Italia (benché qualcosa stia cambiando grazie alla traduzione in corso di una delle sue maggiori opere, The Cazalet Chronicles), è una raffinata narratrice, che sa scrutare con discrezione ma accuratezza l’animo umano e le dinamiche interpersonali.Quello che forse è considerato il suo capolavoro è Il lungo sguardo.La storia si apre su una Londra del 1950, a casa del signor e della signora Fleming, Conrad e Antonia, sposati da 23 anni.
Hanno due figli: Julian e Deidre, dai caratteri opposti, uno controllato ai limiti dell’impassabile, con le sue rigide idee dello status quo sociale dell’uomo e della donna, l’altra vulcanica, volubile e passionale.
Julian sta per sposarsi, mentre Deidre passa da un invaghimento all’altro.Continua a leggere
Tra una data e l’altra, andando a ritroso nel tempo, la storia dei coniugi Fleming, della e delle loro famiglie, passando attraverso gli anni di guerra, una vacanza sulla costa francese, la luna di miele a Parigi e più indietro ancora, fino al primo incontro.Un rapporto, narrato da una madre-moglie-figlia, da subito complicato e complesso, a tratti, lunghi tratti, più una lotta sfiancante, snervante.
Apparenze, bugie, tradimenti, crolli a cementarne l’unione.La prosa di Elizabeth Jane Howard è sofisticata, riflessiva, capace di indagare a fondo nei rapporti e nella psicologia dei personaggi da lei creati, ma insistendo a volte forse un po’ troppo nel perdersi tra le pieghe di pensieri stratificati, rischiando così di dare la sensazione di ritrovarsi in ambienti asettici, un’ipotetica barriera tra scrittore e lettore.http://www.subliminalpop.com/?p=9185
But the story moves backward in time, so as you read on, the oppression lessens and some rays of light leak in.
By the time I was at the end, there were some actual, enjoyable, light-hearted moments mixed in with the bittersweet.Except...the story moves backward in time.
So by the time you get to the end and you're almost hopeful, you realize it's all already over, you already know what's going to happen, it's going to turn out like it was on the first page, and there's no hope.
An enjoyable book about a marriage and how it came about. The storyline works backwards over 24 years and although the husband, Conrad Fleming, is an absolutely ghastly, manipulative character who you really wouldn't want to spend any time with. It's an interesting peek into a time when women were treated as little more than an extension of their husband - if they married the wrong sort.
This book is brilliantly written - the description both of the surroundings, and insights into the character of the main players, is amazing. I gave it only 3 stars because, although I appreciate the talent of Elizabeth Jane Howard, I found it rather hard going in places.
Another interesting narrative structure, in fact very similar to The Night Watch. Not one of my favourite EJH books, but still enjoyable and well written. Perhaps not one for reading if you were feeling a bit cynical about love!
Loved it. A brutal, devastating account of a marriage - scarifying (almost) in its intense examination of control & domination.
Brilliantly written, though difficult to read at times, as the structure of the whole book is backwards and the subject matter is dark. Overall, thought provoking and admirablly different :)
He is loved by Toni, as we later learn Mrs Fleming to be called, primarily because she hates her mother.Back in 1950, her husband is about to leave her and her two children are launching into relationships that look set to be disastrous.
Dumped by the man, she turns quickly to a man who loves her pathetically.As we go backwards in time, we discover that Mr Fleming, Conrad, has had many affairs, including one with a much younger woman, Imogen, who shares an innocence with the young Toni, whom we encounter later in the book.

Nel romanzo nulla è lasciato al caso: l'ambiente altolocato in cui si muovono tutti i personaggi è rappresentato dettagliatamente e sono descritti con dovizie di particolari i sentimenti della protagonista che ne fanno emergere i tratti peculiari del carattere e vengono messi in relazione con la personalità di suo marito, una personalità ammaliante che mira a controllarla fingendo un falso liberalismo nei suoi confronti.
Ma sempre di più emerge la scorza dura di Mrs Fleming che si mostra a tratti indifferente alla vita e molto infelice.
Mi avvicino a questo romanzo piena di aspettative ma allo stesso tempo molto intimorita perché amando profondamente l'autrice con la sua famosa saga 'i Cazalet' temevo che avvicinandomi a un'altra opera potesse in qualche modo deludermi.
Dietro questo apparente velo di frivolezza e felicità si nascono sentimenti ambivalenti e falsi, mogli che odiano profondamente i mariti, che mostrano però come trofei durante le feste sfavillanti, madri gelose delle figlie che sviliscono di fronte ai personaggi più illustri della società altolocata; tutto insomma è una grande pantomima, una volta giunti sul grande palcoscenico sfavillante l'unica cosa che resta da fare ai nostri personaggi è :recitare.
But here she creates a male character who is so unlikable that her normal sure touch seems to fail her and he seems little more than a caricature of an arrogant, domineering and malevolent man.
It could be that Howard wasn’t yet experienced enough herself – this is an early novel – to create more credible male characters, as she so brilliantly does in the Cazalet Chronicles for example.
Nevertheless I did enjoy the book on the whole, and Antonia herself is a memorable and convincing portrait of a woman trapped in her time and place.
