https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19647.Tristessa
She is the object of his love for a time: there's a year-long break in the middle, where it seems the events of "Dharma Bums" could've happened - and Jack makes a mistake of not declaring his feelings of love to her (view spoiler)[which I feel is part of her decline in the later book (hide spoiler)], but since we're looking from Jack's POV, we can't tell exactly what she thought ot it.Jack tells his story in a rambling way, mixing in elements of memories of his past life, his beliefs influenced by Buddhism, much angsting which was part of his depressions.
Kerouac’s extolling of virtually everything as wonderful, including he and his friends’ appalling lack of responsibility, struck me as gleefully Whitmanesque in On the Road and thus I was able to enjoy it, but here, I don’t much see the charms of Tristessa or her self-destructive coterie, nor would any sober person.
Η Τριστέσσα είναι μία μελαγχολική νουβέλα, γραμμένη από τον Τζακ Κέρουακ, τον εκπρόσωπο της γενιάς των Μπητ.
Καταφέρνει να πλάσει όμορφες εικόνες μέσα στην ασχήμια των πιο βρομερών δρόμων του Μέξικο Σίτι, μπερδεύοντας βιωματικά γεγονότα με τη μυθοπλασία.Σαν ένας εκπρόσωπος του περιθωρίου, όπως ο Μπουκόφσκι και παλιότερα ο Μπωτλαίρ, καταφέρνει να αποτυπώσει ζωντανά τα συναισθήματα των λούμπεν στοιχείων του Μέξικο, μίας πόλης που αργοπεθαίνει κάτω από τον ίσκιο του Αμερικανικού ονείρου.
Κλείνοντας, καθώς διάβαζα τη νουβέλα, μου ερχόταν συνεχώς αυτό το τραγούδι του Dylan, που λειτουργεί και ως φόρος τιμής στον Κέρουακ - στο τέλος μίας εποχής.
motiv zaljubljenosti u kurvu zavisnu od morfijuma mi je bio obećavajući, ali dosta tanko je ovo.
What to say about Tristessa? Its a beautiful book but definately not for everyone. If you are ok with drugs, prostitution and despair this is a book for you. Needlessly to say I am.
What to say about Tristessa? It´s a beautiful book but definately not for everyone. If you are ok with drugs, prostitution and despair this is a book for you. Needlessly to say I am.
In my most recent reading, I got more from the story itself."Tristessa" consists of two short parts, each of which tells the story of the first-person narrator, Jack, as he makes two visits to Mexico City separated by about a year.
Tristessa appears to be in love with Jack.In the year that intervenes between the two parts of the novel, Jack works in a fire tower in the Northwest -- this story is told in Kerouac's "Desolation Angels" When he returns to Mexico City as narrated in part 2 of the book, Tristessa's life has deteriorated as she has become more hopelessly addicted.
I would actually rate this book a -1. Hated it. Read to page 20 TWICE (it's a 97 page book) and couldn't understand anything that was going on. Something about roosters. Call me crazy, but I require books with punctuation.
It is at turns nihilistic (soul eats soul in the general emptiness) and hyper-aware (Not one of the vast accumulations of conceptions from beginningless time, through the present and into the never ending future, not one of them is graspable) and humble (trying to remember my place and position in eternity) and beautiful (bodies in beds and the beatable surge when you go into your beloved deep and the whole world goes with you).As a text it is interesting for the sympathetic (yet ultimately tragic) portrayal of the title character, whom the narrator steadfastly resists the urge to take to bed throughout the course of the narrative—a more urgent need to transcend previous instances concupiscence is at times cited though there is no sustained discussion of this.
Tristessa is 96 pages of Jack Duluoz (Kerouac) mooning over a broken-down morphine junkie/whore who couldn't give a sh*t less about him.
And the book doesn't so much end as simply stop---JK intimates that Duluoz finally gets a clue and decides to head home, abandoning Tristessa to her fate.
(In the several JK biographies I've read, it was reported that Kerouac hated the word and never used it himself.)I suppose I can give old Jack points for rendering a vivid picture of the environment in which Tristessa and company live.
It would be like describing the meal of hungry man when what is really at stake is the unbelievable hunger.I have to confess that where Jack Kerouac is concerned I'm somewhat narrow-minded.
In the former there is irony - in Tristessa there is just sadness.Jack Kerouac, mate.
You made up your own words and you broke yourself to pieces in the process.As I read Tristessa I just wanted to sneak in and take Jack out of that mad Mexico drug madness freakdom and take him to a park and see the sky and feel breath and open up to the true unchaotic wonder.
A escrita subversiva de Kerouac prende-me profundamente.
Este é um daqueles livros que nos engana, por variados motivos.
Apesar da sua finura e de aparentar ser um livro sem grande conteúdo (a escrita subversiva engana-nos neste sentido) é um livro denso e cheio de entrelinhas.
Kerouac escreve ao ritmo do tempo, do álcool, das drogas e da tesão e, por isso, é sempre tudo tão rápido, tão efusivo, tão fragmentário - afinal não é a vida assim mesmo?Uma bela introdução a um dos grandes da Beat Generation que me fez ficar a ansiar por mais.
I myself can barely tolerate the writing of Kerouac. Too many run on sentences and drug addled thought processes. It's not that I absolutely hate it, but I think much of his popularity is based on name only without any regard to the finer details of his chaotic and exhausting prose. I feel as if I'm giving this a generous rating, based solely on the rare parts I actually happened to enjoy, while much of it was wasted effort to me. It was, and is, mainly an exercise of patience.
i never want to take morphine ever
This is maybe a little more rambling/unstructured than usual for Kerouac (!), but overall, it's quintessential kerouacian stream-of-consciousness prose that's worth a read for when he finally hits his stride mid-book."since beginningless time and into the never-ending future, men have loved women without telling them, and the Lord has loved them without telling, and the void is not the void because there's nothing to be empty of."
Tristessa was breath-takingly gorgeous! I realised half way through he'd just been sitting in a junkie's room in Mexico City (with Burroughs) and it had been fascinating! It was so beautifully written, and touching and sad and everything that I love best about Kerouac.
"não devias ter feito o que fizeste, Senhor, que nos despertas do sono, não devias ter jogado o jogo do sofrimento-e-morte com os filhos que povoam o teu espírito, não devias ter dormido, devias ter assobiado a pedir música e dançado sozinho sobre uma nuvem, a berrar às estrelas que criaste, oh Deus, nem nunca devias ter congeminado e dado os últimos retoques com todo o esmero nos teus filhos, nós, pequenos sofredores delicados e amalucados - Pobre Bull, chora desalmadamente - parece uma criança, quando está a ressacar, e eu choro também, e Tristessa nem sequer deixa que as lágrimas lhe aflorem aos olhos..." Tristessa passa-se na Cidade do México e, parecendo ser um excerto recortado de um outro trabalho maior, aquele a que Kerouac chamou a Lenda de Duluoz, à semelhança da restante obra, conta a história da relação que estabeleceu com uma bela mexicana toxicodependente.
Tristessa is one such work, set during two of Kerouac's frequent visits to Mexico City, and is centered around the love he had for a Mexican junkie who goes by that name in this novella.
Though feeling like it lacks the purpose that fueled On the Road and the Dharma Bums, Tristessa is, upon further reading, composed of the similar Kerouacian ingredients that make those two stories unique - adventure, Dharma-Bum-Buddhism and Kerouacs irreplaceable voice.
All in all, however, Tristessa is an essential read for any Kerouac fans and readers who can't get enough of Mexico.
My ratings for several books are based on how I felt about them when I read them. Several books that I loved/"really liked" I don't feel similarly about any longer, to put as simply and as fairly as possible. Kerouac is probably a perfect example of this. I loved reading about the melancholy psychological and geographical wanderings of Mr. Kerouac and his friends when I was 15 years old. It spoke to me in that way that people will describe books like  On The Road  and Catcher in the Rye as speak
Several books that I loved/"really liked" I don't feel similarly about any longer, to put as simply and as fairly as possible.
I loved reading about the melancholy psychological and geographical wanderings of Mr. Kerouac and his friends when I was 15 years old.
I can still remember how pleasurable and edifying it was to read these books but I remember it with varying levels of self-embarassment and hesitate to leap straight into that lukewarm pool of sentimentality concerning these books and the cluttered feelings and memories they invoke.
And I hesitate, and continue...
Tristessa - the way it rolls down your tongue like a hiss, escaping like a slow death, is reminiscent of Kerouac's muse from Mexico.
A long-time junky, dead eyes, dead love, dancing her way to ruins, untouchable.One takes from this book the difficult but obvious truth, lessons greater than unrequited love.
A good entry to Kerouac's works, if one may ask.
In this book, Kerouac writes an ode to lost things, in the process of losing one.
While it was morphine-addled and convoluted, all of it was breathtakingly beautiful.
The way Tristessa loves everything, cares about nothing, wants so badly to understand but at the same time is addicted to not knowing.
The way Jack worships her, her name becomes a deity, Tristessa.
He loved her, but in the age-old "could never be with her" way.
It was heartbreaking, a reflection of the impermanence of living/loving, the inevitability of loss, but also the effortless beauty of the "live fast, die young" lifestyle.
I would recommend, especially if you're a fan of Kerouac's prose because it reads like poetry, like a faded film strip, flawed and gorgeous.
The story has a power that just carries the reader along. I felt almost like the invisible companion of Kerouac shadowing him through the wet saturday night streets of Mexico city and into the lives of Tristessa and her companions. There are quite a few parts that I can't make any head or heel of but they for once - and it surprises me - they don't matter; they don't dampen anything that is beautiful about the stream of consciousness I was riding on.
I realised I really don't like the stream of consciousness writing style after reading this. And Jack's (the name of both the protagonist and the author) drug-induced thoughts are incoherent and sometimes intelligible, that I don't even know what's going on half the time.
Just 96 pages. 96 pages usually just takes me an hour and a half to read, but this one took me days. This book was making my head spin. I need books with punctuation! Maybe Kerouac's head was spinning too (from all that morphine?) when he wrote this book.
The first book I ever read of Kerouac's - I had no idea who he was at the time - and the first paragraph of this little book had such a profound impact on me, it changed the way I looked at writing immediately, and forever.
The ending is like a crescendo of rhyme and fast spitted words, and then it just ends.
With no period.
I could almost hear the music of it, like a jazz piano that tinkles along until it hits this brief, final note.
I am beginning to find his character immature though, but I still enjoy the dare I say self indulgent way he constructs his prose.
And at times he gets detail in such a vivid way that is sudden and catches me off guard at times.
Probably the first time I have ever read any book in one sitting. Second time through this one and it was even better than the first. Kerouac's prose is at his absolute peak here, my god. 100% perfect.
For 96 pages Kerouac rambles on in stream of consciousness mode, talking about hanging around with drug dealers and his friend, Old Bull Gaines (who is based on Bill Garver, not William S.
Burroughs, as Kerouac makes clear), a sixty-year-old junky.I read this book quickly, as there is really nothing of a plot.
I feel that fresh rush of words and my own writer instincts start laughing at me again.This time Tristessa, one of the road novels (this one is more of a novelette) he wrote before he got famous.
While the rest of the sixties hippie world looked down our collective noses at drinkers, those two ignored us, found art the drunk's way, followed Jack's boozy path.)This one is Jack's Journey To The End of Night, his The Lower Depths.He's in love (in a literary fashion) with Tristessa, Old Bull's connection and a morphine junkie on her way out.
A few weeks ago, I read On the Road by Kerouac.
After reading an interview with him (published in the Paris Review), I discovered that On the Road was heavily edited.
Kerouac disliked the editing (although I enjoyed the book and thought editor Malcolm Cowley did a good job), and after On the Road's publication, Kerouac told publishers he did not want any editing (other than correcting factual errors).
Probably many readers back then would have found the whole premise of the book offensive (writer falls in love with drug-addicted Mexican prostitute).
Avendo già letto e apprezzato "Sulla Strada", ero preparata alla scrittura particolare e - diciamolo - a volte estenuante di Kerouac, fatta di totale anarchia di pause, periodi lunghissimi, una tecnica che ti mette una certa fretta e urgenza e che proprio per questo rende benissimo lo spirito del libro.
Mi è piaciuto per questo, anche se più volte mi sono ritrovata a pensare "Ma questo Jack Kerouac ha mai respirato profondamente, una volta nella vita?".
La prima metà del libro la definirei "delirante", la seconda (e già andiamo meglio) "avvilente".
Si parla della sua scrittura.
