https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196842.The_Best_of_Everything
You start reading this book and you think: oh, how great it must’ve been to live in the 50s in New York.
It should also be mentioned that it is shockingly (given it was published in 1958) sexually explicit.As it is, I think it is best described as a sociological document of those times.
If all the supporting plotlines were cut out and we were only left with a maybe 200 page long Caroline story, the book would of course lose as a sociological document but would gain so much literarily.
Occasionally, one of the girls goes out with someone who likes her back (albeit temporarily) and then they have such sparkling conversations as, "Oh, I love you!""I love you too!""I love you so much!""I love you so much too!"It was scintillating.And despite going into this knowing that a pop novel of the late '50s might in some ways be offensive to contemporary sensibilities, this book was really beyond the pale.
I was feeling disappointed that it didn't seem to be racist as well, but then late in the book Caroline wonders if, when she goes to a famous actor's hotel room, the door will be answered by a "sinister Oriental houseboy," and she also can't remember whether she took her dirty clothes down to the "Chinaman" who runs the laundry.
In the preface to the new edition of this 1958 bestseller, author Rona Jaffe tells us that The Best of Everything is now "a sociological document," and it is certainly that: a pre-feminist era look at career girls (typists, editors, and actresses) in New York.
I found myself fascinated by just how much -- and how little -- has changed for women as they search for "success" (friendship, work, love, marriage) in the city.
You can tell that Jaffe loves her characters and thinks of them as friends she once knew; while she toys with stereotypes (sometimes, unfortunately, in that after-school special/cautionary tale way), she usually rises above them.
Some women never get married at all and have successful careers!
I am also annoyed I did not read this book when I lived in NY.
I woke up early on a sunday (around 6am) and finished it.
I don't want to give anything away, but the reviews in the beginning of the book were hysterical: glowing from NY papers, but a paper in Cleveland said it was recommended reading for any girl thinking of moving to NY...
I can't believe I'd never heard of this book.
I heard about it from Jane magazine's list of 100 greatest books.
Of course, after several years of being too vapid for even me to read, the magazine improved...
If  Valley of the Dolls  (1966) is the glamorous and excessive cousin of  Peyton Place  (1956), The Best of Everything is the Seconal-sedated twin of Valley of the Dolls. The Jekyll of the Hyde. Booze is flowing, but in a sophisticated Mad Men fashion. In case your blind date is a twat, just order loads of drinks in succession.Chick lit is still a problematic genre for me, but instead of having another  Bridget Jones's Diary  (2001) experience, The Best of Everything was pretty entertaining. I l
It's the time period and everything that comes with it, like the experiences of working women in a world of men, that instantly makes the story more interesting and the plight of the characters more engaging.
It's like Jaffe was trying to stick something scandalous in there to hammer her point home, but it destroys all credibility and ends up in the daytime soap territory.Jaffe was clearly trying to concoct a moral tale about the dangers of a big city, but I'm not surprised that many girls were instead inspired to move there.
As a woman in publishing in New York City, I got a weird thrill out of reading this novel about the lives of three women in publishing in New York City...circa 1955. This book is a time-capsule - a look at professional women in a very different time, when the assumed goal of every young woman's life was marriage. The writing is also fascinating as a relic of an earlier era, but even by contemporary standards it's incredibly, compulsively readable. I loved it, but I'm not proud of myself for loving it.
But I like Rona Jaffe, so I thought I'd give it a try.
The story is of a group of young women who come to New York because they want exciting lives.
Reading this book will make you want to hug any woman over 60 who paved the way for better working conditions for the rest of us.
What I found tedious about the book was how important men were in the lives of these woman.
I cared enough about the characters Jaffe created to be interested up to the end, but I found the book's conclusion unsatisfying.
There are lines in this book that I read over and over again because they resonated so strongly with emotions that I've felt in the past or I'm currently feeling.
Filled with laugh out loud moments, shocking moments, moments that make you hate these girls (because they make the same mistakes you do), and oh so many moments that bring up bittersweet memories of past loves, there are very few books that can invoke such a strong emotional reaction like this one.
However, of the four main female characters, it really is Caroline who gets the most ‘screen time’.
By the time I was halfway through this novel, however, the endless musings on marriage began to really grate on me, and so did the fact that our heroines kept making the same mistakes over and over again (surely even in the 50s women could tell a ‘good’ man from a ‘player’?).
It’s historical chick lit of the very best kind, mid-20th century Jane Austen; it tells us what life was like for those women living those lives, the choices they had, right from the horse’s mouth (Rona Jaffe was herself one of the women she describes, in her mid twenties and working as assistant-editor for a New York publishing company when this book was written).
I enjoyed this book, which toes the line between worthwhile and trashy as it follows the lives of four young women who meet while working at a New York publishing house in 1952.
It is soapy at times, and some readers will enjoy it on that level, following the romantic misadventures of young women desperate to marry.
Except in the case of one dully conventional character, the more the young women here make their lives revolve around men, the harder they fall.There is some variation in quality among the storylines.
Try to resist a book that opens with a breathy evocation of Monday morning, 9 o'clock, when thousands of girls emerge from Grand Central Station and subway exits, some in kidskin gloves and pomaded locks, some in torn dirty white gloves and a kerchief hiding their pincurls, all walking towards the skyscrapers where they fill steno pools.The tension in this scene, ostensibly, lies between professional ambition and marital aspiration: "The Best of Everything" was published in 1958, and Jaffe's unmarried college-grad girls feel haunted by failing to marry their college sweethearts.
THE BEST OF EVERYTHINGBy Rona JaffeThis is most definitely one of the golden oldies!!! Written in 1958 it was part of the vanguard that changed contemporary fiction. So many young women saw themselves reflected in the novel. The story of five young girls trying to make their careers in a large New York firm rang true to so many of the lives of women in the 50's. It is a brilliant depiction of the personal and professional struggles that women found in the city and corporate world.
This felt like such a classic chick lit!
I enjoyed every moment of it and at times found it hard to let it out of hand.
At times it felt a bit like Sex and the City, only that they drink and smoke waaaaay more.What surprised me the most was how misogynistic the society was at the time: the most important thing for a woman was to find a good husband.
she was expected to quit and cater for the "man of her dreams".
I was kind of expecting it, but it felt so strange actually reading about it.
None of them has enough money."-- The Best of Everything, by Rona JaffeThis was another one of those mid-century career novels I read on my Alaska cruise.
Even more so than the "Gray Flannel Suit", I felt like "The Best of Everything" was speaking directly to me, even if it was written for the young career women of the 1950s.
The women in "The Best of Everything" are career girls for sure, but with their minds on love as well as work.
So while guilty of several cliches itself, "The Best of Everything" is well worth a read, both for its portrayal of its times, and for what it has to teach us about our own.
(Yeah, I love Mad Men.) I would have given the book five stars, but sadly, while the book started out well, I was really disappointed by the ending.
Clearly I'm living all wrong and would be a terrible 20-something in 1954.One passage I particularly loved when when one character (I won't give specifics, to protect against spoilers) is reflecting on a failed quasi-relationship with someone who has now become a good friend..."[She] looked at him affectionately.
He was her friend, he was funny, he was wise, he was sad, and he loved her as much as she loved him.
This book is filled with laugh out loud moments, shocking moments, moments that made me hate these girls (because they seem make the silliest mistakes that I may or may not admit to having done myself), and several moments that bring up those bittersweet memories of past loves.
I would recommend this to anyone who has felt like they have made a mistakes in the past that can never be fixed, anyone living in (or has ever lived in) New York City, anyone with ambition, and all the single girls kicking arse and trying to make it on their own.
Why has this not been on reading list from writers since the 50's?
It's subversive yet a little soapy, which is why I know it's been relegated to toe the line between the dark corners of literary fiction and the pulpy titles the girls help publish in the novel.There is more owed to this book and what it foretold about women and feminism without being preachy about it.
The overall tone of the book is timeless and was very modern for the time; and at the same time it's shocking if not sad or downright depressing that so many aspects of what these characters go through aren't relics of a bygone era.
Published in 1958, this novel about five women working at a publishing firm in the early part of the decade has a certain fascination as a vivid time capsule. But did people really drink as much as all that in those days? I felt hungover if I read too much at once. The book was engrossing enough, but most of all it had me feeling grateful that I was not a young working woman in the 1950s (#metoo).
Abandoned just past the half-way mark.
I thought this book would be a fun, campy 1950s version of The Valley of the Dolls.
The pace is pretty slow, and the book could've been 100 pages shorter.
The characters weren't that interesting.
Throughout the book, they all seemed to be saying the same thing: "Oh, when will I be married?" I thought the story would show at least some of the characters interested in pursuing careers, but that was really secondary to them pursuing marriage.
In the hands of a better writer, this could've been an interesting story.
Mentioned in this fun NY Times piece about romances, along with Georgette Heyer.
50s New York...Mad Men in a book.
Wednesday 2nd January 1952; 8.45am; New York City:“You see them every morning at a quarter to nine, rushing out of the maw of the subway tunnel, filing out of Grand Central Station, crossing Lexington and Park and Madison and Fifth avenues, the hundreds and hundreds of girls.
The Best of Everything is her story, and the story of four other women she meets at work.Mary Agnes is the woman who knows just what is going on at Fabians, though she doesn’t expect to be there for long.
April came to the city from a small town with dreams of becoming an actress, but she struggled and so she took a job in the typing pool and dreamed of love and marriage instead.
I was rather disappointed that, for a novel largely set in the world of publishing, there is almost no talk or behind-the-scenes information about the production of books or magazines.
Jaffe has a general habit of writing too much – extending scenes to the point where the drama is drained out and boredom sets in.
I was mainly bothered by this in scenes of emotional drama where a character’s happiness, misery, or denial is extended for page after page beyond the point of effectiveness.
It's always a world where people are known by their last name and hometown (oh yes, the Cleveland Smiths) and everyone seems to have gone to the same dozen colleges.
This book follows a group of twenty-something "career girls" through the filth, glamour, and romance of the publishing industry in the City.
Although most of the girls, with the exception of the exceptionally clear-eyed Caroline, are a bit more naive and marriage-driven than women today, there are still enough bad decisions, problems with being a woman in the workplace, and general heartache to be familar.Like Mary McCarthy's The Group and Herman Wouk's Marjorie Morningstar, this reads like historical fiction written by a contemporary author rather than like a book that nearly pre-dates my parents.
I can't believe this was published in the 1950s, it feels like a very risque book for that period.
Yes some aspects of the books have changed, but it's still relevant in todays culture.
Gregg {Bunny Boiler} features momentarily in the book at times, but it's a storyline that will leave many readers frustrated, with plenty of eye rolling.
There are traits in the girls, that you can see similarities in your friends or even yourself, and that I think is what readers will identify with the book.
I believe this is Jaffe's very first novel and, to my mind, also the best.
No, but character-driven, engrossing, emotionally involving and very, very juicy.
Quite dated (takes place in the early 50's) but still a steamy and believably accurate account of what transpired for women venturing out on their own at the time...
the brilliant, driven, heartbroken college grad; the sweet hayseed who loses her innocence; the "bad girl" who pursues an acting career only to lose everything over a cruel mentor; a single mom who exudes quiet strength & dignity and an absolutely provincial chick from the Bronx who smugly pursues her housewife destiny and is none the worse for it.
An ultra-enjoyable read with memorable, fully fleshed-out characters.


At the start I loved this book about a group of young women working in publishing in the 1950s.
Jaffe's style is deliciously readable - she is a writer I used to enjoy years ago and was glad to rediscover.
However, I got bored with this novel at times as there is so much about the heroines' love lives, which are all rather similar, as they pine after men who don't really love them - and there isn't enough about their working lives for my taste.
I know a film was made of this and I'd be interested to see it.
