https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/657466.The_Rider
Because this book has already been five-star reviewed to death (and rightly so), here's one of my favorite passages, transcribed."In interviews with riders that I've read and in conversations that I've had with them, the same thing always comes up: the best part was the suffering.
Ooh, rain, soak me, make me wet!' How can that be: suffering is suffering, isn't it?
He arrived at 11.30 at night, with a ninety-minute lead on the only other two riders who finished the race.
That is Nature's payback to riders for the homage they pay her by suffering.
'Good for you.' Instead of expressing their gratitude for the rain by getting wet, people walk around with umbrellas.
Having struggled out a great big review of this light little novella (150 pages odd) on my blog, which already felt like I was leaving things out and holding things back, I'm not really sure how to say anything concise about it here.So I'm going to put it in quick, simple points.- The Rider is a short novel giving a long monologue of an amateur cyclist competing in a race in the south of France in 1977 (the book was written the following year), essentially a fictionalised account of the author's own experiences- the novel is a sports novel about this particular race, and the thought processes of the participants- at the same time, the narrator's mind wanders, as he explains the nature of road racing and his own nature - this involves many anecdotes from his own life and from cycling history.
In time he became a contender in many of the shorter day-races in northern Europe.It succeeds on so many levels: the rider's accomplishment, the true descriptions of racing, historical depth (many seamlessly-woven accounts of great moments in cycling), as a kind of autobiography, and most of all as a long translation of the racer's mind.
Krabbé wins the writing.*WHY I READ THIS BOOK: During this year's Tour de France, I got inspired to read some books on the subject, and found this one at the Seattle Public Library.
Noted as one of many entries into the mental journal of Tim Krabbé, the author’s namesake and amateur cyclist.The force driving Krabbé is implicit - it is winning, chest thumping, good rider triumphs bad rider, affirmation for a late-starter, culmination of life’s pursuits condensed into a singular moment of conquering “the sweetest, toughest race of the season”.
Dumped.In professional road racing, as Krabbé tells in his ruminations, there are heroes and heroics.
Where The Rider stack-ranks among other amateur road-racing books is irrelevant, I feel, not unlike Krabbé’s stature among his counterparts.
The Rider is a miniature epic, one of the best books I read last year - and definitely the best book I've ever read about the experience of cycling a really long way.
The narrator, a laconic fellow called Tim Krabbé, takes you on a 137-kilometre cycle race in 132 pages of taut, ironic prose.
This makes The Rider an almost perfect real-time evocation of the long-distance cycling experience – especially if you read the whole thing in one sitting.
As Krabbé has it: “Road-racing is all about generating pain.” All life is suffering?
James's choice for book club this month, and I was a little dubious going in. Given how much cycling we watch on TV during the year, did I really want to spend precious reading time on it too? Particularly with the enormous pile of books on my to read list at the moment. So it was a pleasant surprise to find that I really enjoyed it, a fictional account of a climbers race with Tim Krabbe as a contender. Zipped through the 150 pages to reach the exciting finish line in time to discuss on Wednesday!
Amazing, mundane and heartbreaking all at the same time...I loved it.Anyone who's never raced a bike would be mystified as to the appeal of this book. Anyone who has will completely identify with Krabbé's stream of consciousness heading toward delirium writing style.Sit on Krabbé's shoulder as he pedals through the 137km of the 1977 Tour de Mont Aigoual. You're going to love it.
A slender volume with two additional factors in its favor: (1) Krabbe is no dummy - he's a professional writer (both journalist and novelist) who is also an elite/champion chess player (so it's no surprise he "talks a good game"); and (2) Krabbe is hysterically self-deprecating, and his anecdotes about the evolution of his sporting career (or in other words, growing up) sprinkle the book with humor, color, and joy.Frankly, I don't know how much this would appeal to a non-rider - someone who never raced or doesn't have significant time in the saddle (not just hours or days, but the thousands of miles and climbs and group rides that bind together the kind of folks who feel comfortable at high speeds in a pace line or echelon, opening doors to the pain cave, and reminding us that professional cyclists aren't ...

Whoa! Jeg tror dette må bli biosirkelboka mi.Til tross for... at den er tidsbegrenset, crossoversk, litterær og sansynligvis vil få meg disket.
Tim Krabbé turns a 137 kilometer cycling race in the South of France into a veritable odyssey.
However, I think these references are an integral part of what Krabbé tries to do with the story.
Firstly, the story continually shifts between moving forward in time (the proceedings of the race) and moving backward in time (going deeper into the rider’s past sporting experiences, but also going into the history of cycling).
cycling and narcissism.james told me that this book would tell me more about racing.
fair enough.
i did learn a bit about the techniques and some of the history, anecdotal as it was.
more though, this book reminded me why i dislike organized and competitive sports: the people who enjoy them are self-centered, probably mean, and almost certainly not people with whom i'd enjoy spending time:“Road racing imitates life, the way it would be without the corruptive influence of civilization.
When you see an enemy lying on the ground, what’s your first reaction?
In road racing, you kick him to death.”at least it's decently written.
From now on I'll be watching the Tour and other road races through very different eyes. In fact, before this I never bothered. A wonderful little book I read in one sitting. My, what goes on in those riders' heads!And I thought that coming first was the only thing that matters! No wonder he writes about chess too. Absolutely fascinating.Thanks Tony.
Delightful and fun read. Insightful and relatable, I felt like I was pedaling with Tim the entire time. The book was captivating and unrelenting, drawing me all the way to the finish.
That made the story a bit hard for me to follow until the next segment where he let the reader know how far along the course he had progressed.While the story was enjoyable, the narration was even better as Mark Meadows read the translated text (the book was originally published in Dutch, Krabbe’s native language) in an easy to understand manner.
Overall, this is a book recommended for cyclists and hard-core fans as they will best understand the nuances of the sport.
It is still an enjoyable story for people who have an interest even if they don’t follow the sport closely.
Much like Murakami's What I Talk About When I Talk About Running it's that rare beast, a book about sports written by someone who can actually write about something beyond split times and results, but where Murakami uses it as an excuse to write a memoir, Krabbé mostly sticks to that one race in 1977, kilometre by kilometre, with all the thoughts it brings along with it.
He and his fellow cyclists - competitors but also colleagues, because nobody can run a race on their own - battle against each other and their own limits...
De vele kilometers, de oude zware fietsen, de wollen truitjes, reserveband rond hun romp,...Als men de renners nu vergelijkt met de renners een aantal generaties geleden dan weet je wie de echte helden zijn!"De renner" is een boek dat zich afspeelt op zesentwintig juni 1977.
Het begint allemaal bij de meet daar waar drieënvijftig renners starten aan een loodzware koers van 137 kilometer met vier cols.
Hij vertelt hoe hij zich voelt, wat hij deed en dacht.Tim Krabbé is een renner van de jaren zeventig en startte na zijn wielrennercarriere als schrijver.
Het is voor sportfanaten die alle details willen kennen en met koers bezig zijn.
Bisiklet yarısının içindeki acıyı, hırsı, endişeyi, rekabeti, dostluğu bisikletçi jargonuyla sürükleyici bir metinle anlatıyor. Yazilmasi üzerinden kırk yıl geçmesine rağmen her zaman okunacak bir kitap. Sadece yarışçılar için değil izleyicilerin de okuması gereken en bir başucu kitabı.
Great. If you love cycling. Which I do. So it’s great.
one of my favorite books (a short story really) on cycling. the translation leaves it sounding endearingly kooky, but still authentic. does the best job of capturing the experience of road riding and racing of anything i have ever read. recommended reading for anyone who has ever hopped on a bike.
5 stars if you've raced a bike on the roads. 2 or 3 otherwise so I'll round to 4. Definitely a different sort of book and captures the beauty-in-pain of bike racing better than anything else I've read.
The author discusses the competition, the cooperation, the pain, the strategy and the mental head games of cycling.
Krabbe leads the reader up hills, through towns, over dale, under the weather and directly into the mind of the cyclist.
Thought no longer comes naturally when exhaustion and pain set in.
Then there are those souls who cycle as a career, the cyclists, the racers, the riders.
Though, while riding with this book in mind, I did wonder if the exhaustion I felt on a given climb or the freshness of the breeze had any relation to the anguish and solace described by Krabbe.
Het boek is een autobiografie, waarin Tim Krabbé vertelt hoe hij als wielrenner deelnam aan de Ronde van Mont Aigoual.
Krabbé verkent nog even enkele kilometers van het parcours, samen met Kléber, zijn trainingsmaatje voordat ze gaan starten.
Wanneer de klim naar de Causse Méjean begint, breekt Krabbé samen met nog wat wielrenners los van het peloton en begint de kopgroep van zeven renners, die al eerder is losgebroken van het peloton, in te halen.
Krabbé rijdt na de afdaling verder in een groep die verder bestaat uit Kléber, Lebusque, Reilhan, Barthelemy en Teissonnière.
Uiteindelijk wordt Krabbé tweede en wint Reilhan de ronde van Mont Aigoual.Persoonlijk vind ik het een mooi boek omdat de personages goed waren omschreven.
Every time before I step out on my bike to ride against the wind on the roads close to my home in Amsterdam, I feel a tension through my whole body.
I felt the same tension every time I picked this book and rode a little further along with Krabbé.
`Suffering you need; literature is balooney.` But then while on my bike I remembered him saying "it's weird that you already know it but your body doesn't." "Climbing is a rhythm, a trance; you have to rock your organs' protests back to sleep" "It hurts, but it's also sort of nice" "...pain, commonly seen in my circles as a signal to stop doing something has ceased being that to me since July 20,1972"I am a little less afraid of pain now.
unpacks the psyche of an athlete precisely where he wants to be, reads as mostly stream of consciousness complete with the floating/fleeting thoughts that strike a rider from some recollection long forgotten, to exhausted delusions.
Also follows the inner workings of racer strategy where best laid plans can change in an instant on the road and what role fatigue plays in cognition.A couple of minor issues with the original translation from Dutch/French didn't detract from the story, which was one I got swept into and read in one sitting, racing the riders where the finish line and the last page were one in the same.
Tim Krabbe, Dutch championship chess player and cycling enthusiast uncloaks the mind of the race cyclist as you follow a fictional recantation of the 1977 Tour de Mont Aigoual and his prospect as a competitor.
Cycling is a strategic battle demanding and depleting both body and mind.
Will you pull a wheel-sucker into contention or settle for mutual defeat?
The strongest rider doesn't always win, but the purity of cycling isn't found in the glory of victory; it's parceled out in measures of pain, spread across kilometers of asphalt and cobbles.
To understand the beauty of cycling, you must first experience it's suffering.
A first hand account of a single amateur bike race, told in amazingly succinct and accurate detail. A highly entertaining and funny narration from the rider himself, with musings that are umistakingly relate-able to anyone who has ever pedaled a bike in a race. No matter what country (the author is Dutch, the race was in France), nor what year. The race was from 1977, but minus some slight technology differences, the nuances hold true today or back in 1904.
Toen ik Ventoux van Bert Wagendorp las moest ik weer aan dit boek denken, lang geleden als eens gelezen. Na herlezen opnieuw: geweldig boek. Prachtige inkijk in het hoofd van een wielrenner in een wedstrijd. De strijd, de pijn, de concurrentie, de vriendschap, de eenzaamheid, de heroïek het landschap, de verveling ... alles wat wielrennen zo aantrekkelijk maakt om te doen, te zien en over te lullen.
Lovingly written, but sometimes cold account of a race in late 70s, with some context about the author's journey into competitive cycling and cycling history. It made me want to get on my bike, ride everyday and maybe enter some small race somewhere. Even more impressive, though, was how well it chronicles the obsessiveness required to become really good at anything. Truly a gem of a book; I'll definitely be picking this up again and again.
No wonder this is a legendary bookI dislike racing, and this book perfectly captures most of the reasons for which I do. But it also captures struggle, which I respect, maybe even cherish. The fight between narcissism and useless courage in the Rider is beautifully savage. I loved it, even as I was hoping the protagonist would lose the race.
