https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120182.The_Black_Prince
And unhappy lovers want to tell their story.” It’s about falling in love with the emphasis on “falling.” It happens to this 58-year-old man instantaneously over dinner one night with a woman barely 20 years old; a daughter of long-time friends of his.
Moreover to help their case the unmarried person often naively assumes that all marriages are happy unless shown to be otherwise.” And “People who boast of happy marriages are, I submit, usually self-deceivers, if not actually liars…There is nothing like the bootless solitude of those who are caged together.” On art: our main character worked in a tax office but his real love was literary things – he wrote book reviews and one critically-acclaimed book.
Απεικονίζει αριστουργηματικά την απελπιστική ανθρώπινη κατάσταση σε κάθε έκφανση της, μα κυρίως εισβάλει στην ψυχή του αναγνώστη έχοντας ως δούρειο ίππο τον Μαύρο Πρίγκιπα.
Μαύρος, όπως τα σκοτεινά αβυσσαλέα ψυχικά βάθη, Πρίγκιπας, όπως το τιμητικό και θριαμβευτικό αξίωμα, όπως ένας μεγαλειώδης τίτλος τιμής και εξουσίας που καθορίζει την ολοκλήρωση μέσα απο την αισθητική την αλήθεια και τον Μαύρο έρωτα.
Ταυτίστηκα με τον Μαύρο Πρίγκιπα...όπως ταυτίζεται ο το μαρτύριο του έρωτα με το θάνατο και την λύτρωση.
Ουσιαστικά κάτι πέρα και πάνω απο την αγάπη είναι η ουσία αυτού του βιβλίου.
Here too we have a foppish, marginally asexual middle aged man who experiences a not-so-good awakening; we have a third act tragedy involving a supporting character; we have a bit character who scarcely ever appears but is mentioned frequently to give the illusion of time passing; we have philosophic departures into the nature of love; we have a queer supporting man who willingly becomes a butler-figure for sadomasochistic reasons; we have a love pentagram.Fortunately, I love all these things, and so I love Iris Murdoch.
Bradley "writes the book" from an indeterminate location in space and time, and a sequence of letters at the end call into doubt swaths of the narrative.The action starts with delay.
ΕΔΙΤ 1Ο Σύνδεσμος στην Λεσχη του Βιβλίου:http://www.λέσχη.gr/forum/showthread....Ο Μπράντλι Πίαρσον είναι ένας συνταξιούχος εφοριακός, ο οποίος ονειρεύεται να γράψει ένα δυνατό λογοτεχνικό μυθιστόρημα σχετικό με την αλήθεια.
Τι είναι τέχνη και πως πρέπει να εκφράζεται, τι είναι ο γάμος και πως μπορεί να φθείρει τους ανθρώπους μέσα από την δική του φθορά και τέλος τι σημαίνει αλήθεια και πόσο μπορεί κανείς να την αντιληφτεί… Η Μέρντοχ αφηγείται την ιστορία του Μπράντλι Πίαρσον με έναν αρκετά πρωτότυπο τρόπο (το καταλαβαίνουμε αμέσως από τον πιο ευφάνταστο πρόλογο επιμελητή!!
As are "creativity", "art", and "great", words whose definitions are thrown around so quickly that the mind can hardly fix on one before another, more "truthful" one is sailing past.
As a result, one must step back from the lenses of objectivity, and trust in the states of transience that meaning undergoes for each and every occasion.This book has an unreliable narrator.
The real chaos provoked by the clashing of abstract interpretations is even more pronounced here, in a book wholly consumed with the idea of "art".
I read this years ago and thought it was hilarious, especially when the old prissy geezer was taking the young lovely student he was hopelessly in lurve with to the Opera and was so excited and overwhelmed by the whole inebriating ineffable scrotum-bedevilling lurve thing that he vomited all over the row in front.
It's funny and exhausting and you often need a chart.
But one Iris Murdoch novel is a must.So it should be this one.
once again iris murdoch makes my head explode.
each time i think i'm in the wrong place when i start: everything seems so conventional and normal, even boring: so british, and calling, and tea cups and all, and then, oh then, it just sort of explodes into sparks of clarity dancing around sordidness combined with philosophy -- its meditations primarily on art, and love.
with this, and the unicorn, murdoch has taught me much about suffering, and madness.
At the same time I saw her too in every way as I had seen her before.
But my experience with this book and what that means to my future engagement with Murdoch's novels is a bit like my experience with swimming laps in the local pool without a loftier purpose: neither is worth the effort.I love swimming.
But I have to make time, get ready, get to the pool, put in the effort to swim those laps, stress out my lungs, feel the ache in my muscles the next day, and work on staying motivated despite my enjoyment.
If Match Game is the literary equivalent of a fun Terry Pratchett novel and triathlon training is the equivalent of Ulysses, I'll always avoid the middle ground that The Black Prince fills.
As usual, I just can't remember a thing that happened, at least to the extent of assigning it to this rather than some other Iris Murdoch novel. Probably an insane billionaire has a scheme to destroy the world and 007 needs to infiltrate his shadowy organisation, having sex with several hot women en route and finally defusing the atomic weapon when there are only seconds left on the clock.Wait. That was the other series, wasn't it? In that case, pretty much the same, but take out the atomic weapon and the billionaire and add some Wittgenstein.
I both, like and dislike the main character, Bradley, and overall, all characters in this book.
And, also, I wonder, do I picture characters in books like young ones, because I am young now and will that change when I am old..?Okay, back to the book itself.
I most definitely will re-read this book!
But, once again, I so must read this book again, I sense that I will appreciate it much more.
I would recommend you to read it's description, and hopefully you will find the story interesting, and again hopefully you give it a try.
i loved this the same way i love every iris murdoch book.
and it doesn't surprise me that this is probably her most famous book-- it's long and complex and full of great characters and all perfectly set out and cut like a diamond and overflowing with wonderful sentences and thoughts about art and life and love and all the rest.
it's a book about people and the way they interact.
it's the moment that stands out by being different.))but still, i'd rather read anything by iris murdoch than pretty much anything by anyone else.
The novel is a comic form.
Language is a comic form, and makes jokes in its sleep.
"A arte não é confortável nem falsificável. A arte conta a única verdade que em definitivo interessa. É a luz através da qual os seres humanos podem ser corrigidos. E para além da arte, permitam que vos diga, não existe nada."— Iris Murdoch, O Príncipe Negro - Uma Celebração do Amor
Iris Murdoch is a philosopher (and a lover of Sartre, worst offender of all, if you ask me), and I generally make it a rule never to read the novels of philosophers because they know shit about character development and even less about plot.
Now, all the faux editorial prefaces and postscripts would suggest that I am supposed to hate Bradley and feel that the narrative has no centre.
I learned nothing from this book and will never read her again.
It could've done with a lot more preface/postscipts and a lot less novel.
very engaging and has the quality of making you see your life as being a little more sinister than before:The natural tendency of the human soul is towards the protection of the ego.
The burden of genuine goodness is instinctively appreciated as intolerable, and a desire for it would put out of focus the other and ordinary wishes by which one lives.
Of course very occasionally and for an instant even the worst of men may wish for goodness.
Happy is the civilization which can breed men accustomed from infancy to regard certain at least of the ego's natural activities as unthinkable.
Brilliant realisation of first person narrative, and a story within a story.
The narrator is typically grey, British, mediocre and of the pre Thatcher era, completely out of sorts with his own and everyone's feelings and emotions, sexual or otherwise.
Comparisons with the later, similarly themed The Information (writer's block and literary/sexual jealousy) are unavoidable.
Clearly Amis is a tour de force when at his best, but Murdoch's style and control is probably superior, and that's saying something for me to come to that conclusion.
Again, a joy to read ~ fantastic writing.
Whew!
I finally finished it.
I wanted to score this book higher.
It was an excellent book, but I wouldn't say I "really liked it" as the GR ratings go.
The prose was just too dense for me to really enjoy it.
The characters, however, and the story are engaging and absorbing.
At no point did I not want to finish the book.
The characters were engaging though not very likable.
Still, I am glad I read it.This is going to sound odd.
But it is a very wet and windy sort of book.
Hilarious, stylish, and profound--what more do you want out of a novel? A master class in unreliable narration.
"Almost any tale of our doings is comic. We are bottomlessly comic to each other. Even the most adored and beloved person is comic to his lover. The novel is a comic form. Language is a comic form, and makes jokes in its sleep. God, if He existed, would laugh at His creation. Yet it is also the case that life is horrible, without metaphysical sense, wrecked by chance, pain and the close prospect of death. Out of this is born irony, our dangerous and necessary tool."A Jude the Obscure for a, more, modern age….
Що б там не видалося вам із мого заплутаного відгуку, щастя є — й у цій книзі, й у житті)))***"Человеческое счастье редко ничем не омрачается, а безоблачное счастье само по себе вселяет испуг"."Когда любишь и любим, даже самые настоящие трудности – хотя порой это лишь иллюзия – кажутся пустячными и просто несуществующими"."Удивительно, в литературе так часто говорят о том, что люди влюбляются, но так редко по-настоящему описано, как это происходит.
Ведь это же поразительное явление, для многих – самое потрясающее событие в жизни, куда более потрясающее, чем все ужасы на свете, потому что влюбленность противоестественна"."Когда физическое желание и любовь неразделимы, это связывает нас со всем миром, и мы приобщаемся к чему-то новому.
In my opinion this is Murdoch’s finest novel – I read many of her novels in my 20s, but none has made me contemplate love and morality in any sort of deep level as much as this book has. I could rave on about this book for hours, but I would rather rave on about how angry the introduction by Martha C. Nussbaum made me! I cannot fathom how Nussbaum can have left out so many literary allusions made in the book.  First, while she does speak of Plato’s Phaedrus – and yes, it deserves mention – more
In particular to her poem about her desire for a particular pupil (the main character in the book briefly tutors his love) Sappho 31, a poem which is better known through Catullus’ translation in Latin (Catullus 51).
Or Bradley first falls in love with Julian while she is talking about having played Hamlet in trousers as a schoolgirl.
Nussbaum needed to discuss more fully the gender-blurring throughout the novel.
Murdoch has always had gay or bisexual characters in her novels, but this book is by far “the gayest” of them all.
But it seems Iris Murdoch's real purpose with the text is to offer the reader the disorienting experience of traveling across a highly nuanced emotional terrain with a Prufrockian narrator who is attempting to be "set the record straight", and in the process creates more questions, doubts, and uncertainty.
But the majority of the text is a journey thru a single mind that is undeniably deceiving itself at some fundamental level while loudly proclaiming that his only goal in writing this book is to reveal the truth.
Did Iris Murdoch create this irritation as another exploration of form and textual interaction?
But, I loved that each of us got something different out of the novel.
Murdoch applies this theme throughout many of her novels, this one in particular seemed to be especially full of creative references, since it revolves around a writer.I especially love that we each came to a different conclusion of the narrator.
It led to a fabulous discussion, in which we decided that at the very least, Murdoch enjoys messing with her readers emotions as well as creating a very clever and unexpected trick with Shakespeare’s Hamlet and the Greek God, Apollo (she even admitted in interviews that she got quite a kick out of this).
I highly recommend this literary masterpiece.My rating: 4.5 Stars
This book sat on my shelf for 6 months. Finally, in an attempt to clean out my house and return over-due borrowed items, I picked it up. And didn't put it down! This book covers the entire gamut of the feelings of love, from initial infatuation, the spiritual well-being of love's first throes, and the stomach-turning emotions of love's ending. All that, plus such a beautiful look at the highest purity of true ART, within writing, music, and friendship. This book is a must-read for a mature understanding of human feelings towards all of life's quirks.
The Black Prince by Iris Murdoch reads like an absurdist farce or a goofball skit – at least at first: the protagonist and narrator, Bradley Pearson, a would-be writer (three published volumes in some thirty-five years) is bombarded by social interruptions, even though he repeatedly states he has retired and wants only to leave the city to focus on creating what he believes can only be a great novel.But instead his ex-wife's down-and-out brother shows up, then he’s entangled in his friend's marriage troubles, and he bumps into the couple's daughter, who wants him to tutor her, while his ex-wife herself returns to London from the States.
Трошки пізніше з‘ясувалося, що це не абищо, а роман авторки, яка входить до переліку найвизначніших письменників Британії ХХ століття.Отже, «Чорний принц» - роман про немолодого письменника (власне, оповідається історія від його імені), який опиняється в центрі бурхливих подій (повернення в місто колишньої дружини, розлучення сестри, сімейна драма в родині друга й колеги, такий собі невдалий адюльтер з його дружиною та несподівана закоханість в другову ж ледве повнолітню доньку і т.
Більшу частину книги складають діалоги героїв, здебільшого кумедні й абсурдні (ну знаєте, як воно буває у класиків).
Таке собі, як на мене.
That said, narrator Bradley Pearson does sound rather more like a footballist or perhaps a sprinter than the usual Murdoch lead.
They are variously absurd, boorish, sordid and pathetic; where usually a Murdoch cast offers us a choice of virtues, or a pantheon of the fascinating yet flawed, this mob are all, in their various ways, terrible people.
Yes, Murdoch is much more interested in bathos than her reputation might suggest (the word "muddle" is to her work as "eldritch" is to Lovecraft's); it's a perfect sign for the way the real fails to live up to the ideal.
Murdoch's characters are often aspects of herself, and I think that includes Pearson and his friend/rival Arnold Baffin.
In it (or with it), Murdoch plunges full-scale into the realm of the Nabokovian unreliable narrator and even, I think, tips her hat directly to Lolita and Pale Fire in spots.
In this case, the Humbert-styled narrative voice and assorted other modernist tropes leave you uncertain what actually happened, another way out of the bind and sometimes a cheap one (c.f. my complaints about Amis's own "Night Train") but in this case it works.
I guess I've never read a book like this.
Middle-aged man falls in love with his best friend`s daughter.
I actually don't believe such love and I'm right.
I wish the end was better.
I really hoped that the love was real and it would stay true and last for a longer period of time.
The ending was really unexpected.
I think that's what makes this book so good - sudden, unexpected turning-points and amazing language.
I could rewrite the whole book, because it is in itself a big quote.Great book, hadn't enjoyed reading a book so much for a long time.
For books like this, it's important that the reader will sympathize, understand, or like the main character even if it's just a little.
But I could not bring myself to do any of these things.
I was already bored by the end of the first chapter but forced myself to continue since I was hoping it would redeem itself eventually.
Unfortunately, it didn't.And you know what?
I couldn't even bring myself to care.Honestly?
I thought the death was just placed there in hopes of making things interesting, in an attempt to salvage the boring book.
Iris Murdoch described her ideal reader as “someone who likes a jolly good yarn and enjoys thinking about the book as well, about the moral issues.”The Black Prince is most definitely a “jolly good yarn” - full of dramatic action and vivid characters. Murdoch adds all sorts of philosophizing about art and love in a way that didn’t overwhelm or take away from the story. It all certainly made me think. Bonus- multiple unreliable narrators - I just can’t get enough of unreliable narrators!
