https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/793474.The_Cat_Who_Talked_to_Ghosts
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts, the 10th book in the Cat Who series by Lilian Jackson Braun.
Ugh...
this was such a sad one to read.
I loved the series and read a bunch all in a row.
This was mixed in the middle of the long read, towards the early middle part of the entire series...
but poor Iris Cobb is killed.
It's not a spoiler, as it says so in the book jacket cover.
But she was my favor transplant from Down Below...
when she came up with her antique business
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts, the 10th book in the Cat Who series by Lilian Jackson Braun.
I loved the series and read a bunch all in a row.
This was mixed in the middle of the long read, towards the early middle part of the entire series...
All in all, it was a good book.
I loved the concept of ghosts.
but I will always wonder what could have been, had Iris Cobb made it a few more books!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Second Read: In Mackintosh Qwilleran is a newspaper writer for the crime column of the Moose County Something.
Then he and the police plunge into the mystery.I think the author has such a suspenseful way of writing things, because she always says thing like, "Qwilleran felt the same tingling sensation in his mustache.
Been a long time, but I'm having some fun going back and reading some of these again.
Qwill's former housekeeper, Iris Cobb, is frightened to death one evening at the Goodwinter Farm Museum, where she is the curator.
A little different than some of her other books, but it is a good read.
We learn a lot about Qwill's everyday life, but somehow, that just makes you get to know the character more and doesn't get tiring as it does in other books.
He sure eats some nice sounding food!Koko and Yum Yum were the reason I first read these books.
Polly also gets a new cat, much to the disgust of Qwill (and to me, I've never really enjoyed reading the Polly scenes)Expect a nice dollop of Pickaxe and the surrounds history, and a mystery that will keep you guessing until the end!
I'm a big fan of the Cat Who series.
This is a cosy mystery series that is among the best in this genre, even before this genre became mainstream.
Despite a slow progress in the mystery and its resolution, I just cannot put down the book for long.
Koko is a genius and Qwilleran is a great journalist - together they make an adorable pair.
The books are a great blend of the serious and the amusing.
My only problem is how Qwilleran reacts to deaths - he seems very clinical and unemotional, which prevents the reader from empathising with the other characters.
One of my favorite mysteries of all time!A well-written mystery filled with funny antics of Jim Qwilleran and his two Siamese cats, Koko and Yum Yum. A good friend of Jim’s is hearing noises and calls on Jim for help one late night.
By the time Jim arrives, she is lying dead and appears to have been scared to death.
Jim decides to move into her place and figure out what happened.
I highly recommend this mystery and the whole series, in fact.I received this book as a Christmas gift years ago.My Rating: 5 starsThis review first appeared: https://princessofthelight.wordpress....
I love the earlier Cat Who books, like this one.
But I’ve been keeping track (literally, if you check my previous reviews) and the body count just since Qwill moved to Moose County is ….
Supposedly he’s all about Polly, but he regresses to Old Lecher mode when he meets Kristi, a pretty young woman who lives down the street from the museum and raises (doomed) goats.
Originally published: 1990Body Count: 2 (view spoiler)[Iris Cobb (murder/suffocation) Brent Waffle (bludgeoned) plus more if you count the poor poisoned goats  (hide spoiler)]Preceded by: The Cat Who Went UndergroundNext Up: The Cat Who Lived High
I can imagine that she angered quite a few loyal fans with her decision.Still, I can think of few other characters whose murders Jim Qwilleran (Qwill) and his ingenious cat Koko would be more keen to solve.
Right away, the two of them, along with Yum Yum, move into the small apartment adjacent to the Goodwinter museum, where poor Mrs. Cobb's body was found, and begin their investigations.I was surprised at Ms. Braun's depiction of Qwill when he came face to face with the 2 year old, 'Baby'.
In the end, it makes sense, but it still made the novel a bit difficult to read.On the other hand, I really like how Ms. Braun built upon the Goodwinter family history as described in previous novels.
I'm re-reading the cat who series which I enjoy. I'd forgotten how obnoxious Polly Duncan is- what does Qwill see in her?!
After a series of mysterious events cause a museum owner named Iris Cobb to have a heart attack, Jim “Qwill” Qwilleran and his two Siamese cats Koko and Yum-Yum move into the office to try to solve her indirect murder.
These “Cat Who” books are considered light reading and easy on the eyes with a smooth pace.
Therefore, this paragraph isn’t really a criticism, because I enjoy a relaxing book every now and then.The mystery in this book is one that is well constructed, probably the best one I’ve read in the “Cat Who” series so far.
Jammer is wel dat weer een bekend en geleifd personage overlijdt in - dit keer al van bij het begin - verdachte omstandigheden.
De avonturen van de katten en de snor van Qwill vormen natuurlijk weer een rode draad doorheen het verhaal, net zoals de beschrijvingen van eten en drinken.
Voor wie al wat ouder wordt is het altijd leuk om te lezen over de krasse 90-plussers die blijven functioneren en niet kapot te krijgen zijn.
Wel jammer dat Qwill het normaal vind om een deel van de geschiedenis verborgen te houden en zo net zoals vandaag aan het gebeuren is, zijn eigen vorm van geschiedenis te (her)schrijven.
In this story, Qwill gets a call in the dead of night from a terrified Iris Cobb.
It's a sad point in the series as Iris Cobb was a good soul and has appeared in a couple of the books.
So, if you've been reading the series it finally answers some of the situations that have been clouded by gossip.Qwill also is having a hard time with Polly, his current lady, since she has gotten a kitten of her own.
Unfortunately, I only have a few more of her books left to enjoy for the first time (I will reread most of them again eventually!) which makes me very sad.
They are so relistic that they feel like old friends and I will miss their stories very much.If you want straight-forward mysteries without all the political and international intrigue of the spy genre that is so prevelant in bookstores in recent years, then try Lillian's quaint homespun stories where Koko and YumYum help their owner solve mysteries.
Great books for families to read and discuss together!
This is cute. The man with the sensitive mustache, the endless fortune and the two sleuthing Siamese cats is at it again. This time his former landlady calls him frightened as she hears scary noises at night. By the time he gets there she is dead on her kitchen floor. Looks like she died of fright, she did have a heart condition.But more investigation turns up some nefarious doings.The most enjoyable part of this book is Polly's new kitten, very funny.
In this book the beloved Iris Cobb dies...was she seeing ghosts or is there some other deviousness afoot in the Goodwinter museum? Qwill moves into the farmhouse...of course taking Koko and Yum Yum with him...and things start to go bump in the night. A lot of questions about the history of the Goodwinter familly are revealed in this book.Braun continues to keep me reading and wanting more. Simple mysteries with quirky characters who I've come to love.And two adorable and wise cats.
Any Cat Who book is always a Good Read. Lilian Jackson Braun's series about 2 Siamese & their beloved reporter has been my comfort read for years. Sadly, The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts sees the demise of one of the most beloved characters of the early part of the series.
So I pulled it down from the shelf and thoroughly enjoyed reading it again--I had forgotten much of the story and with the exception of a few deja vue moments, it was a new, enjoyable story.Jim Qwillern, owner of two Siamese cats, Koko and Yum-yum, is called to a Moose county museum by his former housekeeper, Iris Cobb (who is now curator of the Goodwinter Farmhouse Museum) because she truly believes it is haunted and the haunter is stalking her.
When Mrs. Cobb is found dead in the apartment she lives in at the historic Goodwinter farmhouse, Jim Qwilleran and his two housemates, Koko and Yum Yum move in until someone can be found to take Mrs. Cobb's place.Qwill feels that Mrs. Cobb did not die a natural death or that she may have been frightened to death!
When he arrived, he found her already dead.Qwill is not the only one who thinks there is something strange going on.
Is there something under the floor?And then there is the Vince Boswell, his wife Verona and their daughter Baby.
A book set on Halloween (in part).I have wondered about this particular series for some time and though this isn't the first in the series, it is the first I have read.
Since it is a series, I assume you have to continue reading to find answers to many questions which this book left unanswered.
What happened to Kristi, her house, and her goats?
By the way, the was only one reported ghost in the story, Kristi's ancestor.
Since the cats were never in that house, are we to believe that the cat was talking to the ghost of the lady who lived at the museum?
I love reading time spent with characters Jim Qwilleran with Siamese cats Koko and Yum Yum. Mrs.
Iris Cobb, Qwill's former housekeeper, calls him for help but by the time he arrives Mrs. Cobb has died of an apparent heart attack.
There's definitely many elements to investigate even with Moose County's gossip mill in high gear.One of the funniest parts of this novel is reading about Qwill, Koko, and Yum Yum's reactions to his friend Polly's new kitten Bootsie.I always try to put all the clues together to solve the mystery but so far I haven't matched wits correctly.
I'll happily try again with the next novel in the series.
An engaging tale in the Cat Who series with Jim Qwilleran taking over temporarily as the caretaker of an historical museum after the woman who has been running it dies mysteriously, seemingly having been frightened to death.
We get a lot of history of Moose County, and the deaths involved are to a certain explained by an old family Bible, which reveals relationships among some of the old families in town, not always in good ways.
The history museum is featuring a special exhibit on disasters in the area, including a mine explosion, fires, and an apparent lynching of a very unpopular mine owner, shortly after the deaths of 32 men in a mine in 1904.

Quill and Koko and YumYum work together to solve the mystery of Iris Cobb's death. Did she really die of a heart attack? They move into the apartment where she died to listen for the strange sounds she told Quill she had heard. While they look for clues, they also uncover some other secrets for more of the characters included in the cat who books. I'm ready for the next installment.
I got this as gift 🎁 and it is my first cozy cat mystery. And I enjoyed it. Braun crafted a story with a forward moving plot and great characterizations. I love the Siamesers who help crack the case. I was not a big fan of mysteries before this book, but I am looking forward to reading more from Lilian Jackson Braun and other cozy cat mystery authors. (I may even start writing them myself.)
This was my first "The Cat Who" book. I really enjoyed it. It was an easy read. I figured the person who did it for a slimey person just not necessarily the person who did it. I knew they were up to something, just not sure what. I was a little annoyed with the way that Qwill treated Baby and Polly was just all around annoying but all in all I liked the book.
I'm actually a little disappointed - I remember listening to bits of this series in the car with my mum when I was younger, and I really don't remember Qwilleran being nearly so misanthropic as he is in this book.
Not my favorite. Mrs. Cobb dies. A small child is not well-treated, even by Mr. Q. Not much verve in the writing. And why isn't the perp's wife held as an accomplice, even if she does appear to be stupider than dirt?
Maybe it is because I have read a few of The Cat Who books but this was one of the best. It was very descriptive of so many loose ends. I enjoy the completion of something so I thoroughly loved this particular book of the series even though I don't believe in ghosts.
I think this is my favorite book in the series so far! Definitely the most "mysterious" of the mysteries. Completely Lilian Jackson Braun with all the humor, mustache clues and cat talk that is part of her charm!
A nice gentle book with a good plot. On the surface it is a murder mystery, but as ever the stars are the two siamese cats Koko and Yum Yum. Lilian Jackson Braun is excellent at describing the nuances of cat behaviour familiar to all cat owners.
