https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395397.Legends_of_the_Fall
Hollywood's usually harmful compression and redaction of literary source material actually improves on Harrison's novella, in which too much happens too fast over too large a space.
In the novella, by contrast, Harrison seems to try for a spare tale of man against fate, told with lean grace and luminous plainness by a distant and uninvolved narrator – and he fails, bottoms out in preposterous capers and dime novel prose: Susannah led Tristan to the master bedroom to avoid any intrusion by the maids.
I like the form: these feel almost epic in scope, just not in length.I love Harrison's writing, rather solemn, almost elegiac.
All three stories are told in the third person, and primarily follows one male character and his relationships with others."Revenge" takes place in Mexico and the U.S. border states, about a man who falls in love with the wife of a friend, a man with money, authority, and a brutal sense of honor and entitlement.
I'm usually more drawn to female literary authors but I will be looking for more of Harrison's writing.
I've heard positive things about Harrison for years, but much as I wanted to enjoy this trio of novellas I found myself disappointed.
While he is capable of turning a beautiful, poetic sentence now and again, Harrison's stories seem obsessed with summarizing instead of actually narrating.
He tells you what happened incessantly instead of showing you, which, for me at least, makes it heard to really get invested in what's going on.
It's too bad because the title story has some real potential and would probably make a killer novel if it was expanded by a few hundred pages, instead the reader is treated to an ornate summary of what in more capable hands (maybe Cormac Mccarthy's?) could be made into compelling literature.
Jim Harrison's my guy.Revenge: 4/5Perhaps this can be summarized in one sentence: The morning before Mauro and his daughter had found him by the roadside, excepting the following morning when he was nothing but a dying piece of meat rotting through the day into the evening, he had awakened in an uncommon state of what he thought was love.The Man Who Gave Up His Name: 4/5A lot of Harrison's works involve characters who check out: some disappear; some take on new identities; some go mad.
Such as this brief dialogue:"You're looking up my legs," she said."No I wasn't.""If you're honest you can kiss them.""I was."And this little aside:Read a Knut Hamsun novel to see what Norwegians could do (not much).And food.
Harrison loves to eat; loves to cook.

This is a collection of 3 short stories/novellas. Legends of the Fall is by far a 5 star read. The other two are 3.5-4 star reads. Legends of the Fall is what drew me to this read. If you have seen the movie, all the players are there, but the plot is arranged a little differently. 5 stars to the movie and 5 stars to the short story knowing each are a little different from each other.
The movie was passionate, enthralling, and unforgetable. The book, a 100 page short story tucked between the covers with other equally poorly written short stories, is boring, confusing, and disappointing. How anyone ever wrote a screenplay as good as the movie from this short story is beyond me. That person deserves a medal of some sort.
These are 3 very good novellas from Harrison.
I realized I'd never read anything by him, so I picked up this collection of three novellas (unfortunately graced with Brad Pitt and the rest of the movie cast).At first I disliked it, but then I realized that was because I had expected something else -- I was expecting something more along the lines of McCarthy, and Harrison lacks all the southern gothic Faulknerian pretensions that I love in McCarthy's novels.
This simple, reserved style is in dramatic opposition to the violent, tragic, operatic tale of love, betrayal, and death (both accidental and homicidal) that unfolds over 80 short pages.
That said, I don't think I'll bother reading the other two novellas.
The title story was the third in the collection and was really quite different from the movie.
There were several mad people in that one.The second story, The Man who Gave Up His Name, was my least favorite as the character was quite nauseating.
And I never understood the significance of the title.The first story was the gem of this collection.
It was funny, though, because I've seen the movie so many times that I was visualizing it as I was listening and it startled me every single time "Cochran" spoke and it wasn't Kevin Costner's voice!
Certain stories stay with you long after you've read the book.
(And not because my wife has a crush on Brad Pitt, I'm giving all the credit to Jim Harrison.) I read this book almost five years ago and I can still recall almost every moment of the story.
The feelings of the vast wilderness, both geographically and spiritually, that the characters have to roam about makes me suffer both claustrophobia and agoraphobia simultaneously.
You will cheer when the family triumphs; and you will feel sorrow when the family slowly disintegrates.
Легенди за страстта, легенди за мъжете, които взимат това, което пожелаят: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/l...
Три много мъжки творби са събрани зад тая уестърн-корица.
Вероятно повечето хора ще се присетят за филма, аз лично не съм го гледал и четох с чист ум – и мисля, че “Легенди за страстта” е силна, но следващата повест – “Мъст”, е дваж по-силна според мен.
Затова и цялостно съм силно впечатлен от сборника, като реално единственото ми недоволство е от формата, не ми е удобен този и това си е, години наред това ме дразни и в българските издания на Тери Пратчет например.Издателство" Пергамент Прес"​http://knigolandia.info/book-review/l...
عنف رجلٍ مجروح في جسده وقلبه وكبريائه، إثر تعرّضه للخيانة على يد صديق أو زوجة أو الحياة نفسها، ولا يرى خلاصاً له إلا بالانتقام.انتقامو"انتقام" هو عنوان القصة الأولى التي نشاهد في بدايتها كوشران، بطلها، منازعاً في الصحراء المكسيكية قبل أن ينقذه قروي وابنته من الذئاب والطيور الكاسرة التي كانت على وشك التهامه.ومن مراجعته شريط حياته أثناء مرحلة شفائه، يتبيّن لنا أنه طّيار حربي سابق استقرّ بعد طلاقه في مدينة توكسون في ولاية تكساس الأمريكية، حيث كان يمضي وقته في ممارسة رياضة كرة المضرب مع رجال أثرياء، ومن بينهم الملياردير تيبي الذي ينتمي إلى المافيا المكسيكية ويعيش محاطاً بحرّاسه القتلة وبرفقة شابة فاتنة تدعى ميريا، وعلى رغم الصداقة التي تجمعه بهذا الأخير، لن يلبث كوشران أن يقع في حبّ ميريا.
In just 87 pages Jim Harrison tells a story of two generations of the Montana Ludlow family spanning 50 years.
It’s starting point is three young brothers riding from Choteau, Montana to Calgary to enlist in 1914.
It’s the story of a retired fighter pilot and would-be tennis player, Cochran, who is savagely beaten up due to his liaison with the wife of a Mexican drug lord who seeks retribution.
It’s as violent and colourful as the other two stories as would be expected from Harrison.
I love the movie starring Brad Pitt based on the first novella in this book.
Of course it doesn't hurt to look like Brad Pitt.
I also like the idea of masculinity in the movie, the way Anthony Hopkins character, after the stroke, kind of devolves into a grunting, elephant-gun-wielding, buffalo-skin-wearing, old west caveman.
One look at Jim Harrison's author photo, of course, and you can see where Hopkins drew the inspiration for his character from.
I enjoyed this book, not only to see those ideas from the film in their purest form, but also for Harrison's direct writing style, and for the way violence is handled.
Love His Writing styleHarrison has such a sharp, incisive, minimal style. He uses metaphor as well as anyone I've read. And, while he has a dark view of humanity it rings true in many ways. Loved this book.
Even more so when the blurb quotes NYT to say it "may well be the best set of novellas to appear in this country during the last quarter century"In truth, it is a terrible collection, full of clichés and, rather too frequently, more than a whiff of Mary Sue-like wish fulfilment.
The first novella is the most banal revenge-story, the second jumps the shark so many times it left me flabbergasted and the third one, the title story, though an ever so slight improvement on what's preceded it, is devoid of a meaningful structure with characters that are distressingly one-dimensional.
This book contains 3 unrelated novellas (longer than short stories).
I absolutely loved the first one, Revenge.
I now want to track down the movie and watch it.
This story pulled me in and I felt I was hanging on every word.
I also loved the writing.
I loved that.
The second story I didn't care for at all.
The third story was my second favorite.
I've seen that movie before so I knew what was coming.....but still enjoyable.
Short stories, novellas and westerns are not things I seek out, but I'm glad I read this one.
I liked the first, skipped the second, loved Legends of the Fall, and was a bit perturbed by the simplistic portrayals of women (which were not, I think, intentional or self-conscious on Harrison's part)."Revenge" reads like an early Hemingway.
Granted, the ending was unique, very human, and well worth the read."The Man Who Gave Up His Name" I skipped this one after 30 pages.
Harrison can read and explain a soul as if it were a street sign--his poignance amazes me, and for a poet who wrote prose as a secondary venture, the plot was brilliant.
Two complaints/warnings: I read Harrison saying that a poet should write prose essentially for exercise.
Trong bộ phim trải dài gần hết 1 đời người ấy, ba lần Tristan bỏ lại tất cả để ra đi là ba lần anh kiếm tìm mơ hồ một thứ gì đó mà chính anh cũng không phân định được, chỉ biết đó là một phần khuyết mà con người sâu thẳm trong anh luôn khắc khoải mong được lấp đầy.
I think what's really remarkable about Harrison, which, this is only the second collection of three novellas of his that I've read, but each of his pieces are so rich, and but also so varied from one another.
The first in this concerns a bloody story of revenge on the Mexico/U.S. border, the second concerns a middleaged executive somewhere near New York, and the third is set in Montana at the time of and after the first world war.
I will continue to read Harrison's novellas until I've read them all, and I'll certainly read his novels as well.
Total control of the language, rich characters, funny at times.
Having seen and enjoyed the movie many years ago, I figured this would be a good read since it had so many elements that appealed to me: the American west, Native American culture and history, war, family, tragedy, personal and interpersonal conflicts, love triangles, travel, adventure, etc.
For now, I only read the title story.
Way too often I had to go back and parse a sentence or two in order to understand what was being said.
Also, way too often there were sentences that obviously were intended to be very deep and significant, but just left me befuddled.
Other than these mild complaints I really enjoyed this book.
I’d seen the movie but had mostly forgotten all the plot lines and had not been energized by Harrison’s nonfiction writing on food so I felt adventurous and the fiction worthy of an attempt.
Greek tragedy is tame compared to the trials of his characters.
It’s all macho men in the midst of life’s trials and the prose is gorgeous.
He looked around the clearing in recognition that he was lost but didn’t mind because he knew he had never been found.I enjoyed the two other stories more than the titled one.
Sign me up for more of his fiction.
The End.“Legends of the Fall”A white guy (You seeing a pattern here?) who is basically raised by an Indian goes to World War I with his two brothers where one of them gets killed.
Anyway the white guy has a wife at home named Susannah but he abandons her and she marries his only living brother.
After many adventures, white guy comes home to his ranch where he meets a 16-year-old named Two and he goes to bed with her.
So alright white guy fights the Irish guys off for awhile, meets up with Susannah again and they declare their love for each other.
Breakdown:• Revenge, 3 stars• The man who gave up his name, 1.5 star• Legends of the Fall 3.5 stars
Solo me gustó la primera historia
The Legends of the Fall was made into a pretty powerful movie a few years ago, but the story itself is even more powerful.
However, the other two stories, "Revenge," and "The Man Who Gave up His Name," are also quite intense.
In fact, I couldn't "Revenge" at bedtime because it was way too intense.
The second story, "The Man Who Gave up His Name," is, in my opinion, the best of the three, partly because of the focus on the main character, a man who chucks everything, including money and a successful career, to lead the life he wants to lead.Harrison's prose is a delight to read.
What a wonderful book to read! Its narrative is completely different of anything usual, the characters are lovely, walking the thin line between law and nature, the stories evolve in peculiar ways, the sentences are beautiful and the natural spaces (especially in the first and third novellas) are just mind-blowing. A real pleasure to read.
The movie has tainted me and I prefer it to the novella. But Revenge, one of the other novellas in this collection, was great!
Mua xong rồi đem về nhà chưng lên kệ, bao năm qua chả lôi ra nghía lấy một lần, nhân đợt dọn về nhà mới, dọn sách ra bỏ lên kệ, mình mới lôi cuốn này ra đọc :))))Đọc rồi mới thấy hóa ra phim làm khác truyện ở một điểm khá quan trọng, đó là Susannah - người phụ nữ đầu tiên Tristan ở cùng - ban đầu chính là hôn thê của Tristan luôn chứ không phải hôn thê của người em út Samuel như trong phim.
Truyện "Báo thù" đúng là thể hiện được cái chất mãnh liệt và bi tráng như một bản anh hùng ca mà tác giả Jim Harrison đã phả vào truyện "Huyền thoại mùa thu", mặc dù tính sử thi thì không bằng.
