https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228296.Rosemary_s_Baby
”She opened her eyes and looked into yellow furnace-eyes, smelled sulphur and tannis root, felt wet breath on her mouth, heard lust-grunts and the breathing of onlookers.”Nightmare? Passionate dream? Real? How could it be real? It can’t possibly be real.  Rosemary Woodhouse wants a baby. She is married to an actor named Guy. They have recently broken another lease to take an apartment in the exclusive Bramford Building. Guy, who glibly uses his acting skills to spin stories, has no difficulty ex
She is married to an actor named Guy. They have recently broken another lease to take an apartment in the exclusive Bramford Building.
Run, Rosemary, run!I’ve been wanting to read this book for years.
I’ve put off watching the famous movie by Roman Polanski because I wanted to read the book first.
I love it when books are part of the lives of the characters I read about.
I have six volumes of Gibbon staring me in the face every time I pick my next book to read.
If I had read ROSEMARY'S BABY when it first came out- it definitely would have convinced me even further that making babies wasn't for me...When a four bedroom apartment finally comes available in The Bramford building- newlyweds Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse- ignore the warnings from their friend Hutch- that the building is cursed- and excitedly sign a lease.Rosemary thinks The Bramford will be the perfect place to raise a child, and is hoping after they settle in -Guy- an aspiring actor, will warm to the idea of having a baby.Shortly after the couple move in- Rosemary meets her first neighbor in the laundry room- Terry- a young woman, down on her luck, who has been welcomed in by the elderly couple next door.
The book centers on Rosemary Woodhouse, a young woman who has just moved into the Bramford, an old Gothic Revival style New York City apartment building with her husband, Guy, a struggling actor.
Ultimately, Rosemary finds that she is wrong about the coven's reason for wanting the baby — the baby that she delivers is the Antichrist, and Guy is not actually the father, Satan is.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه ژانویه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: بچه ی رزمری؛ نویسنده آیرا لوین؛ مترجم: محمد قائد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر کلاغ، 1394، در 291 ص، شابک: 9786007656006؛ بچهٔ رُزمری، رمانی کوتاه یا داستانی بلند، از یکی از بهترین نمونه‌ های ایجاد تعلیق، میان وهم و واقعیت است.
I'm a true friend.This is the story of Rosemary Woodhouse, a young woman married to a struggling actor named Guy (whose real name, I am sorry to say, is Sherman - a detail that doesn't come up in the movie, but I thought it was interesting enough to share) who is your standard Sixties WASP.
The exact quote is "I didn't want to miss Baby Night."Yeah, you're a dick.Rosemary feels pretty violated, rightly so, but convinces herself she's just being silly because Sixties Housewives aren't raped by their husbands, Guy has had a really hard time of things, she's sure she's just being sensitive.
"She didn’t know if she was going mad or going sane…"Well, this classic horror novel certainly hit the spot this month!
This is a book very firmly set in the period of 1966 New York City, yet it never feels outdated on the creepiness scale!
Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse are newly married, Guy is trying to establish his acting career, and the couple tosses around the idea of having their first baby.
When the opportunity arises to secure an apartment at the highly sought-after Bramford, the Woodhouses jump at the chance.
And we all know that history has a way of repeating itself.
This is why I will never have children.
In an afterword penned in 2003 and included in this edition, Levin expresses surprise by how faithful the hit film was to his book--preserving virtually all of the characters and scenes and even much of the author's dialogue--perhaps because no one told Polanski, making his first American film, that he was allowed to make changes.Opening with the pop and the sizzle of a tabloid photo, the novel centers on Rosemary Woodhouse, a Manhattan wife in her early twenties who with her husband Guy, a striving actor, are notified that a four-room apartment has opened up in the Bramford, a 19th century building the couple has been wait listed for since their wedding.
ROSEMARY'S BABY is creepy as HELL!I truly had no intention of reading this novel until I realized Ira Levin was the author.
He sure could write creepy-scary too, and as with his other novels, he moves right along in the telling describing a 1966 New York City setting, young newlyweds Rosemary and Guy, and their new place of residence in the 'old' Bramford apartment building with a very dark history.If you've only seen the scary as HELL movie, you'll find the book very similar, if not exactly the same, complete with weird 'old' nosy neighbors, smelly charms and potions, mysterious debilitating spells and suicides, and a very unpleasant and shocking encounter.
"This is no dream......This is real....This is happening."
holy mother of fucksticles thatwasaye-maze-ing 4.75 This is no dream, she thought. This is real, this is happening. stars.Rosemary and her husband Guy are moving, looking for an apartment to have their children. When a place opens up at Bramford, they do all they can to get it, but it may have been the worst decision of their lives...Rosemary and Guy have been married for several years, Guy is a failing actor, he just can't find any jobs. Rosemary is a housewife and only thinks about having chil
stars.Rosemary and her husband Guy are moving, looking for an apartment to have their children.
But the last 10% was really like a soap opera, and was unbelievable (I know, I know, (view spoiler)[it's a horror with the devil) (hide spoiler)] but the scenario wasn't realistic.Ira Levin has a real way with words, every letter, every word, every sentence seemed meticulously checked and useful.
The horror of this book is not the devil, nor his baby-demon.
The horror of this book is represented by the corrupt, deranged mortals who surround Rosemary, all of them led by Guy, her husband.
He sold his wife's body for success.
He drugged her, stood there and watched his wife being rapped by the devil.He stood there and watched her conceive the devil's child...
And he stood there and watched while Rosemary was being used as a cow to milk, all the while letting her think her child was dead.I despise him and his friends.
3.5OH GOD 💔💔'
This book might not be the most modern one out there, but it's still timeless, written in the era of the "love generation" and incorporating subtle elements of creepiness into the story until finally, it takes a dramatic turn for the bizarre and sinister.
This book just isn't the same without the accompanying film though, the vibrant bright colors of celluloid film and the excellent acting and soundtrack were what brought this story to life.
So if you're going to read this book, seek out the original film as well, it's much better reading and watching together.
This is no dream, she thought. This is real, this is happening. Note to self and others: beware of overly friendly neighbours.This is amazing. At just over 200 pages, this novel takes you on a hell (excuse the pun) of a journey that you won’t forget anytime soon. Levin has managed to make a novel so witty, and at the same time, so terrifying. In a way, the tone of this book is reminiscent of American Psycho (or rather American Psycho is reminiscent of this as it came out afterwards), but rather
That’s not to say you won’t like this going into it blind, I’m sure the tension and horror of this will affect you just the same way and﻿ you'll get the pleasure of the pure shock of the discovery, something I didn't.I’ve said previously that I find it hard to really hate a character in a book, as I often find things to like about them, despite all their bad ways, but that’s not the case in this one.
Levin is an incredible writer and I’m now aiming to read the rest of his work by the end of the year (yes, even Son of Rosemary, even though it has the worst ratings ever).P.S. Even if you don’t like horror, you’ll most likely enjoy this book as it’s not openly trying to freak you out.
“There’s nothing to be afraid of, Rosemary; honest and truly there isn’t.” If you've seen the movie, you've basically read the book. I never realized what a faithful adaptation Polanski made, down to entire passages of dialogue and what clothes the characters wore. That said, both the book and the movie are fantastic.I have to give the movie the slight edge due to Mia Farrow's outstanding performance, but I had a great time reading this.
Masterpiece!
Un libro de terror que no da nada de miedo, pero sí un sentido de urgencia muy bien logrado, sobre todo cuando Rosemary comienza a sospechar y darse cuenta de lo que está sucediendo, algo que para el lector es más que evidente casi desde un principio.Fue muy convincente para toda la trama esa ambientación de los años ’60, que se nota sobre todo en el tipo de relación de Rosemary y Guy y que refleja subrepticiamente la dependencia de la mujer en el matrimonio en esos años.El final...
I would like to start of this review by posting a special NOTICE for folks who own this novel from THE STEPHEN KING HORROR LIBRARY and have not read the novel before.
But this is the first time that I have read something written by Stephen King that made me want to punch the man in the face.
I don't mean that literally of course, but it's the best way that I can describe the frustration I felt after reading his very well-written analysis of the book and his reasons for including it in his collection.
Υπαρχουν βιβλια που σου θυμιζουν άλλα βιβλια και υπαρχουν και αυτα τα βιβλια που ειναι κλασικα, που 
Κλασικό και πολύ δυνατό μεταφυσικό θρίλερ. Όλα στην πλοκή χτίζονται τούβλο-τούβλο και οδηγούν αναπόφευκτα στο τέλος. Αρκετά ψυχολογική η προσέγγυση στον τρόμο, ενώ η συνήθης κακή ποιότητα των εκδόσεων της Βιβλιοθήκης του Τρόμου εδώ δεν δημιουργεί πρόβλημα.Ανεξαρτήτως έκδοσης (υπάρχουν τρείς στα Ελληνικά) αξίζει να το διαβάσετε.
Όλα ξεκίνησαν όταν είδα για πρώτη φορά το επεισόδιο 38 του Κωνσταντίνου και Ελένης όπου η Πέγκι θέλει να κάνει τη σκηνή με τη Μία Φάρροου που σκύβει πάνω από τη κούνια του παιδιού της και ανακαλύπτει ότι είναι ένα τέρας.
(Au Mon dieu!)Και έτσι έβαλα και είδα το τρέιλερ μια φορά, δυο φορές, τρεις φορές.Και ήρθε η στιγμή να τ' αγοράσω φέτος τον Ιούλη και να το διαβάσω τον Οκτώβρη για το Χάλογουιν.Και παρόλο που ήξερα την ιστορία και περί τίνος πρόκειται αυτό δεν στάθηκε εμπόδιο στο να απολαύσω αυτό το βιβλίο σαν να μην είχα ιδέα.Υπήρχε μια έντονη αίσθηση παράνοιας.
That was definitely the scariest part, to see how poor Rosemary got manipulated and forced into her pregnancy and how she was a lamb to the slaughter (well, not the literal one, but almost) from the very beginning.
And of course I dig the social satire on New Yorkers, how they would praise Satan just for the sheer eccentricity of it, but I guess you got to be one yourself to appreciate it completely.
However, I can definitely imagine the strongly aged "Sex and The City" quartet praising Dark Lord in exchange for unlimited access to rejuvenation and blahniks.
Jedan od klasika napisanih u okviru horor žanra, "Rozmarina beba" na odličan način dočarava unutrašnju borbu kroz koju prolazi protagonistkinja Rozmari Vudhaus.Mladi bračni par okreće novu stranicu u njihovim životima onda kada odluče da se presele u stan koji se nalazi u zloglasnoj zgradi Bamford.
Psihološki pritisak koji se stvara je u jednom trenutku toliko jak da imate osećaj da ćete vi pući.Sam kraj je za mene bio najzanimljiviji zbog promene u Rozmarinom poimanju stvari i obrtu koji je usledio.
4.5 StarsI admit that I'm a little torn on what to rate this book, so I split the difference, although I'm really tempted to go all StarSearch™ up in this piece and do 4.75 stars.
Are you STUPID?!" but then Mia does such an insanely great job at showing us this small town, kinda sheltered girl on her own in the big city, with her barely-married-a-year husband, in way over her head, super excited that she's FINALLY pregnant, and just wanting to do the right thing, even though she's not sure just what that is.
Little by little, Rosemary begins to feel uncomfortable with this acquaintance and with Guy’s behavior.Spoilers from here on, please do not read if you haven’t read the book or seen the movie.As most people know, the neighbors are actually part of a coven of witches who are on the lookout for a young fertile woman they can use to bring the child of Satan into the world.
It’s that Rosemary, who has considered going back to work and constantly wishes she could spend more time with HER friends, never questions Guy’s authority and allows him to belittle her constantly until she is hanging around, spiritless and submitted, left with nothing but her thoughts and the company of nosy old people.
Acabo de terminar este libro y aún no sé si su final me resulta una pasada o un despropósito.
Por ahora lo que si sé es que ha sido un libro correcto.
Y no en el buen sentido por que fuese un libro tan bueno que quiero más.
Me quedé con ganas de más, porque me faltaron hojas y acción.
Y es una pena porque tiene una cosa muy importante de alabar en los libros de intriga o suspende: la tensión siempre va en aumento.
Aunque ya veo que no tiene ni por asomo la misma reputación que éste.
3.5 starsI really quite liked it! It wasn't scary but there was a nice tension throughout the book and a great climax.If you like the movie, there's a good chance you'll enjoy the novel as well. Both are very similar and Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is easily one of the best horror adaptations out there. Overall, a good way to start the #SpookyBRB month!
In Jesus' name I pray!Even though I'm an agnostic, who occasionally flirts with atheism, I have a strong urge to steal a hanging incense burner from the closest church, and start swinging it around my apartment.Είναι εκπληκτικό πως, ενώ από την αρχή βλέπουμε τα πάντα μόνο από την οπτική γωνία της Ρόζμαρυ, υπάρχει μια δυσκολία να δεθείς μαζί της, και αυτό οφείλεται στην αφήγηση που ξεκινά άχρωμη, με απλές παραθέσεις γεγονότων.
(hide spoiler)]Υ.Γ Αυτό που είναι ακόμη πιο εκπληκτικό, είναι πως στην ταινία ο Ρόμαν Πολάνσκι μέσα από τα πλάνα του δίνει κλιμακωτά, το ίδιο αίσθημα προσέγγισης και ταύτισης του θεατή με τον χαρακτήρα.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I enjoyed this book so much!! I couldn't read this fast enough. The writing style the pacing was delivered expertly, with the right amount of creepiness that never felt over the top. I loved everything from beginning to end, including the slightly ambiguous ending. I will definately have to source some of this author's other books. I have watched most of his movie adaptations but not read his books up until now. I will have to rectify that quick smart!
“Now with Ira Levin’s urban horror classic, the enemy is everyone.” The enemy is indeed everywhere, hiding behind a face of friendly elderly neighbours who welcome Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse into their new apartment building.
Apart from Guy’s emotional-and-mental abuse, Mr. and Mrs. Castavet take complete control of Rosemary's pregnant body by deciding her doctor for her, and forbid her from doing any research or ask for second opinions.
The more controlling everyone gets, the more you start to wonder if the baby is really Rosemary’s.
The movie followed the novel very closely, so there will be no surprises for you if you've seen it.But it is still very much worth the few hours it takes to chow this one down.Even though the ending is known, the novel still has such a sinister aspect to it,so subtle at first, then slowly becoming more evident, that this makes it an excellent read.And good luck hearing anything else but Mia Farrow's voice in Rosemary's dialogue.Like Jodie Foster's Clarice, there can only be one voice for Rosemary.Deliciously creepy, and a great, fast read.Edit: I just remembered what else I wanted to mention.
I have absolutely no issue with off-putting words in the dialogues of characters, but when it's in the author's descriptive narrative, I really don't like it.
