https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22822892-the-fires-of-autumn
Ugualmente profondi sono i cambiamenti che intervengono in Bernard, un adolescente nel 1914 che parte per la prima guerra mondiale pieno di entusiasmo ed incoscienza, torna frastornato da una guerra che lo ha reso cinico e svuotato di sentimenti, desideroso soltanto di buttarsi a capofitto in una vita sociale frenetica con una “fame di vita” che gli facesse dimenticare le trincee e la guerra, durante gli anni ’20-’30 frequenta affaristi senza scrupoli, truffatori dediti ad accumulare denaro in modi per nulla chiari, e poi il fallimento, la perdita di tutto, e di nuovo la guerra, diversa da quella di vent’anni prima, che si porta via l’unico figlio maschio di Bernard, Yves, mentre il padre viene fatto prigioniero dai tedeschi.
Written in 1940, after Nemirovsky fled Paris and two years before her death at Auschwitz, The Fires of Autumn is being marketed as a “spiritual prequel” to Suite Française because though it doesn’t have the same characters it takes takes place in France in the years before the events of the other book.The Fires of Autumn follows a diverse but connected set of Parisian families from the days of optimistic confidence before WWI, and carries them through the despair and disillusionment of the war itself, the intoxicating moral and monetary temptations of the 1920’s, and the financial and cultural adjustments of the 1930’s.
Anche i faccendieri opportunisti e gli affaristi corrotti, che si arricchiscono sulla pelle degli altri, sono ben descritti dalla Némirovsky, rivelandone una approfondita conoscenza ed una feroce critica personale.
Un romanzo duro e spietato che è anche una forte critica dell’autrice verso quella Francia che la tradirà, trascinandola a forza verso la folle spirale di orrore dei campi di concentramento nazisti.Ho sofferto, talvolta, nel leggere alcuni episodi; altre volte ho provato rabbia e disprezzo, ma, in generale, non mi sono mai sentito partecipe fino in fondo; forse perché nessuno dei personaggi mi ha fatto...
Spanning such a long period also works in the novel’s favour.As with many of Nemirovsky’s novels, The Fires of Autumn has been translated by Sandra Smith, who has such control over the original material and renders it into a perfectly fluid and beautiful piece.
Indeed, The Fires of Autumn is a beautiful piece of writing, which encompasses many different themes and marvellously demonstrates the way in which Paris altered over several decades, and how this drastic change affected families just like the Bruns.
SPOILERSL'argomento di questo romanzo è la guerra e di come, essa, può cambiare le persone.E' la storia d'amore tra una giovanissima ragazza, Thérèse, e di un giovane, Bernard, timido e spensierato.Bernard si arruolerà come soldato e parteciperà alla prima guerra mondiale, sopravviverà solo il suo fisico, perchè la sua anima sarà perduta.
( Per colpa di un suo losco affare, perderà il suo giovane figlio in guerra.)"NON E' GIUSTO CHE L'INNOCENTE, PAGASSE PER IL COLPEVOLE" ( tratto dal libro:)Thérèse sarà un personaggio molto importante, nel romanzo, la sua umiltà, la sua forza e l'immenso amore per i figli, ma soprattutto per il marito, la sosterranno nei momenti più duri.
Suite Francais was recognized as Irene Nemirovsky's masterpiece when it finally was translated a few years back, garnering her a worldwide following.
Based on these two, I found reading novels written during the early 20th century by people who lived in Europe at the time provided insights and emotional depths not possible for others who have not shared the experience.
Set mostly in Paris, the story follows the fate of several families beginning in 1912 before the First War, carrying them through to the early years of the Second.
Never has the effect of war on middle class people been so eloquently presented.
It’s everything, on the page, and the Shakespearian irony of knowing-what’s-to-come only seems to heighten your literary senses for the beauty of it.‘...if people truly wanted to consider how complex and serious everything was, they would have no choice but to shoot themselves in the head.’Where it lacks is in character, and more particularly, in the ‘lost gen’ disparate ethos development.
Maybe it lacks because I can’t help but compare her vision to the likes of Louis Ferdinand Céline and Henry Miller, which isn’t fair on Némirovsky—her project does differ—but I just can’t help it.
This is the first book, that I’ve read by Irene Nemirovsky, The Fires of Autumn is considered to be the prequel of her famous novel Suite Française.
The Fire of Autumn is the narration of how the war effects the people.
It is a story of betrayal, pain, and loss of innocent.Bernard was only seventeen when the First World War had started, he eagerly volunteers to go to fight for his country.
Then the Second World War starts and he once again is called to fight for his country.
Having read recently Werth's 33 Days & having commented on the French soldiers exodus after fighting for a timeduring Germany's invasion into France, this story brings the subject that much more clearer unless you read a non fiction account which I have the interest at some point to do so.
This story was written completed in the spring of 1942 & was published posthumously by her publisher/friend Albin Michel in 1957.I knew Nemirovsky was compared to Tolstoy but not until reading this book did I see that was so obvious and like War in Peace but a century later.
The Fires of Autumn begins with WWI and the return home of the main protagonist Bernard Jacquelain, a man broken and changed from his time in the trenches and the horrors he has been witness to, which lead him down a path of corruption and post-war excess which ultimately lead him to a more sedate life, a wife, and a comfortable life, at least until the rumors of WWII begin and everything Bernard has built and dreamt about begin to crumble.
Némirovsky’s prose is beautiful as one would expect and while the book is rather compact it contains a wealth of information about the time between the world wars, Némirovsky is rather gifted at creating atmosphere and it was quite easy to imagine oneself within the story.
Ratings on this one are very high and I appreciate that the setting is Paris during the years spanning the two world wars, but I found the frequent shift in "lead" character distracting.
There is nothing especially enchanting about this Paris.
At first bourgeois and constricting, then venal and rapacious, these people seem like the less glamorous version of the Jazz Age. I did think the experience of the First World War soldier was presented well, but the various generations of women on the home front pale by comparison.
Una storia costruita per accumulo, di descrizioni e vicende, con i due protagonisti che vivono una profonda trasformazione morale, perfettamente inserita nel contesto francese dalla vigilia della I Guerra Mondiale fino all'ipotetica fine della II (che N.
C'è una frase che non riesco a togliermi dalla testa, la vecchia Mme Pain - nonna di Thérese la protagonista - che vedendo la nipote nelle panie di un amore abbastanza altalenante (Bernard), fa una riflessione sulla bellezza dell'amore, della gioventù, della generosità per arrivare all'oggi, alla vecchiaia, dove sono rimaste solo le piccole cose che danno serenità "éplucher les legumes" ....
Dopo la fine della guerra e con il ritorno dei soldati dal fronte, Thérèse incontra il suo amico d'infanzia Bernard Jacquelain e si ritrova a provare per lui sentimenti d'amore e attrazione, che (forse) in fondo sono sempre stati presenti nel suo cuore.
La vita non si è rivelata generosa con lei, ma l'immenso amore che prova per i figli e il marito la sosterrà nei momenti più duri della sua vita.Come dicevo la sua storia d’amore con Bernard è una storia tormentata e faticosa; i due si attraggono e si respingono continuamente.Bernard Jacquelain appare per la prima volta davanti agli occhi del lettore come un ragazzo di quindici anni pieno di sogni e ancora in pantaloni corti.
He becomes involved in “crooked deals” which “had to do with procuring what was superfluous rather than what was actually necessary, deals that fed on bluff, publicity and expenditure until they reached the point where they worked endlessly just to produce enough money to spend, and needed still more to make more.” Then World War II begins.I really enjoyed Suite Française but I was disappointed with this book which the publisher calls its prequel.
Comme souvent avec les brefs romans d'Irène Némirovsky, le récit est palpitant, haletant et bien souvent tragique.L'histoire d'une jeune femme de bonne famille, Thérèse, petit bourgeois, qui se complait dans un rôle effacé succombe aux avances de Bernard, ce jeune homme fougueux et imbu de lui-même.
Entre bourgeoisie traditionnelle et nouveaux esthètes d'une vie palpitante, l'auteur joue comme à son habitude de sa plume pour dresser de portrait de personnages, jamais caricaturaux, mais toujours touchants qui se débattent avec leur temps.
Bernard enlists an enthusiastic innocent, and returns a different man, amoral and materialistic, anxious only to make the most money for the least effort.Therese, whose young husband never returns from the Front, is attracted to Bernard, but as a second world war looms, their unhappy marriage seems doomed.Lives tainted and torn apart by war, a society riddled with hypocrisy and selfish greed.But as a prisoner of war, far from home, Bernard seems at last to question the values that have shaped his career ...The novel was finished in 1941, a year before the author's death.
Would there have been a sequel ?
Nemirovsky is one of my favorite authors; she was sublimely talented and tragically her life ended too soon.
Like her other works, this is a beautifully written novel with meticulously drawn characters and intertwining story lines.
I can't say that I identified with any of the characters or really even liked them, but I think that was the point.
Nemirovsky creates a portrait of the generation, her generation, that abruptly came of age during WWI, created and reveled in the excess of the 20s and sought atonement for this excess during WWII.
For a short book, just over 200 pages, this was amazing in the way it evoked a deep sense of historical significance. Much of it paralleled   The Great Gatsby ; the disillusionment of the generation after WWI, the cynicism and shallowness that valued only conspicuous wealth, but there was far more complexity in the characters themselves. I definitely want to read more from this author.
Una grande autrice che analizza con fredda e chirurgica precisione stati d'animo ed emozioni, affrontando in modo schietto e diretto tematiche complesse. Impossibile non restare affascinati dai suoi romanzi!
Adoro il suo stile, la sua scrittura. Non mi identifico interamente nei suoi personaggi ma hanno sempre qualcosa che mi attira. Riesce a cambiare la trama in una frase o anche solo alcune parole. Si deve sempre prestar attenzione o si perdono pezzi (parole) importanti della storia.
The latter part of the book is set in the Second World War, and the subsequent 'Fall of France'.I loved this book for a variety of reasons.
Too often we find that characters are depicted without looking at the human side of them.
This book takes a look at each character and paints a very unique picture of each and every one of them.
However, as the war progresses, he sees the damaging effects it causes to the people he loves and respects.When he finally is able to go to the Front, he finds that war is not what he originally thought it was going to be.
La guerra trasforma gli animi.Bernard ragazzo studioso e spensierato si arruola volontario durante la prima guerra mondiale all'età di 18 anni, all'inizio è fiero e valoroso spinto da un ingenuo patriottismo ma quattro anni di fatica, di orrore, di dolore, di amarezza, delusione e demotivazione hanno cambiato profondamente la sua anima.
Tornato a casa disprezza la vita borghese condotta dai genitori, la trova piatta, noiosa e insulsa, il suo unico interesse è guadagnare quanto più denaro possibile, indifferentemente dalle modalità, per goderselo in donne e vizi.
Es hat lange gedauert, bis ich "reingekommen" bin - na gut, ein moralischer Roman, ein schönes Zeitporträt, etwas sentimental, schwer zu sagen, ob es an der Übersetzung oder am Original liegt...
Die Liebesgeschichte im Zentrum fand ich oft eher irritierend und wenig glaubwürdig, obwohl Thérèse mit ihrem unerschütterlichen Prinzipien und ihrer Hingabe trotz allem ein berührender Charakter war.
Der männliche Protagonist ist egoistisch, eitel und unvernünftig, ein rundum ärgerlicher Charakter.
Gegen Ende hat es mich dann doch noch gepackt, wurde zu einem eindrucksvollen Stimmungsbild der Zeit um den Zweiten Weltkrieg und führt dann doch vor Augen, wie sehr Menschen in Europa heute den Frieden gewohnt sind und erwarten, wie sehr sich das Leben von Menschen, die den Krieg erlebt haben, von unserem unterscheidet, und wie fragil der Friede ist.
This story, “The Fires of Autumn”, takes place in the period just before the one described in “Suite Francoise”.The novel begins in Paris in 1912 with two middle class families, the Bruns and the Jaquelains enjoying a meal together.
She, a compliant woman with her own self-interests, readily falls for the charms of anyone who is young, charming and attractive.Bernard benefits from his relationship with Raymond, makes money and is relatively happy, but when Renee is unfaithful, he turns to his childhood friend Therese, a very different woman who he marries.
The novel closes as Therese faithfully awaits Bernard’s return home from the war.
I had expectations for this book but came away disappointed. It touched on the wars and the lives of the people BUT the focus was on the greed of the wealthy, the lack of morality after the first war, greed, and living high. It is a story of a love lost too early and then replaces by an egotistical, greedy man who, only after losing everything in the end came back to a wife and family he had abandoned, cheated on and ignored until he lost everything himself. Very disappointed in this book.
Némirovsky is a wonderful writer. I can’t believe her writing had fallen into obscurity! I’m glad they’ve all been retranslated and printed. Following the interwoven fates of two Parisian families from just before WWI through to WWII, the author is able to show the events through both male and female experiences. This is the first book I’ve read that makes it really clear why the Roaring Twenties happened, and completely removes any romance about that era.
Lo scenario è la Francia del XX secolo. In una Parigi sconvolta dai due grandi conflitti mondiali si intrecciano le vite di persone ordinarie, i loro sogni, le loro aspirazioni e illusioni. La scrittura della Némirovsky è a tratti malinconica, piena di una dolce amarezza che è quasi possibile percepire. Romanzo breve, purtroppo, ma bello, bello, bello.
Very evocative of era and experience and if you like Suite Francais you are sure to enjoy it. I think the last 20 pages let it down, and tragically the author would never have known the conclusion to WWII and the havoc it brought to Europe. I don’t think the idea of a happy ending is plausible for this couple, though.
Other reviewers have explained what the story is about, so I won't repeat it all! I loved Suite Français, and I loved The Fires of Autumn. It is beautifully and sensitively written and I thoroughly recommend it.
Written two years before she was sent to Auschwitz this book is the prequel to Suite Francaise which I remember as being really good. A story of French life between the wars, a novel of war and its aftermath, and of the ugly color it can turn a man's soul.
