https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18373214-cockroaches
Review was originally published on my Blog Through the Chapters  “No persons or events mentioned in this book should be confused with real persons or events. Reality is far too strange for that.”  New country. A dark case. The demons that Harry Hole has to fight; to stay sane; to keep moving.It is like having a déjà vu where the theme is the same but the details have changed. The Norwegian ambassador to Thailand is found dead in a Bangkok brothel, and the Inspector Harry Hole is dispatched from
The Norwegian ambassador to Thailand is found dead in a Bangkok brothel, and the Inspector Harry Hole is dispatched from Oslo to help hush up the case.
What is more, he brings up important issues such as pederasty, pedophilia and sex industry that bothers not only Bangkok but also a great variety of countries all over the world.The writing is eloquent, fluent and lively, giving the opportunity to the readers to go deep into Harry’s inner world and to bond with him.The characters were well-developed, believable, and multidimensional.
I expected the same from Cockroaches, which was finally released here last month, but as I suggested above, I was surprised by how much I liked it.The book opens when Norway’s ambassador to Thailand is found stabbed to death in a sleazy motel in Bangkok, while apparently awaiting the arrival of a young prostitute.
As I suggested in my review of The Bat, it does seem a little odd that a series involving a Norwegian detective would begin with two books set in foreign countries, but in the end, I enjoyed them both and am relieved that I can finally read all of the books in this series in order.
I love Harry Hole. That's the only thing I have to say.
Norwegians living and dying in Bangkok.And lots of cavorting too.Whether you’re a Dirty Harry Callahan fan or prefer your super sleuths wearing a deer slayer hat, fans of the crime mystery genre have hit on a cool fact: Scandinavians make good crime fiction.Certainly the late Stieg Larsson has captured the lion’s share of the recent market, but Norwegian writer Jo Nesbo has found a winning formula with his Harry Hole stories.
Hole, too, is a character that Nesbo can get some mileage out of, he has many of the cliché traits of the modern detective: alcoholism, social ineptitude, dogmatic and earnest searching for the truth – while still being written as a believable character.
I will keep persisting though to try and get a better grip of Harry.
I did the audio again, as my library doesn’t have a great range to choose from and this time around it was quite distracting listening.
I’m not happy with Harry in the last scene though, it seems his demons got the better of him this time round.
Harry, I really want you to do better the next time I catch up with you, let’s chase those demons away.
I care for Harry and want to know more than I’m hearing so far.
Odd as that seems for founding a series, it works for me to effectively highlight Harry’s essential character as a lone man deserving to brought in out of the rain before he gets too alienated.The case here concerns the murder of the Norwegian ambassador to Thailand, who is found with a knife in his back in a brothel.
Harry may be a bit stereotyped as a cop with a mix of the tough and the tender, and the books are no literary wonders, but they have enough nutrition to absolve any guilt I might feel over eagerly making a periodic meal out of them.
Ο χάρι ήπιε αυτό,ο χάρι ήπιε εκείνο, ο χάρι είναι λιώμα. Κάθε καημός και Ντακ(ι)ρι. Μέτριο και το δεύτερο βιβλίο.
Norway is not a factor in either of these novels.Second, it is fairly well agreed-upon that within these first two novels Nesbo is honing his skills; as a writer, a budding genius where it concerns crafting a plot, and his setting the stage for what will later become, in my opinion, the best presentation of what exactly constitutes a flawed hero: the fabulous Harry Hole.
Σαφέστατη η βελτίωση της γραφής μετά το χλιαρό πρώτο βιβλίο της σειράς. Αρχίζει να εμφανίζεται εδώ η προσωπικότητα του Χάρη, όπως τη γνωρίζουμε από τα επόμενα βιβλία της σειράς.
Dosadna prica, predvidljiva, puna klisea a tek plot holes, omg...Jako jako lose, a ovog puta za razliku od Slepog misa nije bilo niti jednog zanimljivog sporednog lika.Likovi su uopste najslabija strana obe knjige, papir do papira, pogotovo zenski likovi.Mozda su bubasvabe bile jedini likovi vredni pomena jer se pominju u nekoliko navrata i to mi je bilo i najzanimljivije od svega.
A zavrsnica je bila losa kopija Slepog misa.Da, moram da pomenem da ono sto je Hari provalio, ni Serlok Holms ne bi.
Περισσότερα στο μπλογκ για όποι@ ενδιαφέρεται.Περιέργως ξεκίνησα από το 2ο βιβλίο της σειράς με τον επιθεωρητή Χόλε, αν και εικάζω ότι λίγη σημασία έχει αυτό στην κατανόησή του ως χαρακτήρα.
Αρχικά βρήκα ενδιαφέρουσα την επιλογή του Νέσμπε να απομακρυνθεί από την Σκανδιναβία, με δεδομένο μάλιστα ότι πρόκειται για γεωγραφικό χώρο-brandname στην αστυνομική λογοτεχνία, και να τοποθετήσει την ιστορία στην Μπανγκόκ.
Η υπόθεση στον πυρήνα της έχει δουλευτεί αρκετά και η παρακολούθησή της κυλάει ευχάριστα για τον αναγνώστη, ωστόσο θεωρώ ότι το πλούσιο αστικό τοπίο της Μπανγκόκ και οι χαρακτήρες, συμπεριλαμβανομένου του Χάρι, δεν αξιοποιούνται για να εμπλουστεί η εμπειρία της ανάγνωσης.
Το 2ο βιβλίο της σειράς του Χάρι Χολε δε με τρέλανε.
Γεγονός.
Υπήρχαν αρκετά οικονομικά αλισβερίσια και δε καταλάβαινα τι γινόταν σ ' αυτά τα σημεία.
Άσε που όλοι οι χαρακτήρες (πλην του Χολε) ήταν καινούριοι οπότε έπρεπε να μάθω πόσα νέα ονόματα (και να σημειωθεί ότι επισήμως με μπερδεύουν τα νορβηγικά ονόματα...Μπρεκε, Μουλβες, Βιιγκ..φτααανει,μη μου λες άλλα).
Απ την άλλη είχε το σασπένς του,είχε το αίνιγμα του,είχε την αγωνία του...πανέξυπνος ο Νεσμπο.
Τη δουλειά του την έκανε,άδικη να μην είμαι.
Στα θετικά βάζω επισης ότι αυτή τη φορά μας ταξίδεψε στην Μπανγκόκ...μ' αυτά και μ' αυτά πολυταξιδεμενος ο Χολε, πολυταξιδεμενος και ο αναγνώστης!
Thailand is the perfect place for him to indulge his demons and his attraction to violence where it concerns cracking the case: it’s far enough away from Norway that he isn’t being constantly monitored by his peers and also this part of Thailand seems to give off a vibe that just about anything goes.Look, I didn’t enjoy Cockroaches as much as The Bat. It breaks my heart to say this because I love Harry so much.
The novel balances Harry's personal life, own demons and the murder mystery well.
Focusing mostly on the action and intrigue (and some the most intense violence read by this reader for a while) with just enough contact with 'Sis' and Harry's father to tug at heart strings and drive Harry onward.My only beef is that the epilogue is a little light - with so much carnage in this story one wants a little more loose end tying and (at far as I can recall) Redbreast does not confront these at all (aside from searing criticisms from various colleagues which is a common feature of Hole novels)In short, while many may be worried that Cockroaches won't sit well with them after being further through the series, Harry's trip to Thailand has an almost episodic feel to that prevents discombobulation from the timeline jumping.
9/10Για τους περισσότερους από τους φίλους μου αυτό ήταν ένα βιβλίο κάπου στο 7/10 αλλά εμένα με κέρδισε για τα καλά. Κάπου ίσως οι χαρακτήρες να μην ήταν τόσο αψεγάδιαστοι όσο σε μεταγενέστερα βιβλία του Νέσμπο, αλλά νομίζω ότι το αντισταθμίζει η υπόθεση και κυρίως η ροή της. Μπορεί κανείς να κάτσει και να γράψει ένα σωρό επιχειρήματα, αλλά εγώ θα σταθώ στο πιο απλό:Ήθελα να μάθω συνεχώς τι θα γίνει παρακάτω. Συμπέρασμα. Το βιβλίο πέτυχε τον σκοπό του.
This is set in Bangkok an while investigating the case, Harry gets the attention of some crime lords and sees the seedy/dangerous underbelly of the city - prostitution, drugs, child pornography, etc.I found this book to be a fast read after an initial slow start - don't get me wrong, the opening scene was great but I found some other parts to drag a little.
It was not my first Jo Nesbo book nor was it my first in the Harry Hole series.
Οι Κατσαρίδες είναι το δεύτερο κατά σειρά βιβλίο της σειράς, με πρωταγωνιστή τον Χάρι Χόλε.Εγώ , βέβαια (όπως νομίζω και πολύ άλλοι , καθόσον οι εκδόσεις των βιβλίων της σειράς δεν έγιναν με την κανονική σειρά) το άφησα για το τέλος και συγκεκριμένα προτελευταίο, με τελευταίο την Νυχτερίδα, ακόμα στα αδιάβαστα.Αυτό που ήθελα, αρχικά, από το βιβλίο, ήταν να είναι ευκολοδιάβαστο, να κυλάει η ροή του.
Σίγουρα η εξέλιξη της ιστορίας του συγκεκριμένου βιβλίου δεν με έπεισε , ούτε με εντυπωσίασε όσα κάποια άλλα βιβλία του, αλλά με δεδομένο ότι είναι το δεύτερο της σειράς , το ξαναλέω ότι ήταν μια χαρά.ΥΓ1: Με το τεσσάρι μπορεί να αδικώ ορισμένα άλλα βιβλία της σειράς, που έδωσα και σε εκείνα τεσσάρι.
He isn't very well characterized, and I don't much care about him or his reasons for being a drunk.The female characters of these books (and I read and didn't like The Bat, too) are stereotypes.
They're all hookers, or junkies, or in love with the "hero," or ugly and butch, like the description of the "main" female character in Cockroaches.
Their descriptions are based solely on how they look and how Hole feels about them, without any descriptions of who they are as people.
They're just foils for the MC to react to.Not cool.So, yeah, I'm done with this series.
You all enjoy, but I quit.***********************************Yeah, I'm finished with this series.
A traditional sort of story, although the setting in Bangkok was exotic. Not that the exotic setting had any real impact on the story. Can't say I was mightily interested in the tale nor the characters. Violence was kept at a medium level so that was alright. I wonder when Nesbo turned ultra violent in his Harry Hole stories as I really could not take his story of The Snow Man (Harry Hole #7) because of extreme kinky cruelty. Perhaps I should try some more early Harry Hole books in my search for in-between detectives.
This is the second book in the Harry Hole series. Cockroaches is a notch up from "The Bat" from the standpoint of intrigue and depth. I shall carry on with the Harry Hole adventures and see where the next story takes him.
I want to watch the movie The Snowman based on one of the books in the Harry Hole series by Jo Nesbo.
:) In Book one, The Bat, Norwegian Police Inspector Harry Hole was sent to Sydney, Australia to investigate the murder of a Norwegian woman.
In this second book in the series, once again Harry is sent to look into a suspicious death in a foreign country.
Now that I've read the second book in the series, Harry is beginning to grow on me.
By the time I get to book 7, I'm going to have a much better opinion of the flawed cop.I'm enjoying this series.
Anyone who has been following Harry Hole knows they've been published in English out of sequence and everyone has been griping about it.
So while my friends (and professional critics, too) liked this second in the series, I thought it was the best I've read thus far.
Honing or not, I loved reading it therefore the five stars.
The reviews for "Cockroaches" written by James Thane, Harry and Tony.
They all write excellent reviews so they're worth the time spent to read them.
I can now admit that I love Harry Hole and everything about him.
The second installment to the Det. Harry Hole series, Cockroaches was an interesting read.
Hole navigates the criminal underworld (that isn't so under...worldish) of Thailand all while battling his own personal demons in an effort to find the killer from a host of various suspects.Like Nesbo's other novels in this series, Cockroaches is a fast read and police procedural.
I wanted more.Although I wasn't too thrilled with Cockroaches because of it's lack of...
thrills, it was still a worthwhile read.
It just reminds me that books are like cockroaches, for every good one you read, there's ten maybe not so good ones.
I think that what makes Harry such a great character, caring and tenacious in his work is what is his downfall on a personal level.
Can you live a life without being effected by what happens to you, I don't think so, certainly Harry cannot and sadly his way of dealing with the ghosts is deadly.A different book than the first, as if Bangkok is quite different than Sydney, which is more than true.
And I've noticed that for Nesbo, the city we are in, is also a character in his book.
His Bangkok is chaotic, sad, deadly and beautiful at the same time.
summer readathon 16country NORWAYΔεύτερη περιπέτεια του Χάρι κ φαίνεται. Θέλει ακόμα πλάσιμο ο χαρακτήρας κ η ιστορία. Καλό αλλά τα επόμενα ακόμα καλλίτερα (χιονάνθρωπος, κοκκινολαίμης κλπ). Έχω ακόμα 4-5 στην άκρη να μου κρατάνε συντροφιά! Χάρι θα σε ξαναδώ σύντομα ;)
Cockroaches is one of the earlier Harry Hole books that I had, apparently, neglected to read.
It was pretty typical of Jo Nesbo's of the brilliant, alcoholic Norwegian detective whose last I choose to pronounce with two syllables (hol a) as not doing so creates an image that I prefer not to encounter.Harry is sent off to Thailand to investigate the death and apparent murder of the Norwegian ambassador to that country.
The book is pretty typical of Jo Nesbo's Harry Hole stories so, if you have read and enjoyed them, you will almost certainly enjoy this one.
Θέλει να βρει και να τιμωρήσει τον άνθρωπο που της έκανε κακό, αλλά για να γίνει αυτό θα πρέπει να μείνει ξεμέθυστος για λίγο παραπάνω.
Φυσικά με όσο το δυνατόν λιγότερες διαρροές λεπτομερειών στον τύπο.Το βιβλίο είναι το δεύτερο κατά σειρά στις περιπέτειες του Χόλε, αλλά και στο συγγραφικό έργο του Nesbo.
Η χώρα γενικά είναι γνωστή για το σεξοτουρισμό της, που ήταν εμφανής τόσο όταν γράφτηκε το βιβλίο, όσο ακόμη και τώρα.
Στοιχεία από το πρώτο βιβλίο Η νυχτερίδα είναι εμφανή και δεν εξηγούνται λεπτομερώς, κάτι που θα ήταν πλεονασμός για το συγγραφέα.
This time Harry Hole is in Thailand.
In Harry’s first run-out in the Jo Nesbo series he was in Australia battling a crazed serial killer who had murdered a Norwegian citizen.
Let’s see how Harry goes about doing good for his country.
Harry goes around trying to piece together the jigsaw of the ambassador’s life and what the hell he was up to on the day of his death plus getting the obligatory beating on the way.
Admittedly the ending is a bit wordy and convoluted.
A little too convoluted for me.
The Norwegian government has requested that detective Harry Hole fly to Thailand to work on the case with the Thai police.
But Harry sobers up, and looks deeply into the dealings of a group of corrupt Norwegian expats.
Traffic is out of control as drivers muscle their way through congested roads like a swarm of insects.Harry found cockroaches in his room.
That meant they were everywhere." It seemed that society's "cockroaches" were also everywhere in the corrupt underworld.Cockroaches is the second Harry Hole novel.
His first two books, The Bat and Cockroaches, were translated later, and give the reader some of the back story of the damaged detective.
Ο Γενς Μπρέκε, χρηματιστής, είναι φίλος της οικογένειας ή και κάτι παραπάνω για τη μάνα και την έφηβη κόρη της, Ρούνα; Ο πρέσβης, λάτρης των ιπποδρομιών, χρωστούσε λεφτά στους τοκογλύφους της Μπανγκόκ; Ποιος είναι ο ρόλος του μυστηριώδους, βετεράνου πολέμων, Ίβαρ Λέκεν, είναι σύμμαχος ή εχθρός; Γιατί κανείς δεν μπορεί να δει τον πλούσιο επενδυτή, Ούβε Κλίπρα; Βάζοντας το μαχαίρι στο κόκκαλο, θα καταφέρει ο Χόλε να αποκαλύψει το δολοφόνο χωρίς να εκτεθεί η Νορβηγική κυβέρνηση; (view spoiler)[Ο Χάρι τα καταφέρνει.
Ο Γενς Μπρέκε έφαγε πατέρα και κόρη για να παντρευτεί την ετοιμοθάνατη Χίλντε για τη τεράστια νορβηγική περιουσία του άντρα της.
