https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11224273-the-borgias
Book 1 "Madonna of The Seven Hills" I'm giving part one 4 stars.
It covered Lucrezia's childhood, first marriage to Giovanni Sforza and the birth of her bastard son.
I am glad this was released as 2 for 1 book, because Lucrezia's life cannot be told by 1 marriage.
Book 2 Light On LucreziaBook 2 gets 3 stars.
It covers Lucrezia's 2nd and 3rd marriage.These books are a great basic read to get to know The Borgias.
Even though they weren't deep, I enjoyed getting to know the basic facts and recommend this to anyone who is interested in learning about this family.
It is worth a read if you are a historical fiction lover or fan of the Borgias/time period.
However, right about the time that Alexander left the story, the book tanked.
If I had to read one more mention of Lucrezia's hair washing habits I was going to scream.
Lucrezia turned into a boring and shallow character and I could have cared less about the hardships she suffered toward the end.
So read it if you are interested, but don't be surprised if you find yourself forcing yourself through the last part of the book.
If you can find a 2-in-1 of Plaidy's, count yourself fortunate, and buy it.The story of Lucrezia Borgia (the historical account, not this novel) is chock-full of drama and unbelievable circumstances.
If you have concerns about your eyesight, perhaps you should find this book in a store first and then open it to see if you can capably read it or not.
It's not HUGE font, but it's certainly not difficult to read.
If you're interested in a fun historical read that has nothing to do with the Tudors, this might be the book for you.
These two volumes (Madonna of the Seven Hills and Light on Lucrezia) are combined in one book. It spans the fifteenth century during the reign of Pope Alexander VI (Borgia.) The second book continues after his death. The stories are told through the eyes of Lucrezia. It is a rather tragic story during a troubled time in history. It is not a happy, entertaining story, yet very well done.
Page 262, so far so good. This was a partial free sample. Will check out the book at the library.
What I enjoyed about this book (really two books in one) is that it took a sympathetic view towards Lucrezia Borgia, as a victim of her family's plotting and murderous schemes.
However, Lucrezia's passivity and saintlike forgiveness annoyed me at times, such as her mourning her brother Cesare even after (view spoiler)[he had her beloved second husband killed (hide spoiler)].
Her family was so vengeful and so dysfunctional that I had a hard time understanding why she remained so attached to them.Multiple perspectives did not serve the story well, especially since both novels are supposed to be focused on Lucrezia.
Perhaps surprisingly, she is painted in a fairly sympathetic light; given the original publication dates of these two novels, that was a divergence from the popular culture depiction of her being just as murderous and evil as her brother Cesare.The first book, Madonna of the Seven Hills, takes place from Lucrezia's birth through her childhood, marriage to Giovanni Sforza and subsequent divorce, up to the point of her second marriage, to Alfonso of Bisceglie.
The novels are very much of their time—although a very violent period in history, and featuring a family reknowned for their intriguing, promiscuity and murderous ways, by modern standards these are now fairly tame in terms of content and description.
I was surprised how much I enjoyed this book and looked forward to reading it at bedtime.
The story is written in the third person, so the characters remain at a distance, and I felt no emotional attachment to any of them.
It is not deep reading but is a historical novel and I did learn about Italy in the 1400s when it was separated into many warring states.
The first novel, “Madonna of the Seven Hills” highlights Vannozza Catanei, mistress to Roderigo Borgia, a powerful, corrupt cardinal who later becomes Pope Alexander VI.
The suggestion of the practice of celibacy for priests and popes was apparently too new to have been taken seriously.
There was an undercurrent of a suggestion that there was a carnal relationship between His Holiness and his biological daughter Lucretia.
He is an archbishop and actually murders his elder brother to force his father to release him from his vows to the church.
Again, there is the creepy feeling that brother and sister have a sexual relationship.
The sister's lovers and husbands drop like flies at the hands of father and brother and poor Lucretia rolls over and takes it on the chin.
Story of the iBorgiasThis was a comprehensive tale of this infamous family that was often a page-turner.
The myriad of names and begots was often confusing , but once getting used to this, the story was compelling enough to keep me a rapt audience.
The author had a way of keeping me engrossed in the many treacherous encounters of this historical era.
She was skilled enough in her writing to allow you to actually create sympathies for some of characters despite the shocking lawlessness of the times.
If you are a history buff you will appreciate how the author breathed life into these times.
I mostly enjoyed reading this.
The characters were mostly vivid and memorable.
I did find Lucrezia a bit irritating at times; she seemed so lacking in the ability to think about what was happening around her.
If anything, she was a pretty good study in willful ignorance, in some ways.
She knew that her father and her brother were not good people, but loved them and so chose to prioritize that over everything.
Understandable, maybe, and she had been manipulated by Cesare, in particular, from a very early age.
Still, it was enjoyable to read and an interesting portrayal.
As someone who knew nothing about the borgia's at the start of the book I found the read to be fascinating. The story started moving a little too slowly for me so I decided to give it up after the first book. (this is a 2 in 1) Someday I'll probably make an attempt at the second. It was well written but too if a story is going to hold my interest for 672 pages I need something with a little more suspense and action than the day to day dealings of crazy sociopaths.
Jean Plaidy has thrilled me for many many years.I found my first Jean Plaidy books many many years ago , while still in school.Never have I read one which was worth less than five gold stars , both for literary value and the immense effort the author makes to provide an authentic historical framework for the story line.
Most readers of historical novels may have touched on the history of the Borgia family... along with the Papal intrigues present during that time period. I suggest this is an excellent book and seemingly well researched. Very well constructed in that it takes you through the colorful and brutal life of Lucretia, in particular.
I am reluctantly giving it 4 stars but would have preferred if there was an option for 3 1/2. Longer than necessary, and at times reads more as a history book rather than historical fiction. Overall I liked it and particularly the depiction of Lucrezia as more of an 'innocent victim' than the usual painting of her as a manipulative and incestuous monster.
An adventure in historyThose who enjoy performance automobiles say: it not the destination, but road trip. This set of 2 novels leads to a known end, but the reading was most enjoyable! The excellent writing took me to the times and places, and allowed some understanding of the characters. I highly recommend Jean Plaidy's writing on the Borgias!
Just did not want this book to end !Historical novels are always a delightful way to learn history for me . The entitlement of the rich and powerful of those days appears interestingly close to what occurs in the USA today .
I have abandoned this book. I knew of the history of the Borgias and thought it might be interesting to read more but this is not an enjoyable or challenging book to read. It's pretty "creepy" to be honest.
Really I rate it 4 1/2 starsThis author I read before but I don't recall reading The Borgias:: Two novels in One Volume. The story was very well told , a historical novel. A pope, his children, his mistresses, deceit, murders.
We all know the story of the first crime family The Borgias, but do you know Lucrezia's story? Even though this is a dated book it is well written, an easy ready which still makes this book current today.
Murder,murder most foul.Wow,a great story.filled page, to page with historical and imagined life stories of the Borgias . What a remarkable family.
Mostly I remember about this book is endless description of Lucretia long blond hair
Having such a hard time reading this that I'm not going to finish it. Too much violence and icky stuff.
SurprisingI found myself fascinated by this book. It is So different than the show that has been on. But I couldn't put it down. It was a surprisingly enjoyable book.
I have read better Plaidy novels. I found the first novel here to be satisfactory but the second to be a waste of time.
I loved this book about the Borgia dynasty!
Her father, Pope Alexander, was a strong rock in her life, as was her brother Ceasare.
Lucrezia seemed to have an obsession for the love of her father and brother, though no scene in this novel showed her being intimate with her brother.
He does escape with his life, but Lucrezia's lover, a chamberlain named Pedro, was killed, as was her second husband, Alfonso of Bisceglie.
Her husband only wants her to provide an heir for the Ferrara family and does not love or care for her at all.
Even though I have not finished this set yet, I am to quote Jean Plaidy's attitude which I think is so important if you are going tyo be a student of the Renaissance in any form or shape.
As time goes on, Lucrezia is less likely to think highly of obedience to her brother and her father, since knowing what they can and will do, has hurt her very badly.
I did enjoy this book but it began to drag slightly towards the end.
I enjoyed the story of Lucrezia Borgia.
Jean Plaidy developed the characters really well.
The love Lucrezia bore him was incomparable to any other.
Lucrezia would have forgiven her brother and her father absolutely any crime.
Her character was a very loving and caring one.
There are lots of affairs and romances in the book.
Sanchia was perhaps more dangerous than Guilia but they both share similar personalities.The book could have been better if it had included more information about the papacy and roman life but overall, a good read.
By the time she realized what was really going on she knew that she was too far gone to do much else than keep loving her family and hope for the best.I'm not sure what I thought of this second book on Lucrezia Borgia.
I couldn't help but think I would have liked the book a whole lot better if there had been a little more happy endings than cold hard facts.
Or maybe I was just looking for something happy to happen for poor Lucrezia.Over all it wasn't bad, and maybe in time I'll find that I really liked it, but for now the best I can give it is 3 stars.
There is so much to their history and their individual stories, and this was a fantastic opportunity to follow them all simultaneously through their twisted lives and how it affected the entire era of the Roderigo Borgia papacy.
It’s history, I knew how it was going to end, but I felt like I knew these people in the end, and their story is tragic.
There is some much going on, but so worth spending the time on.
If you have even a passing interest in the Borgia reign, and don’t want to pour through another dry history book, this is the way to go.
