https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153136.The_Cake_Bible
I think this woman might be mad. My man, my ma and I spent an entire day constructing her white lilac nostalgia cake, which I -- sucker! -- chose for its name. It involves a mouselline. What is a mouselline? Mainly: delicious varieties of fat. As we are baking all of the nuptial cakes our own mad selves we needed, of course, the cake bible. The recipes involve asteriks and multiple sidebars and accompanying essays and pronunciation keys and ingredients for which one must hunt, gather, peck, beg, invent, time-travel, steal. Anyway. It's great/terrible buttery fun/labor.
Everything in this recipe works the first time you try it.
Well, except if you try to make spun sugar or hard caramel on a rainy day, but she does say not to do that.
Each recipe ends with a section explaining why the recipe is put together the way it is, and the explanations are thorough enough that you could modify recipes successfully if you were feeling brave.
I don't know why you'd need to, though, as there are SO MANY cake & decorating options detailed here, from the very basic (poundcake & variations) to instructions for serious, professional-level wedding cake techniques.You will impress your friends, but you may also never enjoy grocery store cake again once you've made good cake.
This is a fantastic book on cake baking, covering almost every subject you can think of in the realm.
(Ok, except high altitude baking.
For a notable exception, check out  Purdy's  Pie in the Sky Successful Baking at High Altitudes.)Anyway, the point is that this is a lovely book for those passionate about cakes and their construction.
Susan and I made our wedding cake (essentially) from this book.Some readers have complained that her recipes are complicated, difficult, or don't work.
I have never had one of Rose's recipes not work (modulo altitude issues).
This book is the reason I am a better baker. I think that this book was enough; frankly, RLB could've stopped here. The other "Bible" books she's written are not, in my opinion, remotely equal to this one for depth, breadth, or detail. Years later, I still find new things to love.Is it complicated? Yes. I have, however, read it cover to cover more than once, and appreciate the complexity and detail, because they are in service of the greater goal of truly understanding cake baking and execution. Vital for anyone interested in making sweets.
On it, the host was happily devouring a slice of one of the cakes Rose Levy Berenbaum had baked and raving how this was the best cake book ever.
At that time, I enjoyed baking but without a box mix the cakes were dry, kind of gritty and required a lot of time with separating the eggs, folding in etc.
In the book, she explains some of the chemistry to understand the why of it but better than that was the product created.
I definitely recommend this book for new bakers and have yet to find a better baking book.
Baking is organic chemistry.
The Cake Bible teaches organic chemistry (unintentionally) and then you get to eat the results.
Can't do that in a chemistry lab.
The Cake Bible is not a book for folks who want only simple, easy-to-follow recipes.
It's a book for learning about the processes and chemistry involved with baking.
After studying The Cake Bible, you will have a solid understanding of how ingredients combine to make different textures and flavors.
The Cake Bible teaches you to do not to follow.
It teaches you to create your own cakes.
How cool is that??!!I love Rose.
I really really love Rose.
I really really love Rose.
It's the most wonderful time of the year! For me, Christmas is all about getting blacked out on champagne-and-brandy cocktails. And this year, I will use a buche de noel to soak up some of that booze. Meringue mushrooms make the Baby Jesus laugh and smile! This book contains a special section of photos of delightfully hideous extra fancy cakes from the eighties. Still, it stands alone in precision. Enjoy!
As a frequent baker, I had high hopes for this book. But I used Beranbaum's go-to buttercream on a wedding cake - and the cake had to be cut early because it could not withstand being in a well-lit (but not super-hot) room for even a couple hours. So disappointed.
The best cake book I've ever read. It explains the whys.
Believe it or not, there are people, like my friend Heather, who think that dedicating 4 hours to making the perfect cupcake is time well spent.
Nerdy analysts like this book.
I dislike many of the frosting recipes, but that's a matter of personal preference and it's mostly irrelevant, because I usually serve cake simply frosted with a glaze or ganache or topped with whipped cream.
I keep this book for the times when I want to bake a delicious made-from-scratch cake.
The resulting cakes always please me and the people I serve them to; and definitely, these cakes taste way superior to boxed mixes.
Yes, each cake comes with a helpful story and she compares and contrasts the recipes so you understand how basic recipes can be tweaked to generate different results.
For example, I wanted to make cupcakes instead of a layer cake, but there was only was passing reference inside of one cake recipe about how to convert it into cupcakes.
I wanted a diatribe on how to convert recipes to fit different pans, etc.
I wanted to know which recipes work best as cupcakes or other forms.
I feel like I need more cake cookbooks to really understand what I'm doing.
The recipe of the cake I'm making for Lily's birthday is out of this book.
I would love to try some of the more complicated cakes in here, but am a bit intimidated- right now I"m sticking to the butter cakes in the front.
Very exact recipes with volume and weight measurements.
My biggest complaint is probably the lack of pictures, but I think it makes up for it in sheer information.
Huge book and it's just packed with tips and information.
If all goes well with Lily's cake, I'll probably try somethign else as these cakes all sound delicious.
For example, I know from experience that you don't actually need to measure the temperature of the sugar syrup when making Italian meringue - if you heat the syrup just to a rolling boil, and no further, it's the right temperature.I wouldn't quibble with Rose about this, except that her emphasis on precision might lead an amateur baker picking up this book to think that only you can only get good results if you make yourself crazy with the details.
Truthfully, most people can make a decent, delicious cake simply by exercising ordinary caution in measuring, getting a decent oven thermometer, and using high quality ingredients.
They are down home cakes, cakes you would find at bake sales on a church lawn.
They are meant to be informal although the author does throw in a few fancier cakes with spun sugar cages and Christmas yule logs, but for the most part these recipes are for the everyday baker.
I was not impressed with several recipes.
However, the recipes did turn out fine when directions are followed.
Make sure to read all * and footnotes or you will miss vital information.
Berenbaum also gives the scientific reasons behind the how-to and why's of baking.
I love this book on so many levels that it would be impossible to list them all here.
It has been my "go-to" manual for inspiration and for recipes for many years.
It is not for the beginning baker, more for the intermediate to advanced level baker/decorator.The recipe comments are very specific about the type of crumb to expect and many are dense, moist cakes that will stand up to the weight of formal decorating.
All are quite delicious.I have been inspired to create new recipes of my own using this book as a springboard.
I just can't look through it without getting all creative!
Okay, I confess, I didn't believe my friend at first when he said this book was definitely the bible of cakes.
But I was so wrong!
This book is the bible of cakes!!!!
It is absolutely amazing and is the first book I would recommend to anyone who wants to bake a cake.
It has just about every cake recipe you'll ever need with tips and suggestions on how to make/bake and store each recipe.
If you have absolutely no idea how to assemble or decorate a cake, this book will definitely tell everything you need to know.
This cookbook made a leap for me to making fancy cakes and understanding why things might not always turn out--she demystifies alot about cake baking,a nd while i have only made a dozen things from here, it astonishes me as a cookbook because everything works--my favorite ganache recipe is from here.
I stole this book. I did, I confess. I worked somewhere where they let us borrow books and then I stopped working there and I just never returned the book. It's kind of like a science book anyway.
I learned everything you could want to know about cake. Plus how to make a rose out of Tootsie roll. I would love to take a class with this woman. My all time favorite baking book.
One of the best resource cookbooks in the field. Not too sweet. Recipes well researched. A remarkable book.
My review bout this?! I'm hungry as a bear babe
This book really merits its title. It is a wonderful compendium of recipes and resources. Levy-Beranbaum is a Cornell-trained baker with extensive experience. Her techniques are different--but she wrote a master's thesis about sifting flour. I've made a number of recipes from this book, and all have been successful. I appreciate her explication of techniques and cooking tools. Do you bake cakes? Go get yourself a copy.
A classic back when I first started baking, I would make her coffee cake again and again. Now that I’m older with more resources available, I find myself going back to her book as reference. Excellent cookbook tho I’m not sure a beginner like me back then would be able to do a lot of the recipe. In any case, I applaud those beginner who can follow her recipe because Rose is like a chemist in her explanation of the recipe but her cakes are pure magic.
The only cake cookbook I use. I've been using it for years. Beranbaum literally goes into the science of baking a cake, why certain ingredients are used, what to purchase, how to build a cake, how to prep ingredients, and the aging of ingredients. I haven't had a cake complaint since I started using this book.
good recipes
Hi
this recipe book is perfect for those who have a joy of baking cakes and confections. Well written, easy to follow, and very informative.
Fabulous resource to have in the kitchen.
Just try the fabulous chocolate cake with only 3 ingredients, and it delish!
If you love cake you need to own this book.
