https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510569.The_Greek_Myths
The collection is brilliant in its scope and breadth and a magisterial one.The stories follow a logical pattern starting right from the creation myths and proceeding to the stories of the Titans.
This would undoubtedly be one reason why these books figure in the list of the best mythological references of all times.Let's imagine the myths to be a beehive dripping with sweet and intoxicating nectar.
Greek myths are fantastic material for stories : violence, jealousy, greed, sex and high octane action abound in them but Graves discards them all for academic interest.
She also includes stories that Graves leaves out.Graves seems to lean heavily on saga, which I appreciated since I recently read the Iliad and the Odyssey.
He also fills in the gaps those two poems leave, letting us know how the Trojan War began and what happened to some of the key players such as Achilles, who is alive in the Iliad, but already dead in the Odyssey.I do not know if Robert Graves has a certain predilection towards the salacious (his books, I, Claudius and Claudius the God were pretty lewd) or if he is simply preserving a faithful translation of the stories.
Read with the kids. My kids now think Greeks are all randy drinkers prone to murder (in all its forms) and incest, and the Gods are worse. Now, onto The Greek Myths II. I'll add a more detailed review once we finish the second part.__________________- Robert Farwell / Edward Jones library / Mesa, AZ 2014
One that has it all neatly wrapped in a bow and I genuinely cannot believe it took me so long to find this!I enjoyed the collection of these myths, some were familiar, some were really unfamiliar - which was brilliant, because though I really love the familiar myths, it was really good to read those that were unfamiliar and new to me.
I will read Volume 2 one day, which means I liked this quite well - I just found it really, really tough in places!
I didn't know that  The Greek Myths  was, not only a book about the myths AND their variations, but also a commentary by Robert Graves, explaining from where they come from, what they are really, historically, about.
It was really interesting, but quite confusing - mostly because of the variations and the names -, and quite annoying because the author clearly explains how Greek society was misogynous.
I have probably not understood it all, and I won't read the second volume soon, but I think about getting the whole version, and reading it latter, more slowly!
Its a real shame that it is called "The Greek Myths", it would be more accurate to call it "Robert Graves reports the greek myths and then theorizes about their meanings".I really wouldn't even recommend this book as literature becuase it is a rather dense read and the re-telling of the myths is dry.Don't mean to hate on Graves, but I just think his treatment of the myths will lead to their being further misunderstood.--------old reviewThis book is really weird.
A brilliant compendium of Greek mythology, drawn from all the major Classical sources and rewritten with flair by Graves. His erudite commentaries on each myth are illuminating, even if his interpretations are sometimes a bit forced. Looking forward to vol. 2.
Un excelente libro de referencia , Robert Graves toma cada personaje mitológico y cuenta la leyenda individual de cada uno, cada deidad, cada héroe , su historia y sus variaciones contadas según la época y la tribu que le rindiera culto , además de una explicación detallada del por qué de la leyenda, como cada mito describía no sólo el imaginario social si no también político e histórico, la caída de un héroe muchas veces representaba la caída del pueblo que lo veneraba, la perdida de dones como el control de los vientos de las diosas matriarcales como una derrota ante el patriarcado, las peleas entre los dioses narraban en realidad guerras entre clanes , etc.
The ancient cultures and todays culture have more similarities than you could ever imagine. it's kind of shocking. it's a very informative and amusing book. I hope to read the second volume soon. PS. the footnotes were a bit excessive to me but i guess if someone is trying to actually do a profound research they could be very helpful.
He had a single great theme, first revealed in his book The White Goddess, which he was determined to highlight again and again out of every facet of the vast source material.According to Graves, virtually every story in Greek myth can trace its origins to when the pre-Hellenic system of matriarchy was usurped by a subverting patriarchy, which re-wrote all the accepted legends in order to suit the victory of the new order.
Even the term 'Hellenes' derives from Helen (of Troy), once the Moon-goddess; Athene predates her father, Zeus; Hecate is the true ruler of Tartarus, not Hades; the Olympics started as a foot-race for women competing to be moon-priestesses, and on and on.

I loved a lot of the moments in this, especially toward the beginning.
It was often hard, though, to wade through a lot of boring to get to the good parts.
My favorite toward the end was "...which is why Theseus's Athenian descendents are so absurdly small-buttocked." I think this book is worth having more as a reference work, thanks to what seems like a thorough index and the very frequent occurence of references to these stories in other writings, rather than as something to read straight through.
I will read vol.
2 one day, which means I liked this quite well.
The majority of myths presented here seem to focus on heroes rather than the gods themselves. I do enjoy the variety of sources used to bring the differing stories together and particularly the listing of those sources after each section. Robert Graves "learned" opinions after each section often left me amused. He was definitely a die-hard goddess cult person and every single thing would be tied back to this idea. His interpretation of words left much to be desired, for it seemed very careless. Beyond that the book is useful for getting reacquainted with the myths.
but seriously, this book is good if you're looking for a strong supliment to someone like Jung, who assumes that his readers have a good grasp of greek mythology and its implications on archetypal theory.
not bad, hectic in the head, a little all over the place, fascinating but frustrating.
No better source to ensnare you in the material, and he's thorough.
Read these first in my teens and still dp back into them from time to time.Masterly.
One of my many begun books, mostly read, to be used primarily as reference.Quite a good book.
I'm not sure how much of Graves's scholarship is accurate, but he crafts a wild ride.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars
Given the extent to which Greek mythology has influenced Western culture, art, and literature, I had what in hindsight were excessively high expectations of it, most of my knowledge having previously been from reading on it as a lad in the condensed versions found in encyclopedias.
In my own mind, after reading this book, it did make me appreciate even the perfection, justice, mercy, and grace of the the one true God --- so much in contrast to the weakness, foulness, cruelty, and hypocrisy of the Greek pagan pantheon.
Grateful the author didn't write a tome 3. This series was mandatory in high-school whilst preparing for the French baccalaureate. Didn't enjoy reading it at all, and has nothing to do with the translation, because I had checked the original version as well and same result: very dry, pedantic and tedious and in some instances misleading- more to be used for cross-references than actual reading material. Lacks maps and pictures - crucial elements when studying Greek mythology, or any mythology as a teenager. The author is definitely not a story teller.
This book was very interesting. It was cool to see how different religions have such different beliefs. The different tales in the book are very surprising and interesting.
It was not for me.Started with the highest of hopes, but was gravely disappointed (or sth).
Love it! I need to get myself a copy.
Si te gusta la mitología griega, éste es uno de tus libros que tiene que estar en tu estantería.
Classic Greek mythology
There were many tales here I hadn't heard before.Graves adds an additional level by trying to depict the myths as analogies for historical events, e.g. Zeus's rape/marriage of Hera as the conquering of the Goddess-worshiping island folk by the mainland.What struck me on this reading was how actually awful these myths and legends are when taken in their raw, original form.

Robert Graves may have done the most thorough job possible in collecting all the Greek Myths, all the variants and local legends pertaining to it.
As a source for raw information on the subject, this is an absolute treasure.Having said that, he had one flaw.
'The Golden Bough' was a highly influential book at the time he was writing.
Most of its premises have been largely disproven now and are mainly ignored in the academic community.
Graves explains all the myths, however, using the ideas laid out there.
This is a masterpiece, but not for its wild connections.
It is a masterpiece of research only.
