https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24408.The_Bronze_Bow
They are: - Joel, a childhood acquaintance who shares Daniel's thirst for freedom but not his bloodlust- Malthace, called Thacia by her friends, Joel's beautiful and kind twin sister- Samson, a deaf-mute foreigner rescued from a slave caravan who appoints himself Daniel's bodyguard after the later does a good deed for him- Leah, Daniel's traumatized younger sister who hasn't left the family hovel in nine years- Marcus, a young Gallic Roman soldier who seems to enjoy lording it over Daniel, and-Jesus, an itinerant preacher of unclear political allegiance, Who says the strangest things and forces Daniel to examine himself.A pebble rolls down the mountainside, and then another, and another...in three hundred years the avalanche will bury Rome itself.Content AdvisoryViolence: Slaughter is a fact of life in this setting.
Daniel (the main character) is aloof, sullen, and passionate - almost enough to become frustrating to the reader...
His character progression is gradual, sincere, and believable.Also, I was fascinated to read a story with such a unique perspective on the life of Jesus Christ.
It is told through the eyes of a young Jew who is desperately waiting for the Messiah; who is ready to fight and die for one who will lead the Jews against Rome, their conqueror.
When Jesus arrives - a supposed Messiah, but who seems to have no intention of fighting for the freedom of Israel - Daniel is faced with a vital choice in his loyalty.
I have almost unrealistically high expectations whenever I read an Elizabeth George Speare book, but each one has met and exceeded those expectations.
The magnitude of The Bronze Bow is staggering.
I can only compare the sheer importance of the story to Esther Forbes's Johnny Tremain, but this one perhaps surpasses even that classic.
Electricity pulses within the story, a raw hum of power.
I was riveted the entire time I read, the pitch-perfect narrative drawing me breathlessly toward the heartrending conclusion.
Few books in any genre can compare with The Bronze Bow, arguably the greatest work of historical fiction ever written for young readers.
Have been meaning to read this for some time; finally borrowed a copy from a friend and went to it.
To Speare's credit, most lines attributed to Christ in the book are fairly consistent with his real teachings, though she unsurprisingly emphasizes his themes of peace and love over sin and God's judgment.The character arc of Daniel is convincing if predictable at times, with enough surprises that the story still seems fresh.
His interactions with his friends and with the Romans are simplified and fairly cleaned up from real life, but this is a children's/young adult novel and I think Speare strikes a pretty good balance.
Wow. It has been a long time since I liked a Biblical fiction this much.
This is one of those books that made me forget I was reading, it was more like I was a part of the story.I loved how the author described Jesus.
Insted of trying to describe things about her appearance, He's described as someone you just feel open around.
People can tell He knows everything about them.
And wow, that ending.
It gave you all the answer you need about everything in the book without telling you everything that happened afterwards.There really wasn't anything I didn't like.
Consumed by hatred, Daniel joins the brutal raids of an outlaw band living in the hills outside his village.
Though his grandmother's death slows his plans by forcing him to move home to care for his sister, he continues his dangerous life by leading a group of boy guerrillas in spying and plotting, impatiently waiting to take revenge.In nearby Capernaum, a rabbi is teaching a different lesson.
It's written from the perspective of Daniel, a young man with a very bitter heart (his father was killed by the Romans and his mother died soon after); the other two main characters are Leah (his younger sister), and Thacia, his friend Joel's sister.
Excellent historical setting in Roman-occupied Israel; lots of details about Jewish culture and its different aspects (zealots, teachers of the law, celebrations, even dining customs) without being overwhelming.Loved discovering the significance of the title in chapter 7: God is my strong refuge,and has made my way safe.He made my feet like hind's feet, and set me secure on the heights.He trains my hands for war,so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
Having loved other books by this author, I always wanted to read this book but never did.
Then I read a post by me matey Jackie @ deathbysundoku back in October 2017.
The story follows eighteen year old Daniel bar Jamin of Israel.
I always enjoy readin’ about different perspectives and the book’s time frame with all the changes and upheaval in religion is fascinating.
I do think this be the book’s strength.I can see why it also won an award Hate not love be the message of the day.
While I think that be a worthy sentiment, I just didn’t love the execution of it.
I read this book alongside my Challenge A student for school. We both enjoyed the story and character development.
Let me explain: In stories, the main character has a "character arch." Usually they start really low, and through obstacles and sacrifices and such, they finish at the end, a changed person.
When you're reading the book, just as you can see him changing and evolving into the person you want to see and he's starting to see the things that you've been telling him the whole story, he does something completely opposite of where he's headed, turning back into the character that we started with.
The story of a young Jewish boy, living with a group of Jewish outlaws, awaiting the coming of the Savior (whom they believe will save them from political opression).
But when the boy actually meets Jesus Christ, and listens to his teachings, he battles with his faith.
He's torn between the kind of salvation Christ is offering, versus the political freedom he thought the Savior would offer.
This story is captivating in the sense that everyone thinks that if they lived in the time of Christ, and heard his teachings, that they would undoubtedly believe.
First of all, if you even enjoyed this book the tiniest bit , do not read this review , you’ve been warned.
Not only did I have to suffer through page after page of mindlessness, I had to take tests , quizzes, and answer comprehension questions about the very book that I wished to light on fire and ban the human race from setting theirs eyes on , let alone read .
If you somehow enjoyed this book , you are not human.
The only good thing this book did for me was teach me how to persevere through trials.
In the scriptures we only see the stories of those who push their way to the front of the crowd, not those in the back left wanting a glimpse of the prophet.Faced with the options of giving up on everything that has made his existence important to find healing in peace or continuing on the path his life has lead him, Daniel struggles to accept the message that the Romans deserve love and that maybe hate isn't a savior.
The realization that Christ may be the chosen Messiah and maybe his message of love is the salvation for which he has been waiting comes gradually to Daniel.
Then I finally realized that he truly had these hateful, spiteful feelings and desires for vengeance that blinded him and were really out of control.
I'm glad I finally realized how serious his vow was before the end of the book, because it made the ending that much sweeter when he was able to let it all go and allow Christ to show him love.
**Now that I'm writing this, I realize I have to give a shout out to my friend Rob McMillan who, knowing my profession, has strongly recommended that I read the book "Bonds That Make Us Free: Healing Our Relationships,Coming to Ourselves" by C.
Published in 1961, two years after Ben-Hur's cinematic debut, The Bronze Bow tells the story of a Jew, Daniel bar Jamin, who is filled with anger at what the Romans have done to his family.
The book deserves its award: beautiful crafted characters (both the Jews and the Romans are portrayed sympathetically), a stirring character arc, a well-developed side-romanced, characters with disabilities and other struggles, and a very well-researched setting.
Now I need to go read Elizabeth George Speare's other books...
There is one black character in this book.
As soon as he is freed, he makes another character his master, because apparently black people cannot survive without being subjugated.The plot is ridiculously drawn-out and contrived: Daniel spends like 90% of the book preparing a rebellion, and we get boring details and scenes of planning and scheming.
But in the ending it fails miserably, and in like the last three pages Jesus steps in, wiggles his fingers, and POOF!
Yay for Jesus-ex-machina!
Easy miracles make boring and abrupt stories - and yet this story was published?...and also won a Newberry???
Thought for sure I had added this to goodreads...anyway I have read this three time because I love it so much!
I think I read it just for the ending!
The ending I just feel so, its hard to explain!
But then the final ending when he turns to Christ ♥ and does that right thing, I love that part...oh and this quote, something they had Jesus say to Daniel when he is struggling “Can’t you see, Daniel, it is hate that is the enemy?
Hate does not die with killing.
The only thing stronger than hate is love.”
I enjoyed this book because of the portrayal of the subjection of the Jewish nation to Rome.
Add to this the expectation of a deliverer or a Messiah, and the reader gets a better notion of the great demands the Jewish people made of Jesus Christ.
I was left with a better understanding of their disappointment when he didn't turn out to be the great "king" they were hoping for, and why it took such great faith and loyalty for people to follow him as the King of Heaven and Earth.
This book is a fast, easy read that anyone can enjoy.
A great story about a boy living in the time of Jesus.
Rating: PGRecommended for: Ages 8 to AdultThis book is well researched.
The times and culture are so vividly portrayed and the history is clearly real.
Her characters are so real.
Daniel has so much hate he struggles with, and he does struggle.
His temper is real.
Thacia is sweet and kind, even accepted by the timid Leah.But this book is about more than the characters and Daniel's hatred of Romans.
About getting to know Him. Loving your enemies.
Letting go of hatred.
Learning to love.It is a wonderful book, and I cannot recommend it highly enough.
Poorly conceived and written.
The ending was convenient and solved with magical powers.
The characters were one-dimensional and unbelievable, and the whole point of the book is to beat readers over the head with a moral.
On top of that, it's incredibly racist: the only black character is a mute, deaf, simpleton who makes the main character his "master." There is quite literally NOTHING good to say about this book.For a newberry-winning historical book from the 60's, try The Golden Goblet.
It's not earth-shaking, but it is entertaining, educational, and has true heart.
Good but not great. Certainly not as good as The Witch of Blackbird Pond. It is a Jesus story but interesting because the main character is a young Zealot. I haven't seen a Zealot sympathetically portrayed very often, especially in a book for kids. In the end though, the plot was too predictable.
This is one of my favorite books and I thought that today, the day before Easter, would be a good day to reread it. Speare's character development is my favorite.4/18/17: The character development is still my favorite.
another one of my favs... oh I love this book!
I LOVED this book! I really enjoy historical fiction asa whole but this was exceptional. I read a library copy but I will be ordering this for our home library as well.Although the story is itself fictional, this book made me stop and look at Jesus with fresh eyes. It was interesting to think about how the Jewish people were desperate for a savior, someone to deliver them from Roman rule. Jesus came but not as the leader they thought they needed. He was more. So much more! Read this book!!!
Set in the time of Jesus, in a small village that's been taken over by Roman rule, Daniel, a young man working as a blacksmith and caring for his agoraphobic sister, has vowed vengeance upon the oppressive Roman army.
It is a story of the internal struggle between love and fear; this conflict is worked out in all the characters: Daniel himself, his sister Leah, afraid to leave her house or invite strangers in, his friend Joel who struggles between becoming a revolutionary and pursuing his religious education.
I must say, I was very impressed with this! I can definitely tell why it won an award! I hope that a review will be coming soon!
For most of Elizabeth George Speare's books the first half is completely stupid and boring (see WITCH OF BLACKBIRD POND) but then it picks up.
Elizabeth George Speare, of all your books, this one COMPLETELY SUCKED AND WAS TERRIBLE!!!!!
Please, if you are reading this, save yourself from this terrible demise of The Bronze Bow. If you just requested it from the library because it looked good, or if you personally own it, please THROW IT OUT THE WINDOW AND LIGHT THE BOOK OF CRAP ON FIRE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Anyways, I extremely hated this book.
It was the absolute worst book i have ever read.
However, the author assumes that readers are already very familiar with the New Testament and the politics and culture of that time, so it may be difficult for children with a weaker understanding of the New Testament to understand what it means to be a Zealot, or what a Pharisee is since it is never explained in the book.
The writing is also of a higher level, so I would not recommend that children any younger than 8 attempt this book, depending on the child.
It will be important to know the child as well since this is a 100% Christian book, so it would not be wise to recommend it to any children of non-Christian faith without knowing them well.
I discovered this Newberry Award winner when I was in middle school, and absolutely loved it.
Loved it every bit as much now as I did then!
The book is set in New Testament times, and follows Daniel, a young Jewish man who has a deep and bitter hatred of the Romans.
As Daniel's story unfolds, you come to understand the cause of his hatred.
Is this the man who will finally lead the fight to rid Israel of the Romans once and for all?
Daniel struggles to understand the teachings of the man who will eventually profoundly change his life.
