https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1516078.The_Raven
As a Native Texan and history buff, I feel great shame that it has taken me this long to get around to reading it.
It's a wonderful read, definitely not your grandma's boring history/biography tome.
The colorful (to say the least) life of Houston paired with James' elegant and entertaining writing style results in a smooth and enjoyable read with plenty of 'makes you go hmmmmm' moments.
What a character Houston was.
This book made me pine for the days when politicians were smart and entertaining and principled and full of charisma.
Who will be our next Sam Houston?
He said of him "you are a mercurial man John"!
That is how I have to describe" Sam Houston" the one time president of the republic of Texas.
His 'country' was ruled by a president who always was drunk or appeared to be drunk.
There were no adequate laws in the country for lawyers to use in support of their arguments.
A funny exchange occured between a judge and a lawyer in one of the cases resulting in the lawyer prouncing that his 'dirk' was the law he relied on to support his arguments.
These and many more were the chaos in Sam Houston's country.
However, with less than twenty pages left to run, I consider it close enough that I can judge the book, since I already know the ending (an advantage of the biographies of dead men).James gave me a new appreciation of the complexity of Sam Houston, and also an appreciation of the baroque complexity of the southern writer of a given time, such as Faulkner or Foote.
I really struggled with this book. Sam Houston's life is an interesting story but I didn't like the writing style (inconsistent and textbooky). Also, I wasn't in the mood for another tale about someone heroically conquering land that wasn't his.
This was a hard read, but Sam Houston was a larger than life. His achievements will never be attained by any other politician in the United States.
James is an Oklahoma treasure for the ages. Houston was a fascinating character and since this biography is by Marquis James, I know I got the accurate and well researched version.
While I have never been one for dense history reading, The Raven is fascinating as it tells the moving, dedicated, and occasionally humorous life of one of Texas' greatest leaders.
Sam Houston comes across in the book as an egotistical asshole whose sole regard is his own glory and reputation.
The author spends great detail painting Sam Houston as the dashing bachelor very popular and very accomplished amongst the daughter's of the elite and upper-class, then casually glosses over the devestation these dalliances leave behind on a 16yr old girl in these circumstances at this time.
But it's going to be hard for me now to separate the great man that Sam Houston probably was from the pitiful egotist portrayed by this sycophant.
Fascinating.
Almost science fiction.
A difficult read both because of the old writing style, (1920's), and because the social conventions of America circa mid '80's were very different.
Honor, loosely defined, was the great virtue of the time and resulted in frequent deadly duels, but romantic notions were so out of our experience as to be very difficult to imagine.
The history described is very detailed and the end of the story deals very well with the start of our great civil war.
All in all, a must read about an individual who most defined the generation prior to civil war.
After powering through The Raven, I pride myself on knowing infinitely more about an incredibly intriguing man and a pivotal and heralded time in Texas and US history. That said it is an old book with arduous language and a challenging writing style. I suspect it won the Pulitzer in a time when Marquis James' pen was more in vogue. It is impossible not to recommend this literary treasure, but I must say I found the text difficult to follow at times.
Sam Houston was a man of wisdom, intelligence, honor and courage. His influence was essential to the beginnings of Texas as part of Mexico, as an independent nation, and as a state. He was appalled when the state's leaders voted to join the Confederacy, and he resigned his office in protest. His Indian name was Raven, though he had no Indian blood. He was respected by everyone, even his political opponents.
A fine biography of Sam Huston with new, to me, facts and events.After Sam shepherded the new Texas to a stable (more or less) state by using strategic actions versus simple minded tactical actions by numerous Texas opportunists and the text began to explore festivities I quio reading. (My wife persisted to the end.)
This was a fantastic biography of a fascinating man. Marquis James is a good writer and definitely put his personality in the writing, but Sam Houston was indeed the star of the book.Houston had so many different phases in his life, and each phase was lived to the fullest. There was never a dull moment in this book.
One thing this book gets right is it makes you like Sam Houston. A lot.The book was dense, sometimes to the point of opacity, and it took substantial patience to get through. It was worth it. The understanding this book imparts of Houston and his world is astonishing.Every single Pulitzer Prize winning book I have ever read has been great.
Compelling and engaging narrative of a man and history I knew little about. Who knew the Alamo was such a doomed venture from the start? James' biography is fair and balanced (and only reveals its contemporary prejudices in the brief discussion of slavery and the tensions leading up to the Civil War). A thrilling adventure.
A great biography for which the author won the Pulitzer Prize.A solid presentation of a man of great talents and great contradictions. If you pick it up again after time it maintains its strength and still dazzles just like the first read.
I'll admit, I'm letting myself be swayed by the presentation. I'm tempted to consider this biography of Sam Huston a very strong '3', but this particular edition is especially classy with a sturdy slipcase, and very nice paper.
This is a great biography of Sam Houston. He was a powerful general, a determined politician, and yet, a flawed man. You will come away with a new understanding of the man that helped protect and support the Republic of Texas.
I really enjoyed this Biography of Sam Houston. It did a pretty good job of explaining his life and the complexities of who he was. I did not learn a whole lot I did not already know, but I did quite a bit of study of Sam Houston in college.
As a Texan and a confirmed history "nut", I had to read this book. There was so much more to learn about the man, the statesman, and the history of Texas in relation to the history of America. He is still one of my heroes, warts and all.
I fell in love with this book. The writing is not as clear as I would like - sometimes it was a little too florid to be easily followed - but the story of Sam Houston and Texas is fascinating. It made me (even more) proud to be a Texan!
Unreal. Utterly fascinating. I could not put the book down. Such an incredible account of Texas and national history, and the personalities that shaped (and deformed) it.
A must read for those that are interested in the history of Texas.
Loved finding out more about Sam Houston. Very interesting man.
The writing style reflects the period. Which I did not mind at all. Loved this book, and will read it again.
Good book, exciting read and quite an eye opener into the life and personality of Sam Houston. Few surprises along the way, too!!
Really, I had no idea! Glad I know now.
This is a well written book. Glad to have read it since I've moved to Texas and he is an important figure in the history of Texas. Goes with some other Texas themed books
Interesting and comprehensive look into an amazing man. Must read for all Texans (and probably folks from Tennessee as well!).
In my opinion, the tedious writing got in the way of a great story.
