https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32433.The_Key_to_Midnight
It was first published in 1975 under one of his more popular pen names, Leigh Nichols.Koontz-Alert Checklist (Every Dean Koontz book has at least one of the following ten things.)1.
He plays a very small part, but if you've ever read a Dean Koontz book, you'll know that any male character who enjoys killing is a) the sexiest man alive, b) a rapist, and c) a complete ego maniac.
Everyone in the book loves Jazz, because that style of music is the only kind Koontz thinks exists in life, but for the most part, there were no Koontz-alerts.
This hardcover is numbered 88 of 550 copies and is signed signed by Dean Koontz and Paul Parks on the limitation page.
Every time, I end up reading it in a night or two."The Key to Midnight" was originally published in 1979 under the pseudonym, Leigh Nichols.
From there, everything points toward Switzerland, and that's where the showdown happens.The Afterword really explains the tone in "The Key to Midnight." It has a very "middle of the cold war" feel to it, with bad Russians, and all manner of clandestine operations.
So well done, Alex.Anachronisms and all, "The Key to Midnight" is an awesome read.
Then again, Dean Koontz could write a story about a garlic press, and I'd probably end up reading it.
Not bad for an early Koontz read.
Nice twist with Russian doppelgangers.
Not heavy on horror, but definitely filled with mystery and questions.
Is Joanna really Lisa?
How can someone have their memory erased and altered so efficiently?
Really entertaining with strong characters.
I could completely picture the Russian body builders.
Alex Hunter is a true hero to Joanna, though Joanna is a strong woman and a hero of sorts all on her own.
She survived a kidnapping, brainwashing, memory erasure, and still managed to make a name of herself in a country she was not native in.
I always enjoy the shortness of D.
K.'s chapters; it's something that always keeps me going.It was easy to get through but nothing special.
I enjoyed the story even if it was not my cup of tea.One thing bothered me quite a bit: it struggled to not create an instant love, but I had the feeling of just this.
When she finds out she's probably someone else, all she can think about is Alex and what is happening with her feelings (after a day they met).
I found it very unrealistic.It kinda bothered me also that there were a lot of things in other languages not translated.
The book is cringe worthy.Seriously, there were passages when I was genuinely embarrassed for Koontz
In this book, Dean pretends to be a woman and writes a romantic mystery. I thought it was intriguing but personally prefer The House of Thunder which is a variation on a similar theme and also written by that same fake woman named Leigh Nichols.The Key to Midnight features some intense scenes and interesting twists.
https://tanayahczyta.wordpress.com/20...
Another of his older works released in 1979 as Leigh Nichols, this is arguably the start of his books with convoluted plots that still work in the end, new locations and deeper characters. Definitely more thriller than anything to me, it's a good read and hints at what is to come from Koontz.
They work together to break through her false memories and discover the reason behind the conspiracy.A favorite topic in Koontz novels, some kind of form or other of memory modification also appears in “Night Chills”, “Strangers”, “False Memory” and “The House of Thunder”.
Point of view changes for each chapter, switching back and forth between Alex and Joanna/Lisa, though sometimes Koontz forgets through whose eyes he’s telling the story and adds an inner dialogue of the other character.Halfway through the book, we’re pulled even deeper into the conspiracy by reading chapters about the conspirators themselves.
After all, it’s still a mystery.To me, “The Key to Midnight” is the first milestone in Koontz’s collective work.
This was the first Dean Koontz novel I have read (at least that is what my memory is telling me) and this book was very disturbing.
I think what really tossed it over the edge for me was the author's "Afterword" at the end of the book and I quote:"It's a simple tale, not a substantive one, that just wants to be liked and to give you a little fun.
And perhaps I will also think on reading another of his novels if I am handed it for free like I was this one.
Joanne Rand is a singer in a Japanese Moonlight nightclub with nightmares of her past.
She meets Alex Hunter (private dectective) and they fall in love.
Alex and Joanne try to uncover these nightmares.
They discover her real name is Lisa Chelgrin, her father is a Chicago U.S. Senator Tom Chelgrin.
But why did Tom let Lisa be brainwashed and left back 10 years ago in Japan during the "Cold War"?The "Cold War" was the Eastern Bloc ("Warsaw Pac" - Russia and it's Europe communist countries) against the Western Bloc (United States and NATO allies).Book is on YouTube.com.
A thrilling book about a woman, Joanna Rand, who had terrible nightmares of a man with a claw hand.
When Alex Hunter arrives in Kyoto, Japan, he instantly recognizes Joanna as a missing girl from twelve years previously.
The two are set on a path of discovery to find the source of her chilling nightmares.
As well as the reason why she was chosen to be implanted in a new life.The book takes many unexpected twists and turns which leave the reader constantly wanting to know more what is going to happen to the characters.
This was a great example of the diversity with which Dean Koontz can write books.
I don't remember this one terribly well. One of Koontz's earlier ones, I think. Not bad but not his best. Of course, his best is really really good.
Enjoyed it once again. But have had so little time to read it took away from the experience. I like to dive in and only come up for air a couple times.
This book is a good cold war era book
It took me awhile to get into the book. turned out to be a great story. Good old style writing from Dean Koontz.I have continued to read this book as I'm know enjoying it. I'm glad I did not give up on itI'm having a hard time getting into this book. I'm not sure if it's the book or that my mind just keeps wandering because I have some bad things going on in my life right now. Will give the books a few more chapters and see what happens.
fantastic book, for the year it was written, really held it's own in today's world. I feel this could happen then, now and in the future.
I think it partly has to do with the fact that I exclusively read Koontz for so long that now I feel the need to make up for lost time with other authors; Koontz will always be my favorite, his story-telling and humor are unmatched, so I savor these last few unspoiled works of his.
It wasn't perfect, but it was a very good offbeat romance/suspense story.
It's reminiscent of Lightning, except there's no time travel involved here, just brainwashing.
All in all, it's a fun read.
I will read it again in the future.
This is an early Koontz title (originally written back in 1979 - this is a partial rewrite from 1996).
It's your TV movie of the week that you loved as a kid - a woman with a shadowy past meets an attractive male investigator, and together they try to find the key to midnight - to understand her dreams, where the man with steel fingers fills a hypodermic syringe...It's a nice, short book with several little twists and typical Koontz characters.
Recommended for Koontz fans - if you want to get into him I suggest books such as Dragon Tears or Dark Rivers of the Heart.
I'm not sure how so many people seemed to love this book.
I found it dated, irritating, and it left me just not caring at many points.
In 1979, I'm sure all the brainwashing was viewed the "scary future" for government intrigue and sabotage.
Now, there are far scarier things people are finding ways to do to each other.
I do, however, feel like I learned things about Japan & Japanese culture I never would have known otherwise.
I hope those items are at least real so I dont' feel like it was a waste of time to listen to this.
So far it's Ok. But it;s the first book in a while where I've actually thought about skipping to the end. It starts out really slow. There is a lot of detail about Japan as the story takes place there. It's a quick and dirty read, and a pretty flimsy story. But it's keeping me engaged--which is nice. And now its finished. Nice and quick denoument in the final two chapters. Definitely one of hiw earlier writings--as I saw some of the same elements I just read in Lightning. Pretty lame excuse for a book though.
I wasn't sure whether to give this book 3 stars or 4, it was a very good book with great character development and a good storyline, I've decided to give it a 3 and a half star. I like how in this book Koontz changes the setting of where it takes place, most of his books take place in California, but this book takes place in Japan.
Another early Koontz book with the potential to give you chills. Interesting to see how early Dean uses the now familiar circle of names that crop up in his latest books.
opinião aqui :)
Didn't really enjoy this, conspiracy/mystery and not much horror. I just felt that he could have gone elsewhere with this story to make for a better ending.
Each time she awakens, she feels violated, used—and terrified.Alex Hunter knows that Joanna is not who she thinks she is, because he has seen her before—in photographs of a senator’s daughter who disappeared twelve years ago.
All he really did was take away from the main story.The Bad: Aside from the distractions in descriptions, Mr. Koontz didn’t really build any supporting characters.
As I said above, I believe I read one of the later versions of the book.
I don’t think I would have liked the original version as much.
I have added the sites to the bottom of the page.Twitter: @TimYinglingFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/timyinglinga...Publisher: www.solsticepublishing.com A Family Affair sites:– Amazon: http://amzn.to/1pLTEoQ– Solstice: http://solsticepublishing.com/a-famil...
A very engaging mystery thriller, but with its ups and downs and sadly not the greatest main characters.First of all, the book didn’t thrill me throughout the first hundred pages which was mainly the case since I felt like the main characters aren’t properly introduced before the plot had fully taken off.
Naturally, they are later fleshed out more and felt more engaging to follow, but still they never really reached the point where I ever fully cared about them as people.
The romance felt pretty forced and rather cheesy, and the ending was a bit lackluster, but I would still recommend it for someone looking for an entertaining mystery thriller.
If something happens...it will be released to the media.Alex Hunter is vacationing in Japan & that's where he sees her, Lisa Chelgrin.
Alex & a shrink both try to help Joanna with her memory loss, but Lisa Chelgrin is gone & so is the memory of her original life.
Eventually they uncover a plot by the KGB to take American POW's & replace them with look-alike Soviet agents.
Senator Tom happens to be the father of Lisa Chelgrin aka Joanna Rand.
Alex was programmed by the CIA to find Johanna/Lisa.
Alex & Johanna, fearing the CIA make a record of the story just in case.
For July a reading group at Goodreads decided to read this book from Dean Knootz's early years, back when he used aliases for some of his books.
The was sold as a romantic suspense, a genre I read a lot of when I was younger.
Somehow I managed to miss this particular book, although I have read other Leigh Nichols books.
I find that the book is just as timely now, as a romantic thriller, as it was back then.
This is a theme that Dean has returned to several times, and he does it well in this book.
I'm just surprised I missed it years ago.
