https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34964905-the-sun-does-shine
I am appalled, angry, sad but also filled with admiration for this inncent man on death row for over thirty years, who managed to retain hope and love.
He had a best friend, Lester a childhood friend who never missed visits, a mother to whom he was her baby boy, always asking him when he would be coming home, and he had his faith in God. His first lawyer incompetent, fighting against a system prejudice that despite evidence to the contrary, would do anything for a conviction.
In fact, Stevenson writes the forward in this book.That the criminal justice system in this country is evident just from what we see on our televisions.
Can you imagine?Can you imagine being convicted of multiple murders you never committed and sentenced to death by electrocution?Can you imagine spending thirty years of your life in a tiny room next to the Death Room where they electrocute men and women, always wondering when the guards will show up in front of your cell to let you know the date of your own execution?Hoping, praying that the truth will come out, that you will have a chance to prove your innocence, but being told again and again that no one wants to even hear what you have to say, no one wants to believe you?
Actually, I hope it becomes like many stories I have read, because I want to know more about mass incarceration, death penalty, and prejudice against minorities.
I want to know more about Love, Hope and Truth.
5 inspirational and unforgettable stars to The Sun Does Shine!
🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 Anthony Ray Hinton was convicted of murder and spent 30 years on Death Row in Alabama.
While each day and year ticked by, Hinton never lost hope, and he was able to convince well-known attorney, Bryan Stevenson, to represent him.
Outside of prison, he spends his time advocating so that this doesn’t happen to anyone else.
Thank you to Anthony Ray Hinton, St. Martin’s Press, and Netgalley for the ARC for this inspiring book.
His trial was a sham, his court appointed lawyer couldn't have cared less, the police told him to his face they didn't care if he was innocent because "If you didn't do it some other nigger did", the prosecutor Robert McGregor, I will only say that I hope he enjoys heat because he's burning in Hell.As I said before Anthony Ray Hinton is a better person than me, because he's forgiven all the people who wronged him.
Anthony Ray Hinton was lucky, he wasn't wrongfully executed but every year at least 5 innocent people are.
I hardly blinked except to force away the tears.While the book can be summed up in just a few words – an all-white jury sends a black man to death row, where he spends 30 years – the man himself is so much more.
While all of this legal noise is as hectic as a zoo on fire, the soul of The Sun Does Shine comes from the stillness within Ray’s cell and the monotony of over 10,000 days in prison.Hinton realizes that he can use his wit and kindness to improve his environment.
He manages to start a book club with other death row inmates.
Strike that — it’s a must read for everyone.The Sun Does Shine has a foreword by Bryan Stephenson, but it is written by Anthony Ray Hinton, an inmate who was on death row in Alabama for 30 years.
And it took thirty years before he was able to convince the US Supreme Court that his first trial was unfair and hadn’t allowed him to present clearly exculpatory evidence.What makes the book worth reading is Hinton himself.
So there was no question that I would read this book, about one of the many innocent people Stevenson and his Equal Justice Initiative has fought hard to free after they have been wrongly convicted as guilty and sentenced to death.
This book is about a terrible injustice, finding a way to have hope even in a situation full of despair, and the seemingly rare occurrence of real justice prevailing after our judicial system makes a terrible mistake.
Until our justice system becomes fool-proof, which it never will be unless someone invents a real truth serum, every person should have qualms about supporting the death penalty.
Each book is a moving account of the stories behind the Black Lives Matter movement.
So when I saw that one of the Death Row inmates represented by Stevenson had written his own book I had to read it.Ray Hinton had a record and had paid his dues.
He kept up morale.Ray changed lives.
Ray knew he had what many others on Death Row had lacked: a loving family and abiding faith.Bryan Stevenson was overworked but took on Ray's case.
When Ray was finally released he had lived on Death Row longer than he had been free.
"It was nothing less than a lynching - a legal lynching - but a lynching all the same. The anger I had tried so hard to stuff down and pray away was back in full force. My only crime was being born black, or being born black in Alabama. Everywhere I looked in his court room, I saw white faces - a sea of white faces. Wood walls, wood furniture, and white faces. The court room was impressive and intimidating. I felt like an uninvited guest in a rich man's library. It's hard to explain exactly wha
It's hard to explain exactly what it feels like to be judged.
Imagine being an innocent man incarcerated on death row for thirty years.
How do you stomach the hate and racism fired at you from the beginning of your arrest and trial when the only thing they have to say you're guilty is your skin colour and socioeconomic background?
I look for purpose in losing thirty years of my life.
I try to make meaning out of something so wrong and so senseless.We all do.We have to find ways to recover after bad things happen.
In The Sun Does Shine: How I Found Life and Freedom on Death Row Anthony Ray Hinton provides a first person account of his 30 years on Death Row - An innocent man served 30 - no, that’s not a typo - years in prison for a crime he did not commit - That’s my entire life.
I didn’t know, and I couldn’t remember.” I read Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption a few years ago and it remains one of my favorite books today because it changed my perspective and challenged many of my thoughts on what I considered to be a pretty firm opinion regarding the death penalty.
Facing a system that treats “the rich and guilty better than the poor and innocent,” Hinton fought for decades to prove his innocence, encountering one setback after another, until finally, with the help of his attorney Bryan Stevenson, they were able to get the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn the original conviction and grant him a new trial, after which the local district attorney in Alabama decided to drop the charges.
Despite what Hinton went through and knowing the deeply ingrained societal struggles with racial bias in that state, Hinton still chooses to live in Alabama, in the same house that his mother worked hard her entire life in order to buy so that he would have a home to go back to.
This is an account of an innocent man who spent 30 years on a death row in Alabama. Tragedy which could have devastated most of people ... However, Mr Hinton remained sane thanks to his faith, his mother and his best friend, and because he knew he was not guilty. What happened to him is beyond words and his voice is valuable regarding the capital punishment. You can only admire Mr Hinton who, against the odds, found strength to survive.
My heart hurt for Anthony Ray Hinton, an innocent man with extraordinary patience who sat on death row in a 5x7 ft cell for 30 years.
I don’t know if I will ever be able to forget Ray’s story.
Surely, the Alabama Senate will find it in their hearts to compensate this man as a small token to right this egregious wrong?The fix was in from the start for Ray, a hard-working young black man living in racially charged Alabama.
Anthony Ray Hinton can educate them on that.
“You know, I don’t care whether you did or didn’t do it.
I recently saw an interview of Ray, who seems to have no hate in his heart or carry a grudge.
Beautifully written, I really sunk my teeth into this fascinating story of the wrongful conviction of Anthony Ray Hinton, a young black man who spent 30 years on Alabama's Death Row. His crime?
He was convicted of the robbery, kidnap and attempted murder of one man, and the brutal murder of two others in a short period of time.
This book is a tough story of a long struggle yet filled with inspiration at the same time, as Anthony finds ways to remain strong during his time on death row.
For those interested in true crime, death row stories, and wrongful imprisonment.
Being in a locked workplace and shooting someone in the head at the same time are feats of evil magic, yet Hinton is charged with this crime.
Hinton discovers after some years on death row that it’s mostly impossible to know the guilt or innocence of another man.
If he refused to believe, and wanted to break his neck trying, then he could try until the sun refused to shine; they would never let him enter.” Hinton’s response,“I don’t believe the world is not for him,” I said.
Right at the top I was angry.
I was mad at the injustice of Anthony Ray Hinton being arrested for a crime he did not commit.
Anthony said it best when he said judges traded their white robes for black.
Hopeful that evidence in his case would set him free.
No weapon found, but the police found his mother’s gun that hadn’t been used in 25 years.
The resilience that Anthony had to make the best out of an unspeakable situation is nothing but inspirational.
Was it faith or fate when civil rights attorney Bryan Stevenson picked up his case?
After completing the book in less than 3 days, I have to agree it is one of the most inspiring and well written accounts of one man’s journey through adversity that I have ever read.
The turning point of his life came when he was falsely accused of a string of murders in Jefferson County,Alabama despite having an airtight alibi for the murder in which he was convicted.
The majority of the book is A detailed account of Hinton’s life after his conviction and how he survived serving his prison sentence on Death Row. What makes the book so enjoyable is Mr. Hinton’s personality and attitude that shines through the book even through the worst of times.
Compassion was a choice."In 1985 Anthony Ray Hinton was accused of shooting a restaurant manager and of killing other tw0.
Despite the fact that he had a solid alibi, and was in fact innocent of all charges, Hinton was found guilty and sentenced to death in Holman State Prison.
With the help of his dear friend Lester Bailey and attorney Bryan Stevenson, Hinton finally was freed after spending thirty years on death row.
In discussing books with heavily charged race themes, he talks of the white and (former) KKK member that had lynched and killed a Black teen boy.
Lester Bailey (left) and Anthony Ray Hinton upon being freed from jail.
He befriended the most unlikely alleged criminals and created a supportive and caring family for himself; sadly 54 of them were executed during his incarceration.With joy and appreciation for his relentless attorney, the unwavering love and friendship of him mother and Lester, and genuine forgiveness in his heart, Anthony Ray Hinton was released in his late 50s, in 2015.This memoir was upsetting and joyful at the same time.
Sure, I’ve read other books about men who have been wrongly convicted of murder and ended up on death row.
Hinton told his story with grace, hope and forgiveness.Imagine for a minute having an ironclad alibi that no one will even bother to check out.
His mother and Lester never for a single minute doubted his innocence.
We want our lives, and our stories, and the choices we made or didn’t make to matter.” For awhile, he was able to run a book club in prison for those on death row.
As I read the names of the people currently on death row, I felt nauseous.
"There is no sadder place to be in this world than a place where there's no hope.
If you have hope, you have everything.""The sun does shine." -Anthony Ray HintonHinton’s book is about his 30 years, roughly a generation, on death row for a crime he did not commit.
It is just another example of how the criminal justice system is unfair to people of color and the poor.
Through it all Hinton had a great support system: his mother, his friend Lester, and his lawyer Bryan Stevenson who wrote the great book Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption.
It is a great story of perseverance.
[4+] A powerful book about Anthony Ray Hinton's fight for justice (with the help of Bryan Stevenson) after being wrongly imprisoned and sentenced to death. The audio book was very well done and quite gripping. An excellent book to read after Bryan Stevenson's "Just Mercy." Bryan Stevenson is an American hero and should win the Nobel Peace prize.
Would you have the capacity to forgive those who stole almost three decades of your life through hatred and ignorance?
Who knows, maybe he would have fathered the child who grew up to cure cancer or who led the world to true peace?What Mr. Hinton did was just as miraculous, he changed himself, he sought peace of mind, he sought knowledge and he brought people together in the name of hope and justice.
He also found a man brave enough to say, I believe in you and I will fight for you when Attorney Bryan Stevenson took his case.Today, Anthony Ray Hinton is a free man.
5 ☆ An inspiring story that just broke my heart..
I literally had tears streaming down my face.
This is one of the worst miscarriages of justice I’ve heard of due to the state of Alabama’s racial prejudice.
Anthony was arrested, tried and convicted for a crime he didn’t commit + sentenced to death.
In his 30 years spent on death row Anthony maintained his belief in God that he’d be exonerated + fought the system while keeping his mammas core value system intact by showing forgiveness, love, kindness, hope + optimism.
It’s an AMAZING story.
Keep the Kleenex handy because Anthony’s story will definitely tug hard at your heartstrings.
A powerful, emotional read.
It's not every day we get to see life from a side we wouldn't ordinarily know.
Experiencing the unimaginable is powerful because we tend to not believe what we can't imagine.
When we do, and we know what we didn't before, we can't undo such knowing.
Awareness is powerful, as is Understanding, both which don't always come easy.
"The moment we treat others as less than human, that's the moment we become monsters." A quote which comes to mind for me to represent a deep Understanding from the book.
A sharing of intimacy-of-being well worth reading.
Wow, this was such a heartbreaking read.It also had my blood boiling.
Who are these people elected in to play God?
The State of Alabama should be so embarrassed.This was such an interesting and touching story.
I read a lot of it with (I'm sure) a shocked look on my face when I could not believe all the imbecile moves being played behind the scenes with Hinton's life.I really found the part about Henry very interesting, as well.Good luck on any and all future endeavors Mr. Hinton.
You deserve it.Thanks to St. Martin's Press and Net Galley for providing me with a free e-galley in exchange for an honest, unbiased review.
4.25 stars Thanks to NetGalley and St Martin's Press, and especially to Ray Hinton, for allowing me to read and review this book.
Anthony 'Ray' Hinton was happy living his life - caring for his mother, attending church, working a job he did not mind, and appeasing for the wrongs he had done as a young man.
This book, written by him, was his journey through the unjust Alabama justice system, his many lawyers and appeals and his confinement for 30 years on Death Row. How many men and women are currently sitting on Death Row?
He does an excellent job about teaching us how unjust the justice system is and follows several cases where innocent men were sent to prison or death row for crimes they did not commit.When I saw he wrote the forward for this memoir, I knew I had to read it.
Anthony Ray Hinton was put on death row at age 29 for crimes he was completely innocent of.
If you watched Making a Murderer, you’ll want to read this book.Thank you to Anthony Ray Hinton for writing it and the work he’s doing now with his limited free time to make sure it doesn’t happen to others.
You need to read this book! Heart-wrenchingly tragic and extremely inspiring - written with true flair and style.
Audio #125
