https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17780.In_the_Heart_of_the_Sea
”I turned around and saw him about one hundred rods [500 m or 550 yards] directly ahead of us, coming down with twice his ordinary speed of around 24 knots (44 km/h), and it appeared with tenfold fury and vengeance in his aspect. The surf flew in all directions about him with the continual violent thrashing of his tail. His head about half out of the water, and in that way he came upon us, and again struck the ship." —Owen Chase, first mate of the whaleship Essex. “There she blows!” was as much
Once the harpoon was in the whale, the sailors became the fastest moving humans on the planet as the whale would try to escape by fleeing at upwards of 27 mph while pulling the boat and crew along with it.
As I was looking through Rockwell Kent’s art for Moby Dick, I was surprised how well I remembered each of the sketches even though I haven’t read the book for decades.So they take the oil, some blubber, and the ambergris; those parts had ready value that made Nantucket in the heyday of the whaling era very wealthy.
Really there are two things you need to know about me: I distrust people who walk on the balls of their feet.
There are three things you need to know about me: At the age of three, I watched the movie Jaws in its entirety from the back seat of my parents Volkswagen Bug at a drive-in theater.
There're four things you need to know about me: I don’t like to work.
Because we spend all our time away from our friends and families, doing stuff we don’t like, so we can buy stuff we don't need.No. Leisure is the truest wealth.
(The notes and select bibliography themselves take up another 50-or-so pages, most of them primary sources.) What's really impressive to me about all of the research Philbrick did, is how, through the overwhelming web of whaling and Nantucket and cannibalism that must have become his mind, he maintained a grip on what would interest his audience.
Just as you come to a realization ("wow, so the whales' social lives were structured a lot like the Nantucketers'") he articulates it -- of course, better than you had, and often utilizing the words "predator" and "prey".
Best piece of non-fiction I’ve read in years – I know it’s a cliché but you can’t make this stuff up!
In 1819, a whaling ship is rammed by a sperm whale, not once but twice and the surviving crew drifts for 90 days in three tiny boats, Captain Bligh’s 48 day ordeal pales in comparison.
Philbrick’s handling of the moral & ethical dilemmas these men struggled with was beautiful, the inclusion of the Melville / Captain George Pollard connection icing on the cake.Cons: Maybe the characterizations could have been stronger, I wasn’t all that sympathetic to their plight but that’s probably not fair, I was routing for the whales.
sperm whale wasn’t enough?
Herman Melville decided to base Moby Dick on the pre-cannibal events, so you are well within your rights to blame Nantucket for having to have sat through this book in Literature class and then have to come up with some sort of class project to illustrate points from the book:A scratch and sniff diorama depicting the whaling industry.Thar she blows!
This book was a fantastic tale, the facts of which were an inspiration to Melville who met the surviving captain years later.
Beset by bad luck, the boat is stuck for weeks in the doldrums with no wind, struck by an unhappy (but not white) whale which founders the boat, and then struggle (mostly unsuccessfully) to survive with almost no food or water and almost no possible escape.
It is a tale of human strength and desperation and highly readable.
I read it before my third reading of Moby Dick and it was a fantastic background read.
"It was a tale of a whale-man's worst nightmare: of being left in a boat far from land with nothing left to eat or drink and perhaps worst of all......of a whale with the vindictiveness and guile of a man."This deadly true story of the 1820 (85' long, 80 ton) whale attack on the Essex was not exactly what I expected, but oh so much more.
"The Essex disaster is not a tale of adventure.
It is a tragedy that happens to be one of the greatest true stories ever told."
A phenomenal telling of the disaster at sea, that spurred Herman Melville to write Moby Dick,In the Heart of the Sea by Nathaniel Philbrick is exceptional. Philbrick takes us inside the tragedy with painstaking care and newly discovered research. He describes hour to hour what happened on the ill-fated voyage. This is my favorite type of historical writing. It never feels stodgy or stilted. You feel like you are there suffering along with the crew. Ultimately, it is a tale of the optimism of the human spirit and our ability to overcome heinous circumstances.
OMG THIS IS BECOMING A MOVIE OMG OMG OMG I AM SO HAPPY RIGHT NOW
If you have any interest in whaling, the age of sail, and shipwrecks, you'll not do better than In the Heart of the Sea. It's very much like the non-fiction version of Moby Dick, made all the more intense for being the real deal.
In fact, the historic event depicted in this book is the basis for Melville's story.
Or, if you want to get all the facts straight (as straight as recorded history can provide) after seeing the movie, you should definitely give Philbrick's book a read.
MOBY-DICK is one of my favorite books, so I'm ashamed that it took me so long to read IN THE HEART OF THE SEA, the inspiration for Melville's classic and the true tale of the Essex's sinking by an angry sperm whale.
The suffering endured by these whaling men of the sea is only matched by the sheer cruelty they inflicted upon the gentle giants below the waves—that is, until one ornery whale decided to fight back, and in turn, set forth the events that would forever change the island of Nantucket and inspired a future novel that would come to be known as one of literature's greatest triumphs.
A must-read for fans of MOBY-DICK, adventures on the early seas, and of nature's wrath and man's singular mixture of egotism and bravery.
This book was so engrossing that I felt as if I had worked on a whaling ship and had survived a disaster at sea.
This tragedy was so famous in the 1800s that it inspired Herman Mellvile's novel Moby Dick.Nathaniel Philbrick is a skilled writer of history, weaving together the details of the disaster and providing context to both the whaling industry in the 19th century and the island of Nantucket, which was considered home to most of the crew.
The Essex, a ship full of whalers, ventures into the Pacific to kill a lot of animals, usually in a very horrific way, and the men get what they've got coming when a male sperm whale attacks and sinks the ship.The story even inspired Herman Melville, the famous writer of Moby Dick, who met the son of Owen Chase (the first mate on the Essex).This book presents a detailed account of the life of a whaler from Nantucket, the culture on the island and how it changed throughout the years, the life on board of a whaleship, the gruesome practice of killing not just whales but also other animals such as tortoises, and what happened after the attack of the sperm whale that sank the Essex.What I liked very much was that the author went to great lengths to collect all the available accounts and combined them.
Hang on.
The book was entertaining, though.
Having very little knowledge of the whaling industry and maritime travel in general, I was nevertheless easily able to follow the story thanks to the talent of Nathaniel Philbrick.
The level of violence involved in actually killing and processing a whale was astounding considering the extremely pious nature of these men; but as Philbrick notes: "Nantucketers saw no contradiction between their livelihood and their religion.
After learning that this true story of the Essex and the monstrous whale that caused her demise are the inspirations behind Herman Melville's writing, I have now renewed my desire to re-read that once-formidable book Moby Dick!
The trailer states that the Essex goes beyond the known world, which no it didn't, but I'm also fairly sure that Owen Chase's jaw wasn't nearly as square as Hemsworth's, so I'm willing to allow poetic license.
It doesn't even pay that well anymore, now that we have natural gas and stuff.· Moby-Dick sounds like an engaging book that I want to read right away.
Ralph Waldo Emerson mentions in his diary, years before Moby-Dick, the tale of a whaler obsessed with tracking down the whale that ruined his ship.

The whaleship Essex, 15 months into an expected journey of three years, is head-butted and sunk by a sperm whale, an unprecedented and bizarre attack that inspired Herman Melville's classic "Moby Dick." Left at a point in the Pacific that could not be further from land, the twenty crewmembers board three leaky whaleboats with limited food and freshwater.
In prose that is sparse and authoritative, Philbrick spices his story with topics as far ranging as sperm whale anatomy and the physiology and psychology of starvation and dehydration.
“In the Heart of the Sea” is my first time reading the work of Nathaniel Philbrick.
This is an excellent and engaging text, and like the best nonfiction the reader feels the immediacy and importance of the events described therein.The book follows the last voyage of the Nantucket whaleship “Essex” and the trek for survival made by the ship’s crew.
Philbrick does an outstanding job digressing from his narrative when he feels a further explanation will benefit his reader.
In short, “In the Heart of the Sea” is a gripping and informative read in the vein of the best narrative nonfiction.
In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex: So much more than a survival tale or a seafaring story or Nantucket legend or the catalyst for the literary classic: Moby Dick."The Essex disaster is not a tale of adventure.
It is a tragedy that happens to be one of the greatest true stories ever told."Within these pages (which you'll be compelled to turn ever-so quickly) there are undercurrents of societal and mariner hierarchies: man against man, man against the sea, man against God's creation, and ultimately, Man against the Creator.
There is also an exploratory look at what life was like on the whaling island of Nantucket during the eighteen-hundreds; before, during, and after the Essex tragedy.
Roque do Pico, na zona norte da ilha, foi recuperada uma antiga fábrica da indústria baleeira, originando o magnífico Museu da Indústria Baleeira que exibe inúmera maquinaria e outros apetrechos usados no aproveitamento e na transformação dos cetáceos em óleo e farinha.
Roque do Pico - Ilha do Pico – AçoresA prática da caça à baleia nos Açores - condenável ética e ecologicamente – assentava, em vivências ancestrais, usos e costumes que se perpetuavam de geração em geração numa luta titânica e desigual entre os homens, em pequenos botes baleeiros e os enormes cetáceos, com o uso de técnicas arcaicas, numa actividade que se extinguiu em 1987.
I probably can't say anything that hasn't already been said about IN THE HEART OF THE SEA. This was just an amazing account of not only the Essex, but the early days of whaling in the American colonies. Fascinating stuff and also so tragic. I liked the film version very much as well.
The mesmerizing story of the 19th century Nantucket whaleboat Essex, sunk after being rammed by a giant sperm whale, its crew afloat in whaleboats in the Pacific for weeks as their limited provisions eventually expire. Philbrick's well-researched account not only synchronizes multiple witness recollections, but provides historical context with regards to the Nantucket community and the 19th century American whaling industry, all in 238 unputdownable pages. And this real-life story was also the inspiration for the ultimate whale tale: Moby-Dick. High time to get to sea as soon as you can indeed.
While its intended use was to facilitate putting out chimney fires with buckets of sand, the walk was also an excellent place to look out to sea with a spyglass, to search for sails of returning ships.Philbrick quickly limns the fascinating history of Nantucket, home to Quakers and whalers and a seafaring tradition.
He was usually the lightest of the crew, and it was his job to make sure the whale line didn't tangle as it was hauled back into the boat.After reading Philbrick's clean descriptions, I think I actually started to understand Moby Dick.
The majority of the people in Nantucket had never even SEEN a whale -- and yet these were the creatures supplying them with so much oil to go about their daily lives?
Later, their aversion to cannibalism seemed to wear off quickly, although when you're in survival mode, living really is the only thing that matters.
I made a note in one update about how they couldn't catch a break, but then, I don't know that I wanted them to.
However intriguing it was to read about their rescue and subsequent lives, I backed the whale all the way.
A terrific read, based on original documents recovered long after the events described in the book, which took place mostly in 1820.
But on this voyage, after their ship is battered by a huge sperm whale, many do not survive.
It is also interesting to consider that each of the narratives on which this book are based reflects the point of view of the writer, and may not be the precise truth, like all history.Another aspect of the book is the description of Nantucket in the 19th century, which for those who have been there touches some interesting emotions.
Also on my blog The Periodic Table of Elephants.Any reader who has read 'The Life of Pi' and 'Moby Dick' should be all over this as both works of fiction were inspired by the tragic events of the Essex.
All the crew survive the sinking but they are stranded in the middle of the Pacific, in a region desolate of life, and they seem to want to make it back to civilisation the hardest way possible.
There are so many parallels in the fictional story, and it would have been great to get all the references.A great read that taught me a lot about the whaling industry with a lot about ocean survival.
"Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my last breath at thee." - Moby-DickI've been wanting to read this book for years.
I enjoyed Philbrick's Mayflower and Sea of Glory.
Given how much I love Moby-Dick, I'm kinda surprised it took me so long (15 years) to read this history of the Essex.
Philbrick paces this narrative well.
When the story leaves gaps, he dead reckons and is able to fill the story in with similar types of accidents, aggressive whale experiences, sailors, oil, blood, starvation, and -- well -- other episodes of cannibalism.
Nathaniel Philbrick not only relates all minutia of this chronological multi-year saga of the Essex, but also sets that in the proper setting- like a gem in an elaborate piece of jewelry.
Apart from the voyage maps.It's a lifestyle that meant the men were home for 3 months out of 3 years gone.
Much of this book if put into a fiction piece would be deemed strongly unbelievable.
Every process is completely in each partial piece of progression described.
Resulting in not having the facts, but believing the hype- and thus going 3000 plus miles out of their way for "help".What a work is man.
1,500 miles off the coast of Chile, it was rammed and sunk by a sperm whale.
Cannibalism is an uncomfortable part of the story and is thoughfully, not luridly, treated.
The story helps elucidate some of what it means to be human, our mastery of amazing feats as a collective and the courage and resourcefulness of individuals in the face of death.
Sperm whales are believed to number in the millions now and are not endangered; right whales obviously never recovered from the whaling industry.
