https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301053.The_Elementals
I would read a lot more horror tales if they were all this well written with this much originality.
If you are looking for that perfect horror story to take with you to the beach...
So have you ever been walking along a beach and felt the sand trying to pull you down?
Just a natural settling you say.
But did you look to see if perhaps it had left a mark around your ankles?The sand wants what it wants.
The sand is combing for you.
horror is the Sin-Eater of literature; if every Great Novel is a golden road that leads the reader on journeys of learning and experience, then horror novels are those places outside that path, within the earth beneath it, the dark foundation and all those pathless places, the dirt & the debris & the many-legged crawling things, the areas that live without markers and guideposts yet surround us still.
this is in some ways the essence of horror: the tableau of humanity, threatened and tormented by things that spurn our paths, that exist beyond our understanding.
This book was written in the 80's and a lot of my fellow book loving friends have recommended it to me over the last few years.
I felt like I was there.Another thing that I, (and a few others reading the book with me), enjoyed was the way the author would write a smooth paragraph where everything is cool and then WHAM: one chilling sentence that rocked the world of the reader.
That didn't surprise me because the characters in this book came alive to me just like the characters in Beetlejuice did.
Maybe it is the reverse effect; I hardly ever watch anything romantic but like to read some romantic, erotic material with a comedy twist.Who knows and who cares, but I decided to add some horror reads to our Halloween month now when actually having a few days of free time due to a common cold, and what would be a better way to start than going through my friends recommendations.
Oh dear, what a perfection of atmospheric horror.The Elementals is an unique horror book.
The horror itself is like Michael Myers' slow walk.
When Marian Savage dies, her son and his family head south to Beldame to recover in beach houses that have been in the family for generations.
The third house stays vacant, for an ancient evil lurks within...I read Blackwater: The Complete Caskey Family Saga earlier this year and loved it.
The Savages and McCrays have been coming to Beldame for years but have always avoided the mysterious third house.
It's India McCray's first visit to Beldame so naturally she's very curious about the third house.
Michael McDowell takes his time, develops the Savages and McCrays into characters you can't help but be interested it.
If Tennessee Williams wrote a supernatural horror novel, it would read like THE ELEMENTALS.
But some of the most fascinating aspects of Tennessee Williams's plays are exhibited in this novel: atypical/dysfunctional familial relationships; unpleasant truths suppressed or left unspoken; horror-through-acquiescence; moments of shocking violence; manipulative, vicious matriarchs and patriarchs; and a seething, suffocating atmosphere (both thermally and emotionally).
THE ELEMENTALS is without a doubt one of the best horror novels I've read this year, a tale that every horror reader should experience, and a story from which every horror writer can learn.
SOLID 5 STARS!Honestly, I think I'd have a difficult time finding a better example of a "quiet horror" book that delivers genuine chills!
This is one story that I can see re-reading every few years, just to bring back that sense of utter foreboding that I got from it.Highly recommended to fans of "quiet horror"!*Re-read April 2016--If possible, I enjoyed the second read of this even more than the first!
The atmosphere--unspoiled by "knowing too much" reminded me much of the feeling I get when reading Algernon Blackwood's "The Willows".
This is a perfect example of horror at its best, in my opinion.***Re-read April 2018--Obviously one of my favorite books, EVER!
I still feel this is atmospheric horror, at its absolute best.
"savage mothers eat their children up!"...still the parrot squawking about my earsin 1981, the paperback costed $2.95, now it costs over $20.95, but that's not what's stir-frying my ass...it's that the golden age of horror novels is really gone and it's long gone, alas...i'd been prepping for not getting ass stir-fried by this great book, but i'm now just being ass stir-fried by it and i'm enjoying it..."the sands is the elementals, the sands is combing for you..."
Una genialidad. Personajes inolvidables. Una gran historia que por momentos da escalofríos.
The Elementals by Michael McDowell was first released in 1981 and then re-released in 2014 by Valancourt Books with an introduction by author Michael Rowe.The story begins with the funeral of Marian Savage, the matriarch of an old and opulent family from Alabama with an intriguingly peculiar and disturbing burial rite.The Savage family are linked by marriage, friendship and history to the McCrays and both families spend the summer at Beldame.
At night the island is cut off from the mainland by the tide, there is literally no escape from what haunts the night.What the author excels at, what you can actually feel, is the atmosphere, crippling, oppressive heat, the pitch black shroud of night and that third house, slowly being consumed by the fine white sand.
Never EVER let me read a horror novel when I’m home alone at night EVER again. EVER.
Even to me, and I've read it before!On a spit of land in southern Alabama sits three houses, one-the Savage family's summer retreat is called Beldame.
Another belongs to another family, but the third?
You'll have to read or listen to this book to find out!You are probably already familiar with Michael McDowell-if you've seen the movies Beetlejuice or The Nightmare Before Christmas, you are!
More importantly, for horror fans, he's written a number of flat out awesome horror books in the 80's and I highly recommend each and every one.I hope that all of them will be released via audiobook, so I can experience these well told, scary stories one more time.
4.5/5 Review of this will be up tomorrow!
One is abandoned, slowly being swallowed up by the ever-shifting dunes.
For within the shifting sands, something stirs.This book is a masterpiece of Southern Gothic.
An atmospheric sun-drenched sojourn into horror that matches pace to place, a laconic stroll through the hazy, lazy days of summer, populated by the kind of eccentrics you only find below the Mason/Dixon Line.
The dialogue has that authentic Southern twang, with healthy servings of pecan pie level nuttiness that will set you giggling.
And through it all, the sibilance of shifting sand will chill you to the bone.Kudos to Valancourt Books for returning this lost masterwork of Quiet Horror back into print.
This isn't part of that series, but I always think of them together as I read it after my wife in her "McDowell Period").My wife was always more the "horror" fan than I was/am and she ended up introducing me to several authors/books I probably would never have tried had she not found them first.
That said however it's so well written that even though it's basically simply a brain candy paperback it surprises, draws the reader in and stays with you.Knowing that there's a certain "depression factor" if you like atmospheric horror, I'd give this one a try.
I'm surprised that this apparently a "throw-away" (you know "cheap paperback") horror novel has stayed in my mind so well.
It sits there long abandoned and ready to be forgotten.Something evil lurks in that third house and the inhabitants of Beldame are about to figure out what.That is all I'm going to say directly about the plot so as to not give anything away.
And even though I'm a fan of horror who follows the genre, I am rarely scared or creeped out by a book.
In this book I was scared many times, particularly by the scenes that took place in the third house, and that made me particularly happy.
They were good books.Oh and by the way, stay away from the third house or Martha Ann will getcha.
We have Odessa, the family house-keeper, who is described as "Odessa Red, a thin, grim black woman who had been three decades in the dead woman’s employ" when she is introduced, but who later becomes the family's protector and "good" witch, and there are Luker and his daughter India, who left the South and live in New York, and are less prone to give in to superstition than the rest of their family.
. .”“I don’t.”“Your whole life is a fucking trauma,” said Luker.
Ante la ola de elogios cada día más atosigante dudé en subirme uno de los booms del momento, uno de los libros más publicitados de la notable editorial La Bestia Equilatera.
Y acá estoy tratando de alabar lo menos posible este libro que me encantó, cosa rarísima cuando uno se topa con algo tan recomendado que genere tanta expectativa.
Puede calificar como pequeña obra maestra del terror y sin duda es muy recomendable a pesar que tanta recomendación y loas pueda jugarle en contra.Me alegra haber dejado los prejuicios de lado..
Aflójenle al bombo marketinero y dejen que fluya este buen libro.
3.5 starsWhen reading this, expect to go between dry humor and subtle creepiness.Unusual characterization makes the book stand out as much as the plot does.
I’m guessing he does what is right and loves his daughter but has much more of a friend than father relationship – they swear comfortably in front of each other, talk about any adult subject under the sun, and he even serves her alcohol drinks when he’s having one (she’s 13.) Strange but it’s not a deterrence from the story.Most of the family was humorous - Odessa the maid played a large role but was the only actual cliché of the group.
It’s supernatural but I haven’t seen something like this done before.
Voy a reseñarlo sin spoilers, lo cual será muy difícil porque hay miles de momentos que quisiera comentar en particular...Michael McDowell nos deleita con una historia gótica sureña, ambientada en el pueblo de Mobile, Alabama y que se desarrolla en medio de un verano con un calor sofocante.
El libro llegó a mis manos en el momento perfecto, pues justo en mi ciudad las temperaturas estaban a tope y todos moríamos de calor, lo que le dio un plus a la lectura de esta historia.La familia Savage es extremadamente rica, pero también muy excéntrica.
Despite its slow pace or maybe because of it I was drawn into this one from the very first chapter, which really set the tone and feel of this one.Screaming Nails. Family secrets. Family rituals. The Elementals.Something sinister is going on near the McCray and Savage family homes at Beldame. A presence has made itself known. It lives in the sand that is slowly devouring the third house and now it wants more. Much more.A very good Southern Slow Burn Horror tale that really cranks up the tension in the last quarter. Solid 4 Stars.
Alabama native and horror writer Michael McDowell knew Southern Gothic.
This creepy masterpiece from the golden age of horror blends the indolence of a steamy southern summer with the horror of unknown things that lurk on the fringes of the imagination.
The setting, three Victorian mansions set on a tiny island on Alabama's gulf coast is an ideal setting for a tale that will leave you chilled even in the hot summer sun.I want to thank the folks at the Literary Darkness group in Goodreads for introducing me to this stellar author.
It's a shame that he was taken from us too soon.
And this book really was a pleasure, start to finish!The Elementals opens with the funeral of matriarch Marian Savage, where proceedings move forward at a fairly pedestrian pace; although the bizarre events surrounding the service are sure to pique the readers interest.Following the funeral service and internment, members of the Savage and McCray families set off for a period of reflection at their long-time seasonal holiday retreat of Beldame, an isolated spit of land that is set between The Gulf and St Elmo's Lagoon, and whereon stand three Victorian properties.
She has a close relationship with a 13 year old girl named India, who is the youngest member of the family going out to the summer homes and she's super pretentious, curious and annoying.
This part reminded me of Beetlejuice (which McDowell wrote the screenplay for).Without being spoilery about the plot, after the photographs are developed, the story really gets going and I LOVED every moment of it.
What are the Elementals?You really must read this book and find out--you have to hang in there through kind of a slow start but trust me, once the tale unfolds--you'll finish the rest of the book in one sitting.
4.5*
This was an amazing piece of southern literature. The characters were likeable and pretty awesome, especially India, although her relationship with her dad could be questionable. The houses in Beldame seemed like the perfect vacation although I emphasize seemed and if you read this book, which I highly recommend, you will see why. I'll tell you this, you certainly won't see sand the same way! Something is waiting for these two families that you won't wanna miss! Can't wait to read more from this author.
Una obra maestra. McDowell es un escritor increíblemente sutil creando una atmósfera de gran horror. Los personajes son su especial invento. Pocas historias pueden ser tan atractivas como ésta: la playa, las casas, el terror.
The isolation of Beldame, the third house with the sand covering it both inside and out, the beautiful waters of the Gulf, St. Elmo's Lagoon, the channel, the sand, and above all, the paralyzing heat and humidity of a southern summer that sucks the energy right out of a person -- the way he brings all of this place to life allows it to act not only on the characters directly, but also on the reader.
For those of you who know Shirley Jackson's Hill House, where nothing was ever what it seemed, this Victorian monstrosity by the gulf runs a close second.And that, I think, is the real power of McDowell's writing: he hints, infers, sketches, and alludes to all the dreadful things lurking in the obscene sand dune slowly swallowing this third house, but he lets you picture them for yourself, flesh them out, as it were, according to your own Hall of Fame Horribles.
Maybe you've read Peter Straub's Ghost Story. "The Elementals" sort of reminded me of that amazing novel, plus a couple of splatter-ish bits towards the end. There's a haunted house. And funny stuff happening in and around it.And... sand. Plenty of sand.Bear in mind this is not a proper ghost-story: the "elementals" aren't exactly people who, you know... snuffed it; also they appear to be more active in plain daylight.Oh, before I forget, "gone" in Alabama means "going to". Just so you know.
