https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1980646.By_the_Light_of_the_Study_Lamp
This is the first book in the series of mysteries I read as a (very) young girl.
Innocent times, for sure.These are companion books to the famous Nancy Drew mysteries which have recently been published again in their original language.
It is kind of fun to read about the girls in their roadster, carrying their torch to see in the dark.
The dark side of these sweet books is that (when judged by today's standard of political correct language) they sterotype anyone who is not an upper-middle-class WASP and I'd forgotten how common that kind of thinking was.
I read this series so long ago, that it is difficult to remember details. All I remember now is that I liked the Dana Girls better than Nancy Drew, although I don't remember why. It may have been the whole boarding school scene that appealed to me.
The hated Lettie, the girls' arch nemesis at boarding school, felt uncomfortably similar to Jean and Louise themselves (although unfortunately cursed with larger feet than our heroines), and all the way throughout the novel both girls were constantly obsessed with material objects first and human safety second (pick up the shiny watch on the ground or make sure the battered woman lying next to it is okay?
The battered woman probably stole it in the first place.).I was also disappointed at how little this novel read like a 1930s boarding school story.
This series seems comparable to Nancy Drew in a number of ways.
I've only read the first entry so I can't say that they are for sure.It's a simple fast-paced read, nothing too thrilling or overly exciting.
The violence in this book was more in line with the violence in the 1980's/1990's Nancy Drew series, and so was the recklessness of the Dana girls.
Obviously since this was a Carolyn Keene book written prior to the 1970's, some racially insensitive material was bound to occur.
I'se be jes' about the happies' woman in dis world if all colored folk don't talk like dis in deese books.
Although the Dana Girls attend boarding school, this is primarily a mystery series, and I always preferred Jean and Louise to Nancy Drew.
Read the old versions! Much better! And interesting... the terms they used back then!!!
I loved this series of books that I read back in junior high. They are from the same syndicate that wrote the Nancy Drew books and the Hardy Boys, but I much preferred the Dana Girls.
Back at school, the girls encounter Lettie Briggs.
The Dana Girls are a force to be reckoned with.
But honestly, after reading so many Nancy Drew's, it was a breath of fresh air to see two girls act this way.
This book is also set at an all-girls boarding school.
So the girls have to work around the school rules to accomplish their detective endeavors.
Like in Nancy Drew, the Dana girls have a suspect early on.
It's all about gathering evidence against them.There were a few times where I had to suspend belief because some of the action in the book was over the top.
By the Light of the Study Lamp (1934) was one of the books I picked up--a good place to start since it's the first of the series.In their first adventure, Louise and Jean receive a surprise present from their Uncle Ned--a beautiful antique study lamp that they plan to use when they return to Starhurst (their boarding school).
The girls are disappointed and arrive at Starhurst in a subdued mood, but are heartened when Mrs. Crandall, the head of the school tell them that they have been assigned the second-floor study room that they had requested the previous term.
[Lettie had been in the shop earlier, wanted the lamp, but thought the price too high.]It winds up that their lamp...and their study room...is the center of an old mystery.
I loved this book! This is an amazing sort and adventure with the Dana Girls. This series is very similar to Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys mysteries so if you enjoy reading those types of mysteries you would love this series. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves mysteries!
This was an amazing book! As I’ve said in other reviews, the Dana Girls are just as good as Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew books. If you get a chance to get a Dana Girls book, grab it because they are all amazing! 5 stars...
Synopsis:By the Light of the Study Lamp is the first book in the Dana Girls Mystery Stories.
Setting:By the Light of the Study Lamp is partly set when the Dana girls are at their country home in a town called Oak Falls and partly when they go back to Starrhurst boarding school in a town called Penfield.
My brother got me this book and the second one in the series ( which I’m looking forward to reading now!) as a Christmas present for nostalgic reasons because of my love for Nancy Drew growing up and his love for the Hardy Boys.
They are orphans and live in Oak Falls with their Uncle Ned. They attend the Starhurst School for Girls in Penfield, and are sophomores.Cora Appel is an incredibly clumsy and basically useless maid.
Aunt Harriet is in charge of the house.The story starts with their Uncle Ned sending the girls a present of a lamp.
She has a brother that is doing his best, but financially she may not be able to stay at the school.There's a good bit of humor in the books when one of Lettie's plans to get even with the Dana girls goes awry, and most of the time her plans do just that.
It is a sort of nostalgia for days gone by, a sort of fascination for a simpler time.
It was rather pointless to set this book in a boarding school and absolutely nothing to show for it.
This is the first book in the series, and starts off with the two girls receiving a gift from their Uncle Ned just before they go off to Starhurst for another year.
I think this is worth a read if you are looking for something old-fashioned but I definitely prefer Nancy Drew for teenage detective stuff and there really is no beating Enid Blyton for boarding school stories.
I picked this book out of a Free Library with the intent of comparing my impressions as an adult reader to the impressions I had as a pre-adolescent.
Second, my adult reading of "By the Light of the Study Lamp" was most notable for finding blatant racism: the dark, swarthy gypsy brother and sister are the bad guys.
The plot of this book moved along with one unlikely coincidence after another, amusing me as an adult reader.
I recall quiet afternoons reading Carolyn Keene books with my best childhood friends, Gretchen and Barb.
Also notable, is the fact that this is the first of the Dana Girls' mysteries.
Here in this little mystery for young girls, the ground work was being laid for the girl power of today.
Not only do these young women, on their own, track down dangerous thieves, drive a seriously injured person to a hospital when no ambulance is available and solve crimes before the police--but no damsels in distress needing rescue are they.
The book has barely started when they have rescued an unconscious man from dangerous rapids and driven him to safety.
Thoughts about book.Like the Nancy Drew series, I found this book to be both engaging and delightful.
It is the tale of two sisters(Louise and Jean Dana)who are orphans.
The girls receive a beautiful, valuable lamp from their seafaring Uncle Ned Dana.
However, the sisters not long after they received the gift find that has been stolen.
The sisters pursue the thief but to no avail.
They soon encounter a interesting gypsy woman, a girl named Evelyn Starr and a mystery that concerns treasure and a missing person.
I recommend this book to those who like Nancy Drew or History Mystery.
I never had the chance to read this series when I was young. I remember it being advertised in my Nancy Drew books. Parts of the book are dated but it makes for a fun read that takes you back to an earlier time when girls always wore skirts or dresses, even to slide down banisters to sneak out and chase criminals.
These older versions are always best, however though the Dana girls were quite good, I dont think I could put them above Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys. I'll still recommend these books to anyone who wants a good old fashioned mystery!!
Jean and Louise try to uncover the secret of a friends misery at Starhurst school, all the while trying to find out who is after the new study lamp they have recently been given. Love these original 1930's Dana Girls!
The 1st mystery in the Dana Girls series by Carolyn Keene.
Just felt very formulaic, nowhere near the standards of the Nancy Drew series. How many people can fall and hit their heads? Apparently 3...
This was the first series I collected as a young girl. I liked it better than the Nancy Drew series, which I also enjoyed.
Its very good
I'm not sure if I liked this book better than the Nancy Drew books or not but overall if you are a fan of Nancy Drew and The Hardy Boys you will love this book.
Very predictable, but still enjoyable. Much better than the last one I read.
I read this book a long time ago and I re-read it for an article I'm writing. I really liked this first book in the Dana Girls series. The antique lamp in the story provided lots of intrigue and the Dana Girl sleuths faced some danger as they followed the clues. There weren't too many coincidences in this book either. The girls' nemesis, Lettie Briggs, provides some mischief in the lives of the girls at Starhurst Boarding School. I think part of the charm of this series is that the girls live at a boarding school, a vintage scenario.
I didn't have high expectations for this book, but I was quite pleasantly surprised. Yes, it is campy and dated, and even a tad bit racist by today's standards. In spite of all that I had a good time reading it.
