https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/449170.Child_of_the_Dark
You can hardly believe that what you are reading actually takes place in this world.In Canada we are so far removed from the destitute conditions that surround so many people that it's really hard to imagine the life of those people.Child of the Dark is merely the account of the life of Carolina Maria de Jesus in the slums of Brazil.
It talks about her struggle every single day to collect enough paper to sell so that she can manage to feed herself and her three children.This novel astounds me because I cannot even imagine living like Carolina does.
O livro mais triste, real e sincero que eu já li. Nunca estive tão horrorizada com a crueldade humana. Leitura obrigatória para todos.
Com uma força ímpar, Carolina Maria de Jesus vai desvelando as agruras da vida (e morte) na favela, com uma vida miserável, jamais deixa diminuir a sua independência ou o amor aos livros e filhos em nome da sua própria rendeção financeira ou moral.
Neste Quarto de Despejo, que não é mais do que um diário, ela esmiúça o quotidiano dos moradores da favela e, sem rodeios, descreve os factos políticos e sociais que via, detalha as suas dores e os absurdos da vida que levava em condições de extrema marginalização.
Em Abril de 1958 Audálio Dantas, um jornalista do jornal A Folha da Noite, inicia as pesquisas para fazer uma reportagem sobre a favela do Canindé e quando aborda os moradores daquele lugar todos eles lhe dizem que deveria falar com Carolina.
My professor spent a good chunk of his life living in Colombia (different from Brazil obviously but still tackling similar social issues), and although he did not see the same slum-like Sao Paolofavelas pictured in de Jesus's diary, he saw the type of poverty that we don't really see in America.
Her perspective is unreliable at best--she insists grown men and women are rude to her children for no reason ("a man of 30 fighting a boy of 10," or whatever the ages are, comes up a lot), but with the way Carolina acts with the people she lives near, I can understand why these hungry and angry people hate her.But this doesn't make me any less sympathetic.
Livro difícil de ler, pois sua realidade é difícil. Carolina Maria de Jesus escreve linda e tristemente.
Entre tantos problemas, denúncias, anedotas e particularidades, o que mais ecoa nas anotações quase que diárias de Carolina Maria de Jesus em seu primeiro livro publicado,"Quarto de Despejo - Diário de uma Favelada", a fome é uma das realidades que mais se fez presente: não só na vida da própria autora, mas também de todos os moradores com quem compartilhava as mesmas ruas, as mesmas bicas d’água na primeira favela da grande São Paulo da década de 1950."Quarto de Despejo" é mais que um diário, é um livro denúncia que expõe as mazelas sofridas pelas pessoas excluídas da sociedade e afetadas pelo descaso dos políticos.

It does drive home the corrupting influence of the favela upon all its inhabitants, but it's also important to realize that our narrator is virtually as unreliable as all of her condemned neighbors.It also raises an interesting moral question, because in these circumstances of slum-dwelling we say that we want more of the people to behave like Carolina, to raise themselves out of it through an inner drive and self-discipline.
Of course that is a larger point of which Carolina was probably unaware, but that we can arrive at it through her writing is a further demonstration of this book's importance.
Confronto com uma realidade de fome, miséria, prostituição, alcoolismo, falta de sonhos e esperanças em um futuro melhor.Todos deveriam ler esse livro.
As pessoas precisam compreender o que é uma favela e o porquê de a meritocracia não funcionar quando o direito mais básico e humano que é o alimento, não é assistido.O livro me fez refletir no poder da literatura também!
O livro me marcou de uma forma especial, pois no início da faculdade, tive a experiência de trabalhar um ano e meio em um projeto que atendia cooperativas de reciclagem de lixo...o contato com a realidade daquelas mulheres me marcou muito na época!
Read this for a school book list recommendation-for that purpose I would rate the book higher than 2 stars.
Reading it for enjoyment would not be first on my list.
Great piece of history.I was devastated to research that her life after the book did not end well.
I asked many of the same questions that critics did-why not demand money from the fathers of her children?
Would she have run the risk of losing her children if she had?
Was her pride her downfall in the end?
In the end, do we die into what we were born?
Not entirely sure why I have always been so intrigued by this subject, I think because I wish I could help them all find a better way to live.
And their stories of survival and struggling help put my own life into perspective and teach me to be more humble.
I think this is why I plan to continuously revisit this subject in the future, I need to remind myself that I am privileged and I must always remain humble, and seek ways to help the people who are in need, because it seems to make my heart feel better when I do, even if I am a misanthrope.
I was attracted to this book in the first place as it was written in and is about São Paulo, Brasil where I lived shortly after this book was published.
I was able to recognize the time and place and many of the names used.
It is a bit of a dry read, after all, it is a diary.
One of the reasons I find it important is in how it shows how little has changed despite all the struggle.
I thought this was well worth my time.
I also think it is critically important to read the afterword.

Nasıl bir gazeteci tesadüf bulmuşsa bu günlüğü ben de bir sahafın tozlu raflarının arasında rastlamıştım kitaba.İlgi çekici bir anlatım,içler acısı bir yaşantı,inanılmaz detaylarla yüklü bir kitap.Yıllar önce okumama rağmen hala hafızamdadır..
A literatura é o melhor exercício de empatia que podemos experimentar.Carolina de Jesus é uma sobrevivente da fome e da pobreza através de sua incansável paixão pela leitura e pela escrita.Um relato marcado pela fome, a pobreza, a vontade de morrer, mas seguir vivendo
Realistic, heavy as it should be, but at the same time, lyrical, highly politicized, conscious and contemporary (despite having been written nearly six decades ago).
It's somewhat grueling to read - day after day she goes out and looks for paper and trash to sell, raids trash cans for food, wonders what she is going to feed her children.
Must have been even more grueling to live...The remarkable thing is that Carolina had only 2 years of education as a child, and retained a thirst to read and write her entire life.
The afterword to this book as interesting as the book itself - for larger society had complex reactions to Carolina and largely rejected her for not fitting their expectations.
I give the book 3 stars for the reading experience, but for content and consciousness-raising it gets 5+.
I hated this book, but feel guilty about it. What can you do?
This should be required reading for everyone in America. It offers a view of poverty that we, as a privileged nation, rarely see and therefore have no understanding of it and its implications.
It's not meant to be an example of great writing; rather, it is incredibly raw and serves to really transport the reader to what life was like in the favela for Carolina.
The diary was not started for public consumption, but the reporter's opinion did impact how she wrote the diary going forward, such as leaving out the name of Vera's father by his request.I am really intrigued by the question presented in the afterword: is the diary more important as a historical document or as a work of literature?
But again, this is the nature of reading a diary that chronicles the mundane day-to-day life of anyone, really.As a historical document, it offers quite a lot more in my opinion.
E eu sou brasileiro, tenho mais de 50 anos e já li uns 500 livros na vida.
É pra se pensar, não?Quarto de Despejo é um livro que estoura bolhas.
Parece-me agora que eu fui um cidadão brasileiro incompleto até ler este livro.
Antes dele eu estava semi-cego pra vida na favela.
E de eu ter conhecido a Favela da Maré no Rio de Janeiro, rapidinho.Por que lê-se O Cortiço e não este livro nas escolas brasileiras?
Pra se pensar, não?
Simples e concreta.Muito triste ler o livro, mais porque nada ou pouco mudou nos últimos 50 anos desde que o livro foi escrito.
Um soco no estômago.Fome, violência e sujeira. Relato em primeira pessoa dos desafios de uma mãe solteira na miséria.Essencial para sair da bolha e conhecer a dura realidade de muitos brasileiros até hoje.
That includes me too, because I am also a flavelado (one who lives in the slums)" She says things like this through the whole book.~ She keeps complaining how dirty she is and how dirty her children and shack are.
Etc. etc.~ She also tells ( almost sounds like bragging) of all the men that are lining up around the block to sleep with her and all the men that want to live with her.
But I don't need a man." She says things like this several times.
Contudo, as dificuldades, como a fome, pobreza e a violência que a cercam são contadas de modo sutil, quase pueril, o que torna a narrativa bela.Quarto de despejo representa o gênero literatura-verdade, pois traz o relato fiel de uma catadora de papel, moradora da Favela do Canindé, em São Paulo, onde atualmente encontra-se o estádio da Portuguesa de Desportos e a Marginal Tietê.
“Afinal, ninguém melhor do que ela para escrever a sua história”.A fome, constantemente presente na vida da autora e referida inúmeras vezes ao longo do diário, fazia com que Carolina, por vezes, perdesse a esperança.
The unadulterated excerpts of Carolina - single mother, paper gatherer, impoverished Sao Paolo favelado - speaks authentically of desperationa and hope tightly bound in a life mired in a socioeconomic hell.
St. Clair's Translator's Note speaking of a woman nearly ridden out of slums on a rail when the book successfully comes out.
The Note also says Carolina was pushing her novels and declairing here memoirs were a diary never meant for any eyes than her own.
Part of this bookk actually records her book being published and the reaction to it.Finally, a little more whitespace would have made reading easier.
felt that de Jesus’ diary was accurate for the time, though a bit heavy handed with criticism for her neighbors and a bit of a holier than thou attitude.
For example, she complains about her neighbors who have succumbed to prostitution, but she has a gentleman or two that visit her for sex and bring money… so I am not sure how that differs?
I assume that reflected her life, but it doesn’t make a good book.
She lived a sad life.
I have a hard time picturing other people really being enthused about it.For a full review visit http://ireadalotofbooks.com/child-of-...
I had to read this for a Latin American history class to get an understanding of life in a favela.
While de Jesus definitely showed how bad the conditions were and how favelados are basically a forgotten people, I didn't much care for Carolina's haughty, self-righteous tone.
She denigrated the favelados, even when she at some points in the book understood that poverty and the conditions in which they lived caused them to act in an "uncivilized" manner, for lack of a better word.
I would not recommend this book because although it is illustrative of favela life, Carolina Maria de Jesus is frankly sickening.

I read this book a few years ago but it had a profound effect on my understanding of the world. Carolina Maria De Jesus is a writer and a mother struggling to stay alive in a favela in Brazil. If you've seen the movie "City of God" you might have an idea what the crushing poverty is like there. A very good read and especially important because it is one of the few opportunities to hear a third world woman tell her story herself.
