https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2138727.Mudbound
I wrote this book so I can hardly be expected to be objective!
The assignment was to write 3 pages in the voice of a family member, so I decided to write about my grandparents’ farm — a sort of mythic place I’d grown up hearing about, which actually was called Mudbound — from my grandmother’s point of view.
Mudbound is a fine read, offering interesting characters, and a poignant view of race relations in the South, particularly after World War II.
"I started out writing what I thought was going to be a short story in the voice of Laura," Jordan says, "and as the story grew, I just found myself wanting to hear from other people.
Set just after the end of World War Two in 1946, this is a harsh Southern novel that encapsulates the Jim Crow era.
With a mother fearful that her daughter would be left on the shelf, Laura marries Henry McAllan, a World War 1 veteran.
And then there is Henry's father, Pappy, a horrifying individual, full of bigotry and hate, who terrifies Laura and her children.
This is a story of two families, the McAllans and the black Jacksons, bound uncomfortably together through their sharecropping agreements.
in comparison to Henry, and Laura is drawn to him.
Laura is a city girl, on the brink of being labeled ‘old maid.’ When Henry McAllan rescues her from spinsterhood, she didn’t realize that her life would be significantly altered when Henry decides to fulfill a lifelong dream of purchasing a piece of his own land.
We hear from three of the McAllans – Laura, Jamie and Henry as well as three of the Jacksons – Florence, Ronsel and Hap. To my surprise, author Hillary Jordan managed to pull this off with much finesse, and I appreciated each individual viewpoint.
Laura strikes up a friendship, albeit a complex one, with Florence Jackson, wife to the McAllan’s tenant, Hap Jackson.
4.5 StarsThrough the eyes and ears and thoughts of these two families –one black, one white – with a total of six people, we get a small glimpse of life in the post-war 1930’s and 40’s living in the Mississippi Delta region.
All the mud.From Laura we hear her thoughts a total of twelve times throughout this story.
When the rains came hard, the river rose and swallowed the bridge that was the only way across.
Racism, which is always present to some degree, really begins to rear its ugly head when Jamie comes to the farm, returning from WWII, around the same time that Ronsel, the son of the black sharecropper family that farm part of their land returns, as well.
Sometimes it is a good thing I don't stick to a plan.Hillary Jordan's Bellwether Prize winning novel subtly captures all the nuances of the South -- the uneasy inter-reliance the races have always had on each other; the familial ties that often defy explanation; and the realization that it was the fertile ground for change tilled during World War II in which the seeds of social change were planted.Mudbound is written in the alternating voices of the McAllan and Jackson families.
Anyone who believes that Negroes are not God's children never heard Lilly May Jackson sing to Him.This is not to say that I thought of Florence and her family as equal to me and mine.
We learn not just about people’s needs, such as food, shelter, health, and for love, but also their wants – and how basic wants can sometimes create havoc in obtaining basic needs.From Jamie we learn about the dangers of taking on the status quo – when even doing the right thing (and things one wants to do for themselves) can have unbelievably shocking consequences for oneself, but even more so for others.There is so much to learn about in this book – some that is familiar, and some set in a frame that is far less known and far less discussed.This novel and the people who drive the story forward will remain in my heart and memory for a long time to come.
had I not loved Jordan’s When She Woke I would never have attempted this), including Ronsel (a black soldier), Hap and Florence (his parents), Jaime (a white soldier), Henry (his older brother) and Laura (Henry’s wife).
and while Greenville really is a Delta town, Marietta is actually over 200 miles away in the northeast part of the state.THE MESSAGE: Several underwhelmed reviewers have mocked the Bellwether Prize, which is meant to recognize a book that advances social justice in some way.
I enjoyed it so much!I liked the way the author presented each chapter from the point of view of a different character.
This way we got to discover what each individual was really like rather than seeing them only from another persons view.
It was very noticeable that one character was never given this opportunity to speak and it was a good thing!The book opens in a very captivating way with a scene which is repeated towards the end.
I was also grateful for the author's input at the end which lets us know what probably happened to the characters later in life.
Mudbound is a story of two families, one black and one white, living in post World War II Mississippi and farming the same land, one as a landholder and the other as a tenant.
If you take away the racial barriers, who is a sick man like Pappy ever going to feel superior to?
Mudbound is an unflinching look at the horrors that were virtually inseparable from the society itself and the price that was paid by those who were caught in the hardtack life of the Jim Crow South, and a read worth steeling yourself for.
I always find it odd to say I loved a book when the story told is unpleasant. Actually, unpleasant is not a strong enough word, horrific is probably more accurate. This story is about many things but I think the main focus is on bigotry and racism. It takes place just after WW II in rural Mississippi and is told by several POV's, all of them main players in what happens. I never summarize plots in my "reviews", just how a book made me feel and this one made me feel a lot. Highly recommend.
This wonderful books was a pleasant surprise for me... Must read... You would think that with Uncle Tom's Cabin and with Roots we had enough of such topics... but no... Unfortunately due to no marketing efforts from the publisher the book went unnoticed on Serbian market... Pity, great book!
Mudbound by Hillary Jordan is a extremely well written and thought provoking novel.
The literary structure of this book is very compelling, telling the same story from the perspective of the different characters really brings out the emotion of this Novel.
A tough read but a rewarding one and a book where the characters will stay with me.
The characters are fully developed and very real and I was able to visualise each and every one of them.
I recently watched the movie of this book and it was extremely well done.
I read this as a book club read and I think it will make for a great discussion.
But Jordan, who is white, did something even more daring by speaking with the voice of three black narrators, one female and two males – and she pulled it off.All of the principal characters are flawed to some degree or the other, but all have some redeeming qualities – except one.
Times have changed, but people with Pappy’s warped vision still exist in our society today.The reviewer summed up her criticism by saying that in the final analysis the novel failed because nobody “changed,” and therefore what was the point?
When I saw she had a first novel, I put it on my TBR and there it remained until as a New Year's resolution I decided to read at least two book from my TBR each month.
Two strong women, one white, one black, different circumstances but both with a strong love for their families.
This was her first novel and it was fantastic, her second was very good albeit very different, but still addressed the many ills and unfairness in society whether in the past or the future.
Like The Help or The Kitchen House, this is one of those books I guess which will continue to resonate, and linger in the mind.
It's told by each character in turn, so we hear lots of different voices as the tale progresses, and we can witness the way they see the events unfolding.
I could hear Hap and Florence and it was like they were talking directly to me.To me Ronsel is the real hero and I hope that all the "could have beens" at the end turn out to become reality for this exceptional young man.If you are looking for a beautiful, human, intelligent and gripping read, look no further.
Second, the haunted struggles of men who came home from WWII and couldn't make a place for themselves back among their own people.
The combination of these difficulties causes the buildup of tensions that lead to some gruesome and heart-wrenching consequences.This story is told through the alternating voices of six characters.
As you get further into the book, the pieces all come together until the people are all telling their part of the same story.Change comes slowly, but it does come.
I kept thinking of how the Southern crackers in this story would have guffawed loudly if anyone had told them that sixty years later we would elect a bi-racial president.
This is a great southern work of fiction. I loved how the book is narrated by a host of narrators. I liked the surprises. I enjoyed being so mad about circumstances but then hopeful of others. Just an overall well-rounded book that I highly recommend.Note:movie due November 2017
Mudbound: Hillary Jordan's Debut Novel Hillary Jordan, 2011 JAMIE"Henry and I dug the hole seven feet deep. Any more shallower and the corpse was liable to come rising up during the next big flood. Howdy boys! Remember me? The thought of it kept us digging even after the blisters on our palms had burst, re-formed and burst again. Every shovelful was an agony--the old man getting in his last licks. Still, I was glad of the pain. It shoved away thoughts and memories."  Henry and Jamie McAllan are
Big brother Henry, a veteran of World War One, and a hard working member of the Corp of Army Engineers, marries city bred Laura of Memphis, Tennessee.
Pappy is a curmudgeonly old man who tyrannizes Laura and terrifies his granddaughters.It's off to Henry's farm which he wants to name "Fair Fields." Laura who quickly learns the farm floods every time the river rises dubs it "Mud Bound." Not only does the land flood, but their home is cut off from the nearest town.Jordan deftly weaves the lives of the McAllan and Jackson families into a riveting story.
Mudbound is told initially by Jamie, Laura, Henry, Hap, and Florence.
Two men return to a Mississippi Delta farm from WW11, Jamie the younger brother of Henry McAllan who owns the ramshackle place (dubbed by his wife Laura as Mudbound) and Ronsel Jackson a young black man whose family works as their sharecroppers.
All of the members of these two families, notably the hateful old McAdams Patriarch Pappy, and Florence the strong black Matriarch, will soon be drawn into the life changing drama.
This is a really good though heart wrenching, work of historical fiction which takes on some very tough issues such as those faced by black men who fought in the war and returned home to find themselves still in a racially unaccepting nation.
A wonderful story, although very distressing, also, very true, as I grew up in the south in the 50's and 60's and I understand what was happening.
This is a story of a friendship that was destroyed by out of control people.
But I loved the way the story was written and how much you cared about all the characters.
This book is being made into a Netflix movie to be shown in November, that is why I wanted to go ahead and read this book.
I've had it on my Amazon Wish List for quite a while so glad I finally read it.
Unputdownable...spellbinding and sometimes, horrifying. Often, I would hesitate to read on because I knew something disturbing and tragic was about to happen. I was reminded of Sidney Poitier's movie from the 1960's, In the Heat of the Night and other similar, racially provocative and consciousness-raising films from that period. A compelling novel, written with eloquence. I look forward to other books by this author.
Fotograma do filme Mudbound realizado por Dee Rees”A Lamas do Mississipi”, no original ”Mudbound” (2008) é o primeiro romance da escritora norte-americana Hillary Jordan (n.
1963) – uma primeira obra literária que tem tudo o que mais me fascina ou o que mais me atraí na literatura contemporânea do séc.
XXI.
"É isso que significa amar alguém: darmos o que podemos enquanto tiramos o que devemos." (Pág.
257); Mas há mais…Tenho "urgência" em ver o filme realizado por Dee Rees - trailer é espectacular...https://youtu.be/fF98AJFORhM
Such a powerful and incredibly moving novel, quite unforgettable. I recommend you read the book then watch the film, both are intense yet wonderful!This story is of two southern families that live through unbearable circumstance during the Jim Crow era. So many struggles and hardships abound that had my heart aching. And near the ending that brutal scene with Ronsel will haunt me for a while. This book is gut wrenching and has highly sensitive issues that will bring tears to your eyes. Loved this and highly recommend. I rated all the stars.
This is a fast paced moving novel with several narrators. Set in the deep south immediately after WWII, the story examines the lives of hardworking farmers, passionate wives, members of the KKK, and the returning soldiers both black and white. The characters are fascinating and seemed real to me. I didn't want to see the story end.
What a book! Much enjoyed. Bravo! The audio version is terrific!
Beautifully written and a compelling page-turner. The audiobook has alternating narrators and all do an outstanding job in their portrayals.
I wonder how I can possibly say that I loved reading this book .
Alternating narratives of all of the main characters but one , was an exceptional way to get to know them and their inner thoughts .
The only main character that doesn't have his say is the despicable Pappy and rightly so .
I don't think I would have been able to tolerate reading what he thought .
I guess I loved the book because it drew me in and I felt that the author had truths to tell as heart wrenching as they were .
A fast paced read set in post WW2 1946 on a Mississippi farm depicting the on-going struggles of a black American family and the horrid prejudices and brutality they had to endure despite the friendship that grows between Jamie of the McAllan family and Ronsel, son of their black sharecroppers.Great debut novel for Hillary Jordan! A real page-turner that was over too soon.(view spoiler)[Glad Pappy got his just reward, but wish the rest of the KKK would have been punished too. (hide spoiler)]
4.5 enthusiastic stars! What a great read. When you have read for as long as I have, certain subject matter becomes wearisome. So I was really surprised how much I loved this book. And because she sums it up perfectly, I share Eleanor's wonderful review.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
