https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/697251.Martian_Time_Slip
Dick provides a snapshot of social, political and economic life on Mars.
But more than just a science fiction narrative about a colonist life on Mars, PKD provides close glimpses into the lives of the colonists and describes how human nature does not change.
Like other great PKD books, I am left amazed that he was not more popular in his own lifetime.
He was truly a great science fiction writer, one of the greatest, but also transcended the genre as a good writer in any venue.
Since the story is too vintage PKD over-the-top crazy and convoluted for any simple overview or synopsis, allow me instead to highlight a number of the many colorful characters and themes: Jack Bohlen – An electronics machine repairman living with his wife and son out in the Martian desert, living very much like thousands of middle class suburban families back on earth.
Manfred Steiner - A ten-year-old autistic boy living at Camp Ben-Gurion along with other "anomalous children." Manfred neither speaks nor interacts with others; rather, he lives in his own world of highly accelerated time which enables him to see the future, an ability that makes him a valuable commodity for an enterprising land speculator like Arnie Kott.
The only thing missing from this book is GOD, but Dick will delve into that later in his career.
He is starting to flirt with the surface with the mystical practices of the Bleekmen (Martians).I was especially taken with the time he spent on autism and schizophrenia.
This book was written in the 60s just as Autism was starting to be distinguished and separated from schizophrenia, (due to some poor phrasing in the 40s).
They turn away from mere things, which one may handle and turn to practical use; they turn inward to meaning.
Its tiny pin-head red eye peeped past the loose rim of her unseeing eye, and then withdrew; after that the insect squirmed, making the dead eye of the woman bulge, and then, for an instant, the insect peered through the lens of her eye…Dick's rather flat, humourless style (four ‘eye’s in one sentence there!) works well for him in these passages, coming across as a kind of sickly, morbid repetition, a sense of picking at the same few concepts over and over again until they bleed.
Manfred, an autistic/schizophrenic boy in the book, perceives most people as moving in high-speed blurs, practically teleporting from one location to another, and talking high-speed gibberish; hence his sense of isolation from the rest of humanity.The story set in a colonized Mars, but not a realistic Mars as depicted by books like  Red Mars and  The Martian.
Dick was not interested in the terraforming process of Mars to make it livable for humans, he is more interested in Mars as a setting for the characters with mental issues.After listening to Dr. Glaub’s theory, ruthless businessman Arnie Kotts has the notion that a schizophrenic should be able to access information about the future as their distorted perception of time should logically give them precognition ability.
And yet the only character in the story who can communicate with autistic boy Manfred Steiner, whose powers of seeing the future and affecting reality are central to the story, is a highly-educated but bitter Bleekman (aboriginal) named Heliogabalus (apparently a reference to Syro-Roman sun god Elagabalus).
He is a master at pulling the rug out from under his characters' realities, and the readers' as well, and plunging us into his own introspective, humorous, ironic, and paranoid vision of the worlds we all inhabit.
You really scare me sometimes, Phil.
This one begins and ends by concerning itself with a bevy of topics and characters: unions, autism, the education system, family life, marital infidelity, gentrification, small-time businessmen, racism, aborigines, mental illness in children, and etcetera.
Martian Time-Slip begins and ends as a story about modern suburban life, and the fact that it takes place on Mars hardly matters.
The struggle between conforming to society's idea of reality or falling forever inward into a vacuous psychotic black hole:"Now I can see what psychosis is: the utter alienation of perception from the objects of the outside world, especially the objects which matter: the warmhearted people there.
The gubbish ran down the walls as I sat,as I sat the gubble gubble.I looked down at the gubbish where my fingers used to be, as I sat finger bones shiny with gubbish click clacked on a rusty metal framework,coloured wires slithering in and out of it like lustful worms.As I sat down to write my gubbish reviewI gubbled, I saw the wet bones click clacking on dirty metal.We're all gubbish in the end...-One of the more surreal books I've read by PKD - Awesome :)
2,5Este es probablemente el libro más flojo que he leído de K. Dick hasta la fecha, con este autor suele pasarme que todos los conceptos que explora y sus paranoias me flipan, pero lo que es el desarrollo de la historia y la descripción de los personajes me dejan un poco a medias, y en este además opino que hay demasiada paja para ser un libro tan corto. Le doy 3 estrellas y no 2 porque el final me ha gustado mucho.
They turn away from mere things, which one may handle and turn to practical use; they turn inward to meaning.
And if so, what will they be like, having glimpsed meaning?
I admire them.I truly hated the first 70-80 pages, it read like too much of the other Dick I've encountered: paranoia, despair, the disabled.
Martian Time-Slip then took a few flips and I admit I was dazzled.
People with autism are kept in a facility where the avarice of the elect leads them to exploit the segregated savants for purposes of time-travel.
It is almost quaint imagining organized labor having political sway in the future .
You read the wrong PKD novel, you feel as if they're all the same and you've got it covered.
Most of his novels do an incredible job of replicating the feeling of an acid or mushroom trip.
This one applies those techinques towards anxiety, something that Philip K Dick was afflicted with (I should say, in his case, extreme paranoia and likely symptoms of OCD).
Martian Time-Slip crept up on me and slapped me in the face like the best of them (Dr. Bloodmoney, Flow My Tears the Policeman Said, etc).
Dick's prose and character development is as poor as ever here, but the metaphysical ideas and social commentary as well as the storyline itself are so genius that I simply don't care. I first read this when I was in my twenties and devouring all the Dick I could find. I enjoyed it even more this time around. Short, strange and surreal and pretty perfect for what it is: Classic American Science Speculative Fiction.
A great read and, so far, one of the most accessible PKD novels I've read. It only gets weird and tripy late in the story, but when it happens you'd better buckle your seatbelt because it is WEIRD.
Dick craving, which is what I was having when I picked it up.Martian Time-Slip is the depressing story of an autistic child on Mars with abnormal perception of time being exploited as a future seer by wealthy Union leader Arnie Kott, who's looking to claim land on a mountain range that's going to increase in value when the UN builds apartments on it.
He's also good at building righteous anger towards those being used and exploited without being preachy or making a Point of it, because his Manifred and his Heliogabalus (Kott's Bleekman servant) are compassionately drawn in their outsiderdom.
La fantascienza è solo un pretesto per indagare la realtà, per stanarla e rappresentarla nelle sue molteplici e oscure pieghe.
Dick stilisticamente non è perfetto, ha dei difetti (è punk), ma la forza delle sue idee è talmente grande da oscurarli.
C’è sì un protagonista, che è Jack Bohlen, ma il suo punto di vista non influenza più di tanto gli altri personaggi che interagiscono in modo grottesco e hanno pensieri o dicono cose strane, ma per questo risultano più verosimili.
The plot centers around an autistic boy who might be able to manipulate time, an unscrupulous narcissist (very well written, this character) and his schemes to make use of this ability, and the people caught in the crossfire, including the protagonist, Jack, who is a repairman who has had a psychotic episode at one point in his life, and therefore, is called upon to try to communicate with the boy, because he has partial understanding of how the boy thinks.Therein lies the first major flaw of the book, though perhaps it’s not something that anyone else would notice, since schizophrenia (which is the word that was used for Jack’s condition) and autism still mystify most people.
For in this novel, everyone is pretty sure that the autistic are the way they are because they experience time profoundly differently from the rest of us.
To the autistic, in this novel, the rest of us are sped up like a life-long time-lapse film.
And Manfred lives it all day long, if the Bleekmen are to be believed.How all of this comes together to blow up in the lives of Arnie Kott and Jack Bohlen is ponderous and depressing and terrifying and awe-inspiring and, as is usually the case with PKD, a complete joy to read.
He knew sf should often take place in outer space, but whereas other novelists placed their narratives in the 22, 23, or some unimaginable distant future, in the novels Dick wrote in the 1950's and 1960's, he thought that 40 or so years was plenty of time for man to start populating the universe.
Much of the plot hinges on Manfred, an autistic child who becomes a test subject for the main character's experiments with communication and ultimately time travel.And let's not forget the Beakman, the remnants of the Martian race who are now reduced to wandering the deserts or working in the homes of wealthy earthlings.
Questionable psychology and a Mars settlement more like Northern California than a NASA colony.
PKD writes a good narrative that varies with his characters, but while it works with A Scanner Darkly, this SF Masterworks novel seems just out of sync to me.One must first look past the non-colony aspect of the Martian residents - Bradbury's stories helped with that.
More by far than any other PKD novel I have read.A one star rating is "I didn't like it", and while that covers many aspects, it doesn't cover the whole.
The two star "It was just okay" fits fine - there are better choices out there.
This is the second work by Phillip K. Dick I have read, the first being The Man In The High Castle and I guess he is just not the writer for me. I had a terrible time getting through this book, It just did not hold my attention. I considered DNFing this at several points but stuck with it. The writing is good, but the plot was so slow, that by the time it really started to pick up the pace, I was completely uninterested in what was going on.
Dick book could have a plot about the greedy, power-hungry head of a waterworks union attempting to use a schizophrenic electronics repairman to communicate with a mute autistic boy who may be the key to preventing the U.N. from building cheap housing on the Franklin Delano Roosevelt mountains and threatening his strangle-hold on the water supply.
Everything revolves around Manfred Steiner, the son of Jack's neighbor, a mute autistic boy whose haunting visions of his and Mar's future may be the key for Kott to hold onto his power.
In Martian Time-Slip, this very greed of land and overlord mentality brings down this man from his pedestal of power to crude death.
Arnie wants to exploit this capability and recruits Jack, who suffers from schizophrenia, to help him achieve it.Dick mixes a reality that we are all aware of and can easily relate to with surreal elements of fiction that only enhances flawed nature of humans and the righteousness with which they can fight back against their own kind.
Arnie becomes a victim of his own crime, caught in the time-slip designed by Manfred.
I especially enjoyed the repetition of dialogue in order to emphasize the same scene occurring again (albeit from a different perspective/perception).
The time manipulation aspects of the writing, and the twists that keep the reader not being able to truly tell what is the reality of things is simply brilliant.
The interspersed humor throughout is great especially when used to counterbalance the dark aspects of the story.
I especially loved the dark aspects of Manfred's world.
The Gubble Gubble term used to convey something so dark and ominous is brilliant.
I also really enjoyed the differences between the bleekmen (inhabitants of Mars) and the Earthling characters.
Of course we have to lock them up with the other nuts, because that's a symptom of schizophrenia, if you happen to know what that means.""(..) it is the savage within the man.""Sure, it's the reversion to primitive ways of thought, but so what, if you can read the future?" -p.80"Entire psychoanalysis is a vainglorious foolish-ness.""How zat, Helio?""Question they never deal with is, what to remold sick person like.
I see a lot of reviews stating this is one of Dick’s more accessible books and perhaps that’s the case, I haven’t read enough of them to make that determination yet; but I thought it was really good. It could have almost been set on our home planet with the land speculation and whatnot. All about relationships and interpersonal skills and of course the frequent Dick theme of precognition. Overall a solid read.
The subtext of the conversation was about the lack of human dignity that seems to go hand-in-hand with the rise of electronic communication and online relationships – people are less likely to communicate difficult, painful things face-to-face because technology has made it so much easier to do it from a distance, so use a website to dump your partner and you never have to deal with the real world pain of the person you once loved.
I characterized it in an early status update as a novel of science fictional suburban ennui, and it is that, but one that explores the shattering psychological consequences of the lives people are expected to lead in the modern world.

Essentially, this is a future where mental illness is even more feared and reviled than it is now (and dare I say I think more than it was in the 60s when the book was originally published).Martians are humanoid and their skin tone is "dark as night." They are degraded and derided by nearly everyone.
The plot requires the Autism and Schizophrenia ideas, as well as the persistent presence of the Martians and how people treat them.
His theory of autism is probably as good as any other proposed today, and his idea of psychiatrists who don't try to cure their patients anxieties, but instead offer to take the patient's place in anxiety provoking situations is very creative.Like all those Superman TV shows from the 50's and 60's where Superman spends his time fighting thugs and petty criminals instead of super villains, Philip K Dick's characters find themselves engaged in the 50's version of Peyton Place and The Godfather, smuggling goods to Mars (imaging a can of caviar for $5!) and coveting each other's wives.I would say that this was not his best effort and move on.
