https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40490.The_Valley_of_Vision
She notes that her free-form prayers often devolve into narcissism (this has definitely been my experience), but that the formal, written prayers refocus her on God. This book is a great example of the benefit of written prayers.
My own free-form prayers often send me down a rabbit hole of my own personal worries and burdens--worries and burdens that I am right to share with God. But I think every one of the prayers in this book contains the Gospel, and when I read them, I am preaching the Gospel to myself.
So when I cannot find the words or the heart to pray on my own, I can pray these written prayers.
This incredible volume is so theologically dense that it will take a lifetime of readings to fathom its depths.
This is a book of prayers written by anonymous Puritans from centuries ago.
The prayers are short (2 pages apiece in my edition) and one could easily read the entire book in a few days, but there is so much to ponder and meditate on that I limited myself to no more than 6 pages per reading session.
This is a book that I will be coming back to time and time again to be refreshed, convicted, schooled and made joyful by these bygone words from precious saints.
This book is a collection of excerpts from different Puritan writers arranged as prayers and organized by category.
I only wish I knew which Puritans wrote them as the book doesn't tell you.
Here are some of my favorite prayers:May my words and works allure others to the highest walks of faith and love.Teach me the happy art of attending to things temporal with a mind intent on things eternal.Make thy cross the ground of all my comfort,the liveliness of all my duties,the sum of all thy gospel promises,the comfort of all my afflictions,the vigor of my love, thankfulness, graces,the very essence of my religion.May I always know that a clean heart full of goodness is more beautiful than the lily, that only a clean heart can sing by night and by day, that such a heart is mine when I abide at Calvary.I think this book could enrich your prayer life!
It's amazing that Puritan prayers from hundreds of years ago are still so applicable and powerful in modern times. My favorite of the collection is "Morning Dedication," which ends this way: "May I speak each word as if my final word, and walk each step as my final one. If my life should end today, let this be my best day."
Good. First read it in 2002. Listened to an audio version of it narrated by Max McLean in 2015. That was good too. McLean's reading is good, although it sometimes borders on creepy. The Puritans represented are really solid. Their prayers sometimes veered into the predictably puritanical introspection, but there were many glorious stretches where they were doing nothing of the kind. There were many edifying phrases.
One of my favorite works! Putting words to prayers I cold only dream of praying. Immensely encouraging, challenging and inspirational!It took me a long time to work through it because the wealth of content was so deep.
One of the most influential books in shaping my walk with Christ over the past four years. Will continue to read and re-read... many jewels here.
The book I read, re-read and read again. My lifetime favorite. Stirs the soul and engages the affections.
This is a collection of prayers and meditations which the editor gleaned from Puritan writings. I picked this one up because I was doing a year-long study on prayer and was told this book contained good examples of prayers. The person who told me this was not wrong. The language used by the writers of these prayers was beautiful and gave me much to think on. In addition, I gathered many examples of how to incorporate Scripture into my prayer life. If you too are looking for ways to enhance your prayer life, I highly recommend this book.
I'm not sure if there is a more beautiful book of poetry in existance. The out pouring of love, adoration, begging for mercy, prayer for every element of life, brutal honesty found in these verses is enough to bring a sinner to tears. The praise of the Lord is uplifting. I found the whole thing to be both convicting and enriching of my prayer life. I can't recommend this book enough. Let it infuse your study time.
Unlike much of what is written for Christians these days, these passages rightly elevate God’s Word and works and the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, and keep a proper perspective of man and his dependence on the Lord for all he is and has.The title of the collection was taken from Isaiah 22 and was the inspiration for this introductory prayer by Bennett:"Lord, High and Holy, Meek and Lowly,"Thou hast brought me to the valley of vision, where I live in the depths but see thee in the heights; hemmed in by mountains of sin I behold thy glory.
A wonderful book of prayers.
Great quiet time companion book.The Valley of Vision Prayer:Lord, high and holy, meek and lowly, Thou hast brought me to the valley of vision, where I live in the depths but see Thee in the heights; hemmed in by mountains of sin I behold Thy glory.
Let me learn by paradox that the way down is the way up, that to be low is to be high, that the broken heart is the healed heart, that the contrite spirit is the rejoicing spirit, that the repenting soul is the victorious soul, that to have nothing is to possess all, that to bear the cross is to wear the crown, that to give is to receive, that the valley is the place of vision.
I find myself returning to this volume again and again.
But time passes and the journey continues and I must return for more.
Often I need a different spot because "you can't always get back the same way." That's okay because there are plenty of verses and prayers.
They are thematically linked but different enough to show me refreshing new scenes on my way to see Jesus.
I recommend this devotional book for passionate seekers of truth who desire beauty and require practicality in their spiritual pilgrimage.I approached these poems as devotions, but I was put off by the language.
A wonderful collection of prayers that I will without a doubt return to again and again.
Walking through this book has been a profound help in strengthening my own personal prayer life.
What Arthur Bennett has done in compiling these prayers and devotions has had a impact greater than he himself ever could have imagined.
Each prayer is steeped in Scripture, filled with sound doctrine and, most importantly, points to Christ.
The Puritans' writings have had an impact on my Christian life greater than anything else outside of the Bible, and these prayers and devotions are no exception.
Some books should be able to have a higher plane for ratings than ordinary books.
For example, the Bible should get "infinity" stars.
It's not even on a continuum with other literature.
And this book, while not in the same realm as the Bible, is so firmly grounded in Truth as to be more powerful than any other devotional work I have encountered.
I will never stop reading it as a part of my own devotional times--it is immensely rich with an intermingling of solid, deep doctrine and heartfelt emotion which so clearly reflects the faith of the Apostles and church fathers.
As the title says, this is a collection of old, yet very true and wise prayers by godly people from the Puritan period.They are profoundly insightful and heart stirring. These prayers wonderfully assist God's children in having deeper, more meaningful thoughts of our Lord.Anyone wishing to develop shallow, flipant beliefs would find this an uncomfortable read.This is a seriously healthy read which can be returned to many times over many years, and without disappointment.
Even though this is in my "read" section, it is a book that can be read over and over again. These prayers focus my own prayers heavenward and really give me a vision to see how to pray and what to pray. High recommended!
Read Nov 2010; Jan 2014; May 2017
Absolutely beautiful. Convicting and humbling. Every Christian should read take the time to read this.
Never did finish this, because I was using it as a daily devotional while it was borrowed from the library, which didn't work very well, because I ran out of time.
I kept meaning to get it back out, but haven't gotten around to it yet, as other devotional books I own have since captured my attention.
Still, I would like to finish it sometime, as it is quite inspiring.
I eventually started praying the prayers aloud, which was my first experience reading prewritten prayers, and I found the experience both calming and uplifting.
Top Shelf BookExcellent devotional resource
Very introspective. Very relevant to the times.
Some people do really love poetry, the experience of reading--feeling--a poem.
Second, all of the poems are by Puritans.
So the fact that this book is a collection of Puritan authors will be cause of rejoicing for some.
Essentially I want my review to carry across the point: DON'T BE INTIMIDATED; READ THIS BOOK!
The book is divided into ten thematic sections:1) Father, Son, and Holy Spirit2) Redemption and Reconciliation3) Penitence and Deprecation4) Needs and Devotions5) Holy Aspirations6) Approach to God7) Gifts of Grace8) Service and Ministry9) Valediction10) A Week's Shared PrayersSome sections are longer than others--feature more poems that is.
The Valley of Vision is an edited collection of prayers written by Puritan authors from the 16th to 19th centuries (e.g. Thomas Watson, Richard Baxter, John Bunyan, Isaac Watts, David Brainerd, C.H. Spurgeon).
This book has been a rich source of encouragement and food for my soul as I've read a prayer each day over the last 2 or 3 years.
(How can there possibly be 400 pages & 200 prayers in a such a little book?!
At times a prayer from the Valley of Vision has uplifted me when I've been discouraged, rebuked me when I've been apathetic or sobered me when I've been flippant.
Hardly a Christian prays such a well-conceived and considered prayer as a Puritan elder.
This collection is a treasure of good doctrine poured out to heaven with fervency.
Get a copy, enjoy it, and treasure it.Its really too bad that such a powerful book suffers from that bane of Christian media - poor aesthetics.
Such a book ought to be dignified with a typographic simplicity and not with a picture of some hilly dale that has nothing to do with prayer.
This is a great collection of prayers, from a passionate and praying people known as the Puritans (mainly 15th and 16th Century in England and New England).
The man who collected these prayers, Arthur Bennett, advises people in the "Introductory" section of the book that The Valley of Vision is "not intended to be read as a prayer manual.
The soul learns to pray by praying." He said that the prayers should be like "springboards for the individual’s own prayer subjects." That's what these prayers can do for you (as the did for me)...
Deep and reflective prayers, logically organized.
I used this as part of my daily time with God for nearly a year, and it has been nourishing to my soul.
Now I am going to start back at the beginning.
The only thing I dislike is not having the prayers attributed to their authors.
It sounds like the editor, Arthur Bennett, modified some, if not all, also.
I guess that practice was common in 1975, when it was first published, but I found myself wondering, was that the prayer of Richard Baxter?
Or David Brainerd?
John Bunyan?
Spurgeon?
Isaac Watts?
A collection of Puritan devotions that astounds and convicts with its range of diction, intensity of piety, and complete surrender of self to Christ as Lord. You will find something here for your own Christian life, even if it's a simple motivation to more diligently take advantage of the great gift that is prayer. On top of that, so many examples of a deliberate consideration of words offered to God is something that is desperately needed in our age of emotional, extemporaneous, and oft-times rambling public prayer.
The collection is well edited, with each prayer named and categorized helpfully and a brief bibliography. The final section is "A Week's Shared Prayers," which I've gone through several times. The prayers themselves are concise, well-organized, theologically rich, existentially powerful, and full of ardor for the knowledge of the Triune God. Often these prayers have stirred my affections and drawn out my own prayers to the God who, in the words of Torrance, is more to be adored than expressed.
If you are looking for a book to encourage, challenge, and inspire you in your walk with the Lord Jesus...this is a great book. The book is written by Puritans covering many different aspects of their walk with the Lord. It will inspire you to new heights in your prayer life, challenge you in your faith, and is a wonderful springboard to grow deeper in love with our Savior and God. I read this book cover to cover, and am reading through it again now, because it is well worth repeating it on a year to year basis.
