https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101001.The_Secret_of_Shadow_Ranch
As I began to read, I sensed something different in this fifth volume in the Nancy Drew mysteries.
This is the first book in the series where they are mentioned and become supporting characters.
Sure, she has her friends close at hand, but there is a feeling of more independence and tightened focus on Nancy's sleuthing abilities.
I found this complex mystery to be slightly more sinister than the previous ones Nancy has solved, but perhaps that is due to the nature of the ranch scene and the rugged characters.
In this 5th adventure of brilliant girl detective Nancy Drew, there are phantom horses, cute cowboys, rockslides and apple pies - all you'd expect from a good Nancy adventure. My daughter might already be outgrowing these stories - her rapidly maturing 8-year old mind is already deep into Harry Potter - but I still loved reading this little classic to her with wild horse rides, square dancing (is that even still a thing?), and hijinks galore.
I've been trying to read them more or less in parallel, but that was pretty much impossible here - they're basically two distinct stories with different plots entirely.In the 1930s version, there are two main mysteries - what happened to Alice's father, and what's the deal with the little blonde girl who lives with the mysterious old women in the mountain shack.
There are a couple of wilderness excursions, but not nearly as many, nor does Nancy do anything particularly butch - even the flood rescue is credited entirely to her "water horse." Obligatory shopping and cooking scenes are inserted, and much is made of the girls' clothes and hair at every occasion.These are basically not the same book at all, despite the title in common, and the 1930s version is by far the more interesting one.
(I can't find my TWO copies of The Hidden Staircase (#2), so haven't re-read and reviewed it yet.)This mystery, considering it's the world of Nancy Drew, is well-written, and contains clues, evidence, and a storyline that seems more natural than the others and less 'forced.' Nancy does move from one dangerous situation to the next, but there are interludes where she drinks tea, sings cowboy songs, bakes a cake, goes for a horseback ride and does 'in between stuff' which writers often stick in a book to give the reader a breather between dangerous, exciting, life-threatening stuff.
I would love to see another edition of this book.
In the order of the series, this is number five, but Ned Nickerson, Nancy's longtime and long suffering boyfriend gets several mentions.
Too bad he doesn't make his first appearance until book seven!
I have the "purple" editions, the double editions that were published two books to each volume as a collectible set.
The books have, over the years, gone through a lot of edits to "update" them.
I'd love to know if this quirk is particular to a certain edition (ie, the editors knew Ned was Nancy's boyfriend, so they inserted mentions of him, when chronologically they hadn't met).
This was pretty lame. It could barely hold my attention.
A fun mystery that takes Nancy Drew to a ranch with a phantom horse mystery. Although I have to admit that my favorite character is Chief the dog (who politely asked Nancy if he could ride on a horse with her, to get across the river... too cute!).
I was surprised when told that Bess and George were invited to the ranch, and Nancy "easily convinced" them to invite her too.
The adults act like kids, turning to "the young sleuth" every five minutes for advice and help--they have been totally at the mercy of the unknown manipulators of events till she showed up!
I must have missed an installment somewhere, as Nancy now has Bess and George in tow everywhere and mention is made of her soppy ol' boyfriend.
The actual sleuthing is mostly packed into the last quarter or so of the book, and the scene with the bad guys was laughably bad.
Nancy Drew arrives in Phoenix , Arizona , eagerly looking forward to a fun-filled vacation at Shadow Ranch , but abruptly finds herself involved in a baffling mystery .
Suspecting that a treasure hidden by Valentine may be at the root of the Shado Ranch mystery , Nancy undertakes a challenging search , aided by her friends Bess Marvin and George Fayne .
For those who enjoy a suspenful thriller , Nancy Drew's first Western adventure makes truly fascinating readingThe Secret of Shadow Ranch
A patron let me borrow a copy of the book in its original 1931 form, and it was such a fun throwback. I particularly liked how when Nancy and Co. couldn't get a man to accompany them on their hike into the mountains, their aunt thought they should at least take a revolver to keep them safe. And spoiler alert...Nancy ends up shooting an animal that is now on the endangered species list because she is one badass beeyotch.
Wow, I somehow never read this Nancy Drew canon entry in my youth, but I loved the HerInteractive computer game based on it and this book definitely did justice to my high expectations. Wild West roping, riding, treasure, danger, a great background history love story, and phantoms! I'm barely started in my series read project so I feel it's entirely too soon to name a favorite, but I bet this will be a serious contender. 13-year-old me would have been crazy about this.
Nancy Drew leaves the big city, but uncovers a mystery in the Arizona wilderness. Another great addition to this book series.
3.5 stars Bit of an old-style western feel to this one. Took me a bit to get into as well. It just didn't grab me very well. I felt that Nancy was sometimes too suspicious in some ways but missed other clues. Alice annoyed me a bit as well so that didn't help. Luckily the story does bit up and was actually a bit more involved than past books which was nice.
Nancy Drew is amazing and sassy as always !! 😁💕 The secret of shadow ranch had a Western Gothic feel to it with the ghosts ,forbidden love between the sheriffs daughter and an outlaw involved ! It's one of my favorites now .
Nancy's engaged friend Helen Corning is gone and the cousins George and Bess have replaced her.
Also we hear for the first time of a boyfriend - Ned. Those who have read other Nancy Drew books know that George, Bess and their boyfriends along with Ned, become mainstays later.
There is a second mystery - George and Bess's uncle is missing from the bank where he is president.
When the dust clears, everyone loves Nancy and she's a bit wistful because the case is done and she doesn't know when she'll find another one - but she can finish knitting her father's sweater.
I'd never read a Nancy Drew, because, you know, I was a boy and it would have been unthinkable and all.
But when I came across this original text version of #5, I knew the universe was speaking to me.Nancy and...introducing Bess and George (so I'm told), and a cousin Alice go to a ranch for the summer (several day train trip to "the west") and go more than a third of the book not even knowing what mystery there was to solve.
solves another huge mystery in the last 5 pages while she's popping a zit or whatever.What makes the original text worth it: - Nancy Drew, gunslinger.
I have several Nancy Drew mysteries on my book shelf and I've read each of them many times (to the point where, as I am reading it, I pretty much know exactly what's coming next).
She probes him about some question or another and he says, "Look, Anita, I didn't bring you down here to act like Nancy Drew!"You tell me that's not FREAKY!11018Re-read and finished today.
Having read this one first and then the "revised edition" I can see that it changed way more then just some editing.In this one it is about a kidnapped child, in the revised it is about a shadowy horse.
Big editing, right?
(Like chop out the whole plot and write a new one) Both are good, but while the older is Imo superior, the later was just okay.
I think Nancy changed too much, she doesn't seem as goody-two-shoes as she does in the later version.
And I like it when Nancy has some faults!
This book was where Bess and George were first introduced even though no references were made to them in the first four books.I liked the setting of the story, in which they solve a mystery in a ranch in Arizona owned by Bess and George's aunt and uncle, but the actual mystery didn't really do anything for me.
I thought it was laughable how naive writers in the 1930's were about Native American and Latino culture.
Nancy and her friends dressed up in "Indian" costumes, i.e. imitation dresses from Native American culture.
I thought they updated these books to fit modern times??

This book was a very good book about Nancy and her friends going on vacation but stumble upon a mystery and end up in the middle of it trying to solve it. I love these bacause Nancy is always geting into a mystery and danger but always finds a way out of it like all good detectives do. I love the whole Nancy Drew series bacause I love mysteries and this one is awesome as well. I love mysteries and think Nancy always shows good perservirence and never gives up.
A Quickie ReviewGood for what it is...but not as good as the other entries in this series, in my opinion.Score: 3/5
I read the 1930s version. Nancy carries a revolver and shoots a lynx and a rattlesnake. She clearly hates Bess as with all Nancy Drew books. It was fascinating to see a glimpse into literature of the 30s and even more fascinating that the 1950s version had an entirely different plot. This was about a little girl being kidnapped and the 50s version is about a ghost horse?
I just picked the books for our summer neighborhood book group. The theme is -Female Sherlock, and what better way to start than Nancy? It has been so long (I refuse to say how many years) since I read one of these. Fun to go back and see their appeal. 2nd month will be Enola Holmes and 3rd month will be an Elizabeth Peters novel. Should be lots of fun.
1931 versionNancy and her gal pals learn to ride horses and on the following days get lost on the dangerous trails five million times.
(Combustion tool, Container, Cordage, Cover, Cutting tool, and Compass) (And yes, the compass had been invented 2000 years ago, so they had No excuse not to have one.)Also, they meet a super nice little girl who for some reason is being forced to live with a mean ol' hag.
(ooooh, mysterious.)1957 versionNancy and her gal pals meet cute cowboys and go to a dance.
The menu includes "tacos"—italicized in the book because they are exotic delicacies, and an "ice-cold watermelon" that they won as a prize for dancing the best.The mystery is a glowing horse.
I thought it was a really good book because, it was a little scary but not to intense. I also found out that there was two problems: Alice's Father has gone missing and A ghost horse keeps on appearing and causing mass destruction. Come join Nancy Drew and solve this mind-boggling mystery in The Secret Of Shadow Ranch!!!!!!!!
Decided to read something light and fun and Nancy Drew is exactly where I went. I quite enjoyed this one.
4 stars for the nostalgia factor, minus one for the lame mystery and outdated references to "Indians" and "squaws."
Does Nancy ever get scared? About anything?Probably not... She'd probably keep her cool in the middle of a freakin' shark attack.
As the girls arrive at the ranch Nancy convinces that Rawleys that she will be able to solve the mystery before times runs out for them all.
With her friends by her side Nancy sets out to find who’s really after the ranch, will she find them before they find her?I love Nancy Drew she one of those girls I was able to relate with as I was growing up.
It’s been ages since I've read a Nancy Drew and happened to be craving a clean quick mystery.
I always suggest Nancy Drew to younger girl readers because I feel like they will connect with her and want to read more of the series.
