https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6480781-open
The second piece of information that made me want to read this book was Jara's review: "After finishing this I appreciate Agassi more as a human than a tennis player." That got me really curious.
After reading this book, I respect him most for his tenacity and for his ability to thrash his way forward even though he has no idea who he is as a person for much of the book.
He's (obviously) a formidable competitor, but it's interesting to see what traits, regardless of whether he liked tennis or not, helped him move forward.
Why should anyone at all, tennis fan or not, care about Andre Agassi's life, let alone buy his book?
And at the end of the day, like Andre', we all hope to chalk up more wins than losses and to have left it all on the court, to not have been able to fight harder than we did.
I recall many times, watching Andre play on the tennis court, sometimes winning, sometimes losing.
It's almost as if he's looking at himself along with us as he speaks about his views and thoughts on his storied career and life, personally and professionally.
Open was too long but it was entertaining. It was sold as a tell-all but didn't feel as though he said anything groundbreaking besides that he was insecure about basically everything in his life. He only does drugs once and he was pressured into doing so, which is very different than what the media made this book out to be when it was released. Don't read this book if you think you are going to be blown away, but do read it if you love Andre and want to know more about him.
While browsing my next buy, I had stumbled upon this one a number of times, before I finally decided to buy and read it last week.
Time and money well spent.
It is one of a confused, rebellious and an ever evolving man in search of himself, who by the way, plays great tennis.
Second, it is also not a blow-by-blow account of tennis matches.
It is a narrative of his innermost thoughts process at moments that affected him; and not just the ones on the tennis court.
After reading the book, I say he is a Phoenix, burning himself down and rising from his own ashes.
Contributing to that personal opinion decline was observing him "behind the scenes" when I dabbled as a tennis writer/photographer for in the mid-/late-1990s, which now we know was among his most troubled personal and professional times.So while I went into this book with a somewhat rehab'd personal opinion of Agassi, by the end of it I found most of my warm and fuzzy feelings about him had come undone (and sadly even wife Steffi Graf also suffers some collateral damage).
টেনিসের বছর শুরু হয় সূরযের সাথে সাথে পথচলায়। বছরের শুরুতে অসটরেলিয়ান ওপেন, পথ চলতে চলতে এশিয়া পার হয়ে এসে ফরেঞচ ওপেন, সেখান থেকে ইংলযানডে গিয়ে উইমবলডন এবং শেষ হয় ইউ,এস ওপেন দিয়ে। সূরযের সাথে তাল মিলিয়ে চলতে চলতে টেনিস খেলাটাও হয়ে উঠেছে সূরযের মতোই নিঃসঙগ। টেনিস চূড়ানত একাকীতবের খেলা; সাড়ে চার, পাঁচ ঘণটা বা তার চেয়েও বেশি সময় পাশে কেও থাকেনা, এমনকি কোচের সাথে কথা বলার-ও অনুমতি নেই। দৌড়বিদরা তার পরতিযোগীকে পাশে পায়, বকসাররা পায় রিং এর কোনায় তার এসিসটেনটকে বা সপরশ করতে পারে পরতিপকষকে, কিনতু টেনিসে
সাত বছর বয়সে খেলায় কার সাথে কত স্কোর লাইন ছিল কিংবা কোন একটা নির্দিষ্ট ম্যাচের আগে কত মিনিট ধরে গোসলে ছিল বা কত মিনিট স্ট্রেচারে শুয়ে ছিল সে বর্ণনা পড়ে চিন্তা আসে, আগাসী ছাড়া আর কে ঘড়ি ধরে গোসল করে?এই ছোট খাট জিনিসগুলো মন থেকে বাদ দিতে পারলেই নিশ্চিত থাকেন, আগাসীর সাথে বইয়ের পাতায় চমৎকার কিছু সময় কাটাতে যাচ্ছেন। বই পড়া শুরু করলেই আমি নিশ্চিত বলতে পারি যে বইয়ের প্রথম চ্যাপ্টার শেষ করেই ইউটিউবে সার্চ করে আগাসী আর বাগদাতীসের ইউ,এস ওপেনের ম্যাচের হাইলাইটস দেখতে শুরু করবেন, এবং প্রতি দুই/তিন চ্যাপ্টার পড়ার পর পর ইউটিউবে এসে কিছু হাইলাইটস দেখাটা অভ্যাসে দাঁড়িয়ে যাবে।টেনিস বুঝতে হবে না, আগাসীকে পছন্দ না করলেও হবে, বায়োগ্রাফী যদি ভালো না লাগে তবুও সমস্যা নাই, ফিকশন হিসেবে চিন্তা করে পড়লেও ‘ওপেন’ একটি মন্ত্রমুগ্ধ করে রাখার মতো ফিকশন। লেখনীর কথা বললে দীর্ঘদিন এই বই ছিল নিউইয়র্ক টাইমসের বেস্ট সেলার, ২০১০ সালে জয় করে নেয় ব্রিটিশ স্পোর্টস বুকস এওয়ার্ড।স্পোর্টস বায়োগ্রাফী হিসেবে নিঃসন্দেহে এখন পর্যন্ত আমার পড়া সেরা বই ‘ওপেন’। চাইলে বই থেকে শ’খানেক কোটেশন তুলে দেয়া যেতো, মাত্র একটা দিলাম - “It's no accident, I think, that tennis uses the language of life.
I'm not sure I can objectively explain it, but I laughed, I nearly cried, my palms sweated, I was just riveted (ask my wife).
It is such an emotional ride--perhaps only 0.01% of what it's like to actually be a professional athlete--that every free moment I had I wanted to return to Andre-world.I can't tell you how many times I laughed out loud while reading this.
How open, honest and sincere the book feels.
I never had to guess who he was referring to at any point.
I can't explain it, but it probably comes back to how perfectly written the book is.
In case you didn't know (and if you don't know then I probably need to post Yuzu-stuff again) I'm a huge sports fan.
And just to be clear and completely honest: I'm the kind of fan who wakes up at 7 on a Sunday to watch a competion with an unreliable streaming.
I'm the kind of fan who plans to stay up 'til 3 a.m. to watch the Olympics this year.I shout at the tv.
I could sum up all the reasons why you should give Open a chance anyway with a single quote:“It's no accident, I think, that tennis uses the language of life.
It's a book about life.
Perché è ciò che dà senso alla tua vita e contemporaneamente ti impedisce di viverne una.
Quando poi riuscirà a far entrare nella sua vita qualcosa di più importante del tennis: delle persone, diventerà finalmente un uomo.
Mai amato particolarmente il tennis e Agassi non è mai stato il 'mio' tennista, ma qui lo sport è uno sfondo, echi alla Infinite Jest per quella che è in realtà un'appassionante storia di guerra, ossessione e dipendenza raccontata da chi l'ha faticosamente combattuta e vinta (e scritta benissimo da un premio Pulitzer).
I am not into tennis at all, but read this book back to back with Lang Lang's memoires, "Journey of a Thousand Miles".
Here are the stories of two men whose childhoods were taken away from them by their ambitious fathers who wanted their children to become "Number One".
Once rich an famous, both men have done so much for younger generations, one through his charter school, the other through his foundation.
I must say that I found Agassi's book very captivating, thanks to Moehringer' superb writing style, and learned a thing or two about tennis as well!
Sarà che a pane e tennis ci sono cresciuta, sarà che moltissimi degli incontri raccontati nel libro li ho visti in TV (e sì, lo ammetto, Pete Sampras era il mio idolo) ma questo libro mi è entrato dentro come pochi altri.
Ricordo i pomeriggi sul divano con mio padre a guardare le finali di Roland Garros, degli US Open, di qualsiasi torneo trasmettessero all'epoca (non c'era SKY e dovevi sempre sperare che la RAI ti facesse un favore!) e ammetto che non ho mai tifato per Agassi: sempre troppo polemico, troppo esagerato, troppo sopra le righe del bon ton tennistico ma anche con un tipo di gioco violento, che nulla aveva in comune con l'eleganza di Sampras..
No soy seguidora de tenis ni fan de las "biografías/memorias" y demás géneros que se centran únicamente en la vida de una persona. Dicho esto, las memorias de Agassi me han encantado, fascinado y enganchado a partes iguales. Hay tenis, sí, pero también emoción, sensibilidad, lucha, amor... todos aquellos estados en los que uno pasa en la vida, pero teniendo en cuenta la presión de ser un personaje público y con una carrera limitada por la edad. Todo lo importante ocurre cuando aún está intentando forjarse como persona, como hombre.Una lectura muy muy recomendable.
This book kept me awake at night. I felt compelled to finish it in 2 days ("straight sets" maybe? - not my fault for the metaphor).I might as well add that I was surprised to find out that Agassi fundamentally hates tennis and that he was an underachiever - he could have done (much) better. The way his father forced him to train as a little boy and the life he led as a tennis pro were also very interesting to know.
But I kept that in mind, as you can read.Now, the same fact that, back in 1994, my friend Amir (owner of an Iranian and final "i" stressed surname himself) told me something on Andre Agassi and I knew who that guy was means something.One year before our teens, Amir and I were all but into tennis.
I knew the name of Andre Agassi, but didn't pick a part.After learning that the surname Agassi was of Iranian origin, I didn't care a bit about tennis for a couple of years.
foarte, foarte interesanta! asta in ideea ca habar n-am cu ce se manaca tenisul.....n-am crezut vreodata ca voi savura o carte despre suisurile si coborasurile din viata unui tenisman...dap, mi-a placut mult Andre Agassi si felul cum sunt redate emotiile, anxietatea si relatia cu tenisul!
Andre ci parla della sua carriera tennistica, da quando, piccolo, veniva allenato in maniera disumana dal padre, fino alle sue prime vittorie e al campione che è diventato. Una lettura incredibile, mi ha catturato molto.
El padre es el mejor personaje del libro, que desgraciadamente una vez que Andre empieza a ganar torneos y a tener su platita e independizarse, un poco desaparece: no le brinda nunca la más mínima muestra de afecto, e incluso cuando Andre gana su primer torneo de Grand Slam, él no lo felicita, le marca los errores que tuvo.
Agassi plays tennis long after his peers have retired even at the point where his body is barely holding on.Agassi has an insane dad.
So insane and high-strung and focused on his kids' tennis that it seems like it can't be true.The media doesn't get Agassi.
Following his separation from Brooke Shields, his friend predicts that he will marry and start a family with Steffi Graf within a few years.

I love how candid and honest Andre Agassi is from start to finish. A highly recommended read for any tennis fan.
He even marvels at his ability to write a memoir; for someone who pretty much flunked out of school to pursue tennis, Agassi grew into a vocal and tireless advocate for education, a voracious reader, and now, the author of a best-selling memoir."Open" refers not just to the Grand Slam titles he's won, but to his desire to open up about his life and his experiences on and off the tennis court.
He takes into the solitary confinement every tennis player endures; in his words, Agassi reveals how tennis is truly a one-on-one sport, and players have no one on the court to turn to but themselves.
Con i capelli ossigenati, l'orecchino e una tenuta più da musicista punk che da tennista, Agassi ha sconvolto l'austero mondo del tennis, raggiungendo una serie di successi mai vista prima.Il libro è stato inserito da Alessandro Baricco tra le cinquanta migliori letture degli ultimi dieci anni, e Baricco non è il primo che passa per strada.Quando ho cominciato a leggere la storia di Agassi, dietro consiglio del mio maestro di tennis, è stata una sensazione come quando alzi la pallina per aria e stai per battere un servizio, non sai veramente dove ti può portare quel colpo, se sarà "in" o "out", se il tuo avversario la respingerà restituendola con forza decuplicata, oppure se sarà un "ace"...
Most sporting memoirs I've read so far begin with the sportsperson's love for the game at an early age, some fortuitous occurrence or sheer slogging hard to make it big, and then staying competitive at the big stage despite obstacles, issues and problems of various kinds.Not this one.
Probably the first one I've read that begins with the author talking about hate for the game.
(Of course, that also means the ghostwriter did the job well.)The book starts off well with stories of Agassi beating adults at tennis, while still a kid and how his high-strung father got him to practice with a machine he build himself.
First of all, let me say I am not a tennis fan.
I don't know the terminology, and I have no idea what the rules are.
However, I quite liked this book and genuinely didn't mind all the tennis stuff.
For the first half of the book I sort of thought that Andre sounded like such a "guy." But not in a good way if you know what I'm saying.
He seems like a good person, and he certainly has been through a lot.
It's worth the read.P.S. He sure is handsome.P.P.S. Matt - You should get this book for Kim.
Agassi spills everything in his memoir.
He talks about his hatred for tennis, about his wins and losses, about his wonderful team, about the women he loved, about his rivals.
The thing I loved the most was the self-irony, the courage to admit his weaknesses and his strengths without sounding cocky.
Then I loved the humor, the metaphors, the comparisons.
I also loved the fact that with 2-3 exceptions he never refers to Pete Sampras as Sampras, but always as Pete.
Reading Open taught me so much about tennis and made me love Agassi.
It opens up unexpected dimensions into his tennis career, in addition to his childhood, marital life and everything off the court.It is terrifically written, engrossing you to the way he thinks and feels before, throughout and after the game.
It is not about how great he was, but rather how confused, unsure, rebellious and sick of his life, his tennis and himself!He was in constant search of himself and kept evolving to understand himself and what he wants in life.And when it describes his games, it captures your emotions and feelings into every tournament, game, set and point.
You feel screaming "Allez Agassi, Allez Agassi!" when he enters the court and punching the air with your fist "Come On, Agassi!" with every point rally.
Well, I postponed reading this book for a long time.
When I finally got to it, it took me an eternity to finish it.
OK, I took a small hiatus from reading in general (around two weeks), this happened when I had 17 pages left in the book.
I started to read again, but I read another 4 books before finishing this one.I cannot really say what I disliked about it.
I could not ”believe” the voice of the ”author”.
I wish it would have been different.It was at times painful to read it.
I recognize that it probably is a good book.
Ne ho visti a milioni sui calciatori che però non ho neanche considerato, essendo il calcio uno sport troppo chiacchierato per i miei gusti.
Dovete sapere però che se c'è uno sport che proprio non capisco fino in fondo quello è il tennis.
È la storia della vita di un uomo, uno sportivo, dei suoi sacrifici, della sua parte migliore e di quella peggiore.
In questo libro c'è la vita di un bambino costretto a giocare a tennis che si ribella come può all'angheria paterna, ma che fa del tennis l'unico scopo della sua vita.

I loved every word of it, reading his replay on the matches, what was going through his head, the mental struggle he felt in wins and losses, as well as the physical toll that 21 years of pro tennis eventually took on his body.
Coming away from this book I appreciate the mental aspect of the sport, which is huge, in a way that I couldn’t before.Another thing I think he does is make you, the reader, like him.
