https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201440.Tender_Rebel
And it was really good to see the womaniser Tony to be tamed from a Scottish heiress with quite a temper...And this book in this series was lovely!!!
She has to get married soon enough because she is in danger from a ruthless cousin...So, Roslyn is trying to find the right guy to be her husband and Tony is trying to win her heart...Roslyn is trying to vanish Tony from her mind and her life but Tony wants to ruin her plans...And in some point, he tricks her and they get married...For God's sake!!!
To me, there's nothing at all enjoyable about watching an irrational bitch treat her new husband like shit merely because of the wrongs she's constructed in her head.
It goes on seemingly forever, and is justified as her "Scots temper".
How thoroughly insulting to Scottish women.
There's a difference between having a temper in justifiable circumstances and making things up to justify treating someone badly merely because you wish to.
This would have been an enjoyable read if the heroine had been a bit more reasonable.
Rosslyn Chadwick, however, is an unreasonable, irrational bitch.
Why would I ever root for a bitch?
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance I have been re reading this Malory Anderson series and thought it would be a good idea to review these books as I read them. Tender Rebel is the second book in the series, and what a fun book to read and I loved this one. This is one of my personal favorites to read, although I could say that for many of the books in the series. But I have such fond memories of reading this the first time so many years ago and was quite a blast reconnectin
I have been re reading this Malory Anderson series and thought it would be a good idea to review these books as I read them.
This is one of my personal favorites to read, although I could say that for many of the books in the series.
"Now lower your dress a little-'"Anthony!""This is no time for offended modesty...
Roslynn has a strong attraction to Tony, but she knows he is Not the marrying type and attempts to stay away from him.
This is the type of romance that just gives you a smile every time you read it.
This is probably one of my favorite Malory books, although I think that Anthony is an absolute cad.
He is a complete rake, and he certainly gets hoisted by his own petard when he decides to pursue innocent Rosalyn, who's on the lookout for a husband, not a lover.
But she ends up getting the husband she came looking for.This book has some very good scenes that I will never forget, showing what an absolute rogue Anthony is (smile).
Anthony goes on to be a model husband, as we see in the subsequent Malory novels.
Κανονικά θα έβαζα 4 αστεράκια,μόνο και μόνο γι' αυτό το κακομαθημένο πλάσμα που είναι η πρωταγωνίστρια..
Παρόλα αυτά,ο Άντονι Μάλορι παραήταν τέλειος για να του στερήσω την απόλυτη βαθμολογία!Στο δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς,η Lindsey αφηγείται την ιστορία του Άντονι και της Ρόσλιν,ενώ ταυτόχρονα βλέπουμε το πώς εξελίσσονται κι οι ζωές των υπόλοιπων μελών της οικογένειας.
Εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο,πικάντικο,με ικανοποιητικές δόσεις χιούμορ,ρομάντζου,τρυφερότητας, το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο συνεχίζει να με εκπλήσσει για το γεγονός πως φαίνεται σαν να γράφτηκε μόλις πέρσι,ενώ μετράει περίπου μια 20ετία.
Η γραφή είναι φρέσκια,οι διάλογοι απολαυστικοί και οι χαρακτήρες αξιαγάπητοι -εκτός από την πρωταγωνίστρια,είπαμε!
A few days later, an attempted kidnapping on the street leaves Rosalynn feeling a little over exposed, and determined to lead her pursuer, most likely Jordy’s hirelings, astray by leaving for a country party given by Lady Regina Eden.
Upon arrival, Rosalynn learns Anthony is Regina’s uncle, but is determined to avoid him, as she desperately wants to get married, and feel safe.
Rosalynn and Anthony are married in his niece Regina’s country home and she finally feels safe.
Ah, the beginning of a huge love affair for me.
Books that are pure escapism, a bit cheesy, a bit bawdy, but intoxicating, none the less.
Johanna Lindsay is a great narrator, she entwines the reader into the plot and takes on a journey where you frantically turn pages to get to the next bit.
The beginning of my love affair with the Malory's and Johanna Lindsay.
I have re-read all her books time after time, and will continue to do so, for years to come.
The books are light, they are easy to read and digest.
RATING:  Welp!....It was a great book for something written in 1988.
I just feel like the plot was hellishly lazy and rather bored me at times and dragged on.
They were just insanely rich and so they had the time to listen to no one and act selfish as freak.
The beginning was so promising!
I rather enjoyed her book "The magic of you" ( i think it's called that) However, this book was ...not the thing.
I'm giving it three stars because , I didn't hate it, I finished it, and rather enjoyed the beginning.
A protagonista feminina Roslynn irritou-me profundamente ao longo de todo o livro, Tony foi mais engraçado e ainda me ri em alguns momentos com ele. Mas primeiro que aqueles dois se entendessem em relação a alguma coisa...
I loved the little stubborn scottish !
Τι γίνεται όμως όταν δύο εκρηκτικές προσωπικότητες, με τα δικά τους σκοτάδια, βρίσκονται αντιμέτωπες με το για πάντα ενός γάμου; Το πάθος που ενώνει τον Άντονι και τη Ρόσλιν είναι ικανό να φέρει την αγάπη στις καρδιές τους;Θεωρώ εξαιρετική την κίνηση των εκδόσεων Elxis να εκδώσουν επιτέλους την ιστορία του Άντονι, καθώς αυτό είναι το δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς και όχι το “Ο κουρσάρος της καρδιάς μου”, που είναι το τρίτο.
Η χημεία μεταξύ τους είναι μαγική και η πένα της Johanna Lindsey δημιουργεί μια υπέροχη ιστορία πάθους και μυστικών, φτάνοντας συγγραφικά σε ανώτερα επίπεδα από τα προηγούμενα έργα της.Ένα βιβλίο ιδανικό για τους λάτρεις του ιστορικού, αισθηματικού μυθιστορήματος, αλλά και γι' αυτούς που προτιμούν αυτοτελείς ιστορίες οι οποίες όμως εντάσσονται σε λογοτεχνικές σειρές.
Since the beginning she was judgmental and distrustful with Anthony, and I hated when she was making the decision she kept saying it's not fair when he treated her like that making it sound as if it was His fault!
She kept getting mad at him over nothing and making everything his fault, he's the problem, he's the unfaithful, he's the one who shouldn't be trusted, he's the pauper, all him never her.I was really disappointed at the ending, it was not satisfactory, she got way too easily with her action.
Ο Άντονι έχει όλα εκείνα τα στοιχεία που -θεωρητικά- τον καθιστούν ακατάλληλο για μια γυναίκα, όμως παρά του ότι είναι απατεώνας, η γοητεία του είναι κάτι στο οποίο δύσκολα μπορείς να αντισταθείς.
Εκτός κι αν είσαι η Ρόσλιν Τσάντγουικ, μια δυναμική Σκοτσέζα που δεν μασάει τα λόγια της, και που προκειμένου να μην παντρευτεί τον υποχθόνιο ξάδερφό της αλλά και να απομακρύνει από κοντά της τους επίδοξους μνηστήρες που θέλουν να την μαγαρίσουν και να της φάνε τα λεφτά, καταφεύγει στη λύση του γάμου.
Why was she always so self-centered, never considering anyone's feelings but her own?Just what I was thinking for the second part of the book.
I am so frustrated with this book!
I am so glad this is the fourth Malory book I've read because otherwise I might have given up.
Anthony is one hot hero and Roslynn is an independent funny heroine.
She was the most annoying heroine ever!
They can't be fighting for 100 pages and then magically resolve everything in 10 pages.Well, I'm still glad I read it and I do enjoy this series immensely!
Ah, a total guilty pleasure, this one. I first read it when I was around twelve (I do a joint review with my inner child here) and it's still one of those books that I can open and lose myself in the sheer crack-tastic awesomeness that was late-80's, early-90's Lindsey.
Okay, I'm cheating here, and I don't like them all equally, but I do love the Mallory's. They're all funny. I especially liked Love Only Once (the first book), Gentle Rogue (my favorite), and The Magic of You (where the heroine chases the hero shamelessly).
Tony, vente pa España! http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...
Opinião, em breve... mas ela irritou-me lol
Anthony'ye hiç yakışmamış bu şımarık ve "iki kere" aptal kız. Kızın tavırları öyle bunaltıcıydı ki zor tahammül ettim. İki günde bitebilecek bir kitap elimde süründü o yüzden.
But I can almost handle them better than Lord Anthony Malory- who though not a barbarian, is forceful in his pursuit and relentless seduction.
But he eventually realizes Roz is different and his seduction of her really does become entertaining and fairly hot for the age of this book.Then there’s Scottish Roz. She really irritated me this go around with her single minded pursuit of what she thought was the right path when it clearly was not.
Truly.There are some fairly romantic bits later in the story but the most fun is when the Malorys all hang out together.
This book reminds me of the classic romances of Georgette Heyer, only with less historical accuracy and more sex.(Seriously, could she not do a little research on prices back then?
If Mr. Darcy is considered extremely wealthy with £10,000 a year,then I doubt Roslynn could buy several thousand pounds of furniture and consider it pocket change, much less give her husband an "allowance" of £2,000 a month.) I admit to skipping the graphic sex scenes, of which there are maybe a handful, with a fair amount of innuendo in between.
I would have given this a 4 stars but the heroine Roslyn Chadwick was such a shrew that towards the last third of the book end I wanted either Anthony Malory or her cousin Geordie to give her a good Spanking.
I would have loved for someone in the malory family to teach her a lesson in humility.
In this case I think the author went overboard in an attempt to show a "firy scottish temper", and instead succeeded in making the reader devoid of sympathy for the Heroine's plight.
Loved it for the 3rd or 4th time...
I've lost count actully.
Still one of my favorites in the series.
Now I will have to read book one and then read about Derek and Kelsey again.
Who knows I might just re-read them all in 2016.Yep, read again because it's one of my favs of the series and I just finished the newest in the series.
This series and Janet Evanovich's numbers are titles I can read again and again.
I borrowed out my book three, so I might re-read book one again.
Regina's story featuring all her uncles.
Love it!
Hated this. Possibly my least favorite of the Malory series. The heroine is so incredibly annoying that I cannot stop rolling my eyes. The plot is stale, the dialogue boring -- I had such a hard time getting through this, and this review is a reminder to myself to never read it again as the completely forgettable storyline might make me re-read it by accident.
I have this original cover and I'm so glad I still have it. I loved reading this many years ago and reading it now I still enjoy this story. I love that Johanna Lindsey books have strong heroines that don't cower no matter how alpha their males are and Roslynn is one strong and feisty female.
me ha gustado muuucho, Tony Malory es... LOVE. Sus discusiones con su hermano James son...
Finally i made to the finish line. I despise the heroin so much that it get on my nerve and spoilt my mood to enjoy the reading. .
La autora sigue recreando muy bien las épocas (y creo que lo hace en todos y cada uno de los libros que conforman la serie), así que su patrón repetitivo es la época y las sociedades.
para hacer este tipo de novelas se necesita investigar bastante, y lindsey es aficionada a Inglaterra y su historia.Me ha caído mejor el personaje de Antony, y Roslynn...
Los libros de malory pueden empezarse independientemente, pero como siempre digo: es una serie, y si quieres pescar todo el inicio desde el primero, ya sabes qué hacer.
Es un libro bonito pero me esperaba más de los dos. Él me pareció demasiado paciente y aburrido y ella muy caprichosa y orgullosa. Las peleas y los distanciamientos se alargan mucho para estirar la novela, cuando tenían la trama del primo de Ros para darle un poco de acción y emoción a la historia. Como en el anterior, James es el que le da gracia a la novela, así que espero que su libro supere mis expectativas.
Και το ταξιδι στην Αγγλια του 1800 συνεχιζεται ..σειρα εχει ο γοητευτικος Αντονι Μαλορυ ...Πολυ μου αρεσε αυτος ο τυπος ...η σκωτζεζα συμπαθητικη μεν ,ολιγον υστερικη δε..η ιστορια κυλησε σαν νερακι και χαλαρα συνεχιζω με τον σκληρο τζεημς Μαλορυ ..
