https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3203449-for-my-legionaries
If this doesn't move you, nothing can.Notes & Quotes:Corneliu Zelea Codreanu (AKA The Captain)http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corneliu..."...fill your hearts with fire and stand firm in the difficult and righteous struggle in which you are engaged and out of which we all have the command to emerge either victorious or dead." - Corneliu Zelea Codreanu (For My Legionaries, Pg.02)http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolshevikhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_..."I was taught to speak little, a fact which later was to lead me to hate "chatterboxing" and too much talk." - Corneliu Zelea Codreanu (For My Legionaries, Pg.02)"Before the war a circus came to Iasi which held fighting shows.
That ending is just brutal, Codreanu will never die, however, those gendarmes will.Codreanu was one of the greatest men of history, from what I can tell in this book, and he deserves at the minimum recognition within the Orthodox Church.
This book was magnificent in it's telling of his life story and everything that happened between his introduction to low level anti communist activities to being the mastermind of the Clerical Fascist Iron Guard.
It's a shame that in the end he was assassinated by the pathetic king carol II and his organization achieved power for only a tiny bit of time.
"To you, who have been struck, maligned or martyred, I can bring the news, which I wish to carry more than the frail value of a casual rhetorical phrase: soon we shall win.
Do not confuse the Christian right and duty of forgiving those who wronged you, with the right and duty of our people to punish those who have betrayed it and assumed for themselves the responsibility to oppose its destiny.
Do not forget that the swords you have put on belong to the nation.
You carry them in her name, In her name you will use them for punishment-unforgiving and unmerciful.
A case study in the psychology of tragic heroism.
A moving account of heroism, and of profound love for one's fatherland, one's people and national culture.The accounts, included documented statistics, of the parasitic invasion by Zionist Jews, the abject betrayal of the people by the entire political class and the unconscious persecution, not excluding systematic torture, extrajudicial killings at the order of the highest public office and basically outright war on the indigenous population of the country is shocking to learn of.But Codreanu's account is maybe most importantly a didactic recipe for building a very sound and robust resistance movement under very hostile conditions.
A truly inspirational work! I highly recommend this book. I have no doubt Codreanu will be among the Wildes Heer: "The Furious Horde of the dead warriors of Odin-Wotan which will return at the end of time as the ‘last battalion’, to fight the decisive battle for the return of the Gods and the restoration of the Golden Age."Quote from "Nos, Book of Resurrection," in the Dictionary of Initiation of A-MOR
It's always refreshing to read a book that fuels the fire within. Codreanu deserves nothing short of sainthood.It's also interesting to see Jews rate this book as 1 star for being anti-semitic, yet don't put forth a single argument against Codreanu's concerns for Jewish subversion of Romania. Oy vey!
Romanian nazi copycats using the cross instead of the swastika. Codreanu, an immensely charismatic extreme right winger who became for many people the providential man who could fix society's problems with the application of his righteous wrath. Still one star for the historical value of this book.
Una oda al honor
I read this book not because I'm a fascist, but because I had just read about Corneliu Codreanu and I wanted to see all of the weird religious/mysticism stuff he was into. If you're looking for that, you will be disappointed because it's basically just his autobiography and some rules for the Iron Guard. If you're interested in Romanian fascism or fascism in general, it's worth reading just for the historical value. Other than that, it's anti-Semitic bile and actually pretty boring. You'd think a death-obsessed religious fanatic with mystic leanings could at least write something interesting.
An extraordinary book from so many perspectives: an autobiography, a testament, a historical document, a moral conduct manual, a warning against internal and external dangers. If you don't understand and feel the large river of painful truth flowing from this great writing, you're either not Romanian or having your mind poisoned by Judeo-Communist lies.
Romania's answer to Mein Kampf. In a way, far more entertaining because of the religiosity of the second rate Mussolini.
I am so glad I had the opportunity to read this book and realize a man like this actually existed.
The principles the legionaries have to follow was interesting too - the fact that they were vocal about not being materialistic, and explicitly said "a legionary must live in poverty" is admirable.
Any man would do himself a great service reading this book.
Just reading this book alone made me motivated to go out and be an activist for political change, and for that I have to give this book 5/5.However, with the publisher's errors and misspelling of words I'd give it a 3/5.
Interesting book, but the whole the Jews are the scourge of the world shtick gets kind of old quick. But what do you expect from a fascist manifesto.
An autobiographical chronicle of the background and growth of the Iron Guard.
