https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121877.Nothing_But_the_Truth
The Story of Some Asshole Kid who fucks up some poor teacher's lifeI gave this two stars, and then decided it's not worth two stars.
The book would be crappy but innocent if it wasn't for it's Newberry Award and the blurb from the New York Times, about the story of the main character needing to be shouted out.
Every couple of weeks I get to interact with kids that have the same level of witty remarks as the narrator, I've learned the best way to deal with their middling wit is to turn around really quickly at them, glare and ask them, what did you fucking say to me?
DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME AND READ THIS BOOK!
If you want to try your luck and see if you like it, by all means.
But from someone who was forced to read this book, and I love reading all types of books so that's not the issue, I am personally suggesting you do not.
It does teach you a lesson about lying but in my personal opinion it is the fact that Philips dad pushed him into going to that reporter that things got out of hands.
Plus, the reporter made every thing seem bigger than it was.
This book is mostly based on exaggeration.
She read it in 2 days (a clue that she liked it).
But I kept reading because the situation was so real to me--I have seen people exactly like this firsthand.
Although I didn't read every review of this book, I found the negative ones interesting, especially those folks who didn't like the characters.
Maybe they don't want to admit that there ARE people like that out there (all too many of them)?
And since when do you have to like a character for a book to make a point?
It's basically about a snotty kid who doesn't like English or the teacher that teaches English and thinks she's so mean and terrible to him while everyone seems to like her.
When the morning announcements come over the school intercom and the song, "The Star Spangled Banner" plays like it does every morning, he hums it to himself and the teacher tells him to stop because the school rules require a moment of silence while its playing.
He gets suspended for disrupting the class, not singing or humming the song but that's what he thinks to be true and what he tells everyone until it turns into a huge mess becomes national news.
This book is complete shit.
When I finished it, I just threw it across my room and picked up another book.
First of all, for a book that's really all dialogue, why can't Avi write dialogue well at all?
He's no Elmore Leonard or David Mamet, that's for sure.Also, the ending.
One of the worst endings I've ever read simply because it doesn't make sense.
Are we supposed to feel bad for the kid?
Or is it supposed to be funny?
Personally, I thought it just sucked major shit.
That's why I threw it across my room.
Nothing But The Truth This book honestly, is good for that kid who believes that school is no good and the adults are out to bring down kids. Honestly. The objective exposition of information and surprise ending makes this a good read for the younger set. I found it annoying, but I think that's because as a faculty member, it really bugged me how everyone failed to research the facts and the administration was all about covering its tracks.
I LOVED this book so much!Because this book was soooo damn lame.
I had a very large mixture of feelings about this book.
I liked the plot, I didn't like the main character.
I hated the end although it probably is the best end it could have and still be realistic.
What made this book awesome was its complexity.
The way it made you think and the way it challenges the concept of truth.
Then of course the principal just told everything in a way that it favored him.
I also thought it was cool how this book was told mainly through conversation.
Nothing but the Truth is a subversive little Young Adult novel that takes on educational hypocrisy, personal accountability, and freedom of speech.
What follows is a national firestorm, with Phillip being held aloft as a martyr for free speech, and his teacher, Miss Narwin, accused of anti-patriotism.Writer Avi weaves together multiple genres, incorporating memos, letters, interview transcripts, dialogue, and journal entries to provide the reader with a multi-faceted, Rashomon-like version of the story, and by the end, he has somehow managed to convince us that everyone involved in the scandal is simultaneously guilty and innocent.
I understand that he is young and doesn't fully grasp the severity of the situation, but I feel like he could have spoke up at the end of the story.
I did not like Philip's dad.
It seems like this whole situation could have been avoided if Philip's dad did not push him so hard to talk to their neighbor when obviously Philip was reluctant to do so.
I feel like she should have tried a little harder to stand up for herself instead of just rolling over and taking it.*I won this book in a contest at www.teenreads.com
('What can you say about a dog?') He's somewhat interested in girls, and strikes me as the typically unmotivated learner who lives for sports.Philip has a habit that his homeroom teacher, Mr. Lunser, has tolerated in spite of the school directive that when the national anthem is played over the PA system, students will stand at respectful quiet attention.
In fact, Mr. Lunser actually talks to Phillip during the national anthem,telling him to put his book away.The book flips back and forth between the school directives as published,letters Philip's English teacher Miss Narwin writes to her sister, and conversations between Philip and his coach, Philip and his friends, and Philip and his teachers and parents.
The major reason I disliked this book is that the main character, Philip, is an entirely self-centered, whiny, and unlikeable smart-alec who feels entitled and thinks he's funny when he's not.
I don't understand why anyone who actually spoke to Philip himself would believe his version of the "truth".
If only the other adults would have been struck with such common sense.It is never stated anywhere in the book that Philip has sung along with Star Spangled Banner before.
Philip has no sense of "patriotism"--our first encounter with him shows him reading during the Anthem, and on the last page he admits he doesn't even know the words to the Anthem.
Nothing But the Truth by Avi is a realistic fiction novel pointed at several characters, rules, or documents perspective.
The author really displayed how individuals perspective of the truth can be used to their advantage.
If you're a person who loves books with narration, Nothing But The Truth isn't for you.
Although you can assume there's a main character, the story isn't told from that perspective.
In fact, the book isn't told in just one, but multiple perspectives and scenarios.
This book is also for readers who enjoy putting the pieces of the story together themselves.
Avi is one of my favorite writers.
So this book is presented like a file for a crime.
This even happened at this time and place.
There is really no narration.
No persuasion.
Just a very stark, neutral telling of events.
A young boy refuses to stand for the national anthem or refuses to say the Pledge of Allegiance or something like that (it's been awhile).
The school wants to discipline him.
He claims he has the right to not do it.
But as the facts come to light, you see that the boy's defense may be a bit fabricated.
Yay for Avi!
I had to read this book for summer reading. I heard from others who read it before that it is really, really bad and confusing. This was the only book that the teachers had for us, so I started reading it. This book really bored me and I hated how the poor teacher had to resign because of one student who just kept on exaggerating and partly lying to make other people dislike her. I feel that this is just a waste of my time reading and for other students to read.
This was such a great, though provoking book. I read it right before the election, which seemed appropriate. It just goes to show how easily the truth can get twisted. It's a sad story, but I am still thinking about it. I can't wait to discuss it with someone. It just goes to show why I love children's literature.
TERRIBLE BOOK! DO NOT READ! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED! IF YOU READ, DO NOT READ ENDING! THE ENDING RUINS THE BOOK. OTHERWISE OKAY.
Books such as The Man who was Poe, Blue Heron, and my favorite The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle brought more to my life than just a way to pass the time on a freezing island in the middle of the Bering Sea. It brought adventure, love, laughter.
In frame one the parents are standing behind the teacher talking to the child about what is going on at school and that things better shape up.
In frame two, which is supposed to represent a new generation, the parents are standing behind the child and placing the blame on the teacher for bad grades,discipline problems, or whatever was happening.
The next thing you know, the parents are screaming at administrators and you get called into the office to apologize to the family.
It is part of my job to call a student's parents when they get less than a C in my class.
It is part of my job to call home if a student seems upset about my class.
If I expect the school administrators to represent my perspective when talking to parents, then I will probably be disappointed.
Problem solve in the hallway or between classes.Lastly, what kind of English teacher requires The Call of the Wild but not The Outsiders?
woohoo WARNING LANGUAGE CHILDRENOk so first off this book was not written well at the fuck all.
This kid is such a fucking cocky little dick.
She obviously wanted to like him if this shitty little kid was making these comments I would have to be held the fuck back so I would slap the shit outta him.
And then when everyone hates him he wonders why I just cant even with this kidThen the shit these people go through without even just setting the facts straight with maybe their own review but you know fuck that lets just let it go on.
This book shows 2 sides of 2 people that are "against" each other. It makes not be able to know which side to take. That's what I like about it. It teaches that what you hear may not be the truth.
It was a good book but at the end it was like the story didn't finish.
It was good but left at a "cliff hanger"
NBTT is the tale of a boy named Phillip that gets into trouble multiple times with one of his teachers for being disruptive.
The plot turns from good to bad which makes it an some what entertaining, okay read.NBTT has some strong points that I enjoyed.
These things made the book seem more fictional.NBTT is the tale of a boy named Phillip that gets into trouble multiple times with one of his teachers for being disruptive.
The plot turns from good to bad which makes it a somewhat entertaining, okay read.
The "documentary" style of the book is definitely interesting, and opens up a lot of possible conversation.On the other hand, I found pretty much every character insufferable, I could not stand Phillip especially, and while he does end up being punished in the end, not nearly enough of a punishment given the fact that he completely ruined a good teacher's life, and a teacher who was liked by most of his friends.
As a teacher myself who has had students like Philip in my classes, I found this story an interesting and frustrating example of how easily things can get blown out of proportion.
Some topics to discuss in the Christian school classroom - living with the consequences of your bad choices, the power of the tongue, the foolishness of judging too hastily before you hear the whole story, listening to the news with discernment and caution.
I did not like the last discussion.
*Spoiler* I know it's supposed to be powerfully ironic, but it's a little too pat and would he really cry in his new classroom?

I was reading it for class, and the discussions that we had were really amazing, but the book itself just annoyed me.
Philip is a jerk, but yet, I somehow have managed to feel kind of bad for him.
Ms. Narwin is an amazing teacher and everyone likes her, other than Philip just for one stupid reason that he could have prevented if he had just tried harder on his exam.
I think that that is why this book annoyed me so much, the whole thing could have been prevented if Philip had just tried harder on his English exam and FINISHED THE DANG BOOK.


