https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11580.Creepshow
It's just a blast, so much fun.
Having seen the movie first it's hard not to picture Stephen King and Ted Danson etc in their respective roles.My favourite story is probably The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, he's such a lunk-head.
Least favourite...
it's hard to choose one because I really did enjoy them all, but They're Creeping Up On You is the one I maybe loved the least?The Creep is such a wonderful narrator, he had me laughing out loud several times.
Creepshow is a fun way to pass an afternoon, and a nice addition to any King collection!
This creepy graphic comic book is based on the 1982 horror anthology and cult classic film Night of the Living Dead....and gives us....five wonderfully dark and sinister stories.
Just a few words about each....don't want to spoil your creepy fun!
No. 2: The Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verrill (4.Stars) ~~~ Something very creepy and very green from out of the sky here.
No. 3: The Crate (5 Stars) ~~~.
No. 5: They're Creeping Up On You (4 Stars) ~~~ Yep!
OMGOSH, I love THE CREEP narrator AND the super creepy graphics AND the final words of No. 5...."Casablechha"....
Creep.Creep..Creepy...
Well that was disturbing.This graphic novel is a collection of 5 short stories, and I really enjoyed them all. I think first story (Father's Day) was my favorite, but last one (They’re Creeping Up On You) was one of the most disturbing stories I've ever read. No wonder I hate bugs. Nasty little suckers.
My review is for the Gallery 13 re-release published in May of 2017 ONLY.The art is great, as are the stories, but I'm putting this review up specifically for those interested in the physical edition (the paperback) of this book.
This version however...The production quality of this paperback is on par with buying a children's grocery-store coloring book only to find someone has already colored in all the pictures.
Now imagine you paid $18 for said coloring book.In summation: One of the most blatant cash grabs I've ever had the displeasure to be suckered into buying.
This is a fun graphic collection of horror stories. Beautifully illustrated!
Класически комикс-албум от началото на 80's, когато Краля е започвал да се развихря както само той си знае, а Ромеро вече е имал над половин дузина ленти зад гърба си, нарисуван от трето знаково за хоръра име - Бърни Райтсън; издържана отвсякъде (ретро) визия, навяла ми асоциации (ти да видиш, ама баш така си беше) не толкова с историите от "Дъга", колкото с тези в "Чуден свят". Адмирации за "Изток-Запад", което, както и "Артлайн студио", не се страхува да предприема по-нестандартни издателски ходове. Аз щастлив! Много щастлив! И не на последно място: Deadface, благодаря, човече!!!
Everyone should own this. For some reason this comic freaked me out more than the movie (except for the roach part which is just DISGUSTING). A hoot. I don't even know if this is still in print.Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril is life-changing....
Playlist Father’s DayNo musicThe Lonesome Death of Jordy VerrillStar Spangled Banner The CrateNo music Something To Tide You Over No music They’re Creeping Up on YouNo Music
Очарована съм да видя прословутия комикс най-накрая и на български.Кратки, чаровни, страховити "разкази в картинки", превърнали се в класика още когато съм ходела права под масата и все така разкошни и до днес.Йей!
I love both Jordy & The Creep so much! They are such great characters! I honestly cannot remember if I've read this before, or if it's just the movie playing in my head over & over because I've seen it a billion times! Either way, this was so fun! I wish there was more!
Писано от Кинг, филмирано от Ромеро, с илюстрации от Райтсън - издадено чудесно от Изток-Запад, преведено от Иван Атанасов, какво повече да се каже и рейтне, освен с макс!
(Neither artist worked on the comic shown in the movie, if memory serves.)Sadly, a good deal of the art herein looks a bit rushed.
Wrightson clearly saves his best work for the monsters, and they benefit from it.
The best is my favourite story from the movie, as well: 'The Crate.' In this story (just slightly different from the way it's presented in the flick), he even manages to make one of the characters look like the actor who played him!If you're a horror fan, you should get a kick out of this book.
This is graphic novel based on Stephen King’s screenplay for the movie Creepshow.
The movie is much better than this book (if you could call it that).
The five stories are much shorter with less detail and some changes have been made from the film; most notably They’re Creeping Up on You. The story does not really require much depth to be entertaining.
The book pales in comparison to the newer graphic novels based on King’s work i.e. The Dark Tower and The Stand, but I think those series had much more to work with starting out.
Много добър комикс! Много съм доволен!
(I'm not totally panning the film however, I do after all own it and Creepshow 2!) Even though the stories were old hat though, I still had a good time reading the comic version.
Do not dive into this book thinking that it is a graphic novel.
I read it in an evening and like most of the comic books that I have floating around from my childhood, I guarantee that I'll pick it up and read it again at some point in the future.
Sometimes we need that release.I guess on that note, I'll quit before I have more words in this review than there are in the book itself!
I think I must have told everyone in May (and now I am doing it again) that I was beyond the moon to discover this classic anthology of campy horror stories being re-released.
This small graphic depiction of the original screenplay packs a nice punch of campy nostalgia in a truly unique manner that it not to be mistaken for your run-of-the-mill GN.
Fans of the film and horror alike, will find enough value within this to make it a must have.My thoughts and reviews can also be found on Books, Vertigo and Tea.
"Creepshow" nació originalmente como una película tributo a los viejos comics de terror como "Tales from the Crypt" y "The Vault of Horror".
El ejemplar contiene cinco relatos del mismísimo Stephen King dirigidos por el grandioso George A.
El comic es una adaptación de las historias que figuran en la película, y están tan perfectamente ilustradas por Bernie Wrightson que es imposible no enamorarse.
Trazos de la vieja escuela, de aquellos comics que marcaron la infancia de muchos fans del horror.
Es un imperdible, a pesar de ser una rareza, vale la pena buscarlo.En mi canal comentaré tanto el comic como la película en mayor detalle, por si gustan ver: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHo0...
A perfectly serviceable movie-to-comic adaptation that wasn't terrible, but not great, either.The movie is kind of amazingly terrigreat in an I-like-to-get-tipsy-and-watch-this kind of way, and the comic is pretty much the same.Except I wasn't drunk while I read this, so it probably lost some of its charm.Also, I'm sad it wasn't METEOR SHIT! in the comic, which is my FAVOURITE LINE IN THE WHOLE MOVIE and something my husband and I say to each other all the time for no reason at all.There are few instances where I'll tell you to watch the movie instead, but this is one.
I loved this book, the art and storytelling within the cover and text was amazing!
The illustrations were pretty good. The stories were creative. Karma. That is pretty much what these stories entailed. Revenge and karma. Exactly like the old 80's Creepshow movies I remember watching as a kid. It was a bit nostalgic. The last story was the kicker for me. I hate bugs!
This is just pure fun. I wish he would write some more of these. Creepshow is a throwback to the horror comics of the 1950's. In the age of Trump with the depressing daily news, we need more stuff like this.
The five short stories that make up the film (and this book, of course) are all good and fun and true to the spirit of the old EC line.
I want my cake!" at my wife and children.
Wrightson was an excellent choice to do this adaptation, which one could argue is the best graphic adaptation of a horror film ever produced.
His work on Batman and Swamp Thing was excellent, but I thought he was always at his best when drawing monsters.
Creepshow is a showcase of his best.
This graphic novel is based on the cult classic horror anthology by the same name.
I adore the film, but the graphic novel adapation didn't really capture how much camp and how fun the film was.
I wish the pages were glossy and not paper but that is just me nit picking.
It did a decent job with "The Crate" and "The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill." I think it's worth a read if you loved the movie, like I do.
I'd pick it up second hand, the library or even Bookoutlet.
Trash graphic novel?Em 1982, a Warner lançou o filme “Creepshow”, dirigido por George Romero com roteiro de Stephen King.
Eram 5 contos de terror, baseados no estilo utilizado pelo gênero nos quadrinhos dos anos 50, como a famosa “Contos da Cripta”, da EC Comics, cuja principal característica era o humor negro.
Os fãs de Stephen King, desde então, só tinham acesso à obra em inglês e era impensável que um dia viesse a ter uma edição nacional.
Hoje eu já não posso esconder que “Creepshow” foi roteirizado por King, então vamos conviver com isso.
What a fun ride...take me back to the old EC Comics from a bygone era! Yes, I enjoyed the move, but reading a comic for the first time in more years than I care to count was just plain fun!
I used to love the TV show. Catseye too.
This was a cute read. It was funny and entertaining.
Segment 1: This features a chibi Joe Hill (with a cute kid's lisp speech impediment which adds to his charm rather than impede his abilities as an actor) whose comic book is thrown away by his asshole dad.
Great setup as we're led into the world of the comic book, "Creepshow".STORY 1: "I Want My Cake".
3/5STORY 2: "Stephen King is a Yee-Haw".
JWH discovers his trophy wife doesn't want him anymore, and gets his revenge in the worst way.
3/5STORY 4: "There's a Monkey in my Closet".
Improbable powers that thing has aside, this is a great suspense piece.
Another of my favorite King books!
It's basically Stephen King's homage to the horror comics of the 1950's, specifically EC Comics, and he did a great job of capturing the spirit of said comics.
Berni Wrightson is also my favorite horror artist, and possibly also my favorite comic artist of any genre.The book is an anthology with several short horror stories featuring plenty of scares and gore with some twists involved as well.
Fans of both horror comics and Stephen King have probably already read this, but if you haven't, you should!
Picked up this movie-to-comic version and thought it was reasonably lame.I guess the Stephen King name wasn't enough to salvage this one. The narration is funny, somewhat like the comics of the 1960s/1970s and the narrator is an undead Stan Lee.None of the stories have an impact, but well, neither did the movie.I suggest saving your time and money, and avoiding this one. (Of course, a 'thank you' note to me will also be much appreciated.) :D
