https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218461.A_Gift_from_Earth
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Known Space: "A Gift from Earth" by Larry Niven(Original Review, 1980-09-08)Oof! a very palpable hit! --- although I would offer that the fault is more in the condensation of several months' lengthy discussions of nearly four years ago than of a sexist bias. I think I misquoted one of the arguments proffered by someone who was at the time raising a 5-year-old;
This is one of Niven's earliest books, but still an interesting read bearing in mind it's extrapolating from mid-1960's beliefs and assumptions. It's a scientific and political exploration set in the framework of his Known Space series, and while the characterization may be a bit on the weak side the plot throws out a stream of challenges and postulations that more than make up for any other shortcomings. (Mt. Lookitthat was always one of my favorite settings.)
Browsing through the Niven backlist of Known Space books, and after the stellar Protector and Ringworld's Children, expectations were ramped up for A Gift from Earth.
A diabolical scenario, for sure.There is only one path for the colonists, and they are moved on this path by the arrival of a gift from earth.
Thus, we have another complex concept book from Niven.Gift ought to be a tale of anger and reprisal, a revolution brewing and exploding, Anthem with real passion, but instead the author chooses to follow the adventures of Matthew Keller.
The plot here leans very heavily on the protagonist's psychic powers (specifically, a type of telekinesis) which acts as the book's perpetuum mobile.
For the most part.Our knowledge of parapsychology is not the only thing that has changed in the intervening decades, after all.
Organs for transplant are, indeed, in high demand in our present age, but it has not produced the massive state-funded organ banks which Niven portrays, let alone the butchering of miscreants who have accrued an overabundance of parking tickets.In short, not bad, but no masterpiece.
The characters are developed far enough to have distinct personalities but their interactions at times felt a bit too forced.
It was complex enough is so that it didn’t leave an anti-climatic feeling, though the character interaction got white washed a bit too much at the end and quirked my eyebrow.I’m glad I read this book and it was a nice change of pace from all of those Star Wars science fiction novels that I read back in middle school and high school.
Set in Niven’s Known Space, more specifically on the world of Plateau, where the only habitable location is Mount Lookitthat, an area half the size of California that rises above the toxic clouds that range the planet.
The crew of the initial colony ship set up an elitist society in which “crew” are first class citizens and “colonists” are lower class.
Convicted criminals are harvested for their organs, thus allowing “crew” to extend their lives with transplants.
Then a ship comes from Earth with some disruptive new technology.While not one of the more flamboyant Known Space novels, it is cleverly constructed around some very intriguing ideas.
I just enjoy the novels that deal more with the greater whole of Known space, and the technology and events that take place at the further end of the chronology.
And this book, taking place on a single planet, early in the colony's existence makes it a bit less interesting than the rest of his work that I've read.That doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it very much.
a lot of his ideas are a bit out there, and that is half the fun!Pretty far down on my list of Known Space favorites, but that isn't saying much.
Niven, Larry.
A Gift from Earth.
Del Rey, 1984.Niven’s Known Space series is always fun and can be morphed into any number of genres and keep several balls in the air at the same time.
Gift begins with the question of what would happen if a tyrannical society that uses organ harvesting as a form of punishment suddenly received disruptive technology that made organ harvesting obsolete.
To this it adds the question of what happens if you put a man with the power to render himself virtually invisible as an accidental conscript in the revolution.
I am tempted to say you can’t make this stuff up, but I guess Niven can.
I enjoyed this. I read this after reading Ringworld. It didn't go where I expected it to, but it was still a fun story.
Not one of Niven's classics
The Plateau was then divided into territories with the crew residing on Alpha Plateau and the colonists on Beta, Delta, Gamma, and Iota.
Both slowboats had been refitted as additional space for the enormous Hospital constructed on Alpha Plateau.
It was from the Hospital that the crew governed Mount Lookitthat.
The organ banks quickly became an instrument of fear and allowed a dictatorship to form, as well as a resistance group called the Sons of Earth led by Harry Kane and Jayhawk Hood.
Will Keller be able to rescue his friends from the Hospital and assist them in a revolution against Castro and the crew?
A very creative concept and the story (unlike a lot of 60's sci-fi) has dated very well.
But of these groups, this story focuses on members of two sub-groups; Implementation, the police force of the Crew who run "The Hospital" (an organ bank where criminals are taken apart to be used for spare parts to keep the Crew alive and healthy) and the Sons of Earth (an unsuccessful old rebel movement of colonists who basically seem to be biding their time waiting for some kind of opportunity to smash the Hospital and set the Colonists free from Crew rule).
In the universe of this novel, set in the far future on a colony world called 'Mt. Lookitthat,' a very small group of people, direct descendants of the original crew that piloted the first ships there, and the colonists, who are in such a different social stratum that they literally don't live the same place that crew do.The crew has also discovered a kind of immortality by harvesting organs of colonists who have broken the law.
If the main justification for capital punishment goes out the window, what happens to the legal system?It's a thoughtful book, written while Larry Niven was still learning his craft (Niven is probably my favorite 'Hard' SF writer.
In a gift from Earth a planet in the Tau Ceti system is colonized by humans.
Something of the same thing is going on on Earth, as seen in other Niven tales of this period.
But then comes the gift from Earth, the artificial organs that make forcible organ donation no longer necessary.
But this will upset the applecart that Plateau is built on, and the rulers are willing to suppress the technology in order to maintain the status quo.
Another winner from Niven, one of the best of the hard science fiction writers.
While I found nothing specifically off putting, I just, on a personal level, enjoyed this book less than I thought I would.While it does a great job of articulating how his many worlds with their own unique and independently forming cultures are as separate and heterogeneous, the particulars of this world I found to be less endearing than others.The body politic being the primary driving force of this narrative, he has painted a world with a very unique culture and caste structure - one that horrifies and intrigues.Fans of Heinlein should in particular be intrigued by this work.
In A Gift From Earth, he builds on that idea.On the planet "We Made It", only descendants of the Crew of the original colonist ship got to benefit from the organ banks, creating a distinct social gap between the have and have-nots.
This is the story of a technological breakthrough that eliminated the need for the organ banks, and the resulting social upheaval on "We Made It".Niven doesn't consider himself very good at writing war stories, but he certainly handled a revolution well here.
As usual, he came up with an interesting idea and explored the social, political, and technological ramifications while still telling an engaging story.
A lot of the book revolves around organ harvesting, capital punishment, and the relationship between technology and ethics.
There are still a lot of the "the sonic-wave front marched out of the town…" sort of math-y sounding literary hooks.
Love em.Others have commented that this book didn't really anticipate the future that well, although I think it did pretty good for 1968.
I thought it was written in like '85.Having read the Ringworld books, its cool to get an earlier look at the Known Space universe (the last section is particularly tantalizing in this regard).Not too much weird Niven sexytime, or meaningless Man Kzin-Wars violence.
Niven has used the concept of organ banks & the resultant change in ethics/justice (i.e. death penalty for traffic offences) in several stories - most notably in the Long Arm of Gil Hamilton, but it fits in well with this society of Haves (decendants of the Crew) and Have Nots (the decendants of the colonists)on a challenging world.
Niven loves to play with unusual habitats, and this world is no exception.I liked the relatively slow reveal of Matt's talent - even if it took the characters even longer to work it out.
It felt at times a bit like a Heinlein juvie in terms of the action, even if the lines between good & evil were a bit blurry.
This is my first Niven novel and, given his popularity, I have to assume its not one of his better works.
There was also that annoying streak of fascism that surfaces so often in science-fiction, particularly that of the "Old Masters." Both oppressor and oppressed alike seem the recognize a need for capital punishment and concealing from the public the true circumstances surrounding it.
It is up to extraordinary individuals to make rational choices about what is good for the common man.I give it three stars for its solid prose and the imaginative story that kept me reading despite the above-mentioned flaws.
Still, maybe I should have begun with "Ringworld."
The class conflict and rebellion,I liked the whole organ bank angle used by the upper class (crew) as power to enforce control over the lower class (colonist.) The book reads like good old fashion pulp.There is the problem of the weird eye ability the protagonist has, giving him the ability of becoming not quite invisible but rather forgettable as way of outsmarting his antagonists as well (as keeping him a virgin.) This element was a poor attempt at trying to put in a "new-wave" element into the book?
Hardly.Over all, it was a fine read, but Niven gets better real quick.

A lot of the parts that make up this story just don't seem to fit together very well. It's a story about a space colony on a mostly uninhabitable world; It's a story about a guy with a strange power that makes others forget about him; It's a story about an imbalance of power and a warped justice system that executes you for jaywalking to fill the organ banks. It also ends with an epilogue that has very little to do with the story that just unfolded. Despite this, there's lots of action and thought-provoking dialogs.

Criminals of the "lower" class are going to the "organ banks."If you're against it, then you're a criminal.A herd of rebels is gathering together,making themselves easy meat for the police...(view spoiler)[But, lo, they've invited to the party some 'screen' guests,and there's a 'psychic virgin' among them, who finallyloses his 'virginity,' but nonetheless keeps his 'psy,'and he is going to be their savior... (hide spoiler)]
Wading into Niven's catalog and purposely not choosing one his more praised novels at the outset, I found A Gift From Earth to be pretty boilerplate sci fi. Nothing special, but it wasn't a terrible novel. I don't have the option of 2.5 stars, so I just rounded down. The story was fairly predicable, but given that Niven's prose is very solid, I'm eager to get into Ringworld, Lucifer's Hammer, Integral Trees, etc.
Usually I enjoy Nevin’s books and like his characters, but A Gift from Earth was too long and the characters did not ring true. I couldn't understand their thinking or motivation. It ended abruptly with several short unrelated stories that I did not understand until reading some reviews for explanation. Tacking on the arrival of the Outsiders at the end added nothing to the story although integrating their arrival into the plot could have been interesting.
One of the first sf books I read - and I still remember as if it were yesterday. Mt Lookitthat. A world of haves and have-nots, privilege and deprivation, life ... and death. I notice that a few other reviewers have panned Niven for attempting to predict the far future, while failing abjectly to predict the near future. That's to miss the point. The main character in this book is the organ banks, and the main thread the propensity of governments to conflate profit and punishment.
I read this probably 30 years ago the first time. Since Niven has written more books in his "known space" series recently (over the past 5 to 10 years), I decided to re-read the books I had read long ago and thus had forgotten most of the details.30 years later, this is still an excellent book, and a great first book in the known space series. Highly recommended.
