https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40409898-an-american-childhood
She leaves it up to the listener to interpret the lines, to recognize the subtle humor.
I loved this book because of the wisdom of the author, what she says about growing up, the process, the path.
I loved the beauty of the lines.
I also loved this book because I am a child of the 50s just as the author is.
You get the history of Pittsburgh, the red scare of the fifties and the books we all read.
Books our parents loved and believed in and so molded not only them but also their kids, us!
An American Childhood reads more like the perusal of a family photo album than of a true memoir (for example Nabokov's Speak, Memory wherein the autobiographical content seems almost peripheral to the feeling-out of the Self and of the rapture of Time).The memoir begins with, what I believe, is its greatest sequence: the story of young Annie's father's intended but incomplete trip down the Ohio River.
Isn't this really the American Childhood, if not ultimately the American Life?
Annie's father and his trip down the Ohio, that is what the American story should be, what it was once.
I knew it was a memoir, and although I am not the biggest nonfiction fan, I started it with an open mind, expecting to come away with some frame of reference about Dillard's life and times growing up as a child in the 1950s.
It becomes fairly evident that the advanced, intelligent child that she tries to sell as absolute fact is nothing more than the construct of a pretentious author who set out to write a memoir only to realize that she didn't really remember much of her childhood and so she had to fill in the gaps with her own, current beliefs and views.
Some of her memories seem like my own, and this is one of those great reads as an adult where you feel the reality of a book blending with your soul.
I pity those who have only surfed the web, and haven't read by flashlight under their covers, or stalled their mothers demands with "One more chapter!"Annie Dillard remembers and her memories become yours, and you suddenly KNOW what it is to feel childhood turning to young adulthood, and how observation and experience become knowledge and wisdom.She is a poet, and a salty honest woman, and I am glad to have walked in her pages.
Her self-stated project is to show how a child “wakes up” to life, moving from the self-absorbed now-ness of early childhood to the rumblings of consciousness, the awareness that one is alive.
I noticed this process of waking, and predicted with terrifying logic that one of these years not far away I would be awake continuously and never slip back, and never be free of myself again." As Samuel Hazo and other critics have noted, Dillard’s autobiography works best in its earlier chapters where she focuses on her childhood; her depiction of her adolescence often comes closer to caricature than characterization.Partially adapted from a prior publication
Annie Dillard grew up in Pittsburgh during the 1950s, and she captured those days in this memoir, documenting her childhood, while also detailing the rich history of Pittsburgh--I especially loved the information on Andrew Carnegie and of Pittsburgh's wealth which came from, "aluminum, glass, coke, electricity, copper, natural gas--and the banking and transportation industries that put up the money and moved the goods." Reading with the expectation of drama does not get you anywhere because Dillard did not have a dramatic childhood.
Like Pilgrim though, I had a hard time really getting to fully see Annie Dillard, she has a way of giving you just enough, then withdrawing.
The first time or two were when I wanted to throw the book across the room, had it had enough heft to make that enjoyable.
almost anything.I read her first, or one of her first books, Pilgrim at Tinker's Creek, which got a lot of press when it first appeared.
Once upon a time, people who wrote memoirs could at least make a claim on your attention for something exceptional about their lives.
This book reads as a lonnnggg exercise in monologue -- by someone from whom the reader keeps waiting for a clue about why.....
I wonder what my mother would make of An American Childhood?I recently listened to The Writing Life and was fascinated as Dillard described her writing studio, complete with a collection of stones and bones that she worries in her hands like talismans when daydreaming on her cot.
They know the neighborhood, they can read and write English, they are old hands at the commonplace mysteries, and yet they feel themselves to have just stepped off the boat, just converged with their bodies, just flown down from a trance, to lodge in an eerily familiar life already well under way.I woke in bits, like all children, piecemeal over the years.
I chose this one for the Book Discussion group because I was looking for a memoir and I remembered really liking this when I read it 21 years ago on the eve of Gabe's birth.
I liked it just as much the second time around and reading it again now, on the eve of Gabe's transition into adulthood, made me realize what an impact this book has had on my life and the way I have raised my children.
Looking back on my sons' childhoods, I think they are a little closer to Dillard's than mine was.
Merveilleuse lecture!Je suis impressionnée par l'intelligence de cette femme qui raconte son enfance
"What can we make of the inexpressible joy of children?
It is a kind of gratitude, I think—the gratitude of the ten-year-old who wakes to her own energy and the brisk challenge of the world.
You thought you knew the place and all its routines, but you see you hadn’t known.
Whole stacks at the library held books devoted to things you knew nothing about.
"“Private life, book life, took place where words met imagination without passing through the world.” I could just pack this little review with quotes.
What a joy this memoir is and it really captures the wonder of childhood, unlike anything else I have read.
This is a lie, I didn't finish this, but I feel like I've spent too much time on this book and it's going to push me into a reading slump.
And that's fantastic and all, but ask this, "Do I really want to read about your childhood?" What is it about your childhood that makes it worthy of being written down and published?
Maybe I stopped too soon or whatever (65% I think) but like, if I'm already past the halfway point of your book, I should have at least gotten an inkling of your purpose in writing this book.
I liked that contemporary window into the Salk polio vaccine trials.
“In 1953, Jonas Salk’s Virus Research Laboratory at the University of Pittsburgh had produced a controversial vaccine for polio.
It was too quick, said medical colleagues nationwide: Salk had gone public without first publishing everything in the journals.
Salk was after personal glory, they said.
Salk was after money, they said.
Salk was after money, they said.
Salk was after big prizes.Salk tested the serum on five thousand Pittsburgh school-children, of whom I was three, because I kept changing elementary schools.
Our parents, like ninety-five percent of all Pittsburgh parents, signed the consent forms.
I couldn't put her memoir down.
Born in 1950 to her parents, Frank and Pam, Dillard tells us vignettes of her life-- first part focused on her childhood and her family; second part covers her preteen and teenage years; and the last section when she rebels (quits, and later returns, her Presbyterian Church.) The Epilogue reflects her adulthood.
What I loved most was how she shared vivid memories of her life, which in some cases brought back some of my childhood memories.
Great writer, great memoir!
this book was too boring, couldn't finish it. Pilgrim at Tinker Creek was good, there were a few redeeming parts, but this one just felt like someone was holding me hostage at a party, telling me stories from their childhood that I couldn't care less about.
A lovely, maddening book.
It’s not the suspenseful or exotic or tragic kind of autobiography that kept me turning pages well past my bedtime, but it did capture certain childhood longings and sensations with such clear familiarity, that it felt at times like reading pages out of my own life.
Every time I read her magnificent prose, I’m filled with an admiration that borders on envy.
But. At the same time, she, as a character, is terribly hard to love in this book.
Every person in her life—even her loving and lively parents—still somehow come across as distant and even cold.
magnifique lecture. un ode à la jeunesse et à la naïveté, à la nature et à la littérature, bien sûr. bien que quelques passages m'ont moins portés, l'habileté de dillard à fsire ressurgir des souvenirs et de les imbriquer pour leur donner sens est délicieuse. cette auteure me fascine déjà !
Excellent. I think anyone who is curious and bookish would love Annie Dillard.

Though I would like to hear her tell about her life after her childhood and teen years, I feel as if I almost know her in person.Annie was born in 1945.
your handlebars twisted in your hands and threw you like a wrestler.""I wanted to notice everything, as Holmes had, and remember it all, as no one had before.""Knowing you are alive is feeling the planet buck under you, rear, kick, and try to throw you .
Last summer I read Pilgrim at Tinker Creek for the second time, and this time it made sense, not just intellectually- though it was intellectually gratifying-but this time somewhere in my soul.So I approached _An American Childhood_ with expectation, and I was not disappointed.
Dillard manages to create a memoir at once both nostalgic and brutally honest, hazy but precise, idealized yet imperfect--as though this is what it means to be American.I read the book slowly and languorously over a number of months, picking it up when I wanted to chew on experience or savor language.
With her, we want our rough edges "to cut a hole in the world's surface."
There is so much to say, I can’t say much at all. I can count on one hand the books and writers I have read that have provided me a profound and transformative experience. This is one of those books for me. I’m grateful. I will read this again and again throughout my life. It’s a thinking book, an intimate book of the heart and mind, best read slowly.
I wrote about this book in my blog this week: https://www.shirleyshowalter.com/lear...
This book captures the steel town industrial look and rolling hills of Pittsburgh and the nostalgia of growing up with vibrancy and extremely well-written characters and scenery. I loved it, I'm glad I found a copy of it. :)
This is my second Annie Dillard and I had the same two conflicting feelings reading both books: One is that some of the passages are just so beautiful.
The other is that she seems to be putting on airs or showing off in writing instead of just communicating clearly.
The book is about a certain kind of childhood in a bygone era.
It's lovely and self-aware.
She perfectly captures what she felt like as a child, but I really could not relate with any of it.
I don't know if it's because my childhood was so drastically different or it's because she isn't going for connection, but more for display.
I expected a "good old days" vibe about how amazing childhood was BACK THEN. But really Annie Dillard managed to encompass what is universal while maintaining a truly personal narrative. This is a beautiful, and beautifully written book.
This was a delightful read that brought back wonderful memories of living in Pittsburgh. It was a wonderful chance to get into Dillard's childhood head. I'd give it 3.75 if I could as it had some less captivating moments, but overall an enjoyable read.
that said, i have real trouble believing anyone's childhood was idyllic as the world described in annie dillard's an american childhood.i loved the author's earlier pilgrim at tinker creek, which provided an acute, worm's-eye view of the natural world around us.
this is certainly not the sort of book i would ever fault anyone for enjoying, but i found none of the wonder i had anticipated after reading pilgrim at tinker creek.
After reading An American Childhood I should go back and read Pilgrim again.You could open this book randomly to any page and likely find a great paragraph that by itself might make it worth reading the book.
That's what we called the stuck up kids when I was growing up.As I was reading about this high class, high strung life, I was also thinking about the book Nickel and Dimed (Barbara Ehrenreich) and the low income world that book attempts to portray from the artificial work experiences of another priviledged person.
I was hooked from the very first sentence:"When everything else has gone from my brain—the President's name, the state capitals, the neighborhoods where I lived, and then my own name and what it was on earth I sought, and then at length the faces of my friends, and finally the faces of my family—when all this has dissolved, what will be left, I believe, is topology: the dreaming memory of land as it lay this way and that."And how could she not think that, having grown up in Pittsburgh, the city carved into place by the confluence of three rivers?
You're better off reading it and living this other childhood from Pittsburgh in the 1950s.
