https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18032.Jeeves_and_the_Tie_That_Binds
Much Obliged, Jeeves is one of Wodehouse's last books in the Jeeves & Wooster series, just when it's starting to show some life after so many books by rote.The usual plot and characters are all in order.
Hovering about the periphery is the all-knowing, gentleman's gentleman extraordinaire Jeeves, ready to extract his master and set all to rights.Where this book differs from other Wodehouses is in the little details.
I only wish Wodehouse had started this process and expanded upon it years, nay, decades prior.In summary, Much Obliged, Jeeves is a solid book in the series, but if you're a newcomer, I'd suggest starting somewhere earlier.
I was going through the Jeeves/ Wooster list on my GR bookshelf and found that I had missed out adding this book!
The tome in question is stolen by a renegade valet and creates all sorts of havoc before it is reclaimed by Jeeves.
I was thinking that if such a thing really existed today, how the news channels will be slavering after it!Trivia:It is in this novel that we hear Jeeves's first name for the first and last time.
P.G. Wodehouse was ninety years old when "Much Obliged, Jeeves" was published in 1971 and it is the penultimate Jeeves and Wooster novel.
This was the first time I had read this particular Wodehouse book.
Wooster blunders around, narrowly avoiding engagements that threaten his bachelor lifestyle whilst Jeeves dispenses his learning, bon mots and quiet wit, whilst simultaneously ensuring his master’s mishaps are quietly and efficiently solved.How P.G. Wodehouse maintained his supreme level of quality is one of the great mysteries, however, even at the tail end of the Jeeves and Wooster series, he kept the magic to the now familiar levels of brilliance.Suffice it to say that, if you don’t know why so many people worship at the comedic altar of PGW, this novel will reveal all.4/5
Good lord, Jeeves has a first name.
No, don't just skip right by that sentence.
Really take a minute.
JEEVES HAS A FIRST NAME.
It never even occurred to me that he might.
It doesn't seem like the sort of possession Jeeves would own; I feel as if I'd caught him cuddling a Beanie Baby or something.
Honestly, this would have been worth reading just to discover this little bit of trivia, but even without that it's a fine Wodehousian romp; not my favorite of the Woosters, but very entertaining all the same.
Either you like Bertie Wooster and Jeeves or you don’t.
There isn’t much in between.
This is not the first of these books I have read but the first Wodehouse that I have reviewed.The gifted Bernard Cornwell (many of whose books I have reviewed) was recently quoted as saying that Wodehouse “…wrote the most English novels ever written.” I would add that he did so while skewering many of the class lines, traditions and manners that we find so familiar.It can be argued that one Wooster and Jeeves is much like the next…and it’s true that Wodehouse has only “rearranged the furniture” among a limited number of plot elements to wit:Wooster is requested to do what turns out to be an impossible favor for a chumWooster is stuck with an impossible relativeWooster finds himself about to marry an impossible womanAnd…………eventually Jeeves is there to guide him through the minefieldIt’s the journey, full of upper-class twits; hilarious names and nick-names; wonderful quotes and literary references; and, always, Bertie’s self-confident, yet illogical, reasoning.This is one of Wodehouse’s last efforts but it still hits the mark.
The book read like a montage to Bertie and Jeeves with a handful of references to the best parts of their previous adventures.
And yet, it has you in splits - like any good thing in ration.Bertie wakes up on top of the world, with a rainbow between his shoulders - And we know thunderstorm is imminent.
Bertie's safely engaged lady terrors threaten to come unhinged towards him and his 'reputation' for pinching stuff threatening the good name of Woosters.
With the typical atypical muddle that are characteristic of Bertie and Jeeves and featuring a near all star cast, this book written by PGW in his 90s is a riot.
May be because the master wrote this in his nineties, he couldn't match his own towering standards.
Wodehouse's usual bubbling vigour was less-pronounced, the comic possibilities were under-explored, there was an over-reliance on Bertie's stammering and word-groping, and even some of his trademark daft turns of phrase seemed subdued and laborious.
In many parts I couldn't shake off a slightly depressing feeling akin to watching my favorite cricketer past his prime and struggling to put bat on ball.
Apparently even a half-good Wodehouse is still good enough for a potent de-stressing potion.P.S.
Much Obliged, Jeeves first published in 1971 in the UK and in the same year in the USA by alternative title Jeeves and the Tie That Binds is second to last in the Jeeves & Wooster series.The two editions have slightly different endings.
In the USA edition after Jeeves informs that he has destroyed the 18 pages from the Junior Ganymede Club Book that he has written about Bertie, Jeeves express hope that he will stay in Bertie's service permanently.
Here it is: “…For I may hope, may I not, sir, that you will allow me to remain permanently in your service?”“You may indeed, Jeeves.
Dear Mr. Wodehouse -Thank you for the delightful visit to a time when the sun never set on the British empire and a wealthy idiot could spend his days at his aunt's estate in the English countryside and only worry about avoiding becoming engaged. It was lovely spending a few hours with the best gentlemen's gentlemen ever and that dear fool Bertie. Thank you for not aging them or trying to make them modern. ~A~
I just had to squeeze in a Wodehouse for Christmas, and how wonderful it was. I can't believe I almost finished the Jeeves and Wooster series (woe and woe upon woe); when the fatal moment inevitably arrives, I'll be seeking solace in the Blandings Castle series.
What makes this fascinating to your humble reader in 2014 is that hailing from the same kind of stock, having gone to the same type of schools and being basically interchangeable is one of the (many, many, many) things we criticise our modern British politicians for.
Perhaps more likely is that this is the way he remembered the political classes from his time at home, that he always viewed the type of individual who sought political power as basically interchangeable.
Or possibly, given this is Wodehouse, he just didn’t really know how to write an oily fingered, ex mechanic, trade unionist.
This was my first Jeeves and it came at a good time.
I would never have picked it up, as I thought I had no interest in Wooster or Jeeves.
During an intense week of work, they provided lightness and levity.
Well-written with an incredible amount of detail, almost nothing really goes on.
Wooster has gone to his Aunt's house to canvas for a friend running for political office.
It seems that everyone wants to marry Wooster rather than the men they are betrothed to already.
Light and frothy, this series might be a good escape from everyday life and weighty, difficult subjects.
В который раз совершила ошибку и зачиталась Вудхаусом. Он хорош в любой ситуации, но в ограниченных количествах, и три романа подряд - совершенный перебор. А со стороны издательства было большим упущением публиковать под одной обложкой три романа про Мадлен, тетю Далию и Спода, да еще когда каждый следующий многословно описывает события предыдущего.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
The usual lunacy results, with some quick acting by Jeeves, of course, to straighten things out.Perhaps the most remarkable things about this book, given that it was written by Wodehouse at the age of 90, is how little the series has declined over the years.
Reading this book, coming from a lifetime of association with Bertie and Jeeves, I felt as if I’d had a slightly disappointing meal at an excellent steakhouse: not up to snuff, but still well worth the money and time expended.
Brilliant as usual.
Another great novel. Laugh out loud. Witty lines throughout. I love the characters and how Reginald Jeeves always finds solutions for Wooster’s tribulations. Ginger, Aunt Dahlia with her loud voice and aristocratic snorts whimsical and oddly believable characters. I am so glad that I have another 86 PG Wodehouse novels to read.
Every sentence is a delight. Jeeves and Wooster never fails to make you laugh out loud, which often results in concerned looks from one's co-workers, but a sentence or two read aloud will serve to enlighten them.
We learn this close to the start of the book and Bertie also comments that he had never thought of Jeeves having a first name either.Something else I only noticed in this novel is how much fish Wooster eats – kippers in the morning, and fish every night – and yet it is only Jeeves’ brain that seems to benefit from fishy-goodness.And no one does funny cats in quite the way the Wodehouse does!
During this novel, well, during the moments when I was not laughing, I couldn’t help thinking how dangerous it would seem to make Bertie the narrator of this series of books.

Astounding that in 1971 the master was still in top form.
I cannot usually remember which titles go with which story line as many characters appear in two or more books.
This is a sequel to one (I expect more than one) in which Bertram is in mortal danger of having to marry Madeleine Bassett, who thinks the stars are God's daisy chain.
He is got off the hook by Jeeves's subtly interposing Lord Sidcup, formerly known as Roderick ("hobnailed boots") Spode.
Though a thematic reprise, this is as fresh as can be.
I had remembered really enjoying this book when I read it several years ago, but then I think I let my mind do a number on me.
It's late Wodehouse, written when the master was 90, and most of the very late Wodehouse I've read seems very thin and forced.
The web of conflicting interests and alliances is woven as well as ever, Bertie Wooster is goodhearted but ineffectual, and Jeeves saves the day at the end.
And the last couple of pages contain perhaps the sweetest scene between Bertie and Jeeves that Wodehouse ever wrote.
Don't let the copyright date scare you off from this one.
The stakes were not as high for everyone's favorite man about town in this one , but the language and word play was as great as ever. Wodehouse wrote Jeeves stories for so long that you can see the stories modernize over the course of the series. This one is much more concise with fewer sidebars and asides than other entries in the collection.
Another hilarious story about Bertie and Jeeves! I find these to be the perfect choice to listen to when I am multi-tasking.
Hilarious, as I have come to expect of PG Wodehouse! Poor Bertie, being accused of stealing even when he isn't absconding with things.
Bertie and Jeeves are always fun!
Madeline Bassett, daughter of Sir Watkyn Bassett of Totleigh Towers, Glos., had long been under the impression that I was hopelessly in love with her and had given me to understand that if ever she had occasion to return her betrothed, Gussie Fink-Nottle, to store, she would marry me.
Which wouldn't have fitted in with my plans at all, she, though physically in the pin-up class, being as mushy a character as every broke biscuit, convinced that the stars are God's daisy chain and that every time a fairy blows its wee nose a baby is born.
He's gone and got himself affianced to the imperious Florence Craye, mercifully one of Bertie's previous engagements, happily aborted thanks only to the timely intervention of the incomparable Jeeves.Florence only backs a winner, so in order to win her approval Ginger must prove his mettle by becoming ensconced as the Conservative member of Parliament for straight-laced little Market Snodsbury, Aunt Dahlia's stomping ground.
P. Runkle: a 'stinker supreme'.Add to the soup the devious Bingley, an ex-butler turned man of property who had once worked for Bertie when Jeeves temporarily left him for insisting on 'playing the banjolele', and it's little wonder that the old Wooster visage is looking a little more sallow than usual.
‘Much Obliged, Jeeves’ brings the two longest running sagas through the Jeeves and Wooster stories together.
As Wodehouse points out ‘titles are to females like catnip is to cats’ and Madeline keen to be Lady Sidcup has made it clear she would become Madeline Wooster before she would become Madeline Spode.A political pot boiler to worthy of our own tabloid press, only Jeeves and Wodehouse will be able to scare up a happy ending.
Reading Wodehouse is pure bliss.
In his own words “I believe there are two ways of writing novels.
It's probably because you were born that way." "For a humorous novel you've got to have a scenario, and you've got to test it so that you know where the comedy comes in, where the situations come in … splitting it up into scenes (you can make a scene of almost anything) and have as little stuff in between as possible."Bandings castle and its characters is one the best of his creations.
