https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860559.Mystery_of_the_Ivory_Charm
Standard fare for this series...which wasn't a bad thing.
"...they caught enough to comprehend that Mrs Allison was speaking of reincarnation ."She's spooky ,"Bess commented ""Reincarnation means after you die you'll be reborn as another person or animal doesn't it ?""I'll probably be a goat ."George laughed .Typical George 😂😂💕
3.5 stars. This is one of the more confusing Nancy Drew books. I liked it but it was very difficult to understand what was going on (especially with Mrs. Allison) I would still recommend this book to anyone who likes Nancy Drew.
Before the dance, Nancy's like "I don't feel like going, take someone else," and Ned is like "FUCK THAT NOISE, it's you or no one, you know that boo."Ned also plays "look who just showed up to save your ass" several times in this book.
She goes weak in the knees after, but WHO WOULDN'T.-Finds the tunnel(s) under the house and boldly explores them.-Steals some important papers (which, she finds, prove Coya's lineage) from a weird gruff farmer.-Jumps in and saves Miss Allison after the dingbat tries to commit suicide by throwing herself off a bridge.-HAS LUNCH WITH THE EFFING FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES.
One of those Nancy Drew Mystery Stories with a really bizarre, surreal setting.
This time it's a mysterious abandoned house with no floors tricked out with a bunch of trapeze equipment and secret passages.
The mystery this time involves a little boy from India kidnapped and forced to join the circus, and it's pretty racist in a "it was 1936 and they didn't know any better but it's still gross and disappointing" way, which drags down the story a lot.
I don't know how I would deal with kids who want to read the original Nancy Drew books because the revisions can be really stupid and pat but the original 30s & 40s books can be appallingly racist.
I read all the Nancy Drew books (and the Hardy Boys) when I was a child, but I will admit that I have read them all again as an adult (a few years ago). The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
Nancy Drew returns for another mystery that even borders on the supernatural.
Another classic Nancy Drew, which my daughter loves hearing (I read these aloud to her) and which I read because my daughter loves hearing them. Follows the basic plot of almost all Nancy Drew stories, with the usual kidnappings and rescues (why do people always get kidnapped in these stories!), with the main plot circling around a mysterious boy from India and a "magical" ivory charm.
Overall I thought this was a pretty average Nancy Drew mystery. It didn’t really go anywhere, so I found myself to be kind of bored throughout it...Read more here!https://pointextaken.wordpress.com/20...Aubrey Joy
"It was a sunny, warm May afternoon. Nancy's strawberry-blond hair vividly contrasted her teal-blue convertible.""'You must be very careful about what you do or say,' the lawyer cautioned. 'You are getting into deep water.''Not so deep that I can't swim out.' Nancy smiled confidently."
It wasn’t terrible but it wasn’t great. It was a little confusing and all together just not the best book. I love Nancy Drew and I think I would recommend this book but there are better Nancy Drew’s to start with.
This mystery gave an interesting but brief introduction to India life and religion. A fast paced, light read breather book, I can't help but be excited in the conclusion.. the same way I felt when I first picked the book up in the 4th grade.
Yes, Rai later reveals himself to be the bad guy and ultimately taking Rishi from the circus leads to the discovery of the stolen jewels of the deposed maharajah and the return of the son to the true father but after that initial trip to the circus Nancy and her potentially criminal gang don't know all of this.
The series can be somewhat evenly split between books where someone (usually Carson but sometimes Ned or the cops) saves Nancy at the end and those when she outsmarts and captures the bad guys.
The Mystery of the Ivory Charm  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 13th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. While discovering the secret of an ivory elephant charm, Nancy and her friends work to reunite a boy from India with his true father. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love f
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
The Mystery of the Ivory Charm
The Mystery of the Ivory Charm
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
What a stupid book! Yes I understand that books cant be stupid but everything about this story was stupid. I was eager to read it because of the Indian angle but everything about it made no sense. Its one thing to bring orphan girls to stay at your home after getting to know them a bit but she just let Rishi stay,the very same day that she met him!And Mr Drew just picking up the phone and calling someone and asking for clothes which they get in an hours time delivered by the kind soul. Its mental!
I remember reading the revised reprint of this book as a kid, but I just finished the original, 1936 version, and it's nothing like what I remember. As far as the original versions of the Nancy Drew books go, this has to be one of the worst... and most painful. As much as I love the originals of this series, I would recommend skipping "The Mystery of the Ivory Charm."
A very interesting read.
(page 51) This last one I think is the biggest, Nancy and Bess came into Peter Putnam's house to look for Rishi because they had heard he was kidnapped there when they were captured by Rai, Rishi’s supposed to be father.
“He shall die slowly and in a manner befitting a Maharaja.” (page 171) Rishi and his real father had a great fortune.
(pages 167-177)	I recommend you read this book because it always leaves you with suspicions and new things they learn.
→ I did like the ending of the book because it had a happy ending for Rishi, his father, Nancy ,and her cousins George and Bess.
This is the 13th book in the Nancy Drew original series which like other earliar books had no silly narratives and hence had the potential to fully satisfy me.
The plot was simple, plain sailing with the right amount of adventure and thrill.I had been waiting to read this book for years since its based in India.The Nancy Drew original series are often based in different countries or atleast consists of diverse characters.This book talked about my country so I badly wanted to read it.The plotline looked like a 60's bollywood movie story, reuniting a lost father and son and talking about mysticism and charm.
I was super thrilled that Nancy had a mystery that involved India, and I enjoyed it immensely. However, there were some problems with stereotypical and two-dimensional characterizations, cultural appropriation, and a white savior complex, which is why it gets 4 stars instead of 5. I also cringe whenever I read about circuses because of their history of animal abuse and exploitation of marginalized people.
The thing that I love most about this particular Nancy Drew novel is that Nancy is invited to the White House to have tea with the First Lady - who at the time of the novel's original publication would have been Eleanor Roosevelt. The very idea of Nancy Drew and Eleanor Roosevelt having tea together fills me with delight! <3
I just read this book . I started it last night and I finished it mid evening today . Carolyn Keene is such an avid writer . I like the Nancy Drew books so much . This book was so good . I recommend this book and all others written in this series .
The Drews adopt a child and put him to work around the house instead of sending him to school. Hannah is racist. Ned is whipped. Nancy effortlessly charms a sorority and meets the first lady! And the bad guys receive speedy trials and are sentenced to long terms on an island prison.
Things must have been different when these were written, the happenings just don’t seem plausible sometimes. Still a good read, this series makes for quick reads in between longer books.
This Nancy Drew story is interesting enough, but is definitely one of the more far-fetched plots.
Enjoyable book for young girls.
It's fun reading through these childhood favorites!
This book is full of mysteries of the Īvory charm and adventures that happen with it. I would recommend this book!
In my desire to complete the entire Nancy Drew series, I persist and enjoy.
In a word, confusing. The plot was, in my opinion, a bit too ambitious and outside the normal range of logic. Also, the ultimate secret of the ivory charm turned out to be a bit of a letdown
