https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73064.Natural_Born_Charmer
All of the stars. I'm actually swooning over here.
I started the Chicago Star’s Series just a little over a month ago and I LOVED every single one of them.
I think what is so fantastic about this series is that with each story you get the expected and the unexpected.
Blue Bailey ~  what a little firecracker she was.
She was beautiful in her own way, sexy without knowing it and she was always true to herself.
He was a little cocky too but that was just the cherry on the Dean Robillard sundae.
In some ways Dean shared these feelings.
Dean and Blue loved to rile each other.
I checked my kindle account to see when I first read this series.
I recently re-read the series.
But all the others have been solid 5 stars for me.
I had originally five-starred it.
I think I would be the same if a certain rock-star that I adore suddenly turned up at my doorstep.
You look almost female.""Thanks.
I loved the banter between these two.DEAN ROBILLARD
True, there were the gay boots and those stunning good looks.
We have the secondary story going on too - Jack and April, Riley, the townspeople.
Jack was 54 and he was smoking hot.APRILJack and April ...
In a headless beaver costume walking down a deserted highway and his life was forever changed when he offered her a ride....for better or for worse he's still not quite sure.You see Dean's a pretty boy, he's a NFL star quarterback, gorgeous, has impeccible style and is obviously rich...he's also used to getting everything he wants.....or so we think.
This is the second time I've read this book and I will say I LOVED it even more this time around!!!!This is one of my most favorite books EVER written!!!!!!!!!It could be read as a stand alone but I think you would benefit from reading the entire series.
Review to come.
5 Charming Stars! Wasn't so sure if I would like Dean...and I didn't...I LOVED HIM!!A Gypsy Caravan...  A Flashlight...  and Dean Robillard...SWOON!  Equals sexy good times...wow that was HOT!I got more than I bargained for with this book, it was way more than just a contemporary romance. This book was about family, mending relationships, and building new ones. The witty banter had me snickering, especially the verbal smack-downs between Blue and Nita...hysterical. Finally, however, Blue was be
An old lady’s car.” “I was expecting a broomstick,” Blue muttered, taking in the dusty dashboard.
A good thirty minutes should take care of it.”Then the beautiful relationship that Riley forms with Nita, a friendship that defies their ages, it was lovely.
Lots going on, but at the core are Dean and Blue, two people who never imagined that they could work as a couple, but they do in a big way.
As they learn to trust and lean on each other, find what they've been looking for all of their lives, it read like a modern day fairytale!
I don’t care how many she writes… I’m sure I’ll read and love them all!
Although, Dean’s had a recent injury to his shoulder, and the perfect image he’s had of himself and his career is finally starting to crack.
He’s made sure of that.
Blue Bailey, said beaver, is a thirty year old struggling artist who Dean picks up on the highway outside of Denver, wearing a headless beaver costume and cursing like a sailor.
I really LOVED Blue.
This girl was strong willed, hot-headed, and funny as hell.
If I could have read this book in one sitting I would have.
3,5 "Charm Me" Stars Dean Robillard and Blue Bailey couldn't be more different, but destiny has devised a Colorado road and a beaver costume to have their path cross. NFL hunky golden boy meets quirky bohemian girl and from there on it's all a fun romantic romp taking them eastward to a Tennessee farm where a bit of family drama and a lot of sizzling chemistry will bring them together, while Dean's glamorous lifestyle and Blue's restlessness will try to keep them apart.Engaging writing and spar
Dean Robillard and Blue Bailey couldn't be more different, but destiny has devised a Colorado road and a beaver costume to have their path cross.
Dean and Blue's story is full of both exciting and moving memorable moments, their energy leaps off the pages and most of their banters are a hoot, especially her dry retorts sending him down a notch or two, which he definitely needs.The dialogues really shine and also the secondary cast of characters makes for a well-drawn and colourful parade on a vividly portrayed setting with hints of small town atmosphere.
It was insanely good.It’s been a while since I laughed so much from reading a book.
Susan Elizabeth Phillips always writes a good emotional story.Loved the endless verbal sparring between Dean and Blue.
Or two.It’s cruel of Dean to use the poor girl (Blue) only for getting some distance between women who harass him, fans and nosy people.
Yes I know you’re thinking I lost my mind for saying this but the kid is actually mature and intelligent.
Loved the story, the characters were as usual messed up in the head and just plain awesome.
My life is currently too crazy to sit and read, so I popped in my ear buds and tried the audiobook this time, narrated by the wonderful Anna Fields.
I have heard nothing but great things about this reader, so I don’t know why I waited so long to listen to a story she narrates.
I love these characters in the seventh book of the  Chicago Stars series and I adore their love story.
Ms. Phillips also knows how to write amazing secondary characters and these are some of her best.
Could a book makes you deliriously happy? I mean, really. But then, this book did it for me. I grin like a fool after reading this book. I feel deliriously happy it was ridiculous. After all, it is just a book. Not just any book , though. It's the latest one from the Chicago Stars series. And I love every single second of it! I really do. It makes me sigh with longing to have what Blue and Dean have with each other. Pathetic, I know. But the book done that to me. Better than fairy tale.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro Ahora mismo estoy con el subidón de haberlo leído y disfrutado tanto que no puedo darle menos. Me echaría a llorar por haber terminado la serie si no fuera porque 1. en unos días sale el siguiente libro, 2. me los puedo releer y revivir siempre que quiera y 3. estoy tan sensiblona que hasta lloraría con un anuncio del Decathlon.VIVA SEP!!
After just having listened to Match Me If You Can, I was excited to get Dean's story.Each book is about a different couple and can be read as a standalone.
This is Dean and Blue's story, but what I loved it that is it wasn't just about them.
Blue convinced Dean to take her to Tennessee with him and it was a good thing because when they arrive, Dean is surprised to find his mother, April, at his farm.
Later, Dean's half sister, Riley shows up on his farm.
When he shows up later to pick up Riley, it's one big family reunion for Dean.
I thought the story premise was terrific but the author seemed to suffer quite a bit from the "lets see how many crazy/quirky characters we can stuff in one book" syndrome.
There were too many extreme characters, too many plot lines happening and the heroine was just plain odd.
What if you took a famous football player, give him a rock star dad, a groupie mom, a fat low self esteemed little sister, a plain looking badly dressed heroine with no job and no money, her guerrilla hippy mother and slovenly super rich widow who hates everyone-throw them all together in a little farm town and lets see what happens.
♥♥♥Beautiful and emotionally fantastic family read! This book will always be one of my favorites♥♥♥  I'M JUST SO HAPPY RITE NOW !!!YEAAAA ! A FIVE STAR ! LOL feels good :DAHmazing continuation to this fabulous and fun series !! LOVED the whole family to pieces ! especially Dean's parents (Jack & April )and good old Mrs.granier!!!
Od jako zabavnog početka do srećnog kraja, nisam mogla da je ispustim iz ruku. Obožavam ovaj serijal! ♥
Written September 19, 2014 4.1 Stars - I love this authors style and characters - guaranteed easygoing, heartwarming cute and good outside-in.Book #7January 2014 — Nika (5 stars) told me Natural Born Charmer is the best one in this Chicago Stars series. We will see!!April 2014 — Kathleen recommended it as well. She does always know what I would like to read.September 2014 — I used my free coupon and downladed this 12 hours audiobook narrated by Anna Fields (..faultlessly).   There are already 92
Written September 19, 2014 4.1 Stars - I love this authors style and characters - guaranteed easygoing, heartwarming cute and good outside-in.Book #7January 2014 — Nika (5 stars) told me Natural Born Charmer is the best one in this Chicago Stars series.
...I agree with them (average: 4.13 stars).Natural Born Charmer is another wonderful, very well written, romantic great novel in this Chicago Stars (stand-alones) series.
For me is Natural Born Charmer a kind of low steam, romantic contemporary fiction novel.
An excellent narrator in Anna Fields and a charming and sweet American family story with a yummy nice love story.
3/4 Stars
4.5 stars!Including this book, I have only read two books by this author (the other is Dream a Little Dream) - and I have loved both! This may be a new favorite contemporary romance author for me. This book is so full of emotions, complex characters, relationships (both family, friends, and romantic), funny/witty/sarcastic dialogue - it really has it all! I'm adding this book to my favorites shelf. Highly recommended. Also, this is a really good audiobook.
“Life sure is easier when you're rich.""And a natural born charmer.
"It's the only thing we have in common.” I actually had this at a 4 because I added it to GR after I'd already read it many times.
But even though I haven't read it in a while I have to up this to a five since it's on my re-read list and is a good slump buster for me.
I've read this book so many times.
I'm not quite sure why I like it so much.
Maybe it's time for a re-read.
It's seriously good stuff!
READ IT!
Driving along the highway to visit his new farm in Tennessee, pro quarterback Dean Robillard spots a woman in a beaver costume walking along the side of the road and offers her a ride ...
But the road to love is never smooth, and traveling over those bumps and detours was great fun with this book.
Dean and Blue both have big-time family issues, plus the town where his farm is located is owned by one very cranky old lady, so the romance story also features a great supporting cast, all of whom have their own problems to iron out.
I really enjoyed the banter in this book - probably some of the best banter I've ever read. There was one scene in this entire book that I didn't like but overall, I really enjoyed this one and the whole series. I can't recommend this whole series enough - it's funny, sweet, emotional... it's just fantastic..
5 totally charming stars!!!I loved this story!! Actually I loved each installment of the Chicago Stars series and I'm anxiously awaiting the eighth book which is to be released in five short days. Or make that five long days!!! Susan Elizabeth Phillips can weave a tale and make you laugh as well as cry. She is one talented writer!!!
The best one yet. Hilariously unputdownable. And so sweet.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ 4 STARS ⭐⭐⭐⭐
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 4 STARS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
And so continues the book, through the most sizzling, emotion-draining summer for both of them.I know, I'm not revealing a lot, but I can say that it involves Dean's estranged parents, his half-sister, and a witchy old bat - all in a small town in Tennessee.
Lots of regret and resolutions and good stuff.I really liked Dean, despite all his flaws.
It stays true to SEP's formula, but it adds something different into the mix.-----------------------------------------------------June 16, 2009This was the first of her books that I've ever read.
The beaver marched right past, her big flat tail bouncing in the gravel, and her small, sharp nose stuck up in the air.
But emphasizing the superficial was a good way to keep people from getting any closer than he wanted them to be.Dean Robillard is not as interesting.
He's used to having women throw themselves at him so when this scruffy woman with bad hair and bad clothes tells him she isn't interested, he sees it as a challenge to his manhood.
It was good and a classic SEP story.There are enjoyable secondary characters and story is based on being family, forgiveness, making peace with one past mistakes and acceptance of one's own feelings and fears.
When I captured myself their building relationship and chemistry, scenes were changing and concentrated on other characters and after a while I adapted on family concept on the plot and romantic relationship with hero and heroine was like bonus.Overall I had really good time.
I loved all the characters.
If I give a point exact romantic perspective, it would be 2.5 stars.
Ho riso, ho amato i personaggi, odiato degli altri, ma tanto alla fine la Philips crea sempre un quadro perfetto, dove non è mai ciò che sembra.
Incontreranno anche la madre di Dean, un ex drogata non in buoni rapporti con il figlio.
Quando leggo un libro di questa autrice so che non ne rimarrò delusa.
L'unica cosa che non mi è piaciuta è stata la cover e il titolo: ho letto il libro perché conosco l'autrice, ma dalla cover e dal titolo non l'avrei mai aperto.CONTINUA SUL NOSTRO BLOG.
This book isn't perfect, and some of SEP's plot devices are repeats from other books, but my love for it is pure and strong. Why? For me, it's all about the characters, both Blue and Dean, but also Riley, Dean's parents, and Nita. I tend to whip through SEP's fun, funny books and, in the end, feel warm, tingly, happy and thoroughly satisfied. Love it! This one is my fave to date. It resonated.
