https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51790.Religion_and_Science
درود بر «برتراند راسل» بزرگ و خردمند و یادش همیشه در قلب و جان ما زنده و گرامی باددوستان گرانقدر، ای
‎درود بر «برتراند راسل» بزرگ و خردمند و یادش همیشه در قلب و جان ما زنده و گرامی باد‎دوستان گرانقدر، این کتاب از 10 فصل تشکیل شده است که زنده یاد «راسل» در خط به خط کتاب از فرصتی که داشته، بهترین بهره را برده است تا نکات زشت و سرشار از کارهای ضد انسانی که در ادیان مختلف به چشم میخورد را به انسانهایی که به دنبال آگاهی و خردگرایی هستند نشان داده و این را ثابت کند که دین مانع پیشرفت انسانها بوده و میباشد‎این اندیشمند بزرگ، با خرد و انسانیت خودش ثابت میکند که آنهایی که خودشان را نماینده های خدا بر زمین میدانستند و میدانند، همیشه سد راه پیشرفت علم و دانش بوده و هستند.
Russell has set the ball rolling with a provocative review, designed to tease and infuriate people with religious sympathies; he then proceeds to dispatch the resulting army of trolls, to the amusement of all those who consider themselves skeptical about religion.
A few people download the PDF and post reviews saying it's pretty damn good, and it proceeds to sell a fair number of copies.
Towards the end, though, it started getting more serious, and I was reminded that Russell was a good philosopher and an excellent logician.
But the younger continues his comparisons and in short time proves most of his elder brother’s claims about the world to be grotesque, deleterious superstitions.
The younger brother can make no real world comparison to his elder brother’s “feeling,” and thus the fraternal competition ends, the elder left grinning in self-righteous impotence while the younger busies himself with the salvation of mankind.For Bertrand Russell the elder brother is religion and the younger science.
Power, Russell rightly claims, “consists in being able to have intended effects,” and that ability is neither increased nor diminished by discovering what causes our intentions.Regarding the purpose of our cosmos, Russell rejects all doctrines that assert as much.
فى 26 فبراير 1616 تمت إدانة جاليليو إنه بيروج لنظرية كوبرنيكوس اللى هدمت نظرية بطليموس اللى كانت بتقول إنه الأرض مركز الكون وإنه الشمس بتدور حول الأرض ، وبعدين جى الإنجيل بعد كده وقال نفس الكلام وأصبح العلم مرتبط بنص دينى ..
"المصلح" الديني و مؤسس البروتستانتية التي تعتبر في المسيحية الجناح "الليبرالي العقلاني"!!!!!!وليست الكوارث الطبيعية فقط هى التي تعتبر حوادث إلهية بل الأمراض أيضا!"اعتقد الناس احيانا ان الامراض عقاب يوقعه الله على ارتكاب المعصية و لكنهم كانوا في الأغلب و الأعم ينسبون هذه الامراض إلى عمل الشياطين و من الممكن شفاء الأمراض عن طريق شفاعة القديسين إما بأشخاصهم أو عن طريق ما يخلفونه وراءهم من بقايا مقدسة و كذلك عن طريق الصلاة و الحج إلى بيت المقدس ..أما في حالة كون الشياطين سببا في الأمراض فيمكن الشفاء منها عن طريق طرد هذه الشياطين و الأرواح النجسة"للغرابة لازلنا حتى الآن نتحدث عن الرقية الشرعية و العلاج بالقرآن!!!


This book was no exception."Why in any case, this glorification of man?
They destroy fewer animals or human lives than we do, and they are much more beautiful than we are.
They manage the Corporate State much better than any Fascist.
Would not a world of nightingales and larks and deer be better than our human world of cruelty and injustice and war?
If I were granted omnipotence, and millions of years to experiment in, I should not think Man much to boast of as the final result of all my efforts."
I loved this book. The author first explains the conflict between science and religion and how scientists were prosecuted by religious entities. He speaks then about various topics that are very debatable like the soul, Sufism, free will, etc,, He states that science need a lot to answer but he is always winning the battles against religion.. He also explains many philosophical ideas that science don't need to answer. Interesting
عنوان یک: «علم و مذهب»، اثر: برتراند راسل؛ ترجمه: رضا مشایخی، نشر: تهران، کتابفروشی دهخدا، در ۱۷۵ ص، چاپ 1355، انتشارات عنوان دو: «نبرد دین با علم»، اثر: برتراند راسل؛ برگردان: «احمد ایرانی» و «علی اصغر مهاجر»، نشر: لس آنجلس، در 192 ص، چاپ سال 1993 میلادی،
عنوان یک: «علم و مذهب»، اثر: برتراند راسل؛ ترجمه: رضا مشایخی، نشر: تهران، کتابفروشی دهخدا، در ۱۷۵ ص، چاپ 1355، انتشارات عنوان دو: «نبرد دین با علم»، اثر: برتراند راسل؛ برگردان: «احمد ایرانی» و «علی اصغر مهاجر»‌، نشر: لس آنجلس، در 192 ص، چاپ سال 1993 میلادی،
8 (December 1922), p.2Another passage from early editions of his book Marriage and Morals (1929), which Russell later claimed to be referring only to environmental conditioning, and which he significantly modified in later editions, reads:In extreme cases there can be little doubt of the superiority of one race to another[...] It seems on the whole fair to regard Negroes as on the average inferior to white men, although for work in the tropics they are indispensable, so that their extermination (apart from the question of humanity) would be highly undesirable.—Bertrand Russell, Marriage and Morals, pg.
كعادة المنطقى برتراند راسل فى السرد لا يحيد عن الحقائق العلمية (فى عصره) كما يلتزم قدر الامكان لعله 
It's amazing how prescient Russell's insights from 70 years ago are even today. Many "philosophers" multiply words and leave you understanding less than when you met them. Russell is, first and foremost, an insightful thinker and clear writer.This is a quick read and covers religion and science, their separate spheres of importance and relevance, and their interplay over the centuries.
In spite of the title, the book provides readers more than just the conflict between science and religion. Bertrand Russell took us to explore soul, body, mysticism, logic, determinism and the relationship between science, ethic and education. Although I have read books regarding these issues before, this piece of writing refreshes what I've known and filled me with new angle to approach the the problems.
There is a rather repulsive smugness and self-complacency in the argument that man is so splendid as to be evidence of infinite wisdom and infinite power in his creator.It is, in fact, not by ethical theory, but by the cultivation of large and generous desires through intelligence, happiness, and freedom from fear, that men can be brought to act more than they do at present in a manner that is consistent with the general happiness of mankind.The warfare between science and Christian theology, in spite of an occasional skirmish on the outposts, is nearly ended.

El principio diáfano. El final mareante.
فأصبح عيسي والأنجيل في ناحية ، والكنيسة واللاهوت في ناحية أخري.ثانيها:أهمل برتراند راسل معظم الأديان الأخري وموقفها من العلم، الأمر الذي جعله يسقط في الغلو والتعميم واعتبار ان كل الأديان مُعارضة للعلم والتفكير وهذا ما جعله يذهب لوضع عنوان كتابه علي هذا الشكل، وإنما الأصح والحق أنه أن يكون "اللاهوت والعلم" .ثالثهما: في عرضه لفصل "العلم والأخلاق"، هو يعترف بأن العلم "ليس لديه ما يقول بشأن القيم"، وفي نفس الوقت يذهب إلي أن مشكلة القيم لا يُمكن لها بأي حال من الأحوال أن تُترك للدين، باعتبار أن الواعظ سيشرع وفق رغباته، ويذهب إلي القول "أن الذي يعجز العلم عن اكتشافه لا يستطيع البشر معرفته"!!هو بذلك يقرر ـبوعي أو بلا وعي ـ أن الاخلاق نسبية، تُنظر لها من منظور معرفي وعمومي، فالمصلحة العامة عنده تسبق المصلحة الشخصية، وهذا أمر ـ في حد ذاته ـ غير أخلاقي وغير إنساني.اعتقد بأن راسل كانت لديه مُشكلة مع رجال الدين أكثر منها مع الدين نفسه، وهذا الذي جعله يُسرع بعرض تلك الأفكار .وأخيرًا، أسجل موافقتي معه تمامًا في الفصل الأخير الذي ذهب إلي ان هناكجرائم كثيرة اتُكبت ضد الإنسانية باسم والعلم والفكر!!علي أية حال الكتاب مُكتظ بالأفكار الفلسفية الرائعة، وقد سجلّت المُلاحظات الكثيرة والمُقتطفات الفكرية التي تعمل العقل وتُغذيه بالفكر وتُنميه ..
With a title like "Religion and Science" one might be apt to believe that this is a book of comparative essays, conflicting viewpoints one might say.
Russell's point is well taken that while it is true that religious figures have played an important role in the sciences of the middle-ages, their intentions and motivations were not scientific, but rather religious in nature.The essays in this collection point out that intentions and motivations are both important and definitive with defining, comparing and contrasting religious and scientific viewpoints.
With is usual candor and british wit, Russell offers an easy to read and short collection of interesting essays.
Given the year it was written - 1935 - it is a profound book.
Analysis of the conflict between science and religion is basically as relevant as most of the modent writings, e.g. Dawkins and Harris.
Ideas are so fresh and relevant, it is amazing how precise Russell was about directions of science.
He even predicted neuroscience as a separate field.
Structure of the sentences is very complex and there are frequently many thought and points stuffed in one sentence, making it very had for comprehension.Still, an amazing piece of philosophy.
Russell's clarity alone is a reason to read this book, any time.The book is an easy read, articulate and entertaining. It's not a part of Russell's influential theories, rather an aside. Russell presents a history of refutations, from an analytical/scientific perspective, of arguments in favor of God's existence.Written in a style accessible to the large public, the book can serve as introduction to the controversy between religion and science, as well as offer an enjoyable moment to the reader familiarized with it.It's Russell, it won't disappoint unless you're looking for what he's not.
Not a lot to this one - I was surprised by how light on it was.
There were some themes I really would have liked to have heard more on.
He talks about Marxism (coming from Hegel) being based on Dialectics and this being somewhat similar to mysticism - all is one, everything is related to everything else - but does no more than mention this.I would have liked more detail and more depth.The thing I found most interesting about this was finding out that this book was written when Russell was in his 60s and therefore forms something close to the mid-point of his career.
كتاب ممتاز.. ينبغي ان يدرس في جامعاتنا.. يوسع المدارك و يحفز على التفكير .. مستنداً على تاريخ الصراع بين العلم و الدين خلال الاربع قرون الماضية و حتى وقتنا الحاضر.. و كيف انه في كل مرة انتصر العلم حين اختلف مع اللاهوت و النصوص الدينية.. وان العلم كان دائما يسعى للتخفيف من معاناة البشر كما حصل في الطب والفلك و الهندسة مقارنة بما يفعل تجار الوهم.الكتاب يستحق القراءة حتى وان اختلفت معه حول بعض التفاصيل و الافكار.
سرد سلس و منسجم لأقوى الصراعات التي حصلت في 4 قرون الأخيرة و ما زالت قائمة يطرح الكتاب المواضيع الهامة التي تتعلق بكلا الجانبين-العلم ، و الدين- و مناقشتهما و رؤية مدى تقدم الاراء في أي منهما حتى عصرنا الحالي كتاب شيق جدا ساعدني على الإبحار في مناطق يصعب تخيل وصوولها ، و اراء يستحيل طرقها و عرضها لمسائلة واقعية و مرنة هدفها الوصول لأقرب النقاط للحقيقة !
Quick read that clearly explains religion vs. science in terms of the domains in which they reside in the human experience. Science in testing for knowledge and religion in the spiritual realm. Russell contends that religion ought not attempt to make truth claims as science can potentially undermine with evidence if those assertions prove false.
"The harm that theology has done is not to create cruel impulses, but to give them the sanction of what professes to be lofty ethic, and to confer an apparently sacred character upon practices which have come down from more ignorant and barbarous times."
A shot gem. I absolutely recommend this book to anyone interested in science. It's a really short book, a page-turner and it definitely made a positive impact on my understanding of the topic.
The "original" and still the Greatest!!
Shows a distinct line between religion and science and why they cannot and should not be married.
It certainly is worth listening (or reading) to again and again. I'm gonna start with my second round right away...
التقييم قريباً، إن شاء الله.
