https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1430989.My_System
Nimzovitch was one of the people who helped create the positional school, and some of his maneuvering victories have to be seen to be believed.
You feel sorry for his opponents, who often appear to have not the slightest idea of what is going on.It was a shame that Nimzovitch didn't live to see Tigran Petrosian become World Champion.
He bitterly regretted the fact that he never reached the #1 position himself; Alekhine was just too good at attacking.
نوشتن یک رمان بدون چاشنی روانشناسانه مسخره است.همان اندازه که نوشتن یک رساله شطرنج بدون ارجاع دادن ب
This book has valuable information either for an amateur and a master chess player.
I believe the second part may be somehow dull and not pragmatic for beginners, as it was for me at the time, thus I recommend just a quick reading through, if you want go for it anyway.
This book is well known by its influence on World Champion Tigran Petrosian style of play, as "For infinitely many times have I analysed the games and positions from this book, and I liked very much to read it without chess.
thorough but dated
Sách gối đầu giường cho tất cả những người chơi cờ.
I admit though that if you were starting chess in 1960 it was much harder to find better books to teach you strategic ideas.
This book would then have had to be on your shopping list to buy or check out from a local library.
Jeremy Silman's "Reassess Your Chess, 4th edition" comes to mind immediately as being much superior and one should also check out "Secrets of Modern Chess Strategy" by John Watson and "Understanding Chess Move by Move" by John Nunn.
For instance, a threat cannot be stronger than it's execution.
Is it better to threaten checkmate or to deliver on the threat??
This is the edition I read, which is a large (bigger than trade) book with lots of room to annotate in the margins and really nicely printed diagrams.There isn't much I can say about Nimzo that others haven't said better.I will say that working my way through this book gave me a sense of confidence and direction in my game that was previously lacking. Having a solid plan in the game is everything, and Nimzo's My System will definitely help with that.Plus, the Nimzo-Indian is still pretty damned good in club games against 1.d4.
Written from 1925 - 1927 as separate journals, My System was the first grandmaster's book to be published. It is written in a lucid style and often uses metaphor and analogy to reinforce a tactical or strategical detail. Nimzowitsch's wry sense of humour also adds colour and a personal tone to the book, and while the analogies are of their time, they still ring true with a charming antique quality. And of course the tactics and strategies are core to playing Chess competently. Essential reading for lovers of the great game.http://bit.ly/1V3ery8
An excellent book - a true classic. The concepts and techniques are great. My only criticism is that I wish the writing was more prosaic. For example, page 19, "If I were running a race with someone, it would at least be a waste of precious time to stop in order to blow my nose, though there is nothing wrong with blowing one's nose". Some of these types of statements often made the points more difficult to understand.
The most charming educational chess book, a beginner-friendly, yet deep display of concepts and strategy. It's old, but with an old world charm, and its concepts are brilliantly expressed, often even with humour.
A very subtle book of instruction on the finer points of chess. Not really a book for beginners or even intermediates. There is also a tone of arrogance to it, as he seems to feel that he invented the game or something. Not really my favorite, but I may not have been quite ready for this one.
Wise and witty. The best book of chess instruction ever.
It's almost 90 years old and therefore there may be some ideas already outdated. Still, the best chess book I've ever read.
A classic, possibly the best book on chess I've ever read. Nimzowitch reveals the simple, pure positional chess style he was famous for, with unprecedented clear explanation and reason. Few other attempt to be an all-encompassing philosophy on how to play the game and how he saw the seeds of positional evolution in the most chaotic of situations. As one of the fathers of the hypermodern school, his mark on the development of chess theory cannot be understated, and this book perfectly encapsulates that positional genius which allowed him to revolutionise the game.
I am leading a study group as we navigate this book. Anyone can join the group at ...https://www.chess.com/blog/RMChess195...
Obviously a classic but rather a chaotic structure and Nimzowitsch comes across as bitter to the point of tedium.
Very good concepts explained in simple language with adequate examples. But variations predicted by nimzowitch may not be the best always. Some times Engines like Rybka, spike and AI Alpha Zero showing more concrete variations. But most of engine variations are difficult to calculate. So author's depth of knowledge about positional analysis came handy. Good read!!
Most players will find it essential to set up a board and follow the moves, as the lines can be quite long at times.At the end of the book is a collection of 50 games from master play that are used as examples of the author's explanations.
It is doubtful that he actually 'discovered' some of these ideas, but he get credit for exposing and teaching them to countless chess players over the decades.In addition, those who use a UCI (Universal Chess Interface) on the computer to follow lines and games can find these games (not text) online in .PGN format which saves a lot of time setting up a board and resetting positions after following a variation.I would call 
Der Klassiker des positionellen SchachNimzowitsch - Mein System, ist einer der Klassiker zum Thema positionelles Schach schlechthin.
Bei einigen seiner Beispiele ist die moderne Eröffnungstheorie zu anderen Ergebnissen gekommen, doch es geht ja auch nicht um ein Eröffnungs- sondern ein Mittelspielbuch.
Versteht man was Nimzowitsch sagt, so ist es auch nicht so schwierig zu verstehen, wann man von einer Regel abweichen muss.
Nimmt man dem Buch seinen dogmatischen Anspruch, ist es - nach wie vor - eines der besten in der Geschichte der Bücher zum Thema positionelles Schach.
Nimzowitsch described My System as a chess manual based "on entirely new principles." His idea that pawn masses at the center of the board might be a liability -- vulnerable to attack from the flanks -- was revolutionary, toppling verities and generating fierce resistance.
"The reward for my new ideas consisted of abuse," he wrote bitterly, "or at best systematic silence." Today, nearly a century later, he would delight to know that his hypermodern approach is widely accepted.
This book is perfect for any chess fan and is an instant classic.
I have heard it is a bit outdated tactic wise but it is the bases of many common theories today.
I learned a lot from studying and using the tactics in this book, it really helped my chess.
In chess everyone sees the same thing, it's how you view it that matters and how you see it.
you see moves that were never their before, new options, new tactics.
So in total, this book is recommended to any chess player, of any skill level.
This is the epitome of positional chess. It is an organized manner for the expert to transition into that of the master class player. This is not to say the book is without its own tactical surprises. Far from it! The blindswine and see-saw are covered in depth. I highly recommend reading this alongside a tactical book, such as the Art of Attack. A must for those serious about reaching candidate master strength.
The seminal chess strategy book which set the bar for all other chess books since. More than just chess, it's a high level view of the nature of struggles. People go crazy over Sun Tzu's "Art of War", but in my opinion Sun Tzu just offers mealy-mouthed platitudes, but Nimzowitsch offers genuine insight into deep questions, such as the difference between tactics and strategy, and the definition of a "threat", and the fundamental methods to cope with threats. A must-read for any chess player.
First chess book that I can say really helped me a lot. The fundamentals (part 1) are good for beginning players but the second part really helps paint the hypermodern school of thought for me. I had been taught and always played the classic school so when I started to really understand the hyper moderns I fell in love with them. As for the book, lists of pictures (we are all kids at heart haha), his writing is clear and pretty funny for, what to many, is a dry subject.
A simple yet effective approach to chess by one of the best and most famous players of the twentieth century. Nimzowitsch has been credited with starting a new school of modern chess theory. Definitely worth the read for those interested in the development of modern chess theory.
Are you uttering about  chess?  Chess is my favourite sport. I ❤ chess. So obviously how could I lose a chance in order to read it !?!?(•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•) (•◡•)
Un clásico y un poco pasado de moda.
Mr. Nimzowitsch was one of the chess greats. I'm reading this book for fun, I spotted one or two quirky games that should be interesting.
A classic chess tome and for good reason. One of the most important books that a beginner/intermediate chess player should read!
think as it is best chess book
