https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291364.Curious_George_Rides_a_Bike
Dostoevsky touched down on this theme in Crime & Punishment, but ultimately his 500+ page treatise on the subject is dwarfed by Rey’s unflinching exploration of the sociopathic mind in Curious George Rides a Bike.In Rey’s text, Curious George acquires a new responsibility after disobeying the man in the yellow hat.
But Rey’s text requires a dynamic between man and environment that is more complex, for George is a monkey who seemingly has no motive for his crimes.
But in a dystopian society where crime is rewarded, can we truly hold George accountable?
Listened to my niece read this to her son. I never read Curious George as a kid. A little horrifying with the circus coming to town and all the animals stuck in cages. Then again. it was nice you could give your kid a bike, leave for work, and then say "Stay close to home!"
Don't fob off the work for which you are responsible on a small monkey you just met. Moral of the story.
Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
As an added bonus, the book contains instructions for making paper boats, something that developed my husband's interest in origami.The storyline is a typical George adventure.
"The people from the other side of the street whose papers George made into boats were not angry with him any more." This transformation is not explained, and parents might want to add some instruction to clarify.
The negative is not a major emphasis of the book, so to me it is tolerable/ correctable, as the adventure and positives are so strong.
Man, old-ish children's books be cray.
My son from birth has always been surrounded with Curious George. Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay. He loves the cartoons on PBS as well. For me, I remember as a kid going to my ped. for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room. Luckily it was always available in the waiting room. A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&amp
Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay.
for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room.
A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&N that I thought would make a great Xmas gift for my son, and it included the Hospital book along with this one.
The simplicity and innocense of the time period when written is highly apparent which for me I want for my son.
Only one, very subtle, corncob pipe is being smoked in this book. I need to research photos of H. A. Rey smoking. He must have loved it. This book includes a great guide to making a newspaper boat or hat and now we must do so often before baths.
Apparently, if a monkey escapes from the zoo, you are allowed to keep it if you find it before the zookeepers do.A good deal of time appears to have passed since the previous book.
The paperboy notices this monkey on a bike and, deadbeat slacker that he is, has the brilliant idea of getting that monkey to finish his paper route.Jesus, at least in the previous book, George's employers were paying him.Predictably, George gets distracted almost immediately and doesn't finish the paper route.
Not the best George book, but good times, nonetheless.
George is given a bike by the Man with the Yellow Hat and his typical mischief ensues.
While riding along the shore, watching the boats, George hits a rock and dents his front wheel.
Being the talented monkey that he is he then rides the bike on just the back wheel, just then the circus caravan pulls into town and the ringmaster sees George and invites him to join the show.
While the reading level of this text is approximately third grade, Curious George books (in general) are useful for pre-reading skills due to the illustrations.
I remember Curious George fondly from my childhood, and I am now reading them to my daughter, who likes them equally well. She can relate all to well, I think, to a curious, naughty little monkey who gets in trouble despite a good heart...This is one of my favorites in the series, although now she will insist that we make paper boats, and I have special relation issues…alas…
Another hit with the 2 yo! I have really enjoyed reading the classic Curious George stories much more than the newer books.
While Curious George, taken in the context of a curiously over intelligent but playfully curious animal friend (not unique in the book world), is fun, Curious George and hundreds, if not thousands, of other books like it, deserve to have their social and historical background explained, never as excuses, but to give reference and information on how not to be a racist ethnocentric asshat.
We learn from our history, and this series is one of those that deserves to tell all of its history.
This book is racist.
The whole series is racist.
Summary: Curious George Rides a Bike is about a little monkey who gets a surprise from his owner in celebration of three years from being out of the jungle in the real world.
This surprise was a bike, George was so excited he decided to go for a ride.
George loses focus and starts making boats out of the newspaper to float down the river.
If George wouldn’t have gotten side tracked and gone to the river his bike wouldn't have broken.
Personal Response/ Recommendation: I love the Curious George series I think they are a great children’s books of adventure.
Book 3 deserves five stars because it involves a monkey who didn’t do what he was told to do.
George while riding his bicycle met a newsboy who took advantage of George and asked him to do his paper delivery work.
Of course he didn’t do what he was told.
The papers were made into boats and there is instructions to do that in the book.
The director decided to give him a job in the show but was mad with a George when he didn’t do what he was told.
Fortunately, George saves the Day by saving a life of an animal with his quick and creative thinking.
The man in the yellow hat gives George a bike for their three year anniversary together as friends.
George rides the bike around and a paper boy gives him a bag of newspapers to deliver with is bike.
George takes the bag but goes to the river instead.
While riding along the river George messes up the front tire of his bike but he remembers he can ride on one wheel and does so.
The circus people let George perform in the circus and that's where the man in the yellow hat finds him and then takes him back home.
It's a book about a monkey who rides his bike and the paper boy asks him to deliver his papers for him.
And he kept on delivering the papers and then he came to a river and then he decides to make paper boats with the newspapers.
And then he had an idea to ride his bike on the back wheel.
And then a circus truck came by and the people inside saw him and fixed his tire.
and I like the book.

George gets a bike which takes him on an adventure of mishaps.
He delivers newspapers, for while but loses interest to make paper boats, and then finds a traveling circus.
Although George has a knack for making trouble where ever he goes like breaking the bikes, losing the newspapers and feeding things to the ostrich, he also helps save a baby bear.
Everyone loves George again.George is a fun little monkey that always if good for an adventure of problems, but always seems to make peace in the end when helping out a friend in need.
It is a read with a happy ending.
This is a special book amidst all others in the CG stories. It has a nice balance of pictures and text for very young children and has images of bikes, newspapers, boats, ducks, and woodland and circus animals which youngsters can quickly identify with and remember. It has less text than other books in the CG series and can be understood even by solely looking at the illustrations. This is an excellent children's book for wide range of child age, including down to age 1.
It was a very good and short book that I read with my little brother. It was about curious george learning how to ride a bike. But once again, george abuses the privilege of the bike and goes beserk and makes "mistakes "again. But the yellow guy forgives him again
Read about the little monkey getting his first bike, and learning how to ride it. But of course, he will find some sort of trouble.
Benjamin loved this book along with the DVD.
Curious George rides a bike while helping out with a paper route. As usual, George's curiosity gets the best of him and he ends up in a silly situation.
Audiobook. Sawyer (5.5) enjoyed listening to this in the car and knew exactly how to turn the page to follow along.
This is a great book.
Abandoned George delivers papers then forced into a travelling circus
3.5
George is up to no good. Was hoping my kid would wanna ride his bike, since a monkey can.
Every child must read this book and have an adult read it to them.
