https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1350311.The_Bone_is_Pointed
Detective-Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte is a half-caste.
Given the choice to live a life as an aborigine or a white person.
To Napoleon Bonaparte, who is called Bony, this represents the intellect of the aborigine and dispels the myth that aborigines are inferior to whites.
Bony is sent by his superiors to solve the disappearance.
With all the rituals and beliefs of the Kalchut, tribe of aborigines, who take Bony closer to his heritage than mere words, the case evolves into a suspense of whose secret will be revealed first.
The Inspector has been frightfully ill with Barcoo sickness.
In this outing Bony is called to the bush country where a man went missing five months ago.
Bony must follow the clues along a trail long gone cold--but he is half aboriginal himself and knows the ways of the back country.
Can Bony fight the "boning" magic that most back country men believe can kill?
He'll have to if he's to get to the bottom of the disappearance of Anderson.This is a solid mystery novel.
He can't leave the case unsolved no matter how cold the trail, how few the clues, or how sick the "boning" makes him.
I have read all the "Bony" books before, but in this mystery the natural features of the Australian Outback are vivid and gritty. The migration of the rabbits (world gone mad) and the Aboriginal "pointing of the bone" make this like a lesson in natural history and anthropology. Done with the ever charming detective Napoleon Bonaparte, who's ancestry is part European and part Aborigine. Fascinating. Was there a TV series made based on these books? Arthur W.Upfield is the Tony Hillerman of Australia. I love all the books. Some are out of print but well worth finding through interlibrary loan.
Gordon gives away his slave-owner mentality when he says to the Aborigine raised in his home, who was instrumental in Gordon's being initiated as a full member of the tribe he "protects": "Don't you ever again persuade the Kalchut to act without my orders." Yes suh, mistah Johnny Boss, suh.Then there's the whole deal of Boney arguing with himself over the "boning" (ie cursing)--supposedly his white half is dominant and smart enough to keep him alive, but only just.
From what I read online, Upfield invented the whole "mental telepathy" thing, as this is the only reference to long distance killing by thought transference found re: Aboriginal magic.
If you haven't discovered Arthur Upfield--well, you'll love his setting. It's Australia in the 30's with a half-aborigine detective named Napoleon Bonaparte. The best of this series is THE BONE IS POINTED.
In this tale Bony appears as a Queensland C.I.B. detective on leave, turning up at an outback station where a rouseabout has gone missing during a storm.
His horse turns up at the station the morning after the storm riderless and there is no trace of Jack Anderson.
By the time a tracker can be found heavy rains have obliterated Anderson's tracks.During the story Bony becomes ill with the "Barcoo sickness" but station owner is convinced that the bones has been pointed at him.
Way out west, a man has disappeared. No one seems to have liked him. Bony arrives on the scene and is hit by a feeling of unease. Is he being followed, and by whom? Soon Bony is mentally struck down, knowing the bone has been pointed. Will Bony get his man, or die in the attempt. Obviously he doesn't, but as usual the story grabs the reader and just doesn't let up.
42 WORD REVIEW:This mystery doesn’t take much solving, but neither did many of Arthur Conan Doyle’s. As with Sherlock Holmes, it is the character of half-caste Aboriginal detective Napoleon Bonaparte that bewitches the reader, plus in this case Upfield’s vivid descriptions of outback Australia.
I love this series and this protagonist. Of the Napoleon Boneparte books, this is my favorite. I love the setting as well, and the element of the supernatural.
At one time I read a lot of Upfield and was hoping to enjoy this one. However, I found the book very slow and Boney no longer as appealing a character as before. Maybe I have outgrown this series.
Slow moving, but intentionally so. Interesting commentary on some bits of Australian history and race relations.
A fascinating view of the aboriginal culture as Bony has to survive a deadly curse while solving the mystery. The description of the rabbit migration showed another surprise of life in the bush.
Arthur Upfield was a British Australian in a time when British was understood to mean white.
His character for his mystery series, Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, is half Aboriginal.As a detective novel, it works.
On the one hand, Upfield makes clear his distaste for what the Europeans have done to the Aboriginals.
But I was left suspicious.Supporting that suspicion is Upfield's take on Bonaparte's striving for success.
And it is explained as something he would do to himself, not as a failure the whites would ascribe to his racial mix and damn him for.Perhaps for the time these were radical books.
I was constantly asking myself how an actual half or full aboriginal would have changed the story.
#6 in the Napoleon "Bony" Bonaparte series.
Everyone is polite but no one is helpful.Napoleon "Bony" Bonaparte - Jeffrey Anderson was a big man with a foul temper - a sadist, and an ugly drunk.
No one cared that no trace of the man could be found when his horse, an animal as mean as its owner, came home riderless.
No one except Detective Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, who is determined to solve the mystery when he is called into the case five months later.
What happened to Anderson, to his hat, to his stockwhip, to his horse's neck-rope?
It’s the first in the Bony series I’ve listened to, and I enjoyed it immensely except for a disquiet through the whole thing on the matter of race.
Are Bony’s feelings of internalised inferiority (due to having a black mother) meant to represent that author’s opinion?
Are they meant to show how some black people felt at the time?
It seems like an odd reason to follow a series, but otherwise it’s better than many of the cozy mysteries I’ve been reading recently.
It makes a great counterpoint to Phyrne Fisher, which I'm also reading.
I have devoted my gifts to the detection of crime, believing that when justice is sure the community is less troubled by the criminal.
Others, of course, have employed their gifts in amassing money, inventing bombs and guns and gases, even in picking winners on a racecourse.
Money, and the ownership of a huge leasehold property, does not make a man superior to another who happens to have been born a half-caste, and who has devoted his life to the detection of crime so that normal people should be safe from the abnormal and the subnormal individual" (51).
This is an author recommended by one of my friends on Paperback Swap and he does an awesome job of crafting an exciting mystery.
The main character is Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, half Aboriginal, who is sent to discover what happened to a man who disappeared checking fence and the herds.
Yes, he discovers what happened to the man and why.
Suffice it to say that it is so very good that I ordered another novel by this author featuring the same character.
My PBS friend says she has read every novel she can find by this author so I have wonderful reading experiences ahead of me.
I love the whole series written by Arthur Upfield, a pseudonym for two cousins who wrote these wonderful stories happening in the deep Australia, in the fifties. Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, who's mother is aboriginal and father is white, who is very unconventional in his methods and is at its best in the great open spaces where only farms and sheep and horses can be seen, takes us with hime to discover this country and the farmers with their hard life. Just by reading these stories, I wanted to visit Australia!
Most of the books in this series are set in or near towns or stations in the Australian bush.
The books offer a wonderful sense of place and culture of the time, good mysteries to solve, and a half-aboriginal, half-white police detective called Napoleon Bonaparte, a character in the Sherlock Holmes mold.
A few of the Napoleon Bonaparte books are set in larger towns or cities, but I think the books set in the bush are the best.
Their settings are more evocative and the main character is at his best in the bush.
I wish I could finish reading to the very end of this novel. But unfortunately the language of most characters was taking time to understand than concentrating with other details. Writing with the local Australian accent was not suitable for me. But in general it was a great plot with many details to distract the inspector (or after all, the reader), plus the beautiful description of the scenes.
In the first 5 books in the series, Bony works undercover. In this one everyone is aware that he is a (police) detective looking into the disappearance of a man several months earlier. The man's horse came back without him and no one has seen him since.The sections about the rabbit migration are going to give me nightmares!
Most of Upfield's Bony stories include interesting insights into aboriginal culture. This one brings the rancher/farmers together with the neighbouring aborigines in a complex plot. As usual, Bony uses his observational skills to solve the puzzling murder.
I really enjoyed this mystery. Bony is sent to Western Queensland to investigate the disappearance of a man which happened 5 months previously. Were the local aboriginal tribe responsible? If not who are they protecting?
A reader will learn a lot about the Australian outback by reading this book. Published in the 1940's, it's somewhat dated but well-written. The protagonist, Detective-Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, is a fascinating character.
I had never heard of Upfield until a friend told me about him. This is a very good book, dated, for sure, and loaded with the languages and prejudices of the time in which is was written. But it was a blast to read.
Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte is, in Australian lingo of the mid-20th century, a "half-caste." That is, he is half-Aborigine and half-white. Arthur Upfield might not have been the best mystery writer ever, but he did challenge white Australian stereotypes about the Aborigines.
I first read this book when I was in High School, it was a book on my English reading list. I enjoyed it then and some 40 years later this book still managed to keep me enthralled. With the plot being set in outback Australia this just added to the enjoyment and it was a great mystery read.
the first book of Upfield that i read and one of many by the original man of mystery in the Australian landscape
I love the use of 'native' Aussie 'things', the names of the natives, the description of the landscape, the rabbits, the boning...
Aboriginal shaman uses sympathetic magic in an attempt to harm Bony. This story goes into tribal beliefs and their interactions with whites in greater depth.
