https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6054449-dork-diaries-book-1
I thought I was getting Diary of a Wimpy Kid for girls but it's basically a whinefest with no substance.
Plus the whole thing is supposed to be a diary written by the girl but everything plays out in real time.
Like she'll talk about writing in her diary in the janitor's closet and then her friends come in and they leave but she's still telling the story like she wasn't just writing everything down.
Even though the Diary of a Wimpy Kid books decline a bit as they go, I'd recommend those instead.
Cute, cool & captivating!The heroine of this YA story is eighth-grader Nikki Maxwell, a cute, cool and captivating girl you will fall in love with.
And I predict she will captivate everyone who reads this book, young and old alike.But Nikki thinks of herself as a dork because rich, snooty MacKenzie Hollister and her wannabe followers go out of their way to make her appear that way.
These drawings by the author enhance this book, making it an unforgettable reading pleasure.I admire the way Nikki handles all the set-backs in her life; she never loses her temper, attacking MacKenzie as many girls would.
Dork Diaries is a great book. I recommend it to all girls who like excitement and longer books. Once you have read the first book you will want to read all the others
I’m a huge proponent of quality children’s literature, and this one just doesn’t do it.
I know that most children like these stories and the consensus is, as long as they’re reading something, that’s a good thing, right?
Again, I know hormones begin to rage in middle school, but to put it in the literature.
For two-thirds of the book it seems like Russell struggles to make the story interesting as the 14-year-old protagonist, Nikki Maxwell rambles on about nothing most of the time.
Gr 5-7 – The Dork Diaries details the life of 14 year old Nikki J.
Nikki’s angst as she deals with the school’s resident mean girl, her embarrassing parents, her crush on the hot boy and making new friends are all recorded alongside numerous sketches of her life.
All other characters in the book are shallow, thin and underdeveloped, including Nikki’s family and her new BFFs, Chloe and Zoey.
The numerous illustrations, while well drawn and periodically witty, are much too sophisticated to be believable as drawn by a 14 year old.
DNF AT 11% If this is how the youth of America think and act, we are doomed.
Nikki shares her fears, dreams, wishes, and frustrations with readers through daily entries in her diary and her funny drawings.
I would say the artwork is probably more similar in style to "The Absolute True Diary of a Part-time Indian," than the simple comic strip panels in "Diary of a Wimpy Kid." My favorite artwork from the book?
If you don't have an appreciation for wry humor based on the angst of middle school, then you probably won't like this book (or "Wimpy Kid" for that matter).
This is obviously a quick cash-in on the Wimpy Kid craze, and it shows.
Though derivative, I honestly wouldn't have minded a Wimpy Kid from the female perspective, but then I remembered - we already have that in the Amelia series by Marissa Moss, which is much better written and illustrated, and not to mention heartfelt.The Dork Diaries is painfully vapid and shallow, and our protagonist Nikki is not particularly likable.
I'm really not a fan of how she blames popular Mean Girl MacKenzie for a lot of her problems - especially her fear to register for avant-garde art contest - and I'm just tired of the Mean Girl trope anyway.
She is in love with her crush, she only has two best friends, a click of girls that hate her for no reason, a dream of becoming an Artist, annoying little sister, and lastly two big parties that she promised to go to on the same night and time.
When Nikki promises her little sisters teacher to volunteer for a party she doesn't know that it is on the same night as her eighth grade dance.
At Nikki's little sister party she is dressed up as a rat because it is a costume.
love
She thought that her mom got her one but realizes is just a diary.It’s not going to well at her school.
She doesn’t have any friends, and her locker is next to Mackenzie, the most popular girl at school and a CCP girl.
Nikki loves to draw and is going to sign up for the art competition.
Even though she wanted to do the art competition, she ends up making friends with two of the other library shelving assistants, Chloe and Zoey.
I loved how Nikki interacted with Brandon and how she coped with going to a new school.
This book is like another version of The Diary of a Wimpy Kid. They are both hilarious.
One of the ages I read in dork diaries cracked me up so badly I laughed out loud until my stomach hurt.
I just think that Nikki (the girl from Dork Diaries) is much much more funnier than Greg (the boy from The Diary of a Wimpy Kid.) I love the Dork Diaries.
If you are a person who has a huge sense of humor and loved The Diary of a Wimpy Kid then you will love this book.
Dork Diaries Tales from a Not so Fabulous Life is one of my favorite books.
I really loved the lintier book but my favorite part was when her dad had to go to some ones house to do an inspection because he is a bug inspector .He has to take Nikki and her sister Brianna because he had to pick them up from the movies.
If you do want to know read this amazing book Dork Diaries Tales from a Not so Fabulous Life!!(Don’t forget that this is the first in the series of two or three).
It was about a girl named Niki Maxwell who transferred to a new school.
She had a secret crush on a boy at her school, his name was Brandon Roberts, soon they became good friends.
She started to love her school because of all the good things that happened her.
My favorite thing that happened in Dork Diaries was when Brianna, Niki's little sister, had to go to the bathroom when her dad was at a job at a costumers house.
When Niki realized the costumers house was Mackenzie's house she tried to get Brianna to come out of the bathroom.
This book series captured my attention because it mentioned that it's sort of like the Diary of a Wimpy Kid. Based on this first book, I think it's a subtle version of the latter and it tackles bullying issues because of the antagonist Mackenzie. I would still finish reading all the books released so far in this series. But for now, I still prefer the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series because adult readers would enjoy them more. This Dork Diaries series is more appropriate for young female kids ages 12 and below.

I have not read The Diary of a Whimpy Kid series, which I'm thinking the books may be similar, except one is more for boys and one for girls.Either way, I got the book from my public library for my niece, who will be going to middle school next year (where has the time gone?) She went outside to play, so I started reading the book and really enjoyed it.
I think many kids, especially in middle school can relate to.
Just like snot."I will definitely have my niece read this book.
this book is for 9yo, but am 19 and i really enjoy reading it.
Come on people, it's not like art is easy, it takes years to perfect, and even then, it's still not perfect.).I could relate to character; Nikki was very believable.Without spoiling any major points, the plot is pretty much about a girl named Nikki Maxwell.
When I read this book, I thought "Were was this when I was in middle school?!" (looking on the back cover later, I realized it came out when I was in eighth grade.)It was like reading my life story, only with minor differences.
People can learn from this book; the title of "Queen Bee" may sound awesome, but really, it's an insult.
There's a mean girl at her school, apparently the most popular, named MacKenzie Hollister, and the two are, pretty much, archenemies.Throughout the book, Nikki talks the reader through what happened in school that day, and all the drama caused at- whoops, forgot to introduce the school's name(!)- the prep school, Westchester Country Days.
The story mostly wraps around an art competition called Avant-Garde Art.MacKenzie and Nikki both apply for the competition, and pretty much the whole school believes Kenzie will win.
Donate books for a tattoo.When the day of the art submission comes, Nikki rides to school in her dad's roach-car (Maxwell's extermination business thingy), yes the dreaded car she absolutely didn't want to be caught in, with her rad watercolor painting.
While I think reviews from parents (and avid YA book readers in general) are a good thing, for something like this I have to go to the source: my kid.Let me first say that M really didn't like Diary of a Wimpy Kid. She read the first one, liked it well enough, but never finish book two and that was that.
Whether the main character in Dork Diaries does so on a regular basis or not, M is able to see it play out in the book and discern for herself what's right and wrong.
If you want to know what happens next you have to read it SORRY!!!!This book connects with me becauseNikki is just like me because she is always beging her mom for a phone.Nikki is also like me because we are both very nice friends and very shy.Nkki is also like me because she always has big dreams for herself and her future.I would recommend this book to all the girls in this school because it is awesome and any girl will adore it!!!!
In addition,this other really popular girl HATES her with all her life.
Staying in this school has become a problem fro Nikki since her father is actually a pest control guy with a truck that has a huge bug on top of the truck- another reason she hates her life in this school.
She becomes popular for her amazingly good artwork and then it turns out that her friends entered the pictures of the body art she did in the big art garde art contest.
Nikki didnt sign up because she felt intimidated by the way the popular girl was showing off her cool fashion.
So Nikki didnt enter.
The book that started the obsession in the first place.
She wants to be accepted into the popular group but she believes that in order to do that she needs an expensive cell phone, a new wardrobe, and a new family.She finds out the hard way who her real friends are and how her mad skillz in art can help her be accepted.My fifth grade boys love DIARY OF A WIMPY KID, and this is a series I can introduce to my girls, which is written in the same style.
She isn't perfect but yet gets what is important in life.She has two great friends, who again aren't perfect, but are very realistic.
Do you like drama, exaggeration, or art?
Well this book has all of it.
Dork Diaries is a great book for tweens/teens girls.
You should read this book because the art work is amazing and the story line has a great story to tell.
*Spoiler Alert* There is a boy that Nikki (main character) likes and ends up with being boyfriend and girlfriend.
*More Spoiler Alerts* Nikki has " friends" that ditch her because of going with the popular kids.
Also her so-called friends got their popularity because of Nikki's artwork of Pen-Tattoos.
I. would. say. this. is. a diary. of. a. whimpy. kid. parady
Through sketches and diary entries, Nikki tells about her struggles being the new girl (/dork) at her brand-new private middle school (that she can only afford to go to because of the new school exterminator's, A.K.A. her DAD'S, contract), dealing with the mean girl that everyone at school seems to love EXCEPT Nikki, Mackenzie, who just so happens to hate her right back, and confessing the truth to her secret crush, Brandon.
Can Nikki defeat her arch rival?I recommend this great book about a girl facing the challenges of middle school to girls that like the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series.
How much worse can life get for Nikki?I've read the first few books in The Diary of a Wimpy Kid series and loved them.
When I found out about this series, I decided to give it a try since I greatly enjoyed The Diary of a Wimpy Kid. Dork Diaries is a lot like The Diary of a Wimpy Kid, but it is the girl version.
I think it is just as funny as Wimpy Kid and I enjoyed every second of reading it.
I couldn't put it down.I love the book and Nikki, even if she overacts to things.
The things she does are funny, though and her overacting.I think fans of Wimpy Kid will love this book.
Nikki has just started out at a brand new private school.
She is desperate to become part of the popular crowd, which is hard since she doesn't shop at the hottest mall shops and her dad drives a van with a giant roach on top.
Much like Greg from Wimpy Kid fame she tries several different ways to make sure that she joins the popular crowd and much like Greg her attempts almost never turn out quite the way she planned.
I can see this being very popular with the upper elementary/middle school crowd.
As if being new to a school and not having friends was bad enough, things get WAY worse.
Tons of drama begins: the popular girls at her school, Mackenzie and her friends, try to destroy her by humiliating her everywhere she goes (even in front of her crush), trip her, talk about her behind her back, spread horrible gossip about her, and tape humiliating notes to her locker.
Also, in the midst of it all, Nikki's painting for an art competition, that took hours to complete, gets destroyed by her dad's truck when he drops her off to school.
Grade/interest level: Elementary/MSReading level: Middle school 6-8thGenre: Fiction Main Characters: Nikki MaxwellSetting: School, POV: First person This book was good because I could understand her life is going and there's some funny parts of her on the story.
It was about this girl name Nikki Maxwell, that was starting 8th grade in a new school.
When you start reading this book, it will kinda start talking about her personal stuff in this diary about her crush, how she met new friend and other's.
I would recommend this book to people who like fiction.
This was a great book for me because Nikki and I can relate.
I can relate to Nikki because we are both in middle school and we all go through tough times.
One weakness of this story is that Nikki likes this guy and her arch nemesis flirts with him to get her mad.
A funny part of this story is that Nikki's sister thinks Mackenzie is the tooth fairy just because she is wearing a green face mask.
I would like to read the rest of the series because I want to know of Nikki actually get with the boy or not.
This was the first Dork Diary I've read and I really liked it because the main character which is Ni
That shows me that she doesn’t just care about herself, but for other people and her friends and is excited for them.5) At the end of the book, you realize that the mean texts from Brandon were actually from Mackenzie.
Also, another reason I liked this book was the comedy and how it also made me laugh and smile.7) I think the theme for this book was to always look on the upside because there was lot’s of down things that happened like the mean texts from Brandon, and how she didn’t have a date to the dance, but she just tried to stay on her happy side and didn’t let all that get to her .
It is about this girl named Nicki Maxwell and she ended up going to this new school.
And in that new school she meets her crush Brandon.But not only does she find a crush there is also an enemy Mackenzie Hollister.
(But Nicki does not know this).
Nicki also does not know that Brandon really likes her too.
He does not like Mackenzie.
As Nicki is still trying to live this new life, she means two other girls besides her that Mackenzie is also rude to their names are Chloe and Zoey.
This book reminds me of Diary of a Wimpy Kid, but for some reason, I like this book a bit more than the Diary of a Wimpy Kid. The way the main character, Nikki, acts when she has problems is really funny.
While this may seem like a book only for girls (which it might be considered to be one), it can be enjoyed by anyone, in my opinion.
The story is really well put out, and each day in Nikki's diary is filled with funny things, such as her talking about her problems with the most popular girl in her school, Mackenzie.
Honestly, I think this book is really good and you should give it a read.
"dork diaries is just like the diary of a wimpy kid. but i think dork diaries is better than the wimpy kid [only for girls]" said my friend . i got to know about this book in our school when a book stall was held . me and my friend just picked it up . after reading the book we started liking it. i have totally read 4 books in this series.more than nikki, i like the character of chloe, her bff. well its really good book written by rachel rene russell .
At first I did not want to read it but then I saw other people or other kids reading it I wanted to know why they are reading it so I went to the mall and went to barns and noble and read the book and I kept reading and reading and I really liked it so then I kept on reading and brought the book dork diaries 1 and when I was done with the first book I read the next one and the next on till I am done with all the books.
I thought this book was pretty dang exciting! If your a reader who likes to read books about drama, this one is for you! I liked how Rachel created a diaries series just for girls. Rachel makes the villain in this story so cruel, it will probably want you to slap them....I am very excited to have read this book and planning on to read the next one.
Renne Russell, Rachel (2009) Dork Diaries : Tale from a not-so-fabulous LifeTarget Audience: 13-15 years oldSetting: Takes place at Westchester Country Day school.Characters/plot/summary: Nikki Jullianne Maxwell is the main character.
Nikki is not part of the popular crowd at school.
Mackenzie is the popular girl at Westchester that creates obstacles for Nikki and is not that nice to her.
An example is when Nikki is talking to her friends next to her locker.
These illustrations show the various events that Nikki encounters everyday at school.
Many readers can relate to different situations that Nikki went through being at school.
nulthis book is sooooo good even if you can't rily lern eny thin from it, its still rily funny ( with sum adishinal drama).i am now at a vary good part. Ian at a vary good part she is at her enimys howes.I finesht yaye.
I  LOVE  this book. This book helped me get better at reading so that I could know how they are felling. I loved the pictures, I love it!?
my friend gave me this book. it really is a diary of wimpy kid for gals!! btw i enjoyed reading it. nikki maxwell is such a DORK!!!
The 1st book in the series is a great starter. Rachel Reenee Russel is a really good author I am in LOVE with this series.
