https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313375.What_Do_People_Do_All_Day_
This is the best book ever written. I mean it.
This book was a gateway drug to my son, who now spends half his time poring over (and creating) detailed cross-sections and schematics. And Lowly Worm, too!
This books is really fantastic! There's so much going on you could spend days reading it. And it's brilliant when you're learning English. I speak English very well but I still learned new words from this book. I left it on my night table to read again and learn more words.
Uno dei miei primi libri, adorato

I wouldn't be the person I am today if it wasn't for this book.
His lively, fill-up-the-page artwork and classic sense of humor have endeared him to children for over fifty years.In this book, Scarry introduces individual citizens of Busytown, then tells short stories about specific projects they are involved in: building a house, mailing a letter, putting out a fire, visiting the hospital, riding a train, growing a crop, lumberjacking and processing wood, building a road, taking an ocean voyage, and making bread.
By interweaving these individual stories, he shows how greater social process work together in industrial society.
Each story demonstrates the value of work, both for the individuals who perform it and those who enjoy its effects.
All of the workers are depicted as different animals and there are all sorts of little sub-stories going on in the background of each story.
The pictures will also give you a good giggle as there are also a host of little sub-plots going on in the illustrations.
This book is an enjoyable way of teaching children about fires, going to hospital and a train trip as well as how people use wood and build roads.
I would recommend this book for children aged 3 and upwards if mom or dad is reading.
Children from aged 9 and upwards can read these books themselves.
This book is very outdated (sexist).
Enjoyably detailed guide to modern industrial life. You can spend a lot of time poring over the oversized pages. As usual Richard Scarry's illustrations are warm and humorous.. This is like the baby version of Infrastructure: A Field Guide to the Industrial Landscape, or Works: Anatomy of a CitySee also:  Everything great about Richard Scarry in one picture
This title encapsulates the question I ask to myself as I drive around in Houston trafffic--What Do People Do All Day? Ha ha. A classic. Ages 3-6
The rare 1966 edition wherein Huckle Cat staples Bananas Gorilla to the classroom bulletin board.
This isn't exactly a classy work of literature, but it is certainly fun to read every once and a while. I never did stop liking to read a good Richard Scarry book.
This fits somewhere between fiction and fact, created to inform children of the different jobs that make up society. Informative and creative. Stories and illustrations are all with animals and centre around an event, a sea voyage, a fire, a visit to hospital. It's dated but relevant still. For EYFS or year 1.
WORLD comments here.

One of my absolute all time favorites as a child. My original copy was worn to shreds and eventually discarded. So as a young adult I special ordered a new copy, only to find it "abridged" and clearly missing some of my favorite sections. Abridged? Why? Apparently there may have been various stereotypes no longer deemed appropriate, but I can't recall anything offensive in the original.Even so, it's still a winner. In my humble opinion, the original Richard Scarry stories are cuter, more clever, and better drawn those created in his style after his death in 1994.
September 2017 - I have a love/hate relationship with Richard Scarry. I love the details, the labels, the explanations of all kinds of things kids are interested in. But ugh, despite some improvements to the illustrations, there are still some super, super sexist stories in here, and I couldn't make it all the way through as a read-aloud - things that were too fundamental to the story to change on the fly.
Fantastic book. If the '60s gender politics bother you, don't read it OR use it as a critical discussion point when you read it to your kids. Or, you know, realize that there's nothing inherently shameful about housewifery and just enjoy it.Awesome for pre-readers.
Sadly the only version of this book available today is the abridged version which is a shame since it does not include some of my favorite sections (like what do writers do all day). The unabridged version gets 5 stars.
is a picture book written and illustrated by Richard Scarry.
The pages show the town of Busytown and the places people go and work such as a paper mill, construction site, and hospital.
The pictures are incredibly detailed and full of recognizable Richard Scarry characters.
Children can explore the experience of certain life events such as being a patient in a hospital.
Also, the pictures of Lowly Worm on each page can be used for a game of “Where’s Waldo.” Additionally, the book can be read in parts with a focus on only one or two places or occupations instead of reading it traditionally from beginning to end.
Quite possibly Sawyer’s (4.5) favorite book of all time. He got it last Christmas and STILL reads it at least once a month. It’s one of the books he pours over by himself. I love that it actually sort of explains some things fairly well. He has his favorite stories that he asks for but the entire book is well done. So much to look at. I wish Richard Scarry had more like this (we own two others similar to this that are favorites as well).
Both my 4 year old & my 2 year old loved this! It's a huge book with large spreads about various jobs, or methods (ex: Building a new house, Wood & how we use it (explains how paper is made from wood- our favorite part!), Building a new road, etc. Some of it was slightly outdated (published 1968) but overall we loved it!
A good book for all kids especially special needs kids, where you can ask plenty of questions about what people do all day. This can give the child more of a literal description, in what otherwise can be quite a difficult way for a child to understand what people do for a living.
Another great, detail-oriented book. My daughter especially found the fire emergency part of the book really interesting. The book showed the process of there being a house fire and what the fire department does to come to the rescue and help.
Another favorite (age 3). Calvin remembers the cute stories about how things are made and where things come from, and being a worker or a helper appeals to him even at a young age. His favorite story is probably the one about the lumber camp.
Scarry's work truly is incomparable. And timeless. I read this book when I was probably about four or five. And MANY years later, I still remember it. My son just finished reading it, and he loves it. There is something very magical about Richard Scarry's work.
I felt that this book was great for lifting that veil and looking into adulthood. The perspective of using animals was wonderful and I think has the potential to help children at least gain an ounce of insight into what the real world is like.
Great book
Dylan and I love reading Richard Scarry books together. This was a Christmas present and it is a hit with both of us.
