https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2270120.Dollanganger_Boxed_Set
Did anyone else sneakily read these books in grade school and love every forbidden minute of it?
I stumbled upon these books when I was ten or eleven. My poor mother had nooooo idea! I was immediately obsessed with V.C. Andrews, and devoured every series. This one is the best, though. Even now, more than twenty years later, I can remember the mood of the novels, the dread, the longing, the forbidden passions.Now, since reading these, I have gotten a degree in literature, so I can in no way endorse these as life-changing or intellectually stimulating. But they are perfectly 'what they are' - juicy, scandalous, riveting, horrific nuggets of guilty-pleasure reading.
For good measure I included GOS.***Book 3 -If there be thorns.The technique Andrews uses here is of a second, third narrator to discredit Cathy in case you didn't get the hintBart's transformation into a killer echoing some of their ancestor Malcolm, Catherine, Garland, the second Corinne.Jory's growing awareness that gives you a closer voice to Chris as a child."Try as I might, I resented what they were doing, what they had done, risking scandal, risking ruining my life and Bart's, Cindy's too, and all because one man couldn't find another woman to love.
I read this book when I was in elementary school and I had no idea it was for adults. I thought is was some type of mystery book but then I realized it was very twisty. I like the whole series and sometimes I forgot that the two lovers were related. They are teenagers trapped in an attic and are forced to grow up in order to take care of there siblings...so I guess the incest would be justified....somewhat.
Es "Dolendžendžeru dzimtas" grāmatas izlasīju ~12 gadu vecumā, kad lasīju visu, kas nebija piesiets. Protams, ka vecumam galīgi neatbilstoša lasāmviela, bet tad man pat prātā nenāca, ka es varētu būt pārāk jauna kādai grāmatai. Tagad atkal piefiksēju šīs grāmatas bibliotēkas plauktos un nodomāju, ka varbūt jāsameklē autores "Kastīlu dzimtas" grāmatas (kas nav vēl lasītas) un jāpamēģina ar nu jau ne tik naivām acīm izlasīt.P.s. Pameklēju nedaudz informāciju un izrādās, ka tomēr šīs grāmatas tomēr ir paredzētas jauniešiem :D
I was griped by the story when I read the first book Flowers in the Attic.
After that I had to read the rest of the series.
It is not a heart warming tale and shows how dark some religious people's souls are to children by treating them with such indifference.
By regarding them as the "Spourn of Satan" and locking them in an attic for years shows how dark it gets.
It has a few sub-stories such as the mother and father's relationship.
This is a series that I want to read again.

The flowers refered to in the title of this book are four children,Chris the oldest boy, Cathy the oldest girl, and the twins Corrie and Carie. They are locked in the attic after there Dad is killed by a drunk driver. Their Mom and Grandmother try to kill off the children one by one. I enjoyed this read very much and would recommend it to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Read these books whilst still in high school and have gone back to read them countless times. At the time I was reading mainly Danielle Steel and this ws something of a shocking read to me then. Something in me was really touched by the characters of Catherine and perhaps Christopher even more. The last book made me cry so hard. Absolutely loved these book.
In the book, Flowers in the Attic by V.C. Andrews, Cathy, Chris, Cory, and Carries lives are ruined when a tragic car accident kills their father and leaves them with their now widowed mother.
Chris, Cory, Carrie, and Cathy are four siblings who love there lives.
The children are locked in a room struggling for survival because the grandfather can’t know about the kids until he dies because he hates kids now, so they have to be hidden away until he is gone.
When the kids father is killed in a car accident, there whole lives turned upside down.
ok, In flowers in the attic the mother came back to get back into her fathers good graces.
The reason being is she had married her uncle.
Anyway yes she married her uncle but, her mother did not want her father to know about the kids or her would not take the daughter back into the family.
Don't want to give to much of it away if you are going to read the book.
just wanted to keep the story line going.Good books but, trashy and the poor girl Cathy does not know which man she should love!
Anyway i'm getting of topic; the rest of this review will contain spoilers:(view spoiler)[The first two are definitely the best in my opinion, the third and the fourth drag a bit to much for me, plus the characters of Bart and Cindy never really grew on me.
Cindy character in the fourth one is just dumb, childish and annoying and everybody makes way to many excuses for Bart plus his many other horrible ‘charismatic’ qualities.
That ending with Bart and Cindy singing on stage was not believable at all to me.Joel was another one of those characters.
These books I read long ago. The whole series is so gripping and I couldn't put them down! I love 90% of all the VC Andrews books and she's again, another of my favorite authors. When I found out shed passed away. I never thought there would be another as good as VC Andrews! But her daughter took over. I believe, and they're still my "go to" books...for old times sake!
I really enjoyed the switch in perspectives from the boy to the mother, but the boy (Bart) seemed unrealistically disturbing and the contrast to Julian surprising. I guess I just didn't like the story as much.Im impressed I still remember the names though, seeing as it was a few years ago I read it!Certainly a memorable book.
I read these in jr. high, which is so screamingly inappropriate I can't even stand it. They still live in my mind as some of the trashiest, kitschiest, most overblown, overdramatic drivel ever written. Therefore, they have a very special place in my heart.
Christ, these books terrified me and yet I loved them as a YA.
Okay...I read these books years ago but they were SO MUCH FUN!!!! May not be the best written, or the best plot but they sure are compelling!
I'm a huge VC Andrews fan!! Yes, I realize every single VC Andrews book is the same as every other VC Andrews book...but that's kinda what I like!
I read these books as a teenager but probably should'nt have the subject matter was more adult.
The only way I can refer to the Dollanganger Saga is : AMAZING.
Yes, it can be dark.
Yes, it can be chessy sometimes....
but for sure, I can tell, never in my life I've had hated one character as I did with this one, Jesus Christ!
I sure hate their grandmother and the mother!!
This is one of the best sagas I've read.
And the 2nd book is for sure one of my favorites of all times.
If you want, drama, love, hate, sex, and amazing descriptions of almost everything, YOU HAVE TO READ ALL OF THEM.Maybe after that we can hate the grandma together!
Captivating, to say the least, VC Andrews grasped my full attention when I was very young. Other novels in the Dollanganger Series - 1, Flowers In The Attic; 2, Petals On The Wind; 3, If There Be Thorns; 4, Seeds Of Yesterday; 5, Garden Of Shadows - Be sure to read this series in order, you won't want to miss a thing. Touching, brilliant, cruel yet tender, one day I will read it through yet again. A fantastic read for anyone, young adult to adult.
I first read Flowers in the Attic as a teenager. I found my mom's copy of it and read it behind her back. I haven't read it again until this year. This time I read the complete saga. I truly enjoyed reading them. I f I was stranded on a deserted island they wouldn't come with me but I would definitely read them again.
Such an addictive read. The struggles makes the plot so interesting.
Another guilty pleasure. Read these a few times. On the most recent read, which was a few years back, I couldn't get through the entire forth book. I remember loving the prequel.
I really enjoyed Flowers in the Attic but the rest of the series wasn’t as good. I just couldn’t get into it.
Up till about 2006, I almost read exclusively V.C. Andrews.
Every series had an incest relationship, someone going from rags to riches, a crazy mother who has a mental breakdown, and someone who would end up in a wheelchair.
In one way it’s better because it’s before Andrews was written by a ghost writer so the writing is a little better, but on the other hand the incest is really heightened in this one.
I think every girl has to go through the phase of reading trashy exciting novels and V.C. Andrews fits the bill.
[3.6 rounded up] yea some of the content was messed up but I loved the series, the writing was so ca
I liked them, & I didn't.I read these when I was a teenager.
I don't think the twisted nature of these books was good for a young naive mind.
I felt bad for the children, no-one should have to live like that.I still remember the smut that I read that upset me, yet kept me wondering about what else was in the next book.
I don't think these are books that young minds should read.Actually, are they really good for anyone to read?
I wonder why the author would write books like this?
I read these books under the cautious eye of my librarian mother, who gave the yea or nay to my choices at a vulnerable age.
I hope no one goes about taking these books too seriously - I sure didn't, even though I was young & fairly naive when I read them.
One has to wonder what was going on in Andrew's mind to make up a story like this.I am giving these books 4 stars because they were a delicious treat to me in my teens, I liked them a lot but didn't take them to my heart.
The first book is a classic. I was rather unhappy with the rest of them. The stroy could have been really creepy and interesting if the author would actually bring her hints into full circle. For crimy sake- explain the grandparents and tell us what this whole thing is about instead of these partial hints that do not get resolved and that we then decide are just annoying and the authors attempts at generating continued interest in dribble. The first book though- that should be read!
