https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25571847-the-santa-klaus-murder
3.5★I don't know about the rest of you, but for me at Christmastime nothing hits the spot like a good old family murder mystery!
I can get the other two from another library in my area, but I am not sure I am going to bother.There was a lot that was right with this novel.Every character was a character & I didn't need to refer to the People in the Story list after the first couple of chapters.
I liked the unconscious depiction of life in England & Christmas customs.
Made me giggle.But I didn't like the organisation of this novel.
However, rather than being a time of good cheer and festive feasting, virtually all the family members – plus two guests – have misgivings about this annual get together and, to add to all the various alliances and intrigue, Sir Oswald Melbury is considering changing his will.It is fair to say that virtually every member of the house party has a reason to want Sir Oswald dead.
When he decides to obtain a Santa Klaus costume, so a member of the party can distribute gifts to the children, and servants, everyone is concerned that his plan goes well.
This was a very good quit read!!I loved the period it's in the 1930's Witch was fun to read and the murder is cleverly performed, and it takes some thought to determine who the culprit is.(witch is why i'm giving it five stars i normally figure it out pretty quit) lots of red herrings abound in this enjoyable classic mystery.
al.The Santa Klaus Murder is set in a typical mystery setting: a country house, a family gathering for the holidays, a murder that was impossible to take place, and a lot of red herrings.The story had all the markings of a perfectly cozy read, except....there were some darker themes that meandered through the book that gave this mystery an air of interest beyond the pure fun of solving the puzzle.For example, one of the characters is suffering from PTSD, or shell-shock, and one of the interesting aspects of the novel was how his family cope with his altered self.However, the topic was not given as much depth as for example Sayer's allocated to it in the Lord Peter Wimsey novels.
3.5 stars I received this from Net Galley This is a golden oldie Christmas mystery story and I am so glad.
It was books like this that sparked my interest in reading.
I always envisioned staying in an English manor house where nobody seems to do anything but have a good time.
There are activities and lots of food and, oh yes, a murder.
As the family gathers at Christmas time, the old man contemplates changing his will.
Someone has to murder him.
I love the Christmas references and the old time glamour.
If you like a blast from the past then you'll enjoy this cozy Christmas story.
And while it's normal in any mystery novel (or tv show or film) for people to neglect or outright refuse to tell the police certain things, here it was taken to a kind of silly level."When you sent for me yesterday afternoon," Caundle explained; "I came up here through the village and by the back drive—much quicker for me than going round by the main gate—and just before I turned into the drive a car came out of it, turned into the road and passed me.
This cozy Christmas mystery is set in the 1930's in the countryside outside Bristol.
Of course, there's a murder in the library - actually the study - and it's the family patriarch who is dead.
The Christmas holiday makes investigating a bit more complicated as some people are away for the holiday.Fortunately, the authors provides a list of characters in the front of the book.At the conclusion, all of the clues that led the police to identify the suspect, are provided at the end.
This is a technique I haven't seen done quite so extensively at the end of a crime novel but it worked.
Quite good holiday murder mystery. Hay made me suspect several people at various times but I didn't guess the solution! I did find the cast of characters a bit hard to sort out at first but after the first 30 pages or so, I had gotten them straight in my mind.
This was fun. And incredibly odd.
Es ist wirklich durch und durch Krimi, denn alles bezieht sich auf die Ermittlung des Mörders innerhalb der Familie und den anwesenden Personen auf dem Anwesen in Flaxmere.
Dabei gibt es immer wieder Hinweise und ich war lange am miträtseln, welche Indizien nun mit dem Verbrechen zusammenhängen und welches die falschen Fährten sind.Man erfährt zwar viel über alle Betroffenen, bleibt aber doch außen vor, denn die hauptsächliche Perspektive übernimmt Colonel Halstock, der ermittelnde Kommissar.
Mavis Doriel Hay’s first novel, Murder Underground (1934), had an interesting North London boarding house setting, but lacked any sense of mystery.
By the time she wrote The Santa Klaus Murder (1936), she had mastered the mystery element...but unfortunately lost the setting.
My theory that it was a collective conspiracy of the beastly gentry is unfortunately proved wrong, since I think it might have been more interesting than the actual denouement.
Despite the sensational title, The Santa Klaus Murder is a rather mild-mannered novel that’s quite readable, has a certain period charm, but could usefully have been left in the obscurity it so recently enjoyed.
3/5 stars.This review was originally posted on my book blog.If you're looking forward to reading a classic murder mystery, your heart lifts when you open the book and the first thing you see is a map of the ground floor of a country house which is basically the Cluedo (Clue for those of you in the US) game board.
:-)It's not just its country house-cut-off-from-civilisation setting which makes this a classic; this book is very much of its time.
The tone was so cut-glass it reminded me more of The Famous Five than Christie.The plot is well-handled and unravels at a good pace.
Certainly it is engaging and very readable, but there is a lot to the mystery that I found predictable, although I was happy enough to keep going to find out if I had guessed correctly.The first few chapters are told by members of the household, accounts they are (later in the novel) asked to write about the events leading up to the crime.
Sir Osmond controls his family with steely determination.
Sir Osmond had organised for a Santa Klaus to distribute presents to everyone but Santa's suit, ordered in good time, did not arrive.
Another was hastily ordered and specially delivered so everything was set to go with a swing.Sir Osmond then visited his study but did not return and the door was discovered to be locked when his family went to look for him.
After one or two false trails, details emerge that change the police thinking and eventually, as in all good mysteries, the perpetrator of the crime is unmasked.Mavis Doriel Hay provides a very 1930s seasonal setting, which is one very definitely to be read whilst awaiting the visit of Santa ...
There are clues and red herrings dispersed throughout the book that tend to point to the killer in very subtle ways but, given that the pool of suspects is limited to those inside the house, at least one of them must be lying – the task of the police and the reader is to suss out who.
The Santa Klaus Murder by author Mavis Doriel Hay is a classic British cozy with a Christmas theme.
It is an intelligent, well-written mystery with plenty of suspects to keep the reader guessing but plenty of clues to point the way.
The first five chapters leading up to the murder are each presented from a different character's perspective, and we later learn these were written accounts requested by the acting constable.
It's also difficult to track characters and relationships, as one chapter will refer to them by titles/last names and another by first names.After the reveal of the crime, the flow improves somewhat, but oddly there are problems both with over-explaining details such as timetables, movements, and motives and with not providing enough shading to invest in the characters.A disappointment.
A wonderful Christmas mystery.
Very warm and casual narration, a clever crime (murder) and an interesting cast of suspects.
Our lead crime-solver is Colonel Halstock, the Chief Constable of the fictitious shire.
He spends a good deal of his time trying to keep the lead policeman, Detective Inspector Rousden, from hastily jumping to conclusions.Our victim, Sir Osmond Melbury, is your garden variety domestic tyrant who, it is rumored, was about to revise his will.
Most of the adults are less than fond of Sir Osmond--but are any of them capable of murder?A good, fun read--perfect for the season.
I read this over Christmas, and it was perfect. So festive, so murderous, so very silly. I mean, what more do you need to know? 10+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
A classic good old fashioned mystery, set in the wonderful English countryside. Slightly disappointed with the ending, but overall, it was very enjoyable.
I found this one to be disappointing as it was so predictable. I guessed the culprit really early on.
It's a British whodunnit from the Golden Age (published in 1936) by a writer I never heard of, and it has all the classic elements: a country house, a motley collection of characters sympathetic and otherwise and a complicated will, the dispositions of which are the key issue.A domineering old patriarch, a widower, gathers his family around him at Christmas: his son and three daughters with spouses, children and a couple of suitors in tow.
The old man arranges for one of the young men to don a Father Christmas costume and pass out presents before retiring to his study.
Review coming up later.
Enjoyable cozy mystery. The author gave away the culprit fairly early on and didn't throw in any good, believable red herrings to throw one off the scent.
let's say rather 3.5, but quite a nice mixture of cyril hare and agatha christie, and you've got yourself quite a cozy mystery in an english little town, together with a very dysfunctional family :-)
Dreadfully dry and drawn out. All characters could easily have been guilty and I wouldn't have cared. Crazy slow pacing. Only truly engaging for a few chapters.
This book was written during the Golden Age of crime writing.
Ms. Hays has written three novels that have been all re-released like this one was.
All family members are gathered at the familial home for Christmas.
All of the family have equally viable motives because there is a lot of money involved and of course they all want to ensure that the master's young secretary doesn't get any.
She uses different points of view from each of the family members to help lay out how it all happened.
I love the Golden Age style of writing and the book didn't disappoint.
There’s a huge house, a master of the house, the children, the father tells his kids who they can and cannot marry.
The master of the house throws a party at his estate and invites many.
It is on this day that the Murder occurs!While reading the book I had no idea who the killer was which always makes me enjoy a good mystery.This book also had a very Agatha Christie “And then there were none” quality to it.
If you like Agatha Christie I am fairly certain you will like this festive read!
A good "country house" mystery in which several members of a wealthy family gather for a Christmas celebration. The patriarch is found dead, and the Chief Constable finds -- to his dismay -- that nearly everyone in the house had reason to do the old man in. Told through a series of written recollections of events, the mystery is interesting and resolved in a believable manner. The characters aren't terribly exceptional and I kept confusing some of the secondary players because their names and behavior were too similar, but overall, I'm glad I read it.
Brilliant, a fine example of a country house murder mystery.
Shot by Santa! This is a classic murder mystery in a classic murder mystery setting and I enjoyed it.
