https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3407572-biggles-of-the-camel-squadron
(Inspired by the lead story, "The Professor")Wittgenstein of the Camel Squadron1. Let us consider an individual, we may call him L, who joins a World War I fighter squadron. L says to himself that there is no problem. Aerial combat is merely geometry; one projects the trajectories of the two aeroplanes and the machine-gun bullets, and computes the appropriate times and angles. But when he describes these reflections to his new comrades, he is met with howls of derision. Why?The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
I have happily returned to the world of Biggles.
Biggles, a fearless pilot, is still fighting the Germans during the First World War.At first I thought this one would have the same things happen again like the others, but a few new characters were introduced (gotta love the Professor and Hartcourt) and the chapter when Biggles crashes at the British lines (during a fierce battle) was epic and unique.
A war book that will certainly appeal to 12-13 year olds boys, and to those who enjoy a good airplane story :) *A couple uses of deuce, blinking, blamed, and confounded.
Thanks to Capt. W.E. John's first-hand knowlege, his text is highly evocative, both in the detail of strategy, machinery, logistics, and above all in the language he uses. Though he portrays war in the air as an adventure (remember: this is a childrens book), he does describe moments of sickening uncertainty; he does not trivialise war. His young reader is left older and wiser. By comparison, many childrens books published today seem thoroughly childish and lifeless.
Old School adventure done properly - jolly good show. Easy to mock, hard to copy, simple but technically meticulous stories give a fascinating insight into early flying - seen from a very particular perspective.Also, very much darker than the 'jolly japes' image might suggest. Death, loss, grief and the futility of war are not far from the surface. Well worth a read.
It is towards the end of World War I and he has to be at his best to devise some outrageous, cunning and desperate schemes to down some German ace pilots, to rescue some of his pals or simply to stay alive to fight another day.For instance he teaches a cocky young pilot, Henry Watkins fresh out of flying training, how to attack the Germans and return safely.
He manages to perform a miracle by disappearing in cloud and then finding his way safely back home.He also encounters an eccentric old man who has designed and manufactured from bits of all sorts of metal his own aircraft, complete with a special bomb that he reckoned would undoubtedly end the war if the government would sanction it.
Few characters span so much time so well, and I remember how much I loved this book having read some of the WWII adventures and detective books before it. If like me you have not read the earlier books first, pick this up this is not a prequel - it's a birth of a hero!
I want to be 12 again...
(1956 hardback edition?) This is the third Biggles book that I've read and my favourite so far.
Unlike the other two, this is a collection of 11 short stories and an interesting foreword.
The stories are about as varied as a collection of stories starring a WW1 pilot could possibly be and surprisingly educational and action-packed for something written so long ago.
W.E. Johns' writing of the action scenes actually has my pulse racing on occasions which is something very few writers ever manage to pull off, especially as dogfights are a chaotic affair that are difficult to describe well.
If you can't find the Biggles books in order, this would be a good one to start with.
This is a collection of World War One English Flying pilots that is attributed to the fictus pilot Biggles. In WWI they started by dropping rocks on the german trench's as they flew over them, and moved up to 20 pound bombs loaded on the bottom of the wings. There were no rules or guidelines, so it was any thing goes, and try any thing. This is a fun read and shows the development of aerial warfare in the modern world. Fun read, and a must for any one interested in History.
3.5 stars I enjoyed this book very much. It was interesting an eyewitness account of the early times of war aviation. Weird to think they had no radios and had to communicate visually with basic hand signals.
First real book I ever read (in 1960 at age 8) - 1956 Dean hardback copy without the dust cover - my teacher had a little class library. I duly read all Biggles, followed by Gimlet, mostly as 2/6 Armada paperbacks.
Every schoolboy should read this book to get some understanding of WW 1Excellent book. All Biggles books are first class reading with a touch of reality. Every one a thoroughly good read
One from my childhood. You can't beat Biggles...I had a first edition of this, the first Biggles book, when I was a kid; wonder what happened to it?
Boys (and girls) own stuff and nostalgia for a 64 year old - read in 2 sittings, Cost me a £1 - worth every simple penny
Hi-ho - back to the ethics books....Would like to try that biography of Johns one day.(My father's cousin, Peter Alston, was a test pilot during the Second World War. He was killed when a plane he was testing did not come out of the spin he had to put it into.
Somewhat darker than the other World War I short stories4 August 2013 I'm not sure if I can say all that much about Biggles after reading this book. For some reason I simply could not get into it the same way that I got into the other WWI Biggles books that I read. Okay, he does crash a couple of planes, and does deal with the Germans a couple of times, but for some reason this book seemed to be a little ho-hum, and also a little darker as well. Okay, a number of the stories were a little light
Somewhat darker than the other World War I short stories4 August 2013	I'm not sure if I can say all that much about Biggles after reading this book.
Okay, he does crash a couple of planes, and does deal with the Germans a couple of times, but for some reason this book seemed to be a little ho-hum, and also a little darker as well.
Anyway, much of what I have said about the World War I fighter pilot experience I have already mentioned elsewhere in another collection of Biggles short stories, so there is no real need to cover the same ground again.
All of the Biggles series are interesting. I had an earlier edition in the 1980's and have read nearly all of his series. W. E. Johns does a capitaving work. For every one who love flying paper planes.
Verzameling korte verhalen uit Biggles WO1 periode. Een van de verhalen, de professor komt terug, lijkt erg veel op een al eerder gepubliceerd verhaal. ben niet echt een fan van deze korte verhalen, maar hier zaten wel goed te lezen verhalen bij.
A collection of 13 short stories, very similar to the first Biggles book.He is the same daredevil, has the same berserker mode, and is the same super hero.
Easy to read adventures of the famous pilot.
Read during Primary School, along with every other Biggles book I could get my hands on!
Great series of classic books, but might be very hard to find all in reading order unless you know what you're doing. Great boost in grammar. 5/5
