https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36255.The_Hearth_and_Eagle
This book is the story of the Honeyman family of Marblehead, Massachusetts.
There weren't, the main focus of the story is Hesper from her childhood through her marriages and her children, and most importantly about the town of Marblehead and its quirky characters and history.
While Seton's research and writing are impeccable as always, I would only recommend this for die-hard Seton fans or for those interested in reading about the history and characters of Marblehead.
Honestly, I just couldn't get that enthralled with Hesper's story; it just wasn't that interesting for me.
And the whole 250 year saga merely serves to illustrate, over and over, how the women are tough enough to survive everything while the men are either bumbling, selfish, stupid, or absent.Back in the 1630's you have the story of the first Honeywood family -- they would never have come to America at all if the childish, foolish, boyish husband hadn't dragged his gentle, sensitive, decent wife all that way into the howling wilderness!
But no worries, he meets a very nasty little accident and she becomes the unquestioned head of the household -- while wearing her martyrdom proudly as the "dutiful wife." And that sets the pattern for the next 200 years, down to Hesper Honeywood.
Catching up on Anya Seton this weekend, her "Katherine" is the best historical romance ever. I liked the New England flavor of this.
History preserved through fictionMarblehead today is a yuppie heaven; shiny SUVs ply the tree-lined streets, and over-ample pseudo-colonial mansions crowd their small lots.
It's just a shadow of that raffish self.But if you want to know what it was, if you want to capture the flavor of this, my beloved home, be sure to read THE HEARTH AND EAGLE, which takes you from early colonial days, when Marblehead was a rowdy offshoot of serious Salem, to the 1920s.
She may not have been a local, but she certainly captured the flavor of town and depicted a long stretch of Marblehead history through the lives of her characters.
I sometimes like these older books and so when I looked at the I found it was about Marblehead, MA and had some history in it about it's founding.
Unfortunately there wasn't a whole lot about that period, although what was there was good.
The rest of the book was about a family living through the second half of the 19th century, good enough to continue on, but certainly not one which I would have chosen otherwise.
I'd never read Anya Seton before and she is a good writer, so that was some consolation.
Anya Seton's books are well researched and this one is no exception. Who knew that life in a New England fishing compunity could be that interesting
The community that began as a small fishing village did eventually grow and their economy was greatly helped by the shoe factories where Hesper finds work.Certainly this area is rich in history and characters, and there is enough material for more than just one novel like Seton's "The Hearth and the Eagle".At times the novel is almost maudlin and over-sentimental (one can get a bit weary of the too-oft-doom-and-gloom warning of approaching misfortune).
But, one can easily see Seton's pen in 'The Hearth and Eagle'.Deep and wide historical research, an understanding of those times, no prejudice - all I appreciated so much in her other read (by me) books.
You can read my other reviews of Seton's novels and pretty much of them I could copy here.But there was something lacking.
But if you are a fan of Seton (like me) I think you will enjoy it despite its flaws.[By the by, I can't understand why publishers seem sometimes so lazy that they don't even bother to learn the novel.
Anya Seton has a knack for getting sympathy for her characters in her book, although not necessarily initially.
She begins the book briefly with Hester in the first chapter, but I didn't know her well enough by the ending of the first chapter to have formed much of an impression.
I began to bond with this character so strongly, that I found myself wanting to read more of her when Seton takes us back to Hester.
At the beginning of the transition, I found myself not liking Hester so very much.
Anya Seton's books are always entertaining and well researched. I enjoyed this story although it does suffer a bit from predictability and a rather mushy ending. It was a pity she didn't continue the theme of alternating historical periods, which would have given the book more depth.
Marblehead, Massachusetts in the 1600's and mid 19th century. Strong female characters, quite readable.
I like other books by Seton better, but I enjoyed this one as well.
A Happy RevisitingI first read this book many years ago , I think I was still at school. I had forgotten the details of. the story , but I remembered how much I enjoyed it .Coming to it , so many years later and understanding so much now , the pleasure has been magnified . Thank you for making this reencounter possible.
Interesting historical progression of colonization and the evolution of New England's social classes shown through a female protagonist and her family in Marblehead, Massachusetts. Reveals character traits still evident in Americans today.
This book hurt my heart.
3.5 stars
Strange that such a prolific and talented writer had totally escaped my realm…Until last month when a 2015 republished copy of "The Hearth and the Eagle" (1948)was graciously sent to me by my publicist buds at Mariner Books, an imprint of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.Set in the shore town of Marblehead, Massachusetts, this lush, historical novel explores the life of self-determined, passionate Hesper Honeywood from the pre-Civil War era to the beginnings of World War I.
Hesper grows up and eventually becomes the proprietor of “The Hearth and the Eagle”, an old, established inn and tavern first started as an “ordinary” by her forebears in the 1600s.
Hesper Honeywood’s family has lived in Marblehead and run the Hearth and Eagle pub ever since the town’s founding around the 1630s, and she has grown up listening to her father extol the family’s rich history.
Now, at the inception of the Civil War, her simple life is about to change when a local wise woman tells her future for a few coppers: She will have three men in her life, but she will know nothing but heartbreak.This is definitely not one of Seton’s best works.

I loved the Marblehead Island history that the author entwined in the story but I was confused about soem of the nuances of the story. I loved Hesper as a character but found myself wishing that the author would just get on with the story. I felt the book dragged on. I loved the way she told the history of the island changing from the fishing mecca that it was to the shoe factories to the vacation spot it became. Would be far more interesting to someone who was actually from Marblehead than to the casual reader.
Page turner... and I feel like I know Marblehead and its culture. Can't wait to take Another J to the east coast and spend a week in the Marblehead harbor. The story is intriguing and real, without creeping over that fine line to "soap opera." Hester is a believable character. Marblehead and the Honeywoods and the house totally come to life. I love reading about the first settlements of America!
Spent a week reading the first hundred pages of this historical novel about Marblehead, MA (hey, I've been there). It was interesting but melodramatic and insipid and everything else you'd pretty much expect from a historical novel from 1948. With a few exceptions, I don't like historical fiction. It usually feels fake to me, forced. I'm trying to be more open, but this one was definitely cheesy.
This is set in the 1850s in New England in the USA. Then it flashes back to 1630, and the family's arrival in America. Good picture of life of the times, and sympathetically drawn characters. Some drama and excitement - yet it all felt a bit long-winded and it was easy to put down!
I was at first disappointed that only a small part of the book was set in the 1630s, as I loved the author's book The Winthrop Woman about the same journey and period. However, the characters in the 1800s become just as vivid and likeable, and the plot very interesting too.
I love the stories of Marblehead and the experiences of all involved. It's sad at times and yet uplifting as well. The human spirit is proved to be resilient (sp?) through Hesper and the Honeywood family.
Historical fiction starting with the first inhabitants of Marblehead, MA. Lovely story of an inn built in the 1600s and the family who owned it for generations. Filled with accurate accounts of life in the early years of the United States.
a novel set in Marblehead, Mass. The Hearth and The Eagle is an inn.
Nice, comfortable reading. I had the same feeling while reading Norah Loft's books.
Marblehead, Mass. from its earliest settlement to modern times.
Enjoyed the setting, Marblehead MA. An enjoyable read.
