https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148932.Where_There_s_a_Will
This time the money is running out so the great detective accepts a case of a type he usually avoids like a plague: a contest of a will left by a millionaire.
This is probably the first Nero Wolfe book without any single decent human being - not counting the detectives and other regulars.
The dynamic duo Wolfe/Goodwin saved the day - just like Batman and Robin usually do - and raise the book to the level of 4 star rating.
As an additional bonus, Nero Wolfe does unthinkable and leaves his house for investigation; people familiar with the series know this simply does not happen at all.
He has agreed to see the the three Hawthorne sisters, June; an author who is married to the US Secretary of State; May, a college president; and April, a beautiful and talented actress.
Of course in a Nero Wolfe story there has to be a murder ...
It turns out that Noel's death was no accident and Wolfe gets to use his genius to find out who the murderer is.In this story we are treated to Archie's wit and Inspector Cramer's pursuit of whoever he decides the murderer is (so you know who it isn't).
Where there's a will *and* Nero Wolfe, you can bet on there also being a dead body or two.
3.5*This 8th book in the Nero Wolfe series was pretty typical. Although I hadn't read this one before, Wolfe and Archie behaved in the manner that I associate with them in my memory, though there was a little less talk about their meals than usual. Wolfe does briefly leave his brownstone to visit the client's home (a fact which surprised me no less than it did Archie & Fred!). A quick and enjoyable read.
Nero is busy at work reflecting on each character while he deliberates the clues.
Archie on the other hand is Nero's leg man running down possibilities as required.
The entire clan is present during Nero's slow but steady deduction(s) and for his finale.
Cramer at his most cantankerous almost has Nero thrown into the clinker.I truly enjoyed this most interesting of Res Stout's stories.
The deducting Nero kept me focused throughout and the enthusiasm of his clan in following his leads added to my joy in reading.
Nero and Archie and another adventure
The only author I'm up to reading in sickbed, feeling like the living dead.
Which suggests that perhaps the introductory warning about the 'potentially lethal' consequences of selecting nonsequential chapters of the recently-read Wicked Weeds: A Zombie Novel, was no idle jest.
Even if the non-standard Table of Contents suggests the jumbled sequence.
Hopefully there are sufficient Stouts on the shelf.
This is excellent Stout.
More suspects than usual, more murders, more banter, and it all hangs together as a real story, which isn't always the case (no pun intended ;-), and that isn't why we read about Wolfe and Archie anyway).
Oh yeah, read it!"You're a detective. Detectives don't assume, they deduce." Nero at his deducing and sleuthing best. Intriguing characters, many with motive and opportunity and none with alibis. Archie is not at the top of his witty quip game in this one, but loyal and protective as ever, and his usual frustrated step behind when it all falls out. The grammar is precise, the logic tight and clever, the dialogue right on and the vocabulary challenging, as in books 1 through 6.I love hanging out with these guys. So glad I have 40 or so Nero Wolfes to go.
I don't know anything else to say about the Nero Wolfe books since I love them all. This one is a little different since Wolfe leaves his house to solve a mystery involving a high society and political family. The usual good bon mots and classic dialogue.......nobody has a command of the English language like Wolfe and it is not even his first language. But of course he is a genius so I expect no less!!! Another of the books in one of the greatest series of detective stories ever.
In 1939’s Where There’s a Will by Rex Stout, Nero Wolfe gets visited by the famous Hawthorne sisters: June, wife of the U.S. Secretary of State; May, president of Varney College; and April, one of the greatest actresses ever.
The night before, the attorney, Glenn Prescott, read the will to the family, astonishing everyone by leaving an apple to June, a pear to May, and a peach to April, with the rest going to his mistress, Naomi Carn.
Daisy notoriously wears a veil after having been shot with an arrow by Noel and is full of bitterness and hatred.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
Solid, as usual.New York 1939
Stout is still growing in his craft. We have more characters, with many well developed, and a followable and strong plot. We have gone beyond a long funny story to a suspenseful mystery, too.
Rex Stout - 08 - Where There's a WillCopyright 1940 -- Published 1941Except for a few passing lines about statesmen it is difficult when one reads this book to discover any clues that it was written in the run up to the Second World War and published after the entry of a number of countries into that war.
For example in this book Wolfe leaves his home on the frailest of pretests.
The Hawthorne sisters – April, May and June – are convinced that there’s something fishy about their recently deceased brother’s final bequests - Particularly because most of the money – several million dollars – has been left to the “other woman”.The case soon becomes complicated and sinister – the dead Hawthorne brother was actually murdered; political – one of the Hawthorne sisters is married to a high-ranking member of the State Department; and the police become involved – always a thorn in Wolfe’s side or vice-versa.
There is a great cast of supporting characters/suspects – including the “other woman”, the mysterious Hawthorne widow and a gaggle of attorneys.
The famous Hawthorne sisters come to Nero Wolfe with a sticky situation: their brother Noel has just died and willed his fortune to his mistress, leaving his unstable wife with a pittance and the sisters themselves with an assortment of fruit.
They want him to minimize the scandal, a task rendered rather more difficult when Noel is revealed to have been murdered.
Wolfe is compelled to leave his brownstone and suffer gastronomic horrors while questioning the crew of eccentrics.
Archie is in fine form, eyeing dames, cracking wise, and annoying the police, but the mystery itself is full of loose ends and unresolved red herrings, cluttering an otherwise tidy solution.
An average Nero Wolfe. And Rex Stout's average is plenty good enough for me.
I think this is the third one in a row where he does just that, albeit not without a lot of complaining and worrying.
Wolfe's quirks are always entertaining, but it's Archie Goodwin who draws me to these stories.
His sassy humor and easy romantic entanglements are entertaining to the point where I end up reading sections over and over to savor the laughter.
Now that I've started watching the A&E series, I'm reading Archie in Timothy Hutton's voice.
There are a lot of twists and tangled up action, and the chronology isn't always easy to comprehend.
Although not a great mystery fan, I've come to love the Nero Wolfe books by Rex Stout for the interplay between Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
Their interaction shows humor, respect, and irritation.
One of the books shows Archie resigning (aagain), and Nero observing that someday he would no longer need Archie's services, and would marry him off to a woman of mediocre intellect.
Fortunately, Stout seldom got that cute in his writing; it.
Archie Goodwin is a hardboiled private eye who prefers milk to booze, and who treats his lady friends with something like respect.
Rex Stout never wrote a Nero Wolfe mystery I didn't love.
His standard ingredients are outstanding: intriguing characters and situations, a fast-moving plot, and Wolfe's Manhattan brownstone full of orchids, gourmet meals, and books, all presented to us by this Sherlock's smart-alecky Watson, the clever, charming, resourceful Archie Goodwin.
Where There's a Will was particularly interesting to reread because it's an early book, written before Stout got fully up to speed (pub date 1940).
Therein lie my quibbles: a plethora of characters became a challenge to keep sorted; and the most intriguing oddity of the eponymous will remains a loose end.
Rex Stout's "Where There's a Will (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 8)" is yet another of his excellent ones.
It's the 8th book in the Nero Wolfe series and was first published in 1940 (his last Nero Wolfe novel until after the war (he did publish two short-story collections during the war)).
I can only come up with two extremely minor nits with the whole book: first, one character (May) seems to switch from pro- to anti-Wolfe sentiments without cause, and second, Wolfe's change of venue near the beginning doesn't have enough oomph.
I'm rating the book at an Excellent 5 stars out of 5.
The novel opens with Wolfe accepting a case that I couldn’t figure out how he could possibly resolve.
His clients want him to convince a woman—the mistress of their dead brother—not to accept the huge bequest he left her in his will.
I mean—who turns down a 7 million dollar bequest?
But Wolfe takes the case and gets to work just in time to learn that the dead brother is a murder victim, not an accident victim, and then things really get moving.
With a murder to solve, Wolfe is back in his element and the investigation gets even intense.
Know that Dean Koontz has proven himself an idiot in his introduction; do yourself a favor and skip over it.
The novel itself contains a neat series of twists that will keep you guessing, although if you're paying very close attention, you might note the unusual yet powerful motive as you're humming along.
The means of deciphering the clues are presented openly and in good context with the story.
Both Wolfe and Archie are in good form, and although the pivotal clue is (naturally) left to appear toward the end, the other clues have been well-seeded.
(That phrasing just might be a clue.
It has been years since I read a Nero Wolfe book and I enjoyed it as much as I did when I began reading them in the 1070’s.
This story remained true to the character of mysteries of that age.
It will always be someone from left field that was not even a consideration in the rest of the book.
It does not take away any of the enjoyment of the story.
I definitely recommend this for any one that enjoys a good murder mystery without graphic violence and sex, but told with a touch of humor.
The bank account is hurting so Nero takes on a disputed will case for some quick cash. Putting up with the hyperactive and overly dramatic family is bad enough, and then one of them gets murdered.This was pretty good, but not quite on par with Some Buried Caesar or Over My Dead Body. I honestly got a little lost in all of the characters at times, even though most of them had a notable quirk or prop. (And for those keeping track, Nero leaves the house in this one, making it four out of the eight books.)
Times are hard and even Nero Wolfe has to compromise.
No more fance cases, this time it is a contested will.
Wolfe does not like to fight over dead people's money, but he does need money for himself and his staff so off he goes.
Or well, Archie Goodwin goes.I like this book because while the character gallery was a bit too large, it was limited and allowed for many different theories of what has happened.
Personally I went with a theory based on the experience Sayers, Stout and Christie have given me and that wasn't too bad.
This one also has Archie being completely and bizarrely freaked out by disability. I can sort of forgive it, for two reasons: 1. Archie is clearly shown as being weird and wrong about that, and 2. Wolfe doing a runner (and Archie immediately worrying he'd fall down a hole if left to himself) is hilarious.
Stop number 8 on my tour through the Nero Wolfe series. By this point Stout has the formula down for a good Wolfe novel and this one ticks all the boxes with the slight exception of Wolfe leaving the office to investigate (somewhat) in the field. Not a perfect Wolfe novel but still fun. And anytime spent in a Wolfe novel is better than time in almost any other novel.
As usual, Rex Stout gives us an amusing read in the viewpoint of Archie, who often comments on the habits and maneuvers of His Largeness Nero Wolfe. This tale of murder and illegality seems to be solved without the usual cleverness by the hero. Still, a good read.
I wrote a review on my Kindle, but it kept telling me I needed 20 more words,even after I added more than that. I have always loved the Nero Wolfe books, and am taking advantage of Kindle to reread them all. I highly recommend them!
It was good story however it was slow and wordy until the middle of the book. This is where the plot thickens and there were more action. I would not say this is one of Mr. Stout best work, but it is fun to read.
