https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9591.Wampeters_Foma_and_Granfalloons
But being born in 1922 and a veteran of World War II, he is of my grandfather’s generation, what many have deemed “the greatest generation”.What seems clear to me now, looking back on having read Vonnegut for about 30 years, is to highlight that he was of the greatest AMERICAN generation, and that he is of course a great American.What stands out in these pages and from a perspective of reading much of his work is his affinity for all things American.
This collection of nonfiction demonstrates amply why so many people fall headlong in love with Vonnegut—all aspects of his cranky humanity, his unimpeachable morality, his hard-won cynicism are on show over these twenty-five pieces.
Among the brilliance here includes his take on SF as a literary art, his ornery take on the moon landing and a loving portrayal of mystic Madame Blavatsky.
Thompson ‘A Political Disease,’ where Vonnegut invents Thompson’s Disease for those betrayed by their leaders to the point of mental collapse (Thompson cured himself of his disease with a shotgun in 2005.
Ah, the days Playboy was a respected literary organ!
Wampeters--An object around which the lives of otherwise unrelated people revolve, e.g., The Holy Grail.Foma--Harmless, comforting untruths, e.g., "Prosperity is just around the corner."Granfalloons--A proud and meaningless association of human beings, e.g., The Veterans of Future Wars.Taken together, the words form as good an umbrella as any for this collection of essays, book reviews and speeches written over the years by Vonnegut.
This review will contain a lot of excerpts, because I can think of no better way to clue any of you uninitiated in to just how wonderfully this man writes.The book starts off with an essay entitled Science Fiction in which Vonnegut discusses the genre.
3.95
“You understand, of course, that everything I say is horseshit.” (Playboy interview) My plan was to dip in and out of this one, but sometimes I let too many days go in between. It took me forever to finish, and as a result, I got kind of tired of it. Still a decent collection, though. I liked the speeches and book reviews (that KV wrote of other books) the most.
Nothing less than five stars will do for this one.I wanted to have a better concept of Vonnegut’s personality in preparation for reading Kurt Vonnegut’s biography “And So It Goes.” I thought a book of non-fiction by KV would be appropriate so I revisited this after nearly 40 years since my first reading.
My intent was to read a chapter now and then and to alternate with several books of short stories and non-fiction I’ve been reading.
Among the topics discussed are the Vietnam War, the Biafran tragedy, and the presidential campaign of 1972, particularly relevant in this election year and amazingly timely and prescient.
I loved this book because I love Kurt Vonnegut and reading his opinions made me feel closer to him as a person, which may sound weird, but I really admire him.
I really liked the story "Fortitude" because it was a story about the evils of technology (at least, that's how I read it) and how people succumb to it without realizing that it's happening.
I also really liked his interview with playboy at the very end of the novel...
Everything I learned about him made me love him even more and I would totally recommend this novel to all Vonnegut lovers.
I like Kurt Vonnegut not only for his humorous and imaginative novels and short stories but also for his politics, his values. Not only has he added his name to many a worthy petition and appeared on many a plstform, but when The Nation, the oldest news weekly magazine in the USA, was in financial trouble, Vonnegut, Doctorow, Vidal and other writers bailed them out without demanding editorial control. This collection represents something of where Vonnegut came from and what he believed in, much of it, in my opinion, simple common sense informed by humane sympathy.
Kurt Vonnegut met Chinua Achebe in Africa? I found this so fascinating. I also really enjoyed the little review of Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail.
If time is the straight and uniform string of beads most people think it is, and if I have matured gracefully, then the second half of this book should be better than the first half."It is difficult to characterize a compilation of miscellaneous works like this, but I did notice that a common idea seemed to penetrate Vonnegut's writing and interviews in the second half of the book -- the idea that human beings are meant to live in small social groups and that we are uncomfortable in other situations."Until recent times, you know, human beings usually had a permanent community of relatives.
So full of interesting thoughts and insights. You get transported to America during the Vietnam War, to Biafra during its war, to the election of Nixon. But many of the ideas have even more punch today, in a merciless kind of way. It's a collection of essays, speeches and an interview, so it's not entirely even, but there are many, many parts that made me pause and think. What more could you want from a book?
It was a slow burn for me, but the intro, the school lectures and Playboy interview were all very strong.
This is so untrue that it makes me want to cry - or laugh."Wampeters, Foma & Granfalloons (1964 - 1974) is - as Kurt Vonnegut describes it himself - "a collection of some of the reviews and essays I have written, a few speeches I have made." This very uneven collection, in which the "meh" pieces overshadow the interesting ones, is a rather disappointing mix of deep insights, well-aimed bitter sarcasm, trademark Vonnegut's pessimism, aimless ramblings, and even outright failed pieces of writing.One of the best essays, Excelsior!
Though he is Ivy League educated (Cornell, and then some graduate studies at Chicago), the son and grandson of architects, and lived most of his life in New York among the creme de la creme of the American intelligentsia, Vonnegut often trots out this naive Midwestern "Hoosier" personality to give his political observations populist weight (and to serve as an excuse for not delving into technocratic minutiae of large-scale diplomatic issues - nuclear weapons, genocide, etc).
I don't find myself disagreeing, really, in any way with the positions Vonnegut takes - so why my distaste?
I suppose it's because Vonnegut takes these positions, purposefully, in such a general way that no one really could disagree with him.
I think that one of the regrettable things about living in the modern moment is that people seem to ape his hard, sarcastic, yet chillingly blase and snickering style as the true voice of experience: "Hi ho, So It Goes, etc" though Vonnegut seemed to be one of those people who were really and truly damaged and enlightened by his experiences, causing him to look at his own life from an intimate, painful distance.
Przeczytałem dotąd kilka różnych książek pisarza, i choć muszę przyznać, że z poziomem mojego zainteresowania było różnie, to regularnie przyciągał mnie sposób pisania autora.
Recenzje książek, których nigdy na oczy się nie widziało, mogą porywać wyłącznie ciekawymi sformułowaniami.
Pierwszy jest interesujący przede wszystkim ze względu na zrozumienie tematu i ciekawe obserwacje Vonneguta, który znalazł się w Biafrze w momencie, gdy ze wszystkich stron otaczały ją wojska nigeryjskie.Jedynym, co może przekonać do książki osoby, które nie interesowały się polityką i kulturą amerykańską przełomu lat 60.
Co najmniej kilka razy uśmiechałem się, widząc wyjątkowo trafne moim zdaniem sformułowania.Książka raczej dla koneserów, osób, których celem jest przeczytanie wszystkich prac Vonneguta.
you get some idea of vonnegut, the man, where he came from, what his obsessions include, what he ignores and so you wonder why...he had a sheepdog named sandy.
sandy sounds like an interesting dog.
and so on.interesting tale about biafra...he went there w/vance bourjaily and some woman i forget her name, miriam reik, or something like that, daughter of someone famous.
people were busy killing one another and the rest of the world was helping one side or another but by and by it was one side doing the majority...course, at the time, the u.s.a. was in vietnam so we are the great satan, nevermind events in biafra.
A collection of speeches, short articles, and one short story from the late 1960's to about 1972. Like most such oollections, uneven, but worth reading for the Playboy Interview, an article about his visit to Biafra (probably not a good idea for him), and his views on the Vietnam war.Probably not the best place to start for those who haven't read Vonnegut before, or who don't have any memories of the Vietnam-era protests.
Not my favorite Vonnegut, but an interesting collection of his non-fiction, with a bizarre one act play for added flavor. His review of fear and loathing on the campaign trail 1972 offers a good insight into his opinions of his contemporaries. His report on biafra is a heartbreaking chronicle of a country that has already been forgotten. I guess it's time to go back and read his fiction again.
This was a pleasant surprise of a book. After reading Palm Sunday and other of Vonnegut's essays and lectures, I found this volume to be much more poignant, more readable, more full of Vonnegut's core as a philosopher and commentator on war, civilization, and the arts. If a person wanted to venture beyond his fiction, this and Man Without a Country would be solid starting points.
A fantastic collection of Vonnegut's unpublished works and thoughts. I found the Playboy Interview at the end to be the capstone of the book since it summarized all opinions presented quite nicely. I have to say, Vonnegut's perspective on the world is refreshing and agreeable. He puts moral issues and dilemmas in the simplest terms and isn't afraid to say what is right and wrong.
Good stuff here for fans and for future fans. A good read if you're a writer or want to be in the future.
"Bitter coatings on sugar pills."
Sometimes you just want to have a long conversation with somebody with a cynical but big heart - and since mumbling to yourself in public is frowned upon, this is the next best thing.
A nice collection of Vonnegut essays.
The Playboy interview alone makes this collection worth reading, with Vonnegut proving once again to be so prescient.
He couldn’t create on camera a character we could love or hate.
His speeches were a let down, and there was one essay I just couldn’t be bothered to complete.
This is surprising given that I’m a big Vonnegut fan and have read 15 of his books.
At the same time, this merely proves to me that I’m not on autopilot when reading him, and that I’m still a discerning fan.
The one which struck me the most was “Slaughter House Five“, but I enjoyed the couple I read and I bought several more intending to complete more of his works.
Well, life got in the way and I’ve never gotten around to them.
This is actually a terrific little book about science fiction, life, war, peace and honesty.
I highly recommend it!!
As I said – highly recommended.
And now I really do want to read several of his other works which have been sitting on my shelf for thirty odd years…
Hard to read but not for the reason you may think.
Hard because once again Kurt is so right.
I grew up during the Vietnam War. His take on our government then and since is simply chilling.
Even then he was sounding the alarm on the environment and the out of control war machine.
Read, read, read and read again.
It goes by quickly.
I got an autographed blank check too.
I was coming from a toga party and therefore had nothing for him to autograph.
I still have the check and my original copy of Cat's Cradle.

It's a bit of a mishmash of essays, speeches, book reviews and even a short play, but somehow it all seems to fit together.
It is remarkable that this book, which is very concerned with things that were going on in the early nineteen seventies, still seems relevant so many decades later.
Perhaps this is because Vonnegut always saw the big picture and could cut through the noise of the moment to point out what mattered and what didn't, and the importance of being kind, unselfish, and trying not to kill the planet are still things we need to hear today.
The reviews of other novels, ‘Fortitude,’ and the Playboy Interview really sat with me. ‘There’s a Maniac Out There’ was by far my favorite. Hearing about Vonnegut’s respect for Capote helped to capacitate this true-crime essay based on the Truro murders hooked me more in fifteen pages than the 300+ pages of Capote’s own ‘In Cold Blood.’The speeches and addresses weren’t addressed or spoken to me, so I didn’t care for any of them. What a surprise. Vonnegut’s really teaching me to be a top-notch asswipe.
