https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39832183-the-guernsey-literary-and-potato-peel-pie-society
At that moment, Guernsey was marked in my mind.Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrow’s new book, “The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society” is an opportunity to travel back in time to 1946 Guernsey.Beginning early 1946 in London, Juliet Ashton, a British writer, and former war journalist, is emerging from the ashes of the war to rebuild her life and her identity.
The deprivations and devastation of the time are imaginatively and convincingly conveyed.At its core, this is a book about the love of reading, and the magic of books.I highly, highly recommend “The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society”.
Dear Mary Ann Shaffer,I recently read your book 'The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society'.
Soon Juliet is exchanging letters with the members of Guernsey literary society and people talk about what books they like and why.
Then suddenly everyone forgets about the books and Guernsey people start sharing their most intimate experiences from the time during the world war with Juliet, who is only a stranger.
To add to this drama, halfway through the book Mary Ann shifted the focus to Juliet trying to decide between different love interests (too many people love her, you know).
*3.5 stars* “Perhaps there is some secret sort of homing instinct in books that brings them to their perfect readers. How delightful if that were true.” Believe it or not—as shallow as this may sound—the stunning movie tie-in cover was the catalyst, goading me to take a hard look and commit to a book that’s done little more than float along my periphery for years.What do you get when you combine a roast pig dinner, an unavoidable lie and the most unappetizing pie? A mouthful: The Guernsey Litera
Born from the quick thinking of a woman caught out after curfew and continued initially to thwart suspicion from the German occupation, The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society took on a life of its own, becoming a salvation to the people of the small channel island during WWII.
Providing hope, friendship and for some, a new-found love for books.An epistolary novel (one told entirely through letters and telegrams), The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society picks up post-war, in 1946, relaying bits and pieces from the lives of what can only be described as a witty cast.
Annie Barrows and Mary Ann Schaffer - image from from chrestomanci.over-blog.com - Schaffer wrote most of the book, but was terminally ill so called in her niece, Barrows, to help her complete it.The GL&PPPS tells of Nazi occupation of this Channel Island during WW II.
The story is told via a series of letters exchanged between residents of the island and a writer attempting to learn about their experiences.
Another important aspect is how all the characters relate around literature.From the film - image from Amazon Shaffer offers us a charming and wide-ranging palette of humanity trying their best to cope under very trying circumstances.
This is probably due to the fact it was written in letters to loved ones and not the subject matter itself, as it focuses heavily on the atrocities of WWII.
Nothing makes me happier than reading a book about why reading is wonderful.I read this because I watched and loved the Netflix adaptation (yes, I'm that monster who sometimes watches adaptations before reading the source material).
I think I may have liked the movie slightly more, not that this was bad or anything.
So if you liked the book, I recommend the movie and vice versa!
I was meant to read this for a book club but it was about as palatable as a potato peel pie so I spat it out uneaten.Now, I'm sure there are American authors who can write in an authentic British voice (no one springs to mind, and Elizabeth George is terrible at it but at least her plot is not clunky) but Mary Ann Shaffer isn't one of them.This book has an epistolary plot that just goes clunk clunk clunk.Firstly, it is set in London in 1946 where we meet a fairly posh author who, rather than using the polite and rather stilted language that people used in 1946 sounds like Sex in the City circa 2008.I mean, come on, Mary Ann, have you ever even read a letter from 1946?So, you have letters flying around in 1946 which sound like they were written sixty years later.
I'm in favor of:-pig farmers as romantic leads-parrots named Zenobia who eat cuckoo clocks-women who do the askingI'm not in favor of:-strong silent types as romantic leads-adorable children-parrots getting more page time than goats
So yes, clearly I loved this book.I think the only person I wouldn’t recommend this book to is one of those people who only read meaty tomes that might give regular people a brain embolism while they’re trying to make sense of the 17 different layers of subconscious meaning.
She had penned her name and address inside the cover and Dawsey decided to write her a letter to share how much he’d enjoyed her secondhand book and how reading books had helped several Guernsey residents cope during the time of the German Occupation of their island.
‘’Real dyed-in-the-wool readers can’t lie. Our faces always give us away. A raised brow or a curled lip means that it’s a poor excuse for a book, and the clever customers ask for recommendation instead, whereupon we frog-march them over to a particular volume and command them to read it.’’ Following an exciting April, I chose to start May with a focus on more contemporary, approachable reads that are simple but rich in themes focusing on the relationships within a family, within the members of
Following an exciting April, I chose to start May with a focus on more contemporary, approachable reads that are simple but rich in themes focusing on the relationships within a family, within the members of small communities.
A letter of chance by Dawsey, a resident of Guernsey, brings the literary society with the astonishing name and the special background to her attention and what was meant to be a simple research becomes a journey of self-discovery.I love the way the setting and the era come alive through the pages of this book.
Just as in real life.I didn’t come to think of this novel as a ‘’feel-good’’ story.
So obviously I recommend it!In my March 2018 buddy read with Trish (which kind of disintegrated because she raced ahead and finished the whole book in like one day :p) I was impressed with how well the authors melded actual historical facts about the island of Guernsey during WWII, and people's wartime experiences, with the novel's storyline.
When she decides to go visit Guernsey and her pen pal friends there - upsetting her current boyfriend in the process - her life gradually becomes intertwined with theirs.This book includes some fun and often quirky characters, quite a bit of interesting (and sometimes harrowing) WWII history, a love for literature, frequent humor, and just a little bit of romance.
This was one of the lovliest books I have ever read.
I have read many books and seen many movies about World War II, but this one was the best.
It was so real.
I felt like I knew the characters and I wanted to run over to Guernsey to meet them in person.
Horrible things happened to them, but I didn't feel traumatized reading about them.
I felt uplifted at their endurance and hope, and love for each other.
(I seem to have a weakness for books written as letters.) 7/26/11 re-read and it was still lovely
Very faithful to the book, if not in plot (can't remember details 7 years later), certainly in tone.
There is a distinct air of wholesomeness, inoffensiveness about it, plus it is occasionally funny (in a cute, inoffensive way), with a bit of tragic war business thrown in.
From the moment the main character, Juliet, a young writer, came to Guersney to visit her pen pals, the whole story just got way too cute for my taste.
Even the dark parts of the novel - about the war, occupation, and concentration camps - were sort of glossed over.The story simply needed more complex characters, more drama, edgier experiences.
I generally like novels in letters, it’s almost like peering into lighted windows at night as you pass, sewing the bits of life seen there into a coherent whole.It’s fun, this book, in its witty comments, sort of the way I wish I could talk all the time.
Everybody in the book writes witty letters, but they are all witty in much the same way.
The authors have taken pains to write clearly different characters, but their manner of writing letters boils them down to the same soup.I also began to tire of all these characters who are characters.
How can you write a review for a book that put perpetual smile on your face for 277 pages?? Definition of “supremely-enjoyable-while-reading” kind of book for me: so delightful, real funny and warm. Five long years since I first put this on my tbr shelf, should have read it a lot sooner...rating: ★★★★½
Potato Peel Pie is a tongue twister!Written by Mary Ann Shaffer who was a librarian, an editor, and a great family storyteller, The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society, is an epistolary novel about the trials of the people living in the Channel Islands, in particular, Guernsey, during the German occupation of World War 2.I learned a lot, but in an entirely easy and fun way so you don't realize it, as you're reading an amazing book.The only book ever written by Shaffer, she put her whole heart and soul in it and it is lovely.
تبدأ الرواية برسالة من أحد سكان جزيرة غرينزي التابعة للتاج البريطاني، موجهة للكاتبة جولييت الساكنة بلندن، والتي حقق كتابها الأخير الذي يسرد وقائع وقصص لبريطانيين عاشوا الحرب العالمية الثانية نجاحًا كبيرًا، فقرأه أحد سكان الجزيرة، وراسلها كمعجب، وأخبرها أنه أحد أعضاء نادي أدبي يدعى جمعية غرينزي للأدب تم تأسيسه أثناء احتلال الألمان للجزيرة، فتنجذب الكاتبة للرسالة ولاسم الجمعية الطريف، ويبدأ التعارف بينهما، لتصبح هذه الرسائل بداية لرحلة تخوضها الكاتبة بين سكان الجزيرة، حيث تسافر إليهم وتتعرف على أعضاء الجمعية، وتنهمر الحكايات تباعًا ولا تتمنى أن تتنهى.
A young woman, Juliet, wrote funny stories using a pseudonym for the paper to bring up morale.
Now she is looking for her next project when she receives a letter from Guernsey.
Dawsey came across a book she owned by Charles Lamb.
Since her name and address were in the flyleaf he decided to write her and let her know he had the book and loved it.
She learns about The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society and how it came to be during the five years the island was occupied by German soldiers.
And decides to write a book about it.
But, mostly stories of survival on both sides of the conflict.
It's a series of letters in post WWII England between an author facing writers block and an island community who formed a book club during the German occupation.
Eventually we meet the characters (who, oddly, have the same voice as the author in their letters) who come to describe one saintly, cliche, full of b.s. woman who held them all together during the occupation, while she manages to slap an overly-religious type, find the one good, true human Nazi and have his child (yep) and then die tragically simply by being her holier-than-this-earth self.Two stars for one of two well thought-out paragraphs buried among the 200 something pages.
A friend gave this to me with the recommendation, “You’ll LOVE this – it sounds like you!” I assume she meant because the main character is a witty book lover, not because she’s a critical spinster.
When she receives a letter from a Guernsey man who has in his possession a book she used to own, and finds out that during the war he belonged to a “Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society,” she’s intrigued.
Juliet begins corresponding with the various members of the society, but eventually decides she wants to go to Guernsey to meet them in person — as will you!!
I don't do this often, but I am commanding my fellow Good Read Sisters to stop what they are doing, order a pizza for the family and hide yourselves away with this book!
You all deserve a treat and if I could I would come run your homes while you read - this book is that good.
[if you read it you'll understand this question] And you all know how I feel about Anne.This is one of those great books that reminds us that the written word is a universal language that can speak to all of us, regardless of age or class.
It reminds us why we read: to know that we are not alone.
THERE’S A MOVIE!I read this book ages ago.
Loved it, then forgot much about it.
But guess what?
The actors (all of them unknowns) were excellent, as were the plot, atmosphere, etc.
It’s intricate and sophisticated, and thankfully not a soap.
Now I realize why I loved the book, and of course now I want to reread it.This is a WWII love story, and the plot revolves around a book club.
Anyway, I highly recommend the movie.
The bad news is, it’s a Netflix Original, so unless you’re a subscriber, you won’t be able to watch it.
What a painful read.I won't dwell too long on what makes this book so wrong, but let's start with the problem of how difficult it is for a GOOD writer to develop character via the epistolary form.
The setting and timing of this story never come together, and descriptions of war are thrown in on the side for added drama.
The book is not worth your time or frustration, as you can never really care about the characters or their half-slopped-together miss-mash of a story.
The book HAS such potential but never gets anywhere near it.
4.5 Stars”We'll meet againDon't know whereDon't know whenBut I know we'll meet again some sunny dayKeep smiling throughJust like you always do'Till the blue skies drive the dark clouds far away” -- We’ll Meet Again,Vera Lynn / Frank Sinatra, Songwriters: Hughie Charles / Ross Parker Published posthumously in August of 2008, The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society recalls the occupation of the Western European Channel Islands during WWII through letters and telegrams, which sounds very
4.5 Stars”We'll meet againDon't know whereDon't know whenBut I know we'll meet again some sunny dayKeep smiling throughJust like you always do'Till the blue skies drive the dark clouds far away”	-- We’ll Meet Again,Vera Lynn / Frank Sinatra, Songwriters: Hughie Charles / Ross Parker Published posthumously in August of 2008, The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society recalls the occupation of the Western European Channel Islands during WWII through letters and telegrams, which sounds very basic and to the point, and leaves out all the charm and emotions involved.
Or the fact that it has two authors (the second recruited apparently when the first, her aunt, sadly became too ill to complete it.) Or the fact that it is a series of letters, or what literary types call an "epistolary novel".
I was dubious that American authors would really capture the feel of these times for Guernsey folk, or the nuances of life on such a small island.
To cover such a broad spectrum of experience and mood requires a skilful author, whom we have.Enough has been written elsewhere giving descriptions of this novel.
This book is a fictional collection of letters, telegrams, and notes centered on an author, Juliet Ashton, who connects with the Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society (Society).
The letters are primarily about residences of Guernsey during the occupation by the Germany Army, during WWII.The Society came about due to friends being caught out, by the Army, after curfew.
Not wanting to give the real reason for being out one of the group, Elizabeth, concocted the story of being at a literary club meeting.Juliet is looking for subject matter for a couple of projects and becomes interested in the people she communicates with in Guernsey.
Juliet finds enough information about Guernsey, the occupation, and the Society to complete volumes.
Nevertheless, this was a really endearing story about the power that books have to bring people together—so how can it not be great?It's told in a series of letters and telegrams between characters, but mostly from the perspective of Juliet Ashton, a journalist and book lover from England, just after the end of WWII.
Granted, it deals with some pretty sad material as you'd expect with a story following WWII, but the characters don't wallow and aren't full of despair because they have each other and their shared loved of books to bind them together.Again, my only issue was the ending.
Historia ligera, entrañable, divertida... Me enganchó desde el primer momento (Super fan del formato epistolar) aunque hubiera agradecido más diferencia entre las cartas de un personaje a otro.Me lo he pasado muy bien leyéndola, hay momentos duros pero realmente toda la lectura desprende un optimismo y un amor por los libros genial.Tan solo hubiera suprimido tantos líos amorosos.... Ya se sabe que yo muy de romance no soy.
However would have given it 5 stars only felt characters a little confusing at times and also juliet story a little predictable and the fact that the islanders was to quick to trust Juliet and the responsibality they gave her a little unbelievable but again I am picking at staws really.
There is so much in this book that makes it an excellent story and an education in itself and would have given it 4.5 stars if I was able to.
Her correspondence with her publisher and friends is much less cautious.What follows is her visit to the island where she is put up in the cottage of a popular resident, Elizabeth, who has been imprisoned in a camp in Germany but who has left her 4-year-old daughter Kit in the care of the literary society.The islanders remind me of skittish animals – curious, shy, affectionate, reserved, suspicious – all those things, but mostly anxious to tell their war stories and share their new-found love for books in the hopes that Juliet will write honestly and kindly about them.
¡Lo amé! De principio a fin Juliet, sus cartas y los habitantes de Guernsey se quedarán en nuestro corazón.Reseña pronto, en el canal :)
