https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22027.The_Dark_Arena
i felt touched with this story of a soldier who couldn't again get in touch with his loved ones at homeland and that made him return to Germany to find the only one, his woman, who got all his trust during darkest days of the WWII.
what he lost was not only his loved one, not only his family or his nation, but also his trust in life.
at the end of the novel, he got lost, and tried to run away, cared nothing for what was next in his life, he left his baby to an old woman who got his wife's trust and got away.
Watch Mario Puzo Hemingway his way around in a first novel published under his own name, after the bad start that was Six Graves to Munich.
For a longest while I thought The Dark Arena was his first published book.
Sometimes writers go through this, I am not naive, I just thought Puzo was a masterwordsmith from the get go.
But then again, Tawni O'Dell wrote five novels she thought she Should write before getting her Back Roads (an excellent novel) published, every writer's woes, I suppose.
The Dark Arena ; A novel that is more Hemingway than Hemingway's own work.
Like most people, the reason I read this book is that I LOVED the Godfather.
It felt like he had to write another book, that people would enjoy.
Well, this book wasn't written by the Puzo people loved because of his gift for writing about mafia.
This book was written by the romantic Puzo who loved Dostoyevsky's novels and wanted to write about character who were emotionally suffering.
The extreme cynicism of the main character, his being unable to care about anything, his wanting to escape life and the world (kinda like Holden, although this book's got nothing to do with the Catcher in the Rye).
This was Mario Puzo's first novel and became a bestseller after he wrote the superb Godfather. Obviously many readers(like me)who'd read the Godfather raced to buy the The Dark Arena. It is dreadful, beyond dreadful in fact, poorly written a terrible and totally boring storyline and it is hard to believe that the author of the Godfather penned this rubbish. It is testimony though to his enormous improvement as a writer and story-teller in his later novels.
The most interesting thing about this book is the author did not focus only on building the main character, he is, Mosca, like other characters, does not seem to be the spotlight of the whole story. In my opinion, this is a good book, it makes me understand more about the war, especially my DAD. A little bit haunting and darkness. All the characters seem to stuck in something in their lifes.
Although the the setting was intriguing, post war occupied Germany, I really did not like this book. The main character just did not have an redeeming qualities. He seemed to have no emotions or feelings, no matter who was hurt or killed. He finally seemed to have a bit of love for his German mistress but even that seemed forced at times. It is a very, dark, unforgiving book and one I would not recommend.
I expected a "Godfather" setting, but it's totally different: there is no honour here. Published in 1953, it shows Americans in Germany in the years after the War. The conquerors and the conquered living in a city of ruins. It is savage, and brutal, and there is no-one to blame. Puzo lays out the emotions and thoughts in precise, delicate detail. A real masterpiece.
Las cicatrices de la guerra tardan en curar. Walter, en su vida de soldado recién licenciado al acabar la segunda Guerra Mundial, no encuentra su sitio en los Estados Unidos. Al volver a Alemania se encontrará otro mundo donde la violencia y el amor se entremezclan.
Unreadable!
in my opinion it's one of the best Puzo's books (after the Godfather). I enjoyed it very much! )))
Another super sad Puzo, but something about his writing makes you read until the very end, despite the inevitable misery and emptiness you're going to feel.
Puzo's little known 'The Dark Arena' is a forgotten gem.
The commercial failure of this novel apparently pushed him to writing pulp crime stories and the rest is history.
It's not difficult to imagine why this book didn't do well.
Its a dark, very dark love story set in post-World War 2 Germany.
The protagonist is a misanthrope.
The heroine is a wimp.
The love story is doomed right from the word go.
'The Dark Arena' may not have set cash registers ringing, but it surely gives glimpses of what Puzo was capable of, a promise he fulfilled many times over.
I found this to be rather dull and boring, it portrayed a pretty decent atmosphere of post war Germany however none of the characters were particularly likeable and the story didn't really move me in anyway what so ever. The ending was also quite bland for everything you had to sit through to get there.I'm surprised it's written by the same person as Godfather, his writing certainly matured with time.
I love Mario puzo but not just because of Godfather and so on (which I love too) . He has written different styles of books and I always enjoyed them. This one, a novel about a soldier after war, how life change you and how you react to all of that. He created a good bunch of different characters with different ways to live, think and face life. Each of them has their own internal war.
Тяжёлая книга для чтения. Главный герой очень жесток и эгоистичен, не только к окружающим, но и к себе. Все действия происходят после Второй Мировой Войны и описывают жизнь, и быт американского солдата в одном из немецких городов.
Do not expect it to be the same masterpiece as "The Godfather" is. It's a good book, although the plot line sometimes seemed to be predictable.
The sort of story that Band of Brothers never got around to telling - the raw reality of life in the ruins of Germany during post-war Europe.
There isn't any sort of secretive plotting or manipulation or anything like what he writes so well.
I found all of the characters pretty hard to relate to.Yet somehow I enjoyed it, it in no way felt like a drag.
I also find Camus's characters to be like that.Or maybe it was because I read this book during a week where I am working from 8PM to 5AM and everything is just a little off.
It certainly seems that way as I write this at 4:15 AM and am comparing a main character who is a dick and my least favorite of Puzo's books to characters/books from one of my absolute favorite authors.
This book takes place after World War II in Germany.
He returns to Germany for the woman he fell for while he was stationed there.The author does a fantastic job with the setting and the mood for this novel.
One cannot help but get a feeling of dreadfulness throughout this novel as people try to move on from war and put their lives back together.
The description of the setting is intense as he describes the ruins of homes and the contrasting nature of people partying in this world.
There is nothing positive about this book and I could not connect with any aspect of this novel.
Título: A Guerra SujaAutor: Mario PuzoTradução: Áurea WeissenbergEditora: RecordAno: 1955Comprar: Infelizmente só nos sebos.Resenha:Este é o primeiro livro de Mario Puzo, para quem está costumado com O Poderoso Chefão, pode não gostar de A Guerra Suja.
Acho o livro um relato fiel de uma Alemanha devastada e subjugada pelos americanos após a derrota na Segunda Guerra Mundial.A obra conta a história de Walter, jovem soldado americano, que se alista ao exercício com o idealismo de combater o nazismo que oprimia os judeus.
É assim se tornando um homem sem escrúpulos, frio e que gosta de matar.Com o fim da Guerra ele volta pra casa, mas não consegue se adaptar ao seu antigo estilo de vida americano.
The first thing that strikes you when you read The Dark Arena is the stark contrast to the other works of Puzo like The godfather, Last Don and the likes.
Not surprising as it is one of the earlier works of Puzo.
We are able to figure out Mosca completely only towards the end of the book.When the tragedy finally strike it is completely unexpected and heartbreaking.
Puzo more than makes up for the earlier parts of book with the tense, pressure cooker mood sustained throughout the end.
La primer novela de Mario Puzo.He de confesar que este es uno de los libros que abandoné el año pasa
I struggled to get through this one, it became to dry of a read.
This was the first book of Puzo I had read and I thought, "It's bound to be a good read since I had enjoyed the Godfather so much." It was nothing what I had anticipated.
After reading it my first thought was, "Wow!
I don't know if I want to read another one of his or not!" I came to realize though that this was Puzo's very first novel, so if i do read another one it will be the "Godfather".
Tento první román světoznámého prozaika se odehrává v poválečném Německu.
Je to období norimberského procesu a okupačních zón, ale i doba nových možností pro poctivé i podnikavce bez skrupulí.
Americký voják Walter Mosca se obohacuje obchodem na černém trhu.
Válka udělala z tohoto 23letého mladíka drsného muže spoléhajícího jen na vlastní sílu.
Jediným, na kom lpí, je něžná milující Hella, s níž má syna; když ji však tragicky ztrácí, nezadrží ho už nic na cestě násilí, na kterou se dal...
Německá kritika označila Temnou arénu za nejlepší americký román o životě v poválečném Německu.
The Dark Arena by Mario Puzo...
The first book of Puzo (1957).
Set entirely in the backdrop of the aftermath of WWII.
Mosca from the US was a soldier of the Allied Forces returns home after war but emotionally bitter returns back to Germany where he finds solace to his perturbation, loses his love Hella (German) to the dire conditions after the war.
Puzo has portrayed the play of human emotions when the world seems to be at the end.
Well written no wonder Godfather was a great success..
The novel starts with a bang but drags a bit at the mid and speeds up to the climax.
My first Puzo, which I had on hand, and would help me decide to buy the Godfather or not.
Yup, I'll be picking up the Godfather the next time I get a chance.
The Dark Arena was good, not great, but it was definitely an enjoyable read exposing a time and setting I was not very familiar with.
The characters, although not very likable (which I've seen other reviewers complain about), we very well done, each fitting in their own niche.
Overall it wasn't a very pleasant book, not what one would call a beach read, but it was definitely worth reading as Puzo spins a good tale.
Somehow I thought this book of his was his best.
Godfather off course remains a classic but this book had more pathos and closer to reality in terms of war and its aftermath.
He draws from himself being a soldier and witnessing death at close quarters.
He tells a story of a man without nation, without love and hope.
He returns to America after WW2 and realizes there is nothing left for him there.
He moves to Germany to pick up lost threads and fails.
What is left is a life without anything to look forward to and in utter darkness.
For some reason i cant give ratIngs with this phone i got, i dont have a computer.
But i want to give this book 5 stars.
I cant believe the average rating is less than 4 stars, wack.
I cant remember the dudes name who is the star of the book but i remember the book.
What, i dont get it, someone didnt like it cause it wasnt fake.
I read it in like one night as i was in twin towers los angeles county jail level 9, waiting for the chain.
My cellys name was rob and his dad sent him the book.
This came as a pleasant surprise. I didn't go in expecting to like this book, and the first few pages didn't make an impression on me either, but as the book progressed, I actually grew to like it. Though I usually don't read stuff that are not a-thousand-things-happening-at-once stuff, this book was more that good enough to keep me in it's grip. I must say, Mario Puzo knows his business. More than the plot, it's the subtle way he narrates that makes it worth reading. I just may give his other novels a chance.
Some People might not agree it as one of the greatest work by Puzo but this is mostly because they expect a godfather like story from this book which is completely the reader's contradiction of interest. The story set about a soldier after the war is indeed a compelling one. The fortunate Pilgrim and The Dark Arena in my opinion are two great books written by Mario Puzo who is well-known for his work of Mafia story.
