https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3974.The_Terror
Associated Publishing Industries Unlimited, Ltd. products must strictly adhere to our "One Novel, One Genre" company philosophy.
(a) Lack of Traditional Romance; (b) Negative AND Positive Depictions of Homosexual Activity;(c) Interracial Sexuality Not Resulting in Punishment and/or Death of Non-White Character by Novel's End. Please understand that our editorial staff has no personal issues with any of the above-noted items (in fact, our marketing department actively supports the targeting of the lucrative Gay/Homosexual demographic within our Ghettoized Associated Publishing Industries Unlimited, Ltd. subset label).
Too Many Big Words.We sincerely thank you for your time/effort.Signed,An Associated Publishing Industries Unlimited, Ltd. Representative
plus boats and ice and monster.like the descent, it is the supernatural elements of the story that end up being the least scary.
there are tons of details about rigging and naval protocol and ice conditions and many repetitions of the survivor's names - there are echoes of moby dick here, in its dullish bits about whale anatomy that might be a staple of maritime fiction for all i know, but make the progress a little slower than the monstrous stephen king i read as the other horror title for this class.
One of my favorite crew members was Irving, he was such a nice guy and he was told by Captain Crozier to watch over Silence because he didn't trust her.
I also liked Captain Crozier, Fitzjams who took over for Sir John, Mr. Diggle and Blanky.
•On a Tuesday dogwatch in the third week of November, the thing from the ice came aboard the Erebus and took the well-liked bosun, Mr. Thomas Terry, snatching him from his post near the stern, leaving only the man's head on the railing.•I thought this was a really good book.
All I could think as I read the first few chapters was "ice floe, nowhere to go." I think that might have taken away from the tone a bit.But here are some other more text-based reasons for the seething black pit of hatred that I have for this book:a) History or supernatural, Simmons needs to pick a side because the two storylines always seemed to run parallel to one another and never quite came together.
It was like, "Okay, for 100 pages, I'm going to have the men fearing for their lives as this thing attacks them.
Wowza!This is such a long book!!!!!!!Don’t go into this one unless you enjoy big books, having the patience to let the story evolve and knowing that the pace can be slow at times.I stuck in there from the beginning and the ending was well worth it!
The Arctic was its own character in this book with the constant darkness and freezing conditions.Good grief, I now need to go on a vacation to a warm, tropical island after reading this book!This was a re-telling of the Franklin expedition from the details of the officers, seamen and the steps they took that got them stuck in the ice during the period of 1845-1848 near King William Island.
At that point, I would have given the book two or maybe three stars.Then, at some point, things brightened up--the plot started shifting into gear, with all the various elements (the terror, the ice, scurvy, boredom, and inter-character conflict) starting to come together.
The pages here are quite gripping, even as the moral valence isn't terribly complicated.What does become complicated, and what ultimately elevates this book, is the relationship between Captain Crozier and "Lady Silence" that emerges after Crozier is left for dead by Hickey and his band.
Dan Simmons weaves together a fictionalized possible explanation to what happened to the men aboard both these sister ships, incorporating both real and supernatural horrors that fill the story with a limitless supply of dread.Some of the best horror is borne out of that same sense of isolation that proliferates this novel.
I went into this novel hoping to be impressed by the supernatural bear-demon hunting a trapped crew in the artic and came away feeling like the depth and actions of certain characters really blew that out of the water.
The Terror is a fictional tale based on the real life experience of the notoriously doomed John Franklin Expedition.These brave men journeyed hundreds of miles by sea voyage in the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, part of the British Naval fleet sent to the Arctic to force the Northwest Passage in 1845–1848, and then travelled the rest on foot into the desolate, below-freezing temperatures of the Arctic wasteland. All died or were never seen or heard from ever again.Dan Simmons imaginative story expla
The Terror is a fictional tale based on the real life experience of the notoriously doomed John Franklin Expedition.These brave men journeyed hundreds of miles by sea voyage in the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, part of the British Naval fleet sent to the Arctic to force the Northwest Passage in 1845–1848, and then travelled the rest on foot into the desolate, below-freezing temperatures of the Arctic wasteland.
The Terror is a book drawn from a historical background so deep and so thoroughly well-researched that I'm quite sure I've never heard of any other writer of fiction attempting to do so at this level ever before.
You will feel like you are living this book.
I absolutely loved this book.
Don't let the page length stop you from reading it!
Despite its length, the story moves quickly and there's incredible tension throughout.
There are a ton of characters to keep you interested (but not too many that you lose track) and who you'll want to scream at for doing the wrong thing or an incredibly awful thing.
Don't think of this as a horror book with a monster...
The last 200 pages were a triumph IMO...
Simply one of the best books I have ever read!PS: The actual ship was just found this past September.

I wanted to read more doorstops and more books by non-American authors.
So far in 2016, (ignore all those Koontz rereads, please and thank you) I've spent a considerable amount of time seeking out and reading authors who were not born or do not live in America and snowshoeing my way through massive tomes the likes of which Dan Simmons is known to write.
This book is a stunning accomplishment and I'm thrilled I finally had a chance to read it.Final Judgment: A modern classic.Spoiler Discussion: In which I spoil The Terror, by Dan Simmons.
It is about hubris, greed, strength during unspeakable adversity, and possibly redemption.Oh, there's also a terrifying monster that they call The Thing on The Ice which is slowly killing everyone aboard the two ships.It's Dan Simmons, so he takes his time getting into the meat of the story (my dad said that he was telling three stories when he could have told one) but I consider that to be a feature of his writing, rather than a bug.I absolutely loved this novel.
There is some closure (I know that word is overused, but it fits) at the end.(view spoiler)[The character Hickey goes on my list of one of the most horrifying fictional evil bad guys ever, alongside Hannibal the Cannibal.
Hickey committed an evil in using Magnus as an assassin when Magnus had a child-like mentality and obviously could not understand fully why he was being ordered to kill people.
I thought the takeaway was a demonstration of how evil Hickey was in faking empathy and love, not in how homosexual he was, gentle reader.
This imaginative re-telling of the doomed Franklin expedition of 1845 to find the Northwest Passage is overwhelming in its details of life and death in the Arctic north.
The two ships of the expedition, the HMS Erebus and the HMS Terror, sail from England in 1845 and explore the area around Beechey Island and Cornwallis Island before attempting to sail south between Prince of Wales Island and Boothia Peninsula to find the Northwest Passage through the Arctic Circle to the Pacific Ocean.
Eventually, the men have to abandon ship and take off on foot across King William Island to try to find a passage south and, hopefully, rescue.
Dan Simmons is an author's author.
Every time I read something by him that is either A: not quite in my interest zone, or B: reads workmanlike but nothing particularly brilliant, he SQUASHES my expectations.HMS Terror and Erebus are out to find the Northwest Passage.
This is not a Darwin Award I'm reading, even though a few characters WERE on the Beagle.This is a harrowing and perfectly period descent into an icy hell.
Just keep telling yourself that, buddy.I was lukewarm going into this, but it turned out to be one hell of a brilliant frozen horror.
As you can imagine, the true horror comes from the people themselves - their pasts, their characters, what they turn into slowly but surely, what they are prepared to do.What surprised me was that while I read the book and followed the progression of the ships' damages and dying crew, I thought it well-written and intriguing (especially on a psychological level) but nothing else.

Er erwähnt natürlich das der ein oder andere Mal Angst hat aber das könnte er viel besser ausarbeiten, so das ich es auch fühle.
Außerdem kann man sich wirklich Bildhaft vorstellen, wie so eine Expedition aufgebaut ist, wirklich gut recherchiert 👌🏻Es ist ja im Grunde von Anfang an klar, das Franklin sich falsch entschieden hat und das wird sehr gedehnt, jede darauffolgende Entscheidung und Unternehmung war ähnlich gestrickt und vorhersehbar.
Die Tunbaaq-Sache war interessant aber sehr abstrakt und in den ersten 600 Seiten nur ein einziges Mal erwähnt.
Das Ende war grausam, traumatisierenden, ekelerregend und großartig.
On May 1845 two ships, HMS Terror led by captain Crozier and flagship HMS Erebus commanded by captain Fitzjames, set sail on the expedition to find legendary Northwest Passage.
(John Wilson Carmichael/National Maritime Museum)I love reading about discovering new lands, brave travellers and adventurers of all descriptions, this mixture of courage, daring and curiosity which pushes people to go into unknown, to find their limits, to experience joy of success but sometimes meet inconceivable disaster.
For people tormented by extreme weather and hostile environment, plagued by starvation and hallucinations, prisoned in the sea of ice for years there was no need for any mythical monsters.
This long (oh so long!) novel about Franklin’s 1848 lost expedition of the HMS Erebus & HMS Terror to the Arctic in hopes of finding a North-West passage was a bit of a mixed bag of highs and lows for me.
Add to this a very weird mix of American and British English meant to convey the lingo of the crew (but more often than not failing to do so), and you’ll understand why I can’t give The Terror five stars.
Wow! This book is quite the adventure - for the characters and the reader. I'm writing my review having not completed the book; I'm 77% finished. I've held onto every single word; have had a hard time putting the book down - I don't want it to end, but it has too. We've lost many beloved characters along the way, and there's one evil doer who remains alive and I can't wait to see what his fate is. I know what he deserves, but we won't go into that ... spoilers and all. Also, what about this cre
This book is quite the adventure - for the characters and the reader.
I've held onto every single word; have had a hard time putting the book down - I don't want it to end, but it has too.
We've lost many beloved characters along the way, and there's one evil doer who remains alive and I can't wait to see what his fate is.
Will the remaining men of the two crews be able to 'conquer the beast' or were the fates of the men on HMS Terror and Erebus written the minute they stepped onto the ice?
I can't wait to see how it all ends.
Having thoroughly enjoyed the 2018 TV series The Terror I wondered what the 2007 novel it was based on might be like.
I checked out some reviews from trusted friends on Goodreads (thanks, Richard!) & off I set.The novel is based on the true story of Sir John Franklin's 1845 expedition to find the North-West Passage.
It's an epic journey for the ships Erebus & Terror, & at over 900 pages it's an equally epic journey for the reader too!Simmons has a fairly simple style of writing, which flows easily.
A linear timeline for this straightforward story would have served better.
WOW! This historic tale of a doomed arctic expedition set in 1845 aboard the HMS TERROR is based on true events and one horrific adventure complete with unbelievably brutal sub-zero temperatures, and a terrifying monster from hell. Loaded with great characters including the mysterious 'Lady Silence' and a unique and surprising ending to say the least. While sometimes descriptively gruesome, an engaging story and thrilling read!
In Simmons' novel, Franklin's ship HMS Erebus becomes trapped in the ice along with the HMS Terror, whose skipper Francis Crozier proves a far steadier command presence as starvation and scurvy set in among the men.
Lady Silence, as Crozier dubs her, is seen as a bad omen as shortly after her arrival on the Terror, giant footprints are found in the ice and a creature begins to prey on the crew.
Simmons had a great novel focusing on starvation, malnutrition and mutiny at the end of the world without the addition of a creature.
Dan Simmons’s 2007 epic horror novel, The Terror, is the finest work of his I’ve yet read.
A historical fiction, this long story documents the failed 1845 Franklin Expedition.
It’s been a long time since I’ve read a horror novel of this stature.
I’ve read a lot of short, grisly stuff lately, so it was nice to kick back with something by Simmons: he who is known for painstakingly detailed, complex narratives.
Part of the horror in this novel comes from the inevitable: we know these men will die; it’s a matter of timing and circumstance.
*Update*Read 02/12 & 03/16This is probably in my top ten for any book in any genre.-----------I'd volunteer for crucifixion before I volunteered for the Franklin Expedition. The supernatural element was unnecessary here; the reality of it alone was horrifying. Top notch storytelling, highly recommended.
Toliko je dobra da sam se smrzavala zajedno sa protagonistima.Na početku nisam bila uverena da će mi knjiga odgovarati jer generalno ne volim kada radnja prati puno likova koji pripovedaju priču iz svog ugla i kada se ta pripovedanja odigravaju u različitim vremenskim segmentima - jednostavno me ne drži koncentracija toliko dugo i često se vraćam na prethodna poglavlja.
Takođe, Simons piše o svom viđenju toga šta se zapravo desilo.
Ako se većina knjige oslanjala na to kako ljudi funkcionišu u nadi da će ipak preživeti nesreću koja ih je zadesila i prati njihove sudbine, poslednjih sedamdesetak stranica je potpuno nov nivo pripovedanja i upliva motiva.
I'm a big Dan Simmons fan, but at several points during this book, I found myself thinking, "will someone get this man an editor?" There's a great horror tale in here. Unfortunately it's buried under layers of fat. Ironic, since lengthy descriptions of starvation and scurvy take up so much space in the book.
The Terror is the fictional story of the Franklin expedition through the Northwest Passage in 1845.
This sturdiness made the ships prime candidates for Arctic and Antarctic service being better able to withstand the pressures of the ice.
Captain Francis Crozier was given command of the Terror in 1839 and sailed with The Erebus both in the Antartic and in The Northwest Passage exploration known as the Franklin expedition after the captain of the Erebus.
The ships and crew are weathering their second winter trapped in the ice west of King William Island.
However, Simmons portrays a fictionalized account of this expedition by expanding this historical narrative into a horror story by dropping in a man eating ice monster to make everybody’s day just a little bit shittier.
However, as I read on, the long descriptive passages and the descriptions of pain and suffering are meant to draw the reader into the story and gain a true understanding of the brutality of the arctic and it's devastating effects on both the human body and soul.
Overall, Simmons depicts a very grim but otherwise realistic account of this failed expedition and, in doing so, has crafted a work of fiction that explores some of the darkest depths of the human soul.
