https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161099.Good_Night_Mr_Tom

As I mentioned, I read this book when I was ten and now twelve years later this book was still beautiful.
An epilogue that made me feel warm and fuzzy.This is book is truly special to me.
Only heathens talk about film on this site.But whatever, I don’t care.Normally I hate watching adaptations of my favourite books because they never ever EVER measure up.
And I think this is the only exception.I think I’ve seen this film at least ten times (five of those viewings were on successive video days on the afternoon of every end of term, The Railway Children in the morning, of course.).Oh and whoever cast John Thaw as Mr Tom is a champion.
Willie Beech an 8 year old boy severely deprived and abused by his psychotic religious crank mother, is evacuated from his home in London on the eve of the Second World War to the English countryside town of Little Weirwold where he is billeted with the semi-reclusive elderly villager Tom Oakley.
A story of friends and family, of war and survival, of abuse and recovery.
Such a beautiful, beautiful book.
It was recommended to me by the librarian at my middle school who hosted a group called the Bookmunchers where nerdy ones, like myself, could eat their lunches in the library every Wednesday.
Even through the horrors facing people in WWII London we are shown the true love that can happen from makeshift families like that made up of Mr. Tom and Willie.
It's a book that changed my life as a child.
This is a heartbreaking, gentle and terrifying, eye opening tale where characters were surprised by their own ability to change.
This is probably the book I have shed most tears over in my life.
Set in the English country-side during World War Two, it tells the story of a boy who is evacuated from London.
He has to live with grumpy Mister Tom, and in the beginning, you can physically feel the boy's fear.
The hard part of the story begins when the mentally unstable mother in London claims her child back...Not too long ago my son read Good Night Mister Tom for the first time, and at one point I heard him crying aloud in his bedroom.
Now here's a book I had to read for school.
I think I must have been in Year 5 or 6 (at the age of 10) when my teacher gave us this as the class reading book before we started studying World War II.
They strike up an unlikely friendship, and it becomes clear to Mister Tom after a while that Willie is hiding something from him.
Mister Tom gets a feeling that something awful has happened, so he heads out to London to find Willie, and...
A small, nervous boy called Willie Beech enters Tom's life and home as an evacuee from war-torn London.
Willie soon stirs up Tom's set ways.
Over time, Willie flourishes with Tom's sensitive care and Tom finds new purpose in his life.A novel full of adventures in the countryside with friends, the spirit of helping each other in times of trouble, cozy nights next to the fire with books and dialogue with humour and warmth.Magorian writes in a touching and sympathetic way about love, trust, fear and respect.
She shows the difference we can make with love and support.
Willie didn't react realistically to his abuse at all, I felt.
The child was physically, mentally and emotionally abused.
Tom, who wasn't his legal guardian by the way, or a psychologist, insisted all he needed was fresh, country air.
I'm not an expert myself, but I can assume fresh air is not the appropriate care for a child abused so much.
Tom also insisted on bringing a dog into the hospital.
That is really the last he thinks of his mother and sister for that matter.
A death in a book, especially that of a child, should be necessary and unavoidable.
We had to read this in primary school, and it's been one of my most-read, well-loved books ever since.
It doesn't seem enough to say, "Oh, it's a really touching story," because it's so much more than that.
While they first seem utterly unsuited to each other, each turns out to be exactly right for the other.This is a story about how two people can change.
It never fails to make me laugh, and cry, and feel lighter after I put it down.I disagree with other reviewers who've said it's not for children (e.g. the abuse scenes are too shocking).

In 1993 my grandmother sent me this book.
Have a happy read with it and keep up your studies of history and English."Reading this book will always be a bit of a sentimental exercise for me.The story of abused evacuee Willie Beech and gruff old loner Mr. Tom may not be perfectly written and it might border on sappy and cliche at times but it is really a moving story.
Especially the first time it is read.When re-reading it this time I did think that maybe I would not give this book such a high rating if it were not for the connection of it being a book from my grandmother.
such an emotional read wow i'm a mess !!!
One of my final List of Betterment books and a true classic.
I read so many children's books these days and now realise how high the benchmark for real literature can and should be for children.
Deeply touching, uplifting, harrowing and joyous.
Each character is real and watching Willie grow into a real person is an emotional journey.
I'm happy to admit that I cried several times throughout.
Sometimes because I feared for Willie and other times because I was so happy for him.
A story that would stay with the reader/listener for all time
A must read for everyone. If you don't read it then you should watch the movie. This story needs to be told.My sons had to read this at school. As I love to read i read this while both of them read it. I have watched the movie a few times with them also.Rearranging my books I came across this and couldn't resist re reading it. Truly an amazing read.
A children's World War II story about a young boy who is an evacuee from London's East End to a country village. This story warmed my heart and made me well up when this lonely, unloved boy learns to love and trust and to become loved. It is a sweet read about healing and definitely my favorite book this January 2015!
It was easily one of the worst novels I have ever read.It’s the apparently ‘heartwarming’ story of Willie Beech, who is sent from London to the countryside during the second world war.
(hide spoiler)] Some people might say it’s good writing, that I could hear the character’s voice in my head, not just see it on the page, but those people have obviously never heard Zack, with the big, annoying, squeaky voice on him.
When he is told his mother killed herself, he has no idea why someone would want to do that, but then forgets about her a chapter later, so obviously doesn’t care.
This story takes place against the backdrop of a charming and quirky English country town full of colorful characters.Willie Beech is an abused nine-year-old boy.
"Mr. Tom" Oakley is a sixty-year-old man who was widowed 40 years ago and became the town recluse/curmudgeon.
Mr. Tom comes out of his self-imposed "hermithood" to participate in the community again, and Willie discovers his own talents while becoming healthy and robust.The second half of the book takes on serious issues of child abuse/neglect, the horrors and losses of war, and the grieving process.
It reminded me how much I love books for younger folk and need to seek out more of them.
Re-read this as an adult for book club and it was just as delightful as ever. I was surprised how emotional I was and how invested I was in their lives! Great, timeless book.
A childhood favourite that I still find incredibly moving. A beautiful story of an evacuated town boy finding hope and love in the country.
Mr. Tom begins to teach him to read and by the end of the term, William has conquered not just reading but his bed-wetting problem as well.Life for William, Mr. Tom and Sammy the dog has evolved into a comfortable, happy companionship and Mr. Tom has even begun to participate in village activities again, something he hasn't done in forty years after the death of his wife and new baby son, also named William.
When weeks go by and not letter arrives, Mr. Tom and Sammy take the train to London to find out if things are going well for William, arriving just at the Blitz begins.
"Goodnight Mister Tom" is a story about an abused little boy, William Beech, who is sent to the London countryside as an evacuee to be kept safe from the London bombings during WWII.
I don't want to spoil anything by sharing any of the moments that are so perfect in the story, but I really, REALLY want to encourage you to read this sweet children's book if you haven't yet.
"A Little Princess" is my favorite children's novel and one of my favorite stories of all time, and now this one is giving it a run for its money.
The last time I read this book - 2008, I think - I said that I thought the writing was quite flat and unemotive.
It's a children's book set in the Second World War and several bad things happen and, perhaps more importantly for a children's novel, they happen to good people.
This is a lovely book and I would highly recommend it to adults to read to children - 8+, though - and for adults to re-read, and for people that missed it in their own childhoods to discover for the first time.

This is a sad and powerful read. It takes hold of you from the earliest pages and doesn't let go. There is big time child abuse in this book. I was a crying mess for much of it. Not sure I would recommend it to very young or sensitive children. Heck-sensitive people in general. It is top notch writing and the imagery really stays with you. Amazing author. Btw, there is a film version. It does the book justice. Have a box of tissues at the ready. Maybe two.
Listen here: http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/... At Phoenix Theatre, West End this month: http://www.atgtickets.com/shows/goodn...What a horrible mother.Zack! Noooooooooooo!
Omläsning, fast första gången jag läser den på engelska. En tröstebok, absolut, men en som inte väjer för det som gör ont i människolivet.En reflektion jag gjorde under den här läsningen är hur ett stort världshistoriskt skede – i det här fallet andra världskriget – påverkar enskilda människors liv. Ibland i sämre riktning (det utgår man ofta ifrån när det handlar om krig), men ibland också i bättre riktning. Så i det här fallet, där en pojke och en man möts på grund av evakueringen och småningom hos varandra hittar det barn, respektive den förälder, de saknat.
Denn Willie und Tom sind zurecht auf der Liste der BBC gelandet.Dieses Buch erzählt uns eine jener Geschichten, die man nicht mehr so einfach los wird.
Ein schicksalshaftes Treffen, wie sich sehr bald herausstellen wird.Mister Tom schafft es, aus dem kleinen, unscheinbaren Etwas, das da bei ihm auf der Türschwelle abgegeben wurde, einen selbstbewussten Jungen zu machen.
Als Leser weiss man, dass der Tod auch nach Little Weirworld kommen wird, obwohl sich die Charaktere dessen nicht bewusst sind.Dabei soll gesagt sein: dieses Buch trifft ins Herz.
He is sent to Little Weirwold to live with the lonely, grumpy, Thomas Oakley.During Will’s stay with Mister Tom, he learns many important life lessons academically, like to read and write and his talent for art and emotionally, such as learning to love and trust, gaining self -confidence and the importance of friendship.
Will cannot read or write.
Before the presence of Will in Mister Tom’s life, he was bitter, anti-social and gruff, due to the loss of his wife and son forty years ago with only his dog for company.
I love the way it steadily develops throughout the novel.
However after spending a few months in the countryside, he is summoned back home to his mother where he is subjected to abuse, until he is rescued by Mr Tom. At first, you sense uncertainty as to what will become of Will and Tom but then as the story unravels it shows the development in both their characters and just how wonderful and how strong their relationship becomes.The storyline is quite saddening but yet so touching and powerful at capturing emotion in the reader.
Old Tom Oakley is a hero - he starts out the story as an old recluse - a man of the country who has isolated himself from the world since the death of his wife and baby boy decades ago.
But World War II has come and with it the blitz and tens of thousands of London's children are being evacuated to the country and the luckiest thing in the world happens to Old Tom and little William Beech - God brings them together.
I'm not going to spoil the story by giving too much away.
Such a wonderful tale of second chances!Young William is sent to live in the country with an elderly man by the name of Tom. What ensues is a young boy and an aging man finding out how to be loved, how to have happiness, how two strangers can become each others family.I found the ending to abrupt, the writing not particularly strong, and the antagonist elements are seldom instigators.
What makes this story work so well though is relationship.
The author manages to make you feel the growing relationship between Tom and William.
