https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40955.They_Call_Me_Coach
Often as a player, I'd tell myself, "I may play someone better than I am, but I'll never run against one who is going to be in better condition" And I never played against a man in my life I felt was in better shape, and Lambert often cited me as an example of top conditioning."Another key aspect of Wooden's philosophy was that he believed the little things, the details, really mattered.
These little details would "establish a spirit of togetherness and consideration that help unite the team into a solid unit."Wooden believed in focus, and "playing your game": “In game play it was always my philosophy that patience would win out.
John Wooden is the winningest coach in NCAA history, and a legend in the world of basketball. I spotted his autobiography on a friend's bookshelf and asked to borrow it. She also insisted that I take  The Zookeeper's Wife . Suffice it to say that I thought this book was the better of the two.There were three big things that I was left with at the end of the book:One of the things that really struck me about this book was the way in which he described his former players. He speaks of them with ge
. Suffice it to say that I thought this book was the better of the two.There were three big things that I was left with at the end of the book:One of the things that really struck me about this book was the way in which he described his former players.
Wooden wasn't shy about using the word "love" in regard to his players.Another thing that stuck out to me was his devotion to his wife.
That's a rare love.The last thing about Wooden that really made an impression on me was his love for God. He talks about his beliefs with not only conviction and passion, but with much love and affection for his Lord as well.
This book taught me sooooo much. One main theme is that hard work really pays off in the long run. Another theme is that teamwork is key and that you have to keep your eye on the prize (in this case the NCAA championship)
In this book John explains why he wanted to create a special bond with his players and how he saw them as his sons.
John also explains how he taught the game of basketball and how his ideas were the first of its kind.
I thought that this book was a great piece of writing that inspires people to work hard no matter what.
The strengths of this book are that John writes what he is thinking not someone else trying to explain what he is thinking.
I would recommend this book to a classmate if the like basketball and if they want to be inspired.
The book covers his playing years and (mostly) the coaching career, especially with the UCLA Bruins.
The strict yet kind life philosophy of John Wooden is impressed in almost every line, and served him well in completing thirty years on the bench, creating a ten-championships/four undefeated seasons legacy at UCLA, and coaching Lewis Alcindor (Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) and Bill Walton.
The book also describes his Pyramid of Success, Wooden's philosophical take on how to be successful.
Overall, a nice book by a good man.
Interestingly, this book was recommended via a parenting podcast. Not that it had a ton of parenting advice, but it's a very interesting book to read about basketball and how this talented and smart coach developed his boys into fine men and basketball players. He basically didn't tolerate any crap. We could use more like him nowadays!!
There is only one word to describe this book - inspirational.
They Call Me Coach is the story of John Wooden, the best NCAA Basketball coach of all time, winning 10 national championship with UCLA, including 7 in a row.
The book tells most of his life, from his first coaching job to his last national championship.
It also emphasizes John Wooden's principles of hard work and practice over winning, and not only focusing on getting to the top but staying at the top.
Overall this book is amazing and really inspirational for any upcoming athlete or coach and I'd recommend it to anyone.
John Wooden is recognized as one of the greatest basketball coaches in the history of the game. He won an amazing 10 NCAA National Championships. A truly great leader.
He won 10 NCAA Championships at UCLA in the 1960-70's, but his emphasis on character development and teaching life lessons contributed to his overall influence on the world as much as anything.This book is a must read for all basketball coaches who are humble enough to want to learn from others--in this case, maybe the best who ever did it!
It talks about how he handled problems, how he viewed players, his philosophy as a coach, how different teams did throughout his career [obviously from his perspective], etc.Since I'm basically in the preseason with my Varsity team, I found myself taking notes and messaging my guys about various topics in order to try and get us to the next level.
Coach Wooden was kind of a stick in the mud, but he is maybe the most impartial sports-book participant/author I've ever read. His tone is clinical, not nostalgic or self-promotional, and that's a credit to his objectives - he's not trying to romanticise those great UCLA teams. He wants to explain how his coaching philosophies got him to where he finished. UCLA basketball is almost an afterthought.
Lots to learn from the man in this book. Wisdom and experience pour from the pages as well as the memory and attention to detail that so many story tellers from older generations seem to have. Reading it is like talking with an elderly gentleman. Personally I hope when I'm that experienced I can recall with a story tellers eye for detail many memories like Wooden has in this book. He was definitely a man among men.
It was great to hear coach Wooden's reflections on his early life and coaching career. A lot of it was repetitive towards the end. I cared about his nuggets of wisdom more than his personal opinions about his teams, but ended up getting more of the latter. Still very interesting, I'd recommend it to any coach or teacher who seeks to be inspired to lead in a consistent, ethical way.
I really wanted to like this book more. Maybe college basketball fans would like it more than I did. I enjoyed the first part of the book, but toward the end I lost interest. Disappointing, as I expected a better read.
Excellent look into the mind of one, if not the greatest coach in basketball. His methods not only apply on the court but in life. Naturally it's the "Pyramid of Success" that is the lead.
Book is a slow read, but interesting for basketball enthusiasts. A good leadership manual, if you want an explanation of John Wooden’s pyramid.
He spent every practice working on the little things that would make a team great.
Coach Wooden says and I quote, "The way players learn is from repetition.
Coach Wooden always talked good about all of his players and coaches.
Although that Erickson was a "pill" in practice, coach Wooden would always find the good things in people and focus talking about the good things.
Coach would always find the good in people, but people only could find good things to talk about coach Wooden.
Every person that has ever played for him always gave good words about coach Wooden.
Before he came to UCLA, they had a terrible basketball program, but Wooden's coaching turned them into a national powerhouse.
He shares his "Pyramid of Success" that works for basketball teams, but also for life.
Wooden uses the book to teach us the "Pyramid of Success." Coach Wooden doesn't define success as winning or being famous.
A person must have enthusiasm, industriousness, alertness, intentness, and skill to start reaching to the true meaning of success.
It takes hard work and a big heart to develop your skills in basketball and life.
Decent book by a decent man - somewhat dated, and repetitious, but interesting looks at his championship teams and philosophy on coaching success make it a worthwhile read.
He always repeats through the pages for a successful player the tree more important points are condition, skills and team spirit.
Besides, he defines success as “peace of mind which is a direct result of self-satisfaction in knowing you did your best to become the best that you are capable of becoming”.Wooden offers us a view of his life after retirement, when he teaches on campus, and many opinions about basketball in those years.
Jacob MeahanMs. CampanellaEnglish 2, Period 1February 23, 2016They Call Me Coach by John Wooden with Jack Tobin The Genre of my book is basketball, and the life of a basketball player/ coach. The reason I chose this book is because I love all things basketball and I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who has a passion for the sport. So the book is briefly about John Wooden and how he ended up becoming one of the best or the best college basketball coaches to ever step on the hardwood
Jacob MeahanMs. CampanellaEnglish 2, Period 1February 23, 2016They Call Me Coach by John Wooden with Jack Tobin	The Genre of my book is basketball, and the life of a basketball player/ coach.
So the book is briefly about John Wooden and how he ended up becoming one of the best or the best college basketball coaches to ever step on the hardwood.
man because throughout the entirety of the book John talks about all the teams he has to face which is man.
Yet if you like basketball you will love this book.
This one was written in 1972, while he was toward the end of his decades-long career at UCLA and during his run of coaching 10 NCAA champs in 11 years.It's a fairly quick read, covering a lot of ground with language that feels a little bit dated at times.
Quite a departure from the 365 day recruiting schedule of today's major college coach and assistants.
Now 40 years after it was written, it is best read as a little window into the life of a coach who stayed the same man throughout his coaching career.
After reading They Call Me Coach, I realized what an inspiring, good man John Wooden was.
Despite that I enjoyed reading this because of the insightful philosophy of John Wooden.The book starts from Wooden’s days as a high school basketball player all the way to his days after coaching at UCLA.
In his book, Wooden explains his philosophy not only about basketball, but also of life.
John Wooden is the true definition of a role model.Overall this book was very insightful and entertaining.
If you are an athlete, coach, or fan of sports you should definitely read this book.
We have gotten so accustomed to the mega-million dollar world of college sports that it's hard to imagine a different time.
In fact, after reflecting on Wooden's career, it's hard not to see that it was a better era.
Could you imagine one of today's big-time college football or basketball coaches saying the following..."The coach who is committed to the Christlike life will be helping youngsters under his supervision to develop wholesome disciplines of body, mind, and spirit that will build character worthy of his Master's calling."Amen Coach Wooden.
While he was most famous for his success as a coach at UCLA, his perspectives and teachings on discipline, teamwork, humility, and life grew beyond his coaching career.
This book is an autobiography of Coach Wooden's life.
His life is an interesting story.
I love reading stories about successful people and the path they took to accomplishment.
Coach Wooden's story is no different in many ways.What makes this book interesting and fun is the way he threads his perspectives, philosophies and valued into his story.
Coach Wooden was a successful coach, a great teacher, and an even better man than many realize.
Good autobiography of a man really ahead of his time as a basketball coach, but what I enjoyed most was reading about him as a person - I wish there were more of that in the book.
But who he was as a person, he was as a coach and vice-versa.
I have a soft spot in my heart for teachers, which is truly what he was.
One of the great ones - really changed lives, not just made championship basketball teams.
What he learned from his two favorite teachers, Abraham Lincoln & Mother Theresa: A life not lived for others is not a life.
John Wooden led the UCLA basketball team to unsurpassed victories and records.
In this classic bestselling autobiography--updated with a new foreword by Hall-of-Famer Bill Walton--the college basketball legend reflects on his record-breaking career, his life behind the scenes, and how his top players went on to shape and change the NBA.
From the everyday basics to important life lessons ("It's not how tall you are, but how tall you play"), Wooden shares his worldly wisdom on and off the court to offer a personal history of an unforgettable time in college basketball, answering the most-asked questions about his life, his career, and the players who made his teams unbeatable.
A quick read.
Wooden won 10 national championships in 12 years while coaching UCLA's basketball team.
The man is simply an American Icon.
When Wooden speaks, a smart man listens.They Call Me Coach is a brisk tour through Wooden's formative years and the long list of successes he enjoyed as a basketball coach.
More details about team dynamics, tough games, and his many great players would have been nice, but, the narrative is pleasing to read.
The strength of Wooden's character and his devotion to his ethics jump out from every page of the book.
I was a big fan of Wooden's TED Video (http://bit.ly/1hW7Lhv) and must have seen 30-40 times in the last few years.
The book is great, his principles and concepts are interesting, but this book is written for someone who follows American college basket ball and is aware of basketball as a game.
My exposure to basketball is very limited (I didn't even know who Abdul Kareem Jabbar is!) and have no idea about American College basketball.
My verdict - Do read this book, but you will enjoy it more if you know the American college basketball game.

Bio with a few good quotes at the top of each chapter.
Didn't understand the pyramid thing.Success is other peace of mind which is a direct result of the self psatisfaction in k owing you did your best to become the best that you are capable of becomingThings turn out best for those who make the best of the way that things turn out Be more concerned with your character than with your reputation.
Your character is who you really are your reputation is who others think that you areDo not let what you cannot do interfere with what you can doLearn as if you will live forever.
Live as if you will die tomorrow.
