https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337058.Jacob_Have_I_Loved
This book embarrassed me a little.
I'm no stranger to self pity and talking myself into not doing things.It is also embarrassing because it is cloying and whiney.Louise (nicknamed Wheeze) slumps in the shadowed footsteps of her twin sister, Caroline.
Her best (only) friend (if anyone didn't see him falling for Caroline coming dead end roads off, they weren't paying attention to the whole premise of Caroline > Louise), Call, doesn't seem to really like her either.
(The grandmother is the biggest beyotch in the book.) The methodist stuff was heaped on way too much for my tastes (not that it was methodist.
So it's depressing and weird and...
I was also captivated by the beautiful imagery and the setting along the Chesapeake Bay that was, to me, strange and fascinating.Recently I returned to the book, reading it for the first time as an adult.
As a teen reader, I failed to see the growth and resolution that come into Sarah Louise's life when she learns to set aside her perceptions and accept what is the truth.
As the story begins, an adult Sarah Louise acknowledges, "Life begins to turn upside down at thirteen.
But I'm glad I had the experience of reading this book both as a teenager and as an adult.
This book should be read without the presentiment that the heroine is going to be heroic, selfless, lovely, or even pleasant.To judge the book based on that is to completely miss the point of this novel.No, Sara Louise isn't a pleasant heroine.
Where is she being Sara Louise, the heroine we wish to see redeemed on a cold night, wondering as she wanders, and where is she Wheeze, so eaten up with hatred of her own sister and mother and everyone else that she will destroy her lotion and scream that she doesn't want to go to the boarding school she'd been saving and saving for just because she wants to be alone when she really doesn't?
I remember loving this book as a kid, so I picked it up the other day.
I'm not exactly sure why I liked it so much, because this time around I didn't find it nearly entertaining.
Also I didn't feel sorry for Louise this time around; most everything Caroline got that Louise didn't was due to Louise's inability to speak up, or because her attempts to get something for herself completely backfired due to her passive-aggressive ways of doing so.Also, I must say, I got a little wigged out when she hugged the Captain and that incident began her sexual awakening.
Maybe that's why I used to like this book; back in seventh grade I was in Catholic school.
I don't really know what to make of this book.
I guess after going through this, I don't really know what the point was and what it's trying to share with us.
I did love that it takes place on an island off the Baltimore Harbor.
They talk about the Baltimore Sun and other things that I know.
I simply don't know what to take away from this book really.
I went ahead and gave this an extra star because it's written by Katherine, otherwise I would have given it 2 stars.
I guess it is a strange book.
Now, let's talk about the book.This story centers around a selfish, silly girl named Sarah who HATES her grandmother, her sister, and God. Actually, it starts out as an uncomfortable dislike, but quickly morphs into a hairy beast of evil.1.
She rejected God because He's above her human weakness, and perfect, just like she thinks her sister is.4.
xPWhy does she get mad at her sister for "stealing" a man she doesn't even like?Her sister also supposedly steals her parents, but Sarah finds out she doesn't like her parents a great deal, anyway.At the end, when she delivers those twins, she feels so heroic for making sure the healthier baby (just like she was) isn't neglected while she is taking care of the smaller babe (like her sister was).
I absolutely hated this book. It doesn't even give you the satisfaction of seeing Miss Perfect Goldilocks get hers in the end (or at least, seeing her admit what a hell she made for her sister).I really don't understand why this received the Newberry. I read it because I felt I had missed something but now I wished I hadn't. Books tend to become part of your soul and this one gave (and continues to give) me the creeps! The most depressing story I've ever read in my life.
From the author of the wonderfully imaginative Bridge to Terabithia, Jacob I Have Loved, targeted at older readers, is a really profound and impressive story about the futility of sibling rivalry and the importance of family unity.
I loved reading this book with my daughter and seeing it both through her eyes and mine, from the parent and the child's point of view.
Once she learned to stop sacrificing what many times wasn't even asked of her and to push for her own dreams, she could be happy.The story reminded me a lot of Chinese culture, how they train their children to think highly of themselves and put themselves out there because there isn't anyone else out there to love them as much as themselves.
Caroline reminded me of the Chinese values, speaking up for herself, and Sara Louise of American values, sacrificing ourself for others.
I must have read this girlhood favorite a dozen times, the tears dropping onto the pages regardless of how familiar the words and storyline had become.
Something about Sara Louise's intense sibling rivalry and inability to recognize her parents' love for her spoke to me, a second child who frequently felt overshadowed by my older brother.
Her earnest desire for God's love amidst fear of His disapproval also reflected my search to feel God's love for me in all my messy imperfection.20+ years have passed since my last reading.
Her blindness to the love of her parents struck me more strongly, along with her slowness in recognizing her ability to change her situation.
Perhaps that was the thing that made me hate her most.Sometimes I would rage at God, at his monstrous almighty injustice.My spiritual health was about on a par with a person who’s been dead three days, but I wasn’t about to admit it.Real intrigue was far more delicious than the pretend kind.It didn’t seem right to me that the Captain should be robbed of the chance to tell his own tragedy.
He should have at least had his story.Is the world so short on trouble that you two crave to make more?A man with strong clean hands would never look at me in love.
I highly recommend this book to teen girls and their parents.
The central girl is foiled at every turn in her life by lack of money, lack of parental support, lack of beauty...
When she connects with her grandmother, listens to her and learns to let go of all these restrictions, to let go of any resentment, frustration or bitterness and to get out and do what she needs to do to live her own life, she does!
I do not intend to make parents think they need to learn a lesson about parenting from the book, rather, it would just be a lovely story to be able to talk about with your daughter.
Jacob Have I Loved accomplishes subtly what so many other YA books shove down the reader's throat -- sibling rivalry, the uncertainty of first love, the frustration and excitement of figuring out who you are & where you might want to go in life -- all of this and more are presented with just enough drama to make them interesting, but never so much that you feel you're reading anything less than a Newbery winner.The book also reminded me of one of my favorite books -- Madeleine L'Engel's A Ring of Endless Light, for a few shared themes, most notably sibling rivalry, the role of religion, and first love, not to mention a very similar setting.
A book of incomparable unfairness. I am not saying every story needs to be wrapped up in clean white bows, I am saying that my 13 year old self was not prepared for the grossly overstated cruelty of life presented in this book. I hate it.
Listened to this on audiobook, which probably made it worse because you couldn't accelerate through the miserableness of the lead character.
There's some decent storytelling in here but it really comes across as a score-settling diatribe written by a self pitying girl who hated her twin's guts.That topic could be covered winningly with real humor, perspective or at least some dramatic progression but hardly anything significant happens to the central conflict in the book.
Instead, it all kinda peters out in a montage-y end sequence that is hardly rewarding given that we've been dragged through a detailed litany of offenses both real and imagined.
Although I initially felt impatient with Wheeze’s persistent complaints, I forced myself to re-examine the “Bobbsey Twins” mythology which in my childhood had shaped my notions of life as a twin and I found deep within myself some empathy and compassion for Sara Louise.
While life seems (figuratively) to drop gifts into the lap of Caroline — financial support, a top-notch music education, and fame as a singer — Wheeze struggles to find her way in the world.The story is complicated by the vagaries of Wheeze’s emotional life.
The story takes place during the early 1940s on the small, fictional island of Rass in the Chesapeake Bay. Life on the island revolves around fundamentalist religion, seasonal fishing for crabs and oysters, and the often fulfilling lives of those who "follow the water." While the men lead rugged, dangerous lives, Paterson chooses to focus on the women of the island.Jacob Have I Loved revolves around the sibling rivalry between Sara Louise ("Wheeze") and Caroline Bradshaw.
The combination of envy, love, and hatred that twists Sara Louise's relationship with Caroline realistically reflects the insecurity and competitiveness experienced by most children.
Over time, Louise become more and more embittered as she is passed over and ignored repeatedly, in favour of Caroline.I think Louise reserves some of her deepest resentment for her parents, as they allow Caroline to receive every bounty the islanders can bestow, while consciously ignoring her needs, and not insisting that good fortune should be shared between both twins.
It gives her the kind of inner peace that she could not obtain in the feminine environment of the domestic sphere.Throughout the book, kind fortune continues to visit Caroline, while Louise is left behind, in danger of becoming a bitter, twisted adult.
Who is Sara Louise's biggest enemy?1) Caroline, her twin sister.
Sara Louise is unhappy because Caroline is so happy, so talented, so loved.
The reason Sara Louise is unhappy is because Caroline was loved more than her, from birth.2) Her parents and grandmother.
I am trying to decide what is most tragic about the book - is it the fact that those around Sara Louise don't adequately show her their love for her?
Sara Louise is given a painful childhood - in which she perceives that she is worth less to her parents than her sister.
I did like the tormented adolescent protagonist, and I was anxious to know how things would work out for her.That said, this one seems a little weak for a Newbery winner.
After lingering over Sara Louise's adolescence, the last two chapters rushing through a big chunk of her adult life seem out of place, and nothing in them flows very naturally from the rest of the book.
This book makes a great case for the importance of guided reading, as well as getting the age group right on the audience.
While Sara Louise is thirteen, the themes are not really appropriate or understandable for younger kids.
I was given this book as a gift (I forget at what age- maybe 11?) and hated it when I read it because I couldn't understand it.
It also contains some interesting things bits on religion, which might limit the potential reading groups, but would be really great to talk about with the right group of people.June, 2010I think that the more times I read this book the more I love it.

I didn't write a full review, but this is someone else's which is excellent & sums up my thoughts:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I read this book a long time ago, so I can't remember all the deets ...
Honestly, why do people like this book??Here's some more stuff I remember:-Creepy hand fascination.Further: creepy young girl fascinated with the hands of a creepy old guy who could be her grandfather.
You do realize the things kids read actually affect them, right?
It sucks that Her Royal Oblivious didn't notice that her parents love her - you can tell even in the book from Ignorant POV #1 that they love her - but you know what?
I have to say I wasn’t too sure about this book. I haven’t read any other Katherine Paterson although I did see the movie, Bridge to Terabithia. The summary just didn’t really grab me. However it wasn’t long into the book before I didn’t want to put it down. I felt pure anger towards Caroline and the parents for their treatment of Louise. I was enraged quite a few times during the book.I liked the writing style and the story and look forward to reading more Katherine Paterson. I can see why it won the Newbery Award in 1981.
What a gorgeous book. So tender and lovely
In keeping with Annalynn’s post about classics, I wanted to post about one of my favorite YA classics.It isn’t often that you read a book as a teen and love it then come back to it as an adult and love it even more.
Growing up on the small island of Rass in Chesapeake Bay, Caroline seems to do nothing but take from Louise: their parents’ love, Louise’s chances for an education, her dreams for the future.
To the degree that the small island of Rass becomes a character, forcing its inhabitants to make decisions and come to terms with themselves.
All her life, Sara Louise has been overshadowed by her prettier, talented twin sister Caroline who calls her the distasteful nickname “Wheeze”.
Caroline’s singing voice allows for a life filled with opportunities, but what can Louise do other than help with crabbing and oyster fishing?
When a mysterious sea captain comes to the island, Sara Louise hopes that he will have some answer to filling the lonely, envious void that has occupied her soul for so long.
Little does Louise know that only she holds the key to her own happiness.
Minus one star for how whiny the main character is.
I get it, Caroline is better than you in all ways.
I usually like the underdog but she was so bratty no wonder no one on the island cared.
Plus one star for addressing hormones and puberty in teen girls.
Minus that star for her sexual feelings to come from a seventy year old man's fingernails.
Minus one star for the relationship between the sisters never being resolved.
Plus one star for the depictions of small town life and the life of the watermen.
Plus one star for the FDR jokes.
You know those books that you read because you just can't stop... even though you can't figure out whether you even like it or not.Yeah. This was that book.Again, I still can't figure if I really liked it or not (that's one reason I rated it 3 Stars: right in the middle). The characters are all aggravating (except for a choice few). The story is odd and seemingly random. And the ending was extremely unsatisfactory.Doesn't sound very good, does it?Then why the heck was it so gripping? That's my question.
The story, for me, is not compelling enough to overcome Sara Louise's constant hate for her sister, feelings of isolation, awkward sexual yearnings towards a man old enough to be her grandfather.
She had been doing men's work for years, bucking the conventions of the island, but she lets a pipe-smoking academic derail her with two sentences of discouragement?The book comes full circle at the end but as a reader I don't think Katherine Patterson earns the ending.
I'm not sure how well she knows her characters or what her intention with this book is.
Sara Louise never resolves anything with her twin sister.
