https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28025.The_Myth_of_the_Eternal_Return_or_Cosmos_and_History
It should be distinguished from the philosophical concept of eternal return.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه آگوست سال 1987 میلادیعنوان: اس‍طوره‌ ب‍ازگ‍ش‍ت‌ ج‍اودان‍ه‌ - مقدمه، بر فلسفه ی تاریخ؛ نویسنده: میرجا الیاده؛ مترجم: بهمن سرکاراتی؛ تبریز؛ نیما، 1365؛ در 245 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، قطره، 1378؛ در 208 ص؛ چاپ دیگر : تهران، طهوری؛ 1384؛ در 205 ص؛ شابک: 9646414600؛ 9789646414605؛ موضوع: اسطوره - دین - جنبه های مذهبی تاریخ و علوم اجتماعی - کیهان شناسی - سده 20 مپژوهشی ست، درباره ی برخی از، جنبه های هستی شناسی کهن، و یا به عبارت ژرفتتر، درباره ی مفاهیم هستی و واقعیت.
آنچنانکه مفاهیم مذکور را میتوان: از طرز رفتار انسان، در جوامع کهن، دریافت کرد.
(در روايات اسلامى، كعبه اولين نقطه از زمين است كه از زير آب هاى نخستين بيرون آمد، و آدم پس از خلقت آن جا هبوط كرد.)هر بنايى طى مراسمى آيينى (تقليد از عمل خلقت) و با قربانى (تقليد از قربانى نخستينى كه جهان از پيكر او ساخته شد) بايد ابتدا به مركز جهان تبديل شود تا بتواند از واقعيت بهره مند گردد، و بعد اقدام به ساختن آن مجاز است.يادداشت من: با توجه به اين دو فقره مى شود ديد كه فقط زمان نيست كه از باور اديان باستانى، حالتى تكرار شدنى دارد و با انجام آيين هايى، با زمان ازلى مقدس اتحاد برقرار مى كند.بلكه مكان هم خاصيت اتحاد با مكان مركزى را دارد، و با انجام آيين هايى با مكان مركزى مقدس متحد مى شود.نكته ديگر: در مورد زمان، ازليت است كه به آن واقعيت و اعتبار مى بخشد.
هدف از نگارش این کتاب پژوهشی است درباره برخی از جنبه های هستی شناسی کهن و یا به عبارت دقیق تر درباره مفاهیم هستی و واقعیت. آنچنان که مفاهیم مذکور را می توان از طرز رفتار انسان در جوامع کهن استنباط کرد. جوامع کهن یا سنتی هم شامل جهانی است که معمولا از آن با صفت بدوی یاد می شود و هم فرهنگ و تمدن های باستانی آسیا، اروپا و آمریکا را در برمی گیرد.
Mircea Eliade tarih ve dinler hakkındaki eserlerine başlayacaklara ilk olarak Ebedi Dönüş Miti'ni okumalarını önermiş. Kitap tarih felsefesine giriş niteliğinde. Döngüsel zaman kavramı büyük dinler, inanış biçimleri, ayinler, adetler vb. olgulardan örnekler verilerek açıklanmış. Deneme tarzında yazılan kitabın dili oldukça akıcı ve sade. Konudan bihaber olan birisini bile rahatlıkla içine çekebilir. Çeviri de çok güzel. Sırada ne var derseniz, Eliade'nin tüm kitapları. ^.^
to put into a modern context -- a christian who took a sunday off, in replication of god taking the seventh day off, would be thrust into sacred time...eliade enters into a kind of philosophy of history in which he points out that 'archaic' man existed ahistorically: history, as we understand it, was non-existent; rather a series of events in the present that imitated earlier events/archetypes.
'modern' man struggles to find a means to come to terms with the "suffering and annihilation of so many people for the simple reason that their geographical situation sets them in the pathway of history." modern religion has attempted to give meaning to suffering and historical randomness, as have many thinkers including Marx and, most notably, Hegel with his theory of the "historical moment" and "Universal Spirit".
To Transcend Profane TimeIt is always a joy to read a great man's greatest book- and the author himself considered this to be the most significant of all his works.
The central idea here is that for traditional man (man before our brief and temporary modern epoch) no act or object was real if it did not repeat or imitate an archetype.
The goal was to achieve connection through the divine center with the archetype and therefore become one with the god or hero, indeed to abolish profane time itself and be transported into the mythical moment when the original model took place.
لطالما أردت أن أعرف أكثر عن العود الأبدي الذي طرحه كونديرا في رائعته "كائن لا تحتمل خفته"، لم أكن أتوقع أن أجد نفسي أمام كتاب كهذا، مليء بالاساطير المثيرة للاهتمام، وأمام كاتب يكتب بأسلوب مترابط ومفهوم، وأمام مترجم جيد يسهل فهم الكتاب علي.
The great thing about this book is that it provides a new lens to interpret our own lives while making 'ancient' cultural practices legible, and occasionally more familiar than the relations which we nominally live under.
However, making my living in computers, and enjoying the fruit of communications technology and the current bounty of modern agricultural and manufacturing practices, it isn't in a state of terror or decline that I compare my life with my agriculturally-bound ancestors.This volume, given its age, did not have accessible to it a key theory about how individuals in our current period, and an ongoing basis, cope with history culturally.
سيطرت على البشرية اكذوبة قديمة اخذت تتضخم : ان طل شيء يتكرر ولذا يعيش كثير من الناس حيواتهم كما يمليه عليهم المجتمع او الاخرين لاعتقادهم انهم ينفذون المقدر لهموحتى قضية الحياة الاولى للبشر في فردوس قبل الخطيئة والطقوس التي كل ماتقوم به هو تدمير الحياة بشكلها الحالي لتولد من جديد على شاكلة الفردوس الاولىكنت اعتقد ان كراهية الحياة المتجذرة في الاصولية اسلامية فقط لكن يمكن وصفها انها ابراهيمية بالعموم ولاعجب ان ينشد المتطرفيين نهاية العالم لان في نظرهم هم الناجون والعائدون لحياة كاملة مثاليةلفت نظري ان المسيحية حوت لمحة الخلاص بقنل الخطايا والبدء من جديد فقضية الخلاص انهت خطاياهم المطلوب فيها ان يتبعوا الاقدمينوربما هذا احدى مبررات انعتاق متديني الحضارات الاوروبية والغربيةالكتاب رائع .
I found the framework idea of the Archaic thoroughly interesting, though the most valuable section of the book is in the conclusion, where Eliade discusses the consequences for societies that have abandoned the Archaic worldview.
"Among countless stones, one stone becomes sacred - and hence instantly becomes saturated with being . . . because it commemorates a mythical act . . ." --Eliade, p. 4
În limba română - https://bombitaluivladmusatescu.blogs...In English - https://bombitaluivladmusatescuenglis...
Many years ago i was sitting in front of an Archetype Personality, i mean a Sufi mystic or a Babaji.
I was tricked into believing that Baba ji possess some extrasensory, divine, incorruptible knowledge.
That air of mystery and Godliness around baba ji was just an illusion of my mind nothing more.
After reading this mythology book i realized why i was fooled by the Archetype of a spiritual mentor.
Or why humans always believed in myths against reality.
Any other act was meaningless of unnecessary.Perhaps Baba ji was right in recommending reading mythology for good fiction :)
أساسي للمهتمين بالاسطورة و التاريخ و الدين، و الأهم انه مركّز و مختصر بدون مقدمات ما الها معنى و حكي بلا طعمة :).. الزمن الدائري التكراري و الزمن المستقيم و سيطرتهما على العقلية البشرية في محاولتها لايجاد المعنى و الصراع مع التاريخ.. كتاب ممتع
Eliade's thesis is easy enough to sum up -- events in an "archaic person's" life only acquired meaning inasmuch as they emulate an archetypal example performed in mythical time by gods, heroes, whatever.
set their example in a mythical time while God actively intervenes in the present day.
Thus, for the former, the profane world can only ever be valorized by that emulation of the distant past -- for a monotheist, however, a sense of theophany can be present in everyday life -- so, there's no fear of "history" separating you from the divine.
Instead, "the life of archaic man (a life reduced to the repetition of archetypal acts, that is, to categories and not to events, to the unceasing rehearsal of the same primordial myths, although it takes place in time, does not bear the burden of time, does not record time's irreversibility; in other words, completely ignores what is especially characteristic and decisive in a consciousness of time." The members of primitive culture, therefore, having no sense of history, live "in a continual present" (86).
Primitive man found the solution to his dilemma by creating religious rites that constantly return man to his origins thus avoiding the perils of history or linear time.Modern religion (i.e. Christianity) by having Christ exist in history and by promising an imminent, historical end to the world thus fails to deliver to man the comfort of the eternal return to the sources offered by primitive religion.
Thus modern man is condemned to live in fear or anxiety.Eliade's theory if nothing else explains the diminishing attendance at many traditional Christian churches and the steadily growing obsession with professional sports which offer all the comforts of primitive religion.
Initially sub-titled "The Philosophy of History," this staggering short read is a probe into humanities' use of time to unconsciously obliterate history, forcing us to mythologize regeneration (the "new' year) in opposition to careful structures for storing historical ideals, models and timelines.
Instead, humans store myth and archetypes readily while remain puzzled by facts, perceptions and movements of ideas across centuries.
Eliade claims actual figures are subsumed in archetypes, readily available to the living to employ as rhetorical answers to present conditions or problems.
Eliade offers real-time examples as well to support his hypothesis.
Why do humans desire the myth?
Because it supports the archetype more readily.
Eliade notes that a basic human need is to solve history, to escape from its inevitable irretrivability … and there you have Francis, with his triumphant "End of History" trying his bestest to help us feel like we are finally through with history, that humanity has (had, in the early 90s, anyway) finally reached the final plateau of the golden age, much like Virgil, trying to reassure the Romans that their wonderful empire would never end, after Emperor Augustus seemingly blows all prior statutes of limitations on the possible sell by date of the Empire, and that same moment, of course, is where Edward Gibbon started his master work, “The Decline and Fall of the ….” Doh!
In a nutshell, this book concerns the translation of Myth as a way of mans coping with the cruel wor
The primary distinction drawn by the author is between our modern sense of homogeneous (even isotropic, according to some physicists) time proceeding historically through cause and effect and the more common sense, historically and culturally speaking, that time is patterned and repetitive.This book gave me some small insight into the causal assumptions behind the I Ching and the Bible.
It did not much discuss the vagaries of our own lived times, but it certainly spoke to the fact that we don't really experience time as homogeneous.

I had high hopes for this book before reading it, expecting to meet a more thorough examination of the idea of the 'eternal return' both in antiquity and going into modern times (with Nietzsche, the 're-enchantment' of the world etc.). Although many references were provided to numerous interesting religious ideas I lacked a more structured and comprehensible overview. Eliade seemed to get a bit lost in the many examples and digressions, leaving the main-point of his book a bit blurry. Hence the 3 stars.
Интелектуален кеф е срещата с Мирча Елиаде. С ерудицията и мащаба на мисленето си, чрез елегантните си и леки за четене разсъждения румънският професор успява да издигне ума ти (поне за кратко) над профанното. А центърът на изследването – бунтът на архаичния човек срещу властта на времето и непримиримостта му пред хода на историята, отказът му да се ситуира в настоящето, възраждайки миналото чрез създаването на архетипи, неуморните опити да бъде победена необратимостта на събитията – е особено романтична и изпълнена с философия тема, по която си струва човек да се вглъби поне малко.
Написана на език, достатъчно достъпен дори и за човек, нямащ толкова познания в областите, с които книгата се занимава. Увлекателна, засягаща темите и въпросите обхватно и доста изчерпателно. Като единствен недостатък бих отбелязала примерите- някои от тях, може би на моменти твърде пространни или представени така, че трудно биват разбрани без историческо познаване на това, което "разказват". Но като цяло и те в по- голямата си част са така добре приведени и "разказани", че се явяват полезна илюстрация, а не затруднение в контекста на цялото.
This was one of those used book shop discoveries. I found it very interesting and vindicating in a way to confirm my thoughts and perceptions about cycles, myths, rituals and history. There were A LOT of big words that required frequent use of a dictionary. It made for deep, interesting reading on those bus commutes for my life in the repetitive mundane.
One of many of Eliade's books placing religious experience at the heart of religious activity. In this case, he is interested in showing how the experience of the divine constitutes the human world.
This book demands a slow, methodical reading. One should have a working knowledge of ancient mythology as well as contemporary mythology (aka, religion). Definitely worth reading.
Very interesting information, the structure of the book made it more interesting. I like the vocab used.
Popadla mě nostalgie po Fakultě Hledání Smyslu, tak jsem si pořídil tuhle klasiku. Neuvěříte tomu, ale v hlavě mi ji při čtení recitoval hlas Zdeňka Pince! :)
