https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137599.French_Provincial_Cooking
Cooking or baking occurred throughout these times, as did conversation on many topics, but the cookbook in my lap always had a lot of my attention.
"How'd you make that?" "Oh, I took the chicken and did this with it with these herbs and oils and cooking techniqued it for however long." My father and grandmother were very fond of this kind of recipe exchange and for a long time I had sketches like this on the back of envelopes or on notebook pages or whatever else came to hand - these lay around in various places until I wanted them.
Elizabeth David is the british equivalent of Julia Childs.
They were both exploring French cuisine while living as expats in France during the 1950's (David also lived in Italy, and Greece).
She gathered traditional french provincial (think simple) recipes back to England.
This book, published in 1960, had the same revolutionary effect on english cooking that Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking had on american.It is a fun read and the recipes are quite good.
The recipes are not what we're used to in modern terms though.
I've found this to be true in Italy too, so it may just be a cultural difference.
As for Elizabeth David herself, she was always generous, giving me cans of olive oil, pots, pans and recipes and encouraging my love of good food.
For this especially I will be forever grateful to the writer.Added References:Below is a letter from Elizabeth David to George Lassalle, my father and also prize winning cookery writer on fish and Middle Eastern food.
The letter, dated May 16th (and I know that the year is 1953), comes from a while later, when my father - then back in England and encouraging Elizabeth to continue writing cookery books - was asked to go to Egypt to spy on the new President Nasser for British Intelligence.
Lengthy coverage of all things edible in Europe by the definitive British food journalist Elizabeth David. Read more at http://www.welike2cook.com/2012/04/tunny-fish-polpettone.html.
love her aristocratic style, curt, take no prisoners. she assumes you know the basics and would not deign to describe how to chop an onion. has no use for 'chefs' it is after all just cookery. the inclusion of excerpts of other writers, some of them very old, is delightful. and yes, the recipes are great.
hm, her writing about food and experience is amazing, her insights about packing the piehole--oh what joy! but unfortunately this person is, ahem, of her times and extraordinarily racist and classist. total fader, babes.
I think this was the book that taught me how to cook. It's opinionated, dirigiste, superbly written and selected, and if curse all the recipes not only work - they take you off to a France that went out when a DS was a very sexy car, not a games console.
A classic which I still go back to from time to time.
Ahhh, what a delight to read! You can practically taste the food as you read the words. I've bookmarked a few recipes to try, as well.
the book is so original!!!
After an Introduction, and a discussion of French cooking in England, Mrs David progresses to describe the style of cooking in each geographical region, kitchen know-how, then the recipes from sauces to meat, what to do with any left overs, sweet dishes, and finally finishes with a flourish of cookery books, bibliography and index.
The other good thing about cooking from a book like this is that it keeps my local butcher alert and interested.
). That sounds like good value; and more so given that today the RRP is £12.99 (i.e. inflation of nearly 100% over fifty years), with Waterstones pricing at £9.79 with free delivery.
Possibly the best French cookbook ever written in English.
There's not a bunch of fancy color photos here, instead, you'll find mainly pen-and-ink line drawings, but there's a wealth of text, good recipes, and pithy details on how and why things were done the way they were in provincial France.
The historical value of this book cannot be overstated, but every recipe I've cooked from it also has come out great.
It's published by Penguin Classics as a paperback so it's also cheap compared to the huge coffeetable cookbooks of today.
Before my French provincial mother passed away, I forgot to ask her to pass on the recipe for a particularly delicious chocolate cake that she would sometimes make. I thought this cake was lost for all eternity until I stumbled upon it in this book.One of the few cookbooks that contains recipes for dishes that aren't particularly great, but allow you to dispose of glut fruits and vegetables. Invaluable if you get a veg box delivered!Worth reading as literature even if you aren't planning a meal.
Excellent cookbook. My favorite kind, with no pictures except a few line drawings. Good receipes, cooking techniques (both specific to said recepies and general), and food theory. The only useless (to me) parts were a lot of commentary on the post-war availability of various ingredients in France and England - which is probably not accurate in 2012.
If you care about food, hunger for authenticity and context, and you're not afraid of a little ambiguity, you owe it to yourself to read Elizabeth David's Italian Food and French Provincal Cooking. Elizabeth David's books, along with Richard Olney's Simple French Food, were the inspirations behind Chez Panisse and indirectly helped to spark America's interest in what it puts in its mouth.
Elizabeth David is credited with revolutionizing the way England cooked and ate, championing simple food made with fresh ingredients and lovingly prepared. In French Provincial Cooking, she takes her readers through a culinary tour of the provinces of France, presenting both the history of and recipes for some of France's most famous dishes.
A classic, and yet.....David is a great writer which makes the bias and dated aspects of the text all the more difficult to bear. It is a crystalized moment in time, when the Anglo-American middle class finally recovered psychically from World War II food rationing. A cookbook, it ain't.
As with most of her books you can read it not just as a cookbook but as a good read. I have several editions of this including an early paperback. The current edition is about 2 1/2 times the size and 3 times the thickness, why?
I bought this book in the mid-1970's and still refer to it. It transcends food trends with its basic understanding of what "simple", good cooking is.
A book to admire from a behaviour changing writer, haven't used a single recipe from it 'though.
Really liked the cultural references in the book and how Elizabeth David writes. I must confess that I skimmed through the recipes though.
"...to the peaceful kitchen task of concocting the beautiful shining golden ointment which is mayonnaise." How can one not love a book with phrases like that?
I love Elizabeth David's food books and this one is probably my favorite.
learnt to cook french food from this book
Poignant. Love this one.
I just could not get into this one, I tried several times and nope. Can't read it.
worth the price for the section on sauces alone
Fun to read and great recipes.
This book takes you into the French countryside in the 1950's. It is a joy to discover recipes and anecdotes written about food by this wonderful writer.
Elizabeth David writes like an angel.
