https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1057071.Fighting_Angel
I don't think I ever read anything by Pearl Buck, except the famous "The Good Earth", but as soon as I started reading this one, which is a biography of her father, a missionary in China, I was awed by her talent.
The history begins when Andrew (the father), at the tender age of 7, overhears a neighbor tell his mother that he is the only ugly child in the family.
One of my favorite is that Andrew's own mother, after raising 7 sons on a farm determined at the age of 65 to do no more work.
In my opinion her father, Absalom Syndenstricker (1852-1931), must have had Asperger's because throughout the book, he reveals those tendencies.
Thank God that her mother nurtured the children and basically all the responsibilities were on her shoulders (but he didn't relinquish the checkbook until he was 70 years.) He didn't value his daughters.
This book expresses Pearl's conflicted portait of her missionary father.
Her father was a man who only saw his "work" (lifetime of evangelizing) and barely had any close relationship with his wife and children.
Yet he never valued her work and didn't even want to see her on her death bed.
Pearl S. Buck worte this biography of her father and their life in China. It details his missionary efforts and her relationship with him.I read it and enjoyed as I enjoy Pearl Buck's style of writing. It is a better biography than "the Exile"--about her mother--because it is a more balanced portrait.Anyone who likes Pearl Buck's writing, or is curious about life in China in the early half of the 20th century will enjoy this book.
I'm going to have to track that one down, and read it as well.Part biography, part character sketch, this book covers the life of her father, Andrew, as he grew up, left his family farm, and came to China as a missionary.
Such things, as the fact that the notion of marrying would probably never would have even entered his head, if his mother hadn't said she'd only bless him going out as a missionary unless he did.
I was left with the impression that Pearl, though she loved and respected her father, didn't really like him too much.(One final note: I got this book through Google Books via B&N.
I had no idea that Pearl Buck wrote biographies of her parents!
I borrowed this book from my mom ages ago (she has since passed away).
I recently found it on a shelf.
I think it may be a first edition.
I feel dI got to know Pearl S.
Buck better.
First, different parental relationships in a different age.
Second, a very religious man in the same setting as the establishment of the LDS church by Joseph Smith.
This really put the religious fervor of that day into perspective.
Very, very interesting.
Very, very interesting.
Really an interesting read!
Very boring but not a surprise for me as i remember the autobiography of the author was the same. She should have stuck with fiction . I have given many of her books 5 stars. She is one of my favorite authors. This bio of her father may be well written but I did not like the person she was describing , not one thing about him was of interest to me. I think it was because of people like him that the Boxer Rebellion came about. Perhaps my atheism influenced my review. NOOO the guy was a jerk
It's also a fascinating study in the nonfiction-fiction continuum in that while all that Buck writes rings incredibly true, she finds it necessary to change her father's name from "Absalom" to "Andrew," and never refers to him as "Father" anywhere in the book.
Instead, she manages to hold the paradox of his life as a "fighting angel," a visionary prophet whose true belief (in something Buck herself doesn't even seem to believe in at the time of writing the memoir) mars his ability to be fully human.Quite frankly, I don't know how she accomplishes this, but it works.
Fighting Angel is her biography and memoir of her father Absalom Sydenstricker (or Andrew as he's called in the book).
The book is written with Buck's usual straightforward approach of weaving simple words together into fully realized worlds.Her memoir though is written without warmth.
Though she refers to herself sometimes in the first person, she calls her parents by their first names (Carie and Andrew).
She also sometimes refers to herself as Comfort (her middle name) making it seem as if she is speaking of a different person.The portrait she paints of her father isn't complimentary.
In a companion volume to “The Exile” about Pearl Buck’s mother, she now writes about her father, Absalom Sydenstricker, called Andrew in the book.
I believe he loved his children and his wife, but he had no idea how to interact with them.
I was impressed with Carie’s story in “The Exile” but after reading about Andrew, I have an even greater respect for Carie as a strong woman and loving mother, living with her children while Andrew was gone for weeks at a time preaching.
I’m glad that I read what might be called “the other side of the story.”
When I read "The Exile" which is the biography of her mother, I was turned off by how consumed her father was with his mission to evangelize China. Reading this one gives me a better sense of the man. But I'm still bothered by his all-consuming drive at the expense of relationship with his family. It seems to me that there's more to evangelism than just how many souls you can claim for the Kingdom.
This is Pearl Buck's biography of her father, Andrew Sydenstricker, missionary in China in the late 19th/early 20th century. He is a fascinating man--single-minded in fulfilling his calling. I love anything by Pearl Buck. She writes beautifully and gives inside glimpses of the life of the Chinese and the life of American missionaries in China.
This is just "The Exile" again, except with Buck's father, rather than her mother, as the subject. To get my review of "Fighting Angel", take my review of "The Exile" and swap "mother" for "father" and "saint" for "bigot," with the additional complaint that writing the same book - particularly the same not particularly interesting book - twice is inexcusable.
The biography of Pearl S. Buck's father who was a Chinese missionary. It was a little slow and kind of sad since she portrayed him as so devoted to God that he ignored his family. Pearl was a little bitter I think. She also wrote a biography about her mother, but I can't find the book. I think her perspective would be really interesting.
When a person becomes obsessive in a cause, a creed or their work it affects the people around them. Pearl Buck shares her stories as the daughter of a missionary in China. Her writing talents takes you back to China and all the hardship and loneliness her family suffered. Her simple form of writing brings the feelings of the people involved to the surface in a unique way.
Biografia tatălui autoarei, un misionar creștin în China. Pe lângă talentul evident al scriitoarei, transpare viața extremă pe care a dus-o Andrew, tatăl, un om consumat de misiunea lui (creștinarea poporului chinez), atât de consumat încât fără să realizeze vreodată, într-un fel sau altul și-a sacrificat familia.
Pearl S. Buck never disappoints me. Specially with such a limited scope of a sin-less, lackluster autobiographical account of an unknown priest who happens to be her father, she still held her fort quite well.
Pearl Buck's biography of her father. He wasn't a person that was easy to like or a father that was easy to love, but her depiction of him is generous and compassionate. He was a remarkable man and the book is well worth reading.
Je ne trouve pas que ce roman porte un regard neuf sur la Chine, contrairement à ses autres ouvrages. Si sa qualité littéraire et historique est indéniable, il est de moindre qualité par rapport aux autres œuvres que j'ai pu lire d'elle, et que j'ai adoré.
Contemporary classic presenting clear view village life in China... an honest farmer Wanglung and his selfless Olan... Takes through Wanglung struggles, ambition, his hardwork and sweeping changes in his life... Quite an interesting book and I loved reading it.
This is a bio of Pearl's father, he was a strange man but a powerful believer in the Lord's work. Very interesting to me since I am an admirer of Pearl S. Buck's works. Do not agree with his ways but determined he was in a timeline I cannot judge as did not live in it.
Fascinating memoir about Pearl S Bucks father who was a missionary to China. The Kindle version has a lot of typographical errors which can make it difficult to read sometimes. That's why I gave it 4 stars.
This is the biography of Buck's missionary parents who worked in China, so it's written from a non-Christian TCK's point-of-view. It's a very interesting perspective on what has been considered a successful missionary career.
J'ai pas aimé le personnage principal "Andrew" (qui semble être le père de l'auteur): Il est misogyne jusqu'à la moelle, têtu et dogmatique, pense que ses enfants sont des incidents dans son existence...la liste risque d'être longue!!!!
Pearl S. Buck's memoir of her father's work as a missionary in China. Fabulous story.... very factual accounting of how little she and her mother weighed in her father's life, yet Buck is clearly proud of the work he did and his motivations behind it.
Very interesting biography of the author's father, set around 1900 mainly in China.
ditto
stamped
the story of Pearl S. Buck's father, missionary in China
This is Pearl Buck's biography of her father, a man who gave himself totally to God. Fascinating reading.
Fighting Angel is a slightly fictionalized story of Pearl Buck's father, and should be read with The Exile, her mother's story. Both served as missionaries in China.
