https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278528.The_Phantom_Freighter
It's late, so, I'll just say this: The usual hallmarks of the series are present here, and fans of the franchise will likely enjoy this.
One of the very first books I read. I love this story to this day.
A solid mystery in the Hardy Boys series. We got Chet and Biff along for the ride, although they didn't get to help that much. This was one of those stories where a scientific Macguffin was central to the plot; although we didn't know that until the last eight pages of the book! A good tale for younger kids and for parents to read at bedtime.Read It!
The book was okay, the resolution was not. The "scientific" gadget at the end was preposterous and not based on any reality, nor was it explained. The ridiculous old man who wanted to vacation with 3 boys was never explained. He just wanted a vacation?? What? This is one of the poorer Hardy Boys books.
Great ending but really sometimes the book felt like the whole thing was just following Frank and Joe as they tried to get a vacation for an old man and kept failing. I mean poor McClintock! He hires these boys to find him a vacation and look what he gets into!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This book was written by both Leslie McFarlane and his wife, Amy. It's pretty standard... more smugglers! It took longer to write because Amy had a dentist operation in the middle of this book that cost her 22 teeth. Yikes.
Another great Hardy Boys mystery.
Dixoncopyright 1947 by Simon & Schustermystery This story starts with two detectives' aunt not being able to receive a carton in the mail.
It brought out my eagerness to what could possibly happen next and it made me feel like I was in the book and I had to solve the case with them.
This book also had its share of humor, so it was good for me in that case too.
The author did a good job of waiting until the end of the book until the detectives finally captured the criminals.
I am also related to the two detectives in this book because I get along with my friends like they do.
I read a lot of The Hardy Boys mysteries when I was a boy.We had fairly low expectations and were pleasantly surprised — initially — that the writing was pretty solid, the characters engaging and the plot, though a little lumpy (The "job" that Mr. McClintock's engages Frank and Joe to do made no sense.) was just believable enough.
New mysteries seemed to be cropping up every few pages, and each one involved one or the other of the boys getting knocked unconscious, kidnapped or drowned, but having read the Walt Longmire series earlier this year we had developed a fairly high tolerance for Energizer Bunny heroes so we let that slide.About three quarters of the way through the book the author seemed to realize that he had to many balls in the air.
To think that these books have been a staple of children__s literature for nearly ninety years is appalling.
Children deserve better.
No such luck.I__d like to think that the original version of the Hardy Boys mysteries were better than these re-written versions, but based on the some of the reviews I__ve read of the originals, I have my doubts.
There are two kinds of success: That which sprouts from quality and that which occurs through marketing; I can only think the Hardy Boys adventures (I hate to call them mysteries) are the latter.
Eric Espiritu 1st period Title: The Phantom Freighter Author: Franklin W.
My thought on this book was really confusing at first.
And enemies using peoples houses when they are gone.
Mr. McClintock was rude through out the entire book!
My feelings toward this book was shocking, confused, and angry.
From people spying on them or chasing someone down.
Confused because it kind of jumped around a lot.
Ideas for this book is to fix the sequence.
Like make the book flow.
My judgment towards this book was it sounded good.
From seeing "Phantom" I got attached.
Entry 1-Frank and Joe Hardy are the protagonists. The smugglers are the antagonists. Chet and Mr. Hardy are also protaginists.Entry 2- The setting is where the case takes them. The theme is don't characterize a person from how he looks. The point of view is third- person.Entry 3-Mr. McClintock hires the boys to get him a vacation that he likes. They find out that people don't want them to go on any freighters. The phantom freighter leads the boys to the discovery of the smugglers and forgers.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
I Thinks this book is flat out awesome there's two boys who meet this man who's willing to go on a trip with the boys.
And he says he has a secret mission for them, but he doesn't reveal it for a long time, and they found out the man isn't amused easily he almost hates every kind of trip they finally found one kind of thing that he liked but none of the captains lets them aboard even captains that take passengers, but now they don't and they boys wanna know why.
One of my favorite childhood series.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
So many of these took their cue from more adult stories, and dumbed them down enough for kids to get them. I think thats what made them so great.
Franklin W. Dixon outdid himself again
loved it!
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
One of the first 100 books I read as a kid. Loved the simplicity and it made me feel really smart to read the Hardy Boys :)
The Hardy end up on a freighter and get tied up in a smuggling ring
My book was published in 1970 and has the 1970 cover.
read when I was 10 through 13
my favorite series of books of all time
Dixon, Franklin W.
I really enjoyed this! I never really got into the hardy boys as a kid, I was really into Nancy Drew though. If you enjoyed Nancy and gang you'll love these guys!
