https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/495395.The_Year_of_Living_Biblically
Ask yourself: "Would it be fun to literally follow the bible for one year?" If, like most people I know, would answer no, then run away from this book as fast as you can.
I got about 200 pages in when I realized, I can't fucking stand this guy, and his story is getting old quickly.Here's the problem: There are so many retarded things the bible says you should and shouldn't do.
Here's the article But there are so many insignificant and unfunny rules that bible lovers have got to follow and he doesn't spend nearly enough time focusing on the big/potentially funny ones like all those rules about envy and thy neighbor's wife.
Some of the crazy things the author tried such as not mixing fibers in clothing, or not shaking hands with women who may or may not have been menstruating were fairly extreme, but seemingly easy compared with not gossiping or not stealing including: neighbors wireless networks or straws that his two year old wanted to play with at Starbucks.
I really want to try to do all I can to try and have my own years of living Biblically by trying to take the best things from the Bible and the Book of Mormon and incorporate them into the person I would like to be.
I don’t know if such a thing as being “authentically Jewish” exists (versus everyone who is inauthentically Jewish, right?), and I hope I don’t offend by that phrase, but what I’m saying is that I don’t think Moses and Isaiah and all the boys would kick A.J. Jacobs out of their club.
I mean, if you have to stone someone, it’s better to cover your bases, right?If it is not already obvious in what I have said thus far, A.J. Jacobs is unabashedly weird.
I don’t think it is either of those things, but rather, as I said, thoughtful and smart.
G.K. Chesterton once wrote, "Christianity has not been tried and found wanting; it has been found difficult and not tried." In this book, A.J. Jacobs not only tries Christianity, he tries out the whole Bible, both the Jewish and the Christian Scriptures.He does indeed find it difficult.
Even more he does it with a wit and conversational style that draws the reader into his increasingly obscure discoveries.It is, I think, because of this openness to learn that Jacobs provides so many insights.
The Year of Living Biblically is one of the best books I've read this year.
Jacobs, who is known for immersing himself in a project for a year and then writing about it, was warned by family that maybe this wasn't the best concept for a follow-up to his popular "Know-It-All" book, and they may have been right.
For example, Jacobs struggles with following rules set forth in the New Testament because Judaism does not accept Jesus as the savior as Christianity does, or even accept him being one with God in the Trinity, and acknowledging Jesus' teachings is incompatible with his Jewish faith.
It's mean of me to say so, because it's clear that writing it was a rather significant spiritual experience for Jacobs, but this book is just silly. It's meant to be entertaining-yet-thought-provoking, but I only found it mildly entertaining, and not at all thought-provoking. I actually found his wife funnier than him. My favorite part by far was when she was temporarily "unclean" and it annoyed her to be thought of that way, so in revenge she sat on all the furniture so that A.J. would have no place to sit when he got home. Now that was funny.
The Year of Living Biblically starts out pretty fine: I chuckled; I was interested to find out what would come of it all.
I'm so bad at this religion thing!"), he doesn't portray his wife or son too nicely (she comes off as a humorless snot, though she's probably lovely in real life; son Jasper sounds like a brat), and it's annoying how little Jacobs thinks of my memory (me the reader, that is).
He also tells us over and over and over again that he works for Esquire, as if we would all of a sudden think, "Whoa, get back, why is he in the Esquire offices?!?!?" I was probably most disappointed though, because I really expected the stuff he did to be way juicier.
AJ Jacobs is a secular Jew (me too) and spends two thirds of this book researching biblical law and trying to live it.
Living biblically for AJ means dressing in white robes, growing a ZZ Top beard and trying to literally fulfil each commandment even if terribly embarrassing.
To fulfil not lying, when his wife meets old school friends who say let's get together for a play date he tells them no, he's not interested in making new friends right now and so it goes.
But I digress, the point is, that the book is written such that even if you've never set foot in a religious center or read a line of the Bible, you'll still be able to enjoy it immensely, aside from which you will also learn everything you never knew you wanted to know about the Bible.Jacobs begins his yearlong quest as an agnostic, non-practicing Jew living in New York City with his wife Julie and a two-year old son Jasper.
Unless you are a member of the clergy or a fundamentalist Christian, you probably don't know much about the Bible.
Now, if you belong to the second group, you might have then gone and picked up a Bible and, being a Goodreads member and thus obviously someone who likes to read, devoured all 66 books in 12.5 hours.
If you don't already know the Bible, you will probably be quite shocked at some of the things that are in it.
If you know the Bible, you might find some of this tedious, as I did, but it's still quite fun to read.
In their struggle to conceive again, and his wife's acute desire for a baby girl, he struggled with the biblical implications of in-vitro fertilization, but never once did they seem to consider adoption.
Instead of invasive measures to attempt conception with no guarantee of success or gender, measures that are fraught with religious/ethical uncertainty to boot, why not just adopt a baby girl?
What do biblical teachings have to say about adoption at all, if anything?
Admittedly I've never felt a burning desire to conceive, so I can't understand why some couples are willing to spend buckets of money on extreme medical procedures instead of adopting.
However, his "whoooa, I'm so secular, wow, look at all these religious people, whooooa" attitude made it nothing more than a half-baked project written under a deadline, sloppily contrasted with the author's own life, and a superficial read.
(And I can say this because when I lived in New York, I smiled down at and patted the heads of all those other silly, non-New Yorkers.) What you end up with are these talentless hacks spinning out shallow books that talk down to the rest of us.
If Jacobs had taken his project even half-seriously and remembered that the majority of his readers are at the very least semi-religious, then dropped his condescending I'm-so-great-and-secular-and-work-at-Esquire-in-Manhattan attitude, his book might have been halfway decent.
I don't even know for sure what that magazine is about (I think it's a men's magazine), but it makes me want to read it anyways.So, when he's not writing for Esquire, he writes books.
He even threw little pebbles at people he saw breaking the Sabbath, because the bible says they have to be stoned.When I started this book, I thought a lot of the things he had decided to do for the sake of religion sounded ridiculous.
What would happen to the man who really tried to put others before himself?
Love his enemies?
Turn the other cheek?
Give to all who asked- no strings attached?I'd like to read that man's memoirs.But unfortunately, at the end of his hilariously pedantic year-long tour of the Bible, Jacobs manages to have covered none of these.
(Loving your neighbor as yourself is mentioned only in the last chapter- when he says it is in fact impossible.)One must wonder at the man who can spend a year in intense study of...
most anything and emerge with unchanged values, priorities, and worldview.
O lectură cu adevărat diferită față de tot ceea ce am citit până acum. Am aflat o grămadă de lucruri interesante, m-am amuzat dar m-am și intrigat! Este foarte interesant faptul că experiența relatată în carte este una reală, foarte bine documentată și...asumată! :)
This is basically Dave Barry does Bible - Jacobs is sharp witted, funny and has fantastic lines - and his breadth of biblical knowledge is quite vast.
The concept itself is hysterical (as are the pictures of Jacobs bedecked in white, beard flowing as he walks along Amsterdam Avenue) but what really got to me in a 'I want to use this in class sort of way' is that Mr. Agnostic comes to espouse a real appreciation and love for the meaning behind the admittedly freakish things we do.
“I've rarely said the word ‘Lord,’ unless It’s followed by ‘of the Rings.’”I first read this about ten years ago and fell in love with Jacobs’s witty approach. I’ve since read many of his unusual journalistic ventures and I must say his wife is a very patient woman! This time I listened to the audio and loved it all over again. He goes in with an open mind and presents a funny, yet thoughtful and balanced report on his year.
Fun and interesting. A little too self-effacing and mild, but I liked where he went with this. The author kept important threads going throughout the book, with a lot of interesting side excursions.Destined to fulfill The Seasonal Reading Challenge Winter 2017 Task 30.1: Schatzie's Animal Crackers, because the letters "A-B-I- C-O can be found in the title, and "N-A-B-I-S- O" in the subtitle,to make "N-A-B-I-S-C-O" in the title and/or sub-title.Also, for 2017 closure on the SFNFBC TBR Shelf Challenge, this award winning book completes item 5.
I keep going back and forth on keeping this book to donating it, so I'm going to hold onto it until I make up my mind.
lolIt is making me re-examine my own spiritual views, and that is a good thing.
(view spoiler)[Along with the brief brushes of fundamentalist Christianity I was exposed to as a teenager, which really did change me and cause some temporary damage that I'm still bitter about.
I'm not bitter as a whole to Christianity, just the fundamentalist sides.
I might even do heavy research into other religions and spirituality and see what I learn.
Jacobs apologizes, the man apologizes, and an awkward interaction ensues from which both men depart feeling like no serious stoning actually occurred.
Tepid seems the most concise description of this book; no hard commitment either way, and no profound change throughout.
I'm left with regret at having spent a significant amount of time on this shallow quest of Jacobs', but he'll be happy to read that although I really didn't like this book on living biblically, I AM intrigued by his terse and witty style of writing.
A secular writer (for Esquire, he'll tell you at least 100+ times!) decides to live by the bible literally for a year, and write about the challenges of doing so.Hits: - In his effort to try to get a fair representation of the bible, he tries several different interpretations/variations of the bible.
"The Lord is my shepherd." The thought of a hip hop bible sends me into hysterics.
He does not admit to beating the slave within inches of his life (which is okay by Exodus provided the slave survives a few days post beating) so we can assume he just did research and stuff in relative safety.- I was also very curious how he'd handle the idea that you can kill your kid if he gives you crap.
While I’m yet to read this book (but I will) I decided to read The Year of Living Biblically: One Man's Humble Quest to follow the Bible as Literally as Possible.
The book follows the journey of A.J’s alter ego; Jacob who read through the bible and then spent a year trying to live by it.
The Year of Living Biblically is a funny journey, A.J claims to be agnostic, so it makes the book interesting the way he tries to find the real intent behind every rule he follows.
For a guy who doesn't consider himself religious, he has quite a journey trying to live Biblically. I was worried it would be really sacrilegious, but it wasn't. AJ himself gets more out of the experience than he anticipated. He has a lot of deep musings as well as hilarity.
All the verses the left uses against us Christians were tried to be lived out.
I do remember a funny bit in there about his wife menstruating and sitting on every seat in the living room.
Well what is repeated in the new is always supposed to be adhered to.
The sad thing( if I remember correctly ) is that it brought no lasting change to the author, which in all fairness it wouldn't.
Only a personal encounter with the LORD JESUS CHRIST is the only thing that will bring about lasting change in a human being.
It is actually a very funny and open-minded book about the Bible and how following it to a literal extreme is well, just plain silly.A.J. Jacobs has a wonderful sense of humor throughout his year-long project, but I felt bad for his wife, Julie, who had to put up with all kinds of ridiculous rules and projects.
Also, she didn't like his crazy-long beard that he grew.
Poor woman.)I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed this book, and I would recommend it to anyone who has an open mind about religion.
Over his year of “living Biblically,” Jacobs assembles a group of spiritual advisors, and takes field trips to destinations ranging from Pennsylvania Amish Country; to The Creation Museum; to a sort of all-male Hasidic mosh pit on the Jewish holiday of Simchas Torah; to Jerusalem itself.In general, this book is more entertaining than it is exploratory, and reads like an expanded magazine feature (not that that's a bad thing).
* * *Ultimately, I’m not sure what Jacobs will retain from his experience.
It’s the following joke, told to Jacobs and his wife by one of the Pennsylvania Amish:Q.
A.J. Jacobs sets out to poke fun at Biblical literalists by devoting a year to obeying every rule set forth in the Bible, thereby showing the world how impossible and ludicrous Biblical literalism is.I feel rather ambivalent about this book.
And I'm having a really hard time forgiving him doing two stunt memoirs (he reads the Encyclopedia Brittanica in his first book).
I mean, I could set out to read China's answer to Emily Post and practice all the rules set forth in order to prove the inanity of Chinese culture, but who in their right mind would accept that I knew anything about being Chinese?I also don't find it all that interesting that Jacobs debunks literalism.
The best part of the book is Jacobs's balance of his latest life-gimmick and his wife's conception of twins, because all the sleeplessness and stress leads to some very ungodly thoughts.
The best parts are when Jacobs uncomfortably realizes a rule is making him a better person, like rules of honesty that his wife abuses to make him constantly speak his mind.
Over time, Jacobs and his wife find he's actually thinking happier thoughts, experiences less envy of other authors, and more gratitude for his family's health.
For starters, I love people who do ridiculous, over-the-top things, so I figured I was pretty much destined to adore the author.
At the very beginning, Jacobs admits that a part of him is doing this for the book deal.
He calls a spade a spade and then explains his other reasons for undertaking this project, and I love that.I found the whole thing extremely entertaining, and also informative.
PS, I also give major kudos to Jacobs's wife for living through her husband's quest - from the Sukkah in the living room to the refusing contact during certain times of the month to the giant beard to every other quirky thing.
Luckily, A.J. Jacobs gave me enough funny stories to entertain everyone who didn't want to read this book cover to cover.The funny stories in this book include Jacobs attempting to stone people and discipline his son.
I think that one may be more interesting - there are just so many ways to interpret the Bible that you end up with too much explanation and reasoning.Anyways, I do recommend this book as a fun read, with some interesting spiritual dilemmas and humor thrown in as well.
