https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274255.New_Testament_Greek_for_Beginners
Excellent resource. I don't recommend trying to teach yourself Greek--or any other language--but it is a great adjunct to the study. And very helpful for understanding NT Greek once you have the basics.
Not a huge fan. Mounce, Black, Croy... the list of those who are more helpful goes on and on.
What can anyone really say?This is the classic first year Greek Grammar. The same Grammar my Grandfather used at Multnoma School of the Bible. My grandfather recommended this to me before he passed.My Chaplain traded his copy to me in exchange for my pocket knife.I enjoyed teaching myself Greek while I was in the Army from this text.Wayne
The grammar I cut my teeth on - of course, right before it was revised. (sigh) Still - an excellent grammar.
Excellent step by step book on understanding Biblical Greek.
His ability to edit and only give you what is essential and absolutely necessary is refreshing.
My only complaint is that there's (at least in this edition) no answer key to facilitate self-learning.
I would recommend working in conjunction with a second grammar; preferably one that provides answers to the exercises.
However, Machen's ability to communicate troubling and difficult concepts like subjunctives, participles and infinitives and their various uses makes this book a must have on your shelf.
Buy yourself a copy today and learn the beauty of reading God's word in the original language.
This book caused many hours of both pain and passion when I was using it as a textbook for a Beginning new Testament Greek class in seminary. I have referred to it many times since them when trying to understand a passage in the greek New Testament.I will never forget Dr. John Warwick Montgomery - eminenet scholar and author, making us recite the Greek New Testament while he tickled us, in order to get us to be able to remember it no matter what. :)
I have to say I found this more challenging than the text we used in my seminary classes (Hewett), but it is worth it if you have the motivation. Work through the whole grammar and you can sight-read koine Greek. Its tough and its grammar, but you can see hints of why Machen's Greek courses at Princeton in the 20s were so popular with the students. He is passionate about the language, its importance and its beauty.
I cut my teeth on Machen's greek text 25 years ago. It is a good text, and it follows the traditional methods of teaching the language.Now that I am once again trying to renew my knowledge of greek, I am using Mounce's Basics of Biblical Greek.
Oh man I spent years with this book. Great Resource. Liked Efird's much better. But this is a pretty solid book on Greek.
Easy to understand presentation!
this is one to read, re-read and definately read aloud to the kids.
A bit dated, but still a very helpful grammar.
Still learning Greek, but "done" with this book.
