https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31812959-the-murder-on-the-enriqueta
They are very hit and miss generally, but for mystery lovers, it’s worth the try because you might run across a “new” author to read.
While I won’t be seeking out any more of aristocrat Molly Thynne’s mysteries, I do think there will be those who very much enjoy them.I was really excited when I began this book because it had a nice setting and atmosphere and an interesting crime.
To the author's credit, this is very well written, and if Miss Thynne had shaved off a hundred pages, and kept the narrative moving at the same pace which draws you in at the beginning, this would have been a real find for me.
However, I was disappointed by this mystery/thriller by the little-known Molly Thynne.It starts off in exciting style with the murder of a gambler on board an ocean liner, but after the first few chapters the story moves to dry land and becomes increasingly far-fetched.
There are also some exciting cliffhangers at the ends of chapters, but overall the plot is just ludicrous.
Not sure if I'll try any more by this author.(view spoiler)[ The plot involves not one but two secret passages leading out of cupboards/wardrobes in the middle of London.
SuspenceUnlike the first of M Thynne's mysteries, this book is pure hokey suspense, reminding me of early Patricia Wentworth. Drugs, night clubs, kidnappings, slick foreigners, all the trappings of those sorts of mysteries, including the innocent, yet plucky heroine and her faithful swain. We are uncomfortably close to Nancy Drew territory, and indeed it all comes right on the day. Top it off with plucky heroine realising that she does need a man to take care of her after all, and I am wondering if that third star is deserved. But it was engaging, even if naive.

The plot in this story was really farfetched, but it was definitely clever.
I would have given it one more star except for two things:1.
The pigheaded heroine who gets herself in all sorts of trouble because she thinks she can handle things.2.
The fact that the author cheated yet again.
I understand why she couldn't give away a certain plot point, but I felt like she misrepresented a few things.
I was entertained enough that I'll keep reading Thynne's books, mostly because thanks to Kindle Unlimited, they aren't costing me anything.
If I had to pay for them I probably wouldn't keep reading.
Kindle Unliited | This was another good one, I'm already feeling sorry that Thynne only wrote the half dozen mysteries. Again, I found the solution obvious--this time from the 11% point of the book--but I think that readers of the time would have found this to be a particularly ingenious twist that they didn't see coming. Characters are more realistic than many of the time, and I found the book quite difficult to put down.
A. Well written mysteryQuite a jumble of a mystery well written characters. This was a really great page turner to find out who the real murderer actually was. Without gibing away the identity it not the first one you think. It all goes back to the ship and the murder there. Enjoy!
This is without a doubt the best book I have read in a very long time. It is a period piece, which I like, and the characters are real stand outs. It really keeps you guessing from start to finish. I would recommend this to any one who loves a good, clean mystery.
Could have done with a less airheaded heroine.. I like all other books by Molly thynne, but this one was a bit of disappointment. None of the characters had any depth whatsoever
Quaint, fun who dunnit. You can figure it out early in the story, but it is an enjoyable book
Totally far fetched but quite entertaining nevertheless. Almost impossible to say more without giving the game away.
Bluff and Double BluffWhat a delightful book this is.
It is the first book of Molly Thynne's I have read, although I am a fan of "Golden Age" murder mysteries.
This book is well-written and edited which always makes for easy reading.
There is enough going on in this story to keep the reader's interest, indeed at times it becomes just a bit too busy, but I enjoyed this book and think that if you are a "Golden Age" aficianado, you will too.
I will be buying more books by this author.
Formulaic but enjoyable murder mystery from the late 1920s. It's hardly the greatest example of the genre, but it's good fun and, for me, that more than made up for any deficiencies!
A delightful golden age murder mystery from 1929. Loved it.
I was still surprised by one of the twists. But I'm easily amused by classic murder mysteries.
