https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47301.Zlata_s_Diary
Tried to watch Murphy Brown but the sound was drowned out by shelling (I know, MORE shelling!) and then the rabbit ears were exploded by a sniper's bullet.
Got an A in math, biology, and piano!
The piano was exploded so had to mime the recital.
This text is like a mashup of Anne Frank and White Noise.
The most astonishing thing in reading this is that the causes of war and the motives of the warring factions were too convoluted for a very smart 11-yr-old to try to sort out, even as she was being victimized by those disputes.
There's not much you can say about this book. Wartime diaries are a very effective way of communicating what people suffer through on a daily basis. This book was clearly written by an intelligent and sensitive young woman. It was interesting to read her thoughts on being compared to Anne Frank--she didn't want to be compared to her since she didn't want to suffer the same fate. That to me was an insightful comment about people being more than just news items.
Zlata lives in Sarajevo and starts keeping a diary in September 1991, not long before her 11th birthday.
Zlata mentions politics several times, writing that “politics has started meddling around.
Several times, she expresses anger and despair, writing “I really don’t know whether to go on living and suffering, to go on hoping, or to take a rope and just .
If I heard about Bosnia, if we talked about the war in school, I have no recollection.
Most everything I know about the genocide I learned years later as an adult.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι δεν μπορώ να το κρίνω σα λογοτεχνικό έργο, γιατί δεν είναι τέτοιο. Πρόκειται για το ημερολόγιο ενός 11χρονου κοριτσιού, που βιώνει τον πόλεμο στο Σαραγιεβο στις αρχές της δεκαετίας του 90' και καταγράφει τα όσα βιώνει. Ενα βιβλίο σκληρό και ρεαλιστικό, μέσα στην παιδικότητα και την αθωότητα της "συγγραφέως" του.

She’s just like any other pre-teenager from the (Western?) industrialized rich world.
But there is a difference, by the time you reach page 50, she won’t be anymore pre-teenager from the (Western?) industrialized rich world.
Secondly, because by the time she celebrates her next birthday, her country will be light years away from the “civilized” Western rich world.
But she’s also giving an account of all the miseries of that particular war…her family friends and members are Croatian and Muslim and Serbian…but “it’s the kids” who play at war.
It is Zlata's diary, and shows the awfulness of war, of course.
By no means, do I think war is easy, or that being in war you can pretend all is well.
But God was not known in this book- Zlata wasn't a Christian, or certainly did not appear to be so.
War is not easy, it sucks, but....
this book goes to show that humans fail.
Humans fail.
Hope isn't an easy thing to find and keep.
But this girl's story seemed to lack God, and so, while it has facts (it has dates, facts of the war, insights on living during the war...) I would not recommend it.
Hartverscheurend om te lezen! Wel had ik zl nu en dan een beetje moeite met de schrijfstijl. Het is een kind, maar soms zaten er stukken bij wat ik qua taalgebruik totaal niet bij haar vond passen. Wellicht dat dit aan de vertaling kan liggen natuurlijk. Tijdens mijn opleiding hebben we bij het vak loopbaan en burgerschap meerdere lessen besteed aan de oorlog in voormalig Joegoslavië. Ik vind het nog steeds allemaal erg vaag wat daar gaande is geweest. Zoals Zlata zelf op een gegeven moment zegt: volgens mij doen die jongetjes maar wat.
The young girl who wrote this diary was in the Sarajevo war at the time.
She played with her cat when violence was going on outside her door.
As I read further into the book, I found out that not only is Zlata optimistic for herself, she was also encouraging her parents.
Even though she was a child, Zlata was always there to comfort her parents and remind them of happiness.
Zlata proves that courage and strength doesn't relate to age, but much more to how you react to situations and how much you grow in a time of harshness.
what was so moving about that other diary of a young girl was that anne frank's coming of age and personality and details of her life were provided in context with her reflections on the war and how it affected her.
zlata's incidental and seemingly calculated details of her personal life seem too evenly spaced and balanced amongst her reflections on the war, almost as if added as padding to what is otherwise a basically falsely childish narrative of wartime, to make it seem more authentic and accessible.
It was interesting to revisit this 23 years on; the more things change, the more they stay the same, and all the more occasion to repeat the phrase.
What will come out of Syria?
Has the "Anne Frank of Aleppo" already been found, and how soon until the world gobbles up her words?
What do we do with the cry of the heart?
Who can answer?
Who can stop the "kids" at play when the children are caught up in the violence?
This book makes me angry and disconsolate at my own lack of power, yet I appreciate that it needed to be written and remembered.
extremely sad and heart breaking, but overall an amazing read.
Zlata’s Dairy Filipovic, Zlata “A blast of gunfire!” doesn’t that sound scary. Have you ever heard gunfire before? If you have how does it sound? Did it sound loud and annoying or did it sound nice and peaceful? I think it probably sounded loud and annoying.Zlata’s Dairy about a girl named Zlata Filipovic whose child life was ruined by a war in Sarajevo. Before the war started in Sarajevo, Zlata was living a great life. She took a lot of classes. She took music class, solfeggio class, tennis les
Zlata’s Dairy						Filipovic, Zlata	“A blast of gunfire!” doesn’t that sound scary.
I think it probably sounded loud and annoying.Zlata’s Dairy about a girl named Zlata Filipovic whose child life was ruined by a war in Sarajevo.
Before the war started in Sarajevo, Zlata was living a great life.
The war in Sarajevo also destroyed a lot of people lives.
During the war people became selfish by escaping Sarajevo by their self leaving behind their children and their husbands.Zlata Filipovic did a terrific job writing about all the feelings and the experiences she went through during the war.
"Zlata's Diary" is about an eleven year old girl living with her parents during a war in Bosnia (Sarajevo).
"Zlata's Diary" is similar to "The Diary of Anne Frank." Both take place during a war, but Anne's was timed way before Zlata's was.
Before the war started, her diary consisted of Birthday Parties, friends, school, piano lessons, and being able to go out and play without having to worry about a shell falling on their heads.
Through all this, Zlata knew that she had to stay confident so that she wouldn't worry her parents.
Zlata's diary goes through so much for girl that is so young.
Zlata made me realize how lucky I am not living through a terrible war.
For example, in her diary she writes, "It looks to me as though these politics mean Serbs, Croats, and Muslims.
But they are all people, there's no difference.
They all have arms legs and heads, they walk and talk, but now there's 'something' that wants to make them different." This quote shows that she is very accepting and does not discriminate against others.
I also really like how honest and accurate Zlata is when she writes a new entry.
Çocukluğumun ilk kitaplarından; bana nerede olduğumu unutturup savaşın göbeğine götüren, dünyanın acımasız gerçeklerini küçücük yaşta yüzüme çarpan, kaç kez dönüp okuduğumu sayamadığım, kanımı donduran yegane kitaplardan Zlata'nın Günlüğü. İlk okuduğumda Zlata'dan küçüktüm, o hep o yaşta kaldı ben büyüdüm ama kitabı elime aldığımda hissettiğim şeyler geçen yıllara rağmen hiç değişmedi. Kesinlikle herkes okumalı.
But really, I'd like you to keep in mind that I'm not here to actually compare this diary to anything else, though Zlata did speak of allusions of Anne Frank and how people even told her that she was like her.
The positive vibe she had coming off of her only made me love her more, and she was the perfect role for writing this call, to inform individuals about her life, although she hadn't known that people would begin to read it eventually.
Zlata's Diary is the true story of Zlata Filipovic, a young girl who lived and suffered through the terrible siege in Sarajevo in the early 1990s.
Whether it's being used to it, fighting for survival or something else, I don't know." How tragic that Zlata was forced into getting used to snipers, shells flying, and war as her every day existence.
She is a survivor (she and her family were able to escape to France shortly after the last entry in this diary was written), and her diary lives on as a reminder of what that siege did to Sarajevo.
1991-93 were years of tremendous upheaval in my own life, so all I really remember of the war in Sarajevo and surroundings was that you couldn't get a world map for love nor money here in my city (I was told things were changing too fast, they weren't being printed until the map printers found out what was where and who it belonged to).
I've read Anne Frank's diary repeatedly over the years, so I may come back to Zlata at a later date.
What hit me was remembering what my life here was like during the Sarajevo conflict, and how the news from there was interwoven in my daily prayer.

I feel bad for not really liking this book...
It is a diary of a girl in Sarajevo in the 90's during the Bosnian War..
I think the real greatness of this book is that at the time it brought a voice to the conflict and made people more aware of what was going on.
Otherwise I wouldn't have gotten on Wikipedia and looked for more information about this war that happened when I was nearly the same age as Zlata but never learned about in school (even with a BA in History..
I guess there are just too many wars to cover).
This is the 2nd time I've read this book, the first time when I was 7, so understandingly, most of the content I'd either forgotten, or not understood.
I enjoyed the book the first time I read it, but this time not so much.This time I found it to be very repetitive and very boring.
I wasn't particularly attached or bothered by the events in the book this time.
I think had Zlata been slightly older her writing would have been better, but with her being so young, the writing although clear, wasn't brilliant.Overall I found the book to be just OK and gave it 3 stars.
اول از همه بگم که کتاب، در اصل، لیاقت ۴ ستاره داشت، ولی ارزشش برای من، همون ۳ ستاره بود:یک. این کتاب، نمیدونم چرا، از سال ۷۳ که پرویز علمایی توسط نشر نی، چاپش کرده، دیگه تو ایران چاپ نشده؛ با اینکه کتاب ِ خیلی معروفی هست تو دنیا، و "من ملاله هستم" ِ زمان ِ خودش بوده.دو. ترجمهی کتاب شسته-رفته بود نسبتا، اما بزرگترین مشکلش این بود که مترجم به خودش زحمت نداده بود که بعضا، پاورقیهای بیشتری برای آشنایی ِ مخاطب ایرانی با مسائلی که در کتاب مطرح میشه بذاره. کتاب میتونست حاوی اطلاعات سیاسی، تاریخی و فرهن
این کتاب، نمیدونم چرا، از سال ۷۳ که پرویز علمایی توسط نشر نی، چاپش کرده، دیگه تو ایران چاپ نشده؛ با این‌که کتاب ِ خیلی معروفی هست تو دنیا، و "من ملاله هستم" ِ زمان ِ خودش بوده.دو.
کتاب می‌تونست حاوی اطلاعات سیاسی، تاریخی و فرهنگی ِ جالب ِ توجهی باشه، ولی متاسفانه ترجمه‌ی فارسیش، از خوندن ِ خاطرات ِ یک دختر بچه، در دوران ِ جنگ، فراتر نرفت.سه.
خود ِ کتاب، و ایده‌ی چاپ ِ دفتر ِ خاطرات یک کودک ِ ۱۱ ساله، جالب بود.
بنابراین، در عین ِ حال که شنیدن ِ این مسائل از دید ِ یک کودک، احتمالا ایده‌ی جالبیه، ولی ترجیح ِ شخصیم، خوندن ِ خاطرات ِ یک بزرگسال بود در همین موضوع.
Zlata is ten years old when she begins to keep a diary.
Her life changes when her home in Sarajevo comes under attack during the Bosnian War. In her diary, Zlata describes how the war if effecting her family and friends, such as a boy who was killed in the park near her home and the lack of electricity and water in her apartment.
Zlata's diary is compared to that of Anne Frank's but of course the two stories and authors are different.
I enjoyed reading this book because Zlata is easy to relate to and her story of survival is an absorbing read.
She was stunned by what her mum was saying on what had happen to the people and where they went When I read the book it felt as if I was in the place where the war had started and it felt unpleasant.
My opinion on the book would be if Zlata had the option to run away then I think that she should have an option to bring her family members but since her mum place didn’t go that well it would be hard for Zlata surviving with her friends gone to another country,
Thankfully it worked and although she might not have read them herself, she has a reasonable knowledge of many children’s classics either from us reading to her, or listening to tapes.She was eleven years old herself, the same age as Zlata, when Zlata’s Diary was originally published and it was an excellent way to introduce to her the effects of war on children.At the beginning of 1992 Zlata Filipovic was living in Sarajevo, the normal everyday life of a young girl, school, holidays and time with friends were uppermost in her thoughts.
Having completed it, I am glad I waited until this era of the internet so I was able to find out what happened to Zlata after the book ends.
I suppose that is always a possibility when it is a diary being printed, especially a diary of a living person during a current event, as I imagine the publisher wanted to get Zlata's writing to readers while the war in Sarajevo was still being fought.Sarajevo isn't really talked about much these days, I'm not sure if that's because the area is still volatile but Irag and the Middle East get more headlines or if in the overall grand scheme of things, the conflict ranks as a relatively minor one.
Eu sei que ela só tinha onze anos, mas claramente se vê que ela era uma menina muito consciente do que estava acontecendo em volta dela, mesmo não entendendo as coisas de uma forma mais refinada.
Que estava sugando e destruindo a infância dela e a vida das pessoas em volta.Outro problema pra mim nesse sentido foram as comparações com Anne Frank.
E com o diário impresso o paralelo por todos foi feito.Numa perspectiva mais factual, eu não sei nada sobre a guerra da Bósnia.
O que o diário me proporcionou foi uma visão de civis, e por isso sinto que é algo mais universal.
After almost two years living in war, she was able to leave the city through the help of the French publishers who took an interest in her writing, but she was one of the lucky few who escaped.
Not everyone could, much of the city was destroyed, tons of lives were lost, and now 20 years after the fighting stopped, the city is still on the rocky road to recovery.
Zlata, otra joven víctima de la guerra, narra con desconcierto y horror el inicio del conflicto en Bosnia-Herzegovina, desde la casa familiar ubicada en pleno Sarajevo.Tuve la oportunidad de leer ambos libros en algún momento de mi adolescencia, entre los 14 y los 17 años, y ambos son desgarradores pero, en su día, el que más me impactó fue el Diario de Zlata.
Imagino que se debe a que en aquel momento aún estaba relativamente cercano todo el conflicto yugoslavo y a que, según relataba Zlata en su diario, la vida en Bosnia-Herzegovina era tranquila y pacífica, hasta que repentinamente estalló la guerra.
