https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294613.Little_Bear_s_Friend
I loved this story of making a summer friend and being pen pals.
Maurice Sendak was the artist and he used 4 colors, black, white, green and brown for.
The story, the art.Little bear is sweet and kind and precious.
I had this warm glow in my chest while reading it and I wanted to read it all over again when I was done.
It was a fantastic story.
I am a huge fan of these little bear books.I let my niece read this one and I think she is going to read it.
I'll have to update what she thinks of it.
Interesting story, a good book for children to read
Reason for Reading: My son read the book aloud to me as his reader.Summary: Little Bear meets Emily for the first time; she and her parents are camping in the woods for the summer.
They become friends, have adventures on their way to owl's house for his party and say goodbye at the end of the summer.Comments: Fans of the TV show will be interested in seeing how Emily really meets Little Bear for the first time and that indeed she does have parents who are alive and well!
Minarik was a brilliant story teller and she, as usual, does a wonderful job with the limited vocabulary of this book, part of the original "An I Can Read Book" series.
On his way down from the tree to head home for lunch, the little bear meets lots of new friends including a young girl named Emily.
The book follows the adventures of the two friends and all the other friends they meet and play with.
A reading curriculum would benefit from the book because it teaches children how to sound out words and follow along in the story using the text and pictures provided.
This book would also be helpful in teaching children that there is so many things to explore in the world and on their way to finding new things, they will meet interesting people.
EDLI 200 Reading Requirement: Easy ReaderGenre: Fiction Easy ReaderReading Level: Grade 1-3Take off on another adventure with Little Bear as he makes a new friend, lends a helping hand, delights in the pleasure of friendship and reminds us that the truest gifts in life are often right in front of us.
"Mini" chapter book for students. This would be a nice choice to put in the library when reading other Little Bear books. Talks about friendships and being loyal. Vivid and detailed pictures used throughout.
This is the other Little Bear book I grew up reading. My old battered copies of this and Father Bear Comes Homes have been passed down to my eight year old daughter who loves them. She recently read this one and Father Bear Comes Home aloud to me.
This is the third book in the Little Bear series. To me, this book is not as good as the others. The story with Little Bear's new friend Emily is not as original as the other stories about Little Bear. It is still good and worth reading.
Just as it's time to go home, Little Bear meets a lost girl and helps her find her way home. A good book for readers who are ready to read on their own.
I love Little Bear! (Yay for books they were getting rid of at the library I worked at last year!)
I think that girl is crazy. Talking to bears? Oh my, someone help her...
Such cute pictures.
Another great easy to read chapter book. Little Bear makes a new friend, Emily. Grades K through 2.
Our favorite of the series... We read it again and again after the books had had a rest.
Un libro álbum considerado ya clásico, donde Sendak comenzó a forjar su estilo. Interesante, pero nada del otro mundo.
My childhood favorite :-)
A charming and imaginative story about a friendship between bear and a little girl. A delightful little story for young children and early readers.
Adorable story and illustrations.
These were like my all time favorite books when I was 5!!!! 😂❤❤❤❤ I re-read them and they are so sweet! 😆😁
These were like my all time favorite books when I was 5!!!! 😂❤️❤️❤️❤️ I re-read them and they are so sweet! 😆😁
Little Bear meets Emily, whom he immediately befriends. They go on adventures together such as babysitting ducklings and going to Owl's party.
Purchased for my collection.
At the end of the summer Emily must go, but Little Bear’s mother tells him he can write her letters and that makes him feel better.Professional Recommendation/Review #1: Kirkus ReviewOnce again the little bear of Else Minarik and Maurice Sendak (illustrator) proves himself to be as wistful and tender a little creature as exists in the child's library.
Simple sentence structures make this a fun and accessible book for early readers.Response to Two Professional Reviews: The first review talks about the charm of the story, and I think that there was a lot of it.
This picture book, produced three years after the first Little Bear, shows an increase in skill by both Else Holmelund Minarik, the author, and Maurice Sendak, the illustrator.
The stories revolve around Little Bear's new friend, Emily, and her doll, Lucy, who is treated by the author as a real person.
Each of the four stories show off Minarik's witty humor while still staying true to the childlike nature of her main character.
My favorite in this book is the first story.
I also noticed how gray washes were utilized more in this book.
I read one of the Little Bear books a few years back.
Although I was not in the least bit interested in the mermaid, I saw the beauty of the illustrations and told myself that if I ever found a Little Bear book *without* a mermaid in it, I would buy it.
They strike up an instant friendship and spend the rest of the summer having tea parties and playing together.
But perhaps Little Bear can use Emily’s parting gift – a pen – to continue their friendship!Little Bear and his parents live in a house and sometimes wear clothes.
I think I must have re-read this book a hundred times as a child, delighting in the descriptions, the world, the stories.
There was something soft and gentle and just perfect for the beginning reader in them.Now, re-reading these books as an adult, I see that they haven't lost a thing.
There is still that wonder.
I love Little Bear up in the tree, and the way he sees the world.
I love his friendships, and how unselfish he and his friends are when it comes to showing their affection for each other.
This is still a wonderful book, and will always be on my favorites shelf.
Little Bear and his adventures are classic. Full of charm and simplicity, each little chapter shouldn't be missed.Reading Level: 1st - 3rd gradesCleanliness: twice someone says "My goodness!"**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Little Bear's Friend is a book that I have loved for a long time. The illustrations are classic in nature, just like the stories. There are four different stories, each building on the previous with the theme of friendship. I like the stories because they are calm in nature and would be good to use as a transition into a quiet time. The book could also be used with puppets for a more action since there is a lot of first person speech.
Synopsis: "One summer Little Bear makes friends with a girl named Emily. But when summer ends, Emily must leave. Little Bear is very sad—until he finds a way to stay close to his new friend even when she is far away!"My Review: Probably one of the best in the series so far and one that I will definitely be allowing Munchkin to read. It also seemed like one of the easier ones to read for little ones just learning how to read. I also enjoyed the simple illustrations.
In this book Little Bear meets Emily and her doll Lucy. The chapters are nice as they develop a friendship through the book. Little Bear wants to write to Emily when she has to leave the woods to go to school. I personally remember this book as one of my favorites growing up and now shared with my children and now grandchild.
This is a nice sweet collection of stories. I was at first surprised that it held the attention of both my 5 and 8 year old. I thought my oldest would find it too babyish, because she is off reading far more complicated chapter books to herself. But a nice sweet story read aloud at bedtime can be just the thing. I would recommend this one to others.
