https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/801823.Chasing_the_Dragon
Jackie Pullinger's life in Hong Kong is that kind of story.I am not pentecostal.
Speaking in tongues, signs and wonders, healings and resurrections were all a bit far for my home church.
Only after you've committed to Pullinger's story does the gift of tongues come to center stage.
Honestly, speaking in a Holy Spirit language is both catalyst and content to much of her work in Hong Kong's Walled City.But the way she brings this gift across even has me questioning my own prejudices (which is always a good thing).
Pullinger's two final chapters put the first part of her story into some perspective.
As a white Westerner headed to a Southeast Asian slum in a few months, re-reading CTD gave me fresh hope and renewed gratefulness for God's call in my life.CTD is one of those generally-not-recommended styles of missionary work: Pullinger goes by herself, without a sending org, and sets up shop ministering cross-gender; she has very little boundaries or rhythms of self care.
That said, AMAZING works of the Holy Spirit happen in part because Pullinger was obedient and tenacious in her response to God's call in her life.
This book is awesome.
For a single woman to leave her land just by faith to a land unknown like Abraham and start a ministry, just fills your heart with joy.
It also seemed like one spectacular highlight after another of people getting saved and speaking in tongues, for which I praise God (and I'm not a cessationist), but it would have been helpful to hear more processing of her heart through these years, and I would have loved to see her elaborate on her sorrows and lows (she says she had some, but doesn't really elaborate).
My last read and second of 2018: Chasing the Dragon by Jackie PullingerThis is a true story which many have described as “inspiring”.I could have easily done the same but that would have been embellishing the truth.
It made me introspect a lot and I ask myself some very tough questions."Chasing the Dragon" is a true story of Jackie Pullinger’s work in Hong Kong’s infamous “Walled City”.
I was blown away by this book.
Mostly, because God is so PRESENT in this book.
He is the center of everything, and Poon Siu Jeu (Jackie's Chinese name) continues to give him glory for everything that happens.
The way she presents the gospel is so simple to everyone she meets, and the miracles that happen seem so commonplace that sometimes I forgot that these things ARE NOT NORMAL.
Jackie presents it all in this book, the good and the bad, and at the end all I seem to be able to say is: GOD IS SO GOOD.
I commend Jackie Pullinger on all the wonderful things she accomplished and all the people she helped in the Walled City. I enjoyed reading about the interesting people she came in contact with. I gave two stars because I thought the story became very repetitious.
Amazing testimony in a book that was poorly written. I think it did a disservice to her life’s work, but there were plenty to love the book exactly as it was written. Repetitive, poorly written, confusing at times in switching back and forth with people that had such similar lives.
It was the gang members, prostitutes, and opioid addicts who were desperate enough really to want the heart of what Jackie had to give.- Jackie being told she needed the baptism in the Spirit if she really wanted to see fruit, her offense at this, the persistent prayer of the Chinese couple to see she got it, and finally - her speaking in tongues.- The key role praying in tongues had in Jackie's ministry, but also the Chinese addicts coming off heroin with minimal or no symptoms when they prayed in the Spirit.- The joy of the new converts, despite their circumstances, poverty, etc.- What hideous things come out of a culture in which demons are worshiped: children brought into the world by parents' greed so that they will serve them; children bought and sold or produced simply so the adult will have someone who will worship their memory when they're dead.
It could easily have been 5 stars as the story was simply amazing; Jackie Pullinger must truly be a vessel of the Lord.
I don't mean to be disrespectful but unfortunately, the constant barrage of success after success after success could have been summed up in one number of how many young men had either stopped being drug addicts or drug barons - job done!I have always had a problem with the 'issue' of repentance.
This hypocrisy and utter dismissal of the willingness by even one person to repent means I can't give this any more than 2 stars.
Individual stories were obviously condensed but it did strike me that a lot of it was 'Jesus can help you, addict becomes Christian, addict no longer addict.
Did make me think that sometimes we spend so much time thinking through the arguments of God's existence through and yet these people accepted without a second thought and within minutes seemed to be speaking in tongues (there is a LOT of emphasis on this).Still, a very good read and one to make you think: and realise how lucky you are in being born where you were.
I love how Ms. Firman can mix a little romance, fantasy, mystery, suspense, and a few really evil characters into a story that just keeps racing ahead.
I can count on her characters to keep me guessing, and caring, from the beginning of the book to the very end of the last chapter.
About the time I think I know where the author is taking me in the story, she twists it and I'm heading in a new, even more wonderful direction - so starting each new book in this series has been exciting.
It is for these people that God fills her heart with love and a desire to serve.I've been wanting to read this book since Leslie Ludy mentioned Jackie Pullinger in a lecture given in 2010.
The power of individuals sold-out for Jesus never ceases to amaze me.The one thing that I got a little hung up on was Jackie's incessant talk about "praying in tongues." As a Christian who lands on the "skeptical" side of the fence concerning the gift of tongues, I found it's prominence in the book rather distracting.
:)It's my prayer that more Christians today will find the courage to leave comfortable "western" lives to serve even those deemed "undesirable" by the world.
Thank God for people like Jackie who followed His call.
She tells the story of how she was convinced God had called her to go to Hong Kong to share the Gospel ...
God used her in absolutely spontaneous and miraculous ways to eventually reach drug addicts in the Walled City portion of Hong Kong.
She tells her story with simple transparent faith and humor ...
I was amazed that the drugs that seemed to explode onto the American scene in the 60's already had such a stronghold in Hong Kong.
The stories told in this book underscore the demonic nature of drugs and Satan's tactic of promising the "moon" and delivering "hell" instead !
This was an exciting book to see how the Holy Spirit moved and changed young men's lives in Hong Kong's Walled City in the 1980's.
The sad part is that she was not able to start a similar ministry that rescued young women from this lifestyle.
The huge upswing in social justice movements in the last decade has begun to reverse this trend as young girls and women are being rescued and given alternatives to lives on the street.
I found this book on a bookshelf in the house and saw that I had given it to my daughter for Christmas in 2003.
Another captivating missionary story! If you enjoy reading stories of God moving in foreign lands to save people and set them free this is one to add to your list. If you're a fan of Brother Yun, Brother Andrew and Corrie Ten Boom I'd recommend adding this one to your reading queue. If you're unsure if God still uses the gifts of the Spirit these days, or how practical and effective they may be in ministry these days, I'd recommend this book. I found it inspiring and refreshing. Great light reading!
Amazing book about a British woman who refused to let religion and the evils of the world stop her evangelism of the love of Jesus. Called to one of the darkest places in the world, Hong Kong's notorious Walled City, Ms Pullinger relays her experiences with The Lord and His Holy Spirit as they relentlessly pursue the hearts and minds of God's precious people trapped in drug addiction, prostitution, and gang violence. Reading this book will stir up your faith like never before AND convict the religious person's position on tongues and the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Highly recommended!
Total crap. I was asked to read this by a Christian friend. Endless tales of people being saved from drug addiction with prayer. One woman's heroic crusade of cleaning up Hong Kong. She did it all herself apparently by getting criminals to become Christian and speak in tongues. Sorry but this is mumbo jumbo.
This book was inspiring. Christians often think that we need to have these formal programs and to tread softly around people who might be seeking faith, but when the holy spirit is working, it's WORKING!
I have never been more inspired to live a spirit-filled, single-eyed life of anonymity and sacrifice.
Really fascinating story of the power of Christ in the darkest places.
This book has made such an impact. It is both encouraging and convicting and managed to capture my undivided attention from page one. An eye opening book filled with astounding truth and honesty.
If you're wondering if God is really at work in our world or whether Jesus still performs miracles, read this book! Truly inspiring.
Loved this book. Her storytelling is very clear and brings the characters and surroundings to life. All in all, a very inspiring read!
This is a fascinating story of a missionary in Hong Kong. There are some wild things going on, and it's inspiring.
One of the more amazing missionary stories I have ever heard or read.
It's as simple as this, I want to live her life.
Astounding, humbling, inspiring. Nothing else I can say.
This auto-biography describes her remarkable evolution from exposure to Christianity in London, to a young call to be a missionary, to total dependence on the Holy Spirit long before she knew anything about speaking in tongues.
The transformation of the heroin-dependent gang members by the power of Christ and this mysterious gift of tongues were so dramatic, fast, and genuine, that many others including policemen became believers.
Because of her direct influence on my friends in Hong Kong and their reports of miraculous healings and the attestation of Alpha Course’s Nicky Gumbel, I am a believer as well.
Brittish Missionary Jackie Pullinger is no stranger to the underbelly of China's dark side.
I have listened a few of Pullinger's messages but have never read any of her books.
This book was insightful not only about the power of prayer and engaging in spiritual warfare over the darkness, but also in terms of a global perspective (though admittedly it was written over 20 years ago and so things may have changed since then).
A great read for anyone who plans to be a missionary about what it truly entails to build relationships with locals.
