https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118464.Abraham_Lincoln
Abraham Lincoln was the sixteenth president of the United States.
He was born on a farm by this creek called Little Knob Creek.
He was born in the state of Kentucky on February 12, 1809.
Then, the Lincoln's moved to Indiana once Abe was 12.
When he was 15, the Lincoln's moved to Illinois.
In November when Abe was 51, he has been elected to become the next president of the United States.
Once he was president, he moved to the White House in Washington DC from Springfield, Illinois.
When Abe was 55, he was re-elected for president of the United States.
I used this book for my Noble Knights and Ladies of Liberty class. I thought that the book was interesting enough to hold the children's attention. The stories in it were uplifting and had a good moral. It didn't go into Mr. Lincoln's presidency or the Civil War very much at all. Which was okay with me. It really just focused on his childhood and what influenced him as a boy. It provided many questions that could be asked in a colloquium.
I was excited to read this historical fiction small chapter book for young readers, but was left disappointed. The story didn't have a good flow, and there were just enough facts to make it confusing as to what was true, or based on fact, or just a tall tale. Lincoln's father seemed especially different than anything I have ever read about him. Yeah I just didn't like it at all. There were a couple semi-interesting parts so I gave it an extra star though.
I liked it. He moved twice when he was a child. Once when there was a little pig stuck in mud and he had his best suit on he saved it. Another time he saved a turtle from the mud. He was really strong for his age and tall. He was very kind.
Genre- BiographyQuarter- 2
It was boss. Abe dies in the end. Also you realize that here mom also dies and one of her step sisters
AR Quiz No. 815 EN NonfictionAccelerated Reader Quiz Information IL: MG - BL: 3.5 - AR Pts: 3.0Accelerated Reader Quiz Type Information AR Quiz Types: RP
We read this book during Morning Group time this summer and learned more about the childhood of one of our favorite heroes.
It was ok. He rescued a dog.
I read this to the kids. It was okay - but not great. It showed how rural Abraham Lincoln's childhood was but in an outdated sort of way.
abraham lincoln is my favorite president. so any book about him is amazing!!
Every book I have read in this series has been a delight. Honest Abe was no exception.
I liked it ! he moved about three times!
Boys liked it-I liked the message of how important reading and studying are.

Very good kids book. I even learned a lot about Abraham Lincoln.
The book Abraham Lincoln by Augusta Stevenson tells the story about The famous American president.Which is a story about his life.Overall, I thought the book was pretty cool because i wanted to learn more about him.Ok so He was born in Kentucky in 1809 which was 207 years ago!Honestly, at some points in the book it got boring that's why i rated it a 4 star.Anyways he married a lady named mary todd speaking of which i actually read about her this quarter.But yea i liked this book still.
