https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/544251.The_Cask
Freeman Wills Crofts (1879-1957) was one of the most successful of the crime writers from the Golden Age of Detective Fiction, writing a book almost every year during his writing career.
The Cask was his first ever novel, written in 1920 when he found himself off work with a long illness.
Although it was written a long time ago (even for a Golden Age novel, it is one of the earliest I have come across), it has aged well.
Inspector Burnley is the English detective sent in search of the truth, working in Paris alongside Lefarge.
Both the detectives are intelligent, hard working and follow up the clues thoroughly.
The Cask (another one of this author's books that I've never heard of) is a novel written by Freeman Wills Crofts (again who I never heard of before I read one or two of his other novels) was published in 1920.
Our book begins with the cask arriving in London, the director of a Steam Navigation Company (whatever that is) sees that a shipment of wine they are expecting has come in and he sends a "reliable man" to the docks to make sure everything is how it should be.
The two detectives are painstaking in their investigation, then stop when they are satisfied that they have the culprit and sufficient evidence for a conviction.
The private detective also investigates to give the accused the best chance of a defence in court.
I don't think I would want to read more of them though.This is an early example of a very popular genre and later writers improved on it.
I think some reminders or recaps are helpful, but to have a new detective re-investigate the whole thing was a bit more repetition than I wanted.
Charmingly tedious mystery goes in for every Golden Age cliche.
The sheer amount of deduction is altogether impressive, but the book is weighed down by the fact that it is mostly very uninteresting.
This is my first Crofts, and apparently his trademark is the laboriously described railway timetable.
No character is more than sketched.
There is constant exposition, but none of it pertains to psychology in the least.
A quite silly book by any measure, which could do with a hundred pages less, and yet there are things in it which I quite enjoyed.
It is nearly a procedural, and the central mystery is unusually ingenious.
It does however, feel like what any policeman would have to do to pick up all the pieces of an investigation.If you are interested in the period and this style you will enjoy the book.
I persevered due to the fact that I've read another one and found it was of interest, and the end of this book was closer to the other book- more lively.Fave quote: La Touche has just gained an important clue!
If Mr. Crofts other books are like this one, I don't think I want to read them.
While well written, the book is sterile, reads like a diary almost.
All--and I mean ALL--the actions are minutely described.
Some characters who appeared at the beginning of the story, whose actions are described ad nauseam, completely vanish soon afterwards.
I immediately suspected the criminal, but it seemed the entirety of Scotland Yard and Sûreté were completely blinded by his appearance of honesty; not even the fact that one of the people involved in his alibi could not be traced raises their suspicions.
If I could give three and a half stars to this novel, I definitely would! An intriguing and entertaining golden age mystery with so many strands, twists and turns I was desparate to discover "who dunnit."
3.5 STARS!!!!!!! The very slow beginning almost made me quit reading, but I'm glad I kept on. It was not the best written or plotted Golden Age detective novel, but for it to be the author's first mystery, it wasn't too bad. The killer is fairly obvious from the time we are introduced, but watching the multiple officers and detectives figure it out was quite enjoyable. I wouldn't suggest this as your first foray in Golden Age mysteries, but it's definitely worth a read if you already have a history of enjoying them.
A slow start but a most interesting and detailed book, the ending was well written and the journey was with waiting for, it's worth remembering the age of the book and reading it with this in mind. We tell stories differently today so the style can seem odd. Don't worry about it and enjoy reading something different.
This was a good read. The plot is involved, but the clues are all there. Well worth the summer.
Synopsis: when a cask arrives from Paris it holds gold and a body, rather than a statue! Officers Burnley and Lafarge delve into the puzzle.
Great ReadGood mystery and fun to read mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmmm
Nicely plotted, old fashioned mystery.
Có thể coi The Cask là cuốn tiểu thuyết kinh điển về âm mưu ngụy tạo chứng cứ ngoại phạm.
Truyện thiên về thể loại trinh thám suy luận, quy trình điều tra của cảnh sát được mô tả tỉ mỉ, âm mưu ngụy tạo chứng cứ được gầy dựng kỳ công.
Nếu chưa từng làm trong ngành vận tải, chắc tác giả đã không viết được như vậy.Giọng văn không phải điểm mạnh, mang thiên hướng kể chuyện, không có nhiều yếu tố trữ tình hay tâm lý.
Tuy vậy, vụ án khá hấp dẫn, độc giả dễ bị cuốn hút vào mạch truyện.
It represented a departure from the typical mystery of that time - which invariably features a brilliant, charismatic private detective pulling rabbits out of hats and astonishing on-lookers with his omniscience.Crofts was an Irish railroad engineer and was successful and respected in his profession.
It's the grand-daddy of police procedurals, and shows the patient, often tedious work of the professionals who investigate murders for a living and who must provide not just the guilty party, but enough evidence to get a conviction.Like Agatha Christie, Crofts left romance and character development to others.
A genius book in the Golden Age, I believe.Not like many others thrillers, which are focused on the non-official detectives, this one spent a large amount of pages in describing how the investigation went on with the official forces, which makes it distintively significant from the rest of them (thrillers) that I have the opportunity to read.What I admire the most about this book, was the skim that the murderer used, which was the one that led the entirely The Scotland Yard and Surete into the wrong scent.
I found the description of the meticulous detective work in this novel interesting. Though it must be boring to do, it's probably accurate. The plot was quite convoluted, yet somehow I knew who the culprit was all along. The characters weren't very well filled out, but I still had a sense of the author's attitude toward each of them. The action is between Paris and England early in the 20th century.I read this book was written while the author was convalescing, as a past time, and was his first book but a success and turned his profession to writing.
If you can follow this plotline, then...... congratulations, you are one ruthless sleuthhound indeed. After too many clues, too many characters appearing from nowhere and too many changes in locale this tired old brain skipped over several chapters to the end. Your younger, more nimble mind could very well enjoy the challenge.
For a book that revolves around love and revenge, this is curiously colorless, mostly leaning toward being a police procedural. I knocked off a star for the sheer tedium; some ground is covered so often that the narrative feels threadbare. The author relies for mystification mostly on complex timetables and alibis, which are rehashed multiple times. Even so, the book had possibilities and wasn't unreadable, and the pace picked up about midway through the book. I will probably read another by this author, just to see whether he improves.
A woman is found dead in a shipping barrel. At first the mystery is her identity. Once that is established, it is pretty clear who did it but how was it done. His alibi seems unshakable. The detective work sorting out this puzzle is realistic and the descriptions of pre WW I Europe are engaging. I am glad to have discovered Crofts but I don't think this is his best work.
I have been giving the "Golden Age of Mystery" authors a go recently and all I can say is that I'd hardly consider anyone but Christie to be great. Another okay book with a rather obvious outcome that somehow still finds a way to disappoint. I don't regret reading this. It wasn't awful. But, there are better paced and surprising mystery books out there.
It does go into excrutiating detail at times and it is probably longer than it needs to be. Yet despite it's flaws I think it does deserve it's reputation of being a minor classic of the Detective genre. Early police procedural, with a good mystery, and more than a few interesting twists and turns
This is a fine puzzle story, so well wrought that you have to keep notes in order to have any chance at figuring out the plotlines, as they unravel thinner and thinner. It would be a perfect read for a weekend at a country lodge, where reading trumps conversation!
A brilliant and exciting story that initially seems quite straightforward, but turns out to have many twists and turns in the plot. It's fascinating to see the clever Police work near the end break down the case and expose the truth. Very enjoyable to read.
This is a pretty fair police procedural by an English author, who was well known in the 30's and 40's. I don't read too many of these because the focus is on procedure and I'm more interested in characterization than so many details that, after awhile , it just gets boring.
A decent mystery although a tad predictable. What I like most about older books is the history you get as a bonus. This one was published in 1920 and is full of descriptive passages of London and Paris back then.
Tedious with minimal character development and way WAY too much about railroad schedules. Good example of how not every mystery written during the Golden Age of Mysteries is golden. This is more rusty tin than anything else.
Enjoyed very much. Very clever with good plot and pacing.
Fair StorySlow read here but the story was good. I don't think it's worth a 2nd read. I will try another book by this author.
An enjoyable read with many of the Crofts trademarks:- an impeccable mystery plot- trains, ships and timetables- descriptions of how business was done in the early 20th century
