https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27533.Banker_to_the_Poor
Then after it was all over, I saw him just kind of hanging out all alone on the stage, and thought, "Maybe I could go and meet him and we could be best friends!" So I went down and said, "Mr. Muhammad Yunus, I just think you are the greatest guy in the whole world and I love you!!" Then he goes, "Oh, thank you!" and he HUGS ME!
That's the story of our friendship.So anyways, the reason why he is so cool is this: he is the guy who started the whole idea of micro credit, where he would give very small loans (like, $2) to poor women who would then start their own business, rise above generations and generations of poverty, and save the world.
After finishing this book, I wanted to shout, "Yeah! Preach it, brother!" Really cool book. Yunus won the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize for his decades of work. He is an academic who roles up his sleeves and produces something practical. His book should be embraced by Christians, conservatives, liberals, libertarians, and Dave Ramsey.
Highly recommended. A true must-read book.
This book provides an informative overview of Grameen Bank and micro-lending, but I think that its argument in favor of micro-lending would be stronger if Yunus spent more time addressing the arguments of critics.
As one example, I think that Yunus far too quickly rejects the arguments that poor people living in the developed world would not benefit from micro-lending in the same ways as the poor of Bangladesh.
I think that Yunus' notion that worldwide poverty can be entirely eradicated through micro-lending is way off base.
I read a 20+ pages report written by a group of MBA students from Columbia Business School and it was as concise, succinctly put as this 200+ pages book on Grameen Bank/microcredit.
The establishment of the bank and many other replicators might seem to be successful in helping these people to break the poverty cycle, however exploitative forces still persist within the parameter.
The mere statistically glorious achievements attained by Grameen Bank –with 90+% repayment rate, XX% borrowers managed to cross over the poverty line and whatnots – fail to quench the thirst I have in knowing what does microcredit really mean to the impoverished.
Dr. Yunus could prove it is possible to lift the poorest out of poverty. He could open eyes of bankers who stick with the idea that lending could happend only when collateral is secured. His experience ilustrates the private sector is not only for the greedy but also for social-minded individuals. I would recommend the book to anyone who wish for a poverty-free world.
کتاب از زبان موسس، یه پروژه اقتصادی بزرگ رو توصیف میکنه، بانکی تو بنگلادش ( و بعدا سایر جاها) که به فقیرترین اقشار جامعه وامهای خرد میده (اکثریت مطلق وامگیرندهها زنان روستایی با بازپرداخت بالای 90 درصد) تا اونا بتونن از درآمد بیشتری برخوردار باشن و گویا تا حدود زیادی هم موفق بوده.اما کتاب یه پراکندهگویی کلی از خاطرات و روندهای اداریه، نظم و ترتیب مشخصی نداره، توضیح نمیده مردم چطور از این وامهای کوچک استفاده میکنن تا شرایطشون بهتر شه، چطور وامگیرندهها سهامدارای عمده بانک هستند و ...تنها جایی که ا
کتاب از زبان موسس، یه پروژه اقتصادی بزرگ رو توصیف میکنه، بانکی تو بنگلادش ( و بعدا سایر جاها) که به 
Bila saya mengingat Yunus yang berbuat "baik" bagi kaum miskin di lingkungan sekitarnya, dan kemudian ditanya niatnya, dia toh menyatakan, "So one way, I try to kind of enlightened my frustration and agony by coming to the conclusion that I may not be useful as an economist, but I'm still a basic human being." Soal niat saya cuma inget cerita Kang Harry Roesli ketika ditanya kenapa dia membantu pengamen dan anak jalanan, jawabannya adalah mencegah mereka yang hidupnya keras di jalan dari menjadi kriminal di besarnya nanti.
Karena mencegah mereka menjadi kriminal adalah memberi lingkungan sosial yang leih baik bagi anaknya yang seumuran dengan pengamen dan anak jalanan itu.Ketika mendengar Yunus bicara tentang niatnya, saya berkesimpulan, berbuat baik itu pun bukan sebuah heroisme atau altruisme yang berlebihan.
This book has much in common with Three Cups of Tea: One Man's Mission to Promote Peace .
One School at a Time.
In it, Mohammad Yunus seeks to alleviate poverty one person at a time, with micro-loans.
It's a fascinating look at how the system works, and the enterprise's founding and history were equally absorbing.
Like Three Cups of Tea, however, the writing is just so-so.
Yunus comes across as a bit self-righteous and a bit pedantic, and the writing at times is repetitive.
Overall it's an interesting and valuable book, though, and I was very glad that I'd read it.
3.5/5 What an uplifting story ! Hats off to Muhammad Yunus.कौन कहता है आसमां में सुराख नहीं हो सकता, एक पतथर तो तबियत से उछालो यारोंAmidst his disastrous campaign that for the 2014 Lok Sabha campaign Rahul Gandhi said something profound amidst all the nonsense :-"A rising tide raises all boats, but you need a boat to rise with the tide. What does he who does not have a boat do ?"This is the story of Nobel Laureate Yunus's Grameen Bank. The Grameen bank provides collateral-free loans to those who
What does he who does not have a boat do ?"This is the story of Nobel Laureate Yunus's Grameen Bank.
It has also pulled millions of people out of abject poverty by giving them the means to be self-employed.
And it has also inspired many others in other countries to follow its model which have been largely successful too.Having said that, I think Yunus over-rates self-employment like Mahatma Gandhi and our own MNREGA devised by Congress-led UPA.
It can pull people out of poverty but it is not the complete solution for prosperity.
For those unfamiliar with the term, microfinance occurs when banks or nonprofit organizations loan small amounts to the poor, helping them to use these miniscule amounts of capital to begin income-generating endeavors.Muhammad Yunus, founder of Grameen Bank and author of Banker to the Poor, observed that the only thing the poor lacked was opportunity.He writes, “When you hold the world in your palm and inspect it only from a bird’s eye view, you tend to become arrogant – you do not realize that things get blurred when seen from an enormous distance.
Yunus figured that if he could loan these slight sums at low interest rates, the poor could enjoy selling the products of their labor on the open market, thus creating economic capital and a trail out of poverty.Charity, on the other hand, gives freely without expectation of return.
Micro-lending means lending loans to extremely poor people so that they can use that credit to rise above the poverty line.
“We have been made to believe that the poor are not to be trusted with credit -they are not creditworthy.
But are banks peopleworthy?” Yunus built the Grameen movement because of his trust on people.
The people he focused on were socially and financially handicapped women living in constant misery.
He is a social revolutionary AND also a believer of the fundamentals of capitalism.Overall, this book explains the fundamentals of micro-credit and the Grameen journey in an eloquent manner.
The closest thing I've seen is the way a friend of mine described his AmeriCorps program in the early 2000s, where he started a mentoring program for high school students that really took off.
Anyways - I think building strong organizations like Grameen, that are really accountable to their clients and are there, day after day, not only exhorting but modeling truly admirable behavior, is absolutely key to the elimination of poverty worldwide.
One-time interventions don't do it, and there has to be trust and accountability the whole way through.
Yunus would have made a great candidate for a Nobel in Economics.
Unlike the theoretical university researchers who dominate the list today, Yunus’s defining traits are a supremely practical and field oriented.
And like all pioneers his success comes from questioning the absolute fundamentals- why need collateral for credit?
But he is also aware that the success of his experiments have been aided by his being ‘elite’.
It’s been a long learning curve for him.
His key learnings include ‘Credit is a human right’ and ‘western style welfare states can actually promote complacency among people and prevent them aiming at self-sufficiency’.
In all a great and insightful read.
لم أتوقع إنهاء كتاب بالانكليزية بهذه السرعة، فلغته سهلة وأسلوبه روائي أكثر منه إلى الأكاديمي.الكتاب يحمل أفكارا غير مسبوقة (بالنسبة إلي على الأقل) وهو مما قد يسبب عادة انقلابات في المفاهيم، الأمر الذي لا يرغبه البعض. قد يبدو عنوانه ومضمونه اقتصاديا، لكنه يتعداه.علينا أن نثق بمن ندعي مساعدتهم بدل من التعالي عليهم بنظريات محنطة في الكتب وفي رؤوسنا، فحل المشاكل لا يتأتى في الجامعات، فقط، عليك أن تتنازل عن غرورك وترتقي إلى حل المشكلات عن قرب.الكتاب بالانكليزية، ولا أدري إن اهتم أحدهم بترجمته، أنا مهتم بكل حال.
I LOVED THIS BOOK -- six stars. It tells the story of Grameen and microcredit from the beginning until now.Forget theories, classrooms, and endless postulating. Acting on a desire to help others will go so much further than all of aggrandized theories and reticent intentions.Muhammad Yunus changed the world with a simple idea spurned from his moral sense.Simple goodwill is undervalued.
This is an autobiography of a great man Mohammed Yunus who is also a recipient of Nobel Peace Prize. This is a story of a miraculous work done by Dr Yunus for the upliftment of downtrodden Bangladeshis through his exceptionally creative Grameen Bank which was a path breaking experiment.  The book also gives glimpses of the contemporary rural society of Bangladesh.
La escritura/traducción no son increíbles pero lo grandioso de este libro es la historia que cuenta. Me hizo recuperar mi espíritu juvenil de "quiero salvar el mundo". Sólo necesito poner manos a la obra antes de que ese espíritu se vuelva a oxidar en mí
Yunus is a God among men.
Muhammad Yunus left his life in America in the 1970s and moved to Bangladesh and set a model of how poverty can be lifted through free market banking initiative called Grameen Bank.
The book also brings about the awful lending policies of most banks (which continue to date) and global corporations like World Bank.
He advocates a ‘truly’ free market banking and financial sector that allows self-employed poor to access small loans, Yunus also asks the nations to measure their progress by per capita income of the bottom 25% of the population and not overall per-capita.
As kids, we once always dream about growing up and changing the world for better.
This book provides a real-life example of how one man's wish to lift the poorest out of the poverty and that too, not by doing something for them but rather making it possible for them to do something for themselves, can change lives of so many people.
As he mentions in the book, We need to learn from the real world.
And the real world is just outside the classrooms.
May we find our courage, and may we have more like him!
An eye opener on schemes for poverty reduction, Government thinking and mentality of funding organisations.
Yunus is right, somehow we treat poor like they are children ; they dont have knowledge, wisdom or skill to improve their lifestyle.
Overgeneralization of a class lead to misunderstanding and thus faulty policies.
Second thing i liked in this book is the unapologetic nature of the author in criticizing academicians.
Yes, academicians should be able to offer critique on the policies based on firsthand data and experience, instead of just writing academic papers.
The book sounds like author is trying to promote himself, but he has worth.
Really interesting book overall. At times I felt like Yunus was too excited and dedicated about the Grameen Bank to be honest about the challenges of micro lending (he continuously seemed to rush past those sections or somewhat glossing them), but it was still really interesting/inspiring to see how he structured the bank around community ownership and accountability. I didn’t agree with some of his views on governments not funding public goods, but definitely worth the read and I look forward to reading more on the subject.
An inspiration.
Definitely sets the industry standard for microfinance sector. Teaches readers the founder's motivation to start the enterprise + hardships he went through.
Summary: Yunus' personal account of developing micro-lending and the Grameen Bank to help lift the rural poor out of poverty by providing the small loans they needed to develop their own small businesses.How often does it happen that a person has an epiphany, a revelatory moment that changes their lives?
What is clear however is that Yunus developed a model of micro-lending to the poorest of the poor, built on belief in their initiative and trust that they will repay, that has contributed to growing self-sufficiency for many individuals and economic development in many settings of poverty with lessons applicable throughout the world.
A brilliant read in perspective of economy and development. How man and society, by and large, is hinged onto the existence of credit and the need for accessibility of it has been beautifully explored. This book should be a must read in any sociology and economy syllabus to understand and build connections as to how economics cannot be dissociated from human behaviour as proposed by Richard H Thaler.
Besarnya pengaruh bank dan individu ini sehingga tertubuh beratus-ratus brach bank-nya di seluruh dunia, sama ada directly under Grameen atau mengambil model perbankan-nya.
Hal ini(repayment) bukan sahaja di Bangladesh, tetapi juga di US dan tempat lain.Even Malaysia(Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia) mengambil model Bank ini.Juga dalam ini, Yunus mencanangkan idea "social business" berbanding "Profit Maximising Business".
Contoh, ada kes yang berlaku di India dan Mexico(perenggan ini melalui wiki)--Ada beberapa aspek yang boleh di sentuh menarik di sini1) konsep group untuk Ambil loan.
Sejak ada group ini, aku ada kawan yang support dan take care of each other.
Developed nations had problems starting this kind of approach because welfare often prevents them from making their own money (by disallowing it or deducting what they make from their welfare) and by requiring all kinds of certifications, paperwork, and extraneous expense when starting a business.I like a lot of what Yunus has to say, although I think he gets a little off sometimes.
I'm also a bit surprised to hear him claim that if we eliminated poverty there wouldn't be extreme business cycle fluctuations anymore, and his experience with helping start microcredit programs in developed countries supported some belief that some poor don't want to help themselves, even though he refused to believe it (better to phrase it as finding the ones who do and reaching them).
everything changes when Bangladeshi people raise up against the Pakistani army asking for independence and all hell breaks loose, at which time Yunus shines as one of the leaders of the Bengali workers/students in the states as they lobbied and demonstrated in Washington to build support for their country against Pakistan.returning to Bangladesh after the independence with his American wife, his work to serve his society is really impressive.
the book tells the tale of his work to help the poor, how he started and developed his ideas of how to best assist the really poor villagers to have a more human and decent lives.
