https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114162.Secrets_of_a_Summer_Night
4.5 I love you Dammit Stars***********Spoilers********** “You…you mustn’t stare at me like that.” Soft as the murmur was, he caught it. “With you here, nothing else is worth looking at.” -Annabelle and SimonI love Lisa Kleypas! Now a little while back I bought the whole Hathaways series for 4.00 and it was my first taste of Lisa Kleypas. I fell madly in love with all the Hathaways and when I finished that series I went to goodreads to find more books by LK to read. That was when I found out that
“With you here, nothing else is worth looking at.” -Annabelle and SimonI love Lisa Kleypas!
I fell madly in love with all the Hathaways and when I finished that series I went to goodreads to find more books by LK to read.
Of course I went out to every book store I know and found the whole Wallflowers series for a 1.00 each.
Annabelle and Simon's story was so very sweet.
Beyond forever.” “I love you more,”-Simon and AnnabelleSimon and Annabelle's relationship was a slow burn since at first she would snub him.
Simon was so sweet to Annabelle after they were married.
The first time I read this book (in 2012) I didn't appreciate it. I'd just plowed through a bunch of historical romances and this one blended in with the crowd.OMG I WAS SO WRONG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This book is magic. I loved it. A LOT. The push/pull between the two main characters was masterfully done. The tension of Annabelle's circumstances (and Simon's ignorance of her circumstances) was so perfect. I loved both of these characters so much. The perfect blend of tragedy, suspense, humor, romance. This book is (and has) everything. It's basically flawless.
Secrets of A Summer Night had me hooked from the very start, enraptured me in a way that I never imagined, and I found myself having a hard time putting it down.I loved Simon Hunt!
He was attracted to Annabelle since the first time he laid eyes on her and he couldn’t get her out of his mind.
Despite her lack of dowry, the way she ignored Simon’s offer was a reflection of the value she placed on herself.It was so sweet seeing Simon taking care of Annabelle in a time of need.
I love a strong, independent, self-made hero, who doesn't spend his time worrying about what others think.
I felt I could like this cold, aristocratic man when he risked his life to save Simon who was socially beneath him and was protective about him against a 'fortune-hunting adventuress,' which was how he saw Annabelle.
I was glad that Annabelle finally came around, although I wished it was a little bit sooner.This is my second favorite Wallflower (after Devil in Winter) because I loved the fact that Simon was a man who set himself on a course, and never gave up.
I read it during a summer night. I swooned.I wrote a review.Oops.
I've loved so many of her books, and her heroes are some of my all time favorite romance heroes (Zachary Bronson, Jack Devlin, Derek Craven)--now I can add one more to the list--the deliciously sexy Simon Hunt (be still my heart)!
This book was just filled with sexual tension, and had me on the edge, just wondering when (and how) Annabelle was going to give in to the temptation that was Simon.
He wanted Annabelle and he was going to have her!What else did I love?
“Having regrets is the only sign that you’ve done anything interesting with your life.”  The first book in the Wallflower series, Secrets of a Summer Night is about Annabelle, a beautiful woman searching for a husband, but her family’s financial troubles prevent this.
Her relationship with Hunt was a hate to love kind of story where over time the two get to know each other and fall in love, rather than love at first sight and it worked for me.Beautifully written, I cannot wait to read the rest of the Wallflower books (disclaimer I’ve read Devil in Winter and Again the Magic, but I still really want to read the other two books).
I found it much better written and engaging than her latest historical offerings, which I recently read, though I must also admit I enjoyed Secrets of a Summer Night more as a fun series set-up than for the romance itself.Long story short, Annabelle Payton is a genteel but destitute beauty who needs to marry for money, quickly.
The writing flowed, there were some nice touches of humour and Kleypas's ability to convey the couple's chemistry and sensuality always top rate, if here somehow disjointed from the emotional progression.
Finally, FINALLY, a Lisa Kleypas book that I actually like!
I'm not broken after all!I was beginning to think that perhaps I was the only person on earth to hate Lisa Kleypas.
However, I already owned Secrets of a Summer Night so I figured I would try one more time.
#bathtubbookAnd I'm soooo happy that I gave this one a try.
This was a great story with a complex H and h, a great set of side characters, and a romance that developed slowly over time.
I think I found the first Kleypas series I can get behind.
This is my kind of leisure reading, a good historical romance, well written with charming characters and a lot of witty dialogue. I very much enjoyed the romance between the two main characters and loved the friendship between the four Wallflowers. The story was really entertaining and full of drama. Loved it:)I am looking forward now to the rest of the series!
Written April 5, 20154 Stars - Charming, steamy and much chuckling fun. These determined 'Wallflowers' are women to admireYet another amusing 'Wallflowers' HR as audiobook (11 hrs) narrated by always excellent Rosalyn Landor. (You get this one for just $7 incl. the e-book / kindle at Amazon right now.)  Well done, well narrated, very entertaining HRI liked the of many readers so much beloved Devil in Winter (#3 - 3.9 stars) some weeks ago and this series instalment was just as well written, funn
But without wealth, assets, other than a pretty face, in her bride coffin it is quite hopeless.Mr. Simon Hunt is a new player in the ballrooms that has an "good eye" (an lust..) for Annabelle.
Nevertheless maybe not the "right" kind of admirer for a well born young lady like Annabelle.
There was no choice to be made between safety and disaster.’***********************************************************What I maybe like most about this book is that our heroine here isn't always a good & nice girl.
Though it's fun, I actually like the privilege to avoid having to face another admirable good-hearted young historical heroine occasionally.
5+ stars – Historical RomanceThis is a great start to a fun, dazzlingly romantic series about four young ladies with very different personalities and backgrounds entering society who form a deep bond of friendship that grounds them as they traverse the rocky course of relationships and husband hunting in stuffy Victorian era England.Beautiful Annabelle Peyton is determined to find a wealthy suitor with a high position in society to wed in order to save her family from financial ruin.
It’s a wonderful start to a truly amazing series!
I've put off reading this series for so long and I have no idea why!
I read the Hathaway books and thought nothing in the HR world could compare.
Am I questioning my fierce love of the Hathaway clan?
Hell no!
Cam's a delicious bit of man and remains to this day one of my favorite book boyfriends.That being said, I'm adding Simon Hunt to that list.
Oh hell yes!
Annabelle was a fantastic match for him and I loved the give and take of their relationship until they finally both (thank you, baby Jesus!) gave in and experienced the wonderful.
I look forward to reading the rest of this series.
De los que te enganchan desde el principio y que son un placer leer.Primer libro leído de Kleipas. Ya era hora...
This time, I have read the first book in Lisa Kleypas’ “Wallflower” series called “Secrets of a Summer Night” and it is surely full of drama, thrills and hot romance that will surely put any romance fan in a soothing mood!Annabelle Peyton, well known for being a wallflower in London society, vows to seek a worthy husband to cover her family’s debt since she does not have a dowry that would make her worthy in any nobleman’s eyes.
I liked this one, a lot. Simon, a self-made man. Born the son of a butcher, he has worked hard to make his money and his place in society. OK, he will never be a nobleman but, honestly, who would want to be. But status matters to some ... and it matters to Annabelle. She needs to marry and marry well. Her family's finances are dwindling fast. He did not strike her as a trustworthy man ... in fact, for all his elegant clothes and polished appearance, he didn't seem quite civilised.He was the kind
I liked this one, a lot.
Simon, a self-made man.
But status matters to some ...
and it matters to Annabelle.
He did not strike her as a trustworthy man ...
in fact, for all his elegant clothes and polished appearance, he didn't seem quite civilised.He was the kind of man that a well-bred woman would never want to be alone with.
I really liked Simon.
He wasn't afraid pursue Annabelle and show his feeling for her.
I suppose there was no real drama in this book, like there was in the last couple of Historicals I read.
My Review::This was a very easy, enjoyable read and though it seemed to drag in the beginning, I did learn things about class distinction that I had not been aware of.I am adding Simon Hunt to my rapidly growing list of favorite heroes, but I can't tell you how many times I wanted to kick Annabelle to the curb.
I loved that they were not willing to sit idly by while life moved on without them, and their witty insights and plottings made this a fun read.Simon Hunt should be given Sainthood for the amount of patience he showed while waiting for Annabelle to come to her senses and realize that he wasn't the bottom of the barrel.
Miss Annabelle Payton, Miss Lillian Bowman, Miss Evangeline Jenner and Miss Daisy Bowman are regular sights at the peripheral of a ballroom. With each young lady having oddities and foibles that make them untenable to the bachelors of the ton. However, they strike up an unlikely friendship each vowing to help the others out to find a husband by means fair and foul. With the beautiful and spirited Annabelle being the first...Miss Annabelle Payton’s family are on the knife edge of poverty, to sto
The love story between these two was very passionate and there were some hot sex scenes in the book (one in a linen closet, which is most definately my favourite!) which added nicely to the couples growing affection for each other.I also liked the introduction to the other Wallflowers, each having their own very distinct personalities and I look forward to reading Lillian’s book next.
LK gets her setting very well with enough detail to keep it interesting but not bogging you down in details about that historical period.I have read this book many times and it is one of my favourite series a must read for those who love romance, especially Historical Romance.
Historical romances are like my "Chicken Soup for the Soul." They just make me feel better. When my daughter was younger and would get sick and stay home from school, we would watch Pride and Prejudice - in our P.J.'s, with chocolate. And, I'm not talking about the Keira Knightly version - I mean the six-hour A&E Colin Firth one. It took all day, but it was comforting. Mr. Darcy makes everything better...This book is like that. No matter what's going on, it made me smile. The characters are
Historical romances are like my "Chicken Soup for the Soul." They just make me feel better.
When my daughter was younger and would get sick and stay home from school, we would watch Pride and Prejudice - in our P.J.'s, with chocolate.
And, I'm not talking about the Keira Knightly version - I mean the six-hour A&E Colin Firth one.
It took all day, but it was comforting.
Mr. Darcy makes everything better...This book is like that.
No matter what's going on, it made me smile.
The characters are adorable, the humor is great, and the romance is swoon-worthy.
Very good chicken soup!
Plan on reading more by the author:  Sure am!Synopsis in one sentence or slightly more: Annabelle's family is basically destitute and she conspires with her wallflower friends to trap a member of the peer but instead end up with the utterly delectable Simon who is a man of trade (damn, how is that for a run on sentence?).Heroine: Annabelle.
Read the book and you will understand this part:Hero: Simon.
Read this book for Simon if nothing else.
Annabelle never really became a heroine I would be interested in reading about nor one I liked.
★★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) Good Gravy Beans...this book is good.
I've been having a few major problems with my house remodel, and this book - always my favorite of the Wallflower series, saved my sanity!
I popped this book in my ears b/c it was loaded on my iPod and it has helped me get through a rough couple of days.
Love how Simon is attracted to Annabelle at the beginning, and pursues her...but also comes to truly love her.
Love how Annabelle resists him (she's a product of her era), but slowly comes to deeply love him.
Awesome narrator enhanced the story.I love this series and was excited to try out the audio version. The narrator does a fabulous job and I never struggled to decipher which character was talking. This is the first book in the series and my second favourite but only by a smidge. I love the rough around the edges, Simon Hunt. I don't particularly enjoy seeing the class distinction and resulting snobbery. I will definitely be listening to the rest of the series in the future.
Los personaje son otro plus, las chicas florero Lillian, Evie, Daisy, incluida la protagonista tiene su interés y le dan mucha vida a la novela más por eso de no centrarse exclusivamente en los protagonistas; así también conoceremos a Lord Westcliff, avanzándonos para conocerlo de pleno en el siguiente libro.De los personajes principales tanto Annabelle como Simon no puedo ponerles ninguna pega, me gustó mucho como va surgiendo su relación eso sí, en mi opinión acaba muy pronto y nos deja bastante páginas en las que teniendo la relación hecha ya poca emoción podemos tener.
An impoverished heroine who does not know what she wants. A determined hero who wants her... as a mistress. A psychotic son-of-a-bitch who lusts after the heroine and is sleeping with the heroine's mother.  (WTF!!!!) Debates about how men were superior to women. Drama about belonging to a lower class. And a predictable ending.Yeah, in short, this book was barely okay. There was virtually no character development, man. I did not like the hero, the heroine and most of the characters here (except for Evie and Daisy; I only liked Lillian when she's giving Marcus a well-deserved setdown). Ugh.
¿Por qué, señor, por qué? ¿Por qué he tardado tanto en leer esta joyita? Creo que mentalmente estaba esperando que lo reeditaran para tenerlo en papel, así que ¡chica lista yo! :D Simon Hunt ya está en el grupito de protas masculinos de Lisa Kleypas que tienen mi corazón. Demasié <3
OMG SUCH FUN! The female friendship between the 'wallflowers' is 10/10!
Initially, the story had a much lighter feel than the author's other books I had read to date, with the relationship between the Wallflowers seeming a little like chick-lit (not exactly my favorite genre) in a historical setting.
It may have taken a little while to learn about Simon's character, but once I did, I totally fell for him just like nearly every other Lisa Kleypas hero I've read to date.The four Wallflower girls, Annabelle, Lillian, Daisy and Evie have an interesting relationship dynamic and the latter three are all good secondary characters.
Secrets of a Summer Night is the first book in this series and on the face of it, the plot is simple and straightforward and yet there are meaningful layers and sub-plots to this HR.
Prejudice, social conditioning and family expectations exert enormous pressure to marry well (into both money and title) and our hero and heroine will need to navigate the pitfalls of society, expectations (especially gender expectations) and prejudice, as well as personal issues, to find their HEA.
Secrets of a Summer Night has interesting and well paced plot, well developed characters with distinct voices and personalities, romance, passion, self-discovery and strong female friendship and support.
The only thing she can offer is a title, but even then no one wants to marry a girl with no dowry, even if she is very very very pretty.I wasn’t sure I was going to like Annabelle.
It was really hard for me to grasp this concept, but Lisa does a very good job in explaining how hard it would be for a traditional title girl to marry below her class.The whole book is about Simon hunting for Annabelle and I LOVED IT!
Rereading it again tho reminded me of the couple and the story, and also the fact that I really didn't like the h, except at the end.Annabelle: I get that she's in a bad situation, I get that she's been brought up a certain way, but I still think she's shallow and narrow minded and prejudiced.
I would have liked a lot more H/h development, but as I reread these earlier works, I get the feeling this is just the way things were written back then and the love story shouldn't take more than 40-50% of the book.
