https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7896345-the-gathering
I did not expect to like The Gathering after being very underwhelmed by Kelley Armstrong's first YA trilogy - Darkest Powers.
Was very sick of them in all three Darkest Powers books.4) Teen characters and romances - Kelley Armstrong is one of a very few YA authors who refuse to promote stalker/doormat relationships based on ANGST.
The narrator of this novel - Maya - is a strong young woman and her relationship with her hot love interest is well-balanced, even when complicated.The biggest flaw of The Gathering comes from the author's choice of the trilogy's plot structure.
I have a confession to make... here goes. So, anyone who knows me at all on goodreads will know that I have a few friends whose reviews I rely on without question. If they say a book is better than chocolate, orgasms and Melina Marchetta combined, even if I've never heard of it, I will believe them. Except... I didn't. I doubted, it's true, I doubted. I have had this book on my shelf since not long after it's release in April last year and I have been putting if off and putting it off. Everytim
Because while my love for dystopias keeps me reading trash in search of that one book that will prove authors still know how to do it well, my love for young adult paranormal novels up and left shortly after the publication of the Twilight series.
I thought my inability to enjoy Unearthly - another book that all my friends' loved - was proof that I was doomed to dislike young adult paranormal books forever.
A love story where both the guy and the girl have personalities and aren't abusive?
I must be dreaming!This is just so much better written than the majority of young adult paranormal novels.
I do not read a lot of paranormal fantasy novels because (forgive me for being too honest), I find most of them a bit corny and the romance often cheesy but this particular book combines several elements-the setting (a really small secluded forest town in Canada that specializes in medical research), the sprinkle of science fiction and mythology and the genuine teen feel to the novel including the realistic romance, dialogues and writing making this a very refreshing read.
I settled for three stars because besides the cliffhanger, the last twenty percent of the story seemed a bit jumbled up, as if the missing actions during the significant first portion of the novel were all crammed up in the last few pages of the book.
Not much happens until after 50% into the story, but it’s still easy to stay focused on the character-focused book.
The small town setting is almost a character in itself, and there are different animals that throw out hints about the main character’s hidden abilities.
While not action filled, it stills stays interesting but not much actually happens – the book seems to be one long set-up until the ending where it sorts of abruptly cuts off during their next step.Maya is unique with her abilities and I’m not sure exactly everything she can do – but she explores some of her heritage and Native American origins in this one.
And Rafe is her Derek (though he may actually be Clay to her Elena), an outsider/outcast who's struggling to care for his brother sister, Annie.I loved Maya's parents.
He's far more likeable than Rafe and I got the impression he might be interested in dating Maya but as I said before, I might be reading too much into his actions.(view spoiler)[I have many questions about what will happen next.
It's going to be tough to come up with a cover story about the way the fire spread and the strange people with guns pretending to be rescue workers but I think it will be entertaining to see "them" try.
Everyone can do that?The town was built by the totally-not suspicious St. Clouds and has a set-up straight out of a Stephen King horror novel - but again, totes legit.Maya's friend, Serena, died "drowning" the previous year in a lake that should be called a kiddie pool, but even though Serena was a top notch swimmer, no one bats an eye.
There is nothing inherently wrong with Maya's character (I love how she's Native with Native culture) or Daniel or Rafe or the setup of the town or the mysterious death of Serena.
She fleshed out the first 3/4 of the book because she didn't have an idea of where she wants to go, then the hastily-thrown-together-before-deadline ending makes no sense.I'm sorry, is there an actual plot to this book?
Ok, it's the first book in the series, and there needs to be introductions made, but I swear the first 2/3rds of the book was an introduction to Maya, her family, and her adopted past, her friend Serena's tragic accident, her mixed feelings and friendship with Daniel, and her burgeoning romance with the school poseu---I mean Rafe.
75% through the book and I still had no idea what the plot is supposed to be.We hear the word "skinwalker" like twice in the first half.
My history with Kelley Armstrong is a long and solid one.I've read all her books in the Underworld series and Elena and Clay are one of my (few) most beloved couples in UF.
There's always an animalistic taste to Armstrong's books when she deals with shapeshifters that I find extremely enticing.
I wish Kelley Armstrong had just stuck to adult urban fantasy because, to me, it definitely feels like she's trying to milk the YA cash cow by exploiting some trite paranormal YA tropes.For this review and more follow The Nocturnal Library.
It’s fascinating to experience how she views the St. Cloud corporation, almost like a benevolent trustworthy entity that she needs to defend.When Maya’s best friend Serena dies under mysterious circumstances, Maya vows to figure out what happened.
Maya can tell that Rafe is never quite sincere about anything, and he seems to be a serial flirter, but she’s drawn to him anyway.Here is my biggest problem with this book: at my count, there are fifteen conflicts/mysteries that are set up in the course of these pages, and not a single one of them is solved.
(hide spoiler)] At any rate, the dysfunctional parent thing is wearing a little thin, so this was a nice change.2) Armstrong is a great storyteller.
I'm really hoping that Armstrong pulls a switcheroo, and Maya ends up with Daniel.
(view spoiler)[ Honestly, I didn't feel like they had a very good grasp of the situation by the end of the book.
(hide spoiler)] I would almost recommend staying away from the previous books in this world because you have too much information to plod along with these guys if you do.3) One of the least exciting cliffhangers (if that's what it was supposed to be) I've ever read.
I was a bit hesitant to pick up this book because I did not enjoy her Darkest Powers series as much as her adult series.I was pleasantly surprised by this book.
Salmon Creek is home to about 200 residents who all work in mysterious research jobs for the St. Cloud Corporation.
For some pictures of the area click here.I really liked Maya’s character.
I love how the author slowly builds up Maya’s abilities.
The reader learns about Maya’s powers at the same time as Maya.
Rafe, the resident bad boy, seems to have a lot of surprises and secrets.The inclusion of the cabals from Armstrong’s adult series was genius.
Since I loved the Darkest Powers trilogy so very much, the realization that was already bored and did not enjoy myself particularly hit me rather unexpectedly when I started flipping forward around page 190. Certainly my heavy cold with a nasty headache included in the package has to carry part of my inability to focus on the supposedly unnerving small-town-story, but I really do not care enough about the characters' fate to prove this theory under stabilized conditions later. So. After 194 pages I leave Salmon Creek behind without a trace of regret. Good bye, Cougar Girl.
So when I read a YA novel I always ask myself, 'am I jealous?' The answer for this one is yes.
Two reasons, there are books we read for entertainment, and books we read for its depth.
Its a YA novel so the description is not grand because we don't want to bore our teens to death.
Still the romance feels like background noise in comparison to the action and danger surrounding the teens.All this is just a impression, I didn't go into details about the story because it is a beta, a lot could change.
Slow and underdeveloped start to new trilogy, 2.5 starsIn Kelley Armstrong's THE GATHERING, Maya Delaney lives in a small medical research town on Vancouver Island.
After really enjoying Kelley Armstrong's first YA trilogy (Darkest Powers), I was excited to delve into this new series.
While parts of the mythology were new, prior readers of her Darkest Powers series will know immediately what's happening to Maya and who the villains will be.
The plot itself did not move forward much at all, and the book finished with a cliffhanger that didn't even feel like one.
In this book, we follow Maya, a sixteen-year-old who is just living her life in the small town she lives in along with her family and friends.
And it all centers around the town, the mysterious new guy, Rafe; and Maya.Kelley Armstrong has a way of enticing me into her books.
They leave you guessing and wanting more in the next book.Maya and the other characters were actually good.
I wouldn't say they're the best side characters, but good enough that I liked them.And to top it all off, I liked how the setting was in a small town in Canada.
It's the simple things in life that are enjoyable, even small towns.
I really liked this book for several reasons. First, I should say that I listened to the audiobook and the narrator was fantastic! The opening scene was scary and interesting. Loved the new take on shifters. The end was left open for a sequel which I will pick up as soon as I can. Daniel was my favorite character though Rafe was interesting too. Love the three legged Fitz!
She is also a lovely women who sent me a signed copy of one of her books for my SB&H (Spina Bifida Association) raffle * The story grabs your attention from the 1st chapter and doesn't let go until the very last page * Maya's parents are AWESOME -- this is the first YA book I have read where the parents aren't self-involved, clueless douche bags - Thank you Kelley for this I will buy and read all your books * Intriguing mysterious story with lots of twists and turns * Wonderfully dry fun dialogue -- it was hard to pick just a few good quotes for this review * Lots of Cougars and I don't mean old chicks like me, actual Cougars (and for you Americans otherwise known as Mountain Lions).

Awww... I hope Derek and Chloe comes back...
Well, so Seth is one out of the few people who actually read my reviews.
I don't know why I've been postponing it for so long (besides the fact that it was stuck in Seth's butt).
...) Now, when I first started reading The Summoning (Darkest Powers #1), I wasn't crazy about it.
But now I have faith in Kelley Armstrong to develop an exciting plot and a good romance––and The Gathering is quite a strong beginning; it gives me hope that this series will turn out amazing.I'm always nervous about spin-offs, because at times it's really just the same story told all over again, but with different characters.
Armstrong introduces us to a new cast of characters and a small town setting on the edge of nowhere, where a medical research facility sets the stage for tons of mystery.I have to say that I am really fond of the characters in this book.
I love her personality and her interactions with her dad, no matter how small, were some of my favorite moments in this book.
THE GATHERING is a fantastic start to a series that I have a feeling is going to be just as great as The Darkest Powers Trilogy.

Spoilers below...1) It's categorized as YA but it reads like a upper middle grade book.
Turns out Maya has held a grudge against Hayley for five years because Hayley copied off her math homework in 8th Grade.
I can tell because they do math homework together and Maya doesn't seem worried.
5) The end is supposed to be exciting and its not.
Worst of all, because there is essentially no plot to this book (like seriously, no plot) there isn't any resolution.
Maya, an orphan teenager lives happily in the tiny town of Falls, British Columbia.
She’s wonderfully happy, but not until tragedy strikes near her heart and she starts to uncover the secrets that her tiny town has kept hidden from the teenagers.I’m always wary when a cover of a book says “New York Times Best-Selling Author” splashed on the front.
I have the pasta stain to prove it!) I love Daniel.
I disliked how Maya denies him in the beginning, then turns right around and falls for him anyway.
And I love that you’re also Canadian.
Daniel is the childhood best friend that has been there since day one and Rafe is the hot new bad boy in town.
The bulk of the story takes place in a tiny town—population 200 or so—in the middle of a forest with no paved roads leading to it.
Nothing is off limit in this new series, so hold on paranormal fans!!Sexual Content: There's some heavy make out scenes, sexual humor, some talk about how far Maya's “gone”, and a date-rape drug slipped in.Rating – 4/5 Great!
“I want you to have big dreams, big goals. I want you to strive to achieve them. But I don't want to see you beating yourself up every time you make a mistake.” If I were to list the most important parts of any book, it would look like this: A strong opening, a good introduction to the plot and the characters, a good twist, and a climax. The Gathering managed to tick off half an item off that list: a good introduction to the characters. (Note: Add an extra point for engaging writing.) The chara
If I were to list the most important parts of any book, it would look like this: A strong opening, a good introduction to the plot and the characters, a good twist, and a climax.
At the end of every introduction (or the first few chapters) you get to the point where you think 'good, now we can get on with the story' (and if you're not like me, you don't say out loud on the bus that "my body is ready".)The problem with The Gathering is that this point comes somewhere around the last pages.
That kind of long-term familiarity can be constraining, but it can also be comforting and we see both aspects in the story.So a good setup, strong main character, interesting cast, and a story that built up with a backdrop of normal teen anxiety in a way that felt completely natural and naturally engaging.Okay, so the thing that drove this down a whole star for me was how after Maya found out her true heritage (yeah, like that's a spoiler), Armstrong stepped in multiple times to ensure she didn't talk to anybody but her original source of information.
:D ..Let me tell you guys!We all DP Fans miss Chloe, but I'm sure you will love Maya ;DChloe is smart innocent which we love.
and a little pitiful which made I felt a bit sad for him.
He is protective boy.
:( Poor Daniel!Maya and Rafe have very pretty Chemistry together!!!
I miss Derek & Chloe * sigh * Both couples are different!
' No spoiler ' :PI can't wait for book 3 which Chloe and Maya * seem * meet together!
Derek x Chloe 4Ever <3 Rafe x Maya All the Way!
There are many CUTE Cougars in this book!
I really love Kelley Armstrong’s novels, especially the Darkest Powers trilogy, because they have a young adult plot with substance.
I pretty much only picked this up because of my faith in Kelley Armstrong’s writing.Unfortunately, this “substance” doesn’t kick in until what is pretty much the end of the novel.
Something I absolutely loved-and wish we had seen more of-is Maya’s interaction with her parents.
I appreciated that Maya was a strong heroine, she could take care of herself and even saved the males in this novel on account.
I enjoyed reading about her interaction with animals as well.(view spoiler)[Daniel was my favorite character for sure.
Anyone who is unfamiliar with Armstrong's other books would probably toss this book in the trash after finishing it, if they made it to the end.
We learn that the main character has some supernatural abilities, but everything we see in the book is pretty passive.
The main ability is only shown for one minor character.
There are hints that other characters probably also have different supernatural abilities, but nothing is ever shown.
I just wish that something had actually happened, other than "I've got this supernatural ability that I know nothing about, and haven't actually used, and really only know about this because someone else told me about it."
