https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3730.The_Hidden_Persuaders
This slim volume, already more than half a century old, remains readable and relevant today, despite largely preaching to the converted about a war that's already been lost.Its thesis is simple: sometime before the midpoint of the 20th Century, American advertisers began appropriating techniques from the burgeoning fields of psychology and sociology to manipulate us as consumers of goods and services, religions and politics, to a great extent without our knowledge or consent.
The effects of such manipulation were already pervasive and insidious even at the time Packard was writing, and have only grown more so since.Packard makes a good case, filled with telling anecdotes drawn from trade magazines and interviews with advertising industry insiders.
I remember after reading this around 1969 I scruntinized every print ad trying to decipher how it 'worked'.
Especially the alcohol ads, which Vance insisted had death heads images secreted in the photos.
I never found them.In high school journalism class we learned about advertising strategies.
Gee whiz, trying to make some boring book marketable to the common reader!
Ads of something I looked at pop up in the strangest places.
But really, Amazon, don't try to sell me books I reviewed!
I am still appalled and fascinated by advertising.
I am still appalled and fascinated by advertising.
"I persuasori occulti" di Vance Packard, saggio sui nuovi metodi di comunicazione pubblicitaria edito per la prima volta nei lontani anni cinquanta, malgrado l'evidente obsolescenza mediatica conserva un grande interesse per la capire la grande capacità di manipolazione psicologica dei mass media e delle agenzie pubblicitarie in particolare.
Scritto in un epoca in cui la televisione non era così pervasiva come oggi questo saggio conserva un grandissimo interesse per il suo valore di testimonianza storica e per la sua preveggenza sull'aspetto psicologico della proposta politica a dispetto dell'interesse generale.
An important book in the history of advertising.
The book was a massive public hit, and changed america's view of advertising forever.
The techniques are dated, the science has modernized, but the desires and motivations of MR have not flagged.
Ogilvy notoriously belittled the techniques Packard exposed here, and if you go read any AdAge article about current advertising MRI research, etc.
Today, we all know that advertisers go to great lengths to divine our inner soul.
This is the book that brought that to our attention, and it's still a great read.
For anyone born in the mid-twentieth century, The Hidden Persuaders is an intriguing look at the beginnings of advertising and marketing as it influenced our wants and needs, our purchasing decisions, our political views and even (possibly a stretch) led to our current economic situation.
I was 10 years old when it came out and I remember my dad talking about the book.Some people call Vance Packard the first Malcolm Gladwell.
Packard's book opened my eyes to a sinister trend in which we all participate.I already knew that after World War II, when American industry was at peak production due to the demands of war, manufacturers needed new markets for products.
This 1957 book is about the growing field of manipulating people from buying products to politicians.It was no doubt referenced in creating the show Mad Men, and is still frighteningly applicable today.
In the book it touches on the idea that in the year 2000 there would be biocontrol of people via chip implants.
What did happen, however, was that technology advanced from the more public-minded television stations to where we are now: the targeted and narrow marketing of ideas that are filtered via the internet and social media.
The centralization the internet has brought has created a further alienation used by marketing and politicians to keep their targets fed on only their version of reality.
The Hidden Persuaders was first published in 1957 and is one of the first popular books to describe the psychological techniques advertisers and marketers use to sell their wares.
This need became modified but remains as a primary impulse and need all through adult life … Smoking in general serves to relieve tension, impatience, anger, frustration – just as sucking does to the infant.”“People with extreme B.O. are extremely angry or hostile people.
People must be controlled by manipulating their [instincts and emotions] rather than by changing their reasonings.”Regardless of the psychological validity of these analysis’ (and I think there is more than a little), they are hilarious!
In fact, the resistance was becoming so strong, that it soon became apparent that production would quickly outstrip sales, and that wasn't a good thing for a growing economy.Packard's book concentrated on Ernest Dichter and his methods.'Ernest Dichter (14 August 1907 – 21 November 1991) was an Austrian-American psychologist and marketing expert known as the "father of motivational research." Dichter pioneered the application of Freudian psychoanalytic concepts and techniques to business — in particular to the study of consumer behavior in the marketplace.
I do not know if the book has been updated to include changes in recent decades (e.g. e-commerce and digital advertising), its basic premise of how consumers are manipulated, the various methods companies use to get their message across and get us to buy what they want, and the psychological underpinnings are still valid today.
In any case, an important work which throws light on what we as people are subject to, and despite claims of quality, sustainability, being in the public interest etc, we see what companies are motivated by and how they try to achieve their goals.
Advertising firms were consulting psychologists about how they could manipulate people into buying various brands.
Market Research in general is certainly a field of study today, but how much people can be manipulated is still in question.
From the perspective of 50 years later the book is very much worth reading but the efforts of advertising over the past half-century show that you can shift people’s attitudes but that they also reflect the times and that despite all that advertising people still exhibit a remarkable degree of independent thought that resists advertising.
Fascinating book about the nascent Mad Men era, when advertisers and marketers teamed with social scientists to tap into the consumer psyche.
Packard gives lots of anecdotes but doesn't really give away his own thoughts about the morality of the persuasive tactics and maneuvers on which he reports until late in the book, when he asks, "But when you are manipulating, where do you stop?
When it comes to politics, especially this last go-round, the deployment of persuasive arts has big consequences.I can easily recommend this to fans of Mad Men who've an interest in the psychology of the times.
Clocking in at 240 pages, that's 240 typos, which is inexcusable, and I can't be persuaded otherwise.
In many ways this book remains fresh, perhaps because of the popularity of Mad Men in bringing 50's advertising culture back to prominence.
If you can get back the casual sexism and references to tobacco's "cancer scare", however, it's still a great read.I found it impossible to read this book without thinking of Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness, another exploration of how to affect people's behaviour "for their own good".
As a thoughtful introduction from a time just starting to show the complexities of the modern world, though, this book is hard to beat.
While outdated in many respects, the basic ideas of this book remain valid, and are still frighteningly relevant.
It stresses the idea that corporations and even political parties exploit the fact that consumer buying habits and political choices are primarily ruled by emotion rather than reason.
This is a report of the mid-twentieth century efforts of advertising agencies and their corporate clients to manipulate the public.
Particularly disturbing is the discussion of the work of Dr. Ernest Dichter (a medical doctor?) and his cohorts, in leading such mind-controlling efforts.
Reading this book brings to mind the thought that this could be the playbook for the fictional "Madmen" TV characters.
A wonderful insight into the inner workings of the mind and how far marketers will go to influence decisions.This was the book that tutors told me was vital during my media degree and no doubt fifteen years later it is still regarded as high on the list of 'must reads'.The epilogue, written in the eighties is possibly more outdated than the rest of the book.
A great shame that Packard died in the early nineties and wasn't around to witness the rise of the internet, big data and the greatest loss of personal privacy to the 'hidden persuaders' ever seen.
Or indeed, not seen.
Intriguing read, because at the time, consumer manipulation was only just beginning.
There is a glimpse into a world before mass persuasion was the norm.
I slightly wonder at the conclusion though...
just letting people know that they're being manipulated was not going to arm them against the onslaught of P.R. as we now know.
The methods at the time had one big flaw....
one section of the population never made it into the data bases: the ones who didn't like divulging information.
Nowadays the data is wrenched from you, whether you like it or not.
Packard's classic look at the methods of psychological manipulation companies used (and still use) to sell products, ideas, and candidates. In retrospect, some of them appear silly and naive, but most were very successful. It's a good reminder to us all that we are constantly bombarded with manipulative marketing messages, and we should all be wary of being overconfident that we are not duped by them. Disappointingly, this edition is full of typographical errors.
surprisingly relevant, even sixty years later. there's a lot to learn from packard's book, be it the ways in which packaging is developed, or the various emotions to which advertisers appeal. there's quite a bit of sexist opinion in here, which can readily be discarded, but the buying patterns of the american consumer seem to have changed little since the late '50s.
Subliminal advertising explained, described, exposed and illustrated. This was pretty big in the 70s. It's still around. But this book was huge to me when I read it, in terms of my realization of the cynicism, scope of business and research behind advertising.
Superbly written and a warning to the future, which we are now living in.
Slightly dry but highly informative, and still very relevant considering its age
Dated but great.
The astonishing thing about this book is that it was written in 1957.
It outlines the commencement of what has become an ongoing campaign to perfect be technique of selling to our unconscious.
If recent world events are anything to go by, a campaign that has been successful.
While a significant portion of the book is devoted to anecdotes intended to surprise and amuse, there is more then enough there of chilling presentiment to make it a page turner.
Packard predicts the movement of subconscious marketing techniques into politics, and it is clear that he would be horrified by the facilities offered by our ubiquitous social media platforms today.
I read this in college. It still is too relevant. It’s an indictment of the gullibility of the American average citizen susceptibility to motivational manipulation. In discussion of motivation in a mass setting, you can easily see the roots of the Trump Campaign and the Nuremberg Rallies under the Nazi Party domination.
Basically American as for the data he analyzes, out of date for the most of it, but still interesting in some parts
Sadly, still true.
It was interesting...
beginning and end weren't so interesting, but the middles reminded me of Mythologies

...how the puritan masses became dependant consumers.
A basic education in marketing and consumer behaiviour.
This book was meant to shock and entertain intitially in the late 1950's, but since we have adapted a thicker skin and humor all the while knowing that marketing is cold and calculating.
This isnt metioned right away, but packard repeatedly offers the suggestion that "positive thinkers" as we know them and witness them today are a result of modern marketing.
if you want to put your neighbor in a jealous awe, then consume to match the income level that you want to project.
There's really nothing I can say about the content of this classic of social manipulation, other than that it holds up remarkably well after 50+ years.
That's the only possible explanation for the dreadful level of missing and misspelled words, at least one of which is a classic of a missing letter that turns a general word anatomic.What makes this book important is that it makes clear just how long the public has been used as a vast experimental laboratory while those in power perfected their skills at manipulating us.
