https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16131489-the-last-star
His eyes drank me in. Oh, the Evanness of it all, how he gulps down my presence like a guy stumbling upon an oasis in the desert. What happened to this series?I was one of The 5th Wave's biggest fans, singing its praises to everyone who would listen. The Infinite Sea wasn't as strong for me, but that too was an enjoyable experience because I just clicked so much with Yancey's writing. This conclusion was a struggle to finish.As much as I loved the first book, I'm not going to pretend this serie
Arguably, it's the only thing that could have happened to avoid a forced ending where everyone holds hands and walks off into the sunset.
I doubt anyone who's read a few other popular YA series will be surprised.But the worst thing about this book is the thing that's been niggling at the back of my mind throughout the entire trilogy - Cassie and Evan.
The saddest thing is that I really did love the first book, and even the second wasn't bad.
It's not the kind of series where you can just read one book and be satisfied either - lots of questions are left unanswered.
I'm gonna curl up into fetal position and weep.
The Last Star was one of my most anticipated releases of 2016. No one is more saddened than me that 1) this book was a disappointment, and 2) I can’t even lie to myself about how disappointing it was. Hence, the 2.5 stars. Ben Parish was my silver lining, as the Par(r)ishs always are. Life is a circle bound by fear. The fear of the predator. The fear of the prey. Without fear, life would not exist. This is a very detailed review, so beware of minor spoilers. All the major ones are tagged as such
All the major ones are tagged as such.The characters: ☆☆☆☛ CassieNever in my life have I picked up a final instalment only to realize that the main character sounded 100% different than in the previous books.
Frankly, I wanted it to be Cassie, because after that ‘Buzz Lightyear’ quote, I was so ready to jump ship (might also have to do with the overwhelming absence of Evan in this instalment but ok...) ☛ Marika “Ringer”Ringer was the big surprise for me in this book.
On the other hand, I feel like after the previous books, maybe the sci-fi balloon had left some of its air?
Going to warn you now, if you don't remember a lot from the first two books please take the time to go back and re-read them!
The Last Star is everything I wanted out of a final book and then some.
and if they don't need a planet, why did they come for ours?" The Last Star brings back all the characters you know and love.
Since this series is so character driven I was waiting on pin and needles to see how the finale would bring their development.
He has proven that a final book in a series doesn't have to be perfectly neat that they can be messy.
My reaction to seeing this:
She was the last star, burning bright in a sea of limitless black.”I read the first two books back-to-back last summer and I absolutely loved them—I think partly because I was binge-watching The Walking Dead at that time and the books reminded me in some way of the show and also because this series is just completely epic.So when I finished The Infinitive Sea after being in a book-marathoning haze, I couldn’t believe I had to wait a full year to find out what would happen next.And now here I am finished with the last book with tears in my eyes because THIS WORLD WAS EVERYTHING.I was so scared that I wouldn’t love it quite as much as the first two because it’s been so long (and because I quit watching TWD after season 5— I’m still mad about that season), but I needn’t have worried.I don’t know how, but I forgot how much I loved this series and, thankfully, The Last Star brought it all back.
Cassie says she doesn't like Ben, Cassie still fantasizes about him.
It's kind of like Yancey treated it like it wasn't a big deal to Ben anymore: "'Like you went back for Sam. Like you didn't go back for-' 'Yes. No.
Ben cares more for Nugget than Cassie does and in this book he forgets him multiple times which is so unrealistic.
Her confused feelings for Evan put him in front of Sam multiple times which bothered me a lot.
In fact, he even made Ben look like he cared about Cassie in this last book.
If not for some of the actions of certain characters (Evan and Cassie, that's you), I would've given this 1 star.Sad, right?Not only did this book a.) take me a million years to read b.) put me to sleep and c.) make me angry, but it also made me partially regret even starting the series.
Am I the only one who never saw Ben/Zombie's thing for Ringer in the past books?
I'm okay that they didn't end up together, but Evan and Cassie didn't have to be so weird with each other.
This book better ties up That crazy plot twist neatly. Otherwise i am going to be very angry.
Waiting for the book = Die Having the book = Die
2.5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Dead Man's Bones – Lose Your SoulDikta – Someone, SomewhereMich Gerber ft. Jaël of Lunik – You RemainGenre: apocalyptic, YAStuff: aliens, humans, the end of the worldFail: lame explanations, the finalWOW: Evan and CassiePOV: 1st and 3rd person, multiLove-Geometry: noneQ
It's like the author forgot what kind of persons they used to be: Cassie lost her wits, Sam was acting like a bitch, Ringer became Mary Sue and Special Snowflake side by side, Ben was him average self only this time he was also sweet upon Ringer and swearing at Sam, Evan was...
Even during the apocalyptic time.Next to the end Cassie got back to her old self and though the damage was done I liked her better than Ringer the Great.Ringer.
I might like how funny and kind he was, even loved him as lone hero: Ben Parrish without cheesy crush on Ringer.
This 3rd book is taking too long to come out nearly over than a year now!So I'm waiting ...In the line with the others who are also waiting...It is too much waiting, already!
Call me Zombie.Everything hurts. Even blinking hurts. But I’m getting up. That’s what zombies do.We rise.  Okay so…I’m not guna lie. I had a review that I LOVED written out, but my laptop is acting up again and it shut off before my USB saved it. I was going to recreate it, I was in the process of doing so, but it seems stupid. Those were REAL emotions and they flowed out of me so easily…but that’s what happens when you truly connect with a story. So, seeing as I loved this story, this series,
It’s not often I love a whole series from beginning to end.
Especially those last books…they love to pull those final book extensions because  'You want it to be what it’s meant to be right?
Don’t you want the perfect end to your beloved series???
Not everyone gets as disappointed, haughty, or judgmental as I, though, apparently, because there have been, like, seven releases this year for finales and I’ve hated 6 out of the 7 while others loved them.
The second book got dark, therefore making me even more of a fan, even as some people dwindled off and lost their love for it.
I doubt the finale of this supposedly epic series is meant to be funny but if there’s anything the book achieved, it’s that it really was funny- the cheesy kind, hundreds of eye-rolls worthy kind of funny but funny nonetheless.
*Guess I’m in a very, very sad place right now, tsk, tsk.*But even though I did enjoy the humor and sarcasm, Cassie felt like a totally different person here with all her cheesy and snarky narrations.
It’s the end of the world and there Cassie goes writing tacky, personal fantasies in her journal while Ben uses his one thousand kilowatt killer smile as weapon against the enemy or the girl he desires.
And now that I’ve read it, I can safely say that Yancey ended the book in an amazing way.
I was still left wanting more, but at the same time I’m satisfied with the way the book ended.
I loved that we got multiple points of view, and that we heard from every main character evenly.
(view spoiler)[that's why the way Yancey ended her story hit me so damn hard (hide spoiler)] I also loved that this book referenced many quotes and events from the first book, and that we kind of got a closure to those events and quotes.I should probably now stop, before I start rambling.
This book is a massive let down and a terrible end to a great series.I hated reading most of this bo
Latest Update: 24/05/2017 GUYS!!!! Do you know that there'll be three new books based on The 5th Wave trilogy??? The next installment will be out in spring, 2018!!! Read the announcement HERE!!!!Although I disliked the ending of this one, now I have high hope for a better one *FINGERS AND TOES CROSSED* !!! What do you think? Are you excited about it? Please let me know! :D Review: 11/09/2016   They rest in us and we in them. Our heart contains all others. One heart, one life, on the advent of a
After finishing the book(huh, finally), I felt like being brainwashed over and over again so all you need to know what this book's about is that 
Don't blame me but this is what the book made me.Thus, in my most genuine opinion, I think what's really worthy of reading is the final 50 pages and that's all.
You don't necessarily need to know what happened before these pages (and to save your innocent hearts) because like I said, I barely knew what was going on 80% of the book.
However, I can assure you that I don't like where the story leads and how it ends.
The Last Star (The 5th Wave #3), Rick YanceyThe Last Star is a young adult science fiction novel written by American author Rick Yancey.
The novel is the third and final in The 5th Wave trilogy, preceded by The Infinite Sea. The Last Star concludes the story of 16-year-old Cassiopeia "Cassie" Sullivan battling against the aliens that have invaded Earth.
GOD BLESS THERE'S A THIRD BOOK
Yancey has created such a stellar cast of characters that overwhelmed me, moved me and had me screaming with both laughter and pain.
I became so emotionally invested in their main objective as well as their individual plights and I think this is in part due to the brilliant construction of their characters as well as the sublime and lyrical quality to the writing.
The whole series is concerned with the question of what humanity exactly is, and I think each individual character and Yancey's creation of them perfectly summed this up: they are humanity.
“Because here’s the thing: seeing yourself through another’s eyes shifts your center of gravity. It doesn’t change the way you look at yourself. It changes the way you look at the world. Not the you. The everything-but-you.”  I am so dissapointed in this book/ series. The Last Star was 200 pages of verbosity. I am sorry but it really was.This series started out great, I loved The 5th Wave but it got worse and worse. I still don't understand WHY? Why all this? Why the waves and why the killings
It changes the way you look at the world.
I am sorry but it really was.This series started out great, I loved The 5th Wave but it got worse and worse.
She kept complaining and getting angry for no reason, basically she acted like a 5 year old whose mom didn't buy her a candy.
Very unrealistic.The only characters that make this book bearble for me is Ringer and Ben Parrish, at least they still rock.It will seem funny after all this negative talk however I loved the ending, it almost brought tears to my eyes, almost...The 5th wave was really good but after last 2 books I don't know what to think about this series anymore.
DO MY EYES FUCKING DECEIVE ME OR DOES THAT SAY MAY 17TH 2016• • • • •   THE LAST STAR  OHMYGOD
Oh my God. How do I even review this. I am a puddle of emotions. Why ya gotta do this, Rick Yancey?
I feel like this was a satisfying conclusion to the trilogy.
Sam gets a couple POVs. At first, I felt like I had waited too long between book 2 and 3 and was missing a few things, but I eventually caught on and remembered.
There was a lot of action, the pacing felt pretty even.
I would recommend this trilogy and it has become one of my favorites.
It didn't feel like it was done to shock readers.
Mucha acción, mucha sangre, mucho miedo, mucha incertidumbre y al final una preciosa lección sobre la humanidadReseña: https://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2018/...Video-Reseña: https://youtu.be/ARkW_xSGwHY
Reviewed by: Hello Beautiful Book Blog Yancey is back at it again with precise characterization, fierce energy, and an eerie awareness that time is running out. The Last Star… The. Last. Star. “Love is forever. If it wasn’t, it wouldn’t be love. The world is beautiful. If it wasn’t, it wouldn’t be the world.” How do I put into words how much I was anticipating this book? I think it’s impossible. I was so engrossed with The 5th Wave. I love YA and I am such a sucker for YA trilogies, don’t ask me
I feel like the story has progressed SO much since The 5th Wave.
I don’t really feel like the characters are even the same people after all they have been through.
Yancey has to cover so much and so many POVs in one book that I think some of the smaller details in the characters I loved so much was lost in translation.
The superb storytelling and the wonderful characters made this series worthwhile for me.I am humanity.Love conquers all.I felt a little numb at first, but now my heart is breaking.
This was 352 pages of pure adrenaline.
This book exceeded my expectations.
From beginning to end, it's non-stop, my heart might literally beat out of my chest, action.
I'm telling you, you'll fear the lives of every single character.
And I don't mean you'll fear their lives, knowing they're meaningless threats.
No, it was a genuine fear that constantly kept me on edge.It's been a long time since I've felt completely satisfied with a finale.
There's always something that irritates me.
Regardless of an alien apocalypse, everything is not always perfect.
It was perfect.
I have no idea what happened to this series.
Book one was so fantastic, book two was just completely boring and pointless because nothing happened, and this one..
idk.I'm confused as to whether it's my fault that I fell out of love with this series, considering I read the first book 3-4 years ago.
When the second book lets you down a bit you have hope that the conclusion will set everything right, that it will bring back those feelings of oh god what's going to happen next I have to keep reading I need answers I need more.
Every time Ringer's pov came up I wanted to stop reading especially bad.
Like when Cassie and Evan had sex (I will just revert to my natural reaction: sigh.) You had to squint really hard for that one too.
Everyone-wants-me-dead-because-I-learned-to-love-like-humans-are-supposed-to Evan.
I had faith it would pay off and I felt it did!There were a few things I was left confused about, but overall I enjoyed the way that Yancey played with different narratives.
In The Last Star, the sections of the book are now by day instead of character, with many narrative changes happening throughout each section.
I can see how this might be confusing, but I ended up thinking it was an interesting stylistic choice.So, there's a big thing that happens at the end and I'm going to hide it as a spoiler, but want to talk about it!
