https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31312.The_Dance_of_Anger
We tend, she says, to “see people rather than patterns as the problem.” To break ineffective patterns, which are often perpetuated by the way we either express or repress our anger, we need instead to use our anger to affect change.
What Learner did for me in this book was to focus my mind on a different and probably more useful question: not, is my anger GOOD or BAD, but, rather, is my anger ACCOMPLISHING anything positive?
Read this years ago ... my older daughter too. Absolutely valuable.... The authors new book out this year sounds even more powerful.
** A Life Changing Book **Read years ago. This book made a huge impact on my life, and changed my life dramatically for the better.The Dance of Anger, recommended by a therapist, will show the reader how to express anger -- and deal with anger being directed toward you -- without yelling, screaming, name calling, etc.This was literally the first clue I ever got about how to express anger in a calm way and to actually RESOLVE an issue, without constantly exploding over it, or being the "explodee".
A case was presented in which a woman was not "allowed" to attend the author's anger workshop because her husband said no.
The author presented several "real cases" then proceeded to explain how she helped the person or persons work through their anger issues.
(This went on for almost a year!) I thought she made a good point in that when one pushes hard in a certain direction the other can often push even harder the opposite direction...however, it bugged me that she suggested that if the woman had waited until the man was more "receptive" (like after "snuggling", i.e., sex) then approached him with her concerns, he may have acted differently.
I never really thought I'd read a self-help book(especially one on relationships, eek), but I've re-read this one three times at different points in my life.
The books (there's a Dance series) are easy to read, her case studies are good because the examples are ones that everyone can find in their own lives, and her advice is really sound.
The basic premise is that if you're unhappy in any relationship, romantic or otherwise, you're the one who has to change things, that you're wasting your time if you're trying to change someone else.
As a therapist, she helped this woman shift from complaining about her father's behavior to evaluating her own -- how could she set new limits with her father which would allow her to give to him without feeling resentful?Happily, Katy's decision was one which I actually felt was reasonable -- she told her father she could only meet him for dinner twice a week instead of three times a week, and that she could shop for him once a week but not on an on-call basis.
However, I felt that the idea of setting limits in a relationship was emphasized far more than the aspect of finding limits that allow you to continue giving.
Helpful book.
Guys may be turned off due to the subtitle: "A Woman's Guide...", but Lerner's principles aptly apply to men too.
Also, anger may be the topic, but a healthier relationship is the goal.
She helps break down how anger, instead of causing endless cycles of frustration, can be used as a tool to deepen our relationships with loved ones and to better understand our true selves.Some stuff Lerner discusses: misconceptions of anger (ch 1); marital discord and breaking the cycle (ch 3; also reminds me of Love and Respect by Emerson Eggerichs); asserting yourself; taking responsibility in relationships (ch 7); communication skills; developing your identity; relational triangles (ch 8).
I liked the opportunity to use anger to define self and I appreciated the context of societal roles by gender even though I tend to be more "masculine" in my expression of anger.The best part about the book is the simple how-to examples of how every relationship is a dance and the only way to change the dance is to change YOUR steps.
For those with a short attention span, you will be happy to hear that the book can be read in one day.Many self help books are downers but this was light enough that it felt realistic to implement some of the changes.
this is a great book to keep on your bookshelves amongst literary fiction and a few aesthetically pleasing picture books...it really makes people do a double-take.
I actually love how awfully self-help this book looks.If you get in fights with your mother--or your partner--or strangers (and maybe sometimes the fights stay in your head)...this is the book for you.If I were a dancer I'd totally choreograph The Dance of Anger.
and showcase it in some wretched performance-art loft-space.
because that would be hilarious.Just thinking of that makes me think maybe I'll start working on dance, and making friends who squat in abandoned lofts.
Excellent book for women of all walks to read!!
It's not what it sounds like.
I know we all are programmed away from anger.
Anger is BAAAAAAD, right?
Well, this is one of Harriet Lerner's fabulous books that teaches women how to use our emotions in a positive way to get our needs met.
It's a book about boundaries and using our anger...recognizing it as a gps system.
Our anger is valid and it is always telling us something.
This is not a book about venting or blowing off steam.
یکی از بهترین کتاب های سلف هلپ"self-help"که خوانده ام. ناشر آن چشمه است. خلاصه و چکیده اش این میشود که خشم یک هیجان بسیار مهم است و حتما چراغی را در ما روشن میکند. بنابراین حتما باید به آنچه که می خواهد بگوید یاد بگیریم و درست گوش کنیم.
The problem is - after mother has done that, the father starts punishing his child by beating him with a belt.
Here, however, we have a 8-year-old child, who by no means is an equal to his father, nor does he have a clear understanding of what is normal in a relationship with an adult.
In the future, the child will resent his mother for not speaking up and "leaving the father and the son to figure their relationship out on their own".
لا تكن لينا فتعصر ولا تكن قاسيا فتكسر.
ليس هناك انا او الاخر هناك انا والاخر وانت تراعي مشاعر الاخرين لا تنسى حق نفسك عليك.
الغضب شعور انساني طبيعي يحدث عندما تشعر بانه تم التعدي على حقوقك.
هناك نوعين من الاشخاص الشخص المنسحب اللطيف الذي يصمت ويكتم غضبه وهو يضر نفسه بذلك لان التراكمات التي تحصل بداخله ستؤدي به في يوم ما الى الانفجار او سيتحول الغضب الى مرض (نوبة ربو سكتة دماغية...).
وهناك الشخص الاناني الذي يعبر عن غضبه ويقوم بايذاء الاخرين ويجعل الامور اكثر سوءا.
الكتاب سيساعدك على التعامل مع غضبك وبالرغم من انه موجه الى النساء لكنه مفيد لكل شخص
Great book and a worthwhile read for women and men. From my own experience, I was battling my ex for over a year to get our divorce settled. After I read the book, I changed my approach from being more emotional and pursuing, to being more cool and detached. Within 3 weeks, we had our divorce settlement finalized and signed by lawyers. Why? Because the book taught me that if I want the opposite reaction of my partner, I had to do the opposite of what she was doing. And it worked perfectly!
when Kevin saw this on the table, he said "oh, you're learning the polka?"
My second reading of this book...first time was a very long time ago. Many great techniques for effectively setting boundaries with people, especially those closest to us. Now problem with self-help books is if you never practice what they preach then nothing gained. Trying a few things with Dad but he just laughs when I try to change things. Oh well, little by little, inch by inch I go.
When a woman shows her anger, she is likely to be dismissed as irrational or worse.""Anger is inevitable when our lives consist of giving in and going along; when we assume responsibility for other people’s feelings and reactions; when we relinquish our primary responsibility to proceed with our own growth and ensure the quality of our own lives; when we behave as if having a relationship is more important than having a self.""Anger is a tool for change when it challenges us to become more of an expert on the self and less of an expert on others.""We are responsible for our own behavior.
Lerner does a fantastic job at including scenarios that are relevant to everyone, no matter how old they are, whether they are married, single, dating or etc, or what their family situation is.Women reading this book will be shocked to realize how underlying social pressures they experience affect the way they've subconsciously thought about conflict in relationships.
What I loved about this book is that Lerner outlines how to overcome these subconscious thoughts and become better at solving conflicts.Men reading this book will also be able to benefit from its lessons about channeling anger effectively and will gain additional perspective on why the women they know react the way they do to conflict.
This is a great book for anyone who's ever been, currently or will be angry with someone else.
It will teach you how to better communicate your anger in more effective ways so that you can produce favorable results.
In addition, it will teach you how to change your own behavior to influence someone else's behavior.
Be warned, after you read this book, you may no longer find yourself wasting breath on aggressively telling someone else to stop their bad behavior when you could be changing your own.
There was a lot of good tips in this book, but they were buried within stories that were full of repetitious points. The writing style is what made this book hard to read. Most sections started with a story where I felt it should have started with a summary of the lesson to be learned. I found myself saying "get to the point" a lot, and having to take a lot of breaks, whereas other well-organized psychology books kept me engaged. Otherwise, very good info if you can wade through it.
It's one that's been recommended to me over again by a friend and family member, so out it came.Reviewing a book like this is fraught with danger.
If I tell you it feels like the author has splayed out my life in book format, people will ask questions: Who are you angry at?
Did you read the book because of me?The truth is, we all have anger in our lives, whether it's friends or family.
Think about it, I'm sure you can come up with some examples yourself.In future, I feel like I'll return to this book.
This has been recommended to me by a variety of people over the years, but I always resisted it.
I would emphatically recommend it to anyone.The main emphasis of this book is the behavioural cycles that pairs or triangles of people can find themselves in if they over- or under-act on their anger and conflicts.
It is written for women, but the cycles are discussed from a variety of perspectives, including a male perspective, so realistically anyone could find this useful.I recognized myself in MANY of the examples.
I’m an Enneagram 1 and have only recently recognized that I have historical anger issues.
This book helped me identify what lies beneath my chronic anger, and how it looks different in different relationships (spouse, family of origin, work).
I’ve owned this book for years and can’t believe I’m just reading it for the first time.
More than anything, I appreciate the author’s view that anger is not good or bad, but “Anger is a tool for change when it challenges us to become more of an expert on the self and less of an expert on others.” When I’m angry, change begins with me.
Anger is not in and of itself a bad thing. It’s a feeling we have. But sometimes the way we handle it isn’t the most effective. This book did a great job showing examples of ways to better set boundaries, ask for what you need, and respond to others trying to lure you back into old behaviors. Incredibly helpful in all relationships.
Down Girl: here is a detailed breakdown of how the patriarchy works, with a predictive hypothesis about under what circumstances people will get mad at women for doing A Thing and not at a man doing The Same Damn Thing.Combahee River Collective: the systemic shit includes the patriarchy, white supremacy and capitalism.
We know what the victory condition looks like in this struggle even if working out how to get there takes time and effort.
When black women are free, it will mean everybody else is also free.Dance of Anger: here's how you can learn to address some of the systemic shit when it's manifesting in your face.
Recommended by a therapist I really found this book useful. I could see myself returning to it at several points in my life. The section about the "de-selfing" we do in relationships in our lives was especially important. Might buy a copy so that I can annotate it later.
A must read for all, specially women! Even if you don’t consider yourself an angry person, this book is amazing. It will help you with any relationship and even if you’re the most calm person, it’s great to know why others may be reacting the way they are and what you can do to best manage that situation.
Short, sweet, and to the point.
”Just as physical pain tells us to take our hand off the hot stove, the pain of our anger preserves the very integrity of our self...Many of our problems with anger occur when we choose between having a relationship and having a self. This book is about having both.”
Detaylı, geniş kapsamlı ve örnekleriyle anlaşılmayı kolaylaştıran yapısı ile herkese tavsiye edebileceğim harika bir kitap. Büyük bir zevkle okuyorum, teşekkürler Herriet Lerner.
