https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425098.A_Thief_of_Time
Visiting Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee in the pages of a Hillerman mystery is the next best thing to sleeping under the stars in Navajo country, wondering if there is magic in the sky above.A Thief of Time has atmosphere to spare, and a complex plot.
All that is clear is that a Navajo would not be involved; because according to Navajo tradition, stealing pots would make one a Thief of Time.Chee's allowing a rather large backhoe get stolen right under his nose will have ties to Leaphorn's investigation.
Leaphorn's recollection of another death will tie-in with Eleanor's disappearance, who was collecting pots made by the mysterious Anasazi.
Even though he's not very mensch-like in this book, I still have hope that the kickass man in Dance Hall of the Dead is going to reappear sometime.
These books are never going to get above a three star rating for me if Leaphorn (and possibly Chee, although I don't have as much hope for him) doesn't start acting like a mensch, and soon....I did NOT see the twist or the ending of this one coming!
Good job on him....And you can FINALLY see in this book that Leaphorn and Chee are going to be friends.
Tony Hillerman's mystery series set in the Navajo Nation includes 18 books written by him over 4 decades.
A Thief of Time is someone who steals bones and artifacts from Native American ruins, of which there are thousands in the Four Corners area of the U.S. I was immediately drawn into this story of two seemingly unconnected crimes, one the theft of a flat-bed trailer and the other of a missing anthropologist who specializes in pots, especially focused on those of the Anasazi culture which abruptly disappeared almost a thousand years ago.
The most beautiful might be the work of just a few individual crafts people making their wares in specialized centers.
Here are examples of the late style St. John Polychrome ceramics that figure in Hillerman's eight Leaphorn-Chee mystery.
Here is a close-up showing the high-glazed version of St John Polychrome.The Anasazi also left behind extensive petroglyphs, wall murals depicting gods and ceremonies.
Can a few shards of St. John polychrome lead to an undiscovered Anasazi site?
These questions seem to link a missing anthropologist, a damaged archeological site and a series of unsolved murders Eventually the questions bring Lt. Joe Leaphorn and Officer Jim Chee together in one of Hillerman's most satisfying outings.
The ensuing novel is a wonderful crossing over of crimes, of lives intertwined, of coincidences which turn out to be significant later on, and nicely observed human foibles.
It is a nice intertwining of his life prior to meeting her and his life how, and reflected in the lives of the two archaeologists who are left at the site.
Jim Chee, meanwhile, the more traditional of the two policemen, is struggling with his own personal life - the teacher he loved has gone back to her life away from the reservation, and he is left wondering if the lawyer, Janet Pete, could be the one for him.
An anthropologist who's willing to cross legal lines in order to find the truth of the past has disappeared somewhere in the canyons of the Southwest.
Two police officers in the Navajo Tribal Police have to sort through a series of series of improbable events to find out the truth.Some solidly enjoyable mystery reading.
This one's not a hugely remarkable plot, as far as a puzzle goes, but is otherwise very well written.
Where this shines is in the procedures, which is not something I'd ever thought I'd say, because I've disliked anything "procedural" in the past.
Ένα ήρεμο, τρυφερό ανάγνωσμα, που οδηγεί μέσα από τη τραχύτητα του τοπίου και των σχέσεων λευκών και Αμερινδών σε μια πολύ όμορφη κορύφωση. Η ανατροπή του τέλους κι η χρήση του Κοκοπέλι ήταν πραγματικά απολαυστικές. Για κάποιο λόγο όμως, δεν κατάφερε να με ενθουσιάσει όσο περίμενα, παρά που το θέμα του (ανασκαφές, ιστορίες, Αμερινδοί) είναι ένα από τα πιο αγαπημένα μου. Δεν σταμάτησα να το διαβάζω, αλλά δεν λαχταρούσα κιόλας να το τελειώσω.
I have read many of Hillermans books, but this one escaped me, so now, I am checking it out for many reasons.Oh my goodness, how I have let Hillermans writings slip past me for so long I have no idea!
But "A Thief of Time" is amazing and kept me on the edge of my seat.
I have started once again, "Skinwalkers" and already it is riveting in the first 20 pages.Having lived in the South Eastern part of Utah for 20 years, I related so much in "A Thief of Time" of the area and the archeological sites found, not to mention probably thousands not yet found.
This is an early Hillerman Novel for me and it hooked me onto this type of writing. I live in New Mexico, so I know so much about what he is writing about and where. The Navajo culture seems to come alive and you see the fine line they live between their and our cultures. The mystery seems to come alive on the reservation and high desert of Arizonia. I'm always glad when Leaphorn and Chee work together. They are a good pairing.
I had reservations about reading A Thief of Time by Tony Hillerman.
The story is set in the Navajo Nation where Ellie, an archaeologist suddenly vanishes.
Two Navajo officers, Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee must figure out the mystery.
Leaphorn and Chee meander around the area looking for clues, interviewing other dull and boring characters until suddenly they solve the mystery.
A Thief of Time really describes what happens when a reader reads this book.
The reader could be reading a really good book but instead chose Hillerman’s dull and boring story of the missing archaeologist instead
Excellent addition to the Hillerman stories set in Navaho lands in New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado and Utah.
Both Leaphorn and Chee are in this one which, to me, makes it a better story.
Leaphorn is searching for a missing anthropologist who is working on documenting the Anssazi Indian race, who seemingly just "vanished" sometime around 1300 BC.
Ellie's emphasis is on pots, specifically those by a certain potter who developed a distinctive style that could be tracked and dated.When the two story lines converge Leaphorn and Chee start working together to solve the crime.I'm still really enjoying this series and will keep reading.
I've heard it mentioned several times that this was author Tony Hillerman's own favorite of his Leaphorn/Chee series. It is now one of my favorites of the series, too. Once the arc of the story is established, there is a satisfying combination of action and character development. The introspection of the primary characters (and some of the minor characters as well) actually complements the plot and makes the action more believable.The only thing that would have made it a more enjoyable read would have been finding a good unabridged audio version. I could not find any unabridged audio at all.
A really good read.
If you like your crime thrillers to be smart, suspenseful throughout, characters with some depth and dashing so of humor then this is the book for you.
The book takes place on a Navajo reservation and is one of a series with a Navajo detective called Leaphorn.
I had recently gone through a run of fictional heroes whose ability to bear pain crossed over from the heroic into these people are some serious perverts.
So it was a great relief to be left in the hands of a smart man who was able to think his way through a plot that eschewed the ridiculous and chose the clever.
It starts with a wonderfully creepy scene in which a researcher into the Anasazi peoples discovers a couple of dozen little frogs who have been tethered by a string tied around their legs so they can’t hop away.
After the opening scene, it becomes a fairly typical detective story as Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police each find themselves looking for the missing woman.
To find her, they have to learn a decent amount about the illegal trade in Anasazi pots which I also found fascinating.
The tension builds as Leaphorn gets closer and closer to discovering what happened to the woman.
Thief in Time is set in the Chaco Cultural site where many Anazazi ruins are found.
The search for her takes Detective Leaphorn down the San Juan River and into the depths of the mysterious Many Ruins Canyon.
I learned a great deal about pot hunters and grave differs, but I found the motivation for murder weak.
I read this story in the series of mysteries set on the Navajo Reservation because Hillerman said it was his breakout novel.
I didn’t enjoy it as much as the first two in the series, but will continue reading the series.
I love learning about the native American culture this way.
Well written mystery novel taking place in the Four Corners area of the Navajo Nation Country. An anthropologist specializing in Anasazi pottery disappears in a remote canyon of 3 ancient Anasazi ruins as others are chasing discoveries about the Anasazi having a sixth finger and extra molar make for a fun to read suspense novel. A couple of Anasazi pottery thieves, a missing backhoe and other over-lapping mysteries make this a worthwhile read. Navajo police Lieutenant Leaphorn and Sargent Jim Chee give the story the humor and logic a good storyteller infuses into a tale of mystery and suspense.
I read an earlier book in the series a number of years ago and thought I'd check this one out form my library digital system.
The Four Corners setting is very well described.
Someone is illegally digging Indian graves for pots to sell on the open marker that are worth quite a lot of money.
I liked the way Leephorn and Chee both were working on the case simultaneously and came to the same conclusion about "who done it." A major element is the loss of Leephorn's wife Ellen unexpectedly.
He is depressed and suffering the loss.
His work and helping others becomes his way out.
I am really glad I took the time to read this book. The ending made me think long and hard about Viktor Frankl's Man's Search for Meaning, and his idea on living For the Love of another, even when that person is dead. It is enjoyable, fairly fast paced with a shifting third and sometimes omniscient narrator, but really good. Lot of nice dramatic irony when the reader knows something that none of the characters no. And I love the conflict around the Blessing Way and his resolution of it at the end. very nice.
More Leaphorn.
More Chee.
A partnership made in heaven?
Well, I guess we will see.
In book 8 we FINALLY get the boys together on a more permanent basis.
It's going to be good.
Leaphorn is in mourning at the loss of Emma and wants to retire, but the job just keeps pulling him back in.
Chee is still wet behind the ears, idealistic, and his own man.
We are chasing illegal pot hunters (as in pottery, not the plant) and murders abound.Hoping the "full moon" plot thread doesn't get dumped in the next book.
A good mystery, as always.
Very enjoyable - and I've been told I'd like it even more if I read the series in the proper order... Well written, good story, and very good characters and interactions. The fact that things happen in the southwest makes it even more interesting to me. I'll most definitely be looking for more of these!
I read this book 28 to 25 years ago.
I have read all of the Tony Hillerman books.
I plan to reread over a period of time most of the books.
His daughter is now writing books using the same characters plus a new character.
Jim Chee's wife Bernie is now a prominent character in her books.
The books by Anne Hillerman, definitely have a more feminine slant.
I have read all of books about the characters developed by her father.
Recently met someone in a bookstore looking for the Tony Hillerman books in hardback and suggested Anne Hillerman's books to her.
She purchased one of the books to try.
Quite simply, I loved it. Tony Hillerman moves me with his ability to write authentic characters that I can connect with and to transport me to a cultural landscape that expands my experience.
Excellent series!Great story. Series of cultural heritage mixed with mystery and investigation is ever appealing. This series is one I highly recommended.
Love Tony Hillerman, sad he has passed away. The Four Corners Region is just mystical and these mysteries portray that and so much more. I love the relationship between Leaphorn and Chee, gives it another dimension.Great light reading.
Another good book by Tony Hillerman. This one ties Leaphorn and Chew together again as they struggle to figure out a theft and a missing person case. The story also continues to build a separation of personalities between the two, showing they are truly different characters.
Recommended by a friend since we had just camped/visited Chaco Canyon. The accurate and thoughtful alignment of both the place and space AND the cultural anthropology of the people were really well done and the interplay of the Tribal police and the Agencies were also well done. This guy will be really missed.
I really enjoyed this book. Hillerman does a great job of allowing the characters to develop in a natural way. His descriptions of the landscape are wonderful. Makes me miss New Mexico.
So far one of my favorite Navajo mysteries. Great plot wonderful setting, it kept me thinking almost right up to the end.
Being very close to the setting of the book, and having recently traveled though Western New Mexico, I was reminded of how well Hillerman wrote about places, giving accurate descriptions while making the setting blend into the plot.
Add in some Anasazi legends, remote locations, and weird hieroglyphs, I was totally hooked and creeped out in a good way.The main characters of Leaphorn and Chee need some introduction here.
This adds depth to the story, and also helps drive the plot along with both characters working on the same problem.
This book can be read as a stand-alone, but I would recommend starting with some of Hillerman's earlier works.
The emotional resonance of the story comes from Leaphorn’s inner life, the reason why he cares about the missing woman, the archaeologist whose disappearance is the center of the mystery.
A dead body is never just a thing to hang a plot on, but a person, the end of a life, the departure of a soul.The secondary characters are complex and intense.
The crisis scene, even though it is the obligatory confrontation and confession, is handled so smoothly that it’s believable, and the ending is exactly right for Leaphorn’s soul.
