https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142033.Chanticleer_and_the_Fox
I enjoyed this tale.
I also enjoyed the Canterbury Tales in school and this is adapted from Nun's Priests Tale.
For once the fox is outsmarted by someone else.
How about them apples.
Chanticleer is a beautiful rooster.
I think the page with detail of him is really beautiful.
I can't say I'm a huge fan of roosters, but it makes for a good tale.
The artwork here reminds me of Sleeping Beauty and that time period.I did read this to the kids and they thought it was good too.
They gave it 4 stars.
The nephew still enjoys talking animal stories.
I think this speaks to the fact that in our rush to get children to read chapter books, we stop reading them picture books by the time they are 6 or 7.
The text retains some medieval flavor without sounding too stilted and if you like Barbara Cooney, as I do, prepare to be surprised by her illustrations, which are so different and yet just as wonderful as her usual style.
She studied medieval illuminated manuscripts for this project and married their style to her own to produce pictures that evoke the time, but have more movement and emotion.
I enjoyed "Chanticleer" though I'm not sure it will be especially memorable for me. I'm already a Barbara Cooney fan and I thought her illustrations were great--a delightful blend of bold and realistic with a touch of softness and charm. One of my favorite illustrations includes the daughter hugging the sheep--so sweet! I haven't read the original, so I can't compare, but felt that the adaptation was fairly readable and relatable for modern children but also retained a bit of it's old world flavor.
Alas, my Wednesday Night Working with Celeste on the Kids Floor will be moved to Thursdays, until further notice. I don't know what other books were competing for the Caldecot for 1958, but this book is really charming. I like the bold graphics and simple colors, but the detail and clean lines were beautiful. A cute Aesop-ish tale, taken and adapted from the Canterbury Tales. The story itself is deeper than many picture books today. I liked that it actually had difficult vocabulary words as it's never too early to start building a robust vocabulary for your children.
My 6 year old son, Daniel, says, "I loved all the animals! 5 stars!".
All of the illustrations in the book use the same pallet of four colors: green, azure, coral, and burnished gold.
This book falls short of a “classic” and therefor appears outdated and less interesting.Classroom use:Because I did not find the story itself particularly interesting, I would probably focus on the positive of the book, the illustrations.
This book could be used to introduce children to the use of color in illustrations.
This would be particularly useful when students are illustrating their own stories.
Not my favorite Caldecott. It's language is quite difficult so if you are reading this to younger children you may need to change the words to ones they can understand. If I were going to use this in a classroom I would use it in older grades. Possibly 5th grade and up. When I taught 7th and 8th grade Literature, I often used picture book to help simplify teaching more difficult literary elements. The pictures are old world style and are different than many other books I have read. 3 stars.
The illustrations in this book are beautiful! It definitely deserved the Caldecott Medal. The pictures fit the story so well, and I love the style and the bright colors.It would never have occurred to me to adapt Chaucer into a children's book. Although my three-year-old son didn't find the story terribly interesting (except for the naughty fox), it was a nice change of pace for me.
This is an award winning book about how the rooster had a bad dream that a fox would grab him by the neck.
When the rooster did this the fox grabbed him by his neck and took off.
Grade level: 1-4Appropriate classroom use: This could be used as an example when explaining to kids about stranger danger and being aware of their surroundings.
Small group use: Students could get into small groups and write down what they think the moral of the story is, what lesson did they learn and see what the kids come up with.
Canticleer and The Fox is a book about a proud rooster names Chanticleer who has a very beautiful voice and because of this is kidnapped by a Fox. The lesson behind this story is clearly stated towards the end of the book stating, “God bring misfortune to him who is too careless about his self- control as to prattle when he should hold his peace.” After reading this book I wasn’t very overjoyed about its storyline or conclusion.
Overall I wouldn’t recommend this book but if you were going to read it you could focus it around the lesson of not letting your vanity get in the way of rational decision making.
Chanticleer and the fox by Cooney Barbara Genre: picture book Reading level: 1-6 grade Format: good Reading the picture book Chanticleer And The Fox by Geoffrey Chaucer and illustrated by Barbara Cooney I came to realize that when the characters felt sad, scared, or out of place the picture illustrations had no color and where just black and white. But when the characters where happy the picture illustrations had color demonstrating the characters mood. Having the picture illustrations shown in
Chanticleer and the fox by Cooney Barbara Genre:	picture book		Reading level: 1-6 grade	Format: good Reading the picture book Chanticleer And The Fox by Geoffrey Chaucer and illustrated by Barbara Cooney I came to realize that when the characters felt sad, scared, or out of place the picture illustrations had no color and where just black and white.
But when the characters where happy the picture illustrations had color demonstrating the characters mood.
Having the picture illustrations shown in this way gives the reader a better understanding in how the character actually feels and engages the reader to feel like they are the character because the colors show the characters mood.
This re-telling of one of Geoffrey Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales, brilliantly adapted and illustrated by Barbara Cooney, has within it the makings of a wonderful read-aloud experience for both child and adult.
Cooney gives us Chaucer’s tale of Chanticleer, the vain (and prophetic) rooster captured by a fox due to his egotism, only to find he is later able to escape by playing to the fox’s own sense of self-importance.
Cooney’s rhythmic language captures that of another place and time, while remaining eminently readable.
The perceptive illustrations offer a captivating look at life in the Middle Ages, and Cooney’s use of color is exquisite.
Today I pulled it off the shelf because someone mentioned reading Walter Wangerin's The Book of Sorrows which is the sequel of The Book of the Dun Cow which also has Chanticleer in it.
Chanticleer is a character from the Canterbury Tales which I have never read but intend to but at this point I feel this children's book is about my level but my goal is Chaucer but how do you eat an elephant?
I think this book is a great way to start hanging pegs in a child's mind that make later readings of Wangerin and Chaucer accessible!
1959 Caldecott Medal WinnerVery cool medieval-style illustrations in this one.
It says on one of the cover flaps that the illustrator studied illuminated manuscripts and borrowed some chickens in order to make these pictures.
I'm still not sure how the illustrators make those solid colors--this one uses mostly blue, red, green, gold, and brown for the fox.
The colors all look so solid that I'm not sure how they're done.
Love the scene with the widow and her daughters chasing after the fox with all of the other animals close behind.
Returning to this Caldecott Medal-winning book was a pleasure.
I can remember reading this book when I was a child and being intrigued by the ornate artwork and the book's message about being wary of flatterers.
As I read it again, the same pleasure I experienced initially returned to me, and I worried for the rooster while also laughing at how he turns the tables on the fox who plans to eat him for dinner.
By opening his mouth when he shouldn't, he loses that succulent meal.
I love the black and white colors and the touches of red, green, and gold that are found throughout the pages.
I read this book as one of our January GR children's book groups. I respect Barbara Cooney's work and wanted to have this Caldecott for my collection. The story is an old Chaucer tale of a rooster who flaunts his good looks too much and is caught by a fox. Cooney's illustrations fit the story well. The moral of the story is one most children will learn from and provides a good discussion base for a family. Good story, great pictures.
An adaptation of one of the Canterbury Tales, of whose original version I have not read. I'm not sure if that makes a difference, because this was a fun and readable version. My son is three, so while I did read the whole book out once, I repeated it again in words that he could understand and showed him the pictures. The illustrations themselves were lovely with simple colors, and we enjoyed the experience quite a bit.
Cooney does a great job retelling this humorous Chaucer story, with a clever moral at the end. It is rather wordy, and so most suitable for elementary age children. The drawings are well executed and appealing. Some of the drawings are black ink only; others have been colored with bold, bright reds, greens, yellows, and other colors. The words and pictures are woven together into a seamless whole, making this one of my favorite of the Caldecott award-winning books.
I love the color scheme of the illustrations in this book, and how certain patches of color are used to draw the eye across the page in a particular way. I've never been crazy about the story itself, but I like the way the mother uses a moment of drama between animals as a way to teach her kids a lesson. I also think the cover illustration is great - the fox peeking out of the bush at Chanticleer tells us so much about the story to come.
Lovely story and picture book.
Beautiful book, but too old fashioned to hold my son's interest.
I learned not to let wolves flatter me into letting them eat me.
I do not like this book because Chanticleer gets captured by the fox. His lesson was you should not listen to bad people.
They are not being exposed to the best and most intelligent aspects of our cultural tradition, like Chanticleer and the Fox.Reading this book from today's perspective, with our need for immediate gratification and our short attention spans, many people might dismiss it as too hard for the target age range or too slow in the storytelling.
This book offers an opportunity for kids to be exposed to vocabulary that is beyond their capabilities, which is how they grow in the language.
Despite it feeling old, it has all the elements of a great story that can hold the attention of a young child.
One morning Chanticleer awakes feeling disturbed about a dream he had in which a dog-like creature with fur "between yellow and red" and tiped on the tail and ears with black tried to kill him.
His most beloved hen, Partlet, chides him for his fears, so Chanticleer puts them behind him and begins to strut throughout the courtyard crowing proudly.
And like most literary foxes, this one is clever.
Luckily, Chanticleer is not just beautiful, vain, and talented, but there is some wisdom there as well, and he and the fox both learn important lessons.
The lessons still apply today, though.
I'm writing a paper on Barbara Cooney and picked Chanticleer and the Fox as one of her books to focus on.
This book was from the early part of her career where she etched into scratch board to create the detailed black and white illustrations and used color separation to add color.
Open the book so you can see that the front and back cover are one illustration.
As you read, notice how on some pages she uses all four colors and on other pages, she just uses black with red highlights.
Also notice how sometimes the illustrations lead you to turn the page and on other pages, you are invited to linger.
Chanticleer and the Fox is an excellent picture book that is about a rooster who song beautifully like his father rooster did and attracted a sneaky fox from the woods who liked to listen to him sing.
The fox ended up luring the rooster into closing his eyes and singing when the fox then grabbed him and carried him back into the woods.
My only critique of this book would be that is might be a little scary for young children to hear this story.
They may become afraid of the fox and I think that it is a little too dark of humor for very young children.
He escapes by tricking the fox and learns his lesson of deception.Curriculum Connection:Great usage of adjectives that aren't commonly used in picture books.
Also a great way to introduce how flattery can be misleading/deceiving and to trust your instincts (might could integrate this with "Don't Talk to Strangers" theme).Reaction:I can see why this book won a Caldecott Medal.
The front cover is a great way for student's to infer what the story is about and make predictions.Audience: Good for 2-5 grades.
Visual Appeal: The drawings and colors are different than what you see today, so it was a nice change.
My first grader has been listening to stories about Chanticleer, the rooster, in her classroom this year.
A clever fox comes to call one day and takes advantage of Chanticleer's narcissistic behavior.
Who is the cleverest - Chanticleer or the fox?
I rated this book with three stars because of the unfamiliar words and phrasing in the story.
A teacher could read this book aloud to her students and stop periodically to define unfamiliar words.
The illustrations in Chanticleer and the Fox are by Barbara Cooney and have earned the Caldecott Medal.
Barbara's illustrations are richly colored, simplistic, and endearing.
This book was damaged by a patron who wouldn't own up to it!
I told the patron they needed buy us a new one.
She claimed it was that way when she checked it out.
I assured her that we would not put it on the shelf that way.
She claimed it was that way and refused to pay.
Well, They got their way and didn't have to buy us a new one.
)So, this copy with the corner missing and baby dog teeth mark got deleted, so I decided to read it.
We got a nice shiny new copy..come check it out in the Caldecott Section!
