https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862005.The_Mystery_of_the_Fire_Dragon
It also wasn’t written by Mildred Wirt Benson, who wrote many of the Nancy Drew books that I loved.
So Nancy and her friends fly to New York to help solve the mystery.Her friend, George Fayne, dresses up like Chi Che because she looks Chinese.
Anyway, Nancy and her friends get to fly to Hong Kong to solve this mystery, and so the story becomes a little more exciting, as from dull to okay.
They meet Ned, who helps them solve the mystery, or so it seems, but at least it gets solved, and I am now able to read other more exciting books.Note: Written in 1961.
This is the first Nancy Drew book I've read as an adult, and I enjoyed it very much.
I was impressed with Keene's ability to make the mystery somewhat believable (certainly on a YA level), but it was amusing to read that the police went all-out to help Nancy solve the crime, even calling her with updates and allowing her to join them on searches and tails of suspects.
There was certainly a difference in style since this book was written in the 1960's, which means the women all wore dresses and had to stop to make phone calls.

Yet another great addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
This mystery was very good, Nancy's aunt is suspicious when her neighbor disappears without a trace and calls Nancy to investigate the matter. Nancy two best friends Bess and George come along to help and they eventually travel to Hong Kong following clues where they meet up with another friend to try to crack the case.
Since The Leaning Chimney book?Aunt Eloise(!) in NYC has a Chinese-themed mystery (nothing AT ALL to do with a Fire Dragon, though there are fireworks and a few references to dragons as Chinese legend) which conveniently leads Nancy and B&G to Hong Kong, where they were planning on going anyway.
George masquerades as a Chinese girl, but apparently no one notices that she's 5'8".Bess gets kidnapped in NYC, and Nancy gets kidnapped (conned onto a small plane) and Ned and the Navy get them to turn around and land the plane.
To be honest, I just read a whole bunch of Nancy Drew books, and I don't actually remember which one it was in, but so many of them had similar content that I'll just put it here: Why can't they be nicer to Bess?
Or that she was too fat, at which statement every one laughed, Bess blushed, and put down her cookie, and everyone acted like that was an ok way for friends to act.
Again, it might not have been in this one, but this one probably had some commentary about Bess lack of restraint when it comes to food.
Fun read!
It's been a while since I've read one of this series, and I enjoyed the experience.
Easy, fluffy, happy story that makes me wish I lived in a world where I could feel safe & secure about running around on my own while solving mysteries and exploring foreign countries -- knowing that even if you do get into trouble, you'll always discover a clever way of escape or will be rescued by vigilant friends!
But the best part of reading this 182 page story is I finished it in less than a week, and it gets me caught up on my reading challenge!!
Placeholder for reread of Magic Strikes by Ilona Andrews
I think I just wanted to read them in the order they were on the shelf, which for some reason wasn’t in series order, but I remember starting with 40-something lol.The Mystery of the Fire Dragon follows Nancy, Bess, and George as they help Nancy’s aunt and her Chinese neighbors to find the girl Chi Che. Chi Che is the niece of Aunt Eloise’s neighbor.
So that wouldn’t be okay, but at the time it was written it was a more acceptable term.Like I said above, this was just a typical Nancy Drew mystery.
"I'm the real thing." (235)This 1961 story, never updated despite republication, holds up fairly well as a child-oriented adventure.
For example, the constant teasing about Bess's appetite, despite her equally Barbie-like appearance in the illustrations.
The Chinese cultural focus relies somewhat on stereotypes but doesn't strike me as actively insensitive beyond a few slightly colonial perspectives.
Unfortunately, the term "Oriental" appears constantly throughout this text in perhaps the most blatant cultural insensitivity.
And that fact that George, dolled up, apparently looks like the missing Chinese girl.Incidentally, the best thing Nancy Drew ever did was name a girl George.
it was really good but i thought it was the last book. I guess not..
For my goodreads I read The Mystery of the Fire Dragon. This book was a thrilling mystery about a Chinese girl named Chi Che Soong, who was kidnapped. As the story continues,Nancy Drew, George Fayne, and Bess Marvin were staying with her Aunt Eloise in her apartment. Chi Che and her grandfather lived next door to them.  One night, a man came into the Soong’s apartment,and as he shoved Grandpa Soong to the ground, the man stole his manuscript and left. Grandpa Soong at this point, had to be chec
This book was a thrilling mystery about a Chinese girl named Chi Che Soong, who was kidnapped.
One night, a man came into the Soong’s apartment,and as he shoved Grandpa Soong to the ground, the man stole his manuscript and left.
Grandpa Soong at this point, had to be checked into the hospital.
Nancy too, had been kidnapped and taken to a junk ( a boat ) where, for the first time, met Chi Che!
She was thrilled that she found Chi Che, and was determined to get both of them out of there.
Think 1950s when you read this book, although it was written in 1960.
Nancy is busy tracking down a kidnapped girl and her journeys take her to Hong Kong.
When this book was written, Hong Kong was still part of the British Empire.
Some of the language is dated - meaning it isn't politically correct today.
What amazes me is the language with which these books are written.
But yet in 1960, it was a word that teenage girls would know without looking up.
I find many words in the series that kids today wouldn't have a clue as to the definition.
Mr. Soong's granddaughter, Chi Che, has been kidnapped.Meanwhile Nancy's father says he's going to need to go to Hong Kong to work on a case involving a will.Nancy, Bess and George go to New York and almost immediately run into trouble.
Bess ends up being kidnapped then freed.The girls end plan to go to Hong Kong but some thugs threaten to blow up the plane they will be flying in.
In Hong Kong there's more of the thugs, and Nancy is kidnapped.
The British Air Force ends up becoming involved.The entire plot revolves around an illegal smuggling ring and, as usual, everything is tied up nicely at the end of the story.
On one hand, reading The Mystery of the Fire Dragon brought me immediately back to fifth grade, when on Saturdays my parents would go to Costco, and I would be allowed to pick out a set of three new-to-me Nancy Drew novels.
I also have no recollection of reading The Mystery of the Fire Dragon, so it was a new mystery!George, Bess, Mr. Drew, Nancy, even Ned Nickerson and Mrs. Hannah Gruen all were involved.What really astonished me though, was how much the books are not timeless.
I still want to introduce my kids to the Nancy Drew mysteries.
A nostalgic read for the PopSugar 2017 challenge, this book is in a series I devoured when I was in elementary school.
So old-fashioned now...I guess I'm getting old as this was written more than 50 years ago!
On a positive note, it is a book where the female protagonist is fearless, smart and active (even while wearing a dress and sensible pumps), and for that reason might be considered a positive role model for girls during the decade in which it was written.
In this exciting Nancy Drew mystery, Nancy arrives in New York to meet her Aunt, to discover the Miss Drew's neighbor Chi Che, is missing.
Although a note from the girl says she is visiting, another note from Chi Che slipped under Aunt Eloise's door leads Nancy to believe that Chi Che s being held against her will.
Join Nancy Drew as she solves "The Mystery of The Fire Dragon." This was a very enjoyable story, except for one small fact.
Chi Che could have been any where in the world, and Nancy guessed correctly on her whereabouts.
I enjoyed this mystery as I do most of the Nancy Drew books I read.
Oh my, some people take these books too seriously in the reviews!
They are mystery stories for kids, this one written in 1961, so of course it's dated and such!
That's part of the fun, before Hong Kong and it's people started to look and act like all other large cities in the world.
It's a typical, face-paced Nancy Drew Mystery with whirl-wind trips to New York City and Hong Kong, a used bookstore, a great masquerade by George as a young Chinese woman, not once but twice and a rescue by the Fleet Air Arm of the British Royal Navy!
I really liked this book. Nancy drew has really gotten me into reading and stuff so, I owe it to Carolyn Keene. She did an amazing job creating the story, the characters, everything. I think she did an exceptional job on the mystery part because it really makes you think. They make you want to keep reading it. The character, nancy. I'd always thought she was so cool. I meal who else runs around solving mysteries? She was nice, smart and a great role model. I have to say, I love nancy drew, I always have. I always will!!
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
I was reminded of this book while discussing my brother-in-law's trip to Hong Kong today. And by reminded, I mean that as soon as Laurie finished telling us Matthew's description of transportation in Hong Kong, my aunt said "Everything I know about Hong Kong I learned..." and we finished in unison and with great glee, "...from Nancy Drew!" And the Nancy Drew descriptions really did match what Laurie had been telling us.I haven't read it in many, many years, but obviously it was memorable. :-)
I haven't read a Nancy Drew Mystery in years, and this was just as fun as I remember...allowing for a lot of shuddering over the total non-PC-ness of the story. Nancy Drew goes to New York City, takes Chinatown by storm, flies to Hong Kong and solves a mystery for the police and, presumably, US Customs. Fun, and really silly.
I enjoyed reading this Nancy Drew in particular while thinking about my niece finishing up her year of study abroad in China. It's true that a lot of the stereotypes and terms used are now considered politically incorrect, but that's what happens when time moves on. Anyway, I enjoyed this particular mystery in my summer of satisfying sleuthing stories.
Ha ha another classic Nancy Drew mystery. Nancy is kidnapped twice and knocked out once. Ned uses the Navy to rescue her lol. You can definitely tell this was written in a different era. There were definitely some wince inducing parts.
Nancy Visits her Aunt Eloise in New York to help her solve the mystery behind the disappearance of her neighbors granddaughter Chi Che Soong. Nancy soon believes Chi Che was kidnapped and is being held prisoner by smugglers!
Another fun and quick read, typical Nancy Drew, getting into one dangerous situation after another and never learning her lesson ... but always "getting her man" in the end. Some fun along the way, and a little Chinese history in this one.
Pretty good book. I like the history lesson that comes with the books. You get a bit of what it was like in the time period the book was written. for instance it mentions the new state capitol of Alaska...Juneau. Was Juno really spelled the French way?
Either I'm spending more time away from these books and feeling less bombarded by repetition or the series is becoming much more interesting! This book had a pretty good plot and was less like all the others before.
Nancy Drew is a dectective and is very good at her job. She travels to New York City to solve the Mystery of the Fire Dragon. Very good read i had to read for a book report and didnt think i would like it but once i started reading it i loved it and couldnt stop.
