https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781844.On_Death_and_Dying
This book is a sample of three seminars about life, death and the transition between both delivered by Dr. Kübler-Ross, an eminence in Near-death studies and a pioneer in researching the five stages of grief.
Ross’ work mingles spirituality with rigorous science and has helped hundreds of dying people of all ages, particularly children, and their families to make peace with death and to accept it as a door to another sort of existence.According to Dr. Ross’ observations, right after death, the body becomes an empty chrysalis and some sort of spiritual energy that was retained in life is set free; using Dr.Ross' simile, like a worm which has undergone a transformation and become a butterfly that all of a sudden has wings to fly.
To begin this review, an important quote about the way we train doctors to interact with patients:"What happens in a society that puts more emphasis on IQ and class-standing than on simple matters of tact, sensitivity, perceptiveness, and good taste in the management of the suffering?
I will end this review with a final quote that resonated with me:"Those who have the strength and the love to sit with a dying patient in the silence that goes beyond words will know that this moment is neither frightening nor painful, but a peaceful cessation of the functioning of the body.
To be a therapist to a dying patient makes us aware of the uniqueness of each individual in this vast sea of humanity.
In this remarkable book, Dr. Kübler-Ross first explored the now-famous five stages of death: denial and isolation, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.
Through sample interviews and conversations, she gives the reader a better understanding of how imminent death affects the patient, the professionals who serve that patient, and the patient's family, bringing hope to all who are involved.On Death and Dying isn't the kind of book I normally read - much less review - but it's such an important, powerful work that I feel it needs to be shared in hopes that others will benefit from the insights and wisdom found within.This is a well written, compassionate but honest collection of interviews with dying patients and their families, the purpose of this study/book being to help both deal with the emotions and the many phases of death they will face.
I took a class called "Death and Dying" in 1993 or 1994 and this was our textbook.The class and the book changed my entire viewpoint on death, grief, letting go...everything.
It was, hands-down, the best, most useful, most enlightening class I took in my undergrad career.I kept all my literature books, my Chaucer compendium, and my Shakespeare plays and I kept this book.
Moreover, I kept all the notes from this class because I knew I would need them someday.
I need them all now and I can't find the book or the folder full of notes.
Having recently lost my husband, I felt compelled to re-read this classic study by Dr. Kubler-Ross who I had the privilege of meeting and dining with several years ago.
This groundbreaking work describes the now well known stages of grief: denial and isolationism, bargaining, depression, anger, and acceptance.
She uses personal interviews with the grief stricken, some of which are heartbreaking.
It is the rare person who does not experience these emotions albeit somewhat briefly and not necessarily in the order in which they are listed.I highly recommend this book to all readers, even if they have not had a recent death of friend or family.
افرادی که برای ماندن در کنار بیمار رو به مرگ از قدرت و عشقی آنچنانی برخوردار باشند، در این لحظه، لحظهای که سکوت از واژگان درمیگذرد خواهند دید که واقعه نه ترسناک است و نه دردناک، بلکه فقط توقف آرام کارکرد جسم آدمیست. تماشای مرگ یک انسان، آدمی را به یاد شهاب ثاقب میاندازد، یکی از میلیونها نقطهی نورانیِ نشسته در دلِ آسمان پهناور که لحظهای مختصر شعله میکشد و دمی بعد در شب بینهایت فرو میروددربارهی کتابخود را بگذارید جای دانشجوی رشته پزشکی، پرستاری، مددکاری یا حتی الهیات عملی که روزی الزاما با بیمار ب

It took me a while to get through this one for obvious reasons. I kind of got through most of the sections as I was going through them, although I am still in the middle of this process and reading of the whole process is beginning to help. Grief is not a straight line but rather a series of knots that I find myself having to untie again and again; I am moving through it and I have no idea where I'm going but I'm going there.
Sooo interesting...
Kubler-Ross contends that every person adjusting to the idea of death goes through five stages (though they may bounce back and forth, skip ahead, etc., everyone hits all five at some point).
They are: Denial, Bargaining, Anger, Depression, Acceptance.I read this book probably over 10 years ago, and I still think of it.
The most interesting part of all?
From my observation over those years, I believe that we all go through these five stages in adjusting to ANYTHING that sucks, not just death (which is obviously the most extreme example of suckiness).Now I feel all morbid.
I decided to read this well-known book to understand the grieving process.
I was surprised to read about anticipatory grief which, I now realize, is what I have been going through for the last 10 months and in particular in the last 5+ months since the diagnosis was confirmed.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is currently going through this significant event and life-changing situation ~ whether you are the one who has the illness or the one who is living and caring and loving the patient.
This book will assist you in doing that.
A study of how people react towards death. The commonly known 'five-stages' model is outlined here, and many case studies and examples and described in depth. Morbid and necessary reading, to understand the psychology of our own grief and extinction.
I am more than grateful for you Dr. Kubler-Ross! Though it was not easy at all, but your life quest on death and dying really helped me in very sensitive situations I have been dealing with! Thank you! "...and the stars seemed like the burning tears of that ignorant darkness." #Tagore
I read this sooooooooooooooo many years ago --- I wonder if I should read it again. I use to own it!
در قدح آب نورانی است آب دریا اما تار استحقیقت کوچک را واژگانی است روشنحقیقت بزرگ را اما سکوتی بزرگ است
I suppose the introduction of the five stages of grief is pretty monumental and I have to give it credit for that.
I never understood where anger fit into my current and past experiences of grief, but its expression as envy made a lot of sense.
I haven't had many experiences where I feared for my life.
Also, her questions of why we can't incorporate death into our daily lives are pretty challenging and very, very wise.
We would be so much better off seeing death if we didn't let our fear of it dehumanize the dying.
Worthwhile read if you're interested in this topic; ie end of life, the culture of taboo and defensiveness when it comes to death and mortality, discussing death with people, children etc., doctor-patient relationship as highly significant (just as much as doctor's actual knowledge) The first two chapters are wonderful with some thoughtful observations about society and human nature's encounter with mortality - one that I liked (p16) "When we look back in time and study old cultures and people, we are impressed that death has always been distasteful to man and probably always will be.
It has become cliché to say we live in a society that denies death.
From her experiences with dying patients, Elisabeth Kubler-Ross sheds insight into how we face, or not face, death.
These Five Stages, for better or worse, have become the model from which academics and lay people understand the process of dying.
If we deny it or even just neglect it, our lives become incomplete.
When death becomes an integral part of our beings, our lives become more dynamic.
This book came at a time in my life when I had the real opportunity to talk with the sick and the dying in my posting in a pain and palliative care unit.
A kind friend lent me the book and I'm truly grateful.The author speaks carefully and eloquently of the importance of listening to the patients and just giving them your time and not hurrying past them.
Do read this book - because you're a human being and not because you're a doctor or a patient but because it is important to not fear death or the dying.
Finally, the last outdated, rage-inducing part of this book was the use of the word ‘negro’ that felt so out of place and so wrong in the context that it made me extremely uncomfortable and judging how hard as a world we have to fight against racism if it might be a plan to edit such words out of texts that are supposed to be open-minded.Now all these things aside, On Death and Dying made for a truly interesting read, not least of all because it reveals the origins of what we take now for granted as the five stages of grief: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.
I read this book 30 years ago.
It was recommended I read it -- and for the life of me can't remember who recommended it -- but I'm glad whoever and wherever they are, they did.
In my opinion, to have compassion for the dying, and also for those who have lost someone they care about to death, is one of the highest expressions of humanity.
The wisdom in this book now considered a classic on death and dying widened my perspective and understanding what we all must go through, eventually.
The topic is extremely important, and many concepts put forward here have become heuristics of medical education about how to talk to dying patients (e.g., use simple, straight forward language including the word death; sit down; find a quiet spot to tell people bad news; make sure all the important people are present).So, why did I say it was ok rather than great despite its obvious importance?
Those in the Middle Ages died in wars, at the hands of masters, of infectious disease, through torture or childbirth, in unexpected, horrible, and often painful ways.
Ross headed a study in the 1960s where she and a team of students, doctors, and clergy interviewed patients who were suffering from various maladies with low to fair prognosis.
Some interviewed were family members of the patients.
Ross covered the various stages of death and grief and the effects on patients, family, and attending medical staff.
Some were able to handle news of their prognosis better than others.
Everyone handles death and grief a little different but most go through the basic stages of denial and isolation, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.
One of those comfortable books,that I re-read as my partner of 39 years lay dying from bone cancer in the magnificent Princess Margaret Cancer Palliative care unit,in Toronto, were he was treated with great love, care and compassion, in spite of very little of what we like to call "Quality of life" he was cared with much love.
much of the care given there, originated with this great book.Sorry if I digress, but it has been a rough ride these past few weeks, Robert is at peace and pain-free.
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND ON DEATH AND DYING!!I read On Death and Dying way back in 1986 when my father was dying with Lung Cancer.
I just recently re read it becasue of a shocking accidental death in my family.
This book helped me today as much as it did 28yrs ago.
If you are going through the grief process or if you are supporting someone who is dying, This book is a must have an will greatly help you!!
It written with the average person in mind.
The narrative comes across for even young teens.
I highly recommend On Death and Dying.
Just 20 pages to the book, and I already give this masterpiece 5 stars... A must-read book for everybody.
Certainly our contemporary hospice movement, 24 hour visitation policies, home health care options and the more 'people centered' approach to treatment have their roots in the work Kubler-Ross did with terminally ill patients in the 1960s and 70s.Reading the interviews in this book was a very sad experience because most of the patients seemed to be lonely and isolated from their families due to rigid hospital rules and clinical attendants who did not seem to take their patients' emotional needs into consideration.
Книга  “О смерти и умирании”  (On Death and Dying) о процессе умирания, о том, как человек постепенно отрешается от жизни.Вот как автор Элизабет Кюблер-Росс определяет основной смысл книги:  Эта книга послужит одной-единственной цели - обострить чуткость членов семьи к смертельно больному, а больничного персонала - к неявным, невысказанным желаниям умирающих Я читал книгу как практический конспект, который может понадобиться практически каждому человеку.Книга “О смерти и умирании” не из легких,
(On Death and Dying) о процессе умирания, о том, как человек постепенно отрешается от жизни.Вот как автор Элизабет Кюблер-Росс определяет основной смысл книги: 
Я читал книгу как практический конспект, который может понадобиться практически каждому человеку.Книга “О смерти и умирании” не из легких, но написана простым языком (без медицинских терминов).
Получат распространение и другие центры, где умерших будут быстро замораживать и размещать в специальных сооружениях в ожидании того дня, когда наука и технологии станут достаточно развитыми, чтобы разморозить тела и вернуть их к жизни в обществе.
Что касается общества, то оно к тому времени может оказаться настолько перенаселенным, что только особые комиссии будут решать, сколько людей можно разморозить.
Почитать книгу “О смерти и умирании” онлайн можно здесь.
I read this book, and wished, oh I wished, that I had read it when my mother was dying.
When my mom was dying, we met all sorts of doctors: the doctors that gave no hope and the doctors that were positive.
I also felt, while walking home last night, that after reading this book I was less afraid of my own eventual death.
I am thankful that this book helped spur the creation of hospice care.
I can't imagine what my mother's death would have been like without it.
This book was very, very important.
I don't know if it's to do with being an archaeologist (or, rather, a former archaeologist) and studying what dead people have left behind, including the evidence available in their bones, and the exhumation of graves and burial grounds that many archaeologists wind up doing as contract work which makes me so comfortable talking about death.
For that reason I found this book helpful because it made it clear to me that this is something that the vast majority of people struggle with, regardless of whether they're the person dying, or a relative or caregiver.
This is an incredible, amazing book and everyone should read it.
I've been meaning to read this book for several years now.
While I understand its importance in the literature of patient care and am glad that I finally read it, I couldn't help feeling that there was so much that could have been expanded upon.
For example, the interviews that she included were interesting, but sometimes a little hard to follow because they were literal transcripts of her conversations with patients and didn't convey very well the emotion of the patients (and her talk of this patient's anger and that patient's attitude of denial seemed dissociated from the conversation I'd just read).
This book has helped me better understand the feelings and emotions of the dying.
On Death and Dying might be one of those books that you might want to re-read several times just to not be oblivious and forgetful of our inevitable fate-death.
“Those who have the strength and the love to sit with a dying patient in the silence that goes beyond words will know that this moment is neither frightening nor painful, but a peaceful cessation of the functioning of the body.
Watching a peaceful death of a human being reminds us of a falling star; one of a million lights in a vast sky that flares up for a brief moment”
