https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/562714.Into_That_Darkness
Sereny incontra in carcere Franz Stangl, che fu il Kommandant di Treblinka per quasi tutto il periodo di “attività” del campo, e prima, dal marzo all’agosto 1942, il comandante di un altro campo di sterminio, Sobibor, e andando ancora indietro, coinvolto in prima persona nel Programma Eutanasia.Una carriera davvero ‘illuminante’.Lo incontra in carcere e lo intervista per ore e giorni e settimane.
She was an intellectually tough woman who spent a good part of her long life staring evil right in the eyes - take a look at her main books :Into That Darkness - an account of the life of Fritz Stangl, commandant of Treblinka, who escaped after the war and was arrested in Brazil in 1967, and became the only commandant of a death camp ever to have been interviewed by a journalist.
She paid Mary for her time spent being interviewed in the 1990s and when that fact became public the press, as you may imagine, began frothing at the mouth.
The author of Into the Darkness conducts a series of interviews with Franz Stangl, the kommandant of Treblinka and various people who knew him, including one Jewish man who survived the death camp.
The book also studies the role the Vatican played in helping former Nazis to escape.
His conscience thus had two get out clauses - that he never physically harmed anyone (perhaps true) and that there was nothing he could do to escape his fate without putting at risk the lives of his family (probably untrue: there's no evidence Nazis were ever killed for requesting a transfer).
Together with a handful of former inmates this book offers a reconstruction of life and death in the Treblinka camp, which in four phases becomes 'more manageable' as some SS saw the tide turn in the East and realized the possible post-war dividends of small leniency.
Extermination camp, uprising.
Add to that the fact that Stangl worked for the T4 program and that he made it to Brazil thanks to some help of a certain Roman cardinal and the whole book evolves into a razor-sharp mythbuster of the entire Holocaust and the adjunct "Odessa" escape network.
This is one of the most incredible Holocaust books I have come across to date. It is about so much more than author  Gitta Sereny's  conversations with  Franz Stangl  ( Commandant of Treblinka ). These conversations (conducted while Stangl was in Düsseldorf prison) give us a narrative around which Sereny integrates her exceptional research, outside interviews and experiences. Sereny manages to be both our guide and an appropriately impartial observer of the events described (and is open in descr
). These conversations (conducted while Stangl was in Düsseldorf prison) give us a narrative around which Sereny integrates her exceptional research, outside interviews and experiences.
Written in 1972, this book seeks to address facts that "have become blurred" and the claims of "chroniclers...who will have us believe that the extermination of the Jews was almost an accidental development, somehow forced upon the Nazi's by circumstance" (p.93).
This concept is illustrated time and again in Stangl's perception of his actions at Treblinka.
Stangl's wife, Therese, recounts a conversation with her husband she had after he received his appointment at the Sobibor extermination camp: 
It is no surprise that 19 hours after his admission to Sereny, Stangl feel dead of heart failure.In what readers will probably find the most controversial aspect of the book Sereny makes quite clear that she believes Pope Pius XXII knew about what was going on in Poland and did next to nothing to help.
It's clear, however, that Sereny believes he failed humanity.My only issue with the book is that Sereny tries a bit too hard to footnote and (over)explain every detail that arises.
He kept a tally of every train and the number of people in every boxcar from the day of the arrival of the first Jews until August 18, 1943, when the final transports pulled into the station.Fritz Stangl presided over this whole operation from the construction of the camp buildings and charnel houses to the final dismantling the gas chambers and dispersal of the troops to other sites.
The bodies were cremated, and the ashes given to their relations.Many of the people who went on to work in the death camps got their start in the euthanasia program.
På grund av sina kontakter med den franska motståndsrörelsen lämnade hon det ockuperade Frankrike och har ägnat en stor del av sitt liv åt att söka ondskans kärna.
Sereny avled sommaren 2012 och lämnar i "Vid avgrunden" efter sig ett omfattande grävande efter orsaksmekanismer som föder ett monster.En kärleksfull småbarnspappa lämnade hemmet för att bakom "den slutgiltiga lösningens" ridåer bli en hänsynslös kommendant.
Från sin plats på en höjd såg en propert klädd Stangl hur människorna reducerades till ”en naken massa av kött” - vid det stadiet var familjefadern som bortblåst och kommendanten stod rak i ryggen på dagen och dövade den moraliska kollapsen på natten.
Ovo je knjiga koju sam najduže čitala.
Postavljeni cilj tog programa bio je navodno olakšanje, ali stvarna svrha zapravo je bilo masovno ubijanje pod krinkom eutanazije.
Kao velikom ljubitelju povijesti i Drugog svjetskog rata,sjajno je što ova knjiga detaljno opisuje razliku između logora istrjebljenja i konclogora.
Većina ljudi misli kako je Auschwitz služio isključivo kao logor za istrjebljenje, ali ti ljudi nisu pročitali ovu knjigu.
Obećala sam samoj sebi kako ću ovu knjigu još jednom pročitati i napisati poprilično detaljnu recenziju u kojoj ću obuhvatiti i ulogu Crkve u ovoj crnoj povijesti 20.
I found it chilling when he described his normal working day at Treblinka, the paperwork that he completed in his office while a few metres away Men, women and children from all over Europe were being gassed in the gas chambers.
When I read any books on this subject I am always thinking, what would I have done if I was one of those mothers being led to the gas chambers with my children?
Dark forces can seize control and can become institutionalized to the degree where a normal human being can feel the utter futility of standing up to what appear to be insurmountable odds, so one resigns oneself to becoming a bureaucrat in service to unimaginable evil and destructiveness.
This is a story that reminds us to be vigilant as human beings about staying conscious of the forces of bigotry and hatred and scapegoating that allow what are once small stirrings in everyone's psyche to becoming cogs on the wheels of the machinery of incomprehensible brutality and evil.
It is really difficult to give this book five stars because its content is so repugnant and disturbing.
one is gripped by a profound existential nausea." And I did feel sick to my stomach while reading much of this book - but it is important precisely because it serves as a most necessary reminder that each and every one of us is capable of deep good and profound evil.
This requires an understanding of how evil is allowed to persist.
For any student of human rights, the Holocaust, or genocide, this is difficult, but essential reading.
I don't doubt that my reading of this book was colored by these other Summer readings.Into That Darkness is written by Gitta Sereny who interviewed Franz Stangl (the commandant of Treblinka) while he was in prison.
Stangl had escaped Germany at the end of WWII and was living in Brazil in 1967 when he was arrested outside his home, extradited to West Germany, and sentenced to life in prison for his involvement in the deaths of 900,000 people.
If he had resisted, it could have gotten him killed and it would not have stopped the program.
He said he didn't like signing the paper but as she questioned him, "So signing this document wasn't really all that difficult, was it?" Stangl saw this as a compromise he had to make to keep his job and more-to keep his life.
Later Stangl relates an encounter with a Catholic nun, a Mother Superior, and a priest.
"Here was a Catholic nun, a Mother Superior, and a priest.
Who was I then, to doubt what was being done?" This book documents the terrible small steps that make up the inexorable slide in to accepting and doing the unthinkable and the results that inevitably ensue.
Gitta Sereny, who recently died, was a writer who did extensive interviews with former Nazi officials.
Sereny wins his trust, and the portrait is fascinating.
Not particularly anti-Semitic, not the cruelest SS officer around, the Austrian Stangl finds himself through sheer ambition and cowardice rising through the ranks, first in the Euthanasia program “T4”, then coordinating industrialized mass murder.
A good deal of the book is a scandalous indictment of the Catholic Church’s role in the Nazi murder programs, first with its tepid intervention against T4, the Pope’s near-silence on the murder of Europe’s Jews and finally aiding Nazis escaping Europe.

Every morning trains would roll into Treblinka station, which had been mocked-up to look like a real train station with flower boxes and a fake painted station clock with hands that never moved (Stangl’s idea) to lull the new arrivals into a sense of calm - they probably imagined upon seeing it, that nothing bad was going to happen to them, that they were simply going to be processed and then assigned some work.
At least, this was the scenario for days delivering only western Jews to Treblinka; those arriving from the east in cattle trucks were herded viciously by sadistic guards who beat and whipped them into hysteria and ferociously drove them like animals through their final terror-stricken hours.
After the war, Stangl escaped justice for over a decade, though he made little effort to hide himself; he settled in Brazil with his family and never took an assumed name.When Stangl was finally caught and brought to trial, he accepted no guilt, stubbornly insisting that he was just a man who had done his duty.
When asked about the ultimate fate of prisoners whom he's spoken about with affection, Stangl's answer was always the same; 'I don't know,' though he surely could have guessed.Stangl lived with what he'd done for decades.
Large potions of the text belong to the survivors of Treblinka, and this is a counterbalance to Stangl; the horror of life there is thoroughly represented, but how he lied to himself and managed to function as Kommandant is clear too; then a third weight - historical record - is set against them both.
This could have swayed too far in favour of its subject, or read as an excoriation of him from a pulpit, but what Sereny manages is much finer and more difficult and exquisitely balanced.I'll be thinking about this book for a long time.
This was a very interesting look at Franz Stangl,Interviewed when serving life sentence for war crimes.Many think that 800.000 thousand to 1.2 million dead should have been death for him self ( I do not believe that Germany has the death sentence)Moving along it was interesting to read interviews with him and also Frau Stangl,about this time,Including Vatican involvement, and the fact that he never was hiding always in open .for all to see and find.A very complex man and very good book,considering the subject!
Even more amazing, to me, was the testimony of some camp survivors who condemned Stangl as horrible for his role as commandant over the camps, but as an interpersonally polite person, being nowhere near as vile in his conduct as Christian Wirth or Odilo Globocnik.
Stangl, on the other hand, seems like a much more broken psyche perpetually at war with what he did; this makes him all the more frightening, because he's far closer in mentality to people who were "just carrying out orders." It's hard to even fathom the degree of inconsistency in Stangl's person, and how his own resolution of his atrocities next to his sense of propriety functioned.
(The book is based on seventy hours of interviews she did with him while he was in prison in Austria in 1971.) For me, journalism is all about the ability to gain an interviewee's trust while withholding one's own.
She attempts to interview everyone who can corroborate what Stangl is telling her.Thirdly, she amasses enough material and understanding of his story to be able to judge him.
This book has shown me something: it has made me see how, in the racism of its instigators and the culpability of everyone who allowed it to happen, the holocaust led to post-modernism in that we can no longer say what it is to be a good man.
Gitta Sereny's book is a thoughtful, scrupulously researched look into the heart of darkness, providing a psychological portrait of Franz Stangl, a man responsible for managing the business of running various of Hitler's death "camps," as the Nazis perversely called their death factories, where the business of killing on a massive scale was carried out routinely with deliberate, carefully designed intent.
Like better served over hot coffee and breakfast first thing in the morning, or later in the day perhaps with tea, or after dinner with drinks, or in the middle of the night when belief is suspended?
Into the Darkness is based on extensive interviews with Franz Stangl as well as numerous other former Nazi officials as well as survivors, civilians, and religious researchers and figures.
She kept things largely chronological, which was good, but the church stuff is so impersonal and arcane in contrast with the personal details of Stangl and his wife.
Those sections of the book are largely a character study, and by the end Sereny's left a very good impression of a man who's deluded himself and a wife who reconciled herself with the delusions, the kinds of tiny compromises that made up the biggest one, the microscopic ways that a person can chip away at their own soul by simply not stepping out of line.
An extraordinary and shattering book — a study of Franz Stangl, commandant of the Nazis' Treblinka death camp, and inevitably a storehouse of glimpses of life and death, and of shocking callousness and surprising bravery inside that camp.Sereny took criticism in some early reviews for getting too close to some of her subjects.
He said simply that the Nazis wanted the victims' money.Balanced against any weaknesses of the book is the ample evidence that Sereny went to great efforts to verify things she was told by Stangl and by others.
Ormai la sensibilità e la professionalità di Gitta Sereny, eccellente giornalista e scrittrice, non mi stupiscono più, e come spesso succede ho forse finito per aspettarmi troppo da lei, soprattutto in questo che credo sia il suo libro più importante e conosciuto.
Tutta la parte dedicata alla ricostruzione degli eventi, attraverso le parole di Stangl, della sua famiglia (la più agghiacciante secondo me è la moglie, che mi è sembrata di un'ipocrisia allucinante) e di diversi sopravvissuti e testimoni oculari, è molto interessante e istruttiva.
È per via di questa seconda parte, che a mio parere poteva essere alquanto più sintetica, che non ho attribuito a questo libro il punteggio pieno che forse avrebbe meritato.
A remarkable and chilling deep dive into the life and relationships of a seemingly ordinary man who nevertheless lived a life both monstrous and banal. It explores the lies we tell others and more importantly the lies we tell ourselves.
It's not "the banality of evil," it's not "evil incarnate," it's the life of a man who knew he was guilty but managed to persuade himself he was not.Franz Stangl was the commandant of Treblinka, one of the four "extermination" camps the Nazis created in Poland.
After a morning of hearing the same excuses that came out of all Nazi commanders' mouths, Sereny faced Stangl in the afternoon with an ultimatum.
Stangl wasn't that much different than an average Austrian in his time period.
She even i\nterviews Stangl's wife, living in Brazil - with him until he was captured and taken to Germany.As well as simply relating words, Sereny describes the man as he talks.
73Over 200 pages later, having thoroughly reviewed what happened in the Death Camps, and the role that the Catholic Church played during that time she comes to a conclusion:"Having examined again the reasons for the silence of Pope Pius XII, and disregarding for a moment the indisputable moral obligation, we must ask the tragic question whether, if the Pope from the very beginning had taken a decisive stand against euthanasia, against the systemic debilitation by forced labour, starvation, sterilization and the murder of the Eastern European populations, and finally against the extermination of the Jews, this could have affected the conscience of individual Catholics who were directly or indirectly implicated in these matters, enough to force the Nazis to change their policies.
this is NOT a light or quick read.
it is based on extensive interviews with Franz, his family, "coworkers", survivors and those who guarded him during his own time in prison.
this provides insight into how one man changed/evolved from a "normal" man to a man responsible for the mass murdering of hundreds of thousands (millions?) of people.
it was such an emotionally intense book that i felt overwhelmed at times.
it should be required reading - perhaps for high school seniors.
just to make everyone aware of our social & ethical responsibilities to society as a whole.
