https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760111.Dark_Apprentice
I can’t believe I never knew how bad this was when I read it fourteen years ago.
I mean, this is just BAD WRITING 101.
If I was teaching a How to Write Fiction class, I would use this book as the perfect example of what NOT to do.This is going to be a bit different than my normal reviewing style; I’m going to do one with actual quotes and stuff, because I attacked my copy of the book with a pen and wrote angry profane notes the whole time I was reading, and I don’t want all that effort to go to waste.
Meanwhile, a mission fails, causing Ackbar to leave his command in shame, and Daala decides to wreak havoc on the New Republic.NOTE: I listened to the audio book, and it was abridged so some scenes I may have A) forgotten since I last read the book and B) have not heard because they omitted it from the audiobook.I Liked:The last book was called Jedi Search, but honestly, it mostly focused on Han Solo and Kyp Durron.
If my dad did that...well...yeah.Luke sees Gantoris (and later Kyp) has problems with the Dark Side and just decides to ignore it.
The Good: This second outing is just as much spacefaring fun as the first one. The ending makes me glad I have the next and final installment already on hand. I liked the writing as well.The Bad: Nothing, really; I just save the highest score for truly amazing works.Conclusion: The Star Wars Expanded Universe has been around so long that everyone has already formed an opinion on it. If you've read other books in the series, and enjoyed them, you'll probably like this one, too.
FIRST THOUGHTS: I think the reason I preferred this one over the first is because I'm already familiar with the general set-up of the world and with the characters. It's certainly a strong second book for this series, and I became solidly invested in many of the plots.
More basic sci-fi entertainment from the Star Wars Universe. I enjoyed it and look forward to the conclusion of the trilogy.
In most ways it is a definite step up from Jedi Search, just in terms of pacing and narrative engagment, but at the same time much of what happens doesn’t seem to mesh well with what we’ve been told in the previous book.
It does not sit right.It feels like Anderson was building one character to turn to the dark side and the buildup was organic and natural.
Then that character is tossed aside for the one who just doesn’t mesh and that part of the story seems like a bust.
The theme of this book is to trust and believe. In this book, Luke Skywalker is training the next generation of Jedi. He trusts them with his life, and when his new student Kyp Durron does not trust master's training, he is consumed by the darkness, and nearly destroys him.
In dramatic radio announcer voice:You’ve seen the movies.
You’ve read the books.
Now experience the next exciting chapter in the Star Wars saga: Dark Apprentice, by Kevin J.
Because sometimes the occasion requires a Star Wars novel.
I mean, we already know it’s a Star Wars novel, we don’t need to be reminded – over and over – about “the power of the Dark Side.” At least phrase it differently.He also repeats his own similes – twice he described blast doors on Calamari as a “diagonal mouth.” What, he can’t come up with something different to keep the prose from being repetitive?
I mean, she’s had 10 years to think it over while isolated at the Maw Installation.Also references a comic book series (Dark Empire II, I believe) and a short story from Tales From Mos Eisley Cantina (The Sand Tender: The Hammerhead’s Tale).
Much more enjoyable than Jedi Search, but there were still a few moments that made me question the how much research the author did before writing these books.
In the Timothy Zahn books, I always felt like the various aspects made sense within the context of the Star Wars universe.
Throughout this series, I am constantly noticing elements that do not fit with what has been established before and since these were written.
Watching a Jedi trying to justify his descent to the dark side always makes for a fun read.
I have high hopes for the ending of this series.
Hello goodreaders!This was a great book, in fact the entire Jedi Academy trilogy is fantastic, I won't give it 5 stars, but it was still really good. In establishing the Jedi Academy, Luke Skywalker learns more and more about the Force and how to use it. I really enjoy all the abilities each Padawan has. This series is action packed and drama filled.This trilogy is worth looking at.Happy reading.
The best part of this book was "The Little Lost Bantha Cub", a galactic bedtime story Han Solo shares with his kids. (Later on they get lost and reenact it until someone nice finds them and sends them home.)http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/The_Li...Notes:Kaylle on fanfiction.net finished the story. I'm including it here so if I ever have babies I can find it again. https://www.fanfiction.net/s/2834224/...
The continuation of the series, in this installment things become complicated by a rogue Imperial force that is attacking planets in the new republic. Also, as Luke continues his training of the new Jedi, things get scary when one of his students is seduced by the dark side and unleashes power beyond his control.
2.7 stars. Probably Anderson's worst yet. Several illogical sub-plots thrown in just to trigger necessary plot development. A lot read like filler to bring up the page count. Nice cliff-hanger ending, requiring the reader to read the next book.
Meh. This was, I think, too many stories wrapped into one novel. Also, damn Kyp, jumped the shark a bit, didn't cha?
On the pro side, he's great at world-building and describing new planets or cities that we have not encountered in the Star Wars Universe up to now.
The Maw Installation, Yavin 4, Calamari, the undercity in Coruscant are all very interesting creations.
The campiness is a little hard to avoid just because it's part of the charm of Star Wars, and threading the needle between charming and unbelievable.
Lastly, sabacc is a game that is talked about a lot in Star Wars novels so I was happy to see it explained in a little more detail in this book.
But she's crazy from cabin fever by sticking around in the Maw Installation for many years and that makes her incompetent as an officer.
Enjoyed those story lines.Luke and the events at the academy were still fresh in my mind from reading I, Jedi about a year ago.
But it was better to read them in this book than out of Corran's point of view because you get the full picture as to the strange events going on caused by Exar Kun. And Corran hasn't even been mentioned by name.
In retrospect I think I, Jedi should be read after this trilogy, or IMHO, not at all.
I felt the whole Kyp and Han go skiing was pointless, Han playing the card game sabacc with Lando using the most stupid set of rules imagined, and plenty of moments where C3P0 is babysitting Jacen and Jaina.Gantoris was set up to potentially be a great character in the previous book.
He barely went through any substantial amount of training before turning against Luke because he felt he was being held back.The lack of focus on the real plot points made everything less dramatic as it should have been.
Too long was spent on mundane events like playing cards and babysitting, making it a rather dull book.
Like with the first book in the trilogy, there is a lot going on here.
Don't read the sizeable blurbs on the back of these books, they're full of spoilers.In a way, I quite like seeing an naive and inexperienced Luke Skywalker attempting to kick-start the Jedi academy.
These guys are supposed to be Jedi not a bunch of hippies.
It's always interesting to see what's going on down there, even if the whole stint didn't really amount to much.The other main theme throughout this book is the ownership of the Millennium Falcon as Han and Lando repeatedly gamble for her.
At the time of its release I could see how this concept could be really cool.
The mind set of the titular dark apprentice is kind of interesting, when taken how early this book came out in the Star Wars old canon, with what we saw of people falling to the dark side.
It was something different for its time.
However there are some excruciating parts of this book.
Also Luke feel like hes not even the same person.
I get that he is just starting out but he feels ineffective and almost useless.
It barley made it to three stars.
Even though this series went exactly where I thought it was going with Kyp, I still enjoyed this book more than the first.
Maybe it's because I knew basically where all the moving parts were.
I just had to sit back and let it go at it's own pace.At every turn resurrecting the Jedi seems like a bad idea.
Jedi always lead to Sith.
It's too much power for some people.I still feel bad for the Solos.
They need to abandon the Republic and go have a life somewhere else.
I feel like this is at least the second series to have him play that part.
My experience was uneven: At times I enjoyed reading this and other times not. There were several subplots, some of which did not seem related (the twins; what is their purpose in this book?). Also nothing was resolved (disadvantage of a 2nd book in a trilogy). Some depressing stuff including random destruction of a colony (just to "make a point"?). You know something bad is going to happen when the author tells how wonderful a character is feeling. This became annoyingly predictable.Major themes: hubris, self-deception, misguided striving for power.
While the plot of this story and this trilogy interested me I have found myself disappointed by the writing and execution so far, particularly in this novel, which is a very rare feeling for me in regards to the star wars EU (having read all of new jedi order and everything after as well as most novels set before this trilogy) which for the most part up til now has been almost perfect. Very underwhelmed and nervous for book 3 and the young jedi knights series which were next on my list to read, though I will trudge on
I read the first of this series, seemed OK, albeit a bit silly at points, but this second book - I can't finish it, the characters make illogical decisions, it seems entirely devoid of thought. I actually created the account on Goodreads just to tell people not to read this book.. well, you can, but only if you like a universe filled with purposeless, random homicidal maniacs. Bought for 50p at the charity stop, wasn't worth the money.
I give it an 8/10 because the book fills in a lot holes that the movies didn't answer like what happened to the empire? or what is luke doing after defeating the emperor? And now we see luke as the new grand master of the jedi now ad how he has become more powerful ans how he finds the same darkness that comsumed his father is back and spreading like a sickness
Took me way too long to get into this one. It wasn't as interesting as the first, though I liked the actual jedi training.
Hmm, no po prostu dalsza część trylogii o akademii. Przyjemna, ale tyłka nie urywa. Jak ktoś lubi to uniwersum, to będzie zadowolony.
1.5*
3.5
