https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170625.Stillwatch
I found this to be an entertaining mystery, and it has convinced me to try other MHC books in the future, but I don't know - based on this one novel - if I would classify her as the QUEEN of suspense (there are other contemporaries of hers that I enjoy just as much, certainly, if not more - Sandra Brown, Linda Fairstein, Heather Graham; all come immediately to mind).
But, that's being really nit-picky, isn't it?!
The storyline was intriguing, the characters were sympathetic, and it kept me turning pages until well past my intended bedtime, so overall, it was an enjoyable thriller, and I will try to read others by the author (Lord knows!
Merece aa 3,5*Gosto de MHC. É daquelas autoras "conforto", onde volto sempre com a certeza que vou apreciar.Este é um dos velhinhos, com uma história que me agarrou nas primeiras páginas. Gosto sempre das personagens dela, mulheres fortes, e Pat não foi excepção. Gostei bastante. Boa maneira de terminar o ano :)
My wife and a friend, Janice, from our third-Monday book club (we meet at Barnes and Noble) went to see Mary Higgins Clark and her daughter, Carol, speak at the high school recently.
I don't think I had ever read Mary Higgins Clark before.
Pat Traymore is the protagonist, a newswoman with a new job in Washington D.C. Her parents had died violent deaths there when she was a child--ostensibly, a murder-suicide.
Well, right off, as a reader of a mystery writer you are suspicious of that notion of loving parents involved in something so horrendous, right?
A perfect example of why I love Mary Higgins Clark--no sex, very little swearing, an intriguing plot line without being evil or mess-your-pants material, antagonists that you can actually see a little of yourself in. Perfect.
One of Clark's better efforts from her early days. It's a better whodunit for the most part, and the intensity of the ending is better than she's written yet, since I'm going straight down her book list from the earliest on up.Pat is at least a stronger female lead than those that have come before her. She does fawn over a man wayyy yonder too much, but she also sticks to her guns in her project and doesn't seem to quail in the face of abject terror.Clark is getting better, for my list purposes, and I'll keep going.
2.5 rounded up. I'm not sure why I used to like MHC so much in high school and college.
Come to think of it - that's pretty much how all Clark's books are.The characters lack some quirks and some spirit.
It's boring and it's not very original.Most of the time the pace was really slow and I didn't feel like reading it (which explains the gap between starting in...
Basically, Clark is the written word's answer to Céline Dion - it's nice enough when you don't feel like thinking, but you're not in for a great surprise and the story is easily forgotten.
This was about Pat Traymore and how she was doing an expose on Abigail Jennings a Senator who was looking to be vice-president. Pat had something from her past that she was trying to remember and it was related to what She was doing the expose on. It was not hard to figure out who the bad guy was, but I really enjoyed this book.
Mary Higgins Clark is quickly becoming my favorite author and Stillwatch doesn’t disappoint.Pat Traymore’s career is at a high point with Emmy nominations and growing acclaim in Boston which helps land her a high profile job in Washington D.C. The job, producing the first episode of a new series “Women in Government,” will have her working closely with Senator Abigail Jennings.
The book follows Pat as she works with the reluctant Senator and begins to discover that there are a lot of damaging secrets in the Senator’s past that could ruin her career.
The Abigail character and storyline had several points that made her another weaker element in this book.
All of her stories blur together over time. I can't recall what most of these are even about because they're all so similar. :)
Es curioso, pero me dio la impresión de que Mary Higgins Clark sabe crear personajes femeninos muy potentes, pero los hombres que aparecen en sus historias son más planos que mi marcapáginas.Por ello, las escenas de los enemigos de Pat resultan algo tediosas.
Las descripciones son también ligeras y muy visuales, con unos pocos detalles bien escogidos para que te hagas una buena idea en tu cabeza.Mi conclusión general sobre El ojo avizor es que es otra novela comercial de misterio más, un género sobresaturado hoy en día.
Le livre est bien construit avec dans presque chaque chapitre et surtout les derniers une narration selon le point de vue de plusieurs personnages.Une même journée racontée sous divers angles augmente le suspense et maintient le doute tout au long de l'histoire.
Elle est intelligente, intrépide et déterminée, elle se pose beaucoup de questions ( au même temps c'est normal elle est journaliste ) et l'histoire suit un raisonnement et une logique mais je regrette qu'elle n'ait pas été plus âgé au moment de l'incident de ses parents on aurait eu le droit à plus de souvenirs de famille pour avoir un personnage de caractère plus complet.
Things I Learned: Nothing I can think of ...Comments: Second book in a week with a religious fanatic at its center.
Dan Brown's religious fanatic was easier to understand.
This one's motives were murkier.
Apparently, everyone who commits murder has to be insane, with murky motives - no one is simply a cold-blooded killer.
Are all killers crazy and does that make all crazy people killers?
I have to wonder if this is the general public's view of folks with a psychiatric diagnosis - that we're all potential ax murderers.
But this book was written back in 1984, so hopefully, people are more enlightened these days.
I love MHC's writing and have read most of her books.
But this books lacks suspense or conviction.
The characters are vague and weak.
Pat Traymore is about to find all she can about the possible candidate who is set to become the first female Vice President of United States of America.
In the mean time she has to deal with her childhood memories which are rather vague and distant.
Finding answers to the mystery surrounding herself and the possible future Vice President Abigale Jennings becomes a game that might cost Pat Traymore her life.
It was a good a good and easy read specially if you just want to pass time and relax.
I would usually rate a book depending on how it had affected me right after or while reading it.
I would like to compare the experience of reading this book to watching a sitcom.
It was very convenient to build the story in such a way that it would end like this: incriminating one person (Toby) for the entire chaos while the other (Abigail) was clueless and simply took the high road...
Like every happy ending episode of sitcoms.
He leido muchos libros de Mary Higgins Clark pero este era lo peor. El libro se hizo pesada e a veces sentia como no iba a ir a ningun lugar. Pat Traymore es una personalidad de la television, cuando ella era una nina sus padres se mataron violente. Ella regrese a la casa donde los homicidios han ocurrido, y ella empezo a recordar algunas cosas de la tragedia. No voy a recomendar este libro, porque he leido otros libros de MHC y eran mucho mejor.
Mary is a true master storyteller. The characters are real, and interesting. I love the fact that Kerry turned into Pat, came back and was strong enough to find the truth. Her boss was only looking out for himself, the lady across the street was a real psychic, Sam finally acknowledged his true feelings, and Abby was climbing her own political ladder.This book is great, has it all-politics, greed, murder, romance, intrigue , manipulation and power.
I have read Many of Mary Higgins Clark's books. This one was my least favorite. I just couldn't get into it. I found myself thinking about other things while reading. I was unable to stay focused. the characters were very boring with no personalities. It was a struggle to finish the book. I hate not to finish a book and force myself to read if even if I am not enjoying it. This was the case with this one.
I enjoyed this, mostly. The main character, Pat, was easy to like. It was suspenseful and written so that I had to keep reading to see what happened next. What I did not like was that I felt there were too many characters. Eleanor's friend added nothing to the real story and added dead weight. The ending was poetic.
Meer dan degelijke thriller van de tot voor kort voor mij onbekende Mary Higgins Clark.Het komt een beetje traag op gang en sommige aspecten zijn gedateerd (nog geen GSM, er wordt overal op los gepaft, ook in restaurants, ...) maar naarmate de ontknoping vordert neemt de spanning en de leessnelheid erg toe.
I believe I read this years ago. It is an "okay" book. You can definitely tell it was written in 1984. Mary Higgins Clark has come a long way since then. It was a fun, quick read though and did keep my interest.
Das Buch hat mir am Anfang gar nicht gefallen. Irgendwie konnte ich keine Verbindung aufbauen und auch die Spannung ließ zu wünschen übrig. Ab der Mitte wurde es dann besser, wobei man sich das Ende schon recht früh ausmalen konnte. Von mir bekommt das Buch deshalb nur 3 Sterne.
I had forgotten how much I love Mary Higgins Clark. Going back and reading some of her older novels, it is easy to see why she is called the queen of suspense. A fast and captivating read, Ms. Clark is never a disappointment.
Great plot twistsThis is one of the only books I've read of Mary Higgins Clark, where I didn't guess the ending. It was filled with lots of twist and turns. The plot twists were extraordinary! I can't wait to red more of her books!
I really liked this book it was definitely a stay up all night read. Definitely one of Ms. Clark’s best and I have read a lot of her books. However I did not like some of the language which was a surprise coming from Mary Higgins Clark.
Riveting.TV journalist Patricia Traymore's past hunts her as she prepares a program featuring a senator who may become the 1st female VP of the USA. What she discovers threatens the senator's reputation & Pat's life.
I read these Mary Higgins Clark books because my Aunt gave me a stack of them. They are a quick read, and yes a page turner, but not really my cup of tea. Capital politics and intrigue, and a past they will catch up to all the characters.
Good mystery. One of the older mysteries. I’ve read many of hers and will continue to read them.
It took me forever to read it. I just never could really get into it.
I enjoy reading Mary Higgins Clark's books. They are so well written.
