https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363270.The_Lighthouse_Mystery
Mr. Hall, sensei of the town of Conley, tells the family that this boy wants to go to college and his cruel father, Mr. Angry Dark Eyes, won’t let him.
They’d rather just pay him off when he raises a fuss.After that adventure, the children are ready to go to bed again, and of course Watch wakes up at midnight barking, and THEN Jessie and Violet see a mysterious woman walking past the lighthouse all sneaky like.The next morning at breakfast, Violet and Jessie tell their tale, and the whole crew goes next door to the abandoned, boarded up house to snoop around.
fun and it makes you feel like you're in a swimming pool. the last part at least, I think
While many of the books include some thing or other that dates the writing - e.g., a reference to "long distance phone calls", or illustrations of the kids boating without life jackets - this one included something that seemed a bit much even for "the old days".
We know the Boxcar Children live some place in New England, but are they in MA?
This book mentions two towns: Conley and Ashland.
Finally, I don't know if I'm just getting tired of the Boxcar Children's we'll-fix-the-world adventures, but for the first time, their interest in other people's activities seemed to border on meddling.
I read the eighth book in the Boxcar Children series, called "The Lighthouse Mystery".
The mystery was good and I enjoyed that part of the book."The Lighthouse Mystery" starts with Grandfather Alden and the children on an adventure at a local lighthouse.
After finding out that the lighthouse was for sale, the group begged Grandfather Alden into buying it.
During the night, the boy practices science experiments in the boarded-up house attached to the lighthouse.
I feel the first Boxcar Children book would set a template for the main characters.
Most of the time the book was focused on Larry, the boy who could not go to college.
A truly charming story which I thoroughly enjoyed but the mystery consisted of wondering what the boy next door was up to and figuring it out all very quickly.
Of course, they didn't tell the boy they knew what he was up to but that's not exactly mysterious!
A new character is introduced and ends up going to Henry's college so I expect we'll see him in future books.
A perfectly enjoyable story about the family, has the family very gently "roughing it" in an old lighthouse but not exactly a mystery.
Another fun read of the Boxcar Children! This one did lean a bit more towards mystery than the others, which was nice-I enjoy these books more for the nostalgia than the actual story or writing quality.
I love lighthouses. Add a mystery and a six-year-old's crush on Benny and you've got the makings for an enjoyable easy read.
The Alden kids never cease to amaze to find a new mystery wherever they seem to be.
Not only do they find it but they seem to solve them quickly over time.
This time the Alden children are finished visiting with Aunt Jane and are on the drive home when they wander upon a lighthouse and beg there grandfather to stay.
Much happens good and bad they is potential for someone to be lost in a big storm, they rekindle relationships among a family, they continue to grow their survival skills.
Quite the interesting book, in the end someone's dreams come true, how great!
Another Boxcar mystery. Grandfather continues to have boat-loads of money and to give the children whatever they want without any negative consequences. Most children would be thoroughly spoiled at this point!In this one, while driving home, the children see a lighthouse and decide they want to live in it for the summer. So, of course, that is a reasonable request, and they get what they want.The mystery is begins when Watch begins to bark at midnight each night. Watch never barks—so what’s happening outside of the lighthouse each night?
My favorite bit was how the kids just up and ask their grandfather to buy a lighthouse for them to play in. No big deal! Gramps can afford this! An entire lighthouse! Can't wait for a book where Violet passes a baby in a carriage and decides she just has to take it home....(Then in a backpedaling bid to make us forget this gross sense of entitlement, Jessie frets about buying 4 bathing suits. Isn't that too, too expensive, Grandfather? NICE TRY, JESS. I'M ON TO YOU.)
the children saw a light hous for sale and bought it. there's a boarded up house too. At night watch would always bark. There also is an unpleasant teenager Henry's age. the children build rock seats and table. that night they see a boat coming...
my favorite character was Benny cause he loves to eat like me nothing surprised me i would not change the ending
This is another one with an actual mystery. The last book had a history lesson and this book has a science lesson.
The Lighthouse MysteryBy Gertrude Chandler WarnerIllustrations By David ConninghamGrade Levels: 3-5DRA/Lexile Measure/GLE: 440L/3.2Reviewed By Aaron CarterOne of the renowned Box Car Children-series books, as its name suggests, The Lighthouse Mystery follows Grandfather Alden and the children on a mysterious adventure at a local lighthouse.
In the end, the family ascertains that a brilliant young man who is forbidden to attend college by his father is practicing science experiments in the boarded-up house attached to the lighthouse, with the boy’s mother sneaking him supplies and him attaining the rest by “borrowing” his father’s boat.
Finally, the young man is allowed to attend college, and the family returns home from the lighthouse.
I'm trying to remember why I loved the Boxcar Children so much as a child.
Today I see right through mystery books, and perhaps it was the Boxcar Children who led me to be able to do that.
I think I bought almost the entire collection (a small fortune, if you ever look at the price that such a slim paperback goes for!!) and right now they're all stored in boxes somewhere.Perhaps one day my children will appreciate them.
xDAnyway, the Lighthouse Mystery...
More than that I can't remember.
But I do remember it was thrilling and daring and interesting!
Mysterious things happen in The Boxcar Children: The Lighthouse Mystery, by Gertrude Chandler Warner. Henry, Jessie, Benny, and Violet live in an old lighthouse for the summer. A mysterious stranger appears on the beach late at night. Who could it be? One night the dog named Watch started barking. The girls looked out the window and saw a stranger near the kitchen of the house next to the lighthouse. The next day, they looked inside the kitchen and saw a science experiment with seaweed and plan
Henry, Jessie, Benny, and Violet live in an old lighthouse for the summer.
A mysterious stranger appears on the beach late at night.
The girls looked out the window and saw a stranger near the kitchen of the house next to the lighthouse.
The next day, they looked inside the kitchen and saw a science experiment with seaweed and plankton.
That night, they saw a young man set off in a boat just before a storm hit.
Will they solve the mystery?
I like this book because it has a mystery that makes you want to read on.
Great Book!The Lighthouse Mystery was a well written book for children in 3rd to 5th grade.
The family befriends a teenage boy, Larry, that lives in the town, who is somewhat estranged from his father.
The siblings work together to figure the mysterious sightings that occur late at night around the lighthouse and help to bring Larry and his father together.
Larry is then able to realize his dream and go to college.
This book is full of action that pulls the reader's attention in from the very beginning and engages them until the very end.
I would recommend this book to other children.
Better than the last book. Henry was finally treated like an adult. I thought the mystery was not very mysterious. The Alden's are renting a lighthouse for the remainder of the summer and every night at midnight Watch, their dog, gets up and barks for exactly ten minutes. Obviously someone is messing around in the abandoned house next door. This story had way too many coincidences to be believable. Anyway a good story to amuse young readers. Maybe I am just over thinking the story.
Oooh....Now I want to go stay in a lighthouse during a thunderstorm. How cool is that?I loved this book. I love the message it sends, I like how the children still work together to make life better for the people around them. And I love that their grandfather is willing to let them explore the world and help others whenever possible.In short I love the Boxcar Children overall. Why didn't I read these as a child?Highly highly recommended book. I can't wait to read the next!
I liked this one when I was younger, because of staying in the light house. But I do remember picking up on the timing issues with the Woodshed Mystery and they really bug adult me. Either Jane and Andy had a little wedding shortly after July 1, when Mr. Cole's brother came and the couple days it took to find Andy, so that the Aldens could be at the lighthouse a few weeks and be around for the cookout on July 25th...or Warner meant Aug 25th in this book.
My favorite in the series so far. Grandfather rents a lighthouse for everyone to stay at the seaside. Watch keeps barking at midnight, and there is cooking going on in the supposedly empty lightkeepers house.Because it is the 1950s, it isn't a meth lab but a clever person doing exciting science things.
my favorite part was when the mystery was solved and the boy could go to college like he wanted. the worst part was when the boy was grumpy because he wasnt aloud to go to college. my favorite characters were the boxcar children because they all had ideas for how to make the boy happy. there was no worst character
Read as part of the cousin book club. The girls really like the boxcar children and I picked this one because we'll be discussing it on our Maine trip so I thought reading a book that takes place on the beach would be fun.
On their way home from their last adventures, the Alden's are sidetracked by a wonderful lighthouse that Grandfather buys and they stay there for a nice relaxing visit, only to discover a mystery concerning an angry young man with secret aspirations.
I love reading aloud books from a series to my students in the hopes they'll get hooked and read more independently. While some of them took the bait on this one, I almost wished they hadn't. I found the writing dull and the plot slow. Wholesome, yes, but I didn't even want to finish it.
I enjoyed this book. It was an enjoyable read. The only real issue I could see with this book (or series, truthfully) is that it is so outdated. The story is still interesting, but children might be bored by the simplicity.
it was exciting and very interesting! it is cool how they make stuff out of just plain,regular things like rocks,or boards.I thought the most exciting part was the storm part.it was interesting and kinda scary.
Here the kids continued to be quite supervised... but they had fun with cement (a bit of unconcern with the property of others and extravagant spending) and inventiveness and niceness. I enjoy these kids, even if their adventures are being... tamed.
The Alden family rents out a lighthouse and suprise surprise, they stumble upon a mystery. The first Boxcar children book I ever read from what I remember. Third grade Miss Lackey, yo. Thanks for not getting my Narnia references and handing me this book of 4 siblings who go on adventures.
This a book about how a family of five go on an adventure, live in a lighthouse and solve a mystery. They make a new friend and help him survive through a water storm that he was in. It is a good book to read.
