https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12051147-gospel-principles
This was the first book I ever read about the Latter-Day Saints, even before the Book of Mormon. It is a comprehensive, straightforward book that covers the basic beliefs of the Mormons. There's a lot of bologna out there- if you really want to know what the Mormons believe, read this.
Since I'm in the primary, I don't get to go to these lessons in SS and RS. I got my new book and decided to read through it myself. I did this every morning while I was brushing my teeth/blow drying my hair, etc... and it was a nice way to start the day. It puts the gospel in such simple terms and explanations and I think this would be a great missionary tool. I would like to re-read it and look up all of the scripture references this time, study deeper.
Nuts and bolts LDS dotrine. Moe like a primer than thoughtful disscussion. Very simply written, not meant to provoke deeper religious or philosophical thought
great for people interested in the Church or just introduced to it... easy to understand
I really enjoy studying the scriptures in topics, rather than just reading from cover to cover. This was a simple and straightforward book on the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I learned a lot and found some scriptures and quotes that I really enjoy.
What an amazing book! It clearly states the principles of the gospel and how to live them. My eyes were opened as I studied the fundamental teachings of the gospel in this book. I will, undoubtably, read this again!
The basics of the Gospel of Jesus Christ taught simply and clearly. I will read and use this book again and again!
The one part of this book I will never forget, I read right after my Grandpa Rock died. It was a quote from President Ezra Taft Benson. He said something like, "If you want to know where the spirit world is, it is right here among us". I really felt the truth of that, and it comforted me when I needed it. Very simple and easy to read.
I'm glad I have been instructed that in my present calling whatever ward I am attending/visiting I am to attend Gospel Essentials class for Sunday School. I enjoy this manual immensely; and though I have not read it cover to cover, I love the simple and heartfelt way it reassures us of Gospel truths.
I was the Gospel Principles (Essentials) teacher for a year. It was probably the most spiritual and happy year of my life so far. It is the basic beliefs of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints religion(aka Mormons). Want to know what our church is all about, read The Book of Mormon and right behind that, this one.
I started this book almost exactly 4 years ago, it has survived three moves and some major life changes- surprised I kept my place!! part of the reason it took so long was because I looked up every scriptural reference. A little dry in some places but very informative for the most part.
This book is great for all converts to the LDS church. This is also a great book for those young adults that didn't learn much while in their youth and need a review. (Like me).
Other than being offensively bland, these are a few small things that irked me: -The "chapters" or "lessons" in this book average about five pages each.
However, the "Law of Chastity" chapter was enormous in comparison: a whopping eight pages.
For one thing, I always hear from LDS church members that the atonement of christ, forgiveness, repentance and the like are the most important principles in the church.
On page 277, in the chapter "Exaltation", here is one of the blessings given to exalted people: "they will become gods".
-Maybe the most offensive thing in the entire book is this line: "Temple marriage is worth any sacrifice.
-Back to the "Law of Chastity" chapter.
An easy study guide to the truths of the gospel in the Latter-days
Excellent reference. Will keep in permanent collection.
President Joseph Fielding Smith said, “In order to obtain the exaltation we must accept the gospel and all its covenants; and take upon us the obligations which the Lord has offered; and walk in the light and the understanding of the truth; and ‘live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God’” (Doctrines of Salvation, 2:43).To be exalted, we first must place our faith in Jesus Christ and then endure in that faith to the end of our lives.
Such a good concise book about the principles of LDS. It's my go to for needing a quick reference or direction to research beliefs a little further.
This is a manual, and thus, meant for study. So, it does not make sense to give a lot of comments.  Here are a couple of things that impressed me as I finished the book."We Should Prepare Now for Judgment""What must we do to be ready for the Final Judgment?""In reality, every day is a day of judgment. We speak, think, and act according to celestial, terrestrial, or telestial law. Our faith in Jesus Christ, as shown by our daily actions, determines which kingdom we will inherit." From Page 273 fr
This is a manual, and thus, meant for study.
Our faith in Him must be such that we repent of our sins and obey His commandments.""He commands us all to receive certain ordinances:1.
""In addition to receiving the required ordinances, the Lord commands all of us to:1.
Search out our kindred dead and receive the saving ordinances of the gospel for them.5.
Love our family members and strengthen them in the ways of the Lord.7.
Study the scriptures.10.
Listen to and obey the inspired words of the prophets of the Lord."		Most of Page 278 from Chapter	47
Inspirational.
I find it quite odd that people read religious books entirely dependent on faith and that rate them poorly if they "don't believe" the content or rate them highly if they do believe the content.
It would seem strange to me for example that I would venture our to read about Judaism or such and then give every piece of writing a low score simply because I am not Jewish or don't want to believe in the faith without regard for the beauty of the writings or teachings in their own regard from a literary standpoint.To this end, this collection of teachings or principles provides a good breadth and base of knowledge regarding the teachings of Mormonism.
Loved this book and it's presentation of the facts of the LDS Church.
For any who are interested just in Mormon doctrine or the investigator seeking answers this is your book.
From there the chapter is divided into easy sections that face a question or truth then follows, up with an introductory question.
Again loved the easy-to-read and understand format so would highly recommend it.
If you have questions but don't want to contact the Church just write your questions down since the majority of the time they answer will appear later on in another chapter with more details.
Definitely a good introduction to LDS beliefs, practices, and church structure.
It is very similar to the Catechism of the Catholic Church in structure and content, only much less exhaustive.
Obviously I'm not of this faith tradition, but the most useful thing about this book is that if you are wondering where some doctrine or practice comes from, it's easy to find where it is in this book, and you'll find an explanation along with the passages of the Bible and LDS scriptures that are interpreted to indicate the truth of that particular belief.

It took me two whole years...but I finally finished. For those of you not in the loop, it was supposed to take two years. :) Anyway, this book is a complete treasure and I would recommend it to anyone. If you're interested in learning more about basic gospel principles, this book covers them in 47 short chapters complete with scriptural references. You don't have to read it straight through, cover to cover--you can pick and choose the topics in which you're most interested. Beauty and Simplicity...it's all right there, Folks!
I gave it a 4 because it's very simple, foundational, basic beliefs about The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints--yet I realized when I read this review that for that very reason others who are not members or have not been in the church long may rate it a 5 for that very reason: "This was the first book I ever read about the Latter-Day Saints, even before the Book of Mormon.
It is a comprehensive, straightforward book that covers the basic beliefs of the Mormons.
There's a lot of bologna out there- if you really want to know what the Mormons believe, read this."She is right.
Great gospel handbook for LDS families or anyone interested in knowing the basic principles of the doctrines that form the foundation of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Note: The word saints, as applied to all believing (baptized) members of this church, is in the connotation of the New Testament times to refer to all followers of Christ. Modern Christian applications of "saint" implies Godly perfection. LDS people make no such claims about themselves.
Seems to talk less about what I think of as the Gospel and more about how we ought to live. It comes off as legalistic, referring to "grace" as something that has to be earned and deserved. Only the ending talks much about metaphysics, but even here it's more in the sense of what we'll earn for ourselves if we live the right way. The principles were generally sound--speaking on generosity, the importance of family, work, etc. I didn't care much for the motives being suggested, though.
I've studied this several times on my own...However, I just finished reading the whole thing to the kids. Lots to discuss and they easily understood it. I'm determined, that they (like I, thanks to my wonderful parents) enter the MTC and find these things a review and not a revelation. (paraphrased quote by Sister Julie Beck).
I was born and raised a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints and thought I understood the basics, but this book really opened my eyes in many ways. Yes, much of it just reiterates things I learned over and over during years of Sunday school and the likes. But there were things it taught me that I had no idea about. Definitely a must read.
This is the Relief Society and Melchizedek Priesthood lesson book for the years 2010 and 2011. Previously and now it is also the basic lesson book for investigators and new members of the church. A new edition with some updates was put out for 2010. There are 47 lessons on the most basic principles of the Gospel, with plenty of references for deeper study.
