https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14316.Black_Swan_Green
I may end up stammering my way through this review, but if I do, just consider it a tribute to Jason Taylor.So Black Swan Green.
This is the first David Mitchell book I’ve read but I assure you, it will not be the last.
You want him to succeed!Jason Taylor is ACE.
Black Swan Green, that’s right, ACE!I wish I could remember all of the glorious passages from this book, but I borrowed the dang thing from the library, and they don’t take kindly to people underlining things or scribbling in the margins.
I didn’t want this book to end.
Cloud Atlas has the multiple allusions to it’s own structure, such as Frobisher explaining his sextet in a similar fashion as one would explain the novel, and number9dream had the wonderful ‘Goatwritter tales’ that explored Mitchell’s literary goals.
Mitchell comes across more like the overly excited professor that just wants you to love books as much as he does and is willing to sacrifice some of his literary merit with the higher brow to draw in a crowd of readers who would otherwise stay away from the higher brow literature.
Lots of goodreads people I know just love him and they are generally people whose opinions I respect (or at least I like their opinions because their opinions line up with my opinions on many book related areas, and it's only natural to think that people who agree with you are smarter than the other philistines who don't agree with you about these sorts of things, right?).
Maybe there isn't a lot that can be done with this particular genre, but this book didn't feel like it really stood out from other movies and novels I've consumed.
*Summer camp experiences for my own edification1984 - One week away.
1985 - I'm fairly certain I figured out how not to go to summer camp this year.
It's such a tender age where kids are coming to terms to with life, when they try to fit in or hide away; when parents let them come out of their shadows and the brutal world is trying to teach them the hard realities of world.
When they're clueless about whether to behave like an adult because everyone expect them to or be that carefree kid who don't give a damn about this big, bad world.
A perfect read for someone like me (who loves coming of age stories).
Sometimes I look forward to reviewing a book; other times it can feel like an unwanted chore, like mopping the floor.
It’s about a thirteen year old boy who is bullied at school.
At the same time it brought back memories of when I was thirteen, only a few years before the character in this book was thirteen.
One thing that occurred to me was how important football was in determining popularity at school.
Mitchell’s boy is bullied because he has a slight stutter.
Mitchell’s character also writes poetry and reads The Daily Mail (there’s an oxymoron!) – what thirteen year old boy reads the Daily Mail?
Or something like it.Strike three: David Mitchell's writing reminds me of all the MFA program writing I've ever read.I thought The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet and Cloud Atlas were disorganized, and NO I did NOT misunderstand the fractured POV he used, I thought he did a poor job of executing it, and I found the preciosity of his phrasemaking in each of the three books I've either read through or Pearl Ruled unpleasant to the point of actual snort of derision coming out of me as I read.I don't think he's a good writer, I don't like the story he told here (which has nothing to do with him, only to do with my response), and I won't be reading more stuff like this:The first torrent of vomit kicked a GUUURRRRRR noise out of me, and poured on the muddy grass.
In some respects Jason has really rough times: he’s stammering and at all costs attempts to hide it before schoolmates, besides, horror of horrors !
well,  writing poems is .
It’s so easy to become an object of mockery.In his home there is no better, bad relationships with older sister and hanging over head parents' divorce.
Nuanced, amusing and compassionate at the same time.
Soliciting for recognition in the peer group, dread of rejection and to be an object of ridicule and bullying described with tact and humour.Thirteen, wonderfully unhappy age.
Black Swan Green  then is a poignant, bitter-sweet farewell to childhood.
Hence this review.When I watch a Hollywood movie or a TV show involving American schools, I see schoolkids overly concerned with social status and pecking order.
Take it easy, will ya?!Who is teaching these kids to be so class-conscious?
But some kind of social hierarchy can be seen, however vaguely, in real life schools too.
But I wish he didn't have to worry about being a social pariah for being a stammerer.
Right off the bat, Jason establishes the social order.
I would give Mitchell the benefit of the doubt and assume that it's the adult Jason who is narrating the 13th year of this life.
But despite its narrowed scope, it is no less powerful or captivating than his other works.Jason Taylor is our hero, a thirteen-year-old boy in the sleepy middle-class town of Black Swan Green, Worcestershire.
Mitchell grew up in a similar Worcestershire town and would have been the same age as Jason at this time.
Mitchell has described this book as a kind of catharsis for him: "I’d probably still be avoiding the subject today had I not outed myself by writing a semi-autobiographical novel, Black Swan Green, narrated by a stammering 13 year old."We've all encountered coming-of-age stories before but this one is different.

I remember describing this book to a coworker:Me: "It's about this little stuttering English kid who lives out in some little village during the Thatcher era, and sort of like, his coming of age kind of experiences?"Coworker: "Oh God, that sounds awful."Me: "No!
But if you're interested in the coming-of-age experiences of little British boys in crappy towns during the Falklands war, I suggest you go see the movie _This is England_, which has not just a much fresher take, but also a better soundtrack.
A Spelling TestI kept this book on the shelf for a few years, before thinking I was ready to read it.
I didn't want to break the spell of the first two David Mitchell books that I had read (I didn't really like Cloud Atlas) and I was a bit apprehensive about the subject matter of a young teenage boy.
Teenage Mates LandThe first half captured male teenagerdom in the period in the 60's and 70's (when I grew up) and the 80's (when Jason grew up) perfectly.
I can't help thinking that, if Jason was important enough to care about, David Mitchell could have finished off the story.
Τα σχόλια όμως των "μιτσελικών" φιλενάδων μου εδω στο GR, με βάλανε σε πειρασμό.
Το βιβλίο αφηγείται ένα χρόνο από την ζωή του δεκατριάχρονου Τζέισον.
Περιέχει σκηνες απο την καθημερινότητά του, τις δυσκολίες που περνάει λόγω της βραδυγλωσσίας του, τα συναισθήματα του, τη σχέση του με τους γονείς και την αδερφή του.
Αυτό που είναι εκπληκτικό με το Μαύρος κύκνος, ειναι οτι ο Μιτσελ, δεν παλιμπαιδιζει προσπαθώντας να αφηγηθεί την ιστορία του Τζέισον, ούτε η ιστορία είναι δοσμένη μέσα από τα μάτια ενός ενήλικα που αναπολεί την εφηβεία του.
Είναι σαν ο συγγραφέας του βιβλίου να ανήκει πραγματικά στην τρυφερή ηλικία των 13 ετών..
Μα τελικά, πόσο όμορφη μπορεί να είναι η ζωή μέσα από τα μάτια ενός παιδιού; Πολύ!Και εκεί είναι που ο Μίτσελ επιστρατεύει το μέγιστο όπλο του - αυτή την διαολική ευχέρεια με την οποία μπορεί να μπαίνει στο πετσί των ηρώων του.
Όπως ερμηνεύει μάγους, σοφούς, επηρμένους φοιτητές, δαιμονικούς λόγιους, γιατρούς, εμπόρους και αιωνόβιους υπερανθρώπους, εδώ μπαίνει μέσα στον νεαρό ήρωα και μας παίρνει μαζί του.Μα ό,τι και διαβάσουμε έτσι, θα είναι μια περιπέτεια δίχως προηγούμενο.
This warm and big-hearted coming-of-age tale of a 13-year old boy, Jason Taylor, set in rural south central England in the early 80’s has plenty of charm.
Its magic lies in the capturing of innocence of that age at that time and place, from the electricity of a first kiss and sickness from a first cigarette to the pull of dancing to the Talking Heads and of jingoistic feelings inspired by Maggie Thatcher’s war for the Falkland Islands.
…”Another of the chapters treads a little along the lines of a boy-level parody of mythic adventures and quests in the woods of the Malvern Hills.
But it’s not far from the fantasy games and challenges we got up to in my rural youth decades earlier.
Sadly my umbrella is mostly made of a thin but impermeable layer of cynicism so I didn't have as many lovely things to say about Cloud Atlas as many others did.This book made me re-evaluate the thoughts I'd had after reading Cloud Atlas although I still wasn't prepared to join in the gush-fest.
Black Swan Green seemed to be more genuine read/ write and I've subsequently learned through the lazy joy of Wikipedia, that this is because it is semi-autobiographical.
So when the adolescent narrator mentioned his stammer the first time, my stuttering self needed a second to regroup.
This book couldn't win me over solely on my overwhelming empathy for an invented youth -- though it certainly helped.Like the other Mitchell books I've read, BSG is, at its core, a series of intertwining vignettes (in this instance, each chapter represents a month in Jason's life for 13 consecutive months); the most obvious dissimilarity comes from how immediately apparent the connecting thread is.
Coming-of-age tales can be so damn onerous and so immersed in self-aggrandizing observations that reading them is as unpleasant as actually going through puberty again.
I mean really, it's been a pretty long time since I was in junior high, yet there's certain times that those memories come flooding back to the point where it feels like all those events just happened yesterday.
Black Swan Green gives a glimpse into the life of Jason Taylor, a stammering, thirteen year-old growing up in a little village outside Worcestershire in the early eighties.
While Jason goes through the normal trials of trying to fit in with the popular crowd, hiding his stammer as best he can, and tolerating middle-school torture, he witnesses and experiences so much actual life, it's amazing.Black Swan Green touches on love, death, beauty, war, family, politics, marriage, prejudice, and so much more, all through the eyes of a thirteen year-old boy.
All of the horrors and torments of the regular youth, the fighting parents, the schoolyard bullies, the secrets, the shame, are written in such a way that memories of your own childhood will be conjured up, emotions fresh as if it were yesterday.
Throughout the story, the main character has insights that are a mix of childhood imagination and innate wisdom, as he goes through the motions of the daily life and all of its consequences.
It is a long, hard slog, with an end that while not triumphant is indeed a triumph; a child conquering what life throws at him and coming out of it bruised, but not broken.
This is a beautifully written book but I'm going to make a contradictory statement here - it is not for me.Jason Taylor is a delightful boy, for most of the time that is, but my attention began to wander after a couple of chapters. The book did not fulfil my expectations. A quick skim through the book and then that was the end of that.A shame really as it held such promise initially. Perhaps I will try and reread it at some later stage in my life.
Maybe I'm out of form or it could be that Black Swan Green is a hard one to write about?
To write good books in so many genres and styles avoiding standards and cliches, I'd say, is quite another.Black Swan Green is basically the chronicle of a year in the life of a thirteen-year-old boy, set in an English village in 1982.
What makes it brilliant, if you ask me, is the perfect portrayal of being thirteen, when adventures take only a mere stroll in the woods to unravel, and ordinary things become extraordinary when experienced through the prism of that age.
In Black Swan Green, simplicity does the trick.
“If you show someone something you've written, you give them a sharpened stake, lie down in your coffin, and say, ‘When you’re ready’.” Black Swan Green is David Mitchell's semi-autobiographical novel about a thirteen year old boy, Jason Taylor, growing up in Worcestershire England in the 1980s. This is a bildungsroman about navigating adolescence, which captures with aplomb how absurd and hypocritical and draining the whole experience is. But it's also a novel filled to the brim with hope and
Black Swan Green is David Mitchell's semi-autobiographical novel about a thirteen year old boy, Jason Taylor, growing up in Worcestershire England in the 1980s.
Each chapter reads like a short story, but it all comes together in the end; you gradually realize how and why each of these incidents shaped Jason so profoundly, and how they tie in to the bigger things going on in his life at the time (his parents' fragile marriage, the Falklands War and the death of a local boy overseas, the political climate of England under Thatcher's leadership).
I could imagine knowing someone like Jason, maybe even being him some of the time.
Uses his trick of inserting characters from other books: * Madame Crommelynck is the composer's daughter from Cloud Atlas* Neal Brose is a an entrepreneurial bully who becomes a major character in Ghostwritten * Number 9 Dream is a Beatles song that plays at a disco as well as being the title of another Mitchell book Number 9 Dream* The dodgy older cousin, Hugo Lamb, is a major character in The Bone Clocks
Reading Mitchell for me is like experiencing J.D. Salinger again in high school or Don Delillo or Murakami in college. There are certain books you feel the author has almost hand-feed you emotionally and intellectually. This might only be objectively a 4.5 star book, but bugger objectivity, I loved it.
It is called a Bildungsroman.3) A novel that highlights, or hints at, the fragility of family, or the frailty of marriage, is nothing new.Mitchell trods on these, and other, well-beaten paths, striving all the time to deliver us something fresh on each page.
Let us approach the problem in the reverse.Let us start again with the three points I opened this review with and see how Mitchell presents them in this novel1) Jason Taylor, the 12-13 year old protagonist, is a stammerer.
David Mitchell is well on his way to becoming one of my favourite contemporary writers. He has an amazing ability to ventriloquise, to channel characters through his writing. Here, in this mash-up of The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole Aged 13  and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, he seems to be channeling his younger self, self-conscious British teenage speak warring with the compressed imagery of the developing poet:The lake in the woods was epic. Tiny bubbles were trapped in the ice like in
Black Swan Green falls into the genre of bildungsroman, and Mitchell charts Jason's emotional and mental growth over the period of a year--each chapter an episode in a month of that year--when his life goes through a more than usual teenage upheaval.
He captures with high fidelity not just the images and episodes of the period but that peculiar condition of belonging to that savage tribe called "Teenage Boy'Hood": I call him "Dean" if we're on our own, but names aren't just names.

I can’t wait to read more by this guy. It’s clear how Mitchell has such devoted fans. The only word of advice I would give to anyone before reading this tremendous coming of age story is to choose not to be bothered about whether a 13-year-old boy could, in real life, be such a polished and insightful writer. Just enjoy the fact that Mitchell is. He’s ace, as young Jason might say!
4.5 stars
What more can I say but Mitchell has my soul  FOLLOW BLOG (Kenyan Library)    “If you show someone something you've written, you give them a sharpened stake, lie down in your coffin, and say, ‘When you’re ready’."     Mitchell does it again!! Are we really surprised that I ended up really enjoying this one…    Set in the 1980s this coming of age story follows the life of Jason Taylor a young 13-year-old boy from the town of Black Swan Green as he navigates through the tough challenges that life
After Cloud Atlas  (Review here) becoming one of the best books I read last year, I was sure that whatever genre his magic hands touches will be an instant favourite.
At the beginning of the book, he comes off as a very misunderstood character who just wants to fit in and I was a bit put off because I didn’t want to read another generic teenage boy story with unrealistic expectations that always wins at the end and gets the girl.But after a few chapters his complexity surfaces and we see that he has so much more to offer and that drives the narrative.
Seriously Go Freaking Read Cloud Atlas
