https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/757972.The_Last_Days_of_Mankind
Zamisljena kao drama za koju ovaj svijet nije spreman, sto zbog sadrzaja, sto zbog kako Kraus sam kaze, vremenskog trajanja od desetak ovozemaljskih veceri, pa ce se ona izvesti na Marsu, ova lezen monumentalna, mamut drama u fenomenalnom prijevodu Seada Muhamedagica koji je imao nezahvalan posao prevesti nebrojeno puno jezicnih formi, a da se ne udalji od Krausovog specificnog jezika koji i danas okuplja razlicite -loge.
Μέσα στους διαλόγους που άλλοτε είναι σύντομοι και αποσπασματικοί και άλλοτε πολυσέλιδοι και χειμαρρώδεις, παρεμβάλλονται συχνά ποιήματα ακόμα και παρτιτούρες που παρωδούν τα πατριωτικά άσματα της εποχής του, ενώ στις σκηνικές οδηγίες που προηγούνται πριν από τις διάφορες σκηνές γινεται μια συντόμη αναφορά στην τοποθεσία και στα βασικά προσώπα που πρόκειται να ακολουθήσουν.
Ένα παράδειγμα για τον τρόπο με τον οποίο ο συγγραφέας σκηνογραφεί και σκηνοθετεί το κλίμα της εποχής του (Πρώτη Πράξη, σκηνή 1, σε έναν κεντρικό δρόμο της Βιέννης, τον Αύγουστο του 1914, λίγο μετά την επίδοση του τελεσιγράφου στην Σερβία που είχε ως αποτέλεσμα την έναρξη του Πρώτου Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου).Από την μια τα πλήθη επαινούν τους γενναίους στρατιώτες που πάνε στο μέτωπο από την άλλη δεν θέλουν τα δικά τους παιδιά να πάνε και να σκοτωθούν.
This book on WWI has the same importance a those of Junger, Barbusse, Genevoix..It is an epic monumental play based on propagada newspaper, 209 scènes, one thousand carachters, many different places on 5 act.
All the WWI in a tragic and picaresque play.The alone problem is the Kraus personnality.Vienna Secession, the joyful apocalypse.
he had been proposed for the Nobel.All his energy was devoted to write pamplhlet, a true killer.He is close to the socialist movements and attack with the bourgeoisie, especially Jewish bourgeoisie.
For the Nobel speech, he said he spoke in the name of four persons disappeared.
The fact that this book hasn't been adequately translated into English is a travesty. If Dante were alive today he would damn all able German translators who have overlooked this gem to a very special place in hell, and punish them by blaring Heidegger's _Being and Time_, read by Chris Kattan, through enormous loudspeakers for eternity.
There is one major flaw: rather than footnotes, or even endnotes, we have a 'glossary.' That's fine if you're just looking up names, but not so great if you're looking up, say, what he's talking about with the postcards of atrocities.
Speaking of postcards, there are very few illustrations here; the now out of print German edition has a bunch, which are very helpful in giving you a sense for what enraged Kraus so much.
Also: best last line of any book I've ever read, but readers might miss the irony, because, you know, no footnote.
Kraus beschreibt in seinem Stück die Lage um den Ersten Weltkrieg. Anders als bei der Mann ohne Eigenschaften ist das Buch für mich wesentlich leichter zu verstehen. Kraus verbindet den epischen Stil eines Brechts mit dem Dokumentartheater eines Peter Weiss.
Wish there were a more complete translation available. The snippets in this version are tantalizingly brief and a more complete version would be of great benefit to English speakers.
http://visao.sapo.pt/actualidade/visa...
Leitura o-b-r-i-g-a-t-ó-r-i-a !"Este drama, cuja extensão, medida à escala terrena, daria para preencher uns dez serões, destina-se a ser representado por um teatro do planeta Marte.
O público do nosso mundo não teria forças para suportá-lo.
Pois que é sangue do seu sangue e o conteúdo é parte do conteúdo daqueles anos irreais, impensáveis, inacessíveis a toda a mente lúcida, fora do alcance da memória e só preservados num sonho sangrento, os anos em que figuras de opereta representaram a tragédia da humanidade." - Karl Kraus - Prefácio da peça de teatro "Os últimos dias da humanidade"."A desproporção entre os meios de destruição em larga escala possibilitados pelos avanços da técnica e a irresponsabilidade e insignificância moral dos que têm o poder discricionário de utilizar esses meios (...)" (António Sousa Ribeiro)
THIS is why I'm reading the Western Canon, even though it will take the rest of my life and I likely won't even finish. Who in the 21st century has time to read a 700 page play about the German experience during WWI that has never been performed? And yet who shouldn't make the time?
Fine rendering of an essentially untranslatable work: probably the world’s longest play, anti war in theme.
But, instead of stealing space ships, I'm like why did I request a six hundred page Austrian satirical play from the 1920s to read?
I don't know.So I spent the past week reading my six hundred page Austrian satirical play from the 1920s.
I'll add that question to the why do I do things one.Basically The Last Days of Mankind is an unperformable play.
So a play it is.I know I'm sounding really down on The Last Days of Mankind, but it ends up transcending a lot of my complaints (not the one about surprise aliens though).
"Nossos pais são astrónomos que estrelasnunca viram; quando fitam os céusnegros, brilhar veem ambiçõ
This epilogue is the first installment of a promised translation of the complete work.
This translation is done not by a scholar but by a dramatist and writer.
Thus the translation is done from a performer's point of view.
(Yet Kraus himself admits the work is unperformable, requiring literally a cast of thousands.) So the translation preserves rhyme and rhythm.
I recently read and reviewed Nabokov's translation with commentary of Pushkin's Eugene Onegin here: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...
Nabokov represents the opposite philosophy of translation.
I am actually more interested in Kraus from a scholar's than a performer's perspective, so this is a bit of a disappointment to me.
This is a solid, workmanlike translation, though as a selection from the play it leaves a lot to be desired, inevitably out of 800 pages.
There is, for instance, none of Kraus's clever, distinctive and very varied verse - none of the self-contained Epilogue (all verse)which was the only part of the play fully staged in Kraus's lifetime(with Brecht's involvement at one point).
I am halfway through a full translation of the play which will be epublished in 2 parts in 2014 and 2016.
A condensed version of Acts I-III is available online at thelastdaysofmankind.com, along with a full verse translation of the Epilogue.
Our faith was forbearance your was excessA great denuciation of war and its reasons. It does not feel the years. It was written for World War I but could have easily been written today. The most beautiful parts are the song of the Lord of Hyenas and the diacourse of the people of Mars.
It is difficult to rate English translation of Last days of mankind. Out of ~800 pages only 237 are available in English and a lot was lost in translation. Still Kraus opus touches a lot of current issues. I hope that some day English readers will enjoy complete version of Last Days
Amusing series of unconnected scenes showing (supposedly) realistic depictions of WWI in Austria, from outbreak to finish.
I guess we'll never get a complete translation, so this will have to do.
A dramatic journalistic tragic satire of Austria and the Great War. The opposite of Svejk, which is a comic satire from the Czech perspective. Well worth reading.
Libro bellissimo, indispensabile, non recensibile. Comunque qui c'è un tentativo di parlare dell'1% di ciò che contiene: http://sonnenbarke.wordpress.com/2009...
