https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34197390-trickster-s-queen
$1.99 Kindle sale, November 2017.
This is the second half of an excellent YA fantasy duology set in the world of Tortall, featuring Aly, the daughter of Alanna (the main character in Tamora Pierce's SONG OF THE LIONESS quartet of books).
Aly has managed to keep, well, most of Duke Mequen's family alive while she was their slave.
Now she's freed by the family, but still serving them as they leave the remote island where they had been exiled and head back to the main island of the Copper Islands, into high society where conspiracies and intrigue abound.
Full review to come.
It just isn't all that exciting.Tamora Pierce confesses in her acknowledgements that she has delighted in following J K Rowling's lead in writing larger books for children.
The larger books suffer from bloating and, here, too many tedious details about the reports Aly reads and visits to the palace were included.
Two of the early chapters in the novel concern Sarai and Dove visiting the palace, and I found it extremely hard to push through those - I've never had such trouble with Pierce's books before.I also found that Sarai became a pretty dislikeable character - spoilt, headstrong, and only thinking of herself.
The first half of the book is considerably slower than book one and seemed much more political, but I loved the inclusion of the Darkings (FUN!) and once things finally picked up, they didn't stop until the end.
Dove is probably in my top 5 favorite characters to ever come out of the Tortall world; I would LOVE a book about her after the events of the Trickster books, or even a prequel describing how she and Sarai grew up.
Everything about this world is so intricate and fascinating to me.
Somehow things managed to come even easier to Aly than before and while I admired the old-school spy games of the first book they now seem to require little effort, relying on magic and gods' whims to do all the work.
When things don't go according to her plans it usually somehow saves her from a difficult decision that would otherwise have given the story some dimension and the character some grit.(view spoiler)[The head of the King's guard easily figures Aly out as spy, except of course he conveniently isn't interested in politics and doesn't care as long as she doesn't go near Dunevon, passing up the opportunity to give her a worthy adversary.
The combination of Western fantasy with Western science fiction means that even now I picture the fantasy city with wide boulevards, low-gabled houses, and amber sunlight dappling the warm streets.Malheureusement, growing up one comes to perceive the limitations of such a treatment of the genre.Trickster’s Queen, then, is a painful reread because I approach it this time with a new clarity of vision.
In the Trickster’s Queen universe, this is unquestionably a righteous happening; Aly is vindicated by the appearance of demigods who hail her for her political and military intervention in the Copper Isles.I find it remarkable how the parallel of the novel’s plot with historical and contemporary USAmerican influences in Southeast Asia could fail to escape readers.
2. The villains are so incompetent Aly glides through the plot easily.
In addition to the harmless villains Aly doesn't have any other problems except her relationship with Nawat.
Four is Aly's relationship with Nawat.
At the end of book 1 she isn't interested in Nawat's offer of a relationship.
At the start of book 2 she's accepted and somehow the tables are turned: she's the one that likes their relationship and Nawat's the one that's pulling away.
It could be seen as a sign of Aly's character development as she didn't want to get too involved with anything (a problem that started off the first book) but seeing her suddenly love sick is too weird.
Video Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OznVm...
In Trickster's Queen, Aly's role has slowly turned into Spy Master.
But, she has the talent and the skills to be an amazing spy master, and the raka aren't going to look a gift horse in the mouth.
What I love most about this is when characters who don't know Aly are introduced to her as a spy master, they all guffaw.
A few characters even took turns I wasn't expecting, and I found that some of my favorite characters by the end of the book were unexpected.
After all, we have a bratty 16-year-old who turns into a strong female spy master.
The Regents of the Rittevon boy-king, Dunevon, are suspicious, prickly, unloved and reactive; it doesn't take much from Aly to aggravate their worst points and turn the populace against them, though they certainly didn't need much help for that.
Nawat, the crow-man, leaves Aly to help the rebels on other islands and to grow into himself.
While I did find that Aly's personal thoughts and feelings weren't delved into enough, especially in relation to Nawat, had I been reading this at 14, say, I would have been very satisfied.
Grades: 7 to 10 Genre: FantasyNo longer a slave, Aly’s life is still far from simple as she has become part of the plot to place a Raka queen on the throne of the Copper Isles. Over the winter she has become a master of spies for the rebellion. Another complication in her life is her relationship with the half man, half crow Nawat. He wants to solidify their relationship and can’t understand Aly’s hesitation. The family Aly serves is moving back to the city to become part of the court there. Hop
Grades: 7 to 10	Genre: FantasyNo longer a slave, Aly’s life is still far from simple as she has become part of the plot to place a Raka queen on the throne of the Copper Isles.
Hoping to use the Balitangs return to favor to further the rebellion, Aly makes new contact in the city and starts to move the plot forward.
While at first it appears that Sarai, the oldest Balitang daughter, is the one of which the prophecy speaks of, but time makes it apparent that it is indeed Dove who will become the new queen.
Aly is one of my all-time favorite heroines to hail from Tortall. That she uses her intelligence and quick wit to accomplish everything that she does in astonishing. I love getting lost in the dark and twisty place that is the spy world of the Copper Isles. I've read these books so many times and will continue to do so - I just can't get enough. Highly recommended to anyone, anywhere, anytime.
I loved this book even more than the first one!
She acts like a true spymaster and I absolutely fucking loved it.
She's like 12/13 years old but she's so much more mature than other girls or boys her age.
She's definitely more mature than Sarai and (view spoiler)[ I was so happy she's the one who was put on the throne.
I literally love these characters so damn much I want to cry.
I'm really sad this is the last book set in this time period of Tortall with these characters because I loved seeing the cameos and the other characters all grown up.
My main problem with the book was the main character- Aly. I thought she'd improve from the first book, but if anything, she got worse.Aly is arrogant, annoying, patronizing- the list goes on and on. Everything she does is right, everything she thinks turns out to be true, and absolutely nothing catches her off-guard. No matter what happens, she knows what to do (a teenager with no field experience) and she's not at all upset. I won't give spoilers with specific examples, but it is incredibly
My main problem with the book was the main character- Aly. I thought she'd improve from the first book, but if anything, she got worse.Aly is arrogant, annoying, patronizing- the list goes on and on.
Never mind that we repeatedly see that there were far more qualified leaders of the rebellion (who for some reason have no problem handing over control to someone they hardly know) who are putting much better plans into place without her (not that she's willing to learn from anyone else, of course)- Aly's in charge.
So where did Aly come from, with examples like this?
I tripped and fell down a Tamora Pierce rabbit hole this weekend.Here's the thing: Aly was never a compelling character for me.
Tamora Pierce is one of the only authors I know who's actually successful at creating a second generation of characters in the same world.
The Aly books feel like third generation, and I don't think they're as successful.
When the best moments of the Trickster books are the ones where I got to see Jon interact with Alanna, and Kel duel with Alanna - well, the series starts to feel even weaker.
Possibly I liked this book more than the first one.Pierce continues in her quest to put a half raka girl on the throne, and take down the current rulers who are mistreating the raka.
If possible, I think this sequel is more action-packed than its prequel, and that’s saying a lot.Pierce even manages to close with a beautiful ending.
It just wouldn’t be possible.There is a bit of violence, but not any language that I picked up on, and the gruesome scenes aren’t described in vivid detail, so I think this book can even be for youngsters.
The relationships between all the different characters in this novel were so incredibly well done, from (view spoiler)[Aly becoming "boss-lady" and essentially a mother to all her spies, to Nuritin essentially being McGonagall, to Dove being what seemed like a trainee spymaster, to Nawat and Aly being PERFECTION (hide spoiler)]Probably my only gripe with this book is that (view spoiler)[both Dunevon and Elsren died - and they never found Elsren's body ;u; (hide spoiler)] but that's more of a personal issue than any issue with the writing - I mean (view spoiler)[the death of two innocent little boys so that the regents could assume power of the country?
George as spymasters trying to one-up the other ;D (hide spoiler)]Honestly, that was just such a satisfying book from beginning to end (view spoiler)[with the exception of the deaths of Dunevon and Elsren at least (hide spoiler)] and it was exactly what I needed when sick.
Skim-read this one. Solid but predictable, as usual. Could not care for the intricacies of the "spywork". The only selling point for this series was Nauwat, really, and since he's absent for most of the book, well...I think what I dislike most about Tamora's characters is that, if they're confronted with a problem, she just invents some magical means of intervention to get them out of it. I mean the darkings, obviously, and the rampant god-cheating that is a trait in all of her books.
Such a let-down. The overall story told in the Daughter of the Lioness books is just not up to the standard of the other Tortall books. I had to force my way through these two books, hoping for a good pay-off in the end. Sadly, the end wasn't really any better than the rest.
DNF
I found this one dragged a little, but overall enjoyable. I liked some of the cameos from people we’ve known in other books and liked how things were mostly wrapped up. It does have a bit of a white saviour complex and might have been better if told from Dove’s POV, but I did like Aly as a character. Recommended for fans of Tortall.
The other minor flaw that comes to mind is that the end does feel a bit rushed; Pierce lists off a list of casualties, one of which was a major-minor character (if that makes sense) in the first book and then was just brushed aside in the second and then written off as a sacrifice of the rebellion.
With all of the build-up to the rebellion, it just seems to be over in remarkably few pages, and then the epilogue just feels a bit off as well, though I can't quite put my finger on why.Overall, this is a good book; I definitely enjoyed re-reading it.
It's amazing that a writer can produce books as breathtaking as the first two quartets in the Tortall-verse, and also books as terrible as the Daughter of the Lioness-books.What I love about Pierce's writing is the action, the magic, the diverse universe, and the way that you get to really know the characters.None of that happened here.
Congratulations, Aly.Only two of the chapters were interesting and had any real action; the climax.
Everything else was honestly a struggle to get through.I am personally fearing for the time where I sit down with the Beka Cooper-books, because in my opinion, the Tortall-verse keeps getting worse instead of better.
The history of each country, there to explain why certain types of people feel certain ways about one another; it's just so elaborate and just what a spy would need to know about to survive in a rival country.Another thing I like about Pierce is that her girls are full of adventure and believe, like me, that they can do anything.
Aly's wits are sharp and she is definitely one with the trickster in her ways.The family she protects is interesting as well.
I almost feel like it was too much, giving Aly the crows, because it made it so much easier to win.
Her Song of the Lioness and Immortals series both count among my childhood-defining books (I feel secure in crediting Alanna with my strange fascination with girls disguising themselves as boys, and Daine and Numair were likely a part of why I like a good mentor/student relationship).
Too much, really.Alanna and Daine (Pierce's previous protagonists, for the record) were both strong, fully formed characters.
Her strong, realistic female characters are a huge part of why I'm such a huge fan.So when I realized that Aly had inherited all of her mother's talents and powers, a long with her father's, plus she had every important or talented person in the entire kingdom fawning over her and teaching her their skills (all of which she excelled at, of course), I was flat out pissed.
As usual, Pierce creates interesting characters with depth as well as growth.
This book is a fast paced adventure story, but also shows provides an interesting look at political intrigue and the consequences of a weak and ineffectual monarchy.Also as usual, my biggest point of contention with Pierce is the premarital sex between important characters.
In spite of the discretion, I don't like the attitude about sex that this presents to the teen reading crowd.
I would let a teen read the book, but I would make sure they knew that isn't the attitude that should be considered acceptable.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/The duchess has freed Aly from slavery and now she is spy and leader of the underground rebellion to put a Raka Queen on the throne of the Copper Isles.
The Balitang family plus Aly are returning to Rajmuat, and it is Aly job to put Sarai on the throne.
This is a very good book but it is a complex story and is very political, however, Tamora Pierce pulls this off.
I would recommend Trickster’s Queen to anyone who liked Trickster’s Choice or other Tamora Pierce books.
So great! MORE TO COME when I have more coherent thoughts and it's not time to sleep!
This book was good again I love all the books MORE TORTALL BOOKS PLEASE
A position made easier when Kyprioth takes her in hand, for Prince Rubinyan and Princess Imajane are perfectly comfortable with assassination and betrayal.Fortunately, when the Balitang household returns to Rajmuat from exile, Aunt Nuritin is there to ease their return, but there isn't anything Aunt Nuritin can do about the metaphysical signs of approval.The danger only increases when the Princess commands the Balitang family to the Palace.
For the young Duke Elsren to play with the three-year-old King Dunevon and the ladies of the family to return to Court.
Aly's brothers are Thom, the family mage, while Alan, her twin, entered page training over three years ago.Duchess Winnamine Balitang's son Elsren is next-in-line to the throne after Dunevon; the duke was killed in 
Picking up where Trickster's Choice left off, Aly is still working as a spy supporting the rebellion in the Copper Isles.
First, Nawat, the best character ever is barely in the book.
It KILLS me, because I wanted more adorable interactions between Nawat and Aly. Also, the darkings are adorable.
However, they kind of seem like a easy way to explain why Aly is basically omniscient.
Finally, as much as I love the detail...I feel like there could have been less of Aly reading reports and listing off her agents and their information...I just got repetitive after a while.I still love the book, and Nawat is still bae.
