https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6621014-the-picture-in-the-house
Though Lovecraft had previously used rural settings—“The Tomb” (1917) comes immediately to mind--”The Picture in the House” was the first time he explicitly chose rural New England as a suitable location for his tales.
the true epicure of the terrible, to whom a new thrill of unutterable ghastliness is the chief end and justification of existence, esteem most of all the ancient, lonely farmhouses of backwoods New England; for there the dark elements of strength, solitude, grotesqueness, and ignorance combine to form the perfection of the hideous.
Furthermore, what region of New England could be a better source of ghastliness than the backwaters of rural Massachusetts, places of refuge for degenerate Puritan stock?
A Lovecraft BR-quest with Craig.
The only good thing about this story is that it's too short to DNF.
The atmosphere, the decorations and the bit of suspense were good, I even liked the creepy old character with his old tongue and his nice book.
The idea of the story wasn't fully fulfilled.3.
The ending wasn't satisfying, if this could be accepted like an ending.
Come on Lovecraft.
(view spoiler)[If you stumble upon a killer and see blood leaking from the ceiling,what will you do?
(hide spoiler)]So I asked myself I hope I'll be lucky next time :) ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3.5An unnamed narrator, who is trying to find a shortcut to Arkham, is forced to seek shelter from the storm in a creepy, old farmhouse. He has been collecting genealogical data from the people in the Miskatonic Valley.The door is unlocked and he soon finds a leather-bound old book. Speaking of old, the weirdest thing about the farmhouse is that he 'could not discover a single article of definitely post-revolutionary date'. The book keeps opening 'of itself at Plate XII, which represented gruesome detail a butcher's shop'. Then he hears footsteps upstairs.
Short. Sweet. Slightly disturbing.In public domain along with most of Lovecraft's stories, not my favourite of his I've read but an eerie way to entertain a few minutes on their way by.4/5
Me dio la misma sensación de ir al cine a ver una peli de miedo, sabes que algo malo va a suceder, pero aún así, te sorprendes cuando atacan al protagonista. El final rompe toda esa ambientación que se genera.
cuento de lovecraft que me estremeció un poco, aunque supongo que no tiene unefecto inmediato como para decir que se me enchinó la piel o me aterró, aunque imagino que para ese chico sí que lo fue... al menos en el final da a entender que por el bien de sumente olvidó (o imaginó) ese suceso. bien para comenzar con algún cuentito suyo, pienso yo.
Pues... no ha estado mal, aunque no ha sido impresionante. Lo que más me ha gustado, es la forma de narrar de Lovecraft (es lo primero que leo suyo y me ha sorprendido gratamente). Por lo demás, esperaba que me diera más miedo, o repulsión. Esperaba más sangre, algo más grotesco... pero no.
Me gusta muchísimo cómo escribe Lovecraft y sus atmósferas llenas de adjetivos horrorosos. Esta vez no se quedó atrás con las descripciones, pero si encontré un poco mezquino el final. Leído en La Isla PerdidaCriatura: Caníbales
This one had a couple of laughs in it, some of which I'm sure were unintentional (the narrator only refraining from exclamining aloud at the sight of the slovenly old man because of his "good breeding") and some of which I thought probably were (decent houses don't look at you that way).
Anyway, this story reveals that Lovecraft is just as capable of finding grotesque horror in poor white people as he is with other races.
Did Lovecraft invent the subgenre of Hillbilly-Horror?
I was (view spoiler)[disappointed that the snooty narrator got away, and worse, with his sanity intact so he said!
I absolutely loved this, Lovecraft paints a bleak and unsettling scenario, depicting the landscape and surroundings vividly.A proper creepy house setting, building the tension and pacing it beautifully.The characters are drawn brilliantly, and the story underpinning it is suitably strong and impressive.Lovecraft manages to elicit some genuine suspense and fear from a picture. In these days of all out gore I appreciated the subtlty of his writing.
MYGOD, THAT WAS GOODfor audiobook lovers, here's a good narration/acting for freeeeehttps://youtu.be/BtiSz-Hzjx0
Me ha entretenido, aunque esperaba algo mucho más macabro. Me hubiera gustado un final distinto. La historia se me hizo algo predecible, pero esto no le quito el misterio.
Man gets rained on. Man goes in seemingly abandoned house for shelter. House not abandoned.This story is great as almost a cliche in horror in the present day. Any time I read in a book or see on a screen a person running into an abandoned house, only to find it not abandoned, I think back to this very story. Short story, great read, takes about an hour or so to finish.
Me gusta bastante cómo escribe Lovecraft y las atmósferas que crea. Esta vez no se quedó atrás con las descripciones que hace. Te da que algo está por suceder; como cuando en una peli te ponen la música de fondo para que sepas que algo se viene y eso a mi hace que no me 'asuste'. Fue un buen relato pero no de los mejores de él Cafeteria de Audrey La isla perdida 2 parte
It's short, creepy, and a page turner. That yankee accent is frightening! Only downside is the ending.
I can't help but feel that this story is a little unfinished. I admire some of the elements that Lovecraft put into this, but somehow they never quite came together for me.But I've gone ahead and tried to arrange my takeaway thoughts into a haiku:"A baleful taint grows,Near home, and the more gruesome,For neglectful hands."
I have no memory of reading this book before, which made experiencing it for the first time (again) quite intense! 3 stars for the first reading, 4 stars for the second.
Автор цієї історії подорожує сільською місцевістю Нової Англії з метою генеалогічних досліджень.
На безлюдній стежці його застає злива і єдиний притулок - стародавній будинок, де герой рятується від дощу, а потім починає з цікавості розглядати інтер'єр, який міг би бути мрією антиквара.
Згодом на другому поверсі почулися кроки і звідти спустився старезний чоловік із сивою бородою.
Він виявився напрочуд гостинним і охочим до розмови.
Однак оповідач почав відчувати дедалі більший дискомфорт, коли господар став розповідати про улюблену ілюстрацію в одній із книг - ту, на якій зображений м'ясник з африканського племені канібалів - і зізнаватися, що йому було б цікаво відчути те ж, що і м'ясник в книзі.
But the true epicure in the terrible, to whom a new thrill of unutterable ghastliness is the chief end and justification of existence, esteems most of all the ancient, lonely farmhouses of backwoods New England; for there the dark elements of strength, solitude, grotesqueness, and ignorance combine to form the perfection of the hideous.Nobody does ancient, lonely farmhouses of backwoods New England quite like ol' H.P. In this short tale set in a quaint old shack, our our-present nameless narrat

Good setup; cheesy ending. I do find the idea that a picture in a book could cause the right (wrong?) sort of person to become a cannibal rather entertaining, but if you're going to go there, at least do something with it, rather than obliterate the scene with a narratively convenient lightning bolt.
Aunque dije que ya no buscaría más de este conocido autor, el cuento venía incluido en una antología sobre caníbalismo que me regalaron. Y, aunque ese es uno de mis temas favoritos, no fue capaz de hacer que Lovecraft me resultara digerible.Bueno... En gusto se rompen géneros, supongo. Seguiré lamentando no haber sido capaz de disfrutarlo más.
Certain kinds of horror don't make me go 'Oooh, scary!' so much as they make me go 'Oh, ICK!' Guess which brand this story is. Points for first mention of Arkham.(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.)
Si mal no recuerdo, es el primer relato de Lovecraft que leí, en el salón de una casa de piedra en la que iba a estar pocos días. Aunque al releerlo me parece más flojo, aquella primera vez me hipnotizó...
Blech! This story is stupid, boring, and not in the slightest bit creepy. I'm not sure why it has such high ratings. In my opinion its not one of Lovecraft's worse stories, but its definitely down there. Woe to anyone who started reading Lovecraft with this story.
The characters are too simplistic and the story too uneventful to catch any interest over its short duration, not to mention its abrupt ending. At best it can serve as an example of Lovecraft's lesser early works when comparing them to his better writing.
While I loved the descriptions and imagery and it successfully creeped me out, this story was a tad bit too short and unexplained in the end.
More of the same Lovecraft style - detailed build up, creepy pay off in the final sentences.Almost thought I missed the payoff, but turns out I was just searching too hard.
Lovecraft's short stories are by far his greatest strength. The Picture in the House was dreadfully creepy as he made you wait for the shoe (axe) to drop.
Excluding those disappointing last few lines I adore this story. It's odd, unsettling and unexpectedly funny at times.
what this story want to tall ? i will never know .and it end ends in unsatisfactory and abrupt.
