https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1896346.High_School_Debut_Vol_01
Probably one of my favorite shoujo mangas out there.
He's really multifaceted and that's pretty rare in shoujo love interests.The story had moments that broke my heart and moments that made me laugh out loud.
I'd say the plot has enough twists to keep you reading late into the night, although it does take a while to become its own unique story.
Recommended to anyone who hasn't read quite a lot of shoujo manga and wants to read something relatively short.
Haruna Nagashima was a softball player and comic reader in middle school, not the recipe for popularity with guys, she figures.
New to high school, she has set out on a quest to get a boyfriend.
But she needs to be more feminine, and way cooler, obviously!
She tries a number of silly makeovers that fail—she’s Clueless!--so she enlists the help of a boyfriend coach, upperclassman Yoh, who will help her as long as she doesn’t fall in love with HIM.
He’s had enough with love, been hurt before, and so on.
But they are a cute duo in this quest.
Pre-review thought Is it just me or does anyone else feel like a pedo for crushing on 17-year boys?
Let's talk about some things now.I. Love.
And you would too if you ever read the manga.Haruna.
In the beginning of the manga I thought she was realy, really stupid.
In the end, I ended up liking her.
But overall, she's all right.In the beginning of the book, I thought the whole concept was really kinda dumb.
That's just kinda ridiculous and desperate, which Haruna was, but pathetic.
Ridiculous.THere are many parts that made me laugh or gag when I was reading this manga.
Though, the guys out there might now like it.P.S. I really hate Assa.
High school, or how wanting to be cute and liked by boys and fit into gender norms can transform a happy, confident, athletic girl into a depressed, insecure one who is still badly dressed and doesn't have a boyfriend.Yoh is kind of a sucky makeover coach, actually. I wish I thought that was the point. I'm sure he'll end up with the girl, although Fumi seems much nicer.
Until now, Haruna has dedicated her life to softball.
Now in high school, she has decided to dedicate her life to the pursuit of love.
Typical manga plot here - the brother-sister type relationship that could become a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship at any time - a cozy way to look at boys, though, as platonic friends who can give clothing advice.
Feminist message too - mocks the advice given from girls' magazines to pander to what girls think boys want.
Haruna is a fan of girls' comics.
Eventually, can see that Haruna and Yoh will learn from each other.
Haruna is yearning to experience it for the first time.
An excellent manga, plenty of humor, heartfelt dialogue and overall a highly recommended title!
I had time to read one of them (after that I was too tired), and I am hoping to read the other 2 today.
It was a fun, hilarious manga, though I do worry about the girl.
She seems to have absolutely NO fashion-sense (who walks outside in a dress meant for a party and adds some sort of transparent shawl to the mix?), she just stands stock-still when going out.
Though I hope Yoh is able to help out this girl and give her some common sense.
Oh yes, definitely ship it, though ultimately I am hoping Yoh and Haruna get together (the CHEMISTRY!!!).
I'd give it to Takahashi Mami, Haruna's best friend for actually pointing this denying attitude of Asaoka for us.
I love the fact that by the end of the series, when Yoh graduated from high school and was to separate from Haruna and everyone to pursue college in Tokyo, it made me feel nostalgic as well of the past 51 chapters of happiness and craziness of their lives.
As if I was really part of Haruna and Yoh's group of friends, experiencing the same love and bitter memories of the last three years of high school life.
So, when I started reading it I knew what was going to happen more or less, and some part of me was afraid that it would be just like so many other romantic manga out there.
Now, if you've read manga with many volumes, like this one, you know that it can take a really long time for the feelings of the protagonists to finally get to one another.
This fact alone picked my interest.As it turns out, if someone asked me about the story of High School Debut I would probably give a different answer from the given summary.
I loved this volume more because of Yoh than Haruna.
Also how his character used so much dialogue, it defined his character to me.
Basically a stellar scene is words coming out of Yoh's mouth!Haruna's problem is cute: now in high school she wants to leave behind her sporty roots and find a boyfriend.
I'm not bonded to Haruna (except that she's developing a relationship with Yoh)and this smacks as a big problem for me.
I'm assuming the point is to put yourself in her place hence the lack of specificity in her character but I prefer to at least like her reactions to others and feel she's just a vehicle to experience the plot.
Loved this new series.
This series is about Haruna when she was in Junior high was was only interested in Manga and Softball, now that she is in High school she wants to find a boyfried.
She does everything wrong.
She reads all sorts of magazines to figure out how she is suppose to get a guy.
The only condition he has is she is not allowed to fall in love with him.
She’s always blushing around him and still does things wrong.
I am already in love with this series.
I'm linking my review to just volume one, but let it be said that I devoured this 13 volume series almost in a single shot.
Guilty pleasure, shojo manga at its best...and one of the few that's actually given me some giggles along the way.
In short, 'tom boy' Haruna decides that she wants to get in touch with her feminine side after starting high school.
Translation: she wants a boyfriend.
And then she enlists the coolest, cutest guy in school to be her "love coach." Sweet and funny series.
Sometimes over-the-top with drama, but I expect nothing less from my shojo.
I LOOOOOOOOOOOOVVVVVVVVVVEEEEEEEE high school debut!!!! Especially because Haruna is just like me, except I don't even try to get hit on.Anyways Haruna doesnt know anything about clothes, like me.She doesn't know how guys think, like me.So this book was kinda like watching myself, but there's no Yoh in my life.All the good looking guys are jerks.I'm still too young to even think about dating :)
A tomboyish girl name Karuna, wants to find a boyfriend now that she's starting high school. So she enlists the help of a student name Yoh to help her. Well this was a surprisingly good start to the series. I like the main character and one scene in particular made me smile. Definitely reading more of this series.
Wow, I really loved this. Can't wait to read on.
The story is a little predictable but overall it’s really cute! I can’t wait to see where this story goes.
For being marked as a "sports" manga, there is nothing in here that is related to a sport except that the main character gave it all up just so she could have a shojo romance in high school!
The main character used to play baseball/softball in high school (I'm sorry but I forgot which one it was) but she decided to have a romance fantasy in her high school years so she gave up all that talent just to have a boyfriend.What?
There's Yoh's sister and that Fumi guy that the main character liked but he's just a nice dense guy that that's it.I just can't find myself getting invested into these characters or this story.
I’ll only do individual reviews for a series when it has 5 volumes or less or I've received a copy in exchange for an honest review.In High School Debut Haruna Nagashima has decided that she wants her high school life to be about more than sports.
I find her sweet and dedicated to understanding herself and those she cares about so that she makes her life what she wants it to be.
I think those into series with simple concepts, realistic characters, and lots of sweet moments will enjoy this.
If you're looking for a series focused on sports, this is not for you.
This is my first time ever reading a manga book or comic whatever.I have to say that at first it was
Overall Rating: CSynopsis: A shōjo manga created by Kazune Kawahara, the series follows Haruna Nagashima, who has just entered high school.
Now, in High School, she has decided to apply the same dedication to finding a boyfriend.
Haruna is not allowed to fall in love with him!So far, High School Debut seems thoroughly average.
The plot is your standard high school makeover, with the hot guy coaching the plain girl on how to be more attractive.
I'm hoping for something more along the lines of The Wallflower, an excellent makeover manga about a goth girl and four bishōnen.
Seperti judul bukunya, High School Debut, komik ini menceritakan tentang si tokoh utama yg baru masuk SMA, Haruna, sedang berjuang untuk mengubah dirinya yg tomboi dan kuat agar menjadi feminin supaya segera dapat pacar.Di volume awal, memang komik ini berkesan agak konyol.
kehidupan sekolah penuh acara & pembelajaran ini-itu pun muncul^^ Tapi entah sejak volume berapa,, ceritanya jadi bikin emosi dan bosen lagi.
Menurut saya, terlalu liar dan bebas untuk ukuran kehidupan anak SMA.
Selain itu, alur ceritanya pun mudah banget diprediksi--terlalu khas komik shojo tapi terlalu liar, datar dan ga ada twist apapun--sehingga saya memutuskan untuk menyetop koleksinya di buku 9.Dari segi gambar,,gambarnya kaku.
I can't say enough good about the execution of this one.
There's a plot, there are twists, there are teeth rottingly sweet moments, and there is character development to boot.
It's painstakingly obvious from the get-go that Haruna just needs to be herself, and one can only hope that that's the lesson she learns by the end of the series.
Most of the characters are instantly loveable, each for different reasons.This series has everything from romance to comedy to deceit.
This is feel-good manga at its best.
Haruna is a first year high school student who has never experienced love nor been asked out.
Haruna is such a clumsy, clueless girl - in fact in some ways she reminds me a lot of myself!
Her friends are realistic too in that they tell her she looks good in clothes that really don't suit her simply to make her happy in their attempts to help.
Enter Yoh, the ridiculously good looking guy she chooses to be her 'coach' in making her be attractive.
This was a pretty great start to this odd and funny series.
It seemed perfectly cute, which it also is in manga form, so I'm glad I've finally gotten around to reading the series properly.
! After every sentence!
It was like the CAPS LOCK was stuck!
Some of those sentences could have easily ended in a period!
But aside from that, this was really funny and just so adorable it's like an IV of fluffy rainbows and crippling romantic anxiety!
Haruna, gadis SMA berbadan kekar dengan rambut pendek seleher, ingin merasakan yang namanya jatuh cinta dan mempunyai pacar.
Segala usaha dilakukan Haruna untuk menjadi menarik yang sayangnya selalu gagal karena selera berpakaiannya yang aneh.
Untungnya ada Yo, senior populer berlidah tajam, yang akhirnya menjadi pembimbingnya, yang akan mengajarinya untuk menjadi lebih menarik dan bisa menarik perhatian laki-laki.Berhasilkah usaha Haruna?Ceritanya cukup seru dan perkembangan karakternya pun menarik, tidak terburu-buru.
Humornya yang diselipkan pun pas.
Hanya saja saya kurang suka dengan artwork-nya yang 'kaku' dan kadang tokohnya digambarkan tidak proporsional.
Tapi secara keseluruhan komik ini menarik dan membuat saya sangat penasaran terhadap perkembangan selanjutnya.
Haruna's just started high school and she's looking for fall in love.
Up until this point she's put all her focus in softball but now she wants a change.
She enlists the help of Yoh to help her become more attractive in the hopes of finding a boyfriend.Haruna has some really bad fashion sense.
She wears clothes that are totally wrong for her muscular body and is really awkward around the opposite sex.
So suffice to say, Yoh has his work cut out for him.
Yoh's helping her find her own look which is proving to be difficult with Haruna's sense of stlye.
I feel like I should only rate and review novels on goodreads...because when I read manga, I'm not necessarily looking forward to compelling plots and thought-provoking, earth-shattering ideas and all that extravaganza.
I can save that for my precious novels.
I read manga to wind down, and think of all things fluffy and you know....hot, and fantastic art is a must.
That is what is most important.
Kokou debut is definitely not the best manga I've read, or one of the better ones.
It is satisfying is you really have nothing to do, if you are at a relative's house against your will or anything along the lines of that.
... Wow... This was an... interesting book. Um... There were so high points that made you laugh really hard but there were more low point. The whole book was simply awkward. It was extremely fun to read and to make fun of (shout out to Lily) but if you want a fantastic manga that you will fall in love with, I say that this isn't for you. Bottom line is: absolutely amazing to make fun of, horrible for a serious read.
So I would not have read this due to the fact that it looks funny on the cover, but my sister was like 'I'm reading it' and then she was like 'It is sooo good. You have to read it'. So I did and I love it. It's pretty good. It has a few twists and turns so it's not too predictable.Barely any cussing and very clean. And funny. And cute. And you should read it too.
