https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25584847-the-night-watch
This elegiac motif is set up early in the novel when the lonely Kay enters a cinema halfway through the film, watching the second half first - "I almost prefer them that way - people's pasts, you know, being so much more interesting than their futures." Rather as Elizabeth Bowen did in The Heat of the Day Waters creates a wartime atmosphere in which women, despite all the horrors, thrive in newfound freedoms.
Again like Bowen she creates an almost hallucinatory atmosphere of bombed London in which, ironically, the physicality of life is all the more poignantly emphasised.
Reading a Sarah Waters novel is like eating a pomegranate. Sweet exotic fruit. However, you have to be patient in order to enjoy the fruits of your labor.
The fact that this books characters were not potentially striking or memorable enough to lodge them firmly within grey matter like a sort of post-reading word shrapnel.Because no one likes to admit getting old, I am going to go for option number two m’lud and plead that despite having previously enjoyed The Little Stranger and Tipping the Velvet, both of which are by Sarah Waters, this will not stand out for me as the most memorable example of her award winning literary outputsSet during the London Blitz of WWII the book moves around in time like Bill and Ted on their excellent adventure.
And I did end up liking one of the characters a little.Oh well.Luckily, this book improved after the first 250 dreadful pages.
Part two, set three years earlier, is certainly less boring, but only because the war was still on, not because the plot or characters became more interesting.I continued to get the impression that the characters didn't inhabit their environment so much as they were transported there against their will.
The only bold images were things that need no embellishment to be vivid - bombs, abortion, hemorrhage.While more readable than Part One, Part Two still fell short of interesting, and Part Three, set in 1941 and only about 30 pages long, was sloppy and predictable.
The story weaves through the lives of a handful of women, some of whom had tedious office jobs, others the grim work of driving ambulances or sorting through the rubble of destroyed homes, but all bravely assisted their fellow citizens through the messy, tragic business of living in London during the war.
What I appreciated most about this novel was the realistic post-war world that Waters created.
That they could resent the return home of their husbands, fathers, brothers is a secret shame that Waters acknowledges and tells quietly through the voices of these flawed but brave souls.
She stepped like a person who knew exactly where they were going, and why they were going there— though the fact was, she had nothing to do, and no one to visit , no one to see.
I don't like war time stories.
In fact, I guess the story could have been written against the backdrop of other eras and other societies and still maintain its relevance as a depiction of the struggle of moral integrity surrounded by betrayal - however small it may be - and of acts of kindness in a world of destruction.
Now I feel sad that I have to part with it.I loved this book.
It begins post-war, in 1947, and you meet these characters who all have some sort of secret or mystery from their pasts.
Although most of the characters are gay, Sarah isn't writing a novel about the "gay" experience of World War II, just quietly illuminating the lives of gay people living through the war like everyone else.
Sarah's writing has matured so much that, as much as I liked Tipping, it feels like pure fluff next to this.
Focuses on four main characters (Kay, Helen, Viv, Duncan) who have survived the war and are in some way connected to each other.
It also would have been karma if Helen was cheated on after what she did to Kay. Viv was a total idiot, her years long affair with Reggie was appalling.
I did like Viv's relationship with her brother though, it was sweet how she stuck by him when the rest of the family didn't really want to know.-I had mixed feelings for the structure of the story, what with it unfolding backwards.
I had bought The Little Stranger for her birthday a month before.
I then read that novel and discovered it was rubbish or at least a muddled effort to be a class-conscious ghost story.
I ran out the following day and bought her The Night Watch which I had read months before and liked considerably.
I never thought that this single detail would elicit a literary discussion over the phone.
This was in fact the closest to a literary conversation I have ever had with any of my family over the phone or otherwise.
It travels backwards through time (from the aftermath of the Second World War to the start of it), and follows several characters: Kay, who is ever the gentleman and seems destined to be taken the p*ss out of by her girlfriends, Helen, who seems anchorless and rather lost, Julia the enigmatic, cold author, Duncan, who is painfully vulnerable and relatively defenseless in virtually all situations, and Viv, who is having an affair.
It's an enormously clever approach to a novel, and as always, Waters' rich cast of characters and locations pulled me in right from the start.
The Night Watch is absolutely different from the other Sarah Waters books I've read - Fingersmith, Affinity and The Little Stranger.
The story moves backwards starting from 1947 till 1941.
I found this book to be more emotionally charged, more realistic as compared to Fingersmith or The Little Stranger.
Even if this doesn't capture the reader's attention immediately, I would still say that The Night Watch is one of the best World War books I've read.
Though not a favorite Sarah Waters book, The Night Watch is definitely worth a read, if you are interested in this time period.
“Why is it we can never love the people we ought to?”  I need more of Waters historical books, she is such a talented writer her ability to showcase world war 2 through the eyes of ordinary youngsters was immersive and well executed. She propels the narrative forward by creating such vivid and disturbing scenes and raw emotions from the characters during this awful period.The Story follows 4 perspectives set in 1940s London during world war 2. Kay: An eccentric young girl dressed in boyish clo
I need more of Waters historical books, she is such a talented writer her ability to showcase world war 2 through the eyes of ordinary youngsters was immersive and well executed.
She propels the narrative forward by creating such vivid and disturbing scenes and raw emotions from the characters during this awful period.The Story follows 4 perspectives set in 1940s London during world war 2.
I would warn you not to go into this book expecting a fast-paced war written narrative from soldiers but 
a character drove narrative with the rich complex discussion surrounding emotions, self-destruction, LGBT themes and a personal atmosphere as you follow these young humans.
Fabulous writing as always from Sarah Waters. However, I found it really difficult to relate to any of the characters except Duncan - a troubled soul whose story I found by far the most interesting of them all. I'd have liked to have read a lot more about him and a lot less about Helen/Kay/Julia. As for Viv, I couldn't understand her being with Reg in the first place, so her relationship with him became hugely irritating. Reading's always subjective, of course, but this one didn't work for me.
I so wanted to like this book, delve into the era, submerge myself in war-time London, only to fetch up short and painfully against the fact that Waters clearly dislikes the characters she writes.
She concentrates so fully and entirely on the sordid, on the negative in everyone, that I squicked out of between the book's pages within hearing of the first sentence.
I don't want to hate (all) the people I read about.
To want to participate in their lives, which is what reading a book is about, I need to want that.
And Waters' writing did the opposite to me, it made me want to flee their sphere of influence.
Yes, as some reviewers have complained, this book is often depressing; yes, it includes explicit depictions of lesbian sex that may put off some readers, and, yes--probably the gravest challenge, the story is told in reverse chronological order, with the 1947 situations of her characters ultimately having their determinative roots in pivotal events that occurred in 1944 and 1941.
Perhaps not a book for everyone--forget about the homosexual sex--Waters' graphic description of a back-alley abortion could serve as the ultimate scare story of a sexual abstinence propaganda program--but altogther a novel to be cherished and enjoyed by lovers of superbly accomplished historical fiction.
The plot is certainly not as fast-paced or full of "twists" as the earlier novels; the setting has moved from Victorian to WWII (which makes a big difference to me as a Victorianist); and the voice has changed from first person to third, with four main characters instead of one or two.
We're not entirely sure.One of the things Waters writes about best, in my opinion, is betrayal.
This is elegant, and the unusual structure, which bothered me a little at first, actually works in a peculiar way to give a crescendo of sorts...to the horror of war, to that which has been overcome.
(Thus, not at all like porn.)I am also impressed with the author's ability to write negative ideation...the "bad thinking" people fall into, some more than others.
The way thoughts can twist and carry a sound person away, the way many people live, is portrayed beautifully...without the heavy-handedness that often erodes a plot.
It took me a while to decide whether I liked the way the book was written; introducing the main characters in 1947 and then going back to 1944 and 1941.
However the characters work well and the atmosphere of wartime London is well drawn.
The relationships feel real and I certainly cared about the characters.
The ending, especially the last sentence, is wonderful and puts some of the rest of the book in perspective.
I will certainly read more.
I felt especially drawn to Kay and I wonder whether others who have read it felt the same.
Lovely book and worth reading.
I’ve been slowly working my way though her backlist, and finally had the chance to read The Night Watch, which was shortlisted for the Man Booker and the Orange Prize.The novel has an unusual and audacious structure, in that each new section of the book moves backwards in time rather than forwards.
There is Kay, a young woman who dresses like a man and who cannot recover from a broken heart.
Working backwards through their stories, much like an archaeologist may dig deeper for new revelations about a place and time, has an unexpected effect of slow-building suspense.
This is a book more about relationships than “plot,” and about characters that some readers may find unlikeable or even intolerable: the author’s empathy for difference and its life challenges is not something all Goodreaders will necessarily share.
By 1947, when the book opens, most of Water’s characters are “leftovers” from the war, accommodating themselves to what seems a less “free” way of life.
There are evocative depictions, for example, of characters’ boldly groping their way through the London blackout or rescuing the victim, not of a German bomb, but of a part-time abortionist.
The lives of these characters, and the supporting cast, intertwine more than you can imagine when you first start reading.The book is written in three parts, taking place in 1941, 1944 and 1947, but in reverse chronological order.
But I went back to the start and read some parts from the 1947 block again, and found that I knew more that I thought I did.A lot of people seem to find The Night Watch dull compared to Sarah Water's other books.
It's there, ruthlessly shaping their lives, but it's not really commented on.I had a lovely time reading this book, enjoying Sarah Water's wonderful langague, and I definitely recommend it.
3.5⭐Started out fantastically then in a true Sarah Waters fashion, it didn’t go downhills it just want as fantastic. The story feels unfinished and I feel like I’ve stopped reading midway.
3.5⭐️Started out fantastically then in a true Sarah Waters fashion, it didn’t go downhills it just want as fantastic. The story feels unfinished and I feel like I’ve stopped reading midway.
I have a strange relationship with Sarah Waters' books -- I love them because they are unmistakable queer, with mental illness and the complications of existence portrayed without focusing too much on queer tragedy.
Reading The Night Watch right on the heels of reading Connie Willis' WW2 series was a relief.
At the same time, the reverse chronology left me feeling ambivalent: I was left unfilled re: Viv's story line, and incredibly satisfied re: Kay's story line.
I think I could have definitely lived without the Viv storyline.
Anyway, strange book, glad I read it.
Especially nice after Connie Willis and her "Queers?
What Queers?" book.
Then Waters works backwards: having shown us where these characters are after the war, she goes back to wartime to show us how they got there, with the main part of the book occurring in 1944 and a much shorter section at the end in 1941.The wartime setting is excellent; Waters obviously did her research, and she creates a very convincing atmosphere, particularly when her characters are out in the streets of London.
This was partly because I didn't find the characters all that engaging, and partly because once I finished the book, I would have liked to know what happened after the 1947 section, which is left very open-ended.
I can honestly say I haven't read a book like this before, and that's a good thing.
The story starts in 1947 in post-War Britain, then the 2nd half is in 1944, and then it ends in 1941 (basically wrapping up how these characters first met each other).
What I would've really appreciated was an epilogue, but of course, that's because i'm a plot-driven kind of girl and i like things tied up in neat little bows.
And if you think about the story that way, all the loose ends are tied up.
Well, replace Fred Astaire with Charles Dickens, and Ginger Rogers with Sarah Waters, and you have The Night Watch.
Were Charles Dickens to read The Night Watch, he might blush at the hot girl-on-girl action, but I think he'd be downright envious of the deftness with which Waters sweeps these characters across more than a decade of war and its aftermath -- backwards.
No, she literally tells the story backwards -- beginning at the end and working toward the first meeting between two of the main characters.
Waters' prose reminds me of Margaret Mahy -- slow and lyrical, with surprising moments of whimsy.
I was less thrilled with the fact the book starts in 1947 London and works its way backwards to 1941.
So it looks like I've ended up neutral on that point.For all its time-travelling, this is mainly a novel about queer women trying to survive the war, and once that's done, trying to survive that.
But, you know, backwards.Four stars for the wonderful writing, and for four equally interesting narrators.
I'll definitely be reading more by Waters.
You might think that this backward chronology would kill suspense, but actually it lends the novel a new kind of tension: you are curious as to why the characters are in their current positions, and what has happened to them, and that curiosity keeps you with Waters as she gradually reveals the truth.
Kay in particular seems to pulsate with life during the war; following the return of peace, she seems insubstantial, hollow, almost ghostly.Much as I love Waters's books, I don't think that this was my favourite.
It has an interesting construction - intertwined stories of several people's lives during the WW2 - beginning at the end and going back in time, and I liked to read about all characters, although Duncan's prison moments were sometimes hard to bear.
I don't know how to explain it, but I felt as if she herself were grossed out with the world and people she was writing about, as if she didn't really like them...
UGH whatever I still like Sarah Waters.
I'd like to see her write a nice story for Mickey, the character I cared for the most.
Pretty sure this is the first book I've read that has gay ladies as main characters?????
But I did find it slightly frustrating in this book.
I guess it's cool that I don't know where the characters end up after 1947, but goddamnit I want to know!But overall it was really enjoyable and Sarah Waters is a pretty good writer.
I'll be reading more of her stuff.(oh, but content warning for a graphic self-injury scene that was extremely difficult and upsetting to read)(plus content warning for suicide which was pretty upsetting as well)(view spoiler)[And I don't care that Duncan didn't explicitly state it in the text, he's gay and I won't hear anything else said about it.
