https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311153.The_Spanish_Bride
I would have given much to have been a witness to their real life travels – let's just say that neither of the Smiths believed in travelling light!The reverse is true of Johnny Kincaid – I thought he was quite a major player in this book – maybe my memory was playing tricks on me because both he & Harry Smith appear in An Infamous ArmyI could only find a picture of him as an older man.
I also found some of them when older which shows the ones of them as young people were likely to be true to life.
He frequently employs a variety of British regional accents to depict the various rank-and-file soldiers throughout the story, and once again, he is excellent.He delivers the narrative with a great deal of expression and nuance, and is especially good at injecting a sense of urgency into the battle scenes and at conveying the camaraderie that exists between Harry and his friends.Awarding a grade for the content for this book proved difficult, because while I can hear that it’s well-researched and beautifully written, with Ms Heyer’s characteristic eye for detail and ability to write engaging characters, I also found there were chunks of the story where I zoned out.
A Regency romance with the focus on Captain (Brigade-Major) Harry Smith and the Spanish bride he takes into his heart, Juana, at the end of the siege of Badajos.
While most of the story is of the campaigns from the siege of Badajos up to Napoleon’s first abdication, the story of Harry and Juana swirls throughout providing us with an idea of how unusual it was for a well-born lady to “follow the drum”---the best comparisons are the reactions of Harry’s fellow officers and the soldiers in his brigade.Spanish Bride is neither one nor the other.
This barely fictionalized true story was so engaging I read Harry Smith's memoirs, and then Captain John Kincaids memoirs.
Imagine my surprise when some of the dialog Heyer used was right out of their own pens!
Not just a wonderful love story, but a great and exciting history of the Peninsular War and livestyle of Wellingtons officers and troops.
Harry and Juana spent the rest of their lives together and she went on almost every posting he had in his long career.
Sir Harry Smiths memoirs can be read on-line and Captain Kincaids are available from Amazon.
Without a doubt: I have enjoyed this book and I appreciate Heyer's work (a want to be most historically accurate).This novel reminds me An Infamous Army very much.
To really appreciate the information one can find here I should have read it with a detailed map on my desk and I should constantly have marked the movement of armies.
This is why I rate it at four stars and I think I am not going to reread it for a long time.I recommend reading Carol Clouds ꧁꧂'s review for more information.
Although, the second half of the book gets much better and the battles more enjoyable to read.
Plus, if you like Heyer's Regencies, towards the end of the story, Juana hangs out in London + it reminds you of her other books just a bit.The meeting of the two main characters is sweet + how they quickly marry.
Her research of the battles and of the characters is very well done.
You may have to skim a bit, but its still worth reading if you come into it thinking of it as a biography like story, with grit.
My Eleventh Georgette Heyer Based on the true story of Harry Smith and his wife Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith, this book is more military fiction than romance.
While she does portray the army patriotically, she does not gloss over the damage they can and do inflict.Convent raised orphan Juana is introduced in the 9th chapter and it's insta-love between her and Harry.
Juana becomes the camp belle despite being only 14 and Harry 19.
This is a love letter to being and army wife and it's more like an adventure novel.
The foreword had warned me and I should have put back this book on its virtual shelf then.The strength of Georgette Heyer regards historical romance is her ability to twist the plot, to involve too many melding and interfering characters, all that written in a light and rather humoristic tone, that makes it all generally a fluffy but highly entertaining romantic comedy.In this case, this is not too be expected.Georgette Heyer had most probably been enthralled by the story of Harry Smith and Juana, during the peninsular campaign and wanted to share that with her readers.
I never know what to expect from a Heyer novel because she was such a prolific writer. This one was frankly disappointing. It's pretty much a four-hundred-page history text about the Peninsular War (1808-1814), and Wellington's many victories against the French. The protagonists--Brigade-Major Harry Smith and his fourteen-year-old bride, Juana--are engaging, but (largely because this is based in fact, not fiction) they never develop or do much of anything except fall in love and survive a long string of battles. From a historical standpoint this novel is fascinating, but from a fictional standpoint I found it highly boring.
Even Heyer's An Infamous Army, which could be considered a sequel to this one with its focus on Waterloo and is so accurate that the cadets at Sandhurst reportedly read it as a battle study, cannot hold a candle to this one in terms of making the business of war accessible to non-soldiers.
Based on the first part of Sir Harry Smith's diaries and every other memoir of the Peninsular War that came into Heyer's hands, it follows the British Army from Badajos to Toulouse and on to Waterloo through the story of Harry Smith and his child bride, Juana Ponce de Leon.
I normally really enjoy Georgette Heyer's work, but I couldn't make it through this book. With 480 pages, I just quit at page 270 because the thought of slogging through 200 more pages was too much considering how many other books are out there. I think the problem is that this time the author got too bogged down in the historical army life detail, and it seemed like the "romance" and relationship between Juana and Harry was pretty much a sidenote. I won't let it detract me from reading more of her books though since I usually enjoy them!
brilliant.The Spanish Bride is nominally about the true story of Juana and Brigade-Major Harry Smith, and she brings them to life as very colorful and complex characters, but the book is high-jacked by the backdrop--a rich description of every battle in Wellington's campaign from Badajos to Toulouse in which the Light Division took part.
Heyer read every extant journal by the soldiers of the Light Division and researched the battles thoroughly, so that the effortless details which she brings to her Regency novels can also be found here.I think Heyer had the same crush on Wellington as a girl that I did; I love the choice quotes she drops in our laps.[...:] The hollow road was the Spaniards' undoing.
Once again I'm totally in awe of Georgette Heyer's ability to bring history to life.
She brings home the epic scale of the Napoleonic wars and makes you see them from a very human perspective.
Reading about the lives of the British soldiers, it seems incredible that they survived and succeeded with the conditions they were faced with.
It was also gripping following the progress of a relationship that looks like a recipe for disaster in so many ways, but managed to overcome the odds just as the army did.
I loved this book and am glad to have had such a vivid glimpse into a fascinating period and the lives of two really interesting people.

3.5 Stars. An enjoyable swirl of fact and fluff. Most of the characters we meet throughout were actual people, including Henry and Juana, giving the events a fizzy grittiness as they trudge through battle after battle and the bits in between. I’m definitely going to need to read more about this intriguing couple.
I've long had a great interest in the Peninsular and Napoleonic Wars, and I found my attention wandering for vast swathes of this; I can only guess at the soporific effect it would have on someone who does not have the same level of historical interest.I was also a little uneasy, not necessarily at how young Juana is at the beginning of this book, (since I know she really did marry Harry Smith at the age of fourteen, and since it wasn't unheard of for marriages to be contracted at that age, even towards the end of the Regency period), but rather at the attitude both she and other people show to the marriage.
This book was a gift from god to me, I didn't even plan to buy it.
It took to 2 weeks to read this but it was worth it !Time consuming ?
Yes.In some reviews these are marked as negatives of the book !
Made me her fan, I can't wait to read all of her books ( which are plenty) !
It's hard to believe she wasn't actually in the war with all the characters, the accuracy & the brilliance of describing environment and everything that happens around is just great !
The characters ( even the trivial ones ) were brilliantly created !
While I enjoy Heyer's historical romances, the books which are based on actual people and events are my favorites -- The Spanish Bride, Royal Escape, My Lord John (though unfinished), and to a certain extent An Infamous Army and The Conquerer (though unlike the first 3, the last 2 focus around fictional characters as well as real people).
I am a lover of English history, and Heyer does her research and knows her stuff; then she uses her knowledge and skill to bring the characters and events from history to life.
Might not be as interesting to someone who doesn't care for history.
For while it is indeed the story of a Spanish Bride, it is also a detailed history of the War in the Peninsula.
I'd say about 10-15 percent of the book is the love story of Harry Smith, English officer, and his wife Juana, Spanish noblewoman; but about 85-90% of it is a detailed account of Wellington's battles, troop movements, and strategies in the war against Napoleon.
It's a fascinating book with excellent details on the war and the life of an Army officer in that era, and I really enjoyed it; but if you're looking for a typical historical romance it won't be your cup of tea.
Harry and Juana seem destined to kill each other half the time in this romance of the Peninsular War by Georgette Heyer.
She is young, naive in some ways, but a real trouper in following the drum, and I liked that about her even as I doubted I would be the same.
Based on the letters of the real Brigade Major Harry Smith, this give some of the history of the Peninsular War and as little as I usually enjoy war stories, I enjoyed this.
I read that at one time it was used in military schools as a primer on the Peninsular campaigns.
...for all the gritty details about how war was actually fought where there were cavalry regiments and riflemen marching to war...as usual, without talking history, Heyer presents slice of history in all its vivid detail.
Good novelization of the love story of Captain Harry Smith of Wellington's army and his Spanish wife Juana, beginning with the siege of Badajos where they met, through Waterloo. It's a good read.
I knew this was historical fiction, but I thought I'd give it a chance anyway. Way too graphic for me about the during and after of a particular battle. I didn't care to read any more.
I love Georgette Heyer's romances, and I love Spain, but I just can't finish this book. I do not care about Wellington's army. Back to the London Season, please!
Roughly 75% of the book, Harry and Juana speak to each other in Spanish, and sometimes in French.
Harry and Juana are speaking Spanish to each other, and/or French.
They are not speaking mixed Spanish English.
Kiss me, alma mia di mi corazón.' I suppose I should just be grateful that it isn't all in Spanish, eh?
That part is a lot less annoying, because I imagine that Juana did speak mixed Spanish-English in those moments.
That would be 3 of the 24 books on my DNF shelf are by Heyer.I've now read or dnf'd all of Heyer's mysteries, and historical romances.
She isn't content to be sent back to England with the other officers' wives nor does she wish to FOLLOW the drum - no - Juana insists on riding right alongside Harry wherever he marches and she'll be there waiting when he returns.
Sparks often fly between the hot headed young married couple, especially when Juana becomes jealous, but through it all, she's by his side with her faithful horse Tiny and a menagerie of other pets, officers and staff.
Both Harry and Juana were real people and this is their story.
I knew going in that this was not a light Regency like so many of Heyer's best books.
But I found Heyer's account of the Battle of Waterloo in An Infamous Army not only entertaining but educational,, so thought I would give this a try as well.
Interestingly, unlike An Infamous Army, where the main characters were fictional but surrounded by real historical figures, in this book, even the main characters were real people.
And it sounds like they were fascinating people, or at least they led a fascinating life together.
Military history and romance all in one novel?
Their teasing and name-calling comes in tirades and bursts, but it is always followed by a clinging embrace.Heyer's description of the wedding night emotions was one of the most beautiful I've ever read - all without a single word relating to the actual physical act.
Don't attempt this book, however, if you don't want to learn some military history.
I only enjoyed it because of the human element Heyer puts into every account and the intermittent love story.I'm glad I finished it, although it was not easy.
I think in order to be a truly great author, one must have a facility with words, but also the subject matter must be dear to one, and must be real to one.
Heyer's clear love of history, romance and what was an overwhelming time in England's past, comes across powerfully.
Unlike most romances, she hasn't just focused of the relationship between the Harry and Juana, but their surrounding circumstances and those events in history,which play as big a role in the narrative of the book.
I think this book is must read for anyone with a love of period drama, war and romance.
During the Napoleonic wars, Brigade-Major Harry Smith falls in love with a fourteen year old Spanish gentlewoman.
For someone who has read a good number of Heyer books, this is an odd turn from the usual.
Harry and Juana were real people, and all the supporting cast and plot is a matter of historical record.
It's not as much frothy fun as her usual Regency romps, but it was actually a refreshing change to read a Heyer hero who isn't a paragon, a heroine who isn't perfection, and a reasonably plausible plot.
