https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/598160.Polar_Bear_Polar_Bear_What_Do_You_Hear_
Vastly superior to Brown Bear, Brown Bear (in my humble opinion), and infinitely more entertaining when read to you by a 2-year-old who conflates the two and starts saying things like, "Polar Bear, Polar Bear, what do you see? I see a hippopotamus snorting at me." It's been suggested that this is evidence of the deep state's inherent distrust of autocratic authority, but I have yet to see any reliable scholarship or intel to confirm that supposition.
The key to reading this one out loud is getting into character as the animals.
You've got to roar like a lion, growl like a polar Bear and hiss like a Boa Constricter.
Be the Bear.
little Ones Dig it.
And when you are phoning in the performance they will know that too.
So don't phone it in.I think one key to Carle's success is his his wonderfully inventive and eye-pleasing palette.
Dude has a purple walrus here and a Blue Hippo.
Man, I dig that.
What is it in my heart, that responds so to a Purple Walrus?
Crazy, man.
5 stars for Eric Carle's art.1 star for Bill Martin Jr.'s words.= a grudging average of 3 stars.I tried, D.
I fully committed to the animals, man.
I gained weight to play the purple walrus (how the hell am I going to lose it?).
I painted myself with gentian violet, grew a handlebar mustache, jammed a couple of carrots under my lip and flopped around grunting.I poured honey all over myself and rolled in flour to play the titular Polar Bear.
Every word is dissonant to me, and I just can't stand it, despite the beautiful art.
Any chance you'll post a reading on You Tube?
I grabbed this because I was doing story time and Brown Bear was missing. Pro-tip do not take this into storytime unless you know what a flamingo and a peacock sound like.
Delightful read aloud. New rule: if you read the same book to a small child more than 20 times in one day, it counts toward your GoodReads challenge. ;)
I was surprised at how much my kids laughed at this book -- I think they decided all the words for animal noises (bray, hiss, snort, etc.) were pretty funny sounding, and I guess I'd have to agree. This is certainly my favorite "Brown Bear" sequel. The illustrations are great, as usual, and of course we can count on Eric Carle to not make *all* of the animals normal colors, considering the magenta walrus at the end. ;-)
Cute! I'm surprised I haven't read this one before. I used it for a zoo-themed family storytime on 10/9/18. Lots of good vocabulary words for little people: yelp, bellow, flute, etc.
This book is exciting to read and while reading, you may find that the characters of the animals create a rhythmic sound.
You could easily create a melody or make this book into your own sing-a-long that will engage the children into the characters and movement of these zoo animals.
Then the teacher re-reads the story and includes each child and their best version of their animal, a speaking part in the story.
Another way in being creative with this story, is re-read this story and have the children GUESS the animal from the description of the sound it makes.
Is a fabulous book for getting children used to rhythmic words.
I have read this book lots of time to children and they always enjoy repeating the story with me.
It is very good in encouraging drama and role-play skills; I have used it in a cross-curricular way incorporating it in a PE lesson getting the children to pretend that that they are the different animals in the story, and to move around like them.
It would also be a good story to read when looking at repetitive refrains in stories.
I would recommend this book for children up to the age of around 5/6 years.
There are some good words in the text to describe the sounds animals make, but they are hard to reproduce when reading to a small child if you've never actually heard the sounds in question.
my son picked up on the pattern of the pages and started chiming in to read the story with me after just a few pages.
He also requested it for a second read.
Something about the book appeals to his child senses that doesn't hit my adult ones, and that's worth looking at.
That's worth at least a star in my book.
E: "I don't like how it's kind of like a song."
Text-To-Text ConnectionThis book is closely connected to Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What do you see? Although in this book the animals are describing what they hear it is still a connection between what the animals see in Brown Bear, Brown Bear. Being able to identify what the animals hear from the way something sounds they are using one of their five senses. In the story, Brown Bear, Brown Bear, the animals are using another one of their five senses which if to see.
Cute book..my son loves trying to push the buttons and hear the sounds of the different animals!
"are you want you want a book a book a book a book I like the book hey Bam!" -actual review
I love the vibrant colors used in the illustrations for this book! The simplicity and rhymes make this book perfect for a toddler classroom. I think that this book would encourage children to engage in acting out the animal sounds of each animal pictured in the book. While reading this story out loud I would emphasize the characteristics of each animal. This book would also be a easy story for a child to memorize, which makes the read a loud even more fun and interactive!
This was great that inside of the book it have many different animal. It is a good way for kid to learn different kind of animal. Also kid can use their imagination to guess the sound of each animal.
Another one of my favorite books growing up, I believe these types of beginners books are awesome because they have lasted for so many years that it makes me as a teacher really want to have students read them.
Students anywhere from 4 to 5 or 6 would enjoy this book.Reading in groups: This book could be fun to read in a group because it is asking a question.
This could be a fun book to read on break or at snack.Literary Devices: No literary devices used but the book does have awesome pictures that help the students with the vocabulary.
The "hear" part was a bit weird for me - "I hear a boa constrictor hissing at me", or whatever animal making whatever noise.
Weird, but I can deal.
The zookeeper then hears all these kids making the animal noises and they're dressed up like the animals, sort of.
And my son looks at those strange kids and wonders what the heck they're doing.
He likes the last pages of all the other books because you see all the animals together, just smaller.
As a side note, my son would like you to know that "the zebra looks mean" and "that zebra scares me."
This book is about a range of zoo animals and their distinctive sounds.The polar bears can hear a roaring lion.
The flamingo can hear a zebra braying in his ear.
The sounds are being imitated by the children for the zoo keeper.This book is ideal for nursery children.It is repetitive and contains rhyme.The text is very simple so it is easy for the children to memorize it.
The book also provides the opportunity for children to learn the names of all the different zoo animals and imitate the sounds that they make.
I believe “Polar Bear, Polar Bear, What Do You Hear?” is a book that all children will love. The colors used are vibrant and eye catching. With each new animal introduced, the same question is repeated. Children can participate by asking the question and making the animal sounds.You could extend this book by having the children work together to put story pieces in the correct order according to the book.
Caleb has been reading this in preschool so we have obtained a copy for ourselves. What can I say it is Bill Martin? I love his work!!! It is simple, easy to read, and both my children love him. I read him when I was growing up and I am sure my grandchildren will be as well. You can take so much from these books just besides reading but art crafts, but cooking and other fun things to do.
In this book the children love to make the sound of each animal, it teaches language skills and motor skills we pretend to be all the animals in the book roaring and stomping and all the other actions and sounds that goes with each animals. We did our own adaptations.
This is a nice book for pre-k classrooms. It teaches about the animals noises. It has great repetition so that the students can join in on the reading. The illustration are nice and colorful, as well. Children will love to memorize this one and read it over and over again!
I read this to a 4k group. One child immediately made the association with Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See? We had a lot of fun with this book. The kids got so excited I had to calm them down in order to keep reading at one point. Great book.
This Bill Martin Jr. Is great for working with young children's listening skills! I have always enjoyed reading this story in a soft, quiet voice so that the children can focus on what they're hearing and need to listen for in the story's sequence.
Aaliyah requested that we read, "Brown Bear, Brown Bear," so I got this book, and, "Baby Bear, Baby Bear," too. She loves them all! :)
Mommy: one of my faves!! 5 stars!Leila: 4 stars I like it a little bit. I liked the end of the story. Maxwell: 1 Star. I didn’t like it as much. I liked all the children playing.
It's weird that me of the past rated Brown Bear 5 stars and this one 2 stars. Guess you don't fuck with a classic.
Carle's characteristically inventive, jewel-toned artwork forms a seamless succession of images that fairly leap off the pages, and educator Martin, ever tuned in to what children like best, has assembled a thoroughly rowdy menagerie--including a fluting flamingo, bellowing walrus and hissing boa constrictor, to name a few--imitations of whose sounds will doubtless soon be echoing in many homes and classrooms.
Attractive but not quite up to its predecessor: the text seems a little strained (especially some of the attributed voices--do peacocks yelp?), and the conclusion lacks the extra levels of meaning that made Brown Bear special.Response to Two Professional Reviews: The first review raves about this spin-off book.
Polar Bear, Polar Bear is a great book to utilize in Early Childhood Education!
Children in this age group learn to love these books and in my experience love predicting which animal comes next.
Children also can learn to read along very easily with this book because of the repetition of the phrases on each page.
I also like that this book has some unique animals featured on its pages that children may not otherwise learn about very frequently.
The simplicity of this book is a great feature.
