https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2172464.Disavowals
Cahun's art world profile has risen steadily in recent years and her photographic work is now perceived as a precursor to Cindy Sherman and others.
Although there are arguments over whether Cahun's 'self-portraits' were made by her alone, or were produced in collaboration with her lover Suzanne Malherbe, the actual images nonetheless retain their power as extraordinary examples of gender bending.
To date Cahun's writing has not been readily accessible to English readers, something that will change with the publication of this translation of her book Aveux non Avenus, which interlaces text and collaged images into an integral whole.Read the full review here: http://www.stewarthomesociety.org/sex...
I've had this book sitting on my nightstand for a few months, and I'd pick it up and read from it once in a while.
Cahun was brilliant with words and word play.
Other parts remained opaque and it will be interesting to see whether that changes if I re-read this.
I do think I will re-read it at some point.As much as Cahun resonated with me, the relentless slight of hand became wearisome.
I would like to explore some of Cahun's writing later in their life to see how it compares.The collages were fantastic, particularly the last one in the book.
This edition is the English translation from 2007, which does a good job of tracking the allusions and idiomatic games played here, but seems to miss one obvious influence running through the text: Nietzsche.
Many of his ideas and phrasings are inserted here (going beyond good and evil, the eternal recurrence, the superman), but in the detached mode of Catholic reading, which senses and is uncommitted to the particular Germanic religion that informed his outlook, and allows for Christianity to be more than a solitary ego questing for a God it can't recognise.
Bright/stormy.
Cahun purposefully made this book extremely difficult to penetrate.
However, she creates a masterpieces of stream of consciousness that provide readers a unique look inside her mind and the nature of relationships, bisexuality, assexuality, God, atheism, Christianity, and many of topics too numerous to name.
The photos are intriguing and on the level of many modern photographers, without a doubt.
It certainly is reminiscent of Gertrude Stein, but I prefer Cahun's style.
I cannot wait to read it again.
I certainly will continue reading it for the rest of my life.
If you hate modernist writing, do not read this book!

english version of "aveux non avenus", cahun's wild and loose autobiography-- written in prose, verse, letters, surreal proverbs, a self-conducted interview, and in lovely photomontages (these images are the strongest element). her writing style irritated me at first, but soon i became somewhat mesmerized.
Esoteric Narcissism or Narcissistic Esoterism? I can't quite decide, but this experimental autobiography read like a pre-Tumblr ride through beauty and torment. It's very inspirational at times, at times like an adolescent cacophony of pretty words. If you read to be immersed in the experience of Others, this is a good ride.
Personal lukewarm reception to this book and not sure what all the fuss is about. But glad I read it.
779.092 C1329 2007
