https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168311.Arcanum_17
i read this years ago, when i was really knee deep in surrealism, i said to hell with american lit, 

A tough read that did not age as well as it could've. Still moments of greatness and pure surrealist diss/association
Une (non) structure. Une écriture automatique peu évidente pour moi, heureusement cela va mieux dans la seconde partie : Des concepts ésotériques, l’étoile et toujours le surréalisme.
Reminds me of James Joyce writings. Lots of pages of mostly single thoughts etc. Not to be read for entertainment.
What to say? I love surrealism and André Breton in particular, so my judgement could be a bit biased. Nevertheless, as a matter of fact, this was a great piece of work.In particular Breton description of the natural landscape of Percé Rock and his reflections on the meaning of liberty, education, the role of women in the society and the absurdity of war are so modern, beautifully written and revealing that I couldn't help reading some of the pages two of three times. Wonderful!!!
3 stars (2 for enjoyment and a bump for intelligence and wonderfully lyrical prose).Breton's Arcanum 17 is essentially a long essay in which he muses about love, loss, war, feminism, and a number of other things.
This is one of those books that I couldn't read in bed for fear of falling asleep.
In fact I fell asleep reading this on my couch, in my car (with my husband driving), and multiple times in bed.It's well written and there is no question that he is an intellectual powerhouse.
The writing is poetic and I liked how he blended imagery form nature into his philosophical musings.I am at a loss for why it is on the 1001 list.
An odd, rambling account of political liberty, womanhood, and natural beauty. Beautifully written at times, but also obscure and personal. Some sections read like a string of Joycean epiphanies loosely connected to the book's themes, while other sections read like a political manifesto. I feel as if I may have had a stronger connection to the work if I had been reading it at a certain time in my life--or perhaps if I had lived through that moment in history between the wars upon which Breton was reflecting.
Andre Breton is one of those deep thinkers and his writing is such that it is not easily understandable. You have to take every sentence and break it down in order to get the exact meaning of what he is trying to communicate. The only way I found out what this book was about is by reading the translator's introduction. For that reason, I am giving this book 2 stars and I doubt that I would read anything else that he has written.
a marvelous work!
