https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206087.Madeline_in_London
We love this book, we haven't read it for years. An absolute favourite of my daughter when small, still really enjoyable now.Madeline and her school go to London to visit Pepito who has been pining for his friends. They decide to buy him a gift and as they can't afford a young horse they buy a retired horse who brushes up like new. The horses antics really made my daughter laugh and we love the way he is taken home to the house covered in vines and incorporated into their bedtime routine.We love the hunour and use of colour.
My French friends have always told me what fond memories Madeline books have for them. I can see why after reading this book - funny and warm - very enjoyable.
It's through this - this bathing - in language that we acquire it.And picture books, those mad clever things, help that process immensely.The book that I've chosen as an example for this post is the divine Madeline in London by Ludwig Bemelmans.
You, as the reader, are pulled straight into the story and through the performing of it, you become the narrator.
They give you confidence as a reader; the ability to know that the language will go badumbadumbadum and then revel in the moment when it does because you knew it was coming.
When it comes to the books versus other forms of media, I have to admit that Madeline is better as a television series than book.Pepito is leaving Paris because his father as the Spanish Ambassador needs to relocate to London and every one is heart broken.
The horse is a retired royal guard for the Queen and that trumpet sound is a trigger for the horse so off they go all over London.In the end Pepito couldn't keep the horse and it now resides with Madeline and the other girls.
Madeline and her classmates, together with their teacher Miss Clavel, leave their vine-covered Parisian boarding school and journey to London, where they meet up once again with Pepito, the Spanish Ambassador's son who was first introduced in  Madeline and the Bad Hat . Hoping to cheer him up, they have come to celebrate Pepito's birthday, pooling their money in order to buy him a horse. When this new equine companion takes off with Pepito and Madeline astride, Miss Clavell and the girls set out
Madeline and her classmates, together with their teacher Miss Clavel, leave their vine-covered Parisian boarding school and journey to London, where they meet up once again with Pepito, the Spanish Ambassador's son who was first introduced in 
When this new equine companion takes off with Pepito and Madeline astride, Miss Clavell and the girls set out to find them, and all enjoy a tour of London.
I continue to be mostly indifferent, both to Bemelmans' artwork - I don't hate it, but I can't say I enjoy it either - and to his stories, which, despite some promising themes - the girls' adopt a dog in 
Madeline is one of those characters that is timeless. Also, the illustrations. Why did people stop making illustrations this lively?
Enchanting illustrations and lively story, featuring one of the most beguiling characters in all of children's literature, who travels to London to help her ailing friend, Pepito.
This was a cute story but I prefer the original Madeline story.
Grade range: 2-5Genre: Contemporary RealisticThis is such a fun adventure. Madeline always gets into some of the craziest antics. I think children of any age could get into and love Madeline. I have always loved Madeline, and this book is no different. This book could especially be interested to students who like horses, because Madeline goes on an adventure with a horse.
This is a classic book that I read many times as a child. It teaches the true meaning of friendship and forming relationships. Lending a helping hand can go a long way!
This one had some parts I liked least out of all of the books (the way the horse was traded around like an inanimate object, the reference to glue) and some parts I loved best (the way the horse wasn't just thrown away, the way the horse was welcomed into the home).I think all of the Madeline books we've read have been followed along with listening to the audio story and I wouldn't have it any other way.
Every night before he has to go to bed, my nephew and I read at least one physical book (sometimes two) and a digital story or two.
My mother found these books at her local thrift store and sent them to us to see if he would like to read them.He LOVES the Madeline series and asks to read one of the six my mother found for us.
I love that each book starts out the same way, with the same rhyming that flows smoothly and tells a great story within its few pages.
I look forward to more of Madeline and her 11 orphan "sisters" antics in future books!
I looked at a list on books from the 1900's, and found this Madeline in London book.
I love the Madeline books.
The first page of this book has small drawings of the girls, the the traditional start: In an old house in Paris that was covered in vines, etc.
He and his family move to London, and Pepito misses the little girls so much, that he stops eating and gets sick.
He and the little girls had been fighting in Paris, but the little girls missed him as well.
Pepito's parents invite the girls to London, and pay there way there.
Madeline in London is a wonderful book that tells of Miss Clavel and her girls (including Madeline)and there visit to London.
They are going in order to see their royal friend Pepito.
For Pepitos birthday the girls bring him a horse as a presnt.
Unfortunately, the horse becomes ill.
They all decide that it would be best to take the horse back to Paris in order for him to be well-taken care of.
This book is truly a children's classic.
The illustrator uses a mixture of colors throughout the book.
I would reccomend this book for grades 1-3.
I love this book! I had no idea that its main character would be a horse. I love how the children save the old horse not once but twice. This is a fun book that explores London and some of its customs. It can also be used for teaching lessons about rhyming. I would have my students pick another city to rhyme about and make characters. I plan to have this book in my reading corner and use it when I am covering world geography and writing.
Madeline in London is just one of the books in the Madeline series. It follows Madeline and the rest of the boarding school girls to the London embassy for young Pepito's birthday. He gets the horse that he wanted, but it ends up causing mischief so it goes home with Madeline. These stories can be a fun way to introduce rhyme in the classroom. The students can also learn about cities in other countries, such as London and Paris.
Madeline and her housemates make a trip to London to visit their friend, Pepito, for his birthday. They buy him a horse who eats up an entire garden. When Pepito's mother tells him the horse cannot stay, Madeline decides to bring him home with them. I really like the way the people are drawn in this book. The pictures are very beautiful and complement this rhyming book all throughout.
Impulse buy while on a book-shopping spree in Waterstones - but not to be regretted. Love the illustrations, so satisfyingly dense with colour; Miss Clavel is almost Chagell-esque. Storyline progresses at great rate: favourite line is about the horse they save "Some poor old dobbins are made into glue, But not this one - Look, he's good as new."
My kids are all for renting a horse now. But that's probably because in the book they seem to keep him, not rent him. A fun, random adventure for the twelve little girls in two straight lines. I had to scold myself for being so American, however. I couldn't believe how quick the trip seemed until I remembered that I had a flight from America in my head rather than a flight from France.
Madeline in London is one of many stories in a series. These books are so much fun to read because of the adventures that Madeline goes on with her friends. They are always learning new things and experiencing new things as well. It is a book that many children can relate to and make personal connections.
The art in this book is more sophisticate, clear, and vivid than in the prior editions I reviewed. But for the increase in artistic ability there has been a corresponding decrease in literary value. The book is longer and the rhymes seem more forced than usual. I wonder if this book is a classic out of sentimentality more than merit. Why do the Madeline stories endure?
These Madeline books are so so enjoyable to read, especially this one, where they went to London.
There's too much going on in this story. I wonder what I would have thought of it when I was a child.
Pepito and his ambassador father moves to London. This story has an accurate setting, plot, and characters. It has a diverse group of characters, some that are Spanish, others from Paris, and London. I believe this book would be more attractive to a child who is between the age of 4-7. The poetry is what I believe would attract very young kids and get them to understand the story better. The plot is very clear and the lifestyles of the characters are accurate. The story is focused on one character unlike the others.
Ages: 5 - 8Cleanliness: "good heavens" is said.**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Madeline gave Pepito a horse for his birthday but the horse ate everything in the garden. It has to be taken away in a jet and then, there are now thirteen.A delightful story. So are the four before. Flawless and inventive. This shows quality triumph over quantity. Everyone will never forget a classic. These six books of Madeline are unforgettable.
Pepito moves to London with his parents and soon invites Madeline and the girls to come visit their embassy. Since they forgot a present Miss Calvel gets an old her for Pepito. Pepito loves the horse but when the horse gets him trouble he has to return the gift. The girls really like the horse so they take it back home with them.
Pepito moves to England, and Madeline and the girls, along with Miss Clavis, go for a visit. They arrive in time to help Pepito enjoy his birthday. The girls give Pepito a horse for his birthday, and the adventure begins.
Madeline and the 12 other little girls are invited to London to visit their friend, the ambassador's son.
i'd have appreciated for the movie to include a horse
