https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958452.Sold
As of the writing of this book, Zana's sister Nadia was still in Yemen.
Part of Zana's motivation for writing the book was to let people know what had happened to her and to raise enough awareness to get her sister out of there.
Nadia has since returned to England with her children.I don't know what became of their father, the man responsible for selling them to two Yemeni families for 1300 pounds each.
Toward the end of the book, when Zana is about to get a divorce from the man she was forced to marry, her father called, begging her not to leave Yemen.
This brutal narrative by an English-born young Yemeni woman and her sister who were sold into slavery by their father is absolutely horrific.
The girls were sent to Yemen on the pretext of a vacation to visit family then sold and married off in a vicious male-dominated society.
There is absolutely nothing nice to be said about such a man!Memoir of two young English-Yemeni sisters who are 'sold' into marriage, literally, by their father.
They are cast into the tiny rural mountainous village where they are ruled by their husbands and male relatives and live as virtual slaves (but then mere survival in mountainous outposts of the world is slave-like in nature anyway!).
Quiere leer sobre conductas machistas extremas ??? lea esto y siéntase impotente y miserable de no poder ayudar a estas pobres mujeres ...Siéntase feliz de vivir en occidente y entienda el feminismo cómo igualdad de derechos. (No como una moda que promueve odiosidades)que pena...que rabia...que crudeza...este libro me sacó ronchas
.. of slavery under the name of marriage :(For fifteen year old zana and her sister nadia born and raised in Birmingham, a trip to visit relatives in Yemen sounded like a dream come true.But the holiday soon turned into a terrifying nightmare when they discovered that their father had sold then into arranged marriages .
But only Zana was given permission to leave.
Her choice to stay in a life of slavery or to leave her young son and sister and finally go home is a heartbreaking moment in this shocking story of courage and sisterhood in the face of unimaginable cruelty.

Fascinating story, but poorly written.
This is the barebones story of two young teenagers who are sold into marriage by their Yemeni father.
The author finally makes it home to England, but has to leave her younger sister, son, niece, and nephew behind.
This all happened over thirty years ago, but I don't think much has changed in Yemen for women.
The father was truly wretched, but I thought the mother was a bit of a dope.
She had lost two other children in a similar manner previous to these two girls, yet she goes on to have FIVE more children with him.
I respect that the lady went through hell and i am not trying to comment on her life but on this book ..........................................................................after days I re-read it again , it's write that the story is written in bad way but the book is very sad ,About how cruel life could be.
The ladyis very brave and I hope she get's some kind of closure because life wasn't easy for her (This book open my eyes to these kind of books, to give them a chance and not dismiss them from the title).
Memoir of two young English-Yemeni sisters who are 'sold' into marriage.
Their Dad, convinces the girls to "go on vacation to visit family in Yemen", where, upon their arrival at the relatives village, he sells them into marriage and returns to the UK..
They are cast into the tiny rural mountainous village where they are ruled by their husbands and male relatives and live as slaves.
There they work from dawn to sunset, fetching water, cooking.
They also have no electricity or running water.
It is a grim tale of male rule in the Middle East and in the Islamic culture as we know of it.
I usually find autobiographies or books that are telling a real life event kind of boring, and I normally find myself skipping some pages.
"Sold" tells a shocking story about two Yemeni sisters that were literally sold (for 1,300 pounds each) into marriage with Yemen man by their own father .
This happened when Zana was only 15 and her sister was one year younger.
The story shows how some people can be extremely close-minded, always following and obeying traditions from centuries ago.
The story only comes to prove that still nowadays, there are many problems in third world countries, that seem to be from years ago.
men of Yementreat your women betteryou owe it to Godto do so!
Bu öykü, çağdaş dünyamızda hala hüküm süren en ilkel bazı unsurlarla dünyadaki en nitelikli bazı insanlar arasındaki çatışmayı anlatır...O gece, bizi üzerimizden kilitlemeye ihtiyaç duymadılar. Kaçabiliceğim hiçbir yer yoktu. Abdullah içeri girip babasının söylediklerini yaptı. Hareketsiz yattım; ona karşı koymadım...Ölümü düşününce mutlu olmuştum, çünkü bu benim Yemen'den kurtulmam için bir neden olabilirdi...Mokbana bölgesinde yaşayan kızları izleyen bir Tanrı'nın varlığına inanmak çok zordu...
Well written book. Living in the contemporary Middle East, it was hard to imagine that this happens but in small towns and underdeveloped countries, undoubtedly it does. My heart went out to the author as she retold her situation and her fathers unwillingness to accept his upbringing of daughters in a western world.
Mis papás me lo prestaron cuando tenía doce años,explicándome que era una historia real y que era bastante fuerte,si quería dejarlo en algún momento que lo hiciera sin dudarlo.
La enseñanza que yo misma declaré al finalizar el libro con mis doce años es que la vida no es perfecta para cada una de las personas que habitan en la tierra.
This autobiography told by Zana, one of two young teenage sisters from Birmingham, whose father told them he was taking them abroad for a holiday, but instead sold them into marriage and slavery to boys they had never met and who lived in the Yemeni mountains.In the Yemen were forced to live in poverty stricken villages and were cruelly treated.
Nadia stayed behind to be with her children.Both sisters eventually came home (Zana before she wrote this book; Nadia only after 23 years).
I would however thoroughly recommend this book, as it is a shocking story about modern day slavery that shockingly still exists in this day and age.
Young girls are 'sold' by their family and taken out of the country my first question was 'whats going on with the school system why didn't anyone ask where the girls where?You will feel angry at Zana's father and the men that brought her, sad for the girls who had lost their family and friends, frustration as their Mum battled to get them back and outrage that women can still be treated like chattel.
The excuse 'this is the way its always been' is an insult to all the young girls who have and are still been subjected to rape, beatings and being treated as slaves.
actual rating: 2.5/5 starsThis book follows such a heavy topic that is very present in our society. How can a father sell his own daughters?! But despite that there were a lot of moments I felt very bored by the story and I felt that nothing really happens most of the time. It took me a long of time to read the book and the edition I read didn't help. The story was very touching but overall it was a 2.5/5 stars reading.
Massima solidarietà a Zana Muhsen, ma purtroppo un libro non si può valutare soltanto in base alla tristezza della storia raccontata o alle ingiustizie subite dalla protagonista.
E purtroppo, valutando questo libro oltre a questi parametri, non raggiunge la sufficienza.
Come se non bastasse, poi, detta vicenda é narrata, da un punto di vista meramente letterario, molto male: non apprezzo lo stile di scrittura dell'autrice, e trovo che gestisca male il ritmo della storia.
Quindi, per tutti questi motivi, il libro non riesce a raggiungere la sufficienza.
Antara sedih dan frustasi ketika lagi-lagi saya mengetahui bahwa di salah satu negeri timur tengah sana masih banyak wanita-wanita yang dibawah umur dipaksa menikah dengan lelaki yang tidak mereka kenal.
Salah satunya adalah Zana Muhsen dan adiknya Nadia Muhsen.
Sebelumnya mereka adalah keluarga imigran yang berasal dari Yaman yang hiduo nyaman dan tenang di Birmingham, London.
Ketika Zana berusia 15 tahun dan adiknya Nadia berusia 14 tahun mereka diajak "berlibur" ke Yaman oleh Ayahnya yang tanpa akhirnya terjebak dengan mereka sudah dinikahkan dengan Abdullah dan Mohammed.
perasaan jengkel dan frustasi ini menguasai saya kenapa betapa rendah dan hinanya perempuan di negara2 timur tengah?
Jest ciekawa, jak się czyta to się myśli o tej historii, a to lubię w książkach.Że historia głównych bohaterek jest smutna i trudna do wyobrażenia sobie, to oczywiste, dlatego chciałbym dodać kilka słów na temat ich "mężów".
Ale "taka jest tradycja, tak każe ojciec", więc ze strachu przed jego gniewem spełnia się jego wolę.Moim zdaniem historia tych chłopaków jest nie mniej tragiczna, a może nawet bardziej.
A te chłopaki nie mają nic - pewnie nigdy się nawet nad życiem nie zastanawiali - ojciec kazał, więc tak musi być i to jest wszystko.
Zana and Nadia's sold them and two older siblings to people in his homeland - Yemen.
It is surprising after losing her first two kids that their mother would have allowed Zana and Nadia to go.
What is really shameful is how Yemen allows this to happen and turns their back on the children this is happening to.
Also shameful is that England did nothing, until the press became involved.
At the very least, where England was aware of the problem they should not have been allowing children under the age of 18 to travel to Yemen.
This book absolutely ticks every box for me when it comes to a captivating story: innocence, conflict, determination, hope, and survival.
It is all packaged in a book that delivers a well written, easy to read flow that I could not put down.The synopsis is well enough described throughout the reviews and book description.
What isn't described is the journey of emotion the author takes you on.
That is a miraculous feat, bringing a reader to understand and accept a decision no parent could ever begin to comprehend having to make.I recommend this book to anyone who has the stomach for a heartbreaking story that ends not happily, but with a real sense of redemption.

The story of the excruciatingly painful life changes these girls went through, all because of their own belligerent father, is one we should all know.
Although it is grim at times, reading about Zana's story and her courageous fight gives you perspective of what life for other women who have no power over their lives, and where they lead.
Reading this not only raises awareness of what goes on miles away in countries like the Yemen, but insight into how privileged we are, and should appreciate the things we take for granted, and all fight for equality in every aspect of life, for people all around the world, particularly women to be freed of captivity by marriage and misogyny.
Very sad and tragic, what happened to these girls, at the hands of their own bastard father. Another book, though, that I cannot rate with a number of stars because it's somebody's LIFE we're talking about.For anyone who reads this, know that there was a follow up book, A Promise to Nadia. The first one, Sold, details how the sister, Zana, eventually got out of Yemen. A Promise to Nadia haven't read it yet) is said to detail the saga of getting the sister, Nadia, out of Yemen. Don't know yet if she makes it out.
Recuerdo cuando era muy pequeña, tendría unos ocho años, y mi madre leía muchísimo en aquella época. Y de su estantería recuerdo que el libro "Vendidas" me llamó muchísimo la atención. Es de esos libros que te dejan marcada, te hacen pensar, llegas a cabrearte. Este libro, basado en un hecho real, representa la crudeza de la situación de la mujer en Yemen, un libro de estremecedor relato que narra la situación de dos hermanas que son vendidas a dos hombres por su propio padre. Un libro recomendable para conocer la situación de la mujer en muchos lugares del mundo.
A heartbreaking appeal!How could those Arab men "buy" girls from overseas, claimed that they're married with documents whipped from no where, and without properly solemnised the marriage ceremony? I just can't imagine, modern British girls being sold to Arab men and to lead life of peasants among the deserts and mountains of Yemen, with no modern facilities, and forced to be the slaves of their in-laws!
Zana e Nadia, filhas de pai iemenita e mão britânica, vivem em Inglaterra. Um dia, após o início daquilo que pensavam ser umas férias de sonho, viram-se casadas à força numa aldeia perdida do Iémen, onde vieram a sofrer toda a casta de violências e humilhações. Após oito anos de luta, Zana conseguiu fugir. Mas Nadia, a sua filha e um sobrinho continuam ainda prisioneiros. Zana e a mãe juraram a si próprias fazê-los sair do Iémen...
Questa è una testimonianza, quindi non un racconto, non mi piace definire racconti questo tipi di libri. Atroce, perchè ci fa aprire gli occhi sul fatto che ci sono delle differenze culturali che non vengono quasi mai superate. Spero serva a far aprire gli occhi a tutti quelli che si illudono e a quelle donne che stupidamente continuano a farsi rovinare la vita non volendo vedere in faccia la realtà.
I read this book about two years ago, and it didn't make a huge impression on me as there are many other books on this topic. In RE today, we watched the documentary of this book, and actually seeing where the characters lived, and hearing their voices makes the book more real and sad. I really recommend seeing the documentary when reading this, the story is truly heartwrenching.
Finito di leggere. E'un libro duro, che fa riflettere sulla triste condizione femminile nei paesi arabi, non credo sia una storia isolata ma che siano situazioni che si verificano più spesso di quanto pensiamo.
