https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40526.Time_and_Again
The next stop in my time travel marathon (November being Science Fiction Month) and by far the best yet is Time and Again, a little known but much loved 1970 novel by Jack Finney that handles a fantastic premise -- a government project sends a man eighty-eight years into New York City's past -- with more imagination, sensuality and logic than any time travel story I've read.
At no point in the action did I feel that Finney was taking 20th century plot devices and running his time travelers through them; the workings of New York City in 1882 seems to inform every decision.
When I read a time travel story, I try not to dwell on how the character got to this other time and place.
So for me it has to be about the destination, what I find there, what happens there, what it means for the character in his or her present day.And oh what we find there in New York City in 1882!
Beautiful buildings some of which are still standing in Si Morley’s present day New York of 1970, interesting people, and in many ways, what Si seems to think are simpler, happier times.
However it served its purpose and we travelled to New York in 1882.
It was really heavy on detail - descriptions of streets, buildings, costumes, horses and snow.
Lots of snow.On the plus side the story really took off in the last part of the book when some exciting stuff happened at last.
In fact I am giving the ending a star all of its own!I have to assume that as someone who has sadly never yet seen New York I missed out on the magic of this book.
I thourghly enjoyed this book.
I love historical fiction, time travel, adventure, and a little romance.
The concept of time travel in this story is so natural and realistic that it becomes almost beliveable, it only requires imagination, the right setting, and faith.
My favorite thing about the novel though was the imagery created of 1882 New York City.
I can see why New Yorkers love this book.
No spoilers from me though, to enjoy the story of Si and Julia you will have to read the book.
It's time travel at it's best.
Finney wrote his story a few years before Matheson, and both of them may have been inspired by even earlier novels using hypnosis to alter reality.
Both heroes travel back to about the same year of the past, one to San Diego, one to New York.
There is an attempt to have a mystery story as a backbone to the novel and a source of suspense, but this felt flat and uninspired for me more often than not.In conclusion, some very good concepts about time travel and its implications, and excellent research, but the execution is less impressive.
This is put forth as a government project, and Finney attempts an exploration of the human motivation to use knowledge that shouldn't be used, to negative ends.So many obvious questions pop up, left unanswered, that the ridiculousness gets in the way of the story.
I think the breaking point for me was when Morely decides to interfere in his love interest's life upon the epiphany that the people of the 1880's are just as human and worthy as those of his time.
I'm not sure what happened with this time travel tale, where a man travels back to NYC in the late 1800's and gets involved in the lives of some people in a boarding house in that era, except that it got just a little slow for me about 1/2 or 2/3 through.
I keep meaning to get back to it but it's never happened, and it's been at least a year.
Time and Again is pretty well-written, though, and a lot of people like it a lot better than I did.
I've read a few and here's my quick and dirty order, so far:1) 11/22/63 - Stephen King2) Man in the Empty Suit - Sean Ferrell3) The Time Traveller's Wife- Audrey Niffenegger4) Time and Again - Jack FinneySo this one is in last place?
I love the options time travel opens up and each of the above does a brilliant job of exploiting that.
It's written and set in the 70's and this period (though I lived through it myself as a teenager and into my twenties) seems like a time travel adventure in itself.
I've just ordered and am about to read the follow up book published around the time of the author's death (1995).
If you like mystery, action and intrigue with a bit of romance and VERY DESCRIPTIVE details of the people, architecture and life in 1880's New York, you will like this book.
Interesting method of time travel.I was glad I happened to purchase the illustrated version of the book as the old photo's and sketches added to my enjoyment.
Loved the book!(view spoiler)[Surprised and a little confused at the ending when Si actually prevents the meeting of Danzinger's parents so he is never born and his method of hypnosis time travel not developed.
So, how did Si Morley ever get back there if Danzinger was never born??
This is a wonderfully gentle book about a New York man who travels back through time to the 19th century.
I am strangely taken by the Victorian era, especially Victorian New York City and this book managed to pull me right in.
Time and Again goes nicely along side Caleb Carr’s The Alienist and Angel of Darkness (two more recommended books) as wonderful portrayals of 19th century life in New York.
Where Caleb Carr’s novels are dark, gritty, and often disturbing, Finney’s 'Time and Again' is a light, romanticized view of those bygone days.
I loved this book.
There were times when I couldn't put it down, and it was facinating, and others, when I seriously considered not finishing it.I'm really glad that I did.It's obvious that the book isn't a modern read, it's got a some what old way of thinking to it.
Chapters that should have been expounded were too short, and other's that were boring and were too long.I feel as though I have developed a much stronger appreciation for history and the past.
And for that reason alone I would say that this book was worth reading.
Charming, but Flawed, Tale of Time Travel to 1882 New York"Time and Again" is certainly worth reading, but it has its flaws.For one thing,its far too long and plodding.
The book opens with Simon ("Si") Morley, young artist, working at a New York ad agency.
The project's method for time travel appears to be a combination of self-hypnosis, and surrounding the time travel "operatives" with clothing, reading material, and an environment suitable to the time and place they are time travelling to.
They get to the downtown Manhattan Post Office on the date and time the mysterious letter was postmarked and they see the man mailing it.
The probability that an absolutely un-second-glance-worthy twenty-something with no personality would be the most suitable person to travel through time, and the infuriating moment that comes when you realise that his then-girlfriend is, in fact, much better at this whole thing than he is, but, by virtue of being only the protagonist's girlfriend, is not recruited to the program by the starved-for-candidates leadership.The writing, itself, pained me from the start.
TIME AND AGAIN is probably the most famous novel about time-travel published in past half-century, and one of the most convincing.
It's an "illustrated novel" that's illustrated with photographs and woodcuttings of the early 1880s, when the main story is set.TIME AND AGAIN is regarded by some as mystery, and others as borderline sci-fi - it also has a nice romantic touch as well.
Richard Matheson, who penned his own famous novel about time-travel, BID TIME RETURN, paid tribute to Finney in the screen version, the much-loved SOMEWHERE IN TIME, by giving the name "Finney" to the professor who wrote the book which helps Christopher Reeve go back in time.
I like a good time travel story and I love New York City, so this was an ideal novel for me to read.
Its narrator, Si Morley, an advertising artist living in New York City in about 1970 (the year in which the novel was first published), is recruited to participate in a secret time travel project run by a government agency.
Finney clearly did extensive research into the time period and had a particular affinity for New York City at that time.
Finney's work allows a contempoarty reader to travel back in time to two distinct periods.
Pretty much anything I read, it's fun for me.But I can't remember the last time I've had THIS MUCH fun.So, a recap: Simon Morley is an illustrator working in the advertising business in 1970s New York.
As he enters a completely different New York than the one he is used to in the 1970s, Si has to walk a fine line between interacting with the people around him and trying not to influence events."Time and Again" was just a great, fun, wonderful book.
Some other reviewers have noted that they bogged down in the descriptions of 1880s New York.
dnf at 136 pagesthis book was really boring and it moved super slowly. there was just this one big plot, and everything kinda just happened. there were no problems, and everything basically worked.i also hated the characters. they all seemed pretty bland and the author tried too hard to make the main character seem funny but he really wasn’t.
He also has a personal agenda — Katie, the woman he has been dating, has a mystery in her own past, a grandfather who committed suicide and left a very cryptic letter reading as follows:That the sending of this should cause the Destruction by Fire of the entire World (word obscured) seems well-nigh incredible.
What follows is 300 pages filled with loving descriptions of the world of New York in the 1880s, a simpler, more vibrant time when people were happier and less complicated.
And we’re getting used to it.It’s always interesting to read a book about travel back in time that is itself already set in a world (1970) that is now in our past by almost a half century.
(insert second yawning emoji here)Listening to this on audio did not help, as the narrator was pretty monotone, and didn't put any punch into the characters.
When I did a check to see how much more of the book was left, I was quite surprised to see that I was already over 50% of the way through, and still not loving it.I'm thinking this might be a better 'read' than a 'listen'.
A book to read when you have time to appreciate the descriptions, and can be patient for the plot to take hold.
A strange cross between a secret-govt.-project time-travel sci-fi novel, a period mystery and a 19th
Maybe it is just me, maybe it is just now, but I could not read this. I got to page 130, and was utterly uninterested. There were a few good details about time and history, but the method of time travel seems too simple, too easy. All you need is a place unchanged by the years, knowledge of the period you're going to, and some good hypnosis? I know, it's fictional anyway, so who cares. And possibly I missed something, since I only read 130 pages. I really enjoyed Finney's Invasion of the Body-Snatchers, was why I got this.
New York 1880 Architecture and Urbanism in the Gilded Ageis an almost-ten-pound, 1100-page doorstop of a book by noted architect Robert A.
But monumental as it is in depicting an era, this book is nowhere near as much fun as visiting the New York City of 1882 in Jack Finney's “Time and Again.” Published in 1970 and generally considered a time-travel classic, “Time and Again” has none of the sophistication of later examples of the genre.
The action takes place over a few days in January 1882 when New York City was blanketed by snow.
I also couldn't get my head round how the time travel was supposed to work which irritated me a bit.
But, albeit requiring to suspend belief and taking the unbelievable as fact, the second half of the book was just great.
Very cleverly used the opportunities that the idea of time travel gives and the book switched from one that was dragging a bit to being one that I couldn't put down.
Definitely worth persevering with.So 3 stars for the first half, 5 stars for the second and 4 stars overall.
3 stars - It was good.A fun and light atmospheric read, but one that did not quite meet the expectations that its high reputation warrants.
It is slow moving for much of the book and I don't feel it has enough substance to stick with me for years after reading it.
-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: It may be that the strongest instinct of the human race, stronger than sex or hunger, is curiosity: the absolute need to know.
When I first read this book, about 30 years ago, I picked it up with great reluctance.
It is one of the few books I re-read, and every time I am delighted.
The world Si stepped into is one that my family first saw when they came to New York City.
Every trip to New York includes visits to spots mentioned in the book, and I can never look out at Central Park in the snow without thinking of that awakening to the world in the past.I'm due for a re-read, I think.
Great time travel book. Done in a way that you really believe it's possible. The book is very descriptive of the times both past and real time.
Si Morley is an artist working for an ad agency in NYC in 1970 when he is recruited by a quasi-governmental research agency to do experiments in time travel.
When he is asked by the committee to do something he doesn't feel is right, his decision will change the present in a way they never expected.I admit I am a time-travel fiction junkie--it's one of my favorite genres--and this is an excellent journey into the past, deftly blending science fiction, mystery, historical fiction and romance.
Of course, I'm a sucker for books about New York, and the idea of traveling back in time to satisfy one's curiosity about an earlier, long-lost New York is pretty much catnip to me.
The fact that Stephen King called it the best time-travel book ever written, and Audrey Niffenegger wrote the introduction to the new edition, certainly didn't hurt.There are a lot of other reasons to love this book.
He gets at many of the more interesting questions of time travel, such as: Doesn't it seem like people really looked different in the past?
Maybe I even loved it for its flaws.So--what to drink with a book about time travel in New York City?
This book was written in 1970 and is often thought as THE best time travel book.
Si Morley working for the army, travels back in time to the New York of 1882 trying to unravel a mystery.
The last part of this book was, for me, the most interesting and had a lot of parallels to today's time.
It was almost like traveling back to two different times, 1882 and 1970.
I think that for anybody that lives in NYC or who spends a great deal of time there this would be a great read.
I'm usually not a fan of science fiction but I enjoyed this story of time travel to New York City in the 1880's. It's a good story that includes love, intrigue and makes the reader experience that time period as Jack Finney transforms the reader through his descriptions of the sights, smells, and sounds of NYC in the 1880's.
