https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85391.Rabbit_Is_Rich
that, as the 46-year-old Rabbit stares at the page of his prayer book, which he thinks looks as “white and blank as the nape of Nelson's poor mute frail neck,” he is not weeping over how bittersweet and wonderful it all is, that his baby boy is growing up, marrying the woman he has impregnated and is taking his marriage vows.
Cunt would be a good flavor of ice cream, Sealtest ought to work on it.”You LOVE women, Rabbit, so stop calling them “cunts,” and grow up.
You're running from yourself, Rabbit, so stop blaming it on the women around you, and stop acting caged by a life you made.
Ah, you bad, bad boy, Mr. John Updike.It's 1979, Jimmy Carter is president, and it's a good time for selling Toyotas.
While I knew what I was getting into - this is the 3rd Rabbit book, I know by now he's no sweetheart - at times, it was too heavy on testosterone.
But during these times, as a female reader, it felt exclusionary (see: continued use of the C word), seen through a male's perspective by a male who doesn't really like women, even though he wants to have sex with most of them.
Rabbit screws his wife.
Rabbit fantasises about screwing his friend’s young wife.
Rabbit goes into four/five-page thought-stream with no paragraph breaks.
Rabbit wants very much to have sexual intercourse with another lady.
Rabbit isn’t really rich.
Randomise these sentences for 423pp, that’s Rabbit is Rich.
As for this comment that Rabbit is Rich is where Updike expanded upon the technical innovations in Ulysses—balls!
If Updike’s only intention was to write a supersize novel to reflect Rabbit’s distending gut and bank account, this is disappointing.
Watching Rabbit Angstrom at almost my age was fascinating.
The text is deliciously Proustian and I love the perspective on the 70s.
The world microcosm Brewster is alive fascinating as a study of America in the waning years of the 20th century's hangover after the 60s.
His descriptions of human relationships are among the most realistic I have ever read.
A must.A much better book IHMO than Redux, Rabbit is never really rich, but the text is incredibly rich in the relationships - particularly between Rabbit and his son - and fantastic writing.
It is perhaps my favorite of the series.
This third decade of Rabbit’s shenanigans is...
incredibly dull.
Didn’t the 70’s include all that Disco & outrageous fashion and pre-80s outrageous & vapid opulence?
It does exist in Rabbit’s (albeit OUR) America, but Rabbit has become such an old man (at the age of 46!) that he cannot enjoy his monetary glory at all.
He worries still, not for the well being of his family, no, but mostly over his own selfish hide, his manly desires fulfilled (though mostly not).
I hated the dialogue between the main couple and the country club bunnies; I hated that most of the time Rabbit and son talk about cars and materialistic stuff.
Too much plot has been a flaw in the other two - a disastrous one in Rabbit Redux, a minor one in Rabbit, Run. Updike gooses you with it here (view spoiler)[- when Rabbit's son Nelson semi-accidentally pushes his pregnant wife down the stairs, you've been feeling dread for pages and you're certain disaster is here -  (hide spoiler)] but he's teasing, he pulls it back.
Rabbit is surprised, I think, to find himself at middle age and happyish.
I'm surprised to find Updike recovering from Rabbit Redux.
It's not that I'm unfamiliar with Harry/Rabbit Angstrom's life journey to this point, having read the first two Rabbit volumes.
Maybe it's the same compulsion that draws us to stalk Facebook pages of high school acquaintances, to see what's happened to so-and-so we barely knew (or could hardly stand) decades later.
Perhaps the uniqueness of the Rabbit series is that Harry Angstrom has aged in real time, as the once-per-decade literary parachuting into his life for a few days or few weeks happens at about the same, real, calendar time.
A trent'anni è troppo tardi per leggere kerouac e troppo presto per leggere Updike, questo pensavo prima di trovare nella postfazione:Updike aveva spiegato che Corri, Coniglio era in parte una risposta a Sulla strada di Kerouac e inteso come una «dimostrazione realistica di cosa accade a un giovane padre di famiglia americano quando prende la strada»Ho letto senza saperlo il terzo episodio di una tetralogia (*1), e l'ho letto nel momento adeguato.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2017.
From BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:John Updike's masterful Rabbit quintet established Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom as the quintessential American White middle class male.
The first book Rabbit, Run was published in 1960 to critical acclaim.
Rabbit Redux was the second in the series, published in 1971 and charted the end of the sixties - featuring, among other things, the first American moon landing and the Vietnam War.This third book finds Rabbit in middle age and successful, having inherited his father in law's car business - selling newly imported Toyotas to the mass American market.
The former is set in 1979, dealing with the gas crisis, the last years of the Carter presidency, and a struggle to connect with his college age son who is just as lost as he was when he was that age.
For the first half of the book I felt that I was struggling again to connect with Rabbit who is now in his forties, his marriage is sound, and Rabbit is starting to earn a living running his deceased father-in-law's car dealership.
I read this book as the third in the Rabbit series (Rabbit, Run, Rabbit Redux, and then Rabbit is Rich).
A major theme in the book was the father-son relationship between Rabbit and Nelson.
I’m curious to read this book in 15 years, to see how my reaction may differ to this dynamic.
In fact, I’m going to hold off reading the next book, Rabbit at Rest, until I can relate, age-wise, with Rabbit a bit more.
If you’re curious what the baby boomer generation may have been going through during the late 70’s/early 80’s, this is a good book to read!
He likes being rich for the first time in his life and he feels sorry for his Dad who died poor.
Rabbit is jealous of his son(!) and feels competitive when he's around his home.
As nauseating as Rabbit is (and as entertaining as his story is), it wouldn't be the book that it is without Updike's gorgeous writing that serves to point out some life-truths every few pages.
This is the book where you feel closest to Harry, where you see his perspective and agree with him sometimes, which is a miracle considering everything he's done so far.
Easily the best Rabbit book so far.
He's rich, and in the third volume he miraculously manages not kill anyone while looking for some quick sex. Who says you can't learn from experience?
Rabbit is much more likable in this book, though he continues to desire things he can never have and follow his own thoughts in ways that he shouldn't.
I think many men are the same, and it must be disorienting to a modern woman reading this book, because, as much as she would like to think, not much has changed.Rabbit's stream of consciousness flows through long paragraphs laced with Americana from the 1970's.
It gets hard to breathe.One of Rabbit's musings leads him to reflect on "some article" he read in last year's newspaper by "some professor at Princeton's theory that in ancient times gods spoke directly to people." I did not expect to find Julian Jaynes here, but it is not a random thought.
He's now firmly ensconced in his role as Sales Manager for his dead father-in-law's Toyota dealership, he plays a lot of golf at the local country club, and he's really good friends with the man his wife ran off with for several months in the last novel "Rabbit Redux." He's still just as cruel and dim-witted as ever, but now he reads a lot of "Conusmer Reports" (which is one of the better recurring themes in the book, Rabbit's mindless consumerism).Oh, and he wants to screw EVERYTHING.
I have no doubt this book speaks to baby-boomers who lived through the Carter era and the sexual revolution before it.

ფანტასტიური წერის სტილი სავსე მამა-შვილური ურთიერთობებით და სექს ისტორიებით))ოთხტომეულის საუკეთესო წიგნია ჩემი აზრით.
It is 1979. Gas lines wrap around the block and there are hostages in Iran. I was in high school in 1979 and the setting is interesting to me because it is so real. It made me remember much that I had forgotten.Rabbit is older though not more mature. He is still a poor husband, father, friend, and boss. Worse, he is still a poor human. And yet the book is a good read. Updike works magic, making me care about the story even though I dislike the characters.
Told in that uniquely graceful prose that was the key to Updike's brilliance, this series stands out as a set of memorable portraits of a place (Pennsylvania), and an average man who lives there and deals with the changes in his world and in himself.
Some people have accused Updike's writing of being too vague, too hazy in terms of story and subject matter, but in this there is, if not a riveting plot, a series of developments and changes in a family's life over the course of about a year.But ah, that prose.
Updike settles Rabbit at the age of 46 in the middle of the Carter administration.
Thanks to the convenience of his father in law's death, Rabbit finds himself the chief sales rep for Springer Motors.
In the midst of the nation's first oil crisis, it's only natural that Springer Motors has obtained a Toyota distributorship.
The father-son rivalry for who will be king of the car lot is a central issue to "Rabbit is Rich." Updike's tone is sardonic.
Updike's novel takes the Pulitzer for literature and I won't quibble with that.
Maybe it's simply the benefit of having had Harry Angstrom in my head for two books already by now, but here he comes across as a more convincing, fully developed character than he did in, particularly, the second book.
The relationship between Angstrom and his son, Nelson is to my mind what the book is centred upon.
There are as always with Updike, some beautifully written passages (though I could do without the golf, being of a mind with Mark Twain on that sport) and where Redux had a lot of bad sex writing, Rich could more fairly be described as having a fair amount of writing about bad sex.
I enjoyed this one better than the previous book,Rabbit Redux. It was interesting to read this one as Rabbit is roughly the same age as I am now so I felt I could relate to some of his thoughts. A lot of thinking back upon life, feeling comfortable in the moment, yet wondering what the future holds as you see people around you pass on into the next life.Also, a lot of chuckling every time Consumer Reports was mentioned. It appeared to be Rabbit's bible!
Enjoyed the lazy flow of the story. Indulgent and .... rich ... isn’t that the title. Rabbit comes across as brash and arrogant in his stage of life. I liked the world he lives in.
This is the third book of a four part series about the life of Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1982. The book was entertaining and John Updike's dialogue between characters is funny. I give this book 4 stars and look forward to completing the last book in the series.
Made it to page 38 before I could no longer handle the toxic masculinity. Don't know how I tolerated the first 2 books. Will not attempt the last 2 books.
i love updike---i started reading the rabbit books and then got so fully into rabbit that i went through the series pretty quickly.
i liked updike's first in the series, "rabbit run," but it took me a while to really love him as much as i did by the time i got to "rabbit is rich".
updike is modern, in my view, in the sense that a lot of the work in these books seems to me to be asking about the possibilities of love and human connection---he is very careful to avoid sentimentality.
Rabbit is Rich takes us forward another decade to the end of the seventies, and Harry Angstrom's mid-forties.
The novel is baggier, looser and less shapely, and so is Harry: middle age has given him a paunch and a penchant for dreamy rumination that gives the book a dreamy, half-stoned air.
As such it paints a grotesque but convincing picture of the middle-aged Angstrom, a man who has come to wealth through the good offices of his father-in-law and who, at 45 lives in his mother-in-law's house.
Harry Angstrom has always been a great character, but in this book Nelson and Janice finally find their voice.
Rabbit finally has the adult voice Updike should have given him Rabbit Redux, but let's just call that regrettable book a '60s indiscretion.
What I thought was a false note, Rabbit's simple-minded lusting for a friend's wife, turns out to simply be a setup for a crucial scene.Perhaps I'm so enthralled with this book because I share a similar age with Rabbit - he's 46 and I'm 45.
I think this simply reflects that after 20 years Updike finally understood all the nuances to Harry, his great invention.
Turns out there wasn't, but John Updike is a gifted writer, in my opinion, and manages to infuse an unremarkable industrial town in Pennsylvania with the light of a thousand ships, illuminating every detail in eye-popping color.
Largely a figurehead running his wife's family's car dealership, he spends an inordinate amount of time fantasizing about his wife's friends, people who come into the dealership,etc...cue porn soundtrack....There is a lot of allusion to affairs of the past, dysfunctional relationships, and hardship, yet the family is still living together in the same household, chained to the past.
Although this was set in the 70's, and there are frequent cultural references to the decade, there are many parallels to the economic times we are currently living in.
