https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6760.Perspective_Made_Easy
If you had told me I'd read a 200+ page book on perspective drawing, I would have told you you've been drinking too much, but Norling's book was actually entertaining while covering what can be a very dry topic for artists and art students.Originally published in 1939, this Dover Book reprint has faithfully reproduced the original illustrations and the text is clear and easy to read.
The title is not deceiving! This will teach you all the essentials about perspective in a easy to read and fully illustrated manner. Well worth my time. I borrowed this from a friend, but if I ever start drawing more frequently, I might add this to my shelf as a quick reference book.
I have been reading a lot of books on the subject of perspective drawing recently and this book is one that is highly recommended by a lot of artists.
It goes about explaining things in round about ways with chunks of information here and there that would make it difficult for someone with no prior knowledge of 1, 2 and 3 point perspective to ever fully figure out the proper setup and construction of things.
I wouldn't recommend this at all to anyone.There were basically 2 pieces of information in this book that I enjoyed and that have not been covered in the other books I have read.
It's great that this book is going to be reprinted again, since its first publication in 1939. It's a very useful book.All the concepts of perspective are explained in plain and simple English. It teaches the basic foundation well, in a progressive manner where you build onto what you've learned earlier. Included are examples that emphasis the lesson point effectively. Once you get it, you get it forever.
This book is great for quickly getting a grasp on the concept of perspective in drawing. As it's an old book, the PDF is available online for free and you can work through it in a day or two. Especially recommended if you found Scott Robertson's book How To Draw a bit daunting. Just read this and then get back to Robertson's holy book.
Simply written, natural progression in topics and exercises, a fully accomplished, cheap, one-step shop for anyone interested in trying to get their head around perspective in construction and art. Dropping $10 on this to comprehensively approach a consistently understudied aspect for art beginners is a solid investment.
Well-written explanations so far, highly recommended for beginners in perspective.But, I would more recommend to watch a video if you want to study perspective or other "how to draw" things, since it more easy to understand. There's a lot of it.Perspective is one of the most essential skills that every artist should master.
A great introduction that covers a range of techniques for using linear perspective. Some descriptions are hard to follow without some background knowledge or supplemental material.
Although this book was a little dry, it is full of good information and tips for drawing perspective. The chapter summaries and drawing exercises are helpful.
Probbaly the best book on perspective, packaged in a concise and entertaining format. A good book to keep close when drawing.
Great intro to perspective, less mechanical. Great book before Scott Robertson
[image error]Really good.
Great book for beginner who want to try study perspective.
Really clear, simple explanations, with easy to follow diagrams. Recommended for artists.
Even though the introduction to the subject is a little bit too long and redundant, despite the will to introduce the user to the lexicon and frame of mind, the book is incredibly good.
A single illustration can drive you in the right way and this is what I wanted.
Honestly, I've scanned some pages and pinned them on my wall while exercising - yes, they are that good.For the price, it's utterly good and I recommend it.
Great reference book on perspective - easy to understand explanations with plenty of illustrations. Not surprised how complex perspective can be. This is one definitive go-to book on the subject that will be revisited again and again.
It was pretty much your average introduction to perspective; not horrible, not wonderful, a little dated in presentation. For a beginner I would recommend Dubosque's "Draw 3-D" or the more helpful "Perspective Without Pain" instead.
Good for artists
very useful for people that don't have a clue about perspective
Recommended for a complete beginner. Although later chapters need more time, most of the books can be easily approached by everyone.
like
wow! must read for artists
When I first picked this book up at the library, I thought it was going to be really basic. I was surprised how complex it actually is.
A really simple book to read and really informative. It really does break down perspective into easy steps and all it takes is an evening to read it.
A well written, easy to read book that is essential for any artist.
A superb little handbook that presents perspective drawing with sleek common sense and the wonderful conversational style typical of a manual from the era.
This was a great read into Perspective drawing. It was a bit of a refresher of what I had learned in high school art classes.
Written for a novice artist, just what I was looking for in a book.
