https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22609522-red-notice
In Red Notice, Bill Browder recounts his involvement in the world of high finance in Russia, events which ultimately led to the arrest, torture and death of one of his lawyers, and which transformed Browder from manager of a multi billion dollar investment fund to a human rights activist.
Ultimately, this success and bullishness led to his expulsion from Russia and to the torture and death of his lawyer who refused to provide false evidence against Browder and his fund.
A note on the audio: The narrator's voice is engaged and easy to listen to, but it does come across as arrogant which may explain some of my reservation about the book.
Not happy with his home life he made the decision to become a capitalist knowing that it would surely upset his parents.
However, something changed quite dramatically that would forever transform his life.
Author, Bill Browder pulls no punches in this true story of his rise as a prominent investor in a country that essentially does what it wants with no repercussions whatsoever.
Red Notice is powerful, and undeniably a riveting story.
Mr. Browder possesses a high sense of integrity with a great deal of compassion, and is very brave to try and make his story heard around the world.
Now this is an  explosive, revealing and  shocking read that had my complete attention from page one. Bill Browder's account reads like a thriller but its non fiction and is compelling reading for anyone interested in reading about High Finance, Murder and one man's fight for justice in modern Russia. image:   November 2009 an emancipated young lawyer, Sergei Magnitsky, is led to a freezing isolation cell in a Moscow prison, handcuffed to a bedrail and beaten to death by eight police officers. H
Bill Browder's account reads like a thriller but its non fiction and is compelling reading for anyone interested in reading about High Finance, Murder and one man's fight for justice in modern Russia.
The account of Sergei Magnitsky's life and death is heartbreaking and Bill Browder's fight for justice for a man who wanted to right the wrongs and make his country a better place to live is honourable and commendable.
image: A 5 star rating from me as I just couldnt stop thinking about this book on completion and I have since spent quite a bit of time watching documentaries relating to facts and situations mentioned in this book.
An interesting and entertaining read. Only marred by the self righteous tone of an author. Browder can't see beyond his own perspective. After cleaning out Russia by purchasing underpriced stock and turning it around for a quick profit. Once he achieved his millions he suddenly found a conscience. My sympathy lies with the Russian activists and people who've been wronged by both the oligarchs and the western businessman.
An excellent true account of the author's ups and downs as an investor in Putin's Russia. Along the way, he encounters brazen acts of embezzlement, theft and even murder by this lawless kleptocracy, losing his friend and lawyer Sergei Magnitsky to the agents of the 'rogue' state. A well-written gripping account; I could not put it down!
This stunningly good book is authored by a world-class trader who, when he loses a friend to imprisonment, torture, and death from Putin's regime, goes all-out--slowly, deliberately--to avenge his friend.
The trader is Bill Browder, the friend is Sergei Magnitsky, and the story is a true one.
This makes the book more compelling than even the best fictional thriller.
Putin's lack of conscience is no act, yet Browder describes a president and a now-secretary of state who naively want to pursue a reset with this coldest of killers.The only thing, and it is the most minor of points, is that Browder calculates Gazprom's natural gas value on a basis equivalent to oil, which it is not.Red Notice is a story of brave men and women acting honorably in a shifting, lawless country.
This meant that the early privatizers valued the entire Russian economy to be only $10 billion!He had made a bundle off of privatization in Poland, which was already on the up-and-up, but Russia was a more difficult point of entry.
While financially successful, Browder faced multiple challenges, including dealings with corrupt oligarchs, and then losing much of his fund's value in the 1998 default.
Browder is more right to speculate this was a major moment in the shifting of the balance of power between oligarchs and Putin - far from being a Communist ideologue, Putin demanded instead a large cut of their business as protection money.
I was vaguely aware of this story as it related to Putin and his ban of U.S. adoptions of Russian orphans back in 2012 but never really knew the details.The title does a very good job of breaking down the arc of the book with the first section concentrating on Browder, his schooling and how he ended up in Russia.
Then the story starts to turn as Browder and his employees discover and expose massive instances of fraud and corruption not only with the oligarchs but also in the Russian government.
Browder himself is kicked out of the country and harassment of his employees still in Russia continues.
These included him getting immensely tangled in the often corrupt jungle that is the Russian business world, taking on some of the oligarchs, and some of the major companies on the Russian scene, like Gazprom.
At first Putin welcomed his interventions, but after a while he didn't...and then things got very nasty.I skim read the latter half of the book, which was more focused on the trumped up legal wrangles concerning his Russian company, and the prosecution, torture and death of his lawyer.
This book was a complete surprise to me.
Fortunately, my fears proved unfounded; the book was very approachable and entertaining.
There are two parts to the author's story, both of which are equally involving but in different ways.
The first 150 pp or so outline how Browder developed his business in Russia and he details his stunning wins and losses in a disarmingly honest and humble way.
The second part of the book is much darker as he finds himself on the wrong side of some very powerful men - with truly heartbreaking results.
His quest for retribution is equally engrossing.
This book tells the story of how Magnitsky’s oppressors became international pariahs, had their U.S.-based assets frozen and visas revoked or refused, a result of The Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act passed in the United States in December 2012.Browder’s Hermitage Capital Management hedge fund still operates, though after his expulsion from Russia Browder was obliged to expand his investment purview, opening Hermitage Global which focused on emerging markets.
Here is a fable that he offers to illustrate the Russian mindset that he says he had to confront in his years running an investment fund in Russia and based on privatization of Russia’s industries.
Without skipping a beat, the villager says, ‘In that case, please poke one of my eyes out.’”Browder says, “Russians will gladly --- gleefully, even --- sacrifice their own success to screw their neighbor.” Browder was based there from the Yeltsin revolution through the early days of Putin’s regime.
But he puts his finger on something that resonates with what we are seeing in Russia with trade and Putin’s foreign policy right now.
I found the story in the last half of the book compelling and heartbreaking, and I wanted to go deeper into the lives and backgrounds of the other characters beyond Browder - Magnitsky's family, Vadim, Vladimir, Senator Cardin, the Russian officials, other Russian activists, etc.
My biggest issue in the novel was Browder's voice.
I'm glad that I read this book and learned more about the unhinged corruption among Russia's oligarchs and government officials, but "Red Notice" is a long slog to get to the meat of this subject.
Unsuprisingly, he starts to make some very unpleasant enemies, and, after having managed to siphon his fund's money out of Russia unnoticed, he then moves his key Russian staff, also at risk, out of the country, to London.Sadly, the one person he couldn't persuade to leave is one of his lawyers, Sergei Magnitsky - a man in his late 30s, who Browder points out pretty astutely, is not as old as his colleagues, and therefore doesn't have the same memory of how cruel the state can be in Russia - who believes he has done nothing wrong, and therefore has no need to flee.Depressingly, he pays the price, and finds himself imprisoned for no good reason, kept in increasingly horrific conditions, and denied medical treatment for some horrible conditions he has picked up whilst in prison.
After graduating with an MBA from Stanford, he began working for several different investment companies.
He then founded his own investment company which was astoundingly successful.
It’s a dire warning about the true workings of the Russian government, and Westerners should not be fooled by the false propaganda emanating from this authoritarian regime.Bill Browder’s crusade to stop the human rights abuses that are still being carried out in Russia is courageous and admirable.
A friend recommended this bestselling book to me, and after seeing Mr. Browder on PBS, I was drawn to his story.
For the first 40% I wanted to DNF it at every half an hour; and that’s only because I didn’t like Bill too much and I didn’t care for the writing style .What kept me going were the always interesting insides into the trading world.
But then the sh!t hit the fan and amazing things started to happen.I cried for minutes while reading The Red Notice( I hardly cry while reading, it’s more likely to cry watching a movie) and I gained a deep respect for Bill.
I would recommend it to anyone who wants to understand the world around them a little better ,and those who are a fan of political thrillers.
For years, and years of travel, inquiry, investing, association for knowledge.He tells his true life experiences from the personal to the business, in immense detail.
Within a Russian culture that is described to the most ingenuous and truthful fall-outs from history.
Because I know many Lithuanian and Russian, now American or becoming American citizens, I have heard this tale from the "other end" of the economic spectrum so many times- that this is not such a surprise to me as it seems to be for some other reviewers.
A true story that we rarely, rarely hear.
Whether or not you're business savvy - or globally astute, a non-fiction enthusiast, culturally aware, or a political aficionado - is rather a moot point; if you believe in impartial justice, integrity, and human rights - for all - this book is a must read.
Not just vendettas against select individuals or groups from other nations or cultures, but against their own hardworking, family-oriented people!
A famous expression of Stalin's [still] drives right to the point: 'If there is no man, there is no problem.'"My heart goes out to Sergei Magnitsky's family, as well as all the countless victims who have been brutally and permanently silenced; their innocent blood shed because they dared to stand for honor, integrity, justice, and their faith.
3 stars - It was good.A fascinating story that starts off as a tale of financial corruption and ends with a cry for human rights.
You are left questioning the illusion that Russia is becoming a progressive and democratic nation.
There were editing issues (missing or extra words) and you can tell the author didn't major in literature, but it made for an intriguing and informative read.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: For the average Muscovite, a single act of Good Samaritan-ship could lead to a seven-year prison sentence.
This was the story of Russia.First Sentence: I'm a numbers guy, so I'll start with some important ones: 260; 1; and 4,500,000,000.
Russian corruption from a financial and personal viewThere is a great story in here. Clearly, Mr. Browder has encountered the financial highs and corruption lows of Russia as the country emerged from communism to the capitalist dream of privatization and dropped into the abyss of a totalitarian oligarchy. As gifted as Mr. Browser is as a humanitarian and financier, it's nearly impossible to write an enjoyable autobiography. It's too personal and too biased. I kept imagining how Michael Lewis or Bethany McLean would have turned the story into a great book.
The content is important, since not all might be aware of what a lawless country Russia truly is. However, the author failed to engage me and I spent most of the book wishing it was over. The core message: don't do business in Russia and don't oppose the state or it will end badly for you. Putin's enemies end up dead in "accidents".
Bill Browder’s Red Notice: A True Story of High Finance, Murder, and One Man’s Fight for Justice is one of the best books I’ve read this year.
It then shifted into an incredibly complex story of intrigue, corruption, lawlessness, injustice, and murder all at the hands of the Russian political system.I know that was a mouthful, but if you want a little taste, just read the Wikipedia page for Sergei Magnitsky which is central to the second half of the book, where Browder shifts from successful financier to international human rights activist.
Moved to https://covers2covers.wordpress.com/2...
I loved it, even though I'm not great at understanding financial concepts (the stock market is a totally foreign place to me), but Browder does a good job of explaining things in layman's terms.
It makes me want to read everything I can get my hands on about Putin and the corruption in his government and Russian oligarchs.
While I was reading this, a term from the Mormon lexicon kept coming to mind: "Gadianton robbers," which is what these evil men are.
It makes me so grateful to live in America.
And it makes me grateful for very, very brave men like Sergei Magnitsky and Bill Browder.
The Blog that keeps on givingDescription: A real-life political thriller about an American financier in the Wild East of Russia, the murder of his principled young tax attorney, and his dangerous mission to expose the Kremlin's corruption.Bill Browder's journey started on the South Side of Chicago and moved through Stanford Business School to the dog-eat-dog world of hedge fund investing in the 1990s.
A financial caper, a crime thriller, and a political crusade, Red Notice is the story of one man taking on overpowering odds to change the world.Robert Maxwell, right, with Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev in the Kremlin.
Red Notice is a memoir, engrossing tale, ugly truth of Putin regime, fight against justice, corruption, system, politics,Quite insightful about Russia.
The the second half of the book is quite interesting which exposes the total corruption that exists in Russia, going right up to Vladimir Putin himself.How Bill Browder was blacklisted by the Russian government, denied entry in to the country where his business was.
His fight to not only get his investors out of Russia but also the people that worked for him, raids by the FSB, illegal transfer of companies through corruption and bribery at the highest levels in the Russian Government and leading to the brutal torturous tale and murder of Sergei Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer that worked for Hermitage Capital and who loved his country but refused to lie.
True story of the first investor in grossly undervalued Russian companies, who makes enormous returns for himself and his partners, but antagonized Russian oligarchs without much thought about the risks to himself, his family, his employees and agents. Then, the unthinkable happens, and Bill Browder has a new mission: justice and retribution. Non-fiction that seems too incredible to be true.
This is Russia today."The story behind Red Notice involving author Bill Browder, the Magnitsky Act, and Russian white collar crime may be the greatest contemporary human rights act to grace our presence.
Browder's crusade is important as the Magnitsky Act passed by the United States government is a phenomenally historical and influential piece of legislation that is driving the current political dialogue between the West and Russia.
This is a great story about Bill Browder's life and how he came to form his company Hermitage Capital Management, whose business was to invest primarily in Russia, for for some of the most wealthy people in the world.
Browder began "fighting corruption" for just himself and his investors, not one bit for the benefit of the Russian people.
For those who don't want to read the whole book, here is the first youtube video he used to draw attention to the problem.
“Red Notice” is author Bill Browder’s engrossing memoir about his amazing career as an investor in Russia.
Through career frustration, Browder decides to make a go of it on his own.Learning about Russia business practices (of which there are few) and the political strong-hold on businesses was the favorite part of the novel.
If you are on the fence or question Putin’s policies, this illuminating novel will make you thank your lucky stars you live in the country you do.While investing in Russian companies, Browder exposed corruptions which left him and his staff in a political hot seat.
