https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/611240.Village_School
As an avid and unashamed anglophile, I loved this book -- it's a gentle, enjoyable read where you follow the happenings in a little village in England: jumble sales, doctors who make house calls, thatched roof cottages, walks along country lanes, a 2-room schoolhouse, fireside visits with neighbors over tea, etc. with I've been reading and re-reading the series for about 10 years now.
Thinking that the Fairacre novels would be more of the same, I turned to Village School.Was I wrong!
Yes, the story concerns a Cotswold village, as in Thrush Green.
The world of Fairacre is more realistic, with misbehaving children, out-of-wedlock births, alcoholic schoolmasters, the occasional abusive parent, and a schoolmistress who is human enough to lose patience and lose track of a 5-year-old while on a field trip.I turned to Fairacre because I had already devoured all 12 Thrush Green books; I was seeking consolation.
However, if Village School is any indication, I shall come to prefer it even to my own beloved Thrush Green.
I have read Miss Read books for many years now. I still read them regularly and get the same thrill of reading of village and school as they used to be. Her books are always by my bedside and I can always pick one of them up and get transported back into a forgotten age. Magnificent.
I love reading these books about how school life was back in the 1950's and how everyone knew everyone
These books by Miss Read are my nostalgia fix and sometimes give me a lump in my throat.The setting is the village school in Fairacre, the story is told by the head mistress Miss Read and they are a perfect picture of school life in a rural English village during the fifties and before.
The windows in the school are set high in the thick stone walls (to avoid distraction), playtime in the school yard under the trees and overlooking the row of cottages is a much loved time.

Miss Read's books are gentle, easy reads with perceptive and amusing insights into human nature. Set in small English villages, both the Fair Acre and Thrush Green series have the same hometown feel of Jan Karon's Mitford series. These books are delightful to read whenever you need a break from the hectic pace of life and the people who are making demands on your time.
There was a time when my mother's Mitford books infuriated me because they seemed so trite and I felt like they stood for everything I hated.
Now I'm all Martha Stewart-ed and stuff, and I crave all things domestic.
How things change...
Anyway, nothing really happens at all in these books (they are the epitome of gentle fiction), but they have little vignettes of village life throughout the seasons.
Now I have to let my mom in on these because she'll totally love them and I'll have to apologize for all the times I hid her Mitford books...
Thank you, LA Times Obituaries for introducing me to Miss Read,* although I am very sorry that she has passed on (at age 98).
Nothing much happens - yet so much happens in the day to day life of the villagers of Fairacre.
I could not put this book down and finished it in one day (in my jammies all day!) Lovely little illustrations (black and white drawings) in the 1950 edition that I read.
It is still in print, believe it or not, and your local library may very well have Miss Read's books.
"Village School" is the 1st in the Fairacre series.
And thank you to the Oviatt Library for having this book!
My mom introduced me to the Miss Read books a few years ago. Her books are a great way to escape to a quiet, gentle, humorous world. A cup of tea goes quite well with this book!
I read about this series after it was recommended on a Facebook group.
They sounded just the kind of stories I would enjoy so I started at the beginning and it did not disappoint.Set in the 1950's the tale is set in a small rural village school and told by the headmistress Miss Read.
I really enjoyed Miss Read's observations, simplistic writing style and humour which really brought the characters and story alive, you could easily imagine it all happening.A very enjoyable glimpse in to how things were and a great World to escape in to for a while.
I have just listened to this audiobook a second time round because I love it so much. It is relaxing, well written and funny, reminding me of my own primary school years, in another place and era. I think what I like best are the cheeky childrens' dialogues and Miss Read's dry humour. There is NO plot, just a series of events and a quaint, nostalgic, charming, peaceful depiction of a small village school.
It's like a mini-vacation to just sit down and listen to her woes, her thrills, her triumphs in life as a schoolmistress (though little triumphs it feels like to her, I'm sure).This particular novel, the very first of the Fairacre lot, takes us on a journey of a normal year in Miss Read's classroom, and her interactions with the other townspeople during the year.She's such a talented writer, I must say.
The narrator of the story, Miss Read, leads with a charming voice – ever so sweetly pointing out the ironies of village life and the fun bits of happiness in her days, usually with some highlights of comedic episodes.
Dora Saint wrote under the pseudonym Miss Read.
I was interested enough in the book that I wanted to find out a little more about this author.
Finding out more information about her was interesting to me , especially since Miss Read is the main character and narrator of the story.
I loved the dry sense of humor of Miss Read and the other fun and quirky characters.
I loved Miss Clare and Joseph Coggs.
Would love to read more books by this author.
Somewhere along the way I was charmed by the characters and village life.
I have set myself a summer project of re-reading all of the Fairacre series by Miss Read.
They illustrate the life of rural English village on the Downs, and especially of Miss Read, the narrator and school teacher who tells us about the world of Fairacre.
The stories really resounds for me and Miss Read makes me appreciate certain parts of my life (being a teacher, being single....I'd like to be the sort of schoolmarm that Miss Read revels in being!).The narrator is both sentimental and wickedly funny with an appreciation for her world made greater as the series unfolds.
I am enjoying this series, set in an English village in the 1950s. The author skillfully goes back and forth between a first-person narrative (by the town's schoolmistress) and a third-person view of village happenings, something I've never seen done well before. The narrator is witty and observant. This is tame, cozy, calm stuff--just what you may need to balance more intense reading or happenings in your life. The details of village life are well described and the author gives a heartwarming view into a way of life that is no longer extant but had much to recommend it.
This series and the other series by this author, Thrush Green, consist of gentle stories about village life.
I like stories of daily life without the high splash of dramatically plotted books.
In these books habits of patience, honesty, humility, and humor lie at the heart of a healthy community, but they are not accomplished without effort, and no community escapes periods of discord and pain.
Cozy, delightful, just perfect for this cold snowy Saturday! I wanted to jump inside this book and live! Thank you so much, Linda!
I thought this was a charming read. I want to sit and have tea with Miss Read. Looking forward to reading more in the series.
Miss Read is a schoolteacher in a sleepy little English village.
This story takes us through a school year in the village of Fairacre as seen through the eyes of Miss Read.
It's a pleasant, homey, sort of read.
There's no central plot, just a chapter or two of narrative at a time so you can pick it up and put it down at leisure.
At times I found myself very interested in what was happening and wanted to know what would happen next but then nothing did happen.
Other times I wasn't too interested.
This tells the story of one school year in the life of Miss Read and her students, their families, the other teachers and the community.
However, the children are very happy and Miss Read seems to take a great deal of pleasure in her job.
A very pleasant read.I read Miss Read's Thrush Green Series before this one and was afraid I wouldn't take to Fairacre like I had the community of Thrush Green, but I needn't have worried.
Unlike the Thrush Green series, this is written partially in the first person.Like others of her writings, this is not a book filled with suspense and intense emotional upheavals.
A great book, and not as twee as some reviewers make out.
I love Miss Read's 'down-to earth' style - not strict and no-nonsense but the reader is privy to her thoughts.
I first read this when I was 13 and it made a big impression on me, feeding my love of the country and the old-fashioned.
I actually don't think this way of life has passed entirely - I do see some similarities with now.
Obviously there are differences but many people still live a similar pattern of life.
A lovely book if you also appreciate nature.
The Chronicles of Fairacre take the reader back to a better, gentler, simpler, and in many ways wiser, time and place.
The setting is the small Cotswolds village of Fairacre, the time is the 1950's.
Miss Read is the village schoolmistress, and an acute and loving observer of the villagers, the schoolchildren, human nature, and God's nature.
Village School is the first book in the series.The series is at least partly biographical.
Miss Read was the pen name for Dora Jesse Saint, who died in 2012 at the age of 98.
Miss Read's books influenced Jan Karon's Mitford series, and are very reminiscent of that later series.
I love Miss Read books - they evoke so many memories of living in England (although they took place before my first visit in 1978).
Reading these books is a respite from the constant buzzing of reminders on my phone, the emails piling up in the inbox and the pace of life which seems, at times, ready to tear us apart.
I love a good cozy - and books set in England are always enjoyed - so Miss Reads tales of Fairacre and Thrush Green are often revisited - they provide a soothing journey to visit old friends and familiar places.
As someone who has read and enjoyed all of Barbara Pym's novels, I thought this story of a schoolteacher in a small village would be of a similar vein. It is in that it depicts a slice of every day life without much drama. However, like Pym's protagonists, the narrator 'Miss Read' has a sly wit about her that kept the novel from being trite. I also enjoy social history and the little details about clothing, furnishings, and customs of a village in late 1950s England were fun to read.
Charming, low-key, well-written. Village School reminded me of Anne of Green Gables without the strength of a central character you love. There's not much of a plot driving this forward, but the characters are a joy to spend an afternoon with, and Miss Read's humor is gentle and wonderful. What it's not? saccharine.
what did I learn from Miss Read? The importance of the trivial. That a teacher should always have some little games to play to fill in an odd hour (you'd be surprised how they still love 7-up and odds and evens.) That you should not wind the vacuum cleaner cord in a figure of eight. That familiarity breeds fondness.
Love all of "Miss Read's" books. I discovered Miss Read in 1991 when I was pregnant with my son Nick. What a pleasure to curl up on the couch and get away to the village of Fairacre. I might be American, but Miss Read always make me want to put on a pot of tea.
Such an enjoyable read! My review is posted on my blog at:https://afondnessforreading.wordpress...
This is so much better than I had remembered.As Wikipedia says:"From 1955 to 1996 Miss Read wrote a series of novels centred on two fictional villages, Fairacre and Thrush Green.
Saint was also a keen observer of nature and the changing seasons.One of the writers who influenced her was Jane Austen; and her work also bears some similarities to the social comedies of manners written in the 1920s and 1930s, and to the work of Barbara Pym. Miss Read's work has in turn influenced a number of writers, including American writer Jan Karon."As for the plot of this first novel in the beloved Fairacre series, Village School introduces the remarkable schoolmistress Miss Read and her lovable group of children, who, with a mixture of skinned knees and smiles, are just as likely to lose themselves as their mittens.
