https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411858.Dangerous_Kiss
Finally found more Lucky Santangelo books. This one is full of drama and action, just like the rest of the books. I really enjoy this series.
Good series! intriguing storyline that's filled with humor,death,sex and good writing (paperback!)
The carjacking sucked and poor Steven.
The two teens that did the carjacking, their story could have been a bit shorter.And little Leonardo an Claudia.
When Lennie was held captive they eluded but never actually said they had sex.
Who knows with the whole being held captive situation.
He really should have just told Lucky.
And what about Lucky?
She should have told Lennie.
She really believed he was dead after all.Poor Brigette, she needs to trust her gut, when she doesn't she gets in trouble.
I really think she needs to go live near Lucky and not leave.Did Venus and Cooper end?
This gets 2 stars because it's fluffy trash but on the whole I'm loving this series and plan to read the rest of it soon. Great fun with over the top plot and characters.
Her books are always jam packed with drama, intrigue, romance and devastating consequences and this one is no exception.The Lucky Santangelo series is truly Jackie's greatest masterpieces.
The books follow the life of the Santangelo's, Lucky and Gino being the key characters.
She's strong, confident and has balls of steel.As with all the Lucky Santangelo novels, I loved this just the same.
These books are easy to read and although many characters live in those pages, the story line is easy to follow.
This is what Jackie does best, she keeps the ball rolling, each character having there own story line to intertwine at the end, in an explosive ending.
This book made me hate LuckyStart to finish she was nothing but a hypocritical bitch. She gave Lennie so much shit and meanwhile her dirt wasn't spilled and she still kept Alex close! Bullshit. Lennie and Bridgette are just cursed. Unbelievably bad luck at every turn.Steven moved on a bit too quick for my taste and with of all people Lina who was just a bore to me, as was the Prince/Irene/Duke shit.Poor Claudia though. She went out a hero kinda, with no Thxs by Lucky.Btw where the fuck did Nona vanish off to? And Costa?
Jackie Collins' recent death made me realize I had not read one of her Lucky Santangelo's books in quite some time so I decided to reacquaint myself with the character and her family.
After starting Dangerous Kiss, it dawned on me I skipped a book and will go back and read Vendetta:Lucky's Revenge.
Anyway, I digress.It was great to see Lucky again but the book was too drawn out.
The back story on some of the characters was tedious which made the book longer than necessary.
Ms Collins fluffed the book a little too much.
I do plan to complete the series.
Awesome read!!!I loved this book. Several years ago I read her book LUCKY and this book is a continuation of the characters. I am not a fast reader but could not put it down and read it until I couldn't hold my eyes open. Her description of the characters and their lives made me feel as if I was there in person. Jackie Collins is an excellent author!
I would have liked to rated this higher, but Ms. Collins took on too many characters (including weak and naive) along with bad situations to do this 5th Lucky story justice. Just when the ending begins to make this story better, it fizzles instead. 4 of 10 stars
This book was so damn good. I wish it never ended. I don't know how Jackie thought of all this stuff but wow, what an imagination. LOVEEEE iTTTT!!! mUST READ!
This is one that I have never heard of...must read.
Love the Lucky books!!!
One more timeAnd so it continues. Everything is setting up for the end of this series, which unfortunately I have already read. Things are making sense now.
A good novel about the strength of women... betrayal... and revenge in the world of lucky... the justice of Santangelo
The book starts out slow in the first 50 pages as the reader gets all the back stories of the the characters involved. Once through that, the story takes off and it becomes quite the page turner.
Amazing, the best in the Lucky Santangelo series. I liked it very much.
Still enjoying the series but wondering when Lucky will start to age ???
Love All her books !
Jackie Collins writes a captivating who done it romance society novel. always a fun read.
As always another entertaining read!
This is absolute, amateurish dreck and I hate myself for having read (or frankly, skimmed) so much of this embarrassment.
But no, the whole thing reads like a 12 year wrote it in their journal--a 12 year old without the slightest idea of how adults really talk, act, or feel.
How anyone can read this and not think it's the most awful things that's ever been put on paper.
I feel worse for having read it.
The language is also simple and I must say you don’t need brains to understand this book.
I like books that pick your brain and characters that leave an impression.
I found nothing special about the characters in this book and they surely didn’t leave any impression.
I also felt like the book ended abruptly with a happy ending.
It felt like perhaps the author, was in a hurry to finish the book and trying too hard to show how bold the lead character Lucky was.
This was my first Collins book and will be my last.
I enjoyed "Lucky" and the books seemed to go downhill from there.
It seems that Collins needs to make up some kind of excuse for Lucky and Lennie to be fighting.
As I've said before, the plot with Lennie and Claudia was ridiculous.
I know everyone is supposed to be rooting for Lucky, but she pissed me off with the way she treated Lennie after she found out about Claudia.
And I was mad as hell that Lennie never found out about it.
And Steven falling in love so quickly with that tramp/model Lina was too much for me, too.
Steven deserved better.
Not the best of the series, but I have more to read.
With the Santangelos, I think one thing that hurts is the gradual fadeout of compelling characters like Gino, Sr. in favor of new entries.
Lucky remains a force in the story, and obviously a favorite of the author as she doesn't suffer as much as everybody else in this book.
Carlo and Duke are horrible people, reminiscent of horrible men in the last two books.
I'll read more in the series with that hope.
I'm curious, too, to see who makes it to book 6.
....I had second thoughts in reading this book, coz sentiment and family fictions are not my cup of tea, and that too this book contained 500 plus pages, but once started, I took this book where ever I went, from dining table to toilet.
All characters..from heroine Lucky,to Stephen, Price washington, Mila, Ted, Carol are memorable.
My fav., characters in this book is undoubtedly Lucky and Mila...Lucky being...a stubborn, gentle and kind one, and Mila a spoilt teen ..!!!
After reading this fiction, I am eagerly waiting to get this author's next book..!!!

Migliore del precedente, anche se non ai livelli dei primi volumi. Finalmente la Collins riprende in mano sottotrame lasciate in sospeso molto tempo fa (su tutte la relazione all'epoca ambigua tra Lucky e Steven, ma in parte anche l'intermezzo apparentemente inutile tra Lennie e Claudia in 'Vendetta'); tuttavia anche stavolta non sempre le risoluzioni finali sanno di "compiuto", non del tutto. Quattro stelle per la cura verso i dettagli e le storie individuali che qui ritorna in tutto il suo peso.

As always, Collins is speaking about the Hollywood life from every character's point of you. This way gives you a very good understanding to how everyone feels in the story. Lucky and Lennie had a problem in their marriage which at the end they get through it. Bridget, had a miscarriage from a cont from Italy who is as all her lovers a stupid man who don't deserve love. It is a very nice book. I loved it and I love all Jackie Collins books indeed.
another fab book inthe lucky Santangelo series. I loved it, its now the 2nd of Jackie Collins novels I've read with lucky Santangelo as the main character, i now want to read the early ones, have managed to get hold of 'Lucky' (2nd in series), but 'Chances' (1st one) appears to be out of print as its going for much more than normal cover price.If you enjoy Jackie Collins books, you'll love 'Dangerous Kiss'!!
