https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64582.Chaos
Instead he focusses on giving a poetic account of the scientists who first stumbled on it -- and their great surprise and their struggles form the narrative crux of the book.While some may say this makes it a less informative book, for me this made it one of the most intriguing non-fiction books I have read.
And this ultimately was the real achievement of Gleick in writing Chaos - He manages to convey to us that this is the first foray of science into the realm of art - not just of explaining art but of being art.
في عام 1961 كان إدوارد لورنز عالم الأرصاد ذو الخلفية الفيزيائية يقوم بنموذج محاكاة لحالة الطقس وذلك بإدخال معطيات أولية لكمبيوتر بدائي، ليقوم الجهاز بإخراج رسوم بيانية تساعد على التنبؤ بحالة الطقس، في هذه المرة كان يعيد إدخال المعطيات الأولية لمرة ثانية، بعد فترة من عمل الجهاز عاد لورنز ليجد مفاجأة مدهشة، فعلى الرغم من أنه قام بإدخال المعطيات نفسها إلا أن الرسوم البيانية جاءت مختلفة عن ذي قبل، ظن لورنز أن هناك خطأ بالجهاز ولكنه فطن فيما بعد إلى أنه قام بإدخال أرقام تقريبية عن المرة الأولى ظناً منه أن الفرق الهين، ومقداره كسر من الألف، لن يصنع فارقاً.قرر لورنز إعادة التجربة مع نمطين متقاربين من الطقس (لا يختلفان سوى في فروق طفيفة في الأوضاع الأولية) فكانت هذه هي النتيجة ========في البداية كانا متطابقين، ثم ظهر فرق بسيط.
This burn of the natural world, this magic of the unknown, is what draws me to read physics and philosophy as an absolute amature.
There are pieces and fractures in these books that actually DON'T escape me.
He floats too far above the actual science and complexity.
He shows you pictures and dances around the pools of chaos and clouds of complexity, but never actually puts the reader INTO the churning water or shoots the reader into energized, cumuliform heaps.
This is a book that is more about translating the story of the science (not the science) for NOT the layman, but really the lazy layman.
A series of extremely interesting and well-written biographies and anecdotes which don't really explain directly what chaos theory really is.
No equations and lots of graphs, but that's just to make sure the general public isn't scared away.Still, Gleick conveys the 'appeal' of chaos theory, or at least what people think it is about.
In a complex system, the most minuscule change in initial conditions leads to drastic or unpredictable changes in the output.
It is important not just in physics or mathematics, but astronomy, climatology, biology, even economics.
Even if we can find a mathematical model behind the behavior of these complex systems, we cannot necessarily predict them.
This book gives a wonderful explanation of the Butterfly Effect - one of those ideas in science that everyone thinks they know and understands, but that generally people have upside down and back to front.I really do like popular science books, particularly if they are well written, relatively easy to follow and don't leave me feeling like I've been looking over an abyss for hours.
Gleick never makes you feel this and takes you through some very difficult concepts with care and assurance.
A wonderful guide through what would ordinarily be a very difficult and frightening landscape.
Much of what the first generation of chaos scientists did is incredibly easy to demonstrate with a laptop computer today--but most of these chaos pioneers were working with handheld calculators, mainframe computers with dump terminals and limited and unreliable access for something so peripheral to the institution's perceived mission, computers whose only output device was a plotter.Gleick very effectively conveys the science, the excitement the early scientists working on it felt, and the challenges that faced them.Highly recommended.
For instance, the discussion of fractals will show you that there can be infinite space within a finite area.
So, while you know when you reach into a box of chocolates that you're going to get chocolate, you still have no idea exactly what you're going to get: There is infinite "space" for possibilities within the finite categorical "area" of chocolates, not to mention the finite volume of the box.Like Gleick's more recent book, The Information,  Chaos  offers as much insight into how scientific theories develop as insight into the theories themselves.
Tu som sa prvý raz dozvedela o fraktáloch. Čítala som niekedy v období 1996-2000 a táto kniha šla v našej gympláckej partii a aj medzi spolužiakmi na matfyze z ruky do ruky. Podobne na tom bol Sobecký gen od Dawkinsa. Dve knihy, ktoré nám zamávali svetonázorom. Tá správna YA literatúra v rokoch 1990-tych :)Obe si pamätám už len matne, takže jasní kandidáti na rereading.Teraz (2018) som objavila ako odporúčanie ku kurzu behaviorálnej biológie:1. Introduction to Human Behavioral Biology (video prednáška zo Stanfordu)
( نظرية الكايوس أو الشواش)-تعد أحد أهم الثورات العلمية في القرن العشرين والعلم الحديث.اذ تعتبر ثالث أهم نظرية بعد النسبية لآينشتاين والنظرية الكمومية( ميكانيكا الكم). اشتهرت النظرية باسم «أثر جناح الفراشة» الذي راج أولاً في أوساط خبراء الطقس- و تقول أن رفة جناح فراشة فوق بيجينغ تستطيع أن تغير نظام العواصف فوق نيويورك. وحسب المؤلف تعود أصول هذه النظرية لأعمال فكرية عدة في تاريخ العلم والثقافة . غيرت النظرية الكثير في الأسس الفكرية والمنهجية التقليدية المتبعة، فهي تدحض مزاعم الحتمية والمحكم في الع
غيرت النظرية الكثير في الأسس الفكرية والمنهجية التقليدية المتبعة، فهي تدحض مزاعم الحتمية والمحكم في العلم.‏فكان لها أثر كبير في تطور الفيزياء النظرية، وكذا الرياضيات كما أثرت وألهمت الأدب.تحاول هذه النظرية الوصول إلى المسارات الخفية من الشيء الظاهر( النظام الخفي ) وما تنطوي عليه من غموض، للتعرف على أسراره وآلياته في تشكيل النظام والثبات الظاهر للعيان لوضع قواعد وأسس لدراسته .
تقول هذه النظرية بأن جميع الأشياء من حولنا" الظواهر المعقدة في الحياة اليومية" بمافيها الإنسان تشكل" نوع من النظام من دون نسق دوري." بمعنى آخر؛ النظم الحية تتغير باستمرار.فإن ما يبدو بسيطاً للعين كمدرك ينطوي على تعقيد وتشويش واهتزاز في باطنه.‏إذاً نخلص من هذه النظرية بأن الواقع والحياة كنظام ديناميكي معقد ماهو إلا "توازن دقيق بين قوى الاستقرار والفوضى ."  نظرية الفوضى نظرية لكل العلوم.
This was an interesting read. As much about the history of chaos theory and the scientists who pioneered it as the science itself. Contains the obligatory Jurassic Park references (in case you were worried).
That being said, this felt like a good introduction to the early history of scientists' efforts to understand and explain nonlinear systems and the apparent chaotic behavior observed in natural and man-made systems.If you haven't studied science or mathematics beyond the basics taught in U.S. high schools, this book will be a challenge, but if you have an understanding of equations, geometry, and scientific research methods, you should be able to understand everything Gleick discusses here.I enjoyed this investigation of the order underlying what we perceive as disorder, especially fractals.
The greatest discoveries of the 20th Century physics include Relativity Theory, Quantum Theory and Chaos Theory. Of the three, the only one that we can see and play with is chaos. From the flight patterns of flocks of birds, to heart arrhythmia, to stock market fluctuation to the coast of Alaska, the underlying patterns can be revealed in this wonderful branch of science. There are newer books on the subject but none better for us lay people.
Sve je to vrlo interesantno, umešno napisano i razborito objašnjeno, ali je i dalje tek za lestvicu iznad laičkog poznavanja teme. Funkcioniše kao uvod i zanimljiva istorija, kao upoznavanje sa nelinearnom dinamikom, ali ne mnogo više od toga.4
Gosh, I was rather rude about this one, wasn't I? I'm moving the rating up a bit after my re-read (on audio) because it wasn't that bad, although I still think it's a bit overrated.-----------------------------------------------------------James Gleick's Chaos is possibly one of the most overrated books ever written. The first two pages are quite good, before rapidly declining to dullness and staying there. The content consists of a few badly written half-biographies, a few pretty pictures and vignettes of science, and no worthwhile mathematics whatsoever. The result is neither interesting nor informative.
I found it quite informative, especially in communicating what it would perhaps be like working in science at an exciting time. However there were many sections that bored me and aperiodic jumps in his focus that left me lost a bit. All in all I can say I have a better grasp of what chaos is all about... but on a bit of reflection... well, no, not really. A good history I guess, I'm now all fired up to read textbooks on this stuff (:
من البداية كان الكتاب جدا صعب علي في قراءته وفي فهم محتواه ..كنت اتجنب قراءته من الفنيه الى الاخرى لكنني اراني لا اراديا اتصفحه لفهم هذي النظريه..
كيف لحذوة حصان ان تسبب في خسارة امبروطوريه كامله ..بسبب مسمار فقد حذوة الحصاان وبسبب ذالك سقط الفارس من الحصان ..
وكتبوا بحثوا ولاحظوا تغيرات تم اجراءها على الكمبيوتر معروفه نتائجها لكن لم تأتي النتائج مثلما توقعوها ..وكيف لاقت الفوضى من استحقار العلماء وعدم دعمهم من البداية في هذه النظريه التي تطلب وتركز على االمعادلات اللاخطية !
والاطباء في ابحاثهم وعلومهم شتى..بل كيف ادى ذالك على دراسه اوقات الامراض والاصابه والعدوى بها ..
This book came out in the late 80s, and I've crossed paths with it several times without reading it.
I remember talking about it while eating dinner one day in the cafeteria with my physics teacher and some friends from class.
And my ex-husband had it on his shelf and I never got around to reading it.
Gleick is a fabulous writer.
Though a popular science book can only gloss a highly technical subject, Gleick does it well.
But I found this book even more engaging for the narrative tale of a moment in history -- a virtual paradigm shift in mathematical thought -- that happened in our lifetimes.
I finally read the book that ought to have been required reading for freshman physics majors for the past 20 years! The other day when the radio announcer reported the length of the Florida coastline, I found myself wondering what length measuring stick was used. It is interesting to contemplate how much of the themes of this book have migrated into the modern cultural consciousness. Then, you may wind up contemplating how much of that migration was due to Jeff Goldblum's ham-fisted illustrations in "Jurassic Park".
The kind of book that just blows your mind with how cool it all is, and why doesn't anyone teach science like THIS. Because of this book, and the many delights that have followed, I am a lover of popular science writing. And also, I've learned way more than I ever did in school.
كتاب رائع، رغم ان المترجم بذل مجهودا ضخما في الترجمة الا انها كانت صعبة الفهم في كثير من الاحيان واضطررت للرجوع لمصادر اخرى. تشككت كثيرا اثناء القراءة في كون هذه النظرية علما اصلا وليس مجرد خرافات ولكن اتضح انه علم قائم بالفعل ونحن في غيبة عنه.
Awesome predictability of unpredictability, namely sensitive dependence on initial conditions. Wonderful bifurcations and pretty things abound... it'll make you realise why we'll never understand everything.
This document is a basic book on chaos fractal theory.  I prefer both text and its Illustrated.
It turns out that math, which has hinted that it is the pathway to understanding (insert name or concept here) when used in nonlinear geometry, equations that iterate rather than resolve, that math is on the fruitful path because, “odd shapes carry meaning.” “Evolution is chaos with feedback.” - Joseph Ford, a quote Jimi Hendrix might have dug.
The last month has been quite interesting thanks to both Chaos and Sync. They overlap quite a lot, but now I know all the pioneers in this field! It has been quite an exciting ride over these few weeks discovering this phenomenon. Although I have read Mandelbrot previously, I did not enjoy that book as much. Somehow, I must have missed out on the nuances of that book. However, these two books are quite exciting! Basic primers. Love these kinds of books. Giving such beautiful accounts of the whole field in such an entertaining way!
Gleick introduces us to figures like Edward Lorenz, whose work in weather prediction revealed that tiny differences in input in even simple mathematical models could lead to vast differences in output over time; Robert May, who discovered chaotic patterns in population dynamics; and Benoit Mandelbrot, now considered the father of fractals.
Along the way, he touches on fundamental concepts like strange attractors, fractal dimension, bifurcation, complex boundaries, and the Mandlebrot set (whose astonishing visual representation you've seen if you’ve set foot in a poster shop in the last 25 years).This is one of those books I'd recommend to people who already have some familiarity with the topic.
كتاب يحتوي الكثير من المعلومات ، الدهشة ، والأسئلة !
The author spent too much time in repeating the same terminology and concepts like 'strange attractors' and 'sensitive dependence on initial conditions' and not enough time making it tangible by using real examples that would have made it more meaningful.
For instance, what does chaos theory/nonlinear science mean for weather forecasting, predicting asset class returns, crime statistics, economic growth, timing of natural disasters?
The author mentions these concepts but without going into lucid examples of what chaos theory implies for them.
The most interesting chapters were the final two, about the possible application to physiology and then a summary of the concept.
I enjoyed this quick read, though in the end I did not like CHAOS very much.
It is a breezy history of two decades of mostly disconnected work done by a number of different researchers in widely divergent areas of science.
In an apparent coincidence, a small number of unrelated people became interested in studying aperiodic, non-linear problems arising in various fields of science all at roughly the same time.
Their research had not advanced very far by the time this book was written in the mid-80s.
In any event, there is no reason to read it now.
Not because he gave bad information, but because chaos is a lot more difficult to prove in any particular case, especially outside of the physical sciences, which he does not reveal.
This could have been because back when it was written a lot of researchers assumed the applicability of chaos theory to any thing that smelled of it.
It takes experimental evidence to show that chaos theory fits the particular phenomenon under study.I did lift the Mandelbrot set equation from the book, and went on to developed a computer program which produce fractal art with it.
:(Gleick gives an unorganized overview some fun mathematical concepts like fractals, strange attractors, and chaos theory.But he exaggerates the importance of these topics, presenting them as a holistic revolution in physics, overthrowing reductionism, which just isn't the case.The last chapter was incomprehensible hippie mysticism, then the book just ended leaving me wondering what the whole point was.It seems to me like this book represents a time in history before people had gotten accustom to handling complexity and information theory in computers.
Having grown up with a computer, I found most points argued in this book painfully obvious common sense.
