https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158417.Love_is_Eternal
However, this book depicts an intelligent woman prevented from achieving her full potential by conventions of the time period and circumstances.
Though Lincoln would not allow her to make use of her political contacts, she could and did give input on Lincoln's ideas and speeches, in addition to providing a safe haven for him when he needed it.
I took my time finishing the book, though, because I knew how it would end for these two remarkable people.
This is a very readable novel detailing the lives of Mr. and Mrs.
“President” Lincoln told from the perspective of Mary Todd Lincoln.
It begins with her as a eligible young lady pursued by many in her hometown in Kentucky and continues as she travels to Springfield , Illinois where she stays with her married sister and family and where she meets Abraham.
It also details all of the family tragedy and the national crisis years during the Civil War. It is well done and very well researched for authenticity; however, it was published first in 1954 and does at times feel a bit dated.
Irving Stone is quickly becoming a favorite author.
Never a great fan of reading history just for the sake of reading it, Stone brings history to life by using the historical fiction genre and providing interesting dialogue.
I didn't know much about the Lincolns when I started reading this, other than what they teach in school.
It was indeed sad how Abraham Lincoln struggled with melancholy and depression, but I found it amazing how he recognized it and usually worked himself through it.
Despite her somewhat brusque and often misinterpreted manner, Mary Todd was a huge part of his victories while struggling herself with loss and tragedy.
Interessante Leben in das so gar nicht luxuriöses Leben von Abraham Lincoln und seiner Frau.
I found this book extremely interesting. I didn't know anything at all about Abraham Lincoln's wife or children. I really enjoyed the book, even though Mary wasn't a character I loved. But it's always interesting to learn about real people and their struggles. And once you learn more of their personal struggles, you can understand their actions so much better. For any history lover, this is a must-read.
For fans of Abraham or Mary Todd Lincoln, or for fans of Civil War period history, this is a great read.
I can't speak for everything in this book, but from what I know of some of the history, Irving Stone writes a historically accurate, yet entertaining, account of the Lincolns.
I'm not into the politics so much, and reading about the years preceding the White House for the Lincolns was a little hard to get through.
A definite classic in the historical fiction world, this is a must-read for those interested in the Lincolns or in this era of history.
That said, however, I did make it through the book, and felt such sorrow for the Lincoln's through all of their lives and for the nation during the Civil War years.
I think it's tough to not be popular.....don't we all want to be liked by others?
I didn't realize that her life would continue to be so hard even after his assasination.
It wasn't in the book but I was curious and so continued to find out what happened to her and their children.
The picture this book paints of Abraham Lincoln is nothing short of breathtaking.
I had never studied more than cold facts about what Lincoln did, but this book opened my eyes to how truly great of a man he was.
Incredible.I knew absolutely nothing about Mary Todd Lincoln, and this book definitely does her justice.
This man doesn't need any more fantasies to build him up as a hero.
I will forever respect and admire him, and I want everyone to read this book, so they might do the same.
I really liked learning about Mary Todd Lincoln and the personal issues of Abraham as well.
One thing I really appreciated was the attention to family dynamics; I have heard many biographers discuss Mary Todd in less than favorable light, while making Abraham out to be saint, and I felt this story was much more fair.
BOTH parties had their own issues, albeit different, that greatly contributed to the troubles of the other.
The book is long and can get tiresome at times, but I definitely recommend it to anyone interested in the time period, the life of Abraham Lincoln, or just relationships in general.
I first read this book when I was 17 years old.
I was given an old hard copy of it a year or so ago.
I just finished it last week.This is the love story of Abraham and Mary Todd Lincoln.
It is wonderful.
I love the history that is blended into the story.
It is historically accurate, as Mr. Stone used old letters and journals to create the dialog.It is a timeless love story that is especially poignant, becasue we all know how the story ended.
I cried as if I had no idea what was coming.One of my all time favorites.
I really enjoyed this book. It gave me more insight into the lives of Mary and Abraham Lincoln. I had no idea how much they endured and went through in their lives. Even though I knew the ending, it was well enough written to make me emotional about it.
Well in this story Mary and Abraham's relationship and love story is all about respect between them.The author's style catches your attention because Irving describes briefly the feelings of both of these characters and how their love for each other is being expressed between this story.
Mary Todd is in love with Abraham and is surprised when she finds out that they are getting married and that Abraham engraved his name on her wedding ring.
Mary and Abraham did not want to have a big wedding and so they wanted to keep this surprise as quiet and simple as possible.The setting of this story takes place in Springfield, Illinois during 1839.
This was a pretty good book.
I was already knowledgeable about Mary Todd Lincoln's life, so there was nothing new to me and I didn't learn anything, but I didn't expect to.
It did a good job of ascribing motivation to that behavior of Mary's that seems extreme and unflattering to her, although of course her motivations in this novel are speculations and not historical fact.
Speculations in an historical novel are perfectly fine.
My one big problem with this book: Throughout, Lincoln is referred to as "Abraham" and Mary calls him "Abraham".
Other people in the book also call him "Abraham".
She never ever called him "Abraham".
Otherwise, a good book.
Love is Eternal is historical fiction and tells the story of Abe & Mary Lincoln through Mary's eyes.
It tells of the time from when they met through his assassination.
Abraham Lincoln is always shown as such a big character that Mary is often overshadowed, but she was very much involved in both his political and personal life.
While I know this book isn't 100% accurate it was interesting to see how there life evolved from when they met through to the Presidency.
Overall though I enjoyed the book and the incite into Mary Todd Lincoln.
This story showed a whole new side of Abraham Lincoln! He is way different in the book then I thought he would be. It was a story that showed how hard he tried to do the best he could. It was a more challenging read, but I would read it again.
Read while a teen but still remember the wonderful story. It's really a bio of Mary Todd Lincoln rather than Abraham but of course includes the history of her husband's career. Thought about it while considering the books in the Great American Read - should have been there.
Out of print - found a used copy. Story of Mary Todd Lincoln. Very much enjoyed. ‘May I more graciously accept MY small trials.’
Liked this but not as much as other Lincoln books
This is the book that got me interested in history.
Excellently written. Presents Mary Todd Lincoln in an entirely new way. She was the polish on that "Rough Diamond".
But the two things they held in common were enough to cement their lives together in matrimony, namely a shared literary interest and an unabashed political ambition.Mary enjoyed a truly classical education, some of it obtained surreptitiously when she sought out the tutorship of a man who was headmaster of a private boys' school.
If the literary magnet was what drew their minds together as one, it was the fire of political ambition in their bellies that cemented the relationship between Mary Todd and Abraham Lincoln.
I didn't take US History is college, so my knowledge of the Lincolns comes from High School, and the few things I've heard or read occasionally.
She used her education to help Abe as well, whose formal education was extremely limited.It is also true that she suffered from severe depression and migraines, but so did Abe, and he is seldom blamed for his behavior the way she is.Finally, what I didn't know, and I beleive that few others know either, is that Mary suffered a severe head injury after being thrown from a carriage a year or two before Abe was shot.
I'm glad she's dead, so she doesn't have to know how badly she was treated by history books.
Great biography of Mary Todd Lincoln, from her courtship days until the death of Abraham.“She must always remember that: love ebbed and flowed, now rich and shining, now shabby and disconsolate.
123Wisdom from Abe Lincoln: "An ugly man stands upon his own merits; nature has done nothing for him, and he feels he must labor to supply the deficit by amiability and good conduct.
132"'Our form of government is the nearest to perfection of any I know of in the extent to which it represents and protects the masses.
our Union is the bedrock of our beings; destroy that and you destroy the last great hope on earth.'" - Abe Lincoln -p.
It gave a good look at both Mary Todd Lincoln and Abraham Lincoln.
They had many struggles and it is amazing what he was able to get accomplished.
It was amazing to me how many times he lost the race before winning the presidency.
While reading the book I had a bonus to be able to go visit the home across from Ford Theater where Lincoln died while I was visiting DC it made it even more enriching, unfortunately Fords Theater was closed for renovation.
I gave it 4 stars because it was long and a little boring at times.
I liked this book because I learned a lot about the lives of Abraham Lincoln and his wife, Mary Todd, and I also learned more about the Civil War. Irving Stone cited a lot of sources, including personal letters written by members of the Lincoln family, close friends, and politicians.
I felt so sad for the Lincoln's as they had children die, other family members die, political failures, illnesses, and some financial troubles.
At times the book was hard for me to read because I either didn't understand the political references or I just felt so sad for Mary Todd and Abraham Lincoln.
A really amazing read about Mary Todd and Abraham Lincoln told from her perspective.
I learned so much about both of them.
And one of the things I love about historical novels is knowing the outcome of events (they will get married, he will be president, he will emancipate the slaves, he will be shot) but discovering how the dots connect.
And there were plenty of dark days in their lives when I would have despaired a positive outcome if I didn't already know the history.
A good, true story of enduring trials, rising above circumstance, standing for the right, and love conquering all.
Love this historical fiction book.
Both Abraham & Mary have to deal with their temperaments & all that life gave to them.
They demonstrated tremendous strength & courage.
Abe from the frontier & Mary from Kentucky aristocracy show us how opposites can attract.
And how tempers can rise.
And Mary demonstrated excellent home skills & needs for her family.
She cared for Lincoln in nurturing and verbal communication which he so needed.
I'm so tired of hearing of the madness of Mary!
This is a fine book.
And if you're interested in the Lincoln's, you should read it.

He was from a family in log cabin and educated due to his mother's concern and care, she from a wealthy family with relatives in Illinois and Kentucky both, and they met when she was being courted by the man who would be his rival in politics as well, a man of her class and far more acceptable to her family on the whole.
But Mary Todd found Abraham Lincoln far more intriguing and challenging, and in spite of his lack of social skills (recall the famous true story about her telling him that he had said he wanted to dance with her in the worst possible way) she accepted his proposal.
_Love Is Eternal_ (1954) by Irving Stone4/1/11:I read this book a long time ago. It was about Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd Lincoln. I remember that I liked Irving Stone's historical fiction. I've probably read several other books by him but I have no record of them.I just came across a mention of Stone's historical novel, The President's Lady: A Novel about Rachel and Andrew Jackson (1951). Sounds familiar. I'll have to keep that book in mind.
