https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132541.The_Secret_of_Platform_13
Their baby prince is taken through the passage and kidnapped by a rich, horrid woman who just wants a baby.
Ben sleeps in a windowless cupboard and has a miserable home life.The rich woman's actual son (Raymond) is super fat, incredibly spoiled, throws tantrums, has two computers, and gets an absurd amount of presents and toys.
The rescuers tell Raymond he's a prince.
The main goal in the story is just to get the young prince back to his people on the magical island.
A really fun, simple and magical read. It reminded me a lot of Harry Potter, what with platform 13 being like platform 9 and 3/4's, and Raymond/Ben were just like Dudley/Harry, and Mrs Trottle was sort of like Mrs Dursley.
This book has magic flowing throughout every word- I can't stress enough how much I love it.
When we were asked at school what we thought heaven would be like, I simply read out Ibbotson's description of 'the island', an island with curving beaches, mermaids, hags and the all-important mistmakers.
I'd like to thank Eva Ibbotson for giving this important part of my childhood.Also, when this edition gets to be 19 years old, the pages go a lovely shade of yellow and it smells really, really good.
One of my kids brought this book home from the school library several years ago and (true to form) I swiped it when they were done and read it.* I think younger Harry Potter fans would enjoy this book.
As in the HP books, there's a platform at London's Kings Cross Station that leads to a different, magical world.** This magical porthole opens only once every nine years, for a nine-day period.
(The fact that I probably want to read most of these books anyway should not result in a deduction from my points.)**Side note #2: This book actually was published 3 years before the first Harry Potter book, which has resulted in some raised eyebrows, but Ibbotson says she holds no grudges against Rowling.
Vom Bahnsteig 13, des bekannten Bahnhofs Kings Cross, führt alle neun Jahre ein Weg zu der Insel Gügel.
Regiert wird die Insel von einem liebenswerten Königspaar, dass nach Jahren ein kleiner Prinz geboren wird.
Leider währt die Freude nicht lange, da der Prinz in London entführt wird und der Zugang zum Gügel sich erst in neun Jahren wieder öffnet...Diese Geschichte soll J.K. Rowling zu Harry Potter inspiriert haben und es gibt da schon einige Parallelen.
Ich mochte die Charaktere sehr gerne, besonders der Nebling hat es mir angetan.
Mir hat es so gut gefallen, dass ich es unbedingt auch als Print im Regal stehen haben möchte.
I haven't read this since I was very, very small, and an adult re-read didn't disappoint. I can definitely see moments referenced in Harry Potter - the bratty, spoiled child in a delicious incident with a Knickerbocker Glory, to say the least - but as the Ibbotson herself has said she would "like to shake [J.K Rowling] by the hand. I think we all borrow from each other as writers." I can hardly take umbrage. Both books are fantastic, both authors equally so.
I have a 7 year old granddaughter who is a HUGE Harry Potter fan. I think she would love this book. She (Meredith) has a birthday next month, and this will definately be one of her gifts.Note: The parallels between The Secret of Platform 13 and Harry Potter are inescapable. This book actually was published 3 years before the first Harry Potter book. I appreciate the fact that it is not nearly as dark as the Harry Potter series.
I read this because I had heard that it may have inspired JK Rowling to write Harry Potter. It is a very cute fantasy story, but meant for a young audience. Maybe third or fourth grade.
Chapter book - fantasyFor grades 2-7An ogre, a wizard, a fey and a hag are sent to our world to rescue a young prince who was stolen as a baby in this humorous, low-fantasy adventure.Every nine years, for nine days, a doorway is open between our world and the Island, which is inhabited by all manner of fantastical creatures; when four of these magical people come through to rescue their prince, the mix-ups and adventure that ensue are more than enough to keep any young fantasy fan entertained.
It would also make a good read-alike for Harry Potter fans, particularly those who enjoy the atmosphere, fantastical creatures, and the humorous elements of the stories.
School Library Journal has a more appealing description of the set-up, calling it a "lively fantasy" and commenting on similarities to Roald Dahl, another good read-alike suggestion.
The Secret of Platform 13 is furiously magical and madly inventive.
It's the story of a hidden island, wrapped away from the 'everyday' by magic and mists (mists made, fyi, by the *most* amazing creation ever - mistmakers, seal-like creatures who produce mist every time they hear beautiful music).
The island is accessible through a secret door on Platform 13, Kings Cross which opens briefly every nine years.
Ibbotson's beautiful skills with magical and mysterious creatures remains ineffable.
She writes with a loving, brilliantly inventive touch and isn't afraid to inject darker overtones (the Harpies, for example, are amazingly unnerving).I love Ibbotson, and if you've not discovered her before, this is an excellent starting point.
They only let the baby out of their sight for a moment, but the prince has already been stolen by Mrs. Trottle, a snooty and dreadfully rich woman who decided on a whim one day that she wanted a baby.Plans are made to go and recover the lost prince in 9 years when the portal opens up again.A clever young hag named Odge convinces the queen to let her go along on the rescue mission, and a small troop of varied islands set out to find the lost prince and bring him home.This book is written in a sort of detached, factual, stuffily funny sort of way that reminded me of the Lemony Snicket books.I suppose it was alright, and I can't think of much to complain about, but I didn't ever enjoy the story, and my interest in finishing was halfhearted.Some of the plot twists don't make much sense if you think about them.
è rimasto colpito dal fatto che si possano rubare bambini e crescere cosi come se fossero propri..( nulla è riuscito a farlo ricredere nonostante abbia spiegato che fosse solo una storia...) Niente da fare, ne è rimasto impressionato e null'altro della trama lo ha un po' ammorbidito nella sua visione...A me è piaciuto, ma nulla di così particolare, i personaggi poco sviluppati e troppa carne sul fuoco.
Giusto x ricordare, questo è il famoso libro la cui Rowling ha rischiato di brutto di venire denunciata x plagio...( Tantissimi aspetti embrionali poi si ritrovano nella saga di Harry) fortuna avuto che la Ibbotson abbia giudicato la Rowling un vero genio e vi era solo da essere felici di averle dato spunti x la scrittura di Harry Potter
a sweet story. It reminded me of Rowling (of course), and Roald Dahl rolled into one. Wish I would’ve read this when I was younger.
Then - a while ago - I found the CD in one of my old CD boxes and listened to it again: And I still love the story so much.So I decided to give the book to my cousin for his 11th birthday.
I think he'll like it, too, because he read the whole Harry Potter series.
Yet you can try to find all the things that are similar to the first Harry Potter book - and there are definitely a few.For me the book is a ☆☆☆☆☆ one and I would be happy, if someone made a movie adaptation of this awesome book.
These are third grade student reviews!MAEVEThis surprisingly twisty turny tale is about a fey, a magnificent wizard, a magical garden lady, and last, a floating eyeball (or an Ogre if you would be so kind.) They all live on an island in peace until someone no one knows steels the baby prince and everyone is dreadfully sad.
Can a fey a wizard an ogre and a hag rescue the long lost little prince?
I think The Secret of Platform 13 is a great book because it takes place on a magical island and has a lot of suspense!
The reason being that Platform 13 hides a "gump" : an opening to a secret, utopian island.
The grief-stricken islanders have to wait for another nine years before they can launch a rescue operation.Finally the long wait is over and a search party comprising of the ancient wizard Cornelius, a sweet-tempered fey Gurkintrude, a yodeling gentle giant Hans and a small but willful hag Odge Gribble heads off to recover the lost prince.Reaching the prince’s (who now goes by the name of Raymond Trottle) new home, the search party is delighted to meet a perfectly charming, well-behaved boy.
My year 4 bookclub chose this as their second read.
To be honest when I first started reading I didn't know how on earth I was going to help them draw anything from the story.
I did enjoy the story and liked that I could draw references to books and movies such as; Harry Potter, Prince Caspian, flushed Away and Janes Bond.
At book club, the thing that I found most fascinating was, out of the 11 children, 8 of them had not comprehended, that Ben was in fact the King and Queens son.
I'm yet to decide why they didn't know that.....
Wow...I'll never look at knitting needles the same way again. Thanks a lot, Soft Parts Doreen.Seriously, though, why isn't this book a well-known classic? It was so charming and funny and addicting. It was like Roald Dahl with a bit of Narnia and Harry Potter thrown in. I loved the writing style, the characters, the plot, everything! What is it with the British and their children's books? They write kids' classics better than anyone else. Every time I read a new middle grade, I'm hoping that it will be just like this...a new favorite.
The world building was too cautious - it felt like the writer was trying hard to make the world believable (for example, the mist making techniques to hide the island which had separated from the mainlands) which was unnecessary I thought.
Another strong example, is the fact that neither Ben or the King and Queen could do magic; they were 'humans'.
With the exception of the mistmakers, which I did find adorable, I thought it lacked charm and the power of imagination to draw you in.I don't see this book as a forerunner for Harry Potter.
This story is full of humor and heart.
The characters are somewhat archetypal, but they are still very intriguing, and I adored Odge and Ben. I wish the island was explored more in the story, because I would love to travel there through the gump, experience its mythological wonders, and befriend the kind and humble islanders.
What made the story more enjoyable for me is that Eva Ibbotson dropped some hints about her ideas on certain topics between the lines, and I knew from these hints that she was someone I would like to talk to.
It was one of the first fantasy novels I ever read.
The story is easy to get into and fun to read.
I love the simplicity of the plot and the fun fantasy elements in the characters and their interactions.
it's pretty easy to figure out where the story is going but that wasn't a surprise for a children's novel.
And I love the quirks of each of the rescuers sent to bring back the prince.I actually found myself comparing this book to Harry Potter on this reread, lots of fun similarities.
Definitely a book I will be reading aloud to my children one day!
There was a lot to like about this book, but unfortunately, I found a lot to dislike too.
The extremely fatphobic descriptions of the Dudley Dursley-esque character and his mother were deeply off-putting, and the description of the harpies might be the most misogynistic two pages I've read in a long while.
I was really disappointed, as Eva Ibbotson's A Countess Below Stairs is one of my favorite books of all time, and her descriptive power is top notch - although now I worry that a reread might reveal similar attitudes in those character descriptions as well.I almost gave this three stars, because I really did enjoy most of this book, until I realized that I really can't recommend this book to anyone, least of all a young reader whose worldview is still forming.
I loved this book when I was first read it as a Year 6 student. Eva Ibbotson is a highly underrated author whose books combine magic and mystery with comedy and morals. I still read this book to this day as an adult and hope to keep reading it.
Un Cuento de Hadas muy bonito!
I love this book! Wish I had found it as a kid, it would definitely have been one of my read over and over favorites. Funny, delightful and surprising.
Such a sweet book, loved the story.
I didn't mind.Then I saw a bargain copy lately, back to back books by Eva Ibbotson for only 55 Php. Cool enough.
Two books: The Secret of Platform 13 and Island of the Aunts.
And after 9 years, a group of rescuers are sent to bring back the prince.The group is composed of a wizard, a fey, a giant, and by request, a young hag named Odge (and she's the main character in the story).
And in the end, the real prince comes back and it's all thanks to little Odge.I honestly had fun reading this book.
Read this years ago and loved it and just now re-read it for a grad class and loved it still.Eva Ibbotson introduces her readers to an island that is essentially a sanctuary for those that have gotten tired of the busy, stinking reality of real life.
The Island can be gotten to from the normal human world every nine years through special mounds called "gumps" that can be found across the world if you know where to look.
This book is really good! I do not want to spoil this book, but I'll tell two of the main characters- Cornelius and Raymond Trottle. This book is not realistic - because there are wizards and magical creatures in it - but it is fun to read. I would suggest this book for young readers ages like 5,6,7- so on. M (8yrs)
During this short visit Mrs. Trottle, a rich wicked lady steals the Prince and disappears.Nine years go by and a wizard, an ogre, a fey and a young hag called Odge Gribble with a very special gift; step into the streets of London to find the Prince of their Kingdom.
The little they know is that the Prince is now a spoiled nasty rich boy named Raymond Trottle who hardly looks or sounds like their lost Prince.
They must go through a great adventure before discovering their true prince with the help of young boy named Ben who works in the Trottle’s house…Eva Ibbotson is an amazing writer.
