https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206682.Dexter_in_the_Dark
(B) 73% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Its reliably fun comic relief has nothing to play against, as the book’s supernatural turn negates the series’ gritty feel.
You feel oddly let down.The interesting aspect of Dexter Morgan’s character is that he is a regular run of the mill serial killer with a code of ethics that was instilled in him by his cop stepfather Harry.
They want to believe that Dexter is just well Dexter, a really nasty serial killer that has a code that allows us all to feel reassured that he is only killing really bad people, so it isn’t sick and disgusting that we are rooting for him.
Dexter, without the reassuring presence of his Dark Passenger feels his life unraveling.
Disappointingly mystical. In attempting to "explain" Dexter, Lindsay has robbed him of much of his appeal. Anne Rice tried this in Queen of the Damned, to much the same effect: Dexter's unique talents, like Lestat's, were better left a mystery.
*cue crickets and awkward glances*I think I'm in the minority when I say that I liked this one very much, but I know why most readers (or, if you prefer, fans of this series) did not like it.
Dexter in the Dark takes fans of the series out an established realistic environ by alluding to a possible supernatural origin to the Dark Passenger.
I mean, how dare Lindsay suddenly want to do something different mid-series?
Lindsay tried something new, and fans balked.
Some fans see this book as a foul ball, but I prefer to think of it as an on-base.
Adventures of a sociopathic serial killer who generally only cuts up people who hurt children.Okay, awesome.
Lindsay has clearly done his research – the way Dexter completely fails to get sex, his inflated perceptions of his own intelligence, his completely oblivious sexism, his utter lack of the empathic reflex, it's all perfect.
Mostly it was that I knew what they were about, and I thought it would be stupid because I didn't believe a sociopath with that kind of organized offender behavior would ever follow a set of rules on who he could and couldn't kill.
It's hard to know where to start but the overall premise of the book, that Dexter's "Dark Passenger" is actually a supernatural possession by some kind of child of Moloch an eternal something-or-other, lacks so much believability that it ruins the entire series.
What made the first two books so good was that Dexter was the sociopath trying to live in the real world.
The success of the books was that we rooted for Dexter and his "Dark Passenger" in spite of him being a sociopath.
But how can we root for some horrible monster that possesses Dexter and forces him to kill?But Lindsay goes too far even with his idea of how someone becomes a sociopath.
I really should have liked this more.  I stood up. It was all too much. I could not even meet my own expectations, and to be asked to deal with all theirs was too suffocating.  Dexter's growth during this book is good, a solid advancement of his character rather than just rinse and repeat that afflicts so many series. The majority of it is driven by external forces, Dexter's interaction with other characters, but in this episode the Dark Passenger takes center stage.  I closed my eyes and listen
The majority of it is driven by external forces, Dexter's interaction with other characters, but in this episode the Dark Passenger takes center stage.
Dexter's relationship with Rita is advancing rapidly and her children, Astor and Cody are looking forward to their new father.
And even worse, I could tell that somehow it had become my problem; the children expected me to bail them out, and Rita was clearly prepared to lock and load and open fire on me.
"Nothing in life is fair.
Fair is a dirty word and I'll thank you not to use that language around me."
The first two books in the series hinted a bit at a supernatural element; the first book's dreams, for example, and they way our beloved serial killer referred to his dark side as a separate persona who resided in him.
I really wish we'd get more scenes between Dexter and Deborah; since book-Deborah knows about her brother's dark side, it just seems like it's a situation ripe for mining (I just reread my review of the last book, and I see I had used the word 'ripe' then, too.
I very much enjoyed part three in the Dexter series.
Compared to the preceding book, this was a lot heavier on the humor and in the case of Dexter I really think this is to prefer.
Being a long-time horror fan, I have no problems at all with the concept, but I still have to agree with that it is a strange feeling revelation to come in book 3.
I already had troubles with the 'all that are exposed to severe violent trauma at a certain age grow up to be sociopathic sadist killers' that are implied in both books and TV series, the 'possession' part adds a layer that's too much.
This one was bizarre.
Weird supernatural angles aside, it was absolutely hilarious.
Despite the fact those aspects were never explored again in the subsequent novels that Followed It. And you know how it is, It Follows.
Funny old life and blue eyed wightbears notwithstanding.
It's funny though, I came across this book in a Sunday market, while I was just randomly browsing for old books.
You know, you do, coming upon this book by pure chance when I was actually looking for it, was like me falling in love with all the things that were not there at all.
Dexter in the Dark review By: Richard Lu If you’ve ever seen Dexter on T.V then you’ll probably know that the plot of the show is about a man with dark desires who wishes to kill people. Instead of using these desires to kill innocent people, Dexter only bears his fangs on other predators that have escaped the judgement of the courts. The plot is absolutely gorgeous and it keeps viewers coming back week after week. Thankfully the book version of Dexter has follows the same format, Dexter express
Dexter in the Dark review	By: Richard Lu	If you’ve ever seen Dexter on T.V then you’ll probably know that the plot of the show is about a man with dark desires who wishes to kill people.
Thankfully the book version of Dexter has follows the same format, Dexter expresses his dark passenger by killing other criminals, just like in the show.
Apparently the book Dexter’s Dark Passenger is caused by an ancient god named Moloch whom has the ability to multiply itself within the minds of many.
Seria a treia a serialului, mult mai slabă decât cartea, păstrează doar pregătirile și nunta lui Dexter, axându-se, în schimb, asupra parteneriatului acestuia cu un procuror care îi descoperă secretul.
Mai mult, crime rituale comise de o sectă asemănătoare cu Santeria, implicând decapitări și obiecte de cult, precum și vizitele Poliției (reprezentată de sora lui Dexter, Debra/Deborah, și de colegul lui Dexter, Angel) la comercianți mărunți de asemenea obiecte, vor apărea în seria a cincea a serialului, influența volumului trei al ciclului romanesc fiind, în acest sens, foarte probabilă.2.
Sora lui Dexter, Deborah, este mult mai simpatică decât Debra din film.3.
I would argue that the supernatural element is present even in the show, if dialed down, but the books certainly have never left ambiguity concerning the shadows and Dexter's Passenger.
If you read books 1 and 2 and are still willing to gripe about the supernatural in this book, there's no talking to you.This, to me, is the best of the series so far (I have yet to read 4 and 5); there was very little of the novel during which I didn't have a sense of dread, and it was with great pains that I made myself stop 70-odd pages from the end (Nook version) on day one so that I could go to sleep.
Cody is explicitly referred to as having his own shadow (akin to Dexter's Passenger).
after reading a few of the other reviews, I think some people may have missed the very subtle point.In this book Dexter, who is usually so sure of himself, suddenly loses something very close to him.
He has no fallback.People who complained that Dexter wasn't up to his usual witty banter, might do well to think - Who the hell can come up with classic one-liners when you've been off your game for weeks?This is the whole point, finally seeing Dexter in a vulnerable position.I for one am a fan of the writing here.
Since I didn't, I found the whole thing just a bit irritating.” I also frequently laughed at Dexter's impatience with Cody and Astor's impatience to begin learning the Dark Path.The hints of the supernatural made in the first books are now fully formed and in motion, thus I have changed my genre designation.
I really enjoyed the prologue, and the bits intertwined in the story, that give us some more details on the Dark Passenger and its history.
What happened its seams in this chapter of you're life aptly named 'Dexter in the dark' you're dark passenger is in the dark for a while.
Not for me around the same period of year you had written this I was actively in tune with my dark passenger in let's say the most macabre of methods of execution.
Their young and let them be don't try to tune them in with their dark passenger just like your dear step-father had done with you, wake up dexter do what you do best out into the playing field I eagerly await.(This is a letter of fiction)
(view spoiler)[All this stuff with gods and the Watchers, the sacrifices and a hurricane, of course...
Boh :( (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[I like Dexter's fatherhood but I don't understand why the children have to be a mini Dexter.
(hide spoiler)]"Humans are wonderful combinations of silly, ignorant and dumb, aren't they?""In my lifelong study of human beings, I have found that no matter how hard they might try, they have found no way yet to prevent the arrival of Monday morning.""What is the correct facial expression for being accused of murder by your sister?
I do know that Dexter likes to eat though, and the amount of times food is mentioned reminds me of the later years of Peanuts and Snoopy's non-sequitar's about wanting a cookie.
I think that Charles Shultz was wanting a cookie of his own at the time and someone was telling him he couldn't have one.
I think I will try maybe reading the first book of the series, and maybe there will be more blood and less food.
There's also a very funny exchange that involves the victim of a tongue extraction, the sound "Goy," and the response "Yes. Methodist, actually." Oh, I laughed so hard I was crying.But then there's a lot of silliness.
And, yes, that is the best word for it -- though dumb is challenging it.
Second, I don't care how rich you are, you can't hynotize people just by playing music alone.
Third, there's the issue of Rita's "engagement ring" from Dearly Devoted that is never resolved in that book, and is never addressed here.
Ugh. Continuity, people.
Ugh. What happened to this series? I don't think I've ever read a series that was rooted in reality introduce a supernatural turn in a later book. And I hope I never read another.
My experience with the Dexter novels has been quite the opposite...After falling in love with our beloved killer on my tv sceen I ran to the library to find the books that inspired such an entrancing tv series.
The dry humor kept me laughing into the night.And by the third novel I think I have located my problem with them.
There is no character development present in any of the novels, nevermind the series as a whole.
My advice...first prepare yourself, then maybe read the first novel only and think of it as inspired by the series, and NOT vice versa.
I on the other hand enjoyed the length that the author Jeff Lindsay went through to explain the origins in a very creative and supernatural way that roots human's dark motivations, rituals and religion in this concept of IT or in Dexter's case his Dark Passenger.
This was a solid book and I like it much like the first, I am fond of the second a bit more than both but we all have our favorites.
I really get a kick out of Lindsay's Dexter and can't wait for book four.
I did read Harry Potter but the books were already out by the time I got back to reading them.
Have you ever read a book that made you feel like the author was getting between you and the story?
The characters were good, the basis of the story was delightfully wicked, and now you've gone and mucked it all up by trying to explain Dexter's motivations and getting all oogie-boogie on us.
I was willing to grit my teeth through your corny and redundant adjectives for Dexter.
I was willing to put up with Deborah (is she that masculine simply because you don't know how to write a woman?).
Stop it, Jeff.
My DP doesn't like authors who disappoint.
Very interesting. I might have enjoyed it more if I hadn't had to read it quite chopped up. I can't wait to find out in what direction the next book goes.
This one started off slow going, but as time went on I got incredibly engrossed. Listening to the audiobook of this seriously creeped me out, and I felt genuinely panicky at times. This was possibly my favourite book of the series so far, and I can't wait to see what the next book brings.

See, while the Dexter character is as engaging as in the other Dexter books I've read, and the general plot twists kept my interest, the author-- without my getting into the Diabolical Dexter Details-- has introduced this unexpected supernatural element that suddenly deeply affects everything I ever thought about Demented Dexter.
I purposefully haven't looked at the other reviews of this book because I didn't want to be influenced by them, but I'll be keen to see what other folks say.
Hey, maybe the author wishes he hadn't added it either.So, in summary-- same sort of plot twists and humor normally found in a Dexter novel.
As with the second book you will see odds and ends – such as characters and specific acts – which are the same, but as with the second book it is massively different.This third book allows us to find out a lot more about Dexter’s Dark Passenger.
The ending in particular I found to be highly amusing (but to say anything would be to ruin it for you).If you’re a Dexter fan, even if this twist does put you off, I suggest reading this book.
The Dark Passenger details found out in this book do not reappear in later books yet it is nice to get some kind of information.
I love being inside Dexter's head, which you get in the show, but not as much as the book.
DEXTER IN THE DARK is the third installment in the series and it was, in my opinion, a great read.During this story Dexter somehow seems to lose his Dark Passenger(which is a brilliant name I must add).
The story in this book revolves around some gruesome ritual murders that send Dexter's Dark Passenger off into hiding.
And without his Dark Passenger Dexter is without his killer mojo and instinct.
Can he being a killer without his Dark Passenger?
I liked this whole story.
The first 2 Dexter books were great.
Then the Dexter saga comes to a screeching halt with this book.
I honestly don't know what "possessed" Lindsay to think that the Dexter story needed ghosts.To Lindsay's credit, there were a few places in the book that I cracked a smile or two.
Even a spot where I was slightly excited to find out what happened next...
slightly.
But when I put the book down, all I could remember thinking was, I want those hours of my life back so I can watch paint dry.
