https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1037190.Harry_by_the_Sea
Another story with the adorable Harry and his day at the beach. Small adventures await everywhere.
Harry, the white dog with black spots, is back in another picture book. As this title implies, Harry and his family take a trip to the seashore. Covered in seaweed, Harry is mistaken for a sea monster. A fun read but not quite the caliber of the other Harry books by this author/illustrator duo.
First sentence: Harry was a white dog with black spots who liked everything about the seashore, except...the hot sun.
Premise/plot: Harry gets too hot at the beach, and, while looking for some shade, accidentally gets swept out to sea.
The good news is he makes it back to shore.
The bad news?
I'd read other books in the series.
But we did not have Harry By the Sea in our home library.
(I might have squealed a bit.) It was a very fun book.Text: 4 out of 5Illustrations: 4 out of 5Total: 8 out of 10
This is part of the Better World Books 2016 Reading Challenge.
It fulfills the book published in the year I was born.
It's a fun book that my children used to love reading.
I still had it in my bookshelves from years ago.
A sweet dog goes with his family to the beach for a day and gets lost and covered in seaweed while hunting shade.
The antics lead to being called "a bushy-backed sea slug", which I think is so funny.
*2016 BWB challenge- published the year of I was born 1956, under 200 pages*
The story teaches children about getting lost and what they should do if they are lost.
The story tells the children that they should look out for the people they are lost and not get distracted like harry the dog.
I would recommend this story as a bed time reader because the adult can help the child to understand the importance of what they should do when they are lost.
The main character Harry can be used an example for children on what they should not to when they are lost, the adult can sue Harry as the example and develop the child’s understanding.
A classic picture book featuring the beloved Harry the Dirty Dog!When Harry goes on a visit to the beach, he is mistaken for a sea creature when a big wave covers him with seaweed. Harry also has to hunt for his family beneath all the similar beach umbrellas. Children will relate to Harry's funny misadventures.This is an irresistible story featuring a classic picture book character, especially perfect for young dog lovers and fans of Harry the Dirty Dog.For more fun with Harry the Dirty Dog, don't miss No Roses for Harry! and Harry and the Lady Next Door.
A cute beach read about a dog. Can’t ask for much more than that! I felt so bad for Harry in the beginning; I would have gladly made room for him under my umbrella. My heart always breaks a little when I hear someone tell a dog to “get lost”, but I love a happy ending.
In typical Harry fashion, something or someone goes missing and must be found. It's a nice, subtle way to introduce children to the concept of loss and again, simple illustrations are extremely effective.
An oldie but goodie
This is a cute story about Harry the dog who went to the beach with the family on a very hot day, and got mistaken as a sea monster when a huge wave washes over him. Enjoyable illustrations.
I love harry, he's a classic. The story is cute, though some might find one part offensive (when Harry tries to stay cool by walking behind a fat lady in her shadow).
Cute children’s story of mistaken identity
All of the Harry the Dog books are adorable and should be an addition to any children's library.
It's interesting to re-read books I read as a child. I found the copy from 1965 in a shop this weekend.
Harry went with his family to the beach.
It was a very hot day.Everywhere Harry went to cool off, he was told to leave.
The hot dog man was saying, "Hurry!", but since his ears were full of water, Harry thought his name was being called instead.
When he saw the hot dogs in the man's hands, Harry started jumping.
The jumping shook off the seaweed and everyone saw that he was just a dog, not a monster.
His family was glad to find him in the crowd and took him back to their umbrella.Cute for preschool storytimes.
Harry and his family go to the beach but when he wanders off to find a way to keep cool, he gets lost.
Covered in seaweed and mistaken for a sea monster, Harry goes looking for his family, having misadventures on the way.This one's a bit long for storytime, but I think children will enjoy the sight of Harry covered in seaweed.
A cute pick for beach themes.Edited after storytime: While this one WAS long, and I definitely could have skipped some bits in the middle if I'd planned it better, this worked out to be a good storytime pick.
This story wasn't what I was expecting - it wasn't your typical beach visit.
Fun and quite entertaining!
Ages: 3 - 7Cleanliness: someone says "holy smoke." There are pictures of people in trunks and bathing suits, a few of the ladies are wearing two-pieces though they aren't forefront in the pictures.**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Harry the Dog books are lovable wonderful books that children would enjoy being read to or read themselves. The illustrations are basic pastel colors but draws you into them so even without able to read the words a child would LOVE sitting and looking at the pictures.In this one the family go to the beach, Harry gets hot and can't find a place to cool down until the waves get on him and cover him in seaweed. Everyone thinks he's a sea creature. But in the end his family finds him once again. Super cute child's book.
I grew up with Harry the Dirty Dog but I don't think I was ever read this one, it was still a pleasure to come across as I was shelving books in the library.
The pictures aren't spectacular but they're homey and Harry is as unintentionally mischievous as ever.
Poor Harry loves everything about the beach but the hot sun and that's the one thing he can't seem to escape.
This has quite a bit of text compared to a lot of modern picture books but if you have a little one who loves books they may fall in love with this one too.
Harry visits the seashore with his family and becomes a seaweed monster. This is a funny tale in the series of books about Harry by Gene Zion and Margaret Bloy Graham. The illustrations are humorous and the story is timeless (even the swimsuits are back in style!) We really enjoyed reading this story together. It's a nice tale for the end of summer.
The next installment (for us) of the adventures of Harry. I liked it, but I'm not particularly enthralled by him. There's something a little clunky about the writing in this one in particular - it doesn't flow as well as I found Harry the Dirty Dog did. My daughter on the other hand, is a huge fan, and loved it.
This was a super cute, simple story; perfect for a bedtime story to read together with a little one who is a novice reader (like my 6-year old nephew). Although an adorable tale, it does start off a little harsh in the beginning because all the people seemed to be unnecessarily hostile towards the little dog, but like most children's books, the offenders redeem themselves in the end and everyone lives happily ever after.
This is a great story about a curious puppy who finds himself in different problematic events. This story is great for sequencing. I would not recommend these book for under second grade, unless the teacher is reading the story to the class and can stop and explain some of the inferences needed to comprehend the story. I would use this book in the classroom for inferencing, sequencing, and/or main idea.
This is my favorite book in the Harry the Dirty Dog series. Harry gets separated from his family at the beach and after being swept up in a wave comes out of the ocean covered in seaweed and looking like a sea monster, which leads to lots of confusion and panic on the beach.The only problem with reading this to the class that came to the library to visit was most of the kids had read it already.
This story is amazing,tells the world to not disown others. There are people in the world, even family, that will turn their back on you and wont treat you equally. As litte Harry begins to bring on attention with his "accidental body garment", not only does his family treat him special, he receives his own umbrella from the rays of the sun.
In retrospect, I guess I DID know that there were other books to the Harry books after "...Dirty Dog". I remembered reading No Roses as soon as I opened it, but By the Sea was a whole new adventure. The illustrations are great even after nearly 55 years! WOW! Even though this series has been through many generations of readers, it is still a winner!
Darling story, just what children love. Some suspense involved which is exciting and wonderful. Children are drawn into the story as they become concerned about Harry being too hot, being mistaken for someone he is not, and feeling a little lost. Good practice for developing compassion and understanding outcomes.Lovely comic illustrations. Delightful.
Maybe when 3-1/2 yo son is older we may have a better review of this book. I had to edit the fear laden "sea monster" pages with "strange creature" stories, as not to teach my little guy how to be afraid. No scare tactics are welcome in our home, so I don't allow it to be read aloud, even if it all ends well. We'll stick with Harry the Dirty Dog for now. No fear here.
This is a sweet story about a family dog who's white with black spots. I read this one a while ago. The only thing I really remember about it is that when Harry goes to the beach with the family, he wanders away from the blanket. Then he can't find his family because it seems everyone on the beach has that yellow, white, and green stripped umbrella (the one on the cover).
What's not to like about Harry? This one isn't quite as charming as Harry the Dirty Dog, but it's still a fun companion book. Harry just looks so cute wrapped up in seaweed and running around the beach as a sea creature. It did sort of rub me the wrong way that a character is referred to as "a fat lady," but I'll give it a pass since it is of another era.
