https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17681595-midnight-express
Billy Hayes' story has infiltrated its way into popular culture.Admittedly there are many better written books on Turkey to peruse, including Istanbul: The Imperial City, Lords of the Horizons A History of the Ottoman Empire, Inside the Seraglio: Private Lives of the Sultans in Istanbul and many others besides, but Billy Hayes story is famous and compelling because of the sheer fascinating horror afforded by life in a foreign jail.
And tell it he does.Having seen the inside of several Turkish "police-hotels" myself, I can confirm that they are substantially less than pleasant.
I suppose the bottom line, for myself and Billy, is that if you can avoid time in the Turkish choky, then so much the better.
I have also seen mention of the right Bill Hayes in some obituaries, but not in any of the major media ones that published yesterday, when Oliver Sacks died._______We have a long way to goThe synchronicities of the world, or perhaps the bits of flotsam thrown up on the sea of Chaos can sometimes startle you with their relevance.This book popped up as a recommendation just now.
Oliver Sacks died yesterday.
It is shameful that in the obituaries of Oliver Sacks, not one of them mentioned his partner and lover Billy Hayes.
Libro autobiográfico basado en la historia real de Billy Hayes, un ciudadano norteamericano que viaja a Turquía y es prisionero en condiciones inhumanas por traficar Hachís, una droga ilegal pegada en su cuerpo. Sirvió de guión para la película homónima protagonizada por Brad Davis y John Hurt. BSO a cargo de Giorgio Moroder.40 Anniversary
I'll admit that this was a surprisingly good book, in spite of the fact that I really have a dislike for the author.
It wasn't long before I realized that the movie had been fictionalized to the point of being a totally different story.I can't work up any sympathy for the author, a bisexual smuggler who brought his ordeal on himself through his selfishly motivated attempt to smuggle dope out of Turkey.
My sympathies were with his parents who were brought to the brink of bankruptcy through their efforts to free him.
I have a tendency to not read a book once I have watched the movie because when I do that the characters of the book will look like the ones in the movie.Meaning I cannot make up my mind how people might look.
Among the differences is a scene in which Hayes kills the prison guard Hamid "the bear," the main antagonist of the story.
It sounds to me more like earning some more cash but I will check it out.Anyway there is nothing about the relationship with his parents who did help him with money.I recommend this book not for the writing but the story will draw you in.
It was supposedly a true story.
Today I listened to Billy Hayes tell the story he always wanted.
I liked his new true story better.
I can hope goodreads brings out the truth about deplorable acts in this industry.Billy used to hang out around Bluepoint and Sayville Long Island and drugs were everywhere.
He stated it was his life changing event and is doing everything he can to make it up to those he hurt.Forget the book at get Billy Hayes Nat Geo presentation about his drug experience.
Don's waste your time with this book...
Η αληθινή ιστορία του Αμερικανού Γουίλιαμ Χέις, που πιάστηκε το 1970 στο αεροδρόμιο της Κωνσταντινούπολης κουβαλώντας δυο κιλά χασίς. Το τούρκικο δικαστήριο τον καταδίκασε σε 30 χρόνια κάθειρξη. Μετά από πέντε χρόνια στις φυλακές της Τουρκίας κατάφερε να δραπετεύσει και πέρασε από τον Έβρο στην Ελλάδα. Επιστρέφοντας στην πατρίδα του έγραψε την περιπέτειά του. Μετά από λίγο καιρό γυρίστηκε και η ομώνυμη ταινία με τον αδικοχαμένο Μπραντ Ντέιβις. Διαβάζεται ευχάριστα ως μια δραματική περιπέτεια.
Fairly well known, the plug on the cover says 'A harrowing true story in the great Papillion tradition', which it really is.
He attends court a couple of times, is sentenced to a short stay, which is subsequently changed to thirty years by the high court.
It also tells the stories (or part of them) of Hayes' fellow inmates,although whether these are true or not is probably up for debate.
In likelihood he probably changed their details around etc.For me it was pretty compelling reading.
Four stars for me.On another note, I don't recall having seen the film, but it does differ fairly significantly from the book.
Will have to read this book again. Not a great piece of work for sure. That's my take on it right now. Awkward to read. I'll leave it at that for now. If I reread it I'll post another review.
Quest'estate ero in Svizzera, gironzolavo tra le bancarelle di Lugano e da lontano ho visto la copertina di questo libro, non sapevo neanche che prima del film ci fu il libro, potevo immaginarlo certamente, ma ci sono delle cose che dai per scontato e basta.
Ammetto che ho tenuto da parte questo libro per un po' perchè avevo una paura folle che mi offuscasse uno dei miei film preferiti.
E' la storia di uomini imprigionati che sono costretti a sopravvivere nonostante tutte le angherie, le privazioni, le torture e il sistema legale della Turchia negli anni settanta.Questo è un libro che ti colpisce duro e tu sei lì che ad un certo punto gridi "dai Billy, non mollare, il confine è lì, dai ancora un poco e ce la fai...".
Expreso de medianoche nos narra la historia de William, "Billy", el mismo escritor, quién es condenado a 30 años en una prisión de Turquía.El libro es muy rápido de leer.
Es narrado desde la perspectiva del protagonista y nos cuenta cada experiencia dentro de la prisión, a un ritmo muy rápido.Aunque ya sepas como termina la historia (lo cuenta la sinopsis), la pregunta del ¿cómo?
se mantiene durante todo el libro.Si bien yo me esperaba "más acción", por así decirle, creo que sucede todo muy rápido al final, pero eso no quiere decir que no me gustó.
PD: me gustó mucho descubrir el por qué del título del libro.
Cumple con su función, te cuenta una historia y no trata de ser pomposa en su intento, el gancho es inmediato.Basada en una historia real (con alguna que otra mentirilla piadosa), Expreso de medianoche es la crónica de Billy Hayes en una cárcel de Turquía tras su fallido intento de pasar hachís de contrabando.
La película es buena sin dudas, PERO no es 100% fiel al libro, incluso llego a perjudicar muchísimo la imagen de Turquía como país (por retratarlos como bárbaros), el mismo autor pidió perdón por el daño causado, otros solo vieron el poder que ejerce el cine sobre la opinión de las personas.
Lo recomiendo para pasar un buen rato.
This book was difficult for me to read in that it portrays Turkey and the Turks in such a bad light. I lived in Turkey around the same time as Billy Hayes was imprisoned there yet found the Turks to be kind and hospitable, generous and magnanimous. Having said that I do not doubt that prison life as described by Hayes was awful and perhaps still is. The book is a quick read and not great literature.
Writing is not so great, but story interesting enough. What I hated was the main character, Billy. Hello, moron, if you are caught sneaking drugs into (or was it out of? I can't remember) Turkey, and you were warned not to do it, then you must suffer the consequences. I had no sympathy for Billy. He came across as the typical American asshole in a foreign country and then had the audacity to complain when he was punished for his crime. Dumb ass.
I'm so glad it did, since it was read by Billy Hayes himself!I'd heard that the movie was greatly sensationalized compared to the book, and I agree that there were some things changed and maybe *enhanced*....
however, it's not untrue that Billy Hayes went through several beatings, was treated horribly, and he struggled for ages (unsuccessfully) to get help from his family, friends, and the American Consulate to win his freedom legally.
Is there any chance he'll survive?" And I felt like such an idiot at those times, because he obviously did, or the story wouldn't have been told!
Needless to say, it wasn't like one of those books about the sea which inspires a kid to join the merchant marine--rather, this was a cautionary tale which told me in no uncertain terms that I shouldn't be doing shit like this in real life--and I didn't.It's been many years since I last read it--I don't think I've read it since around 1980--but I still remember it well enough to know the differences from the movie.
It's a very interesting turn of events since Midnight Express.Billy Hayes wasn't--and perhaps still isn't--the kind of guy we'd like to be friends with, but he certainly had a great story to tell.
He is sent to a Turkish prison that is definitely not Club Med by any means and it is the beginning of sheer survival and endurance of staying alive after being sentenced to 33 years for his crime.After numerous attempts from the US Consulate and his parents helping for his release he is subjected to brutality and squalor conditions to where he basically goes insane.
I found this autobiography brutally honest, unbelievable in the respect that someone could be subjected to such treatment and how Billy's resilience kept some part of hope alive to try and escape his sentence of not only for his crime but his emotional breakdown of his spirit.
I took a non-fiction writing class in Ames/ISU and we required to read two non-fiction books.
I choose this one (the teacher was a little dismayed at my choice as it had been a movie.
But I told the class.
The movie is all wrong and doesn't really follow the book.
The screenplay was by Oliver Stone.
A lot of the book is rearranged for the movie, which kind of made me mad.
He never killed the guard...It really showed how to fictionalize a non-fiction book.
I told this to the class and they seemed less than interested in my analysis
Μια αληθινή ιστορία για τον ανθρώπινο αγώνα επιβίωσης σε έναν σκληρό κόσμο που ονομάζεται φυλακή. Δεν ξέρω αν ο πρωταγωνιστής βρέθηκε απόλυτα αδικημένος σε πρωτόγνωρα τουρκικά καθεστώτα ,ίσως εκ διαμέτρου αντίθετα με τα ιδεώδη της Αμερικής του '70 ,καθώς κάπου υπάρχει μια υπερβολή στο θέμα της αφεσης αμαρτιών των χρηστών και κατόχων χασισιου. Η δύναμη και η θέληση παρ όλα αυτά για δραπετευση σε έναν αγώνα εκτός ανθρωπίνων ορίων ,δείχνει τη βαθιά και πανανθρώπινη ανάγκη για ελευθερία. Ο,τι και αν σημαίνει ελευθερία:σωματική,πνευματική,συναισθηματική.
En una palabra: Excepcional. Me encantó esta travesía emprendida sin querer por un hombre que por una mala decisión perdió algo que no se puede recuperar y que es tan valioso como lo es el tiempo, haciéndonos reflexionar en tantas cosas que damos por sentadas en la vida y que dejamos de disfrutar y darles el verdadero valor que se merecen.Recomendado
The story of Billy Hayes in that Turkish prison is interesting, though disturbing. I wonder if there are parts that have been made up or embellished. The downside of this book is that close minded people will automatically think that Turkey is awful, which is not true at all. I was in Turkey last year and it was beautiful.
Saw the movie as a teenager. Every pot smoker's nightmare -- being busted for drug possession in Turkey & sent to a Turkish prison. Even now, decades later, Hayes' story still has the capacity to scare the bejeezus out of you.
The book is better and different than the film (and the film was brilliant)
¡IMPRESIONANTE!
So begins a legal nightmare that sees him thrown in a decrepit prison, beaten by sadistic guards, and helpless but to watch as the slowly turning wheels of Turkish justice snowball his sentence into Life, only to generously reduce it to thirty years.
The drama is high, and the frankness of the narrator-protagonist is admirable, especially as he pulls zero punches regarding things such as his initial naiveté, his continued use of hashish, and his situational homosexuality, but the writing is merely passable in style, and I found Billy's tone of despair and entitlement harder to relate to and enjoy than Henri 'Papillion' Charriere's criminal stoicism and swashbuckling joie de vivre.
I remember a dude gets busted at the airport trying to smuggle some hash out of Turkey.
He goes to a Turkish prison and bites of a guys tongue, has consensual buttsex and escapes after killing a guard that tries to initiate non-consensual buttsex.
The book is pretty similar but there's no tongue biting.
And he doesn't kill anybody (other dudes do).
And nobody tries to force-buns him.
And he escapes by getting transferred to a chill island prison and steals a rowboat, paddles to the shore, dyes his hair and takes cabs and buses almost all the way to Greece (which is super far), swims across a river and gets captured by Greek soldiers in a minefield.
It's a pretty good read, you guys.3.5
lo unico que no puedo dejar de pensar, es que esto fue real, sin duda una muestra de que la realidad supera muchas veces la ficcion, lo malo, que en partes es confuso y lento, pero en general un muy buen libro, con toques novelescos para hacerlo mas interesante, y en todo el libro no dejas de preguntarte si esta bien su sancion, o estan exagerando los turcos, no sabes de que lado ponerte, sientes lastima por el protagonista pero otras veces dices, se lo merece
Η αυτοβιογραφία του Μπίλι Χείς μ'άρεσε πολύ για τη δύναμη,το πείσμα και την επιμονή που επέδειξε για να καταφέρει να αποδράσει και να ζήσει πάλι τη ζωή που του στέρησαν πέντε χρόνια που βρισκόταν στη φυλακή.Ο εγκλεισμός του όμως και οι δύσκολες συνθήκες που βίωσε τον έκαναν να αλλάξει σαν άνθρωπο,να έρθει πιο κοντά με τους γονείς του,να αναθεωρήσει τις παλιές του αντιλήψεις και να βγει πιο ώριμος και νικητής από αυτή τη δοκιμασία.
Billy Hayes was caught by Turkish police trying to smuggle hashish out of the country. Convicted, he was eventually sentenced to thirty years in prison. His only hope for a normal life and a return to the United States was to plan a dangerous escape.Told in a simple, open, style, Hayes' autobiographical account of his time in prison is harsh and brutal.
I had very little sympathy for the main character. He knew it was against the law to deal drugs in Turkey. He was surprised he wasn't going to be incarcerated like he would have been in the U.S.? That Turks treat criminals differently? Would he then go to Singapore and chew gum? Just plain stupid.
