https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/602982.My_Father_s_Glory_My_Mother_s_Castle
My Father's Glory & My Mother's Castle: Marcel Pagnol's Memories of Childhood are bound as if they were two separate works, but I see them as a single continuum.I had actually read My Father's Glory a couple of years ago, so I will confine my comments here to My Mother's Castle, which carries on the adventures of Marcel's loving family.
By chance, the father meets an old acquaintance, a canal inspector named Bouzique, who allows him to follow the canals and cut a couple hours off their walk -- though it involves the father passing himself off as a canal employee.
The passionate rawness of childhood is so well expressed in these two books - even if you don't like the fact that most of "My Father's Glory" is based around hunting and netting birds - you will have to admit that Pagnol recounts the pitfalls and wonders of growing up with great detail and skill.
Pagnol really has a way with words - an example:"In a purple velvet sky, innumerable stars were glistening.
Hard, bright, and cold they gleamed, congealed by the night frost...over Tete-Rouge, invisible in the darkness, a big planet was hanging like a lantern, so close you could imagine you could see the empty space behind it.
I was interested to see that while the movie version includes a very French account of young Marcel entrapped in calf love with a petulant young girl who uses him abominably, it was not so in the novel.
The many accounts of the solicitous care he took of his mother- even at such a young age, the undeniable sense of honor shown by his father, the friendliness of strangers, the seeming simplicity of the time, all left me wishing I could travel back and experience this first-hand.I would consider this an excellent vacation novel.
The film version in French with subtitle options is the best, if you can find it.
How could anyone not enjoy this book. Beautiful and sweet, it's like a long summer picnic with good old friends. And then that last couple pages appear and rip your heart out.
Just did a REread of these two wonderful books under the Title "The Days Were Too Short" which captures the Nostalgia of their subject without any mawkish sentimentality...and therein lies their strength, while retaining charm and humour and sorrow.A brilliant recounting of Provencal Lives and a Childhood.THERE ARE NO SPOILERS IN THIS RAVE !!!!I read these two books under the One Title of"The Days Were Too Short" in the early 1960's.Marcel Pagnol wrote and had them published in 1957 when he was 62 years old.He died in 1975 having written two more books about his Provencal Childhood.I was surprised to discover recently that the books were originally written for children and were quite brief...having read the first 20 pages I have my doubts about this!!!The English Title really picks up on the heavy Nostalgic Feel that these books convey,very probably not to children who are too young to be 'nostalgic',but with adults this aspect of a Lost Past has absolutely WOWED them.AND me !!!
This reader, never having understood the boyish practice of torturing insects, and having been blessed with never needing to kill for food, felt occasionally excluded by the book's many references to both, but the author's adoration for the life he's remembering transcends any such alienation in the end.
Look, it's not a profound read (as the TLS review on the back cover says, 'the Prousts and the Sartres may be admired, but Pagnol is loved'), but it's a romantic one, and you get to shed a tear or two at the end.

Lovely memoir of Marcel Pagnol's childhood in France. He was able to put such realism into his Fanny trilogy of movies because he really understood the people of Marseilles. I wish my French were good enough to read this in the original language, but...
Actual rating: 4.00
Some have commented that the book is a little too sweet, but Pagnol appears to be well aware that children don’t have the sophisticated comprehension that adults do and we see young Marcel's world as he sees it, not necessarily how his parents or Uncle Jules would have seen it.
You’ll have to read it to find out whether Marcel’s pride in his father returns.Marcel Pagnol is describing the rural world we have lost in a similar way that Thomas Hardy did in English, perhaps with a little more general happiness.The book is autobiographical, even using his own name and the names of members of his family.
I grew up hearing about Marcel Pagnol, as if he was an extended member of my French family who I hadn't met yet.
My grandmother read all his books.
But of course the books were in French and I hadn't thought, until recently, to see if there were any English translations.
Getting to read Marcel Pagnol was, indeed, like meeting a relative, whose sense of humor and warmth and love reminded me so much of my family.
I just finished the books and am genuinely choked up.
This is a beautiful, moving tribute—of Pagnol's family, and in a wonderful, bittersweet way, my family too.
Looking at the reviews before reading this book I was very certain that I would like it and determined not to use the word charming which permeates almost every review.
Well I loved this book and it is ridiculously charming.
It is not twee or canned but in the stories of Maurice Pagnols youth in the Provence at the start of the 20th century you have a story so shot through with love, affection and humor that it positively oozes with charm.
In fact the book practically leans over and tickles you with its charm.The book is an unfettered and unlikely combination of a celebration of the joys of childhood, the love of parents and freedom.
My Father's Glory - A charming depiction of a simpler time as experienced through the eyes of a child. Pagnol really knows how to take everyday situations and imbue them with profound beauty and adventure. I'm sure the second volume, 'My Mother's Castle,' will be just as good!My Mother's Castle - Another wonderful book from Pagnol. Whilst I believe that 'My Father's Glory' was marginally better, this is still a fantastic book and a beautiful ode to Pagnol's mother. Also had to fight back one or two tears with the last couple of chapters!
Marcel Pagnol is my husband's favorite writer and many years ago, he showed me the films based on these two books. I enjoyed them and was glad to recently find the two stories in English. They are beautifully and lovingly written with charm and humor as he reminisced of his childhood in Provence. I recommend it to lovers of nature, family and good books.
This is the story of several years of the author's childhood in France, in the country near Marseilles before World War 1. I liked it very much; it shows the author's love for his family, friends and the countryside in which he lived. I'm sure it's long gone, but it was wonderful to read about.
What a wonderful, lyrical memoir of childhood this is. So many beautiful scenes, no sentimentality or faux humor— Pagnol does not turn his schoolteacher father and his young mother into cartoons, or mock his happy childhood — in the wild forests of Provence. Oh, and the ending is a knockout.
This charming memoir was a wonderful glimpse through a child's eyes at life in Provence in the middle years of the Third Republic. Marcel Pagnol was as brilliant a writer as he was a film maker and this funny and heart warming remembrance was a complete delight for me.
Poignant story of Marcel Pagnol's mostly idyllic childhood.
By Marcel Pagnol.Set early in the 20th century in rural Provence.The books are nostalgic, loving, fu
I started reading this book after watching (for the second time) the wonderful French film adaptations.
Pagnol beautifully brings to life the feelings of a child in summer, free from the worries of school, rejoicing in the freedoms of vacation.
The final two chapters of the book, providing a sort of epilogue to the story, are bittersweet and sad.
They are wonderfully faithful adaptations and really bring the time period and the setting to life.
They capture a time and a lifestyle long gone for most and even some of the characters in the story, mention the joys of new household conveniences, including gas and plumbing.
We forget how people actually went hunting for food they ate and in rural France that includes a lot of game cooked with herbs that grew wild.
A lot of time is spent talking about the birds or game they spend their summer days viewing or hunting which displays an incredible memory for detail and although of not much interest to the general reader raises it above the normal nature based story.
Or, wait, I can't really say that, I think, because I didn't finish it, although the book itself, from what I read, was fine.
Nothing wrong with the writing.What I did not like was the author, and since Marcel/Marcel and Isabelle are stories about the author's childhood (in Provence, as the title says), I simply couldn't stand to read the book.
I have never experienced most of the things that Pagnol talks about in his book mainly because I was born into an entirely different time and place, which makes my past life incomparable to the childhood of the author.
But that only makes the book more interesting and catchy.
I believe men who experienced something at least a bit similar to Pagnol would enjoy the book much more than anyone else because of nostalgia that is tied to the book incredibly strongly.
The odour of nostalgia is present at every page and that is what makes the book so readable and fun.
The powerful, undeniably moving final chapters by Marcel Pagnol, writing as an old man - not looking back not at his glittering career in French cinema, but on the "unforgettable sorrows" of his life - strike to the core.
Based on the period before World War One when Pagnol was a child, the trials and tribulations of his family escaping Marseilles for rural escapades is amusing, evocative and full of resonance.The writing is a delight, full of timeless observations and the wide-eyed fragility of youth that will strike a chord with most readers.
Dieses Buch enthält die beiden Romane "Der Ruhm meines Vaters" und "Das Schloss meiner Mutter", die beide auch sehr schön verfilmt worden sind.Soweit ich weiß handelt es sich hierbei um die autobiografischen Kindheitserinnerungen des Autors, der Anfang des 20.
Jh. als Sohn eines Lehrers aufwächst und seine Sommerferien mit der Familie 'auf dem Land' in der Provence verbringt.
Ich habe das Buch damals sehr gern gelesen und auch die Filme genossen.

Marcel Pagnol is one of France's great XXth century writers and playwrights.
I already knew the Trilogie Marseillaise and was really captivated by the atmosphere of early XXth century Provence.
La Gloire de mon Père is definitely a book for all ages, as it will bring out different emotions and thoughts depending on at what age you are reading it.
Pagnol's outlook on life through his eyes as a child is charming and innocent.
Now, all I really want is to read Le Château de ma Mère !
Im Mittelpunkt stehen die Ferienerlebnisse des kleinen Marcel und seiner Familie außerhalb der Stadt Marseille, wo der Vater als Lehrer arbeitet. Neben den eher langweiligen Passagen über das Jagen und die Beschreibungen kindlich-grausamer Tierquälerei handelt es sich um eine schöne Kindheitserinnerung, in der Phantasie, Heldenmut, bezaubernde Landschaft, Freundschaft und Werte eine große Rolle spielen. Das Buch endet mit der Erinnerung des erwachsenen Pagnol an den Tod von Mutter, Bruder und bestem Freund (wichtige Personen des Buches) und der Gründung eines Filmstudios in eben dieser Gegend.
What a charming book! This volume contains two of Marcel Pagnol's memoirs of his idyllic childhood in France, from school in Marseilles to summers spent in the Provencal countryside. You hear the cicadas, smell the wild thyme, taste the cheese and wine and sausage. The narration is captivating and sounds so much like a nine-year-old boy. The cover shows the family lounging by a picnic blanket spread with bread and wine and fruit. That describes the book exactly -- warm, unhurried, and delightfully French.
Don't be put off by the hideous cover: this is one of the funniest books ever written. There's humour all the way through, but it's concentrated in the early parts of My Father's Glory. A lot of it depends on the perceived idylls of nature and childhood and the horror at the heart of both. Also, the set-piece with the junk-man compelled to charge them fifty francs is a masterpiece.it's also very well written, with tricolons galore and both parts constructed like novels, building to scenes of mild peril.
