https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75275.Of_Love_and_Hunger
An interesting novel set in 1939 in the months before the start of war.
The wiki entry is a one-liner and absolutley hilarious; "Richard Fanshawe sells vacuum cleaners for a living and has an unhappy love affair with Sukie, the wife of his friend." How to really sell a novel!
Bitingly satirical and bitter Maclaren-Ross dissects the whole set up.I picked this up again last night and found it worth a re-read.
Maclaren-Ross was a fascinating character, a real bohemian and denizen of Soho and Fitzrovia in the mid century.
Maclaren-Ross was the model for X.
Naturally the love affair isn't all plain sailing, but it is as much a novel about the people and the times as it is about the affair.
War looms, but again, it is the future, and today is another day to be got through.Julian Maclaren-Ross has written a good contribution to the very British genre of boarding house literature, along with John Braine's Room At The Top, Lynne Reid Bank's The L-Shaped Room, Muriel Spark's wonderfully low-key A Far Cry from Kensington and George Orwell's rather disappointing Keep the Aspidistra Flying among many other books, all of them a bit depressing.
Desde el comienzo, la novela aparece narrada con la convicción de una obra maestra. La voz nos va llevando y no lo podemos dejar. Extraordinario desarrollo de los personajes con breves pinceladas descriptivas, pero sobre todo a través de las escenas. Maravilloso.
On paper, Of Love and Hunger sounds like a mundane romance novel but Julian Maclaren-Ross’s witty and unique storytelling, crystal clear social realism, cracking dialogue and sharp characterisation turns it into something special.
Maclaren-Ross writes a compelling and fascinating portrait of this era of British history, showing us what life was like for working-class people in places like London and Brighton - a hardscrabble, hand-to-mouth existence, living in grimy rented rooming houses, being chased by creditors left and right, something which was very reflective of the author’s own difficult life as well.Despite that, the tone of the book is never maudlin or tries to make you feel sorry for the characters.
Fanshawe and Sukie are fully-realised, likeable characters who feel like real people and their up-and-down romance was convincing.
The story in front about vacuum salesmen and failed love is a bit lean, but the larger background themes remain frighteningly fresh and relevant.
Not exactly a compelling read, but I liked it overall.
Try to imagine Patrick Hamilton (between-the-wars English boardinghouse and pub settings; love-obsessed, socially marginalized narrator; political themes with a socialist-leaning viewpoint) mixed with James M.
Similar to all three of these authors in some aspects but, taken as a whole, not like any of them at all.
‘Looks a bastard,’ I said.
There was a picture in the paper.’”“’D’you reckon there’ll be war?’ Roper asked me.‘Certainly,’ I said.
Una novela extraordinaria. Richard y Sukie componen una historia inolvidable. Tan actual lo que le ocurre a Richard con su "trabajo", hoy podría ser repartidor. Está narrada con una pasión que resulta todo verosímil, y no la podés dejar. Le creo todo a esa primera persona. Llegué a conmoverme en muchos pasajes
If I taught my own class of English literature of the 1930s and 1940s I would tell my students to read this book together with 'The Slaves of Solitude' by Hamilton, 'Coming Up For Air' by Orwell, 'Put Out More Flags' by Waugh and 'The Ministry of Fear' by Greene.Julian Maclaren-Ross was an interesting chap - bit of a scoundrel if you ask me - with awful drinking habits, dandy clothes and sordid lodgings.
I came to this book having read Paul Willetts's biography of Soho legend, Julian Maclaren-Ross, "Fear and Loathing in Fitzrovia".
His was a hand to mouth existence, and - for anyone interested in the 1940s, and literary London - is well worth reading."Of Love and Hunger", Maclaren-Ross’s first full length novel, draws on his own experiences of living in Bognor Regis and working for Electrolux in Hove as a door to door vacuum salesman.
A minor classic.After reading this, I am really looking forward to the two other books by Julian Maclaren-Ross that I also purchased off the back of "Fear and Loathing in Fitzrovia" - "Selected Stories" and "Memoirs of the Forties".
Julian MacLaren-Ross, one of the post-war crust taking it upon himself to live a bohemian lifestyle until he found himself on his uppers, much like Derek Raymond would do in the 1980s and how Of Love and Hunger's protagonist Frances Fanshawe chose to live.
I can't help but be reminded, as others have been before me, of Patrick Hamilton, of Evelyn Waugh, of the less religious work of Graham Greene, Maclaren-Ross feeling like a bridging novel between the English writers of the 1930s and the so called angry young men that would come to the fore of British letters in the following decade, Osborne, Sillitoe, Barstow et al.
"She'd dropped an awful brick at the shop: somebody'd slammed the door behind her, and thinking it was Warren, she'd said: 'For Christ's sake make less din, you silly bitch.' Turned around and it was old Morecombe instead.
Not so hot, he being a pious old bastard and a churchwarden to boot.
Sort of old girl you'd see at a charity bazaar.
Straggly grey hair, face like the Wolf playing Grandma.
Magistral. Pocas novelas resultan tan verosímiles. Será porque es algo autobiográfica? Gran traducción además. Me sentí muy emocionado al llegar al final.


This novel really captures the despondency of London between the wars, those young folk living in hostels, in debt, newly hardboiled and cynical, who spent their wages on booze and cigarettes, the dancehalls and the movies on the weekends, the next war creeping up on them. This felt real, had great slangy dialogue, and a kind of disturbing coldness to it, but was pretty funny too in places. If you like that downbeat 30's London feel of say, Patrick Hamilton, or even Isherwood, you should defo give this a go.
From BBC radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:By Julian Maclaren-Ross. Darkly comic novel of 1930's low life.
Richard, a vacuum cleaner salesman in pre-war Britain, lives on the edge of poverty, hopping from cheap dig to cheaper dig in Brighton. He tries to escape this daily darkness by embarking on an affair with Sukie, his best friend's wife. The love story (and its final resolvement) isn't that compelling to read, but Maclaren-Ross manages to capture the atmosphere of Britain in its pre-war days. Literary style is crystal clear and surprisingly contemporary.
British sink literature by one of late 40's early 50's great London Soho Dandy figures Julian Maclaren-Ross. A traveling salesman that sells cleaners to housewifes that turns into a romance - it is almost a Morrissey type of romance. Remarkable talent that needs to be read.
For me, this side of the book was by far the most successful and at times I longed for Fanshawe to go back to work (and make me laugh again) instead of making love to Sukie in his doomed and predictable way.
In this respect, I am reminded of the 1940s novels of Nigel Balchin, which have the same split-level theme (work and romance), but in which the material deriving from the principal character's employment is always more compelling.
Not even the slightest hint of a mention of either the novel or its author could I find.
Maclaren-Ross drew me into a world of shabby boarding houses and the never-ending grind of trying to make ends meet with jobs that carry no prospects and are likely to end in dismissal and the humiliation of dealing with supercilious clerks at the local Labour Exchange; of trying to stay one step ahead of creditors seeking payment for providing board and cigarettes; of rain-washed piers and arcades offering tawdry entertainments; of ill-advised but consuming love affairs that are ultimately revealed to be meaningless and unsustainable entanglements.
Reminiscent to me of Patrick Hamilton (one of my all time favourite authors), Maclaren-Ross really contours up the atmosphere of pre-war England and it's people.
I love reading about this period in history as it holds a real appeal to me, especially the seedy underbelly of life at this time, so well conveyed here, as by Hamiton.
Frances Fanshawe the main protagonist really reminded me of someone I knew, his words were so poignant at times for me to read and this made me love the book all the more.
I will be seeking out more of Maclaren-Ross.
Written in 1947 for the Twitter generation! Economic sentences that beat the 140 character limit. Takes a few minutes to get into. After that - feels good.1930's seaside resort selling vacuum cleaners. A life evoked with brevity and clarity. Characters so well done I could see them. Not only the down and outs who sell 'Sucko'. Also the women: the landladies and the women our hero falls for - Sukie and Jackie.I will look for more by and about MacLaren-Ross.
Maclaren-Ross was the model for X. Trapnel, one of the mostmemorable characters in Anthony Powell's 12-volume A DANCE TO THE MUSIC OF TIME. Here is his only novel, an ironic, wised-up somewhat darkly comic tale of a vacuum-cleaner salesman in the slumping England of 1939. Somewhere between Evelyn Waugh and the Patrick Hamilton of HANGOVER SQUARE.
Excellent. Can thoroughly recommend this for character depiction and dialogue. The life of an ex-public schoolboy selling vacuum cleaners in setting of a seedy South coast resort town does not sound immediately enthralling, but it is.
First published in 1947.Abridged by Lauris Morgan-Griffiths Reader: Carl Prekopp Producer: Beth O'DeaMusic: The Touch Of Your Lips by Hildegarde.Listen here: http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/...
Similarities to Hangover Square.Vacuum cleaners and Bognor Regis... Need I say more?
A 'must read' both as a superbly written novel and social history. I didn't want the novek to end.
This is a truly beautiful book, the quality and richness of the writing is as good as anything else I have read.
"We'd never actually met, but I didn't like the look of her at all."Bognor Regis, 1939, vacuum-cleaner sales.
Excellent story line, wonderfully written. Held my attention from start to finish.
On a good day, canvassing door-to-door might yield four or five ‘dems’ (in-home demonstrations, carpets cleaned for free), and once you’re inside, there’s the question of convincing the customer to sign.
A cert, if I played it right.Miss Tuke didn’t seem a bad old girl either.
I had a woman in.’‘This dirt didn’t accumulate in two days, Miss Tuke.’ I told her.
Meanwhile, Fanshawe’s landlady is on the lookout for any signs of money.Mrs Fellows popped out of her den next to the dining-room as I was reading the letter.
