https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76972.The_Secret_Panel
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
I like hardy boys books, but this is one of my all-time favorites.
I read a book called The Secret Panel and it is one of the Hardy Boys books. It was a pretty good book and it was full of action. Sometimes there were too many things going on but overall it was good! I really liked how they involved Chet a lot in this book. Chet is one of the funniest characters in the book in my opinion. He is described as heavy and always likes to eat. But he helps the boys with there sleuthing.  The book overall was the Hardy Boys chasing these people. There were many times
It was a pretty good book and it was full of action.
Sometimes there were too many things going on but overall it was good!
I really liked how they involved Chet a lot in this book.
The book overall was the Hardy Boys chasing these people.
Overall it was a very action packed book and I was always reading something interesting.
One reason I liked this book was because everything was described pretty good.
It was kind of unpredictable because the boys were always moving and going different places to try and catch the bad guys.
When in my childhood I was busy rummaging through the pages of nancy drew mysteries, few of my friends devoured Hardy Boys series.These books are printed by the same publishers and hold a lot of similarities.
I was constantly suggested by my friends to give a read to any of the hardy boys books, But fortunately I never had a chance to do so.
I stumbled upon one of the Hardy Boys books recently and finally decided to give it a chance.Now coming to the story,The mystery had a lot of action and adventure and a whole lot of similarities with the Nancy Drew series.
I’d read this book just for the part where Frank hides in the back of the criminals’ car disguised as mustached man with glasses. When discovered he puts on such a great act that I rate this book 4 stars. I won’t give anything else away just read this one.
After Frank and Joe find out that a man they helped out of a car accident may be impersonating the late owner of Mead Mansion, their investigation leads to even more answers to a mission by their father! Dixon will please fans with this amusing entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
There is something unsettling to this day about the house in this book, with no door knobs or hinges... it's just kinda vaguely creepy under your skin at times. Good story. This one was written by Harriet Adams because Leslie McFarlane found other work and could finally turn down this stuff.
They certainly don't make books for boys like they used to! Don't hesitate to buy any original Hardy Boy's books you can find!
4.5 stars. Guest review by Kyle (age 8): it was a good book, I liked the surprise ending. Not my favorite Hardy Boy's book but very good.
Not sure what I can say about this series that I haven't already said...
Picking up on the clues, thinking it all through and challenging yourself to crack the case before the characters do..Honestly, this wasn't that kind of book.I am a fan of Nancy Drew...not the biggest, as i haven't read close to all of the books...but i have read quite a few(love them!), and own several of the games, too.
My siblings(especially my 8-year-old brother, Princeton) have become interested, as well, through watching me play the games.Knowing that the Hardy Boys are considered to be the boy version of Nancy Drew, i pointed them out to Princeton when we visited the library, and he picked out this one....I actually want to give it a better rating, just cause i had a great time reading it with him...!
Pulled this book out to read while vacationing at Lake Champlain but read something else I found on the shelves at the Lake. I really wanted something to take me back to when I was younger and the Hardy Boys were part of that time. This book had all of the classic HB elements - their Aunt, the roadster, friends, the Sleuth, help from Dad, dangerous warnings, puzzles to solve, etc.
I read the old 30's version...jolly good fun!I never read these when I was a kid so they are just waiting to be enjoyed in my second childhood...which seems to be starting now. Not a brain bender but a good companion to the Dana Girls and Nancy Drew (I think, have not started reading Nancy Drew yet...but soon!) Have to admit, the cover art on the old editions is half the fun!
I found this one interesting. The idea of a house that seemingly is without keys for anything is intriguing. The mystery is interesting and there are a couple of side mysteries just to keep the pot stirred. For those who like substantial mysteries this my disappoint but for the child who is reading, or the adult wanting a quick read then this will in all likelihood satisfy.
Even as a child I had to suspend my disbelief to read the Hardy Boy's mysteries. I mean really, two teenage boys not only running around solving dangerous mysteries but being encouraged to do so by their father? Other than that, the plot is good and the mystery is engrossing.
Another really exciting adventure. My boys loved it and it was a good one to read out loud. There were a few more new vocabulary words than usual in this book compared with other Hardy Boy originals. My favorite new word for my boys in this one was 'fracas'.
When I was a kid, my dad found a copy of this up in our attic. Unfortunately, the last 5-10 pages were torn out and I never finished it. I bought it a few years ago and finally read it with my son. What a fun little mystery.
In which Mr. Hardy is a prick, Chet feeds someone else for a change, and apparently any teenager can go ahead and just buy a boat.
Classic concept brought into the Hardy's.
One of my favorite childhood series.
The first one I ever read.
Takes me back to my childhood. I read everyone of these.
Dixon, Franklin W.
The Hardy Boys end up in the midst of a mystery after helping a stranger.
My book was published in 1969 and has the 1969 cover.
loved it!
read when I was 10 through 13
Oldtime vocabulary includes fellow, swell, and gee.
Ii want audio books
