https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149403.The_Mark_of_the_Horse_Lord
All I can say is, "Sure looks like a book for adults to me!" No, no.
I'm sorry, but this lady did not write like any YA fare I'm familiar with "these days." A real "writer's writers," she goes for deeper descriptions, more complex sentences, and all manner of historically-accurate terminology (bothy?
Anyway, all you need know is that it is a "gladiator-to-riches" story in which Phaedrus is plucked from the Corstopitum and cast in the look-alike role of Horse Lord -- or King of the Dalraidians.
This is shocking for me with a Rosemary Sutcliff book, especially one a lot of other people loved, but I didn't really like this.
I didn't much like Phaedrus, which helped, but I'm sure I would've got to like him in the normal way of things with one of Sutcliff's books, but nope.
Maybe it's the fact that I've been working on Sword at Sunset for my dissertation for months and either I'm burnt out on Sutcliff or this just doesn't compare, or even a bit of both.Plus, the central theme being Bad Woman Needs Putting Down and Matriarchal Rule Is Inferior To Patriarchal Rule Because The Menz Say So is a bit...
The Mark of the Horse Lord is about a freed gladiator, Phaedrus, in second-century Britain, whose accidental resemblance to the king of the northern tribe of Dalriada involves him in a plot to replace that king and enter into a war with a rival tribe, the Caledones.As with many of Rosemary Sutcliff’s novels, The Mark of the Horse Lord is beautifully written, her characterization subtle, her sympathies even.
Her respect is as great for the Roman fort commander, Titus Hilarius, as it is for Phaedrus.The main conflict of the tale involves a clash of cultures, as it often does in Sutcliff’s fiction.
I am fully aware that I just read this book in September and that reading it again is adding nothing to my reading challenge and that the whole of life is just a shout in the void but I had a very good reason:Conory and his cat
If I were sent to a deserted island with as many books as there are fingers on my right hand, this would be one of them.
I found this book in its original edition in a small town library over twenty years ago and have sought it out in every library in every town I've been in since.
Its that kind of story.
If the heart of a good story is the soul-journey taken by the main character, then this book deserves a place in the canon of great literature because Phaedros' journey is truly epic, starting tightly coiled within his own needs, spiraling outward with each challenge he faces, finally culminating in the most magnificently expansive act a man can perform.
At first he had been wild with loathing of his new life, but in four years it had become part of him, so that whether he hated or loved it no longer mattered. It ran in his veins like the fiery barley spirit that the tribesmen brewed: the roar of the crowd that set one’s pulses jumping, the warmth of sunlight and the sweetness of cheap wine and the fierce pleasure in one’s own strength and skill, heightened by the knowledge that tomorrow, next week, in an hour’s time, it might all end on the sq
I re-read this to fulfill the 2017 Popsugar reading challenge category, "book you loved as a child." I first read this when I was around 10-12 yo, and I remember two scenes clearly: the part where Phaedrus pursues and captures his wife on horseback, and the ending.
But this was different; if he wished to catch the Princess Murna, then he would have to hunt her in good earnest; and pity twinged in him, not for her, the She-Wolf’s daughter, but for the weary mare she rode....The girl had turned with a cry of fury and lashed him across the face with her horse-rod; but he had her reins and they were racing along the flank of the bog, perilously locked together, floundering in and out of solid ground and sinking pocket, but drawing steadily away from the livid greenness of the hungry mire.
Naturally, this does not make me feel unsympathetic to her.There are several instances in which Sutcliff allows her characters to have a less black-and-white view of matriarchy and patriarchy, but the main way she makes up for the Evil Life-Sucking Queen is to have her daughter, Murna, be extremely awesome.
I am well convinced that Sutcliff wrote Conory, the best friend of the king whom Phaedrus is replacing, as the replaced-king's lover, and that all of the other characters know that, perhaps so well that it would be redundant to actually say anything about it (never mind 1960s publishing conventions).
Phaedrus' time as The Horse Lord over the next year show his growth from a friendless young man with not much reason to live and no place to belong into a worthy king of a loyal, passionate tribe of Celts.Sutcliff is a tremendous writer, effortlessly transporting the reader to the era so that both Romans, who are tangential characters, and the native peoples that they subdue and keep at bay come to life.
Although Phaedrus is typical YA age (20),and his struggles for identity and place in the adult world worthy of YA fiction, the situations that he faces and the decisions he must make are, of a necessity, very grave and weighty.
Interesting change from Sutcliff's other Roman Britain books in that it focuses on conflicts between British tribes outside of Roman-occupied territory. But it feels like it's all war and warriors - too many battle scenes, not enough world- and character-building. The battle lines are also too clear-cut, and most of the enemies too faceless, or caricatures.
Unlike most of Sutcliff's novels set in Roman Britain, Phaedrus, the protagonist of The Mark of the Horse Lord, isn't a Roman soldier; instead, he's a half-British ex-gladiator, son of a Greek wine merchant and a slave woman, who lived his whole life as a slave until being freed after winning a fight in the arena.
This isn't my favorite Sutcliff; Phaedrus is a less sympathetic protagonist than the various members of the family in the Dolphin Ring saga, hardened by the years in the arena as he is, although he does become more sympathetic as the story goes on.
The Prisoner of Zenda in 3rd century Dal Riata with some Robert Graves nonsense thrown in
That said, I can see why some people hate it (I know my mum would; our tase in books is *very* different) - the weird, inexplicable bonds Phaedrus feels with Midir, Conory and Murna would usually annoy me too, because I'm cynical like that, but in Sutcliff's work, they do tend to fit into the half-supernatural world she creates and seem utterly plausible.But the *detail*, oh my god.
I swear with careful reading you could pass an exam on Roman Britain (using the term historically - obviously the Dalriads and Caledones are pretty far from being Romanised) just from Sutcliff's books.
Not only was she a fine writer, but she made "children's" books, YA, a marvelously adult experience without overwhelming the young reader.
She writes exclusively historical fiction, from Iron Age Britain to the Middle Ages, often founding her tales on real events.
At 14, no one had ever hit me between the eyes with real life in that fashion.
Finally, in a used bookstore in Tacoma, WA, I found it, and it made my whole day.If I could only take 5 books onto a desert island with me, this would be one of them.
As I said in my review of Frontier Wolf, I read these two books back-to-back, and the combined effect was devastating.
In some sense, they are both about decisions that make a man who he is; and these decisions are often forced by circumstances, with a bad choice and a worse choice.At the very beginning of this book, Red Phaedrus, an Arena gladiator, must kill his closest friend in order to survive.
That should give you an idea of what sort of things are at stake in this book!
This is also one of her rare books in which women have more of a role, and I loved reading of the warrior women of the Dalriadain.
Began with death, ended with death, lots of death in between... just my kind of book. It is a good book, I promise, just set in Roman Britain, which is a deathly sort of place.
The characters are fairly uncomplicated - you like the good guys and you dislike the bad guys - and the book ends with a noble act of self sacrifice.
There isn't much to dislike.The story is set in Scotland at the time of the Romans, and covers the ins and outs of a border tribe that is located just north of what we know today as Glasgow.
We are left wanting to know more about the unresolved issues, and the noble end was deeply unsatisfying.Over all I enjoyed the book.
Sutcliff's books are non-magical and as historically accurate as possible, but still her stories remind me of Tolkien in that they are so well-written that children eat them up and don't mind all the challenging vocab words.
Many heroes, to be as heroic as possible, should of course sacrifice themselves for the tribe.
But there are other heroes, like the main character in this book, who are spectacular leaders, who serve their tribe better alive than dead.
She failed to make be believe Phaedrus would best serve his tribe by dying than by living.
"Sutcliff writes with an amazing capacity for detail, creating descriptions of the landscapes and minutia of Phaedrus’s world that help to paint a vivid picture of the action and story going on.
I really enjoyed the read, and was a little surprised to see that it is categorized as a story for children due to the amount of violent content and the rather bleak ending.
This is another high quality edition from The Folio Society, as has come to be expected, and I find it sits in its place nicely with the other books from their catalog." - https://thepastduereview.com/2018/11/...
My first experience of Rosemary Sutcliff was when I read ‘Sun Horse, Moon Horse’ as a primary school child.
This book, set in a time and place so foreign to my own, that was mythical but also factual, absolutely fascinated me.
I have read many more of Sutcliff’s books since that initial encounter, and I have never been disappointed.
‘The Mark of the Horse Lord’ is an outstanding example of her craft which I thoroughly enjoyed.
And it would be true to say that the poignant, yet fitting, ending will haunt me for quite a considerable amount of time.
I anyone old enough to remember that creaky but charming adventure romance, The Prisoner of Zenda? If Anthony Hope could rise from the grave, he'd have a juicy case of plot plagiarism to wage with Rosemary Sutcliff. It's that old trope where someone notices: gosh-you-look-just-like-our-missing-prince! Let's-pretend-you-are-and-get-rid-of-the-tyrant! Lots of spear burnishing, battles and manly pursuits ensue. Ho-hum.
The author knew just how to time things to bring on the angst. Fabulous story that should be a movie. Maybe it is and I don't know about it. The ending was fantastic as was the whole book.
I enjoyed it, especially in light of the fact it was written by a woman and published originally in 1967! Historical fiction.
Finally finished! Great book, just read between lots of other things
This book made me mad.It starts out as this incredible adventure, with this die hard, unconquerable hero, and all through the book the story is fast paced and action packed, leaving you turning just one more page!Until the end. Really?!I personally think the author had writer's block and was just sick of the story. Because that was the worst ending EVER! BOO!
Murna, again, didn't resonate as strongly as I wanted her to - she had some great moments, but at other times it was rather hard to see where she was coming from and what her motivations were.
Whereas here, Liadhan is sold incredibly short, and her scenes lack all kinds of magic, and it feels like she's written that way because she's a female attempting to seize power in a man's world and being punished for it.
I really wanted to like this book, because I love Rosemary Sutcliff so much.
This new edition of The Mark of the Horse Lord from Chicago Review Press brings one of Sutcliff's classic works of historical fiction back into print 50 years after its original publication, and it's a stunner.
In this story of a gladiator from a frontier town who ends up as chief of the Dalriadain (better known to us as the Scots), both Roman and British culture are brought vividly, savagely to life.I don't want to say too much more about the plot, because I want you to have the pleasure of having it unfold according to Sutcliff's intentions; it is masterfully done.
There's a lovely scene with the women's war dance.The plot is entertaining -- I always like undercover plots -- and, as I said, the characters are compelling, even when (or perhaps especially when) the time comes that Phaedrus has to confront the Romans.
well, if you've read a Sutcliff novel before, you should know that she doesn't write the happiest of endings most of the time.
(Given that the novel starts out with Phaedrus being forced to kill his best friend in order to win his freedom in the arena, you can tell you're not in for a happy book.) But the way it ends is fitting, really, and I didn't actually think it was depressing at all.
As Midir, Phaedrus is charged with reestablishing his kingship and the tribe's rule in the land.
In this world of superstition and ancient ritual, of fierce loyalties and intertribal rivalry, Phaedrus finds companionship and love, and something more - a purpose and a meaning for his life as he comes to fully understand the significance of the Mark of the Horse Lord."My Review: Well I really am not sure what to think about this book.
Perhaps due to the writing style and the information usage, I wasn't able to really get involved with the story or the characters.
This was a great book to read in front of the fire on a cold night in January when the mood called for a good story set long long ago in a place far far away involving people who lived very differently from anyone I’ve ever known.
While the story she created was a good one, what I like the best about this book was the mood she evoked and sustained all the way through to the end.
Every once in a while it’s fun to read a book simply to be carried away into another world….and this one definitely did that for me.
Another great one by Sutcliff.When Phaedrus earns his freedom in the arena, he is offered the opportunity by one Midir, an exiled prince, to take his place as prince of the Dalriads, a tribe of horsemen living on the Northern edge of the Roman empire.
The result is a book that locks the reader firmly in the human element and refuses to allow one to get caught up in majestic action or the race for the crown.
As he develops, he slowly impersonates Midir less and less, growing into a real leader who puts the welfare of the Dalriads before his own.A great, encouraging, and motivating read.
