https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26245853-the-last-mile
I am new to this author having only read a rather weak Christmas story by him prior to reading Memory Man and now, The Last Mile.
If these two books are any indication of the rest of his stuff then I have a lot of reading enjoyment ahead of me.Amos Decker is a brilliant character, a man with a perfect memory, imperfect social skills and no tact and yet is still very likable.
I think there are a lot more stories left in Amos Decker.
Compulsive reading!
The Last Mile's plot is rehashed, and many familiar ideas and objects are about this book right from the start.
Baldacci being Baldacci, i.e the author whose thrillers have wowed me more often than not, takes these familiar things and gives them his own personal spin.Melvin Mars' case is rooted in violence in the South.
That's where Amos Decker steps in.I am used to the twists that abound in this book, and it was more satisfying than dizzying in keeping track of them.
The average thriller can come in many shapes.
Baldacci's balancing act made me give this book 4 stars.
For the record, it stands on its own just fine, but I suggest starting at the beginning (as I do with any series).Football, in fact, that is the reason Decker, just picked to be on an FBI special task force, wants to take on a particular case.
The similarities are impossible for Decker to overlook (well, let's be honest - given his condition, it's impossible for Decker to overlook much of anything), and he convinces the reluctant head of the FBI team to take on Mars's case.The stakes for getting to the truth are high; in one outcome, an innocent man could be executed.
Amos Decker is on his way to Washington, D.
When he hears a news report about a former college football star who was on death row for murdering his parents and just escaped execution when someone suddenly confessed to the crime, it's no surprise that Decker wants this to be the first project of the task force.
This is great storytelling with a very intriguing character in Decker at the forefront.
It also has a strong supporting cast and I especially liked the man of focus in the investigation, Melvin Mars, who I couldn't help but root for throughout.

No matter the plot, you know you're in for a good time with Baldacci.Well-rounded characters, most of them anyway, interesting backgrounds, a cliché here and there, some predictable stuff, kept-me-on-the-edge-of-my-seat suspense. All included.
I like when there's a lot of twist and turns and its not easy to figure out.
I just love Amos Decker and like the descriptions that David Baldacci gives of how Amos brain works after the injury he received from his first and last NFL game.
I enjoyed Amos and Melvin's relationship throughout the book.
That Amos said that Melvin telling him that he was his best friend topped his first and Last NFL game.
I hope in the next book in the Amos Decker series that Melvin Mars shows up in it.
I'm speechless at how amazing David is as an author. The intricacies of this story and how everything came together at the end is astounding. Amos is officially an all time favorite character.
Amos feels compelled to find the truth regarding the crimes that have kept Melvin in jail for the past 20 years.
At times, things become very dangerous as they get closer to the answers that they are looking for.The way this story was laid out really kept me guessing.
I can't wait to see what case Amos will be asked to solve next!I received a review copy of this book from Grand Central Publishing for the purpose of providing an honest review.Initial ThoughtsWhen I first got my hands on this book, I decided to "look" at it....and didn't put it down for 100 pages.
Great story with interesting characters make this a great read.
3/5; 3 stars; BI struggled to settle on a rating for this book. On the one hand, I really like the character, Amos Decker. On the other hand, there were so many places that the characters were one dimensional and like something pulled from a bag of 'standard interchangeable actors' that the book lost some of its impact. I enjoyed the mystery and the idea of this convoluted cold case. However, I found the book to be a bit long winded and sprinkled with one too many implausible scenarios. So yeah- there is my wishy washy summation.
This was interesting from the start!
A man about to be executed and another person confesses leaving one hell of a journey.
I could not have guessed how this was going to go until about 85% through.
It was so entertaining.
I am hoping Melvin joins Amos and his team full time because I found him and Amos very compatible.
I am so glad I got around to starting this series because these two books so far have been beyond amusing to read.
I will be checking out more of his books and series very soon.
My quick and simple overall: highly entertaining and full of mystery!
Decker wants to take on this case despite the fact that there isn't really a case to take since Mars is going free.
Decker is simply want to know the truth.I found the book really compelling because the story took so many interesting turns that I never expected.
I loved not knowing what was going on and just getting a piece of the puzzle now and then and the best part is when the whole picture started to take form and you read how Decker and the rest slowly getting to the truth.
While it may not be necessary to read this first it may help introduce Amos Decker and his situation.Melvin Mars is counting down the hours before his execution.
Amos Decker, newly hired on an FBI special task force, hears the story and is struck by the similarities in their stories.
And in each case another suspect came forward, years after the killing, to confess to the crime.
Did the man who confessed to killing Melvin's parents actually commit the crime?
And in so doing they discover that there is more to the story than just the murder of Melvin Mars parents.
Amos Decker is driving to Quantico to join an FBI team as an outsider with his extraordinary abilities when he hears about a stay of execution for Melvin Mars, an ex-football player like himself, convicted of the murder of his parents.
Amos manages to convince his team to take on this case, which takes him down south to deal with powerful enemies, racism, and age-old secrets best left alone.
Amos identifies with Mars because both played football (Mars ran over Decker repeatedly when they played in college) and both lost their families; however, Amos has to be convinced of Mars' innocence.
The Last Mile, David Baldacci's 2nd book in his Amos Decker Series is a compelling and complex mystery filled with conspiracies, racial injustices and some pretty evil characters.I liked this book more than the 1st, The Memory Man https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...The characters are well developed and Decker is desperate to saving a man on death row that he believes is innocent. Well paced plot filled with twists and turns and some unexpected surprises.A good read.
The good news is that Baldacci's latest uniquely talented former cop, Amos Decker, is once again leading the way, only this time he is less personally involved with the eventual fallout, thus making for more clarity of focus.
The Last Mile sees Baldacci take things a step further with Decker becoming part of an unusual FBI task force based at Quantico which combines the myriad talents of FBI personnel and civilians with specialists skills ( Decker and journalist Alex Jamison).
Ditch journalist Alex, keep Melvin Mars and let us await a third encounter with the intriguing memory man, Decker.
Returning to the Amos Decker series, Baldacci offers readers another look into the fantastic abilities of his protagonist while handling a case that is riddled with issues.
Baldacci introduces the idea of the FBI task force, which could also inject a collection of new characters on which the stories can build and this can only bode well, as long as Baldacci does not let any of them wither on the vine.
Baldacci works with what he has and builds a wonderful story on it, keeping the reader guessing for at least part of the novel.
This is the second book in the Amos Decker series by David Baldacci.
It isn't my favorite series, but there is still plenty of things to like about it.
I liked this book better than the first one in this series.
His memory/brain injury was also handled so much better in this one, but he was still able to make some incredible leaps by skipping the steps that mere mortals (normal people with lower functioning brains) would need.
No doubt, this author can write a great story with lots of twists and turns.
My heart melted a little and I seriously ended up loving this one.
I ESPECIALLY loved these twists and turns even more from this book and I even had a theory come true!
Usually when I read Baldacci, I think one way and he turns completely around haha.
So this story was of course from the description had quite a few similarities and a few differences to MEMORY MAN but the twists and turns with the outcome of this was BRILLIANTLY executed and just so much fun to listen to.
THE LAST MILE(Amos Decker: 2) Written by David Baldacci(Narrated by Kyf Brewer and Orlagh Cassidy)2016; Grand Central Publishing (656 Pages) (Audio length: 11 hours and 49 minutes)Genre: series, suspense, mystery, FBI RATING: ★★★★/1/2Amos Decker is back and ready to join the FBI special task force and solve some cold cases.
As Mars joins them when he is pardoned they start to unravel the truth behind his mom and dad's murder...but it soon becomes apparent that there are people who want to keep the truth hidden.When Memory Man ended I was excited to read the next book, especially knowing that the FBI was involved!
'The Last Mile' is an excellent follow on to 'Memory Man'. It shares some common themes with John Grisham's 'The Chamber' but I consider 'The Last Mile' to be the better book. Amos Decker and team are great in this book with plenty of development as far Amos is concerned. His struggle to get past his disability to connect with other people is very well portrayed. The Last Mile has the right mix of pathos, humour and action. This is a book that is hard to put down.
0.5 stars Average read. It is a letdown after first one. Some excerpts :Decker didn’t like deceit. He didn’t like lies. He didn’t like bad acts with no consequences. People did wrong, that was a given. And that was their choice. And they needed to suffer the repercussions of those bad choices.-----
Deftly plotted for the most part, and the central character is engaging, but the author just isn't a very good writer, and it shows, especially in stilted dialogue and implausible actions. This kind of book is good for a light read, and I did finish it to see what happened, but the clumsy writing earns the novel only two stars.
Furthermore, Decker is intrigued by several parallels between himself and Mars: Both were collegiate football players for major universities, both had their playing careers cut short, both had their lives ruined after their families were murdered, and in both cases, someone came forward to confess to the killings after an extended period of time.
While I still prefer both Will Robie and John Puller, I have to admit that Baldacci has progressed and developed Amos Decker quite well in his second book, and I’m very intrigued to see where he takes the character next.
David Baldacci  returns following (2015)  Memory Man,  landing on my  Top 10 Books of 2015  where we met an unforgettable man, Amos Decker.
In THE LAST MILE  (#2 Amos Decker) the hero/FBI detective, meets a man on death row- with more in common with his own past than he could ever imagine.
He learns of a black man, a legendary college football player, an NFL draft pick, he knew in his past football years---until, his career came to an end, when he was convicted of a violent crime.
This man’s past is shockingly close to Decker's own--he is intrigued.Melvin Mars  was a rising football star in the small Texas southern town.
In last year’s Memory Man, David Baldacci introduced new series protagonist Amos Decker, who suffered a violent collision in his first professional NFL game, which jolted his brain and left him with an incurable mental condition: hyperthymesia.
In Memory Man, Decker finally solved the case that tore apart his life, and was subsequently offered an opportunity to join an elite FBI task force focused on cold cases.
He took it: and The Last Mile centres around that task force’s first case.Convicted murder Melvin Mars is counting down his final hours.
A heisman nominee, a murderer and a death row inmate has one thing in common; Melvin Mars.
He's a man on death row for murdering his parents, an interracial couple, twenty years ago.
He's an inmate on death row in Alabama and he's claiming that he killed Melvin's parents.
Amos Decker has been asked by the FBI to assist in resolving cold cases but once he hears about this case on the radio, he wants to investigate it and convinces the team (Bogart, Davenport, Jamison & Mulligan) to take on the case.So much has happened in twenty years and there are many unanswered questions but this case goes from the murder of Melvin's parents to the murder of Regina Montgomery (the spouse of Charles Montgomery) to the abduction of Davenport to a couple of Civil Rights cases in Cain, Mississippi where the NAACP & a baptist church was bombed.
but I'll keep it at 4 stars on GR, mainly because whether I listen to or read his novels, that ability of keeping me hooked from start to finish remains uniquely Baldacci and equally strong.
This is my third book by him and the second Amos Decker story I've enjoyed.
Decker's turning out to be a sui generis among fictional investigators and one worthy enough to follow.
Also, I think the prospect of solving the mystery hinges on what I feel was an improbable act: the initials of two important characters on a wall, who are trying to live anonymously?!:: shrug :: me no care, I was hooked and it was worth my reading time.
The Last MileDavid Baldacci is truly the best author ever. The man just writes better and better stories with each passing book. This book was incredible. I really don't know how he does it, the hardest part is waiting for the next one.
