https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6514.The_Bell_Jar
And though Plath never really described many characters as to their personality, I began to feel I knew them all intimately.Strangely enough, if you remember in my last review, what bothered me most about The Good Earth did not bother me in The Bell Jar. Because the Esther, the character we are following, is slowly descending into madness, time no longer matters.
Very reminscent of Perks.If you feel you're suffering from depression, madness, confusion about topics pertaining to society and sex, or just looking for a good read, The Bell Jar is definetly the book for you.
While she encountered precious little understanding in both her personal life (Mrs. Greenwood's inability to see her daughter's problem as her daughter's problem instead of wondering what she did wrong just rubbed my modern sensibilities the wrong way) and from the medical professionals who were tasked with helping her rise above the sinking despair she couldn't escape, I finished this fictionalized semi-autobiography 50 years after its publication with a keener understanding of what Sylvia Plath endured than I'm comfortable with.
there once was a girl from the bay statewho tried to read finnegan's wake.it made her so ill,she took loads of pills.james joyce has that knack to frustrate.come to my blog!
There is this scene in Chapter 10 of The Bell Jar where Esther Greenwood decides to write a novel. "My heroine would be myself, only in disguise. She would be called Elaine. Elaine. I counted the letters on my fingers. There were six letters in Esther, too. It seemed a lucky thing." I cannot help wondering, is that what Sylvia Plath thought when she wrote The Bell Jar? Did she, like Esther, sit on a breezeway in an old nightgown waiting for something to happen? Is that why she chose the name Est
There is this scene in Chapter 10 of The Bell Jar where Esther Greenwood decides to write a novel.
I cannot help wondering, is that what Sylvia Plath thought when she wrote The Bell Jar?
For luck?It's impossible to read The Bell Jar and not be affected, knowing what happened to Plath.
There's hardly any comfort even when Esther is freed from the bell jar; on the contrary, it's a brutal reminder that this book is ultimately, part fiction.Plath's poetic prowess shows through her writing - especially the descriptions.
"I saw the years of my life spaced along a road in the form of telephone poles, threaded together by wires.
It’s been a number of years since I last read Sylvia Plath’s Bell Jar. What I’d remembered most was how well Plath had established the mood for this story by weaving the electrocutions of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg with the mental breakdown of her heroine, Esther Greenwood.
But the story is definitely about Esther, her ambition, and her own feelings of inadequacy, even though (viewed from the outside) Esther would be seen as a success.
The repeated questions (after she is being treated for her depression) about who will marry her now only reinforce the notion that for the intelligent and talented Esther Greenwood, there had never been a good way to extricate herself from a trap that she had always seen coming.
وكانت فكرة أن أقتل نفسي قد رسخت في عقلي بهدوء مثل شجرة أو زهرةـــــــــــــــــ  في عام 1963 كانت سيلفيا بلاث قد حسمت أمرهاأطلت على طفليها اللذين لا يبلغ عمر أكبرهما العامين بعدأطعمتهما وتركت مزيدا من الطعام واللبن فتحت النوافذ عن آخرها ثم تهادت بخفة إلى المطبخ وسدت كل منافذ الهواءوفتحت صمامات الغازوأرقدت رأسها المعذّب المختنق بناقوسه الزجاجي في الفرن وتركت نفسها تتسرب ببطء إلى العالم الآخر;;;;;;;;;;;من الصعب أن تقرأ كتابا لكاتب انتحر دون أن تبحث به عن كل الاشارات التي قد تدل على أنه سيفعلها قر
في عام 1963 كانت سيلفيا بلاث قد حسمت أمرها‏أطلت على طفليها اللذين لا يبلغ عمر أكبرهما العامين بعدأطعمتهما وتركت مزيدا من الطعام واللبن ‏فتحت النوافذ عن آخرها ثم تهادت بخفة إلى المطبخ وسدت كل منافذ الهواءوفتحت صمامات الغاز‏وأرقدت رأسها المعذّب المختنق بناقوسه الزجاجي‏ في الفرن‏ وتركت نفسها تتسرب ببطء إلى العالم الآخر‏;;;;;;;;;;;من الصعب أن تقرأ كتابا لكاتب انتحر دون أن تبحث به ‏عن كل الاشارات التي قد تدل على أنه سيفعلها قريبارغم أن ذلك يبدو طفوليا وساذجالا يمكنك أن تفصل بين الرواية وسيلفيا‏لا يمكنك تقييمها تقييما أدبيا محايدا ‏فهي شهقات سيلفيا الأخيرة قبل اقدامها على الانتحار;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
I've never shied away from depressing material, but there's a difference between the tone serving the story, and a relentlessly depressing work that goes entirely nowhere. I know it can be viewed as a glimpse into Plath's mind, but I would rather do a lot of things, some quite painful, than read this again. It hurt to get through it, and I think it's self-indulgent and serves no real artistic purpose. Which is truly a shame, as I love a lot of Plath's poetry.
He eventually recovered and remarried, led a normal life, but this book was kind of frightening to me, remembering that time, the atmosphere of such a place, and the stigma of mental illness.I myself suffer and am on meds, but never have I felt suicidal, I just don’t understand that frame of mind.
Esther (Sylvia), I identified with her on some of her feelings, she was quite humorous, and I am sure that in the 50’s, it was very hard to live with such terrible depression.
Hard to read knowing what eventually happened to her, but I’m glad I finally did read it.
I’m sure many of us at times feel we are stuck under the bell jar.
Eventually it’s the doubt that remains a constant companion while one is busy gathering shreds of a life which apparently turns into something unexpected, something frail, something blurred, something sour, something like sitting under a Bell Jar. There are no promises to keep and no expectations to be fulfilled except a small desire survives somewhere, a desire wishing for wings of freedom to gather their strength again to soar high in the sky and letting the old brag of heart to leap out and declare in a booming voice – I am, I am, I am.Another book, another writer and another winner.
I doubt Sylvia Plath thought to herself, "This semi-autobiographical novel will be a poignant look into my adolescence once I attain a cult following for sticking my head in an oven." Or, "I hope my book becomes regarded as a seminal work of postwar ennui and oppressive gender roles."In  The Savage God,  A.
The Catcher in the Rye), but to some extent the resonance of the book is limited by its roots in specific social contexts (e.g., the gender roles) and its emphasis on describing a state of mind that is very hard to communicate and to which few people can relate directly (e.g., the depression).
I think we ought to read only the kind of books that wound and stab us. If the book we are reading doesn't wake us up with a blow on the head, what are we reading it for? ...we need the books that affect us like a disaster, that grieve us deeply, like the death of someone we loved more than ourselves, like being banished into forests far from everyone, like a suicide. A book must be the axe for the frozen sea inside us.— Franz Kafka; January 27, 1904I saw my life branching out before me like th
A book must be the axe for the frozen sea inside us.— Franz Kafka; January 27, 1904I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story.
The thing that triggered this series of fortunate events was a review by a friend, which made me want to give Plath’s writing another try, because I had sensed many times that she was an author I would certainly love – inexplicable hunches.
I postponed the process many times since I didn’t want to deal with it, the easiest path evoking an infantile self-preservation, considering the world as an enormous rug where one can hide every unpleasant feeling, all the mirrors whose reflections we don’t dare to acknowledge.
A twenty-chapter novel based on Plath's own experience of breakdown in college, The Bell Jar charts the deterioration of protagonist Esther Greenwood's mental stability while interning for a fast-paced fashion magazine one summer in New York City.
The first-person retrospective narration juxtaposes ironic detachment and impassioned lyricism: Esther swings from cooly assessing the insurmountable adversity she faces as a woman living in a sexist society to recounting the fits of existential despair she suffered the year she lost control over her life.
Autobiographical as the story is, the book's much more than an unself-aware reflection of Plath's life or an ominous foreshadowing of her death.
Alloggia in un albergo insieme ad altre ragazze, cerca insistentemente di liberarsi della sua verginità, vissuta come parte dell’oppressione, fa vita modaiola, aspetta di essere ammessa a un corso di scrittura creativa, sta vivendo il suo rito iniziatico, accumula incontri ed esperienze, ma più di tutto accumula scollamento.Infatti, ciò che dovrebbe essere non corrisponde a ciò che sente: e quando scopre di non essere stata ammessa, si libera di tutti i suoi vestiti in una magnifica scena dal forte sapore simbolico, e inizia la sua caduta, comincia a disgregarsi (la “smarginatura” di Elena Ferrante).Qui inizia la seconda fase, col ritorno a casa, a Boston, percepita come luogo molto provinciale, nella casa di famiglia, a stretto contatto con la mamma, e si sa che l’amore è responsabile di molti misfatti – in questo caso, è certo che la presenza materna, il suo modo di voler bene alla figlia, la completa integrazione dell’adulta alle regole imposte dalla società, offrono a Esther una buona spinta verso un tentativo di suicidio e quello che poi succede nella terza fase.
This is a disturbingly frightening journey through the mind of a young girl suffering from depression in the 1950's.
How far we have come in the last few decades in recognizing depression as a mental illness and treating it with much less radical techniques than electric shock.
Ester Greenwood is 19 and her future is just starting to unfold.
Yet, day by day, she is questioning herself: her capabilities, her confidence, who she is, and what does it mean.
Her thoughts turn dark and helplessness envelopes her in a tight, downward spiral.
Plath captures the emotional characterization of depression and the utter helplessness that accompanies it.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge: A book about feminismThis book was fabulous!
The first half gave me major The Catcher in the Rye vibes, what with Esther being an angsty, lonely, depressed young person in New York.
I love Holden, so it was delightful to find another character sort of similar to him.Esther has many poignant feminist thoughts, which were actually quite subtle and not too in-your-face, which I appreciated.
I also look forward to reading this book again in the future so I can pick up on all of the subtle hints that I'm sure are riddled throughout the first half of the book.All in all, I'm glad I finally picked this up.
Man has no foothold that is not also a bargain. So be it! -Djuna Barnes, Nightwood I’ve been side-eyeing this book for a very long time, much as I warily circle any piece of work whose chosen topics happen to lie close to deeply personal experiences of mine. It’s difficult to tell what I fear more from these bundles of paper and ink. The chance of severe disappointment? The possibility of debilitating resonance? Either one would weigh much too heavily on my sensibilities and result in time lost
The frontier of the unknown is whether you will be given the means to achieve it.I promised myself a long time ago that when it came to choosing whether to go back to the path that was guaranteed to end in me jumping off a bridge, or to live, I would choose the latter.
And while the events described in this book happened long ago, the attitude towards mental illness today is still one of distrustful hysterics, and I'll be damned if I put my faith in the impositions of the public before I've exhausted every possibility within my own voluntary grasp.You know what?
At twenty I tried to dieAnd get back, back, back to you.I thought even the bones would do.But they pulled me out of the sack, And they stuck me together with glue. These chilling lines from 'Daddy' played inside my head time and again like the grim echoes of a death knell as I witnessed Esther's struggle to ward off the darkness threatening to converge on her. And despite my best efforts to desist from searching for the vestiges of Sylvia in Esther, I failed. I could not help noting how effortl
I could not help noting how effortlessly Plath must have slipped into the mind of an ingenue like Esther, a thinly veiled version of her younger self, while letting her true disenchantment with life and its unkept promises manifest itself in the iconic poems of Ariel.
Even though Esther lacks Plath's cold fury and resentment as reflected in many of the 'Ariel' poems, she betrays a subliminal fear of her own sexuality and the world she has only just begun unravelling like a mystery.
While Kaysen eventually managed to silence the voices inside her head and went on to pursue a fulfilling writing career, Plath couldn't stand life long enough to leave behind a more voluminous, more enriched oeuvre.
“The silence depressed me. It wasn't the silence of silence. It was my own silence.”  The Bell Jar is honest, disturbing, powerful, and poignant. It opens with "the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs," as if it were an omen of what is to come. Conspicuous and beautiful, it tells a story of despair as a young woman falls to the pitfalls of depression.  “The trouble was, I had been inadequate all along, I simply hadn't thought about it.” Sylvia Plath's death haunts every page as depair vanqu
“The silence depressed me.
Conspicuous and beautiful, it tells a story of despair as a young woman falls to the pitfalls of depression.
Sylvia Plath's death haunts every page as depair vanquishes life.
Sylvia Plath with her superb, alluring and somber writing, holds the reader spellbound and has the power of drawing us into her tale.
“I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story.
I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death, just because I couldn't make up my mind which of the figs I would choose.
I only had to read it once. I never read it for or with pleasure. I prefer childbirth.
Also, I've got a severe gender inequality problem going on in my 2016 reading list and this book, hailed as an important womanly novel, caught my attention through promises of profundity and humor.
Plath had the gift of prose, with elegant metaphors and the creation of immersive settings, evoking indelible images like of Esther sitting in the breezeway trying to write a book or a pair of boots pointing to the ocean.
I have a great yet tender respect for her, writing this book, which must have cost her a tremendous effort given all the dark clouds in her heavy mind, trapped under a bell jar.
‘‘Θα ήμουν πάντα καθισμένη κάτω από τον ίδιο γυάλινο κώδωνα, βράζοντας μέσα στην ίδια την ξινή μου ανάσα’’.Ο «γυάλινος κώδων» ένα αμιγώς αυτοβιογραφικό μυθιστόρημα για την συμβολική και ουσιαστική διαδικασία που οδηγεί την ψυχή στα σκοτεινά, υγρά, υπόγεια και πέτρινα μονοπάτια της αυτοκαταστροφής.
Ένα μουντό φθινόπωρο με καταχνιά που κρύβει τον ήλιο, το σύννεφο της κατάθλιψης που ξεσπάει την ασταμάτητη μπόρα του και σε μουσκεύει μέχρι να πνιγεί ένας απο τους εαυτούς σου.
Κάποιος έχει προκύψει απο μέσα σου και έχει πάρει τον έλεγχο της ζωής και του θανάτου σου, αλλά όποιος κι αν είναι αυτός, σίγουρα δεν είναι ο ίδιος.
Perhaps she would have been okay if only she'd been prescribed the appropriate kind of pills?I thought of The Bell Jar earlier this week when we watched the new von Trier movie, Melancholia.
But Justine doesn't seem to care at all.What she's really worried about, we discover, is the mysterious blue planet Melancholia, which is heading towards Earth at an enormous speed.
Claire is worried about it too, and sneaks off every now and then to look things up on the Web. Her husband reassures her that scientists have done the calculations.
Perhaps some candles?" continues Justine remorselessly."I just want to do this right," whispers Claire."You know what I think of your plan?" says Justine.
And it seemed to wave, lazy like a flag in a winter night with the trifle of winds, in the nook in the behind of my head that was spared by the brutal voice of Esther Greenwood, throughout my reading of The Bell Jar. I failed to grasp at the significance of this remembrance until I came across this line that helped put everything in blinding focus:
The Bell Jar  is a first person narrative about one woman's total alienation - from the self, from society, from the world - with the cold war as a backdrop (the references to the the Rosenbergs, the UN, Russians).
Esther, a young woman of the 1950s, is in New York for a brief, glamourous job at a magazine.
Her sense is that society has placed her under a bell jar, where she is stifled and unable to act.Magazines, the media of the day, had a large influence on women and their self image.
If you've lived with or are fond of someone followed by the Black Dog, this describes the intensity of the feelings (and the treatment) well.Countless critics and reviewers have written about this sad 'memoir' (written as fiction and first published under a pseudonym) about depression, but it is also full of funny anecdotes and perfect insight into American East Coast college girls in the 1950s.Knowing that it’s autobiographical makes it more painful than usual to watch someone curl up in despair, feeling as if she’s been captured under a bell jar, suffocating.
The hell of her thoughts that led her to madness and then a mindless death.At twenty I tried to dieAnd get back, back, back to you.I thought even the bones would do.But they pulled me out of the sack, And they stuck me together with glue.I felt like a culprit for some sin unknown to me, throughout the journey along her, Sylvia Plath's death haunts every page as despair vanquishes life, “The silence depressed me.
Really enjoyed this much more the 2nd time reading it
The idea of being electrocuted makes me sick, and that's all there was to read about in the papers - goggle-eyed headlines staring up at me on every street corner and at the fusty, peanut-smelling mouth of every subway.
It had nothing to do with me, but I couldn't help wondering what it would be like, being burned alive all along your nerves.I thought it must be the worst thing in the world." I started reading this book at about 3 in the afternoon one day, and by midnight, I had finished it.
She makes Holden look like a snot-nosed preschooler throwing a tantrum because someone took his crayons.
She has folded Them back into her body as petalsOf a rose close when the gardenStiffens and odors bleed From the sweet, deep throats of the night flower.The moon has nothing to be sad about,Staring from her hood of bone.She is used to that sort of thing.Her blacks crackle and drag.Key:TBJ- The Bell JarFL-Face LiftK- KindnessLL- Lady LazarusT- TulipsSOER- Suicide Off Egg RockPoem mixology referenced above are in The Collected Poems- Sylvia Plath, 1981, ed.Ted Hughes
And I loved it.Now, I might be a bit in love with it mostly because I listened to the audiobook narrated by the fantastic Maggie Gyllenhaal.
(Seriously, her voice is perfect for Esther's dark & alluring narrative).
Regardless of Gyllenhaal's narrative prowess, I thought the story was engaging and compelling in ways I didn't expect.I knew it was going to be depressing, dealing with a young girl's mental breakdown.
I loved her wry and judgmental voice.
I'd love to read it in print form to see how my experience differs from listening to it.
