https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16343.The_Mysterious_Affair_at_Styles
Choose Your Own Adventure!You are Captain Arthur Hastings, and you are slowly falling in love with a Belgian.
Could it be his suave, continental sense of humor...
his keen sense of justice...
You don’t want to follow him around, adventure after adventure.
You don’t want to be his little bitch, always at his beck and call, sniping and moaning at him but loving it nonetheless.
You don’t like mysteries but you are about to fall victim to the greatest mystery of them all: the mystery of the human heart!
preferably in Iraq, choosehttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...If you decide to follow the little Belgian to the ends of the earth, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
"Dear me, Poirot," I said with a sigh, "I think you have explained everything!
And how wonderful of you to wait until page 230 to finally shed light on all your absurd behavior throughout the book, and to justify and the red herrings and narrative padding!
Why, in fact, though this is but the first case we have solved together, I have no doubt we could do the exact same thing as many as 86 more times, depending on if you count the smaller cases!""Quite so, mon ami," Poirot chuckled.
"You make such a reliably dim-witted Watson!"I looked at Poirot in silent amazement.
and I can re-read her books over and over again without ever getting bored.There are tons of reviews of all her major works, and I don't need to be repetitive in my review.
What I'd really try to get across is why you need to read ANY of her works, and then why I'd suggest this one:1.
And though some of the language is a little different, and it takes place with a different cultural atmosphere, the crux of the story -- its plot, is appropriate at any point in time.
if you need a Christie stand-alone book, go to "And Then There Were None." If you like female investigators, choose a Miss Marple.
The Mysterious Affair at Styles is her first case that introduced Hercule Poirot to the world, and, as usual, Dame Christie did not disappoint.
Inspector Japp almost immediately accuses John Cavendish of murdering his mother and places her on trial, yet Poirot by thoroughly examining each and every clue tells his counterparts to have patience because perhaps a key piece is missing and perhaps the wrong person has been implicated.
Only Poirot seems to attest to the truth and leads Hastings, the inhabitants of Styles Arms, and Christie's readers on a fact finding mission to unravel the case.
As Styles gained in popularity, Christie found that she had a formula that worked with cases starring her famous Belgian detective.
I am especially proud of this milestone because earlier in the decade when I was working full-time there was one month (September 2014) where I only read one book and two months where I only read two books (May and June 2012)!Agatha Christie wrote this novel in 1916, and it was first published in the United States by John Lane for $2.00 per copy in October 1920.
The line from 1602’s Hamlet is, “Though this be madness yet there is method in it.” In this novel, one of the residents of the Styles estate asks in reference to Hercule Poirot, ”Is he quite mad, Mr. Hastings?” and Hastings replies, ”I honestly don’t know.
The first part of this book (other than the murder of course) is a little slow due to character building, so for about the first 100 pages.
You have the suspects talking to each other, Poirot interviewing people for information, and Poirot explaining clues, and of course when he reveals everything at the end of the book.I might be a little biased because I love David Suchet as Poirot in the TV show but I really enjoyed this book.
If you enjoy an old fashioned mystery but have never read Agatha Christie before, this one is a good place to start :)
از انتشار کتاب تنها 25 پوند عاید «کریستی» شدیادداشت: کتاب تحت پنج عنوان متفاوت به فارسی بارها منتشر شده، عنوان نخست: «جنایت مرموز»، با ترجمه­ ی قیطاس مردانی‌راد، نشر پیام عدالت، عنوان دوم: «طلوع در استایلز: اسرار خانه ییلاقی» با ترجمه­ ی بهرام افراسیابی، انتشارات مراد، عنوان سوم: «قتل در عمارت استایلز»، با ترجمه محی­ الدین غفرانی، ت‍وس‍ط ان‍‍تش‍ارات ساحل، و عنوان چهارم: «ماجرای اسرارآمیز در استایلز»، با ترجمه رویا سعیدی و نیز عنوان پنجم: «اولین پرونده­ های پوارو» با ترجمه­ ی محمدرضا عمادی، در نشر هرماز متن کتاب: «فکر نکنید در برنامه ریزی و انجام کارهای تبهکارانه استادید، همیشه هستند کسانی که نقشه شوم و پلیدتان را نقش بر آب میکنند».
ولأنه يوليو الساخن، والليالي الصيفية تحتاج إلى تشغيل الخلايا الصغيرة بالمخفقد انتقلنا إلى مدينة ستايلز لجريمة غامضةورواية أشهر محقق في تاريخ الأدب، هيركول بوارو، بل رواية أجاثا كريستي نفسها الأوليسيدة عجوز ثرية وبيت زوجها الراحل الريفي الكبير، حيث تعيش مع زوجها الجديد الذي يصغرها بكثير، وابني زوجها السابق وزوجة أحدهما وفتاة يتيمة تعطف عليهاوعثر عليها مقتولة بالسم..سم في فنجان قهوةوكل أهل البيت مشتبه بهم..بل وشخصيات اخري..لتبدأ الرواية  كما تري ياصديقي فأن اهل البيت الذين لا تربط بينهم جميعا صلة

This is Agatha Christie’s debut novel, published in 1920, and the first featuring her detective, Hercule Poirot.
Recently, there has been another addition to the household too, as his step-mother has remarried the much younger Alfred Inglethorp.
Alfred has caused an air of constraint to the household and, when Mrs Inglethorp is murdered, he is the natural suspect.Nearby, M.
Poirot has been staying in a house provided by Mrs Inglethorp, along with other Belgian refugees.
This book contains many of the characters that Poirot fans will come to know well – not only Hastings but Detective Inspector James Japp of Scotland Yard.
The murder scene, a locked bedroom, baffles detectives and family alike, and it is up to the famous Belgian detective to solve this unsolvable puzzle.I already knew a death would occur before I even turned the first page, as this is a Christie novel, but that didn't dampen the thrilling atmosphere.
She involves the reader in the crime and places them in Poirot's role, in the hope of uncovering the clues that will lead to the answer of 'whoddunit?'.I love Christie for giving us an almost voyeuristic insight into the historical upper-class.
There were intriguing characters (which, incidentally, are nicely fleshed-out), a page-turning plot, plenty of clues and red-herrings and, best of all, it kept me guessing right until the very end.
The narration also works well - by having Hastings as the narrator, we don't get to see inside Poirot's head, so we can continue to form our own conclusions right to the end.
As a reader of more modern thrillers such as James Patterson, Lee Child and David Baldacci, it was nice to realise that there isn't always a requirement for violence, blood and guts in order to have a good plot.I will definitely be picking up more of Christie's work.
This situation became a Christie trademark – a closed group of people “It must be one of us!” living or staying together in a single dwelling (island, train).Someone dies in suspicious circumstances, (of course – this is Agatha Christie, after all), and Hastings asks if he might invite his old friend Poirot, a retired detective who is currently living in the village with a group of Belgians, to help investigate.Ah, the clues are many, the bits of thread, the grains of this or that, the odd timing of someone’s arrival or departure, the pieces of conversation overheard through closed doors – the suspicions!
أجاثا كريستي ~ القضية الغامضة في مدينة ستايلزالظهور الأول للشيطان العبقري " بوراو "..رواية معقدة، مرهقة، مليئة بالمفاجأت والتقلبات الغريبة، في كل لحضة يتجه عقلك وتفكيرك نحو أحد المشتبه بهم (وهم كُثر) ، ولا داعي للحرج عندما تكون مخطئاً في كل مرة.. لا تحاول .. لا تورط نفسك وتبحث عن القاتل هنا .. دع المسألة للوقت فحسب، النهاية وحدها يمكن أن تأتيك بهوية القاتل أو القاتلة !!عبقرية جداً....
This is the first published novel of Agatha Christie, and the first to feature her famous detective character, Hercule Poirot. So far this is my favorite Christie novel, but I have only read three which leaves me well short of knowing which are her best. The novel was narrated by Arthur Hastings, Mr. Poirot’s assistant, who seemed somewhat unreliable, and incapable of understanding the significance of any clue presented to him. I give it 3.5 stars and a good but not great.
The Mysterious Affair at Styles: Meeting Hercule PoirotDame Agatha Christie was born Agatha Mary Clarissa Miller on 15 September 1890 in Torquay, Devon, South West England and lived a very full life until her death by natural causes on 12 January 1976. During those eighty-five years the lady published sixty-six novels and fourteen short story collections, becoming the best selling author in history, outsold only by the Bible.    Agatha Christie as a child Christie's remarkable life as a writer h
The Mysterious Affair at Styles: Meeting Hercule PoirotDame Agatha Christie was born Agatha Mary Clarissa Miller on 15 September 1890 in Torquay, Devon, South West England and lived a very full life until her death by natural causes on 12 January 1976.
Her first writing would be short stories.It was this book, The Mysterious Affair at Styles, published by John Lane of the Bodley Head in London in 1921.
While her husband was overseas, Christie began The Mysterious Affair at Styles in 1916, the year in which the novel is set.
Styles Court belongs to the Cavendish family, and is currently occupied by a diverse assemblage of people, including: Emily Inglethorpe - the widow of the late Mr. Cavendish - who inherited a lifetime interest in the house AND a large sum of money; Emily's new - much younger - husband, Alfred Inglethorpe; Emily's adult stepson, John Cavendish; John's wife Mary; John's bachelor brother Lawrence; Evelyn Howard - Emily's longtime friend and companion; Cynthia Murdoch - the orphaned daughter of family friends; and Dorcas, the maid.
As it happens, a group of Belgian refugees, including Hercule Poirot, are living in a house near Styles Court - an arrangement facilitated by Emily Inglethorpe.
It was as though he had seen something that turned him to stone.
When the woman is killed, Poirot uses his detective skills to solve the mystery.MY THOUGHTS: Agatha Christie’s first novel, The Mysterious Affair at Styles, was the result of a dare from her sister Madge who challenged her to write a story.
And, in the end, I was still wrong!I listened to the audio version of The Mysterious Affair at Styles by Agatha Christie, narrated by Hugh Fraser, via OverDrive.
This review and others are also published on my blog sandysbookaday.wordpress.com https://sandysbookaday.wordpress.com/...
The story is a cleverly written murder mystery with interesting twists and turns so as to not give out who the culprit is.
The eccentric Poirot (it seems detectives are rather eccentric people; Sherlock Holmes comes to my mind!) and his friend and narrator, Mr. Hastings provided the contrasting points of view on the case keeping the reader in curious wonder as to the turn of the events.Overall, it was a very interesting first read.
I'm very glad to have finally started up with Agatha Christie, though a little late in my reading life.
I certainly have missed on a great murder mystery author.
I don't get his thing for the women, though, were all men so easily led into marriage back then?Even if I felt little for the victim or cared about the accused cast, I didn't figure out the ending and liked the neat curveball Christie threw the readers way, something I never saw coming.
It's amazing how Agatha could conceive and hold all that in her mind, but then there is a reason she still stands as one of the very best in detective fiction.Overall a great book featuring Poirot.
The first Poirot. Everybody has a motive, everyone acts suspiciously--and the customary floor plans are provided.
I’ve read a few Christies in my time but it’s the tv series and films that I remember more.
It’s hilarious that Hastings has pretensions to be a detective himself because he isn’t terribly bright!
:“Yes, he is intelligent.
But we must be more intelligent.
There had been times when I hardly thought that Poirot appreciated me at my true worth.I even enjoyed the little maps and diagrams!I have to say as well that the Poirot tv series with John Suchet, from years ago, was really excellent as I could still visualise it as I was reading.
اول تجربة مع ملكة الروايات البوليسية :)  بعد قراءة كثير من الروايات البوليسية يتملكك الغرور انك تستطيع التخمين القاتل و السر فى نهاية الرواية او على الاقل تشك باحد الافراد و لكن اجاثا كريسيتى غير اى روائىة xDرواية مشوقة و اول تجربة مع المفتش بوارو المبدع ملك التحليل و التفاصيل كم التقلبات فى احداث الرواية و محاولة الشك فى شخص معين ملوش اى لازمة مع اجاثا اقرا و استمتع و تقبل انك لن تتوقع ابدا القاتل مع اجاثا :)
Thus begins the sleuthing adventures of that diminutive Belgian private detective Hercule Poirot!The setting is an English country manor house during World War I.
I've read a few of Agatha Christie's Poirot books before and grown fond of the recurring characters, so it was nice to finally see where it all began.
While not her best work, I believe The Mysterious Affair at Styles is Christie's very first work, and with that in mind, this ain't half bad!I don't know if it deserves four stars, because I'm a fan and was happy to get some insights into the main characters that would carry this series into the dozens.
*3.5/5
Zaleđinu za lik simpatičnog detektiva pronašla je u okolnosti da su u njen rodni grad stigle izbeglice iz Belgije koje su tražile utočište pred Prvi svetski rat.Agata Kristi je "Tajanstveni događaj u Stajlsu" počela da piše još 1916.godine, a roman je svetlost dana ugledao tek pet goodina kasnije - 1921.godine.
Međutim, na nagovor Džona Lejna (suosnivača izdavačke kuće koja je roman izdala) pristaje da to promeni, i mada samo razjašnjenje ostaje isto, Poaro ga ne daje za vreme suđenja već ubicu razotkriva pred publikom okupljenom u privatnom salonu.
This is the first of Christie’s Poirot series; I figured it might be a good place to start, even if the books in this series need not be read in order.There is no gore, drug addicts or car chases, all of which I can do without.
Poirot did make me smile, as did Alfred Inglethorp’s cousin, Evelyn Howard, but she totally (view spoiler)[duped me.
Of course, it does make perfect sense that she and Alfred were just fooling us; they were not enemies but were in fact romantically involved (hide spoiler)]!
This is not the Poirot we have come to know.Hugh Fraser's narration of the audiobook is fantastic.
The actor who plays the victim will pop out from behind the curtain very much alive when all is said and done.Mrs. Inglethorp raised her two stepsons as her own, but there are tensions between them when she inherits the family home, Styles, and her late husband's fortune over the boys.
But while she might not be beloved by her family, Mrs. Inglethorp gained a reputation for her generosity to the Belgian people during WW1.
And one specific Belgian, Hercule Poirot, is determined to get to the bottom of her murder.I very much enjoyed Poirot's friend Hastings as the narrator, particularly because made himself an unsuspecting idiot the whole book.
(What a shocker, not a Victorian book...)I really enjoyed this one; I listened to it on audiobook with my boyfriend over a month or two and it was an entertaining read. I love Poirot, and am hoping to read the series roughly in order from this point on.
It certainly was the book that started it all for Hercule Poirot and his friend Hastings.
But there were two scenes that seemed a little odd and I wonder if in future books Christie ever explains the detective's concern about spent matches.
Why do I care that he cared?And here are some nifty examples of Hercule Poirot's mind at work:Scolding Hastings: "You gave too much rein to your imagination.
The simplest explanation is always the most likely."Another scolding for Hastings (he certainly never seemed too bright compared to Poirot): "What have I always told you?
When Hastings was visiting friends at Styles Court in Essex he had no idea what was about to happen.
Hastings quickly found his old friend Detective Hercule Poirot, who was also visiting town, and asked him to become involved.
After all, the little Frenchman was well-known for his ability to solve even the most mysterious of mysteries.But would he be outdone this time?
Hastings thought he knew whodunit – but Poirot was keeping his thoughts to himself, much to Hastings’ annoyance.
Was the magnificent Poirot stumped this time?The Mysterious Affair at Styles is the first in the Hercule Poirot mystery series by Agatha Christie and it was a lot of fun.
