https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300225.Bloodline
Brilliant! did not want the book to end that's how good it was reading each chapter because it was well written (paperback!)
Me being the stupid person that I am, read the last page by mistake and therefore knew the end from the beginning but this book still made me doubt my suspicions! Ahh Sydney Sheldon!
BLOODLINE is a 1977 novel by the great and the wise, Sidney Sheldon.
My grandmother told me that she saw a movie titled Bloodline before but she wasn't sure if it was the film adaptation of this book.
Out of curiosity, I learned that Bloodline was really adapted into a film in 1979, but it was a complete failure because Audrey Hepburn who played as the protagonist is older than the Sheldon character she supposed to portray (Elizabeth).
In order to solve the problem, Sheldon revised his novel to place the literary version of Elizabeth into the same age range as Hepburn.
You have to love this master work of Sydney Sheldon.
Come on.Sheldon's broad adventure of covetousness and treachery, damage and peril, and the ties that can slaughter...
Roffe and Sons is a family firm, a global domain loaded with urgent, money hungry relatives.
Presently as this savvy, extreme, and lovely young lady sets out to spare - not offer - Roffe and Sons, she should outsmart the individuals who furtively need her energy, and the obscure professional killer who needs her life.“Because there was a hunger in me to see everything and do everything.
Inheriting Roffe Industries after her father's mysterious death, things start happening that convinces Elizabeth that someone, or some people, are trying to take over her fortune - even if it means taking her life.If the above plot has not moved you yet, then you probably have problems.
Fast-paced and dripping with exciting dialogue, this book will lead you on a thrilling roller coaster ride, only to have the ride stop at the top of the highest loop, the operator telling you that the ride is over.What happened to Elizabeth's cousins?
It's so disappointing to learn that while guessing whodunit, it turns out, it's not even worth knowing, as this book is hardly worth reading.
Roffe and Sons is a family firm. Sam Roffe dies in an accident and young-beautiful Elizabeth Roffe takes charge. The first 200+ pages covers all the branches of the family across the globe which gives a quick picture of each member's need and greed. The storyline picks up jet-speed when Elizabeth refuses to sell the stocks. The revelation of who conspired against her left me dumbfounded. Absolutely stunning read. After reading this book, I could decipher why Sidney Sheldon is still the master storyteller.
It comes with a bonus, though: An enemy who's determined to get what he wants—even if it means Elizabeth's life.The first few chapters of this book had me strongly hooked.
All the time I was on the edge, my mind spinning theories, fitting the puzzle pieces, playing with the clues and details; I couldn't figure out who was the real culprit.
Sheldon should've put in some more pages.
I mean, sure I could already imagine what would happen, but still...!*sigh* I really expected a lot from this book.
Especially since it's a Sidney Sheldon book.
but this book is quite different though it has main ingredients of Sidney Glamour, love, sex, romance along with medical science(research in depth), greed, sabotage, betrayal, murder,crime, mysteries.The book actually started after 200 pages, first 200 pages includes introduction of characters, at time it feel, the introduction is dragged a bit, although the accounts of their lives are more like a different story and all provide a thrilling and dark side of each one's characters.
Till the end the murderer is not unveiled and that provides a series of spine-chilling adventurous read.Bloodline would definitely come under finesse work of Sideny Sheldon
I'm very surprised that this has such a high average rating here on Goodreads, I remember it as very much in line with his others. It's been a while, so I may be off some, but I'm not going to read or re-read any of his books, because life's too short.
Devastated as she is, its up to her to run her fathers company, but what she doesn't know that her family members on the board of directors are vying for the money put on shares, which according to the her father, shouldn't be made public.
On top of that, someone's trying to kill her.
Is it her father's super sexy, and trusted ex-secretory, or one of her relatives, is what she trying to find out.
Failed attempts to kill her makes her think about the selling the share money.
Outstanding!!This book grab you from the very beginning to the last page! from the beginning in my suspect list there were only 2 person and one would be the main culprit from them I knew for sure. but I couldn't conclude which one it could be until the last page. though I felt some hurry in the end and expected some more explanation, it was absolutely a thriller full of suspense, tension, romance and MYSTERY.Sheldon is a boss writer. He is THE MASTER STORYTELLER!
Bloodline, Sidney Sheldonعنوان: خط خون؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ مترجم: امیر منوچهری پور؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، میلاد، 1372، در 420 ص، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی قرن 20 مرمانی که نشان میدهد خودخواهی انسانها تا چه اندازه میتواند دنیا را آشفته سازد
It's a 20th century book still the plots, character, everything is no less than a modern contemporary novel.But I'm not fully satisfied with the book, there are enough negative points to justify my complaint.The book opens with the death of Sam Roffe--president of the "Roffe and sons".
Rhys Williams is one of the most trusted people in Sam Roffe's list, where only a few people resides, he is a good-looking, charming and ambitious personality.
Readers are left in haze, no explanation about other things, like--what was going on between Hélène and Rhys?
Book 1 is extends to 180 pages out of 409.the 1st part might seem a little boring.The main story starts from BOOK 2.The Novel is incomplete..after completing it i found many things does't have its end.As his other works this one too provides a fantastic read from the very beginning where the story begins with news of death of Sam Roffee, the president of a multinational company set by his ancestor.
The accounts of their lives are more like a different story through which the reader glides smoothly as they all provide a thrilling and dark side of each oneâ?Ts characters.As he does in all his novels this one too has a mesmerizing ending that captivates the reader.
So, so good. It's a one day read, if you want to spend around 5 hours reading. ;] I did. I loved it. I didn't want to put it down. EVER. :] It was really had to figure out who did it. You literally don't know for sure until the very end. Every single person has a motive. I'm so glad Mother recommended it!
This review is not spoiler free.  Am I going to do justice to Sheldon's genius with my words? No.Is there anything stopping me from giving it a sloppy go? Yes, my common sense. But no.I just wish there was something I could say to define this man. Sidney Sheldon. The biggest writer to ever walk planet earth in my humble opinion. The research that good man did for each one of his books is alone worthy of exceptional praise. Later come all other matters that separate him from his peers and even t
I am aware how many times I've said it, wrote it, expressed it, that Sidney Sheldon was a talented writer with breathtaking books but he keeps on surprising me as much as I delve into his writing.Bloodline is the story of greed, lust, family, betrayal, murder; in the midst of all of this, a twenty-four year old Elizabeth Roffe who has overnight inherited a multi-billion dollar business empire when her father, the original owner of it all, suddenly dies by falling into a crevasse.
And Rhys and Elizabeth will be more and more careful now that they've suffered and seen so much.The book was perfect.
Elizabeth Roffe mewarisi perusahaan farmasi terbesar di dunia, Roffe & Sons, sepeninggal ayahnya yg tewas krn kecelakaan ski.
Setiap anggota keluarga tsb memiliki motif besar sbg dalang utk merekayasa semua insiden yg terjadi.Elizabeth sampai dua kali mengalami "kecelakaan".
Elizabeth akhirnya melamar Rhys Williams, tangan kanan ayahnya, sbg suami sekaligus presdir, upaya solusi menenangkan pihak luar.
Tetapi bagaimana jika semua bukti-bukti tersangka mengarah pd suaminya ini?Saya baca kembali novel ini sekarang.
Cantik tapi naif banget itulah gambaran saya ttg Elizabeth.
Para sepupu Elizabeth ini gak jelas juga apakah mereka terlibat dalam konspirasi atau tidak.
Dan hal-hal inilah yg bikin saya gak puas banget.
Fue tanto pero tanto lo que me gusto, que lo único que esperaba en el día era poder sentarme en el colectivo y seguir leyendo la historia.Lazos de Sangre cuenta la historia de Elizabeth Roffe, una joven que se tiene que hacer cargo de la empresa familiar, ya que su padre ha muerto inesperadamente tratando de escalar una montaña.De un dia para otro, Elizabeth se ve metida en un mundo de negocios muy grande, la empresa de Roffe e Hijos, fundada por su bisabuelo, la cual tiene muchísimos años de trayectoria convirtiéndose un exito a nivel mundial.La novela esta dividida en dos partes.
Natürlich werden sie kurzfristig vom Schicksal gebeutelt, aber am Ende des Buches - kann der Leser gewiss sein - löst sich alles in Wohlgefallen auf.
Während ich in frühen Teenagertagen die Bücher von Sheldon verschlungen habe, kann ich nun - fast 30 Jahre später - zumindest mit "Blutspur" gar nichts mehr anfangen.Der Schreibstil: Schlicht, mit einem ausgeprägten Hang zur Dramatik.
Das alles wird einmal durchgeschüttelt und schon gibt's "Blutspur".Die ersten zwei Drittel des Buches gehen dabei sogar noch einigermaßen.
Bloodline featured another ingenious plot line concocted by Mr. Sheldon.
Her father is heir to the Roffe and Son's empire--one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world.
Unfortunatly, because of her gender, she will not inherit Roffe and Son's upon her father's death, as only men may serve on the board of the company.
As a result, the women have all married money grubbing hustlers who serve on the board, biding their time till they can take over and make the company public.
Hence she marries Ryhs Williams, her father's right hand man, who becomes president of Roffe and Son's.
Certainly a good book to read.
May not be Sheldon's best, and there may also be claims that the book draws heavily from Sheldon's previous releases but still this book is certainly worth a read.
Though the climax reveals a different story, it was expected from Sheldon and the familiar mind-blowing twist at the end is missing.
The character certainly gives a different face to a detective.
The part where Samuel Roffe's life is narrated is fantastic and is probably the best part of the book.
The other characters like Ivo, Alec, Walther Gassner and Chris Martel were all well developed.
This novel is unlike Sheldon's others. It is not very captivating, the story seems to start only halfway through the book. The writing is galore with attempts at lengthy descriptions which seem unnecessary. The latter half has pace, twists and turns that one would expect from Sheldon. The ending seems to have been written in haste, leaving the reader without a complete closure.
It was very thrilling from the start and took my breath away.
I can't say red herrings did not lead me astray, but in a story full of dubious characters, who am I to blame.Bloodline introduces us to the scandalous world of the elite, where people had affairs for the money, run from problems due to money, and kill for the money.
Perhaps, we are left to our own devices on how do we want them to face the consequences.The overall conflict, with its branch of smaller mysteries, is definitely thrilling.
I would have loved to see the same thrill and action in joining the pieces of the puzzle than the one that is shown to us.At the end of the day, a mystery solved is a story fulfilled.
Bloodline ~ Sidney Sheldon ⭐⭐⭐~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bloodline ini bercerita tentang perusahaan farmasi besar Roffe And Sons yang seluruh pemegang saham adalah keluarga.
Elizabeth Roffe mewarisi saham terbesar Roffe and Sons ini setelah ayahnya tewas dalam kecelakaan ski.
Keluarganya yg berada di negara lain berharap Elizabeth menjual saham mereka ke pihak luar.
Tentu saja, keluarga Elizabeth punya alasan masing-masing.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Elizabeth tidak berniat menjual saham Roffe And Sons.
Dan dimulailah usaha untuk "menggulingkan" Elizabeth.
Elizabeth mengalami kecelakaan dua kali yang sebenarnya adalah usaha untuk membunuhnya.
Hanya saja hingga endingpun tidak jelas peranan keluarga besar Elizabeth dalam kejadian yg menimpa Roffe And Sons, terlalu menggantung.
7,5 de 10*Embora Sidney Sheldon tenha uma vasta obra de literatura, nunca tinha lido nada do autor. Por estar a participar num desafio literário, chamado Book Bingo, para uma das categorias, necessitava de ler um livro escrito no ano em que eu nasci. A escolha não foi fácil porque a oferta, em livros traduzidos para português, não era muito grande. A escolha acabou por recair neste livro.Fiquei agradavelmente surpreendida com a escrita do autor. Comentário completo em:https://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.co...
what was that shit about the ribbon thing?i guess i fell asleep at the wheelp168: he was a tall man about thirty-five, with a thin, freckled face, and a scalp that was bald except for a tonsure of bright red hair.
Awesome story
Grade: BBorn Sidney Schechtel in Chicago, Sidney Sheldon, from making his first sale of a poem for $5 at the age of 10, has made his way up to the sixth position of the list of bestseller authors of all time.The daughter of a rich and powerful father, Elizabeth Roffe is young, beautiful – and sole heir to a billion dollar fortune.
Her father is killed in a freak accident and Elizabeth much take command of his mighty global empire, the pharmaceutical company Roffe and Sons.
Elizabeth is forced to take over after her father, a man she loved but had a distant relationship with, dies.The first half of the book goes into the extensive background of the Roffe family, beginning with their ancestor Samuel who started the company, then moves into detail about Elizabeth's life growing up.
This also gives each of them a motive to want to murder Elizabeth when she stands against them, deciding to run the company herself.
He too, may have reason to want to be rid of her.I think the author wove a good story with a solid backdrop that helps invest you in the family and the company.
