https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833550.Each_Peach_Pear_Plum
This remains one of a few special books we both know off by heart, more than twenty years later.Pass it onAnother daisy chain: it’s a book I’ve given to many friends.
Last week, a friend I gave it to more than ten years ago, and who now lives in Australia, sent me a picture of her younger child with the book, saying her kids still love it.
This lovely children's book is a fun, rhyming hide and seek game featuring favorite characters from storybooks.
My child loves turning the pages and looking for WHAT THE BLOODY SHIT, IS THAT BEAR ARMED?!
On each page, a simple rhyming couplet introduces the storybook character who's hiding.
(You'll need a Boston accent for Cinderella!) It's great fun to SWEET PONY-RIDING CHRIST IT'S THAT FUCKING UNDERAGE BEAR AGAIN AND HE'S STILL ARMED"Should we teach him about the safety?" "Nah"haha look at the bunnies, the bunnies know what the fuck is upLook, it's a fun book.
But how many armed bears do you want in these woods?
We have had this in our kids bookcase for almost 20 years. It was always one of their favorites and is a great introduction to the "I Spy" type of books. Little ones age 2 and up will have great fun with this book and the illustrations are so cute. My kids didn't even know many of the original nursery rhymes but it didn't deter them from enjoying this book.Highly recommend for the 2 and up age group :)
The invitation is simple: ”In this book, with your little eye, take a look and play ‘I spy’”Here goes the first rhyme: ”Each Peach Pear Plum; I spy Tom Thumb”.
The overleaf shows an abundant pear tree, a plum tree, and a peach tree, and tiny Tom Thumb snugly resting on a branch, reading a book.
What a wonderful way to introduce beginning readers to rhymes and a mini universe of fairy tale characters (Cinderella, the Three Bears, Jack & Jill, etc.)!Each Peach Pear Plum is a classic children’s book, and so beautifully illustrated.

Really cute and fun. I remember this from when I was a child and I think that fondness bumps it up to five stars. I loved "I Spy" type things back then and now I can appreciate the smooth flow of the rhyme scheme and the clever illustrations and I just really enjoyed the variety of Mother Goose characters and how their little stories are related. I can see why this is a "classic" :-)
My mother read this to both my sister and I when we were little, and to this day both of us can recite it from memory.
First published the year before I was born, in 1978, it's still going strong, with a wonderful rhyming story complemented by luscious illustrations.
Tricky for younger readers perhaps, but in my experience they always find plenty of things to point to in the illustrations to ask "what's that?" ;) Which means this is a book for various age groups, really.
And when you have to read the same books over and over again to a young audience, it's one of the few that I never get tired of re-reading!
Great little book, was very fun to read to the kids. Only problem is, now they're pestering me into reading all the nursery rhymes in this book...
I really enjoyed this book as a child.
I really like how the story is written in a rhyming format.
When a character is introduced you can find the character on the opposite page.It really engages the children in the book, which I've seen when reading the book to children in a reception class.
It challenges the children to look carefully for the nursery rhyme character.
You have to look carefully when looking for the characters, althought I have read the book endless times I always find it difficult to find The Three Bears!
The pictures are really appealing to the children.
I would recommend everyone to read this book.
This was just... Not fun.
Superbly illustrated by the late Janet Ahlberg and written by husband Allan, 'Each Peach Pear Plum' has rhymed text that, together with the illustrations, invites readers to play the game of 'I spy' with a variety of folklore characters, who each move on from their hidden spots in one illustration to feature in the next one.Aimed at a younger audience (I bought it for a friend's daughter but thought I would read it and play it first) it should probably be simple for an adult like myself.
It is a picture book that is based on characters from traditional tales.
It uses the game 'I spy' to encourage the reader to spot the characters in a variety of different settings.This book would be suitable for Early Years as it has rhythmical text and features a game that will be recognised by young children.
It is a great book which young learners can become involved in.
It can be read to the whole class and followed by setting smaller group tasks and/or individual activities, using words, text and recognisable characters that feature in the book.
A delightful rhyming book with intricate clever pictures that can grow up with the child. I began reading this to my eldest son when he was about six months old and just enjoyed the sound of words he couldn't understand and was still reading it very enthusiastically to my daughter 12 years later when she put in an appearance. Of the literally hundreds of times I have read this book to a child it has never bored me but has been an utter delight over and over again.
"In this book / With your little eye / Take a look / And play "I spy." So reads the little rhyming instruction at the beginning of this delightful picture-book for younger children, which presents a series of nursery rhyme and fairy-tales characters, each of which needs to be found in the facing-page illustration.
Recommended to younger readers who enjoy nursery rhymes, fairy-tales, and I-spy games.
Characters are spotted, but only rarely are we given a glimpse of their fate – we know that Jack and Jill will fall down the hill, but it will happen off-screen, and in our imagination, a la Janet Leigh in the Psycho shower scene.In a clear reference to the Cold War, the Bears – a metaphor for the Soviet Union – are always there in the background, and Janet Ahlberg’s illustration of the Wicked Witch could not resemble Margaret Thatcher more clearly if it were a photograph.
Underneath the drawing, readers are welcomed to “the text, and informed that “in this book”, they’ll be asked to “play ‘I spy’”.Allan and Ahlberg’s text is repetitious, rhyming, and predictable, making it a perfect choice for the emergent reader.
Each Peach Pear Plum commences with the following two lines: “Each Peach Pear Plum, I spy Tom Thumb.” Turning the page, we read: “Tom Thumb in the Cupboard, I spy Mother Hubbard.” Thus, the final name(s) included in the second line, continue on the next page.
This rhyming pattern makes it easy enough for even three-year-olds to predict, but will engage readers probably to about age five.
This book allows the reader to play a game of 'I Spy' with familiar characters from tradition tales and nursery rhymes.
The book yours different stories, getting the reader to find characters such as Goldilocks, Tom Thumb and Jack and Jill.
This book would be a lovely too for children to explore familiar stories and characters, whilst playing the game which runs through the book.
This book would be good within an Early Years or KS1 setting to either introduce many skills such as recognising familiar characters, rhyming etc.
I adore this book and it was a favourite of both my son and daughter when they were little.
This is a book to read to them when they're small and for them to read to you when they are a bit older.
Children love looking at the really nice pictures and trying to find the 'hidden' character on each page, which makes them feel clever.The story is in the form of a rhyme, so reads lyrically and appeals to children, also aiding memory.
I can still remember some of it, years later!I recommend this book for everyone with young children and have also bought it for my grandson.
While this is an 'I Spy' book, it also reinforces the nursery rhymes and fairy tales that the kids are learning. It's fun when they have an 'ah-ha' moment either because they recognize the character in this book, or, when they're hearing a verse or tale for the first time, remember that they saw it in this book.
Expert rhymes and quaint illustrations in a story that delightfully blends a diverse cast of fairy tale and folklore characters. One of my daughter’s favorites.
I had forgotten just how delightful this book is. Thanks Auntie Blythe for giving Kaira your favorite book as a child and helping me to rediscover it and her to experience it for the first time!
Beautiful rhyming picture book combining classic children characters every child will recognise, with the well known game 'eye spy'. A real classic that has stood the test of time.
”In this bookWith your little eyeTake a lookAnd play ‘I spy’...”Janet and Allan Ahlberg do a wonderful job of creating melodic little tales for young children.
The emphasis on language and sound is perfect for older babies and toddlers, and the illustrations make it easy for children to point out everyday items as they read along with you.Each Peach Pear Plum uses alliteration and infectious rhymes to pair favourite nursery rhyme characters, such as Tom Thumb, Mother Hubbard and The Three Bears, with everyday vocabulary such as cupboards, fruit etc.
It is lovely to read and to look at.
3.5 stars.
This book is amazing for young children.
It rhymes throughout which automatically engages children and makes them want to join in with the reader.
The writing is always on the left hand side with the picture following on the left, reinforcing the idea that you start on the left side of the page and make your way across; teaching this early on.
Before the writing on the left hand side there are some clues of a picture about it, giving children an indication of what the next section might be about; therefore, if children are not quite able to read the words yet, this book can be read just by having a look and understanding the images provided.
Sweet fun picture story that I liked as a child and still like as adult. There is a pleasant liveliness to the poetry, and all the Mother Goose characters hanging out it is very sweet. the illustrations are rather lovely and cute without being pretty, and I quite like that, the distinctivenss of it. It went ok at storytime, with some slight abridgement on my part, although it would be better with a larger copy of the item than I had. Probably better for a cuddly one-on-one storytime rather than a big storytime with a group.
Another key theme is the use of wanting to find things in the and the use of trying to see who is hidden in the image and this will bring out curiosity in the children as they will be wanting to find the hidden image in the story and this can then make the story more enjoyable for them.What I liked about the book?Through this book, it is very catchy and the use of rhyming words and the way the words are written it is very easy for the reader to make it into the catchy rhythm to read the story to the children to make them more intrigued with the story in order to keep reading and looking at the story as it is drawing them in.
This is a lovely book that uses I spy to go through characters from nursery rhymes. It’s rhyming and short on text with only 2 lines of text per page introducing the next characters, each peach pear plum, I spy Tom Thimb. Tom Thumb in the cupboard I spy Mother Hubbard etc. It’s great for introducing nursery rhymes and characters of children’s fiction and history (such as Robin Hood) and children like remembering the order
Lovely rhyming book for young children including nursery rhyme and fairytale characters. Good for pics too.
Classic book for younger children
