https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151374.So_Long_a_Letter
At Modou's funeral, both women are given equal treatment even though he had been married to Ramatoulaye much longer, and in the eyes of her community, she should be receive the majority of compensation.
It is little wonder to Ramatoulaye that her co-wife would marry her husband while still a school girl.
Yet, Ba through Ramatoulaye writes that women should strive to be more than wives and mothers and hope to achieve jobs as doctor, teacher, ambassador, or any profession that a man also does.
Her writing was a means to generate more thinking of this issue in hopes that African women strive to be on equal footing as men.
"Ebb and tide of feeling: heat and dazzlement, the wood fires, the sharp green mango, bitten into in turns, a delicacy in our greedy mouths. I close my eyes." What you hear is the voice of the heartbroken Ramatoulaye, who has been forced into solitude (according to the dictates of Islam) to mourn the death of the husband who, when he lived, humiliated and abandoned her. This is an epistolary; a meditation on life and life's choices. It is an anguished plea from one conservative woman, to her li
It is an anguished plea from one conservative woman, to her liberal best friend who, when faced with the same choice, chose freedom:
This theme of choice is an educational debate and exploration that takes place through the mothers and daughters of this novel: A daughter who wants her mother to leave an unhealthy marriage; a best friend who did leave and start a better life away from home; a woman who left her country, only to find that she would never be at home in her husband's country; an unmarried daughter who had to decide her unborn child's fate.
The end of the letter focusses more on the next generation and the way Ramatoulaye manages the tensions of a new generation with different expectations.
Ba also points to the importance of education to women; note this passage which speaks of Aissatou’s progress;“The power of books, this marvelous invention of astute human intelligence.
The letter progresses from colonial to post-colonial times and Ba notes how for women to progress they to access education and there is a similar movement from oppression and towards freedom.
Each profession, intellectual or manual, deserves consideration, whether it requires painful physical effort or manual dexterity, wide knowledge or the patience of an ant. Ours, like that of a doctor, does not allow for any mistake. You don't joke with life, and life is both body and mind. To warp a soul is as much a sacrilege as murder. A comparison to Sleepless Nights is not too far apace, for what is more familiar of the epistolary form is counterbalanced by a less novelized perspective, exp
In this, one must consider all the works of this country and continent that did not make it to the lists of 500 GBBW, 1001, all those one will never know on what schemes of quality they fell short.
I wonder, sometimes, what works the elite of Senegal scoff at, which ones they covet with false delight, what familiar lines of public engagement with literature I see only in the Anglo world and am missing everywhere else.In short, what works did Bâ grow up on that are not proclaimed everywhere else?
Various signs associated with sound: different sounds that form the word.
Ramatoulaye comes across as educated, forceful, passionate yet self-controlled.
The strength and depth of her character are what make this so essential in my opinion, it is her voice, sounding out with her whole, mature, self-knowing being behind it, adding to its resonance.
A practising Muslim, accomplished and successful professional, loving wife, attentive mother, Ramatoulaye is irreproachable by the criteria of her culture’s values, even as they are swirled into the maelstrom of (de)colonisation and modernity.
This book, So Long a Letter, originally written in French, won the first Noma Prize for Publishing in Africa in 1980 and is now considered as one of Africa's 100 Best Books of the 20th Century.The book is basically a long series of letters that a newly widowed woman, Ramatoulaye wrote to her friend Aissatou.
Through Ramatoulaye, Ba was able to state her case: that African women are still considered as the weaker sex and are still, sadly, tolerant to being secondary to men.If the Britain has Charlotte Bronte, Virginia Woolf, Edith Warton and Angela Carter; France has Simone de Beauvoir; America has Alice Walker, Toni Morrison and Zora Neale Hurston; Africa, I would say has Mariama Ba. They for me, are among the extremely talented female feminist novelists.
This novella is in epistolary form: a long letter from an aging widow (who is progressive by her society's normative standards, perhaps boldly and bravely so) to her great friend, Aissatou.
I kept looking for ways to justify awkward details in the letter (i.e. Ramatoulaye recounts details of her relationship with Aissatou that would be needless if the letter were truly written for her).
But I have to repeat, this is almost, but not quite enough to smooth out the awkwardness, the sense of awareness that certain choices to provide context imply that the author was writing for a wider reading public, rather than maintaining the conceit of the form.
Excellent. How many novels by Senegalese Muslim women have you read? Particularly ones dealing explicitly with both gender and religion? This is only about 80pages long, so is a quick read, and will probably help fill a gap in your reading which, in our current political climate, should be filled as a matter of some urgency.
An excellent Sunday afternoon read and pertinent to much that is being written and read in the media under the banner of the silencing of women today.This short, articulate novella is actually a conversation, or a lengthy letter from one widow to her best friend, whom she hasn't seen for some years, but who is arriving tomorrow.Our recent widow is reflecting on how she is unable to detach from memories of better times in the past, during those 25 years where she was happily married and the only wife of her husband and the more bitter, heart-breaking recent years where she was abandoned by him for the best friend of her daughter, a young woman, who traded the magic of youth, for the allure of shiny things (with the exception of his silver grey streaks, which he in turn trades in for the black dye of those in denial of the ageing process).Was it madness, weakness, irresistible love?
So long a letter is an intimate expose on Ramatoulaye's life as she writes a long letter to her life long friend, Aissatou.
Being one of the co-wives, Ramatoulaye's situation in life is different from that of her friend.
Ramatoulaye stays in marriage and believes in ideal romance.
The belief system is ingrained by the cultural doctrines and Ramatoulaye struggles to rebel against the conformist society.
In less than hundred pages and Ramatoulaye fills it with politics, race, gender, culture, religion, education, marriage and a bit of Islam as well.
This novel is in the form of a letter, written by the widowed Ramatoulaye and describing her struggle for survival.Muslim Ramatoulaye, a Senegalese abandoned wife adjusts to her new role with utter strength tinged with sorrowfulness. "From then on, my life changed. I had prepared myself for equal sharing, according to the precepts of Islam concerning polygamic life. I was left with empty hands. My children, who disagreed with my decision, sulked. In opposition to me, they represented a majority
Bâ invites the reader entry into the depths of Ramatoulaye's life where all parties and sides are displayed.
The complexities, contradictions of Ramatoulaye's situation adds dimension further explaining the blurred lines of religion, culture and of women.
We experienced the tiffs and reconciliations of married life.
They would look on, without reacting, as their children romped around on my chairs.
Her life altered in unimaginable ways she manages to focus on hope rather than lose herself in despair.
West African customs explored.A story of friendship, love and hope.
What price the lot of African women under what has been patent patriarchal domination for years on end?
Of course this work excellently deals with this, and has rightly been considered something of a masterpiece for decades now.
She is aware of her status as an African woman who has had 12 children!
Eternal woman, even in mourning, you want to make a strike, you want to seduce, arouse interest" .
A woman's mouth exhaling the acrid smell of tobacco instead of being fragrant.
A woman's teeth blackened with tobacco instead of sparkling with whiteness' Despite her apparent broad-mindedness and stoic approach, one cannot but wish our narrator all the best...
I haven't read this book since I was 13 or so but I remember loving it.
It is fitting to follow a reading of Mary Wollstonecraft's  A Vindication of the Rights of Woman  with Mariama Bâ's 1980 novella Une si longue lettre, because one thing that struck me about both works is the interrelation of feminism/female roles and the larger political scene in the country at large. In this regard the two works could also form a parallel with Naguib Mahfouz's  Palace Walk : in all three pieces, whether they treat of the French Revolution or Senegal's independence from France,
In Une si longue lettre, Bâ sketches a portrait of two female friends at the dawn of Senegalese independence, for whom the heady days of idealism and progress in the 1960s are disrupted forever when their husbands both decide to take second wives.
What I don't know is whether there was ever a time in Senegal when this Quranic injunction was enforced; in other words, are Ramatoulaye's husband's actions another example of cross-contamination between the future and the past, in which he uses a bastardized version of a traditional custom in order to justify his shoddy treatment of his first wife?
Elegant and emotionally revealing epistolary novel. For all the narrator/protagonists' talk of being Muslim, a woman, an educated woman, in a country desperately trying to find its way after colonization, the first of multiple wives, I get a sense of a person living in a world which was not strictly made for their benefit. Theirs is the burden, not the fruit of the labor. But theirs is not a state of perpetual victimhood, but of support, stoicism and dignity.
until one day, suddenly, her husband marries a second wife, a very young girl, the friend of his own daughter!So many customs revolt me in this book, testimony of a time and a country:The polygamy which is the knot of this long letter;The survival of a gentry which I thought was outdates, but which rebels when the son does not marry in his rank,"Royally welcomed (in her family), ...
Mawdo marries the young girl and Aissatou immediately asks for a divorce.In Ramatoulaye's case, her husband of 25 years falls in love with his daughter's best friend and betrays his family by marrying that young girl.
Even though it can be a very flowery language that sometimes annoys me, it was necessary for me to get re-acquainted with it again."Pour vaincre la détresse quand elle vous assiège il faut de la volonté.
Quand on pense que chaque second écoulée abrège la vie, on doit profiter intensément de cette seconde, c'est la somme de toutes les secondes perdues ou cueillies qui fait les vies ratées ou réussies.
But this is only 90 pages, and it deserves to be re-read someday when I'm older and can connect more fully to the narrative.
Soon it becomes apparent her grief hides more than just pain over his passing, it's also an older pain from 5 years ago, when he took a second wife, a younger woman, and left Ramatoylaye and their 12 children behind.
The love between Assiatou and Rama is extraordinary, and their friendship is presented as a bond stronger, in ways, than the bond between husband and wife, even between mother and child.
Cela pose bien sûr beaucoup de questions sur le rôle de l'école coloniale qui a fait l'éducation de Mariama Bâ, mais passons pour le moment...).Mariama Bâ y aborde des thèmes sur lesquels j'aurais gagné à réfléchir mieux et plus jeune : ce classique des littératures "francophones" est avant tout un indispensable pour les lecteurs en français, qui examine la place de la femme dans une société en modernisation, les rôles respectifs des hommes et des femmes dans la perpétuation des structures patriarcales, les rapports entre grands bourgeois/ nobles et petit peuple, le rôle de l'instruction, et en filigrane la décolonisation et le double héritage du Sénégal.Le récit est pris en charge par Ramatoulaye, qui écrit sa Si longue lettre pendant la période d'isolement que lui impose le deuil de son époux, Modou.
I'm overwhelmed by how brilliant this little book is. Crème de la crème of not only African and feminist literature, but literature in general.
Αυτό της δίνει την αφορμή μέσα από μία σειρά γραμμάτων προς την αγαπημένη της φίλη να γράψει για τη ζωή και τις σκέψεις της.
Μέσα από αυτά τα γράμματα περιγράφει τη ζωή της κάτω από το βάρος των παραδόσεων που θέλουν τις γυναίκες να έχουν δευτερεύοντα ρόλο και την προσπάθειά της να ξεφύγει από αυτό το στερεότυπο.
Παρά τον τόνο του το βιβλίο είναι βαθιά αισιόδοξο μήνυμα που περνάει είναι ότι στο τέλος είναι στο χέρι των ίδιων των γυναικών να αλλάξουν την κατάσταση και ότι μπορούνε αν πιστέψουν στις δυνάμεις τους να διεκδικήσουν μία ισότιμη θέση στην κοινωνία.
Extraordinary concept - Senegalese narrator writes a long letter to a childhood friend detailing how both suffered when their husbands (for very different reasons) took on second wives.
Alas, the epistolary structure, which I was excited for, let it down a bit.
There was not much logic to the idea that Ramatoulaye was telling her friend her own life again (the narrator apologizes for it at one point), nor did it make sense that she was giving detailed information on Senegalese customs to a countrywoman (I loved reading about those customs, but it created a bit of a believability gap).
We hear the voice of a woman trapped inside the social confines of Islamic sub-saharan Africa.
Hers is not a campaigning, revolutionary stance that calls the brave minority of islamic women to the barricades but rather one that empathises with the position of the vast majority who decide to accept the traditions, concentrating on the positives and on the raising of their children, despite the negatives and chip slowly away at the cruelties by showing more kindness and understanding to their offspring.
I haven't liked a book this much in a while and I'm feeling so much love for women all around the world right now.
Despite how scary it would be to have a stranger just walking in.So Long a Letter is a letter by a woman recently widowed to her best friend.
The letter illustrates, among other things, polygamy, and how it affects women.
It is such a raw and touching letter, in which we learn how women truly feel, and how women, while still repressed in Senegal, are taking some steps in the right direction.A warning to men...you are not always painted in the best colors in this book.
Mariama Ba uses Ramatoulaye and her friends and relatives to show what life is like for women in Islamic society, the effects of polygamy on women, and how politics affects the life of women.
I know that the field of our gains is unstable, the retention of conquests difficult: social constraints are ever-present, and male egoism resists.Instruments for some, baits for others, respected or despised, often muzzled, all women have almost the same fate, which religions or unjust legislation have sealed." (p.93)Toward the end of the book we even get to see how circumstances are slowly changing for Ramatoulaye's daughters as attitudes change and Senegal becomes more westernized.
the plot dragged in some sections, and that combined with the ambiguous writing resulted in some parts of the book being really difficult to get through.3) i don't think formatting this story as an epistolary novel was a good idea.
i wouldn't write to my friend and spend pages describing her brother or something like that; rather, i would say "remember that time he did such and such?" and my friend would instantly recall that event without me having to describe it as if she didn't know her brother better than i do.
Through happy and sad times we are always there for one another as these two women are- always loving- always right there even if our choices/ decisions are different.The particular cultural forcus of this book presents a very interesting twist- The genisis of the letter- when one of women's husband has passed away and the letter recounts her emotional struggle with his actions prior to death.
In this book the emotional struggle of discovering there was now a co-wife was very interesting to read about.
The different ways in which both women delt with their situations.
Une lecture incroyable, portée par une écriture très belle, qui dénonce le sort des femmes au Sénégal : le rapport à l'autre, au mari, la polygamie, le dévouement, le veuvage... C'était puissant, universel, révoltant. J'ai un livre d'occasion : la personne qui avait lu ce livre auparavant avait souligné plusieurs passages. Je me suis sentie en communion d'esprit avec elle lorsque les mêmes passages me révoltaient, m’émouvaient, me marquaient... et que je cornais ma page pour conserver cet instant et converser avec elle.
A beautiful glimpse inside a woman's heart.
Absolutely loved the book. It is concise but pregnant with meaning. The book is in the form of a letter written by Ramatoulaye in Senegal to her friend Aissatou living in America. In the letter she chronicles, challenges they have gone through as women and how they have adapted or overcame the challenges. The book touches on a lot of feminist issues, including, love, marriage and divorce, polygamy, friendship, raising kids alone, extended family, politics, modernity vis-a-vis culture and religion.
