https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10818853-fifty-shades-of-grey
In short, it says “…women are raised being told by parents, teachers, media, peers, and all surrounding social strata that:· it is not okay to set solid and distinct boundaries and reinforce them immediately and dramatically when crossed (“mean bitch”)· it is not okay to appear distraught or emotional (“crazy bitch”)· it is not okay to make personal decisions that the adults or other peers in your life do not agree with, and it is not okay to refuse to explain those decisions to others (“stuck-up bitch”)· it is not okay to refuse to agree with somebody, over and over and over again (“angry bitch”)· it is not okay to have (or express) conflicted, fluid, or experimental feelings about yourself, your body, your sexuality, your desires, and your needs (“bitch got daddy issues”)· it is not okay to use your physical strength (if you have it) to set physical boundaries (“dyke bitch”)· it is not okay to raise your voice (“shrill bitch”)· it is not okay to completely and utterly shut down somebody who obviously likes you (“mean dyke/frigid bitch”)Now how do these two examples relate to FSoG?
So I was thinking to myself, oh, maybe there's a possibility that even though this is a twi-fiction rewrite, and even though everyone makes fun of it, it could still be a fun little guilty-pleasure read that I can laugh along with.NO.NO.NO.NO.This book is NOT:- erotic/sexy- funny, even ironically- endearing- full of sexual taboosThis book IS:- repetitive- plotless (well, you knew that)- painful to get through- depicting manipulative, controlling, and self-destructive as desirable- how to not write a novel- how to gain success by using other people's characters, barely changing them and then laughing all the way to the bankMost people know about the twilight matchups so I'm not going to go into too much detail, but it was actually quite sickening, how lazy she was to change ANY story details:Bella Anastasia, a clumsy girl who grew up in Arizona Las Vegas with her mother, then moved to Forks Vancouver, Washington where her dad stepdad lives, while her mother lives with her new husband in Florida Georgia.
What in the hell just happened? Did I really read that? Oh, my god, I did. I did read that. Meet Anastasia Steele: Ana is just a giant mess of a human being. She's insecure to the point of it being laughable, 'klutzy' (even though she only trips twice in the entire book), and a complete ditz. She's a virgin (of course) who's never taken any sexual interest in anyone before. Right. I'm fairly certain there hasn't been a woman this naive since 'round about 1954. At one point, she thinks putting h
I went back and counted, and kept track throughout the rest of the book, and do you have any idea how many fucking times Ana said "Oh my" in this monumentally bad missive?
Speaking of crap, if I ever, ever ever have to hear/read the words "inner goddess" again, I'm going to construct a pyre out of tampons and maxi pads, light it, and toss unsuspecting women into it.
How many misguided women are going to waste their lives on some emotionally retarded prick because they've read shit like this and think this kind of fucked-up fairytale will come true for them?
Think about all the things Christian Grey does in the book.
Introducing an even more abusive and disturbing TWILIGHT! Now with whips and chains!    Fifty Shades of Shit Haters, please exit stage left.I'm not sure what possessed me to pick up Fifty Shades of Grey. I thought I might genuinely like it before I started, but all I was left with was one hell of a mindfuck. Whatever it was that brought on this knee jerk purchase seems to have mercifully left me with enough common sense to say I will not be continuing on with this series.Recently I discovered
Anyway, I thought Bella and Edward's relationship couldn't get anymore fucked up than Twilight.
Ana discovers Christian is into BDSM and desires her as his submissive fuck buddy.There are a myriad of problems with this novel, many of which ironically can be found in Twilight.
Ana is in her twenties and has never felt the urge to have sex with anyone until Christian comes along with his whips and chains?!And...
When it comes to Ana having sex with Christian, well, her sub-conscious only has one thing to say,
They kiss, they sex up.Sexsexsexsexsexsexsexsexsexsexsexsexsex....oh......sexsexsexsexsexsexsexsexsex...Christian: "Do you still want me gone Ana?"Inner goddess: *growl*Sub-conscious: ...
In the words of Miss Steele, "You need to sort your shit out, Grey!" Good day, sir!Fifty Shades of Grey, more like Fifty shades of fucked up nonsense *rolls eyes* I should get a medal for just finishing this tripe.
Don’t get me wrong I wouldn't deprive women of their right to express themselves sexually, nor to act upon their desires but I shudder at the thought of women aspiring to a relationship where she will take part in various things that she is not comfortable with and at times, even when she’s genuinely in fear of taking part, simply because she finds the guy ‘hot’.The plot - I’m not even sure if there was one.
The characters are bland and merely props to set the stage for fucking weird BDSM-ing, and the plot was lost somewhere in the vagina of the author's wet dream.
And let's not forget our second main prop, Christian Grey, aka Edward Cullen, aka creepy-stalker-sociopathic-megalomaniacal-abusive-horrifying-asshole.
Let me explain in a quick paragraph how this book goes:'Girl meets some guy.
Also the hot some-guy takes complete control over girl (did I mention she thinks he's hot?) who seems to be totally okay with it.
The book is only about how some asshole wants to control some stupid girl.
But if you can't do that, at least give me an alias when you tell all your friends about that dumb kid who sent you the book about pyromania without having done any research.In some ways, having read this book, I finally feel like I identify with that vanity publisher: I read someone's irredeemable shit and hated it, but then they tried to defend it and I got so mad I broke a window with my face.(Peeps, if you think E.L. James hasn't tried to defend this shit, then you need to get on YouTube and watch some pleading vids from the publisher.)I just...I haven't read a book this awful since Revealing Eden (but let's not open that can of worms).
Are people actually parting with money for this slab of steaming garbage?I feel like this book insulted me, really.
0 stars. DNF @55%. Review edited February 12, 2015“Sex is more than an act of pleasure, it's the ability to be able to feel so close to a person, so connected, so comfortable that it's almost breathtaking to the point you feel you can’t take it. And at this moment you're a part of them. - Author unknown -I've had a rather long list of issues when I decided to abandon ship. FSoShit is garbage and if I had read a paperback I would have burned the fucking offending thing. It's a total mystery to me
It's a total mystery to me why this book ever saw the light of day because, let's face it, the writing is incredibly juvenile.
I've read a variety of erotica books and I do enjoy great smexin' that comes with some kind of depth and great characterization.
However, I'm not sorry to say that FSoG is ranking among the worst erotica books I've ever read.What's seriously bugging me as well is the fact that the general public thinks that FSoShit provides almost every woman's erotic fantasy.
When people say FSoG is “empowering women in their sexuality,” then I think something is seriously wrong.
Plus he’s just wrong in the head so there’s no need to add more about this creep.Anastasia is an immature insecure desperate idiot who wants to become the whore of Babylon.
She just wants to listen to her inner goddess (wtf?!) and have creepy monkey sex with Grey.
She’s always mooning over Grey like he’s some kind of god that she’s supposed to worship.
He tells her that he doesn’t want a serious relationship just sex and she’s still ok with it.
But who am I to judge.This book is just a desperate woman’s sick fantasy to be treated like a sex slave.
CONTRACTDated this day 28th day of October, 2011BETWEENP.A. LUPTON (reader, and fan, Fifty Shades of Grey by E L James)AndALL FANS OF EROTIC, CONTEMPORARY ROMANCEEXPECTATIONSReaders can expect to find within the pages of this book a flawless rendering of the internal, psychological struggles of a novice submissive in a BDSM relationship.
THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWSUpon signing this contract, you (the fan) agree to proceed to your nearest bookstore, or e-book retailer, and immediately purchase a copy of Fifty Shades of Grey.
I (PA Lupton) warrant that upon reading said copy a multitude of emotions will inevitably ensue.
Really.. blah, blah. On & on. No purpose, no plot, meandering for meandering's sake. I didn't finish it because, quite frankly, the 'heroine' got on my last fucking nerve. The writing style is atrocious and I can't fathom how or why so many people love this tiny slice of interweb fan fiction garbage.
Rating: negative sixty septillion starsIt's National Book Lovers Day! A day to bask in the amazing power of books to inform, amuse, educate, and alter our views and viewpoints.
I don't brag about a lot of things, but my review skills are one of the few things I will brag about.E.L. James read my review on this book and she loved it SO much, she decided to go ahead and write the book.
***E.L. James: Hello, Colleen Hoover!
I saw your book review on Fifty Shades of Grey and I loved it so much, I decided I would write the book.
Someday when you finish this book, you'll know what it's like.***A few months following the above email exchange, Fifty Shades of Grey released and E.L. James became a sensational author.
Okay… I realized by people's comments that I never said exactly what I thought about this book. Well, I loved it. I've now read it four times. Christian Grey ranks right up there with Travis Maddox in my book boyfriend world. This series is addicting. When I need a good read this is my "go to" series. I didn't know what to think about this because I wasn't sure how I felt about BDSM… but this is sooooo much more than that. One of the BEST love stories I've read to date.
now, i'm not likely to ever see the movie, but i will say it's pretty ballsy to cast the romantic lead - a character who ties up ladies for erotic enjoyment - with the actor that many people only know as the character who ties up ladies for erotic enjoyment ...
- just know that this is very hot topic bdsm - by which i mean the subculture fashion store at suburban malls, not that it is very topical and jodi picoult will write a book about it.
i don't know - i wanted to write a much better review for this book - there was so much i wanted to say, but i am feeling lazy right now.
But Ana makes it clear early on that she doesn't want that kind of relationship, that Christian is "fifty shades of fucked up", that the way he behaves isn't right, but is actually the result of an abusive upbringing.
However, there are two things I can say about this matter in Fifty Shades of Grey: 1) it really isn't that kinky, and 2) for the most part, this isn't really a BDSM relationship (I don't think the author actually understands what one is).
But Fifty Shades of Grey is about 10% BDSM relationship and 90% bad writing that just fucks with your head until you're not sure what the hell you're reading.
Paging through this "published" version makes me more embarrassed for the author than I was when it was in the fanfic domain, and it DEFINITELY made me lose respect for The Writer's Coffee Shop.Most distracting is the schizophrenic voice of the main character, Ana. In one paragraph, Ana's words sound like those of a quasi-literate teenager; in the next paragraph she uses uber-literate words like "gamine".
Un-self-aware or articulate?Add in culture confusion: Ana is supposed to be American, but the author (who is from the U.K.) keeps having Ana use Britishisms!
I wasn't even sure I wanted to write a review, because it seemed too difficult to put into words everything that moved me about this story and to try to do it justice.This ended up feeling like one of the best and most authentic romances I have read.
I had a pleasant feeling of anticipation as I read, but I was also extremely nervous, because real BDSM sub/dom books are not my thing, and so while I was falling increasingly in love with Ana and Christian with every new page I read, I was also terrified that I was going to be jarringly yanked out of it all and the whole experience ruined for me by some kinky and needlessly over-the-top BDSM scene.
I feel like there is a deeper meaning behind Fifty Shades of Grey then just BDSM and sex but the huge downfall of this book was the writing.
I can see both sides of the fifty shades argument.
There are points in the book where I can see abuse but there are also points where there is none.
I just hate the fact that if people enjoy this book they are labeled as "pro-rape advocates" or "pro-abuse".
STOP IT.
Stop trying to belittle others, everyone is entitled to their own opinion.
You may not agree but don't hate, we are all readers here!
ONE HUNDRED BILLION NEGATIVE STARS Well, I think it’s safe to say that I’m buying myself a chastity belt and am joining a nunnery. This book has put me off sex for ever and ever.I know I said I was never going to touch this with a ten-foot pole, but then this happened: Basically, my co-blogger dared me to read the books after a joke about the author, or I was never allowed to diss the books again.… the joke wasn’t worth it.This piece of shit, this sorry excuse for a book is without a doubt the w
“The Submissive will ensure she achieves a minimum of seven hours sleep a night when she is not with the Dominant.”“The Submissive will not snack between meals, with the exception of fruit.”“During the term, the Submissive will wear clothing only approved by the Dominant.”“The Dominant shall provide the Submissive with a personal trainer four times a week in hour-long sessions.”"The Submissive shall accept whippings, floggings, spankings, caning, paddling or any other discipline the Dominant should decide to administer, without hesitation, enquiry or complaint.”“The Submissive shall not touch or pleasure herself sexually without permission from the Dominant.”“The Submissive shall submit to any sexual activity demanded by the Dominant and shall do without hesitation or argument.”“The Submissive shall not look directly into the eyes of the Dominant except when specifically instructed to do so.”
Ana has mentioned a dozen times about how she doesn’t want Christian to buy her things.
Bad Book Is Like Other Bad Book ShockAt a standing-room-only press conference earlier today, top researchers from the world famous Goodreads Center for Bodice-Ripping, Bondage and Twilight Studies revealed that a bad book was quite a lot like another bad book."When I saw the final results of the data analysis, a cold shiver went down my spine," said the Center's director.
Expressing it in layman's language, what we have here is basically that this bad book is similar to another bad book, which in turn closely resembles a third bad book.
The implications are literally mind-blowing and we're still trying to understand them.
Well, that was me while reading this book, I couldn't concentrate to get anything done :)There are a lot of reviews on this book, and obviously the majority love it, so I am simply going to explain some of the reasons that this story grabbed hold of my heart and wouldn't let go.First, I am a total sucker for the tortured hero and you would be hard pressed to find a hero more tortured that our own beloved Christian Grey.
LOL - I myself finished this one and jumped right into Fifty Shades Darker because like I said, I can't get enough!!
This is what you're getting from reading this book:  C-Christian  and A-Anastasia  C-Hi! A-Hey:) C-you virgin? A-Yeah:/ C-Shit:S A-y? C-nothin..coming? A-where? C-playroom?:3 A-lol kay!! C-swag A-yolo

I can understand how her vulnerability could make you warm to her, but it just made me frustrated more than anything.The attraction between Christian and Ana was intoxicating and I was invested in it for sure, but the way that Ana was written really let her down in my opinion.
I'm sorry but what??Her completely contradictory behaviour - wide eyed innocence and being totally petrified by Christian's sexual tastes but thinking it's hot at the same time.
I can't believe my review is getting so many likes 9 months after reading this book.
(WTF??!) Another aspect I did not get was how Ana repeatedly accuses him of having commitment issues, but throughout the book it was her that had one foot in the relationship and the other foot well outside of the door.
I honestly thought I would not want to read about BDSM, but surprisingly that aspect didn't even bother me all that much until the end (view spoiler)[The hard spanking scene was just cruel, as intended, and beyond disturbing!!
I love the Fifty Shades trilogy! I've read this book so many times and each time I enjoy it as much as the last. It's one of those books that doesn't really need a review. Christian Grey will always hold a special place in my heart and on my list of book boyfriends <3
The first time I tried to read Fifty Shades of Grey, I almost threw the book out of the window. I read the first 10 chapters and gave up. I have a really hard time DNFing a book. I'm always curious to find out how things will end, even though I have an inkling about how things will go. I can't claim to have great taste. I was one of those crazy Twilight obsessed teenagers. Yeah. So I said to myself, 'Okay, I'll try give it one more shot.' Time spent reading is never wasted. Maybe I was wrong, m
The first time I tried to read Fifty Shades of Grey, I almost threw the book out of the window.
Maybe I was wrong, maybe the book isn't so bad.
There are so many things wrong with this book, that I don't know where to begin.
Well it's like the song says: No words.
I fail to see the appeal of Christian Grey.
For many women, Christian Grey seems like the epitome of female fantasy.
Why was Fifty Shades of Grey treated like it was groundbreaking?
I'd like to end on a good note, because it's Sunday.
This book definitely had its good moments.
As many of you may know, the publishing house Vintage recently purchased the erotic romance series 50 Shades of Grey, written by E.L. James, for a seven figure sum, thus allowing her to benefit from the Chancellor's recent top rate tax cut.
I'm sure he'll be delighted to take responsibility for that.This book, originally published online as Twilight fan-fiction, has angered many in the literary community, especially those who feel that the author exploited fandom and copyrighted material for her own personal gain.
A simple search-and-replace on names seems to have been the maximum work done to the text, as evidenced by Dear Author's comparison between the book and the original fan-fiction, available on their site.
https://youtu.be/qYY2CUxzgE4the rant to end all rants ⬆pretend to be surprised.
https://youtu.be/qYY2CUxzgE4the rant to end all rants ⬆️pretend to be surprised.
