https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13027304-the-hunger-games-tribute-guide
Before reading:No.No.Please.No. I don't want to go through the pain again. The nostalgia has already taken me in!Nostalgia proceeded to shove this book in my face and told me to read the damn thing for his sake. During reading:After reading:I hate nostalgia.
My real rating is more 1.5.If I didn't get a discount because I work in a bookstore, I never would have purchased this.Essentially it's pretty pictures from the film with some cursory commentary.
I would say 1/3 of the book is just pictures of the tributes.
It's not a behind the scenes type of book, but at least give us something new to the audience.I would only recommend this to the super fans.
As a fan of the Hunger Games (and as someone who is super excited for the film), I don't think it's necessary to own.
Well, I like it. It gives you a better look on the tributes and the Capitol. There are also some pictures from the movie itself. I'm not going to give it five stars for it's not  that  good.
Een leuke extra voor The Hunger Games! Lees hier mijn recensie:http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
I bit boring because it's just stuff about the tributes but useful.
I freaked out when I saw this at the bookstore for around 6 dollars.
I did enjoy all the new pictures and the way the book was set up.
It is a nice refresher for someone who hasn't read the book in a while.
I did enjoy seeing the pictures of what Katniss' bedroom will look like at the capitol and all the pictures of them training.
It was money well spent for 6 dollars.
Recommendation: I do not recommend this book for readers, who have not read the actual Hunger Games book.
If it is a book on the Hunger Games, you can bet I am going to buy it and drool over it.
It has color photos of each tribute with little facts on each one leaving the reader with no more information than what we started with after reading the series.
While it is great as a refresher book to remind us of the original story we have already read, it wasn't something that really added to the experience.
The photos were the only added bonus but not enough to make me really excited.
I hereby pledge to confirm my Hunger Games geekdom by reading (and owning) all of the companion books!Like most companion books, there isn't too much meat to this one.
It's beautifully designed and loaded with gorgeous pictures, but it feels like it's written for a reading level that's below the age of the movie's target audience.
I was a little disappointed that this book didn't contain much information that wasn't overtly obvious in the movie.
It would have been great fun to have more tidbits about the tributes that wasn't relevant in the movie.
Rating: 2.5 starsI read this book in like 30 minutes. It was really short.Going into this I thought that it would provide me with tons of insight on the novel such Panem, the districts, the tributes. But I felt it left me with nothing. I felt it just gave information the books already spoke about. This didn't really add much to the trilogy.
KATNISS, lewiś come here please
Every year the Capitol of Panem hosts an event called the Hunger Games where two "tributes" a boy and a girl are drafted from each of the twelve districts to be brought to an arena and fight to the death.
This year, unfortunately, Katniss's little sister is selected for the Hunger Games, so Katniss volunteers to take her place.
After they got selected, Katniss and Peeta are whisked away to the Capitol to prepare for the Games and primped for live TV.
If you like a lot of talking and suspense and action then this book is perfect for you and mostly everyone has or is reading it so that's how good the book is
This book is pretty pointless to be honest. Doesn't really bring anything new to the books. A lot of the book consists of pictures of the tributes and it says their name, age, district, etc. I wouldn't recommend this book really, unless it's for movie merchandise collection purposes. I do have to say though, that someone I know absolutely fell in love with the book, so you might want to check it out.
It's obviously just a recap of the beginning of the book with pictures from the movie, but I love the layout and everything. I honestly just picked this up again to meet my reading goal for the year, but it was nice to reread it!
I think this book was great. It contains a lot of information from the movie. BUT other tribute names were not specified. But other than that its amazing.UPDATE: 5/26/15 I just finished Mockingjay and I can't stop feeling heartbroken everytime I see ts book. I don't know why :(
I really enjoyed learning about all the different tributes and what District they were from. I found the page saying what all the districts supplied and did got the Capitol quite interesting! If you liked The World Of The Hunger Games you'll enjoy this!
I was thinking maybe there would be addition content that we didn’t get in the book, but there is not.
This would be a good “fan” book for movie-goers and perhaps even a refresher for readers that may not have read the book in a while.I was hoping that perhaps we would get names for all of the Tributes.
I realize that many in the books did not have names, but since this was a TRIBUTE book… I thought it would have been very cool addition!If you eat and breathe Hunger Games, than this is a book for you.
A pretty rudimentary taste before the movie comes out.
It's like a super mini summary of HG #1 right up until Katniss emerges out of the tube into the arena.
If you're looking for a super detailed look into HG, it's not here.
As for it being a 'tribute guide', it really is just a head shot of all 24, plus age, height, district of origin, and if their name is mentioned in the book, that as well.
I could complain about that, but these are brutal books, and the less you know about the 16-18 tributes that die pretty quickly, the better.
If you watched the movie without reading the book, this is a decent replacement. You don't learn anything new from it, though information is a lot more organized.
I was expecting this to be a lot better. It's like a cheat sheet for non-readers.
This book is presented as an official tribute guide and it feels like it came straight from the capitol, where kids would buy this and read it, quoting things from interviews and discussing favorites with each other.
The Hunger Games, to me, is a story about what could be, about the cruelty of humanity and the fact that we enjoy watching others suffer so much.
It's not a far stretch to imagine that we'll be watching kids fight to their death in an arena, that we'll collect their stickers, buy mugs with their pictures on it and so on.In the Hunger Games we watch Katniss fight all this.
An interesting read, I think that the book was designed as if it were to be read by citizens of the Capitol. I already knew pretty much everything in the tribute guide from reading the books and watching the movies, but it was from a different perspective which was nice.
And instead of following "the tributes' journey from the Reaping to the Games" like promised, we only follow Katniss' and Peeta's journey; not bad, except that their journey only includes things that we've already read about.I was upset to find that the "detailed information on each district's industry" is actually just a sentence or two about each district, and that except for a handful (under 12), even the "never-before-seen" photos--while nice to look at--were already available for free online weeks before the book came out (months, in some cases).
After reading this book I believe that no new information about the Hunger Games.
For more reviews, check out www.readingtsinoy.blogspot.comImagine Caesar Flickerman writing an introductory book on the Hunger Games and its tributes.
Here District 12's stylist Cinna is singled out as he is known as a bit of a renegade and a true artist who is tasked to make over the tribute to watch: Katniss Everdeen.The Tribute parade is then described in detail with everyone in awe of Cinna's creation: The Girl on Fire.then the Training Center.
get a copy for your own enjoyment and satisfaction.for more reviews, please follow me at www.readingtsinoy.blogspot.com
Overall Tribute guide is fun to read, to get pictures and kind of re-live the movie through the book!I have a hard time getting enough of the Hunger Games I know alot of people have too much but not me, like so many books its easy to get entangled in the world of the Districts.My favorite District from the Hunger Games District 11, both Rue and Thresh are awesome.
Rue because of her kindness and Thresh for letting Katniss go because of Rue. Love Love if you love the Hunger Games as much as me this is worth the read.
Kauft es euch bloß nicht!Das Buch habe ich als Mängelexemplar in der Buchhandlung gefunden und bin sehr, sehr froh darüber, denn den vollen Preis kann man sich dafür wirklich sparen.
In diesem "Handbuch" wird eigentlich nur der erste Film nacherzählt - na ja, zumindest bis zu dem Punkt in dem die Tribute in die Arena kommen, denn danach ist Feierabend.Man lernt nichts neues über die anderen Tribute, weil es Erstens: nur um Peeta und Katniss und Zweitens: eben eine einfache Nacherzählung ist.
Selbst über das Kapitol oder Cienna bekommt man nichts neues.
Die ist wirklich schön und mit den Bildern aus dem Film nett aufgemacht.
I bought this when I was going through my Hunger Games phase (I can assure you I am no longer obsessed).
As a huge Hunger Games fan I loved this little book.
The pictures were great and it gave you lots of information on the tributes and other aspects in the book.
However, I think we all know this is just another silly little money maker and, well, it doesn't really tell you anything you don't already know.
Anyhow, if you want to buy it, go ahead.
Don't let me stop you, and anyway, I DID actually really enjoy reading it (well, reading the few words scattered throughout the book).
Another book of the hunger games count me in.I love this book because it shortens the hunger gamesFor each chapter in the hunger games it has a little summary of each chapter.This book has some details of each tribute in the hunger games.I recommend this book to anyone who does like reading that much and to people who feel like reading the hunger games book again but in short version.
This was cute for a fan of the series, or a collector of merchandise revolving around the books or movies. I enjoyed having the pictures of each of the tributes and what district they were from since it is all so chaotic in the movie that it's hard to keep them straight. If you've seen the movies or read the books it will seem a bit redundant.
Holy mother of throwback. This was interesting to read. It brought back memories of when I read The Hunger Games in the fourth grade. It was my gateway book. Forever grateful for that series, and always to Suzanne Collins.
