https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375802.Ender_s_Game
Too many centuries of evolution are working against them."Keep in mind that this book is supposed to take place in the future.
So if this is supposed to be in the future, does Card think that women will give up their ability to fight so easily?
Valentine and Peter start planning to 'take over the world' by writing fucking debate columns.
Then, switching back to Ender, who is now nine years old and a commander of his own kid army, we have our main character turning into the bullying idiots that bullied him in the beginning of the book.
Now let's get to it.Was it because the expectations I had in my mind were unreasonably high and thus were responsible for ruining the book for me?
1) Bad plotting: It didn't take me long to realise that after I was past Ender's arrival at the Battle School, every - literally every chapter thereon until his return to Earth - was more or less the same thing.
Apart from Ender's claim to intelligence (which is never completely explained, by the way) there is nothing, NOTHING, that is worth justifying him as the protagonist of one of scifi's supposedly best books ever.
They call us children and they treat us like mice."If you can't understand that statement, you probably won't like this book.
Not miniature adults- their motivations, understanding, and some-times naivete clearly mark them as children.
It is not an easy book for anyone who understands childhood to be a happy time of innocence.
It is an easy read, but not always a comfortable one.I'd recommend this book for intelligent children.
Also I recommend it for adults who used to be that kind of child, even if science fiction is not your usual interest.
All I can do is report on the contents of the book and those I can thoroughly recommend you check out.The main character, Ender Wiggin, through whose eyes we see the story unfold, is a child genius.
Additionally the inclusion of female and Muslim characters whilst not front and centre was fairly progressive for 1985 (not ground breaking but certainly ahead of the curve).This is actually a book with good messages (for the time) about equality, and one which poses interesting philosophical questions about what happens with races with orthogonal thought processes come into contact, and how far one can or should go in such situations.There definitely is some characterisation going on.
The film skips a lot that's important to the book, but I found it entertaining.EDIT 2: Orson Scott Card reviewed *my* first trilogy.
I suppose this book could be some kind of manifesto for misfit nerds who waste their life playing video games or a source of legitimacy for motivating tired Marines sick of drilling (The book rambles on infinitely about the boy genius Ender and his laser tag in a zero gravity vacuum.) I also suppose we could kid ourselves into thinking the novel brings to light the necessity of Machiavellianism in conflict or maybe we could discuss the pathetic New Age garbage the book ended with as our annoying protagonist spreads some half crocked neo-religion amongst space colonies in which you love the enemy you are forced to annihilate.
In short: they should present a complex, strange, many-faceted, and never dumbed-down world, because presenting a simple, one-sided, dumbed-down world both insults and stultifies a child's mind.However, if someone were to say that this book were a childrenized version of Starship Troopers, I wouldn't sic a poodle on them.
So it's a pretty good book for children, and like romeo and Juliet, it's easy to see the appeal: kid defeats bullies and plays videogames to save the world(in one of the sequels, they save the world by making angry comments on the internet--surprising that one isn't more popular here).
Also, the idea of how a hive-mind would think differently, without language, and the complications of communicating with someone like that, that's brilliant also.I wish it had been revised--that the battle scenes were clearer, that the movement of the novel's action, the way the 'buggers' are in a race to try and communicate with Ender before he kills them, that this were more obvious to the reader, and not a surprise whipped out at the end, so that it could have lent tension to the scenes of the games and manipulation, which were only boring.
i think 'ender's game' is the only book i've read three times.
so for someone like to me read a novel twice, not to mention three times, is really saying something [and yes, i realize the inherent snobbery in that statement].i've thought long and hard about what makes 'ender's game' so appealing.
i sure would.but i think the real appeal for 'ender's game' comes from the belief that we all want to believe that there's something uniquely special about us.
and whenever i read 'ender's game' there's a small hope that it just might be true.
In this, the definitive edition of Ender's Game, there is almost nothing earned within the plot.It's a decent story, but for a book with so many events there is very little consequence or risk, and the character development is so linear and stale.
Instead the unexpected developments we get are humorlessly absurd, like two prodigies fooling the world with a fake op-ed column that earns them political power.
If you were hoping to have the hours you put into the book validated with some real emotion at the end, well, neither this author's definitive edition nor any other is going to help you.
If I fail my exams this week, I blame this book.Ah Ender's Game, how you have sat on my bookshelf for over a year before I got to you.
I'll list off the pros and cons to this novel and you can decide.Pros:An adorable main character.
Ender Wiggins just pretty much kick this Katniss chick's butt.
Now, I shall move on to the cons:The lack of romance.OMG WHO AM I SUPPOSE TO SHIP NOW?
I find romance takes away from such a masterpiece.Just to be clear, there are no cons to this book.
What follows is an emotionally complex and at times painfully familiar story of children struggling to accept their inner demons.
It is this combination of gifts that may make him the commander the fleet needs in it's war against the alien invaders, but only if Ender can find a way to survive the burden of understanding his enemy so thoroughly that he can no longer see them as "the other," but as a reflection of himself.
This book is thought provoking, emotionally complex, and ethically challenging.
Polemical indeed  BEST SCI-FI'S NOVEL CONTENDER? I decided to read the novel basically because the incoming film adaptation (it was "incoming" at the moment that I read the book) and I wanted to read the original book before of watching the film. I am aware of the controversial opinions about sensitive social subjects, but I want to keep that out of this and only commenting about my impressions about the book itself. First of all, I doubt highly that the film adaptation will be so crude in cert
I am aware of the controversial opinions about sensitive social subjects, but I want to keep that out of this and only commenting about my impressions about the book itself.
(and I wasn't mistaken about that) And commenting about the shock made for the book, it's obvious that it's provoked due that the protagonist is a child.
Now, children have all the access to internet just like this "futuristic" story sets, and now kids got "mature" very quickly, not a real maturity per se, but the exposure to so much information in the web and the interaction on social networks, forums, blogs, etc...
Once upon a time, there was a tiny 6-year old boy who all the other kids picked on.
Also he spoke and thought not like a 6-year old boy but as a smug 30-year old man with a fair amount of unresolved bitterness toward his childhood.I finished this book very quickly, not because I am a misunderstood supergenius toddler, but because if I lost any momentum at all, I'd put this book down and never again be able to screw up the energy to deal with the pretentious little prick known as Ender Wiggin.
Oh why can't he find a teacher who can teach him something he doesn't already know!"I was also continuously distracted by sentences like, "They pushed his face backward into the door." What does that mean?
Lots of people have already read this book, and it's pretty much universally acclaimed, so it probably doesn't really need another review.
So I just want to point out one thing that bothered me both times I read it (with a decade at least in-between at that):Isn't it weird how much time the kids in this book spend naked?
The entire time Ender is at Battle School, Card constantly tells us how everyone is always sleeping naked, or walking around the barracks naked or jogging naked.
And one of the major fight sequences happens in the shower, and Ender's opponent strips down beforehand so they can both be naked.
This was a really good book.
On its surface it is a great story about a young boy who goes through tremendous struggles.
On another level it is a brilliant psychological character study and an observation of group dynamics.
On still another level it was an intelligent allegory for violence and bellicosity in ourselves and our society.
There is a listopia list that calls this the best science fiction novel.
Mmmmm, maybe.
I have heard where military organizations have assigned this for cadet reading.It is very good, certainly high in the running and on a short list of best ever.
225 pages about a boy playing video games, battling in zero gravity, and learning about how military works?
I wish even one of the characters actually acted like a kid, or a human being at least.
I suppose there are some interesting ideas about military training, manipulation, and leadership, but I admit, I mostly found myself bored to death by numerous battles, which I couldn't visualize, and it's-so-hard-to-be-the-bestest-ever-genius whining.Listening to the author's speech at the end of my audio book didn't endear me to him personally either.
P.S. I did have a blast reading reviews about the author's obsession with naked, soap-lathered little boys.
and what does that cord attach to??"and of course, all that it has to say about the role of ethics on the military and about the suppression of the individual in these circumstances is gorgeous.and if you like this book, be sure to check out o.s.c's many review of snacks and other sundries:this one is pretty informativei am sorry this review is crap, but i am supposed to be studying for a midterm.
plus, almost everyone has already read this, so it's not like i am discovering anything here.
نخست آموزش‌ها جنبه «بازی» دارد...؛‏ «اندرو ویگین» حتی میان نوابغ دستچین‌ شده نیز گل سرسبد، و برتر از برترین‌هاست، او برنده ی همه ی بازیها و برخلاف خواهر مهرورز خویش «ولنتاین»، و برادر دگرآزارش «پیتر»، دارای تمام شرایط لازم و کافی، برای انجام ماموریت مورد نظر است.‏ درعین حال او چنان باهوش است که می‌داند وقت رو به پایان است.
That was an incredibly inspirational possibility that I clung to for years after reading the books for the first time, and that I still cling to when I feel like I don’t fit in somewhere.“I think it's impossible to really understand somebody, what they want, what they believe, and not love them the way they love themselves.”My copy of this book is tattered.
Be they child or adult, this book will make them feel less alone.
And if you yourself are different, if you march to the beat of your own drum even when the world demands your silence, read this book and feel understood.Original review can be found at Booknest.
That was the biggest mistake of my reading life.The book is way better than the movie.
I know you've probably seen that phrase a million times, but I can't fully express how it truly applies to Ender's Game.
I'm going to be honest and say that I hated most of the overhyped books here on goodreads, but the hype that Ender's Game received's truly deserving.
It lived up to my expectations, and continued to amaze me as every page went by.The character development in this novel's truly astounding.
It's original [for me at least] and the ending truly depicts that the author's not done trying to destroy Ender's humanity.
The reason I gave this book 1 star, and have given up even trying to read it, is because I do not like Orson Scott Card.
We're told what Ender feels, and does, and says, and why, and despite supposedly being in his head, I don't understand or like him at all.
I don't know, and frankly don't care all that much, but it just feels like we're supposed to just go along with the story that implies that different = bad and must be killed.
Apparently, in the future, the earth is threatened by bug like aliens who are going to kill all the humans, so the international federation, for some reason not clearly explained, takes really smart little kids (instead of say, an adult) to a battle school where they play battle games, video games, etc.
I guess the big kicker in the end is that the final video game little Ender plays was actually real, and he defeated a billion bugs and yay the world is saved.
Not my cup of tea. Considering that the author probably intended the reader to sympathize with the main character, I disliked the main character way too much, right from the start. Also, many people will probably disagree with me but I think this book is rife with the author’s personal prejudices. Off handed comments about women and different nationalities just threw me for a loop, left me wondering why they were included when they offered absolutely nothing towards the story. Additionally, I disliked the dialogue, slang, and boring characterizations.
Go figure.Back to the story...Its protagonist, Ender Wiggin, is just six years old at the novel's beginning and still a pre-teen by the time the story ends.
His brilliant older siblings, Peter and Valentine, have all kinds of promise, but still don't have what it takes to be considered for the commander that the International Fleet (I.F.) so desperately needs.The novel asks an important question: What does it take to successfully lead men into battle?
Ender is only 12 years old when he begins commanding his fellow soldiers, earning their respect and ultimately their fear of him.The centerpiece of their education is a game that simulates battle.
I love you forever!”Most readers of this review who have any interest in SF have certainly known of this book for years.
So the story relates how the humans are preparing to meet this invasion: by identifying, through very early childhood, young children who are believed to have a particular ability (postulated from results of the first wars) to command in, and win, the ultimate war.Children identified are taken to space, to training facilities, starting at ages around five.
The quote above is taken from very early in the book, when it’s decided that Ender has passed the pre-training phase.
That said, I wholeheartedly recommend Ender’s Game not because I think it’s better than Ender’s Shadow (I don’t), but because Ender’s Saga is fantastic (especially the next two books in the series, Speaker for the Dead and Xenocide).
The premise of Ender’s Game is interesting (training the brightest minds to fight the war against mankind’s greatest enemy); however, it’s just as interesting to look at the social and cultural changes on Earth.
For that, we have the perspective of Ender’s two siblings, Peter and Valentine.
Overall, I found Ender’s Game to be a fun and entertaining read!
I am so thoroughly disgusted with this book that I can’t even logically explain my utter revulsion.
(hide spoiler)] How is that different from any other conqueror rewriting the history to suit them?If this were a normal review, I’d remark upon the failed, nonexistent characterisations, the lack of character growth or lessons learned, the lack of actual challenges overcome (how can he overcome anything when he never fails?), the lack of plot that isn’t told in short paragraphs as in passing.
But this isn’t a normal review and I’m just going to link you to better articles about the story itself.
It is an absolutely engrossing tale of a small boy involved in a big war, filled with heartache and camaraderie and betrayal and cleverness.The problem is that Orson Scott Card hates queer people and liberals so much that he's written a number of novels entirely about how awful they are.
He is a hateful bigot, and I can no longer read his books without remembering that.
(it's an excellent essay, and I highly recommend taking the time to read it).Ender's Game is a book that's really satisfying while you still feel that the whole world is against you.
Outside of the Harry Potter series, this is the book that taught me reading is fun.
It was first assigned to me over winter break in high school and I re-read twice since then (this is also one of the first books I ever re-read).
I just remember getting that feeling that the imagination is limitless and you can make anything happen in the world of fiction when I first read this book.
It's just one of those books that brings me back to my childhood and always puts a smile on my face.
No quotes, since my copy is in French, and I can’t be bothered to pick one, but if you head over to the big deconstruction over at Something Short and Snappy , you will find plenty (as well as Alex’s hilarious commentary.) The authorial bias is very prominent (view spoiler)[ in fact, given how much time Card spends jerking off his protagonist’s metaphorical cock, it’s no surprise Ender stays a virgin until his mid-thirties.
