https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32198.The_Secret_of_Skull_Mountain
Yet another fun adventure from the Hardy Boys mystery book series.
The resavior is located on skull mountain.Along with the water disappearing, there's been a lot of weird things going on on the mountain.
Such as sightings of black smoke, but when you reach it, there's nothing there.Skulls randomly appear , either thrown at you, next you when you wake up, or even look away for a couple of seconds.There's been many spottings of a skinny man with long frizzy hair that ends up stealing cloths from a member of there group.
Is the weird man have something to do with the water disappearing at night?
read the book to find out what the Hardy's and the engineers figure out about the secret of the skull mountain.
I came across this old Hardy Boys book, and before I gave it away to a kid I decided to read it again.
I'm a middle-aged man, and it was fun to read a Hardy Boys book again, decades later.
I was surprised how much I liked it.
The suspense was still just as good as it was before, and of course it didn't take long to read.
I had to chuckle at the notion of two teenagers foiling the best-laid plans of adults with money, but what the hey, it wasn't hard to set aside my disbelief in exchange for a couple hours of entertainment.
I really enjoyed this book. It was very scary and suspenseful. Chet always comes in and saves the day. When Joe and Frank get captured in the airport Chet is there to help them get away. I really liked this book and would recommend it to people who like scary and interesting mystery books
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
Another engaging story.
At heart I'm a boy from the 1920s-40s. ^_^
The only Hardy Boys I ever read, but it's the first book I remember becoming engrossed in that wasn't a comic book.
I thought this book was a very good book. It is filled with mystery, adventure and a little bit of humor every now and then. the part that I liked the most in the book was when the George joe and fleetfoot venture out to skull mountain and find an hideout for the bad guys. overall this book was very well thought out and is great for people who like to read mystery and adventure books.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
When engineers ask for the help of the Hardy's in figuring out how water keeps vanishing from a new reservoir by Skull Mountain, Frank and Joe get more danger than they could have bargained for! Dixon will have young readers on the edge of their seats in this entry!
I really liked it. It is a lively adventure with mystery with danger
Action from the start! This one is so great because of the setting. I love the Hardy Boys books where they’re in the woods exploring and find secret caves and stuff. This one fits that!
Standard Hardy Boys story. Pretty predictable, but a good break from work.
Read it to see if maybe it’s a series I should recommend to my kid. I always hear so much about the Hardy Boys. I have to say I was underwhelmed. It wasn’t bad, but it wasn’t wow.
Action, adventure, danger, our hero's Frank and Joe Hardy... pretty much what one reads the Hardy Boys book for.
Really love how Joe cradles that skull on the cover.Good story about a heist of water. Engineering power!
Sailor Hawkins almost dynamited the roof of a cavern above Frank, Joe, Dick Ames, and Bob Carpenter.
Frank and Joe found out that crooks were using a tunnel that went underground from the lake to the sea to deposit the water.
Sailor Hawkins and Tom Darby decided to try to scare them off the mountain by planting skulls everywhere.
This is how they scared Frank, Joe, Dick Ames, Bob Carpenter, and the guys working on the reservoir.
Sailor Hawkins had put a skull on the path so Joe stepped on it wondered what it was, picked it up, and screamed too!
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
As seen in the enjoyable award-winning family film, The Legend of Tillamook's Gold.However, it was this edition glimpsed for a moment in the main characters hand.But, I like the artwork used for this particular edition.
Entry 1-The main characters and protagonists are Joe and Frank Hardy. The antagonists are the people who make lots of Bayports wter disappear at night.Entry 3-There is no real setting. the point of view is third - person.Entry 3-The detectives Frank and Joe Hardy help their famous father on the case. The Hardys have to find out who is draining the water and where Dr. Foster is. It looks hopeless, but the hardy's capture the prisoners.
The boys go on a camping trip in the mountains. But when stuff starts to happen the Hardys must find the answers. When skulls come rolling down the mountain. Chet ( Hardy Boy's friend) started to get scared.
Another reread of a childhood favorite.
This review is of the original 25 chapter book.
SM
Light fluffy mystery adventure, as well as being a small time capsule of the time period.Little too much running back and forth, but a fun story with an interesting mystery and plenty of action.
In this one they have to figure out where the water is going. I like the tension and suspense.
Genre: MysteryQuarter Two
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
Picked this up because Davis is reading it in "Physical Credit.""Oh boy, Frank and Joe are in quite the pickle."
