https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145107.Literary_Essays_of_Ezra_Pound
There were aspects of each essay in the collection (edited by T.S. Eliot) which glimmered with stunning poetic vision.
There were also serial rants, an ugly approach to pedagogy which illuminates if not anticipates some of the more malignant spiel Pound would later deliver for Mussolini on he radio.
I'm listening to one of those ugly broadcasts right now as I type.Pound's meticulous analysis of meter and melody are always undermined by his frothing certainty.
mystic fog shrouds much of history.
I would recommend these essays especially those on Henry James and James Joyce.
Pound.
The essays in this book and elsewhere (the letters too) are so entertaining: a cross between Mark Twain, H.L. Mencken, Flaubert, maybe the Goncourt brothers.
Pound's acidity is aggravating at times, but this is part of the fun and anyway maybe we need to be aggravated (he always ends up paying us for it anyway).
In the end, he continues a tradition of American essay writing that begins with Emerson: peripatetic, condensed attempts to lasso sentences together in an attempt to make a symbol, image, figure, whatever you want to call it.
Lots of fun. The essay, "How To Read" is one of the very best literary essays ever written by an American poet. Way beyond the ABC's of reading, this essay simply rocks. Worth the whole book (though there is a lot of good stuff in this book). Try it.
I have only read the first section of this: "The Art of Poetry," but wish I had come upon it sooner. In particular, the two essays, "The Serious Artist," and "How to Read," are absolutely excellent.
Sin embargo, lo que puedo dar como opinión es una sensación muy placentera de haber tenido la oportunidad de acercarme y conocer una gran cantidad de poetas, escritores y artistas hasta ahora desconocidos.
Es una fuente grandiosa de referencias de grandes poetas, escritores y artistas de la más alta calidad y que han logrado hacer la diferencia y alcanzar una calidad inigualable desde la perspectiva de E.P. que con su estilo rebelde y dedicado al arte por encima de los intereses de los medios y editoriales presenta a muchos de quienes el considera se deben leer si se tiene la aspiración de ser un poco cultos.
Eliot has trifurcated Pound's essays conveniently: (1) The Art of Poetry, (2) The Tradition, and (3) Contemporaries. Included in the back is a profitable index with authors, works, poetic devices (such as 'assonance'), and subjects (such as 'American fiction, the mediocrity of'). Pound's first three essays alone — 'A Retrospect' (1918), 'How to Read' (1929), and 'The Serious Artist' (1913) — demonstrate why he is one of the 20th century's greatest critics. These essays are invaluable not only be
In 'How to Read', the second crucial essay, Pound posits forth his three kinds of poetry: melopoeia, phanopoeia, and logopoeia, which (as the title clarifies) are serviceable not just to poets, but also to the 'casual reader' (a term Pound uses often).
Pound devotes over 100 pages to the troubadours of Provence, whose Old Occitan poetry, he writes, impacted modern European prosody more than the classics.
Pound even translates 32 pages worth of important troubadour poetry for 'the casual reader' to imbibe.
Essays such as this also frustrate, though: Pound claims to write for the 'casual' or 'general' reader, yet in the essays he refuses to translate 12th century Old Occitan poetry.
It is not necessary to read the whole book.
In fact, I discourage reading much of his criticism (Parts 2 and 3) unless one reads the criticized first, with some exceptions.
Even if you haven't read Dante, Homer (translated), or the troubadours, I recommend reading these sections.
I recommend reading all of Part 1.
In Part 2, his writings on the troubadours, Arnaut Daniel in particular, Dante, and the Renaissance are excellent.This book also serves as a resource to discover good writers from a variety of periods and locations.
Maybe then I can revisit this book when I am better read.
Okay, I didn't finish this bk, but as I've already returned it to the library, I should chalk it up here and say a few words. It's an exceptional book, but a lot of it pertaining to authors I either haven't read or whose work is too closely studied for my level of interest. There is one chapter, about the general practice or writing,however,that I loved for its sparkling prose and clever comments.
Experiencing this book has been an education, for which I am immensely grateful. My fascination and curiosity of Pound have increased markedly; I feel as if I can finally 'dig in' and appreciate this man's enigmatic works, instead of remaining intimidated to the point of repulsion.
Pound's thoughts about the nature of reading, the beauty of life, the importance of scholars and artists to the well being of a society make me completely woozy.
Some of the essays on writing are fantastic, but how Pound's 'book reviews' pass for literary criticism is beyond me.
fra le altre meraviglie di questo libro, un paragrafo intitolato _traduttori dal greco: primi traduttori di omero_
