https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2173076.Deathworld_2
Unfortunately there’s only very little of my favorite Meta to be seen here, but instead you get the most irritating character in the whole series, an orthodox believer in Truth (with a capital T), justice, and a universal notion of ethics; a real piece of work in short.
Is teaching your own morality to a society that acts totally immoral (in your eyes) always the best course of action?
But no worries; there’s plenty of action in the book too, and Jason is developing into some jack-of-all trades from who even MacGyver could learn a thing of two.
Wrong edition.
Mine is the Librivox recording (available here for free)read by Gregg Margarite with the original title of "The Ethical Engineer", but it's still Deathworld 2.
Again, it's a mental palate cleanser, this time after reading The Road, a pointless novel in a post apocalyptic setting.This was good, but varies quite a bit from the edition I remember reading as Deathworld 2.
It's shorter (25%?), cut off at the end, although the conclusion is the same.
The very end was a bit better, if inconclusive.
IIRC (view spoiler)[ she just breaks the idiot's arm in the book.
(hide spoiler)]
This happened with some of the later STAINLESS STEEL RAT books (I stopped reading them because of it) and it’s happened here in Deathworld 2.In this case, Harrison wants to show us that people who believe in some sort of Truth are just wrong.
First by making Mikah, Truth’s proponent (and an obvious Straw Man), a ridiculous idiot who gets frustrated with Jason and keeps resorting to calling him names such as “Limb of Satan.” Second by defending his no-Truth argument merely by having it said over and over by a character we’re supposed to think is smart and knowledgeable because he’s suddenly a brilliant engineer.
It seems that the Deathworld Trilogy by Harry Harrison is about a series of barely inhabitable planets.
The first novel was about a world where all the plant and animal life were intent on killing the human inhabitants.
In Deathworld 2, we have a planet with humans descended from some past crash landing.
Here, he is joined by Mikah Samon, who had come to arrest Jason.
Jason, however, sabotages the space ship meant to take him to trial; and the ship's computer crashes the ship on the inhabitable planet of [Not Named].
Somehow, Jason manages to get rescued, and the obnoxious Mikah ...
Harrison has a vivid imagination, but sometimes it overshadows his ability as a writer.Most disturbing is the philosophical battle between science and religion, caricatured in dinAlt and Mikah: dinAlt is the courageous non-believer, a strong, intelligent, practical man who uses science and reason to solve his problems and uses a humanistic ethical code to inform his decisions (in fact, the novel was first serialized under the title The Ethical Engineer), while Mikah is portrayed as a stubborn, dogmatic zealot with backwards logic who never succeeds in doing more good than harm.
Jason dinAlt was finally adjusted to the heavy-gravity planet of Pyrrus and has a girlfriend among the trigger-happy denizens of the human population of survivors.
But the long arm of the law is still after him and he's kidnapped via trickery and ends up, after a malfunction, on another dangerous planet.
This time, the danger comes from other humans in a very primative "dog eat dog" society.He's immediately made a slave and has to learn to survive and possibly escape back to Pyrrus.To do this, he has to jump a number of hoops and that's one of the things that slows the story down.
The first book is much better and more interesting than this one.
This book reminded me A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court by Twain in some way.
I wonder how he knew all these things?
If I am asked about chemistry, electricity, etc I will not answer even if my life depends on this.
Ok, maybe I am mistaken, I am better in liberal arts and cannot be a specialist in this.
But my husband is an engineer, i asked him if he would be able to do everything Jason did and he said "mostly no".
Painfully short but good all the same. It doesn't have the interest of the first in the series but it's good to see how Jason manages in a dog-eat-dog word rather than a dog-eat-man world.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5There was something inexplicably fascinating about Harrison's pulp science fiction Deathworld.
His abilities and experiences from the Deathworld don't seem to contribute to his character here, and for the most part the events of the first book might as well not have happened.
This really reads like it was a separate story entirely - not of Deathworld origins - and Harrison spent spent a few minutes swapping out the original character's name with Jason dinAlt and throwing in a few references to justify the common title.
The characters are a farce, mere vehicles to move through the landscape.
Apparently, this book is the second book of a series.
I feel that I would have enjoyed the book more and given it at least another star if I had read the books in order.
I had 20 pages left by the time I had found out it was book two in the series.
"Ijale crawled over and settled herself against Jason's side, shivering with cold and fright.
'Relax,' he said, 'from now on this is just a pleasure trip.'" (End of chapter IX page 83)I was very disappointed that Jason did not give Ijale that booty beat down.
Nová planeta, tentokrát o hodně méně smrtící, ale s otrokářskou společností, která je technologicky ve středověku a zbytky původních tajemství si střeží jako úzkostlivé tajemství. Ale přijde Jason a postupně zavádí vymoženosti své doby. Skoro mi to přišlo jako cesta v čase. A nešlo se ubránit dojmu, že kdyby se to stalo mě, tak jim parní stroj určitě nevylepším...Pořád příjemné čtení.
2. Jason dinAlt has become one of my favorite fictional characters.
Through Jason dinAlt, Harrison brings forth a commonsensical viewpoint to world affairs.
Even though they are set in an alien world in the future, the elements of his stories are obviously inspired by the state of affairs of our world.
They are relevant to their particular time and place and taken out of context they lose their importance""Just think of the different planets that you have been on and the number of weird and wonderful ways people have of reacting to each other—then try and visualize ten rules of conduct that would be applicable in all these societies.
Probably the most difficult task for an artist is to create a wonderful piece of art, then to attempt a sequel.
The burden of making it equal to or better than the first must be overwhelming, as most artists fail to meet such a goal.
This second novel is saved by the interaction between Jason and Mikah.
Consider an exchange between the two:Mikah: Better to die free than live in chains!
Jason: Better to live in chains and figure out how to get rid of them.
Though not as suspenseful as Deathworld #1, the sequel is still worth the read.
The main character from the first book is pulled away from the planet he arrived to and saved in the first book and crashes on a new one ending up a slave.I did not get the setting on the planet and understood it only when I had read a summary of the story.
Two-thirds into the story I came to the conclusion that it would not be better.
Nothing nudged me to continue reading.
The setting, based on what I read in the summary could have been a colorful one, but it never hit me as such.
I apparently had read it before under the title of Deathworld II but did not realize this was a book that I had read until about a third of the way in.
Despite having forgotten much of the book and having read it before, I did enjoy the book very much.
It was a really fun short read, and I would highly recommend it.
You should read the first Deathworld book before this though because this book takes place a bit after Deathworld I and involves the same character.
Deathworld I is just as awesome and possibly more so.
The main character could not possibly know as much as he does in this book. It was unrealistic and pulls you out of the story. I did enjoy the first book but now Jason it just a know-it-all about everything from philosophy to automobile repair to telecommunications and bomb disarmament.
Taking Jason off of Pyrrus and onto a new and difficult world produces fun results. Ultimately, the book is a little weaker than the first, though it does bring up interesting concepts and showcases the dangers of unshakable dogmatic belief.
Period piece, about a stranded engineer who escapes slavery multiple times, improves a crude steam engine, has long and one sided arguments about situation ethics with a zealot, and is finally rescued by his super strong gal lover. Sexist as heck, natch.
Harrison’s DW2Maybe the least of the Deathworld trilogy, but boy, would most authors give away their left arm to reach this level of competency and entertainment!
Jason deLin gets trapped on another planet of primitive screwheads, whom he cockily outwits again and again.
Characters continue -- also a worthy fun read.
Loved the story. Greatly written.
Неумението на Мика да се впише в това различно общество само подчертава безсмислието и безполезността на философски и религиозни приказки за морал и етичност.Втората книга от поредицата освен страхотно сървайвъл приключение е и истинска ода, истинска възхвала за превъзходството на науката и логическото мислене, които процъфтяват в лицето на "изобретателя" Джейсън, попаднал на планета, където все още хората вярват в магии, докато другите ги дирижират с научните постижения.
Би ли могъл да си представиш десет правила на поведението, които да са в сила за всички тези общества?
Ти живееш в свят от кухи, лишени от значение факти, които не съществуват реално.
Unfortunately before he can present this great business idea to the folks at Dragon's Den, he's captured and whisked off to face justice at the hands of righteous fanatic, Mikah.This guy is ten times more righteous and indignant than a Daily Mail reader and in a strange way he's what steps this book up from the opening adventure in the series.
(If I ever find myself on a Deathworld where turnip cultivation determines my survival, best just bury me with a simple headstone.)It's a brutal, slavery-based society which Jason sets out to overturn by instigating all out warfare.
Science now is a mythical religion, their keepers have become priests.In this world, Jason rises from a slave in a collective of gatherers to an adviser to the "lord of electricity".
The message is the power of science.There's a second more interesting message that is contained in the original serial title "The ethical engineer".
Repeatedly, he thwarts Jason's plans because he cannot accept theft, murder, revolution or betrayal as means to a justified end.
This idea of ethical behavior as a hindrance and the original concept of degenerated science are the reason for the third star for this second volume that otherwise doesn't distinguish itself by better writing.
There is absolutely no character development (you could completely remove the main character and replace him with pretty much anyone--Jim DiGriz from the Stainless Steel Rat series, Abraham Lincoln, Buzz Lightyear, anybody--and it would have no bearing on the actual plot, just maybe on the dialogue.And the dialogue is what makes it really unbearable.
But it gets worse: it should be easy to spoof this Mikah character, but Jason's position is just as ridiculous in the other direction (no absolutes, all morality is contingent, blah blah...) but the book (author?) doesn't seem aware of any possible problems with this position.
(One of my favorite episodes of Firefly wasn't based on a few sentences near the beginning of this book, but it very easily could have been ;-).If you approach it with a more adult mindset, you might be as appalled as the prig by Jason's cavalier disregard for the wars that will almost certainly follow from his actions.
On the other hand, you might be appalled by the lengths Jason goes to to keep the prig alive and kicking ;-).
Jason dinAlt is busted and carted away from Pyrrus (Deathworld) to face justice on the casino world he cheated in the first novel.
Harrison has his extremely pragmatic hero puncture both the extreme selfishness of the slave society and the brainless self-righteous idealism of the extremely priggish cop Mikah.
I would have enjoyed a novel where there was some tension between Jason's pragmatism and Mikah's idealism, but that would be a novel written by a writer who was actively trying to work something out.
Not as much fun as the first in the series, or Harrison's Stainless Steel Rat books I enjoyed years ago.
Interest and adventure are occasionally dragged down by the idiotic moralising anatagonist, and the hero's counter-moralising.As is often the case in a Harrison novel, the hero is the cleverest man in his world, and a clever enough man for any world.
Everyone who dies as a result of Jason's efforts was a murderer, or having a really bad life as a slave to a murderer.
Jason's only alternative is to live and die a slave.
But sometimes he's having too much fun.
Having finished it, I still can't decide to be honest.Again we are following the adventures of our hero Jason Din Alt but this time we finally get off Pyrrus.
Jason is hunted down by a man seeking to bring Jason to justice for crimes on another planet, determined not to be taken he sabotages the ship he is aboard so he can get away.And there his problems begin.He is made a slave several different times, shows his knowledge of technology and rises to a slightly higher status.
