https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/458191.Escape_to_Witch_Mountain
(At the beginning of Escape, Tony and his sister Tia have just suffered the loss of the grandmotherly woman who’s cared for them as long as they can remember.
Okay, and some unusual: Tony can get an accurate picture in his head of any place he hears about, even if he’s never been there in his life; Tia has total recall, going all the way back to her toddler years.)If “yes” to the above, do your magical powers manifest in morally upstanding ways?
Good writing but way too abrupt ending. Sadly all the best scenes in the movie aren't in the book. But on its own it's very charming. Just missing something.
When I was a kid, the movie Escape to Witch Mountain, and its sequel, Return from Witch Mountain, was on television all the time.
I had never realized it was based on a book.
Opening this up was like settling into my grandmother's recliner with this and Tom Corbett, Space Cadet novels.
(I was quite well-read as a child, thanks to my grandpa's old stash.) It has all the feel of that type of novel, especially since my copy, through inter-library loan, was quite old.This little book is completely fascinating and not at all condescending to its audience.
It's a great complement to the movie.
I read this once a super long time ago. It wasn't my favorite, but that's mainly 'cause this genre just isn't my thing. :)
All they need is one trustworthy adult to believe and help them in their quest to find their people.Not only did I enjoy how this handled the "humanity through the eyes of extraterrestrials" trope, but I also appreciated the themes of open-mindedness, moral courage, and compassion that this stressed.
A friend of mine told me that reading this novel as a child helped to foster her lifelong love of science fiction and fantasy, and I easily can see why this would be the case.
Funny how it is with these Goodreads recommendations. If you read this, you'll also like this! And I look at the books and think - oh, yeh, I read these. This is one that looks oh-so-familiar, cover and all. I think I got it AFTER the movie from the 70's came out. (Considering the cover, that would be logical.) I think I liked the movie better. Could be wrong on that one, but I remember really liking the movie and really wanting to be Tia.
I read this book aloud to my 10-year-old daughter. She loved it. I thought it just OK, at best. Key is a serviceable, if not inspired, wordsmith. The story was rather one-dimensional. I would have found it more enjoyable if the book had focused more on the character of the kids and their gradual uncovering of their abilities, and less on the mechanics of the chase.
Quick, fun sci-fi/fantasy read for children and early teens. How orphans with mysterious abilities find help...and a way to their own people...is a great adventure in a simply-told manner.Originally written in 1968, it is dated, certainly, but somehow that doesn't seem to matter. :)
One of my favorite books as a kid.
Escape to Witch Mountain has always been among my favorite Disney live-action films, so when I saw this book at my local library, I had to give it a try.
It's without a question one of the best books I've ever read; the plot is simple but not simplistic and the element of suspense was terrific.
Its profound questions will haunt you long after the book's end.
Read it as soon as you get the chance!Side note: if you've watched the movie, there are some major differences.
But unlike other instances when I've both read a book and watched the film adaptation, I don't necessarily hate the differences.
Holds up pretty well any worthy for nostalgia.
Wow, very different from what I remember about the movies. Almost wish there was more to it. It was a good adventure though.
Loved the movie as a kid (and just picked this up for no real reason), but man, most of the adults in this book are the worst.
Key's novels focus on young people who have special abilities and who are from other worlds.
The theme is obvious, that people of this world can be cruel to outsiders or anyone who is different, but there are also a few who will help and accept you if you search for them.
As a kid who was sometimes bullied, this theme was particularly apt for me in my teenage years.
I identified with Tony and Tia in their search for people who would help and accept them for who they were, not fear or hate them for being different.
Saw the Disney movie well before reading the story, but it must be said the villain has a bumbling Disney-esque style.
My daughter enjoyed it well enough; I found myself focused on the lack of technology, even though these aliens are more connected with mental powers.In the end, the story was plausible (first landing in Hungary, chased out by the Communist take-over and now hunted by elements of the US government ...
The Disney movie reduced the political aspects by giving Lucas Deranian a millionaire boss instead.
Sequel movies and a TV series pilot followed; the book also has a sequel.
Such a blast from my childhood! I had a vague memory of seeing this movie in the 1970s but never read the book and really didn't remember the story. It felt like I was seeing the very beginnings of E.T. and Harry Potter. My only complaint is the ending. A definite set-up for another book, it really left me hanging.
The Disney movie made from this was a big part of my childhood.
I liked it, it was fun to visit this universe again, but I think I prefer the movie ;-)Or, I grew up. O.ONoooo, nononono, that can't be it.
This book was first published in 1968 but it's still quite a sweet and interesting story.
I don't remember this book all that well, but it was one of my favorites way back. I loved the adventure.
A couple things were different: (1) Jason O'Day in the movie was Father O'Day in the book.
He brought some Christian themes into the story which I thought were very nicely done (the whole "God made us so who's to think He cannot make people on other planets too?" theory) (2) Tia cannot talk in the book.
Something to do with their alien language and Tony is actually the unusual one who can talk.
Overall, the characters are not very deep, but Tony and Tia have a good relationship and Father O'Day gives a positive impression of pastors.
The story overall is interesting but for me it failed to deliver.
The pace was fast which was good because if it was slower it would've become boring very quickly.
That being said, there are aspects of the story that could have been explored further to make it more enjoyable.
Especially the ending as it wrapped up very fast.One more thing, the way Tony and Tia communicate is similar to how Lana and Conan communicated which felt a bit repetitive.
I know that I saw the Disney film when it came out in theaters -- probably 1975 or 1976, although I had the impression it was 10-15 years earlier -- but I could not recall the details. After reading the book, however, it seems the film was only loosely adapted from the original, with the protagonists' names unchanged. I wonder, if I watched the film again, whether I would enjoy it as much as the book. (Probably not.)
I was told this wasn't a series, that there wasn't a sequel. That really sucks. I have too many other To-Reads to be adding to it. Oh well. I want to know more! I want to know about Tony and Tia's people, their past, how they got there... I love Father McCoy. He's bad@$$. I can't wait to read the second book. It better have some awesome answers.
Loved this storyI grew up with the movies and always loved this tale. Having found out it was based on a book, I knew I had to read it. I wasn't disappointed. I can't wait to read other books by Alexander.
I really enjoyed reading this as I love the movie- growing up watching it on TV. I am not familiar with the era the book was written in (communism being mentioned) and has clearly aged but never less I liked the book.
This is a great young adult adventure, when twins find they have special powers that may mean the two of them are not really from earth. The two find themselves in trouble as they try to figure out where they belong and what their role is on earth.
I was obsessed with the movie as a kid (the oldest ones). The book has the same pull for me.I do wish we could have seen more of their abilities and just a tad bit more about them. But there's a second book that will likely handle all of that.
Not as good as the movie, and the ending left a lot to be desired, but it was a quick, enjoyably nostalgic read.
I read this when I was a kid (6th grade?) because I loved the movie. I seem to remember really enjoying the book, too!
