https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659388.Nobody_s_Fool
I loved Nobody's Fool just a shade less than Empire Falls, although I liked Sully more than Miles.
There were a lot of similarities between the two books, the rundown New England towns, and the characters - what holds everything together is Russo's incredible prose.Nobody's Fool takes place in upstate New York from just before Thanksgiving in 1984 and ends after New Years Day 1985.
He lives upstairs in Beryl's house with his few possessions: "he'd always felt owning things was overrated.
While he may bitch about how he’s spent his life working like a dog and yet doesn’t have to pot to piss in there’s also a feeling of general contentment about Sully.
(The scaled down plot of the movie actually works better as a story.) It’s still a terrific book with a lead character that you can’t help but like even as you wish that he’d wise up just a little bit.
I’m fascinated by the idea of small town America.
Ok, I’m probably being a little harsh on small towns in my own country here, or maybe I’m taking too romantic a view of what small town America has to offer.
Either way, this book offered up what felt like an idea candidate to help cement my rose tinted view.
Not much of any consequence happens.It’s a long, slow book that’s held together by some minor adventures and a whole load of verbal jousting all of the characters actively engage in – brilliantly sometimes.
There’s really little else to it than that but in saying this I know I’m selling the book short.

I've read a few of Richard Russo's books and I don't understand why he doesn't have a statue on the National Mall.
Of all his books, Nobody's Fool is, by far, my favorite.
And Sully, the main character, is, to my mind, an American hero.
I keep trying to find another character in literature to compare him with but, to Russo's credit, Sully is a dead-on original.
Russo's empathy for Sully and his razor sharp and yet gentle wit bring Sully to life against the backdrop of a depressed, upper NY state town and the characters that only such an environment can produce.
(From Miss Beryl Peoples, on everybody in North Bath)>><<>><<>><<>><<This is it: another great story from Richard Russo that could be concluded with the Billy Wilder's quip  "Nobody's Perfect!"  , but the real value is in the time spent getting to know and living in the shoes of the hard-pressed, resilient people of a small town that could be anywhere on this Earth.I usually only add one book per author to my favorites shelf, in order to avoid overcrowding, but how can I pick between this and "Empire Falls"?
My third read by Richard Russo, the Pulitzer Prize winning author of Empire Falls, did not disappoint.
This story about the bordering on foul mouthed, hard drinking, and slightly womanizing curmudgeon who is set among a quirky cast of characters living in a down and out town in upstate New York is told with a sharp wit and surprisingly enough is pretty darn heart-touching as well.
I read this book in preparation for Russo's new release , a long awaited ( first book 1994) book called Everybody's Fool which is due out May 4 in which the tale continues.
The blurb: Richard Russo's slyly funny and moving novel follows the unexpected operation of grace in a deadbeat town in upstate New York—and in the life of one of its unluckiest citizens, Sully, who has been doing the wrong thing triumphantly for fifty years.Divorced from his own wife and carrying on halfheartedly with another man's, saddled with a bum knee and friends who make enemies redundant, Sully now has one new problem to cope with: a long-estranged son who is in imminent danger of follow
Richard Russo's slyly funny and moving novel follows the unexpected operation of grace in a deadbeat town in upstate New York—and in the life of one of its unluckiest citizens, Sully, who has been doing the wrong thing triumphantly for fifty years.Divorced from his own wife and carrying on halfheartedly with another man's, saddled with a bum knee and friends who make enemies redundant, Sully now has one new problem to cope with: a long-estranged son who is in imminent danger of following in his father's footsteps.
But Beryl Peoples know that Sully was a different matter, even though he had his own way of giving her the right advice.
Divorced, with an occasional lady-friend who is married, a group of friends, the person Sully is closest to is his landlady, Miss Beryl, his 8th grade teacher.Sully and friends live in a small town left behind by the progress.
Some people may find the town a bit strange, as though they’ve magically been transported across space and time to a place they never believed existed.
The characters are so real, so well developed, with real-life flaws and problems, but mostly day-to-day problems.
Russo really shines in this portrayal of everyday life in this small town.
I've long said that I don't do well with "hilarious" novels, or the kind that states somewhere on a blurb on the cover of the book that it's the "funniest thing ever".
This book is not rip-roaringly funny or even hilarious.
Russo doesn't want us to laugh at them, per se, but they sometimes find themselves in entertaining and/or humorous situations.
This is my first Russo experience, but something tells me this is just how he writes his characters - real people with real conversations in real situations.Another problem I sometimes have while reading is in books that have more than one serious storyline, occasionally I find myself being more interested in one than another.
In my mind, Russo is one of the best authors out there and this is one of his best books.
It's something about the way he combines humor, real-life situations, unpretentious people, genuine empathy, and a plot to tie it together.
Nobody's Fool has several of the best characters of all time.
Sully is hard to beat as a likably flawed, smarter-than-he-seems survivor in a seemingly small world.
This world matters plenty to the reader, though, crafted as it is by Russo.
The other memorable character is the comically unassuming Rub. He's a luckless but faithful sidekick.

I think that some people like that I am reading this most boring, interesting, and somewhat raunchy book.
My husband was a construction worker like Sully, the main character in this book, and the people in his company were like Sully and company.
My husband would drive into town to get something, and it would take him forever to get home, and when he got home he would tell me stories that he heard in town.
I will title it, Fran and the Runaway Cow: A cow got loose just outside of town and was running across a rancher's property about the same time as Fran and her husband were driving down the road in her red convertible.
But why not read this Russo classic from 1994?
Russo perfectly captures the desolation of small towns that have always longed to be something more than they are.
Towns that long for old days.
Hey, I don't remember these times, but Russo paints what is left of these towns in the wake of sprawl and globalization so effectively that I find myself longing for the good old days as well.
Russo's characters are those people you'd love to have a drink with or maybe not.
Yet when you read Nobody's Fool, you want to be friends with Sully and his crew--maybe for a day.
He's the only author I know of who can write a story where nothing much of anything happens and yet it's so enjoyable to read.
He's created his own genre---"dying small towns in northeastern U.S." He creates the most vivid, real characters of any author I've read.
You can't help but love him, and the cast of odd characters surrounding him, as they blunder through their daily lives."You missed what you didn't have far more than you appreciated what you did have.
A man could be surrounded by poetry reading and not know it."
I didn't find this to be quite as compelling as Empire Falls was, but it was damn close. Ron McClarty narrated Nobody's Fool, (as he did Empire Falls), and I ADORE this man's voice. I will be looking for more works from both of these gentlemen.
Another good Russo study of a dying town in the N.E. corner of America and the cranky, yet more or less likable, people who live there.
Don't we all know a Sully--a 60 year old wise-cracking guy with a bad knee who gets involved in everything without taking actual responsibility?
And Russo's detailed characterizations allow us to know these people so well, yet maybe we wouldn't want to know a few of them.
Actually, I grew to dislike many of them and then loved them again by the end.
Russo is simply a master at his craft.
I've loved the other books by this author (Empire Falls and Bridge of Sighs), but this one really did not grab me. Like the others, it is set in a small, dying town in upstate NY. The cast of characters here was especially unlikable and I could NOT get into the story. Hence, it took me 6 weeks to finish this 550 page epic. It did get a bit better by the end, but not sure why I tortured myself so long.
The dialogs are negative, derogatory and filthy. Too many of the characters are pathetic loosers. Mind you, I am not one to say that people should be focused on monetary success over kindness to fellow human beings. I find the book extremely depressing and totally boring. There is some humor, but it is negative too.I have listened to six hours of twenty-four and have decided to give up. I only do that if I really detest a book. I recommend this book to no one.
Third time's a charm, right?Nope.This is my third attempt at this and this time I made it to 109 pages.I'm finding it very boring and a chore to get through so once and for all, I'm out.Nowhere close to the excellence of Empire Falls, in my so humble opinion.
It has been a long time since I read "Empire Falls" which won the Pulitzer but I remembered from that book, set in a similar place that the book is long on character, short on plot.
Found out this was made into a movie starring Paul Newman.
The movie is well done, Newman was nominated for a Oscar and the other characters were also well cast.
Not your story if you are looking for breakneck action, but if you want great characters and real life, this is a winner.
I don't give too many 5 star reviews but book and movie earned it!
The one saving grace was the wonderful Miss Beryl, a sharp-witted, cantankerous 80-year-old widow: would that she'd been the main character!No such luck: the protagonist is Sully, a perpetually down-on-his-luck sixty-year-old loser of a divorcee who's spent his whole life evading any and all responsibility to anyone; nursing grudges, especially against his dead, abusive dad and his younger on-again off-again boss; and perfecting witty, passive-aggressive comebacks to everybody in his small town.
The book is bloated with way too many subplots and minor characters, too; such a criticism pales in comparison to how angry those few pages of racism, in particular, made me.But yes, in spite of all of this, Sully's repartee with everyone else so often cracked me up.
This was a reread for me and I first read it when it was published.
It was a favorite then and remains a favorite.
I so enjoyed the 10 days I spent with Sully and friends (and enemies) in the fictional town of North Bath.
Richard Russo writes beautifully about small town life and its issues.
Sully is a partially abled 60 year old, stubborn and sometimes mean, who lives with his series of questionable choices.
He has a strong personal moral code which at times confounds his friends with how difficult it seems to be to follow and how it complicates his life.
Read this book during an ill advised all nighter spent at Lagardia Airport. It kept me enthralled and removed me from my uncomfortable situation.
As I was reading it, I couldn't help but picture Jack Nicholson playing the part of Sully.
In fact, to me, the rascally Sully *was* Jack Nicholson.
In fact, I expected everyone who read the book to have the same idea.
So I was a bit disappointed when Paul Newman was chosen to play Sully in the movie.
I had pictured Sully as more of a lively and lovable rascal.
To this day, I wish that I could see how Jack Nicholson would play Sully.
4.5 / 5 stars overall5 stars for the audio productionNobody tells a story like Richard Russo. Set in rural upstate NY in the 1980s, this IS small-town blue-collar life, with all the rough edges and political incorrectness. I loved every page of this book and will read the sequel, Everybody's Fool soon. The audiobook, narrated by Ron McLarty, is my favorite so far this year.
The adventures of Sully and the cast of characters in Bath, NY make this a magnificent novel from writing genius Richard Russo. A superb story, and the film version starring Paul Newman is outstanding as well. I watch it every year.
Damn it was good to be back in North Bank with Sully and co. A re-read before I jump into Everybody's Fool. Russo is so good at capturing small town USA. This book is more problematic than I remember it being when I first read it but overall it's a joy to read.
I read this book to my husband a chapter or two at a time in the evenings, and oh, didn’t we look forward to spending our hour with the citizens of small town, economically crumbling, and ever hopeful Bath, New York.
Richard Russo’s characters are drawn with such skill and grace, I couldn’t help but love and root for every single one of them.
I don’t believe there’s a writer out there who can top Russo’s dialogue.
And then I promised myself I’d read every book Russo has ever written.
Parts of the film, Nobody's Fool, were filmed in my old home town, Fishkill, N.Y., and I ended up seeing the film before I read the book.
When I did read the book, I loved it.
The only thing that I carried over from the film was that I kept picturing Paul Newman as Sully.
Another reviewer here said that she imagined Jack Nicholson as Sully.
I can imagine that too, but Paul Newman did just fine.I guess I've written more about the film than the book.
I recommend that folks read the book and see the film in whatever order they choose.
