https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826583.If_You_Take_a_Mouse_to_the_Movies
Loved the illustrations, they were so colorful!When he made the snowman and the ornaments that look just like him, my cold heart melted a little <3
This is a fun book, especially at Christmas time, as it incorporates Christmas activities. I love the way her books always end up back where they started. What a fun way to end my year!Once again a fun book to share with the grandchildren.
But Juliaa herself said the book stinks.
First of all, I can fly with the whole 'taking a mouse to the movies' thing - could be cute so okay.
I think Numeroff sat on her couch one day, thought this little mouse dude up, drew a blank after that and said 'oh what the hell, I'll just fill it with whatever comes to mind, no matter if it makes no sense at all, people will buy it.' Well, my money is still in my pocket so thank you Appo Library.
Maybe I'm just in a pissy mood.
And, the book still stinks.
The little mouse is back from eating cookies, and it is time for the holidays!
This book is about the little mouse going to the movies during the holidays.
Instead of the mouse wanting a cookie, he will ask for some popcorn which makes perfect sense because he is at the movies!
The little mouse also loves to string the popcorn and hang it on the tree and to make snowmen.
I like how the story begins and ends with the mouse and the boy going to the movies.
I remember my little sisters wanting to read these books a few years ago.
And this is why you don't take rodents to the movies...A cute story that is about all the silly fun consequences of taking a mouse to the movies, that somehow works into a light holiday tale.
If you've been a fan of the moose books and everything that follows by this author, there isn't much new here, but the story is still fun and takes the reader off in unexpected directions.
While it's not my favorite Christmas picture book, it's still a lot of fun to read, and one to put on the holiday rotation.
We had a little guest over today so read this to her. The story circles back upon itself, though not very elegantly. The mouse is cute, of course. I don't count kids' books like this as a "2010 read" because, let's face it, that's a cheat. My standard is to count, say, every eight Dr. Seuss books as one read, which works out if you throw in a few of his older, wordier ones. Seems like an honest, fair ratio.
If you take a mouse to the movies...you may be in for an awesome Christmas. The mouse is inventive and full of energy as always, and this Christmas book is one I didn't mind reading again and again and again. The preschool book group my kids go to also read this book, and online you can find lots of fun related crafts to do with your kids. Also: indoor snowball fights using polyfil are the best!
A book my 5 yr old as well as my twin 3 yr olds loved. A solid reading level 1 book, this cute story keeps all ages engaged with the bright colorful pictures and cute story. A great addition to any children's library.
If You Take A Mouse To The Movies by Laura Numeroff is another cute book from the If You.... Series. This is a Christmas one. As always, one idea leads to another, until you end up back square one.
If You Take a Mouse to the Movies by Laura Numeroff and Illustrated by Felicia Bond(Ages 3-8) Grades PreK-2ndNumeroff and Bond are at it again. A rascally mouse gives new meaning to the saying, “if you give an inch, he will take a mile.” The little scamp wants to go to the movies, and then embarks on a string of requests that takes us through a series of winter activities. Humorous drawings set the tone for this silly book. Go to 5 Best Holiday Books for Kids at the bottom for activities for teachers/parents. https://www.teacher-librarian-forlife...
This is a cute book that displays asking and giving. The book would encourage children to think about what might come next. This one has a Christmas theme to it so it would be good for seasons or holidays as long as it is appropriate for the setting you are reading it in.
i remember reading this during Christmas time
boring
Cute. The story line wasn't as "logical" as most of the other books. Not the best of the set.
A little boy takes his friend, the mouse, to the movies.
The mouse wants popcorn and so they get some.
Little did the boy know that going to the movies and getting popcorn would take them on an adventure for the entire day.
These books are all so cute!
It's a really fun story and it cracks me up how side tracked the mouse gets and everywhere he takes the little boy.
This book could be used for teaching kids kindness, patience and friendship.
It follows the mouse and his owner through a sequence of events that includes taking him to the movie and giving him popcorn, which develops these crazy events from that point on.
This is just a silly children's book that makes you giggle at the crazy things the mouse wants to do!A lot of Laura Joffe Numeroff's books have the same technique, so you could compare and contrast the different books.
Personally, I love this book because it reminds me of my childhood and it makes me giggle everytime!
Cute and silly, but not my favorite If You Give...
book.
It's really more of an almost-3.5 but still not rounded up.
I like the incorporated Christmas holiday activities, and of course the looping activities.
I love the illustrations.
Just a bit clunkier, which made the mouse seem a little pushier somehow.
Could be a good addition for a winter or Christmas storytime.
Probably others I might choose first, but you really can't go wrong with a Numeroff book.PS - I think I have the same blanket with the red and green snowflakes that the mouse curls up in!
If you take a mouse to the movies he'll want some popcorn to go with it.
Once you give him popcorn he'll want to string it on a Christmas tree.
Everything the mouse does or you give him, he will want to do more.
The mouse wants to do whatever reminds him of what he is currently doing.
Though in the end it always circles back to what he started with.
This book is apart of a wonderful series that deals with the same concept, just different characters.
A wonderful book that I would not hesitate to read to my students.
As with other books in this series, it's essentially a cute cycle that could literally continue over and over again as the ending leads directly back into the beginning. It's a cute idea on a simple Christmas theme without completely harping on the idea of Christmas and the holiday celebrations in a more traditional manner that is common with the stories (no mention of Santa Clause, presents, or Jesus). Cute book with a simple stories for kids and simple actions illustrated with large, adorable pictures, adding to that childish draw.
If You Take a Mouse to the Movies is about a mouse who sees popcorn at the movies and wants to string them together to put on a Christmas tree.
From there, the mouse wants to continue doing Christmas/winter activities.
The main character is helping him run around and complete all these activities.
This book is super cute for winter time and is a good read for younger children.
It will give kids ideas on how to decorate for winter and get into the Christmas spirit.
You could use some of the ideas in the book for your classroom, with the help of the students.
I have always loved these books and this one was super cute like I expected. This book is about how bringing a mouse to the movies will make him want popcorn. he wants to put the popcorn on the Christmas tree, but gets distracted doing other things. when the mouse finally puts the popcorn on the tree, he wants to go see another movie. I think it just teaches kids patience and having fun. These books are always fun reads. This is a book good for grades 2-5.
(My Choice)Summary: A cute, little mouse gets the opportunity to be taken to the movies. As one thing happens, it makes the mouse want another thing. This occurs throughout the book until the mouse is finally tired from all the activities and falls asleep. Evaluation: This is a cute book that is very fun to read! The kids would really enjoy reading about what the mouse gets into. Teaching Idea: This might could be used for teaching predictions because the teacher could get the students to predict what the mouse will do next.
Around and around this story goes - the kids love this silly mouse that I am sure is ADHD and a bit demanding but that's what you get when you take a mouse to the movies: he'll ask you for some popcorn. If you give him the popcorn, he'll want to string it all together. Then he'll want to hang it on a Christmas tree, then build a snowman and a snow fort and on and on until he remembers the popcorn.
This is a holiday version of the if you give a books. This one isn't my favorite but its still good. The popcorn at the movies reminds the mouse of popcorn string which makes it want to get a Christmas tree and the list goes on. This book is creative in how it connects the movies to Christmas. I love all of these books and how it makes kids use connections to read the book.
I read this book every Christmas starting in kindergarten until third grade and each time I loved following the mouse as he jumped from one activity to the next. The book is a great way to introduce Christmas festivities and cause and effect as the reader follows the boy and mouse’s journey. I like the repetitiveness of “if you…” and “he’ll” or “then he’ll” because it reinforces the cause and effect concept to the reader.
If you give a mouse a cookie he will ask you for a glass of milk. now this famous little mouse wants to go to the movies. If you take a mouse to the movies, what will he ask for? This book would be great for a read aloud in the classroom.
Such a great book and fits with the series. We read this book any time during the year! The illustrations really make the book and the story engages the child. It's fun and the child wants to read it again and again.
I picked this book because it is funny and it will keep the students guessing of what the mouse will do next. This book would be a good way to bring up cause and effect. Everything in the book happens because of what happened before it.
This addition to the series is Christmas themed, sort of (popcorn string, Christmas tree, paper ornaments with glitter), but the cause-effect connections aren't as natural or strong as in the original story, so it seems to fall a bit flat.
Mouse is very popular with my students so I think this one will be a hit.
