https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1821571.Snakehead
الکس توسط یک هواپیمای آمریکایی، به پایگاه نظامی منتقل میشود، و در آنجا به خیال اینکه دیگر میتواند با آرامش با سربازان به تفریح بپردازد، نفسی راحت میکشد.
ولی سازمان ماموریتی تازه برایش دارد … گروه تروریستی عقرب بازگشته، و خطرناکتر از همیشه، و گروهی به نام «سر مار» هم دارو، اسلحه و بدتر از همه انسان قاچاق میکند.
سازمان، قصد دارد الکس را به عنوان یک مهاجر افغان، به آنجا بفرستد، تا در آن گروه نفوذ کند.
ولی الکس نمیپذیرد.
سازمان این شرط را قبول میکند و الکس را با کمک نیروهای مخفی و پدر خوانده اش، به دنیای بی رحم تبهکاران در جنوب شرقی آسیا میفرستد … ا.
I know the danger is fictive and I know Alex Rider will always come out of his life-threatening missions alive.
So I don’t bother to imagine an outcome with Alex Rider on his deathbed, because I know that will never happen.Still, this story terrified me.
In the past, Alex Rider had needed to infiltrate a boarding school, pretend to be a member of a couple of families and track numerous people.
Too real to pretend it’s just a story.
Even Alex felt that because he was less (but still a little bit) reckless than in the previous books.
The way Alex carries on his missions is also quite planned.
kinda boring.The author tried to make it personal by bringing Ash into the mix but I don't think that really added anything-Horowitz needs to go in a new direction with Alex.Bringing Sabina back at the end was as strained as their relationship has evidently become.
By bringing her back horowitz ruins the tearjerking moment which MAKES the end of Eagle Strike what it is.The eighth book is entitled 'Yassen' and revolves around the life of this esteemed assassin.
The author undoes this good work at the end of the book as he enjoys school once more.Where is it going?
Anthony Horowitz is without a doubt my favorite author of all time.i'm sorry i can't tell you much about what happens because i read it ages ago and I LOVED IT!MY TOP FAVOURITE ALEX RIDER NOVELS:EAGLE STRIKECROCODILE TEARSSNAKEHEAD Of course I love all the other ones and i loved reading this one, i think mainly because the evil character in this one is so different and scary sounding and the way (view spoiler)[ Major Yu dies is so gruesome!
(hide spoiler)]Also, i am always a fan of the story lines and the breathtaking escapes Alex has to take.
3.5* rating. It seems Alex Rider never gets a chance to take a break....as soon as he finishes one job he gets dragged into another! This time he takes on the crime organisation Snakehead and meets his god father and learns a bit more about the history of his dead parents. As action packed as ever with dead defying stunts and yet again I had to keep reminding myself that Alex is just a 14 year old boy!
I really enjoyed most of this book. It was a little bit boring at a few parts, but other that, it was pretty interesting and exciting.
My thoughts about the Alex Rider series changed with every book I read.
The third book, Skeleton Key, didn't have much action, but the end was a very cool part.
The fourth book, Eagle Strike, was a favorite in the Alex Rider series, and I enjoyed how things played out through the end.
But, in the end, it turned out to be a cool book.
It was really cheesey and not one of the better ones.Now, we come to what I think is the last Alex Rider book.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and was in suspence to the end.
I LOVED IT SO MUCH AND THE BETRAYAL AT THE END AND MY SHIP AND MY HEART AND *dies*
Another One!!~DJ Khalid~alrightwhere do I start from the beginning was good the middle portion was good and the ending was certainly the bestpsdkjiodihdjdncu
In this mission he has to find more about the gang, Snakehead and defuse a bomb.
This mission shows that he is compassionate and brave.
Alex cared about Ash, an agent he worked with.
In addition, Alex still wanted to defuse the bomb, even if he would have been in danger, it says, "And Alex knew he was right.
Alex is brave enough to go back to dangers so that he can deactivate the bomb and save others' lives.
In this series, Alex is compassionate and brave.
Alex cares about others and accepts missions so that he can save others.
Alex Rider has found himself in Australia working with the ASIS.
They send Alex out into the field with his Godfather Ash as a father and son duo who are looking to come illegally into Australia through the Snakehead organization.
During this Alex meets up with some old friend from MI6 who tell him that not only are the Snakeheads trying to bring people illegally into Australia but they also stole one of Britain's newest version of the Daisy Cutter bomb.
They stole this bomb because they wanted to shift a tectonic plate and create a tsunami that will wipe out a whole island and damage the western part of Australia.
THIS BOOK IS SO BRILLIANT ONE OF THE MOST ENTERTAINING MISSIONS ALEX HAS BEEN ON BUT THIS ONE WAS A 
I love, love, love! this book! It is one of my favorite series, and this book did not disappoint. Definitely read this series!
I feel like there's so much packed into this book. It could almost be the last book in the series. Anyway, I can't wait to reread the rest of Alex's adventures.
Alex needed to look like this because Snakehead deals with smuggling people into different countries, including Australia.
Alex and the agent who he was working with would be smuggled into Australia from Bangkok so ASIS would know who Snakehead smuggles people in.
When the Snakehead operatives arrived, they wanted Alex and not Ash to come with them for something, but no one knew what.
After his escape, he was able to contact MI6 and they picked him up and took him to ASIS HQ, where Alex told them everything Yu was planning to with Royal Blue.
The hospital scene was particularly dark for this series but did show the increased level of threat that the snakehead represented.This edition had the bonus chapter 'Coda' telling us how 'it' happened.
Although it did flesh out the sentence that described the scene a little, it didn't really tell us anything already stated or implied in the original sentence, except perhaps add a little ambiguity to certain things.This edition also featured an afterword by Anthony who revealed the origins and thoughts behind most of the names from the series.
Snakehead by Anthony Horowitz is an adventure spy book where a english child is taken in by MI6 and sent out into the field as the perfect disguise, a child.
Wanting to know more about his past, Alex accepts the mission and is sent off into the dangerous underworld disguised as an afghan boy with his father.
The book is an easy read with many unpredicted moments from Alex’s past catching up to him.
It is a very surprising story line with many unpredictable turnouts.
Overall it is a great book with a great story line.
This was in my opinion one of the better Alex rider books although to be fair they are all pretty similar.
This one was probably the first one that is a more scary mission.
I mean compared to what happens in this one Stormbreaker was child's play.
But it did still have that feel of the earlier Alex Rider books where he thinks he is going to be fine at the beginning but then everything changes and he get's captured.
It seems like he's going to die but then gets saved in the nick of time.
Overall an amazing book that is definitively worth reading
I love it. That is all I have to say.
this book is my favourite so far. love it
Being a spy, Alex was recruited by the Australian Secret Service to infiltrate the Snakehead, a huge underground crime organization in southeast asia ran by Major Winston Yu, an English-Chinese crime boss based out of Britain.
While in Southeast Asia, Alex gets picked by the Snakehead to fight in an illegal fighting ring, against a larger, adult boxer.
After the cargo ship lands in australia, Alex gets off the ship and contacts the Australian Secret Service and informs them about Major Yu’s plans.
The Special Task force and Alex deactivate the bomb, but Major Yu gets away in his private Yacht.
The seventh installment of Anthony Horowitz's, Alex Rider series, Snakehead was an amazing book to read and had me wanting to read more and more.
Although this book had a great story line there were somethings that I did and did not like about the book.In the book there were many things that I enjoyed.
For example I loved the fact that Alex was only around my age doing all of these outrageous and perilous things.
One last thing that I enjoyed was that this book had an abundance of adventure.
Overall Snakehead written by Anthony Horowitz was an amazing read and I recommend this book to everyone.
Snakehead is an adventurous, action novel that follows the life of, Alex Rider, a 14 year old spy.
Alex is a spy for ASIS, or the Australian Secret Intelligence Service.
Alex is forced into a shipping container without Ash, but Alex has a secret bomb and escapes from the container.
Then Alex escapes the huge ship.
Major Yu underestimates Alex and he escapes again.
While leaving he falls off a waterfall, but is rescued by ASIS.Alex Rider doesn’t change very much throughout the book.
Snakehead was truely a great book.
Another fantastic book in the Alex Rider series.
I really don't know what else to write, to make these reviews different from each other in the non-spoiler section.I think I'd only read this book once before, as a lot of what happened was foggy in my memory.
But as usual, as I read more it all came flooding back to me.I'm really excited to read the next two books, but I feel sorry for Alex.
I thought that Snakehead is a very good book.
I’m not done reading it yet but I’m pretty close.
I would like to read more books by this author.
This is one of the bigger books that I have read in my life.
My favorite character is Alex Rider, he is a secret agent trying to figure out who killed his dad.
He goes on a mission to get to an island where he heard somebody important is hiding there.
He takes a kayak and paddles down a river to go find the island.My favorite part is when he is paddling
I would like to read more books by this author.
He takes a kayak and paddles down a river to go find the island.My favorite part is when he is paddling down the river a helicopter comes and is shooting at him.
When he goes over the waterfall he gets trapped under water causing him to let the kayak go.That’s all I have read so far, I think the book makes perfect sense and wouldn’t change anything.
The title fits it perfectly because like a snake there are always watching you and that’s what Alex is trying to overcome.
This book is interesting because it is a boy who has to keep himself safe from very dangerous people like a man called Yu, which is his worst enemy.
I think the most interesting character was Alex Rider because he is a spy who had to overcome his parents deaths.
He is caught up in a whole lot of problems and has to think of a while to get out of the bad situation.
He got caught by his worst enemy, Yu, who wanted to cut his organs out and sell them.
Snakehead is a very exciting and entertaining book to read, as are the rest of Alex Rider's adventures.
In this book, Alex found himself in Sydney, Australia recovering from his last mission.
They are spying on a gang that smuggles people into Australia on a major scale.
However the leader of the gang happens with Scorpia, a company of villains who have a bone to pick with Alex.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys to read about action adventures or spy novels.
This is one of my favorite segments of the Alex Rider series, and one of my favorite books, now.
The plot of the book is about a 14-year old British boy, named Alex Rider, who found out he has a godfather.
But Alex has to take a huge chance, and go into a mission with his godfather, Ash. My favorite quote in this book is "You've got an old freind here.
I think you ought to meet." I choose this quote because here is a 14-year old boy, who has not been in school this whole year but he still has freinds who remember him, especially from the agency M16.
The author's writing style is very creative, and he uses many of those big fancy lawyer words.
I read Snakehead by Anthony Horowitz it was the best book I have ever read.
Alex Rider is a 14 year old spy and he just wants to be a normal kid after his last mission with Scropia he just wants to go back to school and does not want to be what every kid dreams about until he finds out that he is working with his godfather Ash. But this time he is working with the ASIS or Australian secret service but he can't wait to meet his godfather but at the end of the book he finds out something devastating something so bad that it could change Alex's live forever.
But if you want to find out more read Snakehead by Anthony Horowitz.
Check.
Great book?
Double check!
Snakehead is a full package book, with page turning moments, and heart racing chases.
Anthony Horowitz was able to very well portray Alex's emotions and feelings through the book.
There was always good action that kept you engaged and wanting to read.
Though, I felt that sometimes there was too much action and not enough rest time.
The novel's plot kept you thinking, as there were many key moments you didn't want to forget.
Overall, a good read in which there are a lot of complex twists.
