https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1433045.The_Last_Enemy
He wrote The Last Enemy in the interval between between being shot down during the Battle of Britain in September 1940 (he was badly burned on his face and hands, and endured multiple operations) and his death on a night flight in 1943.It's hard to believe this book was written by a man barely 23.
Hillary returns his readers to the harsh horrors of what the war against Hitler meant, and the heroism of ordinary people in Britain's "darkest hour." But the force of the book is centered on a more private myth: a privileged young man "with all the luck" who is disfigured in body but noble in spirit.
DEEPLY DEEPLY MOVING ACCOUNT OF THE EGOTISTICAL FIGHTER PILOT TRANSFORMED TO AN ARTIST/WARRIOR OF AMAZING PROMISE, KILLED TRAGICALLY WAY TOO YOUNG IN WW2. Best book of Battle of Britain I have read by far...
(There's less on the culture surrounding his recovery (The Guinea Pig Club) than I'd hoped, possibly because he wasn't in the hospital anywhere near as long as many people were.) A lot of the memoir is devoted to philosophical conversations and musings which I found less interesting, chronicling how Hillary went from seeing war and life as something purely a matter of individual striving and enjoyment to also having a moral dimension, and from seeing himself as something of a detached observer to being connected with all humankind.
Intrigued, I picked up this memoir, which is highly recommended by Faulks.This book starts slowly, and continues slowly.
He has a poignant encounter with a dead friend's widow, he screws around with the nurses at the hospital, and he observes wartime England.Because I read Faulks' biography of Richard Hillary, I gained vital information on the last relevant event in Hillary's memoir.
Faulks, in his research, couldn't verify the last event in Hillary's autobiography...
The last bit of this book really redeemed things for me.Personally, I had trouble getting into this emotion-less memoir that showed the life of someone mostly removed from the heart of infantry battle...
I read this book with no prior knowledge of who Richard Hillary was or what had happened to him after he wrote it.
Book one begins with the authors charmed days rowing and occasionally studying at Oxford, his joining the Oxford University Air Squadron, his subsequent RAF training and deployment to 603 City of Edinburgh squadron to fly spitfires, up until him being shot down.
Book two focuses on life after, his rehabilitation and the pioneering work of his surgeon Archibald McIndoe to repair his fire ravaged body, his coming to terms with life as it will now be and his realisation that some of his firm held beliefs are no longer sustainable and that some of his actions and the treatment of his friends in the past begin to haunt him.my full review here
Probably THE classic amongst Battle Of Britain pilot autobiographies.
I'm glad this book has been reprinted to coincide with the 70th anniversary of the greatest air battle of all time.
It is a pitty that no audiobook or ebook exists.
I have created a Kindle ebook from my original 1942 1st edition and have offered it at no charge to the rights holder of the book so hopefully this option will be made available.
This deserves to be read by new generations of readers as amongst all the biographies available I think that it is the one which delves most deeply into the psychology of going to war as a young man and how the experience inevitably changes you.
This book was written by a 22-year-old cad, looks or no looks.
The reason it became such a hit in 1942 is of course the fact that Britain was still at war, doing poorly and needed anything that could lift it's spirit including the story of a hero.
He was in the war as a pilot to see what was in it for him, to get material to write about.
He had a head as big as a balloon and because of it, the book is at times offensive.
It's nice to know that plenty of pilots have written about this time.
The Last Enemy is one of the best and best known memoirs of the Second World War. Hillary was a fighter pilot in the Battle of Britain who was shot down and badly burned in the Autumn of 1940.
In his own words he tells of his final year at Oxford, his flying training, comradeship, his experiences fighting Germans in the air, his accident and his remarkable recovery under the auspices of the famous plastic surgeon Archibald McIndoe.During his recovery he hears daily news of the deaths of friends and comrades at the hands of the Luftwaffe and his reflections on life, death, war and friendship make fascinating reading.
Author of The Blue Pencil, Two Families at War and Liberating Belsen, all published by Sacristy Press
(One of the most striking images of the Battle of Britain, to me, is the contrails in the sky above St Paul’s Cathedral.) The flyleaf of my copy of The Last Enemy has the oldest inscription I think I’ve ever seen in a book I own: “To Les, March 1943.” The worst of the danger had passed by 1943 but it’s still strange to think Les received this book as a gift from somebody while the war was still ongoing, when the outcome was still in play.
Hillary was shot down over the North Sea during the Battle of Britain and was badly burned on the face and hands, and the second half of The Last Enemy details his hospital treatment and recovery.
Very moving on all levels..not just the Spitfires....remarkable account written during the war all the more poignant because the impressive Hillary was killed in a flying accident after somewhat surprisingly being permitted to resume flying after suffering dreadful wounds when he was shot down.
The camaraderie, bravery and mixed reasons for the boys in blue are all there of course as are some entertaining anecdotes such as when he and other fellow students from Oxford go on a rowing tour of Germany and Hungary.
Fortunately, that man grows less self-centered and detached with more experience of war and the loss of all his early service friends.Hillary aspired to be a writer during his years at Oxford when athletics and fun were his major interests.
The graceful quality of his writing makes one regret that he did not live to write more.What he does write about here is his fun-filled college days, his friends at Oxford who joined him inentering the Royal Air Force at the start of the WWII, his training, combat in the epic Battle of Britain, his combat crash and severe burn injuries, and slow medical recovery.
In 1939 Richard joined the Oxford University Air Squadron and the RAFVR; an action that would have a dramatic effect on his life.When Britain, along with France declares war on Germany on September 3, 1939, the country was immediately mobilized for war.
Richard joins the 603 Squadron as a Spitfire pilot.
I am sorry that Richard Hillary and countless other young men, on both sides of the battle line had to pay the ultimate price for a war not of their doing but I remain thankful for the stories these men were able to leave behind for posterity.
Hillary was a student at Oxford, more interested in rowing and goofing around with friends than hitting the books by his account when WWII intervened.
He trained as a Spitfire fighter pilot and the book is split between his training and participation in battles in the first half and his grueling treatment for burns sustained in a crash for the second.
His writing style is rapid and merciless toward himself and his own failings.
At the end, he reaches the decision to write about his experiences to honor those lost.
Movingly spare and matter of fact firsthand account of the horror and cost of war.
For a war memoir, there isn't much war here. It's mostly about before he was a British fighter pilot in the time leading up to the Battle of Britain and his long recovery after. It reads as a first-person novel, but is limited by sophomoric philosophy of a man intent on not feeling much in life. It needs work. But, it does read genuine about the training, the flying and the recovering from war. For anyone who wants to know what it was like to fly Spitfires in the war, a must read. But there are much better war memoirs.
This is a fascinating and thought-provoking book. How would I have performed in his situation - a 21 year old Spitfire pilot ? The self-analysis and self-criticism coupled with the lack of self pity makes this well worth a read.
Life is to shortThis book captures life of a pilot from Oxford University from the beginning to facing the enemy in combat, surviving a near fatal crash rebuilding his life after countless operations after suffering life changing burns.
The real horrors of war exposedAmazing story of a British youth who not only saw it all, but could articulate with vivid clarity the entire experience. Spellbinding.
Then it takes his own painful recovery process, the loss of his best friends, and seeing how the ordinary civilians suffer in the war, to understand he needs to fight for a higher objective than just for his own enjoyment.
Although my older copy of the book states that the writer died in combat mission over Germany, in fact he died while re-entering the RAF and training for new missions.
His fate seem to have saved him longer than his friends, only to allow him to reflect, change his mind, write this good book about it.
This was one of the set texts on my Reading the 1940s course, and I wasn't entirely sure what to expect in reading the auto-biography of a WWII RAF pilot.
When I was discussing this course with my family my dad brought out my Grandpa's first edition of this book, which was a nice surprise!
The last chapter didn't completely fit with the rest of the book (although according to the introduction Hillary fabricated part of this section) but the rest of the memoir was fascinating.
A great insight into the life of RAF pilots in WWII, which was far from glamorous.

Published in 1942, this is the autobiography of a fighter pilot shot down in WW II.
The book gives insight into the evolution of spoilt pre-war Oxford students to battle-hardened fighter pilots.
It is funny, moving, shocking and well-written, though at times it drags on a bit.
He never knew how and when the war would end, because he never lived to see the day.
Shot down a second time, he did not survive the war.
P.S. His is one of the three lives described in Sebastian Faulks' A Fatal Englishman
To say I enjoyed this book would be an understatement.
They flew Spitfire aircraft in aerial combat to fight the Nazi invaders.
Each day they would strap in and go fight knowing they may not return.
I learned about courage in this book whether facing death under fire, or the courage to come back and fight again after devastating injuries.
However I don't believe one really knows that he is being brave when it happens, he just does what he is supposed to do.
This is a book about life, loss, recovery and courage in war.
Enjoy!
A story of the Battle of Britain told by a Spitfire pilot.
However, it is not the war story one would expect.
Hillary was an Oxford student, a member of the spoiled elite.
It was only when he crashed his fighter plane and spent months recuperating from facial burns that he realized the significance of life and the struggle they were in.
Hillary died in a training crash a few months after he completed this book.
Don't read it if you want a lot of action.
Read it if you want to learn about true courage.
Very confusing book. Not a combat story.This appears to be an attempt to write by a severely injured Spitfire pilot. The first half of the book seemed to be an attempt to use every cliche from creative writing class to describe a bunch of jerks the author knew at Cambridge. The second half is a plea for pity because the writer was burned badly in a Spitfire crash. Very little about combat and a lot about personal feelings during treatment. Put this book near the end of your list.people
Interesting book by a young fighter pilot who recalls his coming of age in the Oxbridge culture of the UK in the 1930's (rowing, traveling through Europe) and the way he experienced the war in the air. During the Battle of Britain he was shot down and heavily burned his hands and face.Half the book is about his recovery proces and the way this affects his life and thoughts. An interesting philosofical read.In 1941 Hillary took to the air again, as a nightfighter pilot, but according to contemporaries shouldn't have flown again. He crashed on this first mission and died.
This classic memoir from a World War Two fighter pilot, who sustained horrendous injuries when he was shot down over the English Channel, impressed me tremendously when I first read it during my teens. It had lost none of its impact when I rediscovered it many years later. The chapters about Hillary's experience in the RAF, and in the plastic surgery unit at East Grinstead, are written with style and a complete lack of sentimentality. Interwoven with the factual material are hints of metaphysical experience, and psychological transformation.
Well worth reading if you are interested in knowing more about the men who flew and fought in the Battle of Britain: The Few. Be aware that Hillary does not go into a lot of detail about air combat though, of course, he does discuss it; this book is more introspective, more about the person that Hillary was both before the war and how war changed him.
A good first hand account of one man in the battle of BritainThis is an introspective account of a raf pilot during the early months of England's valiant stand against the Luftwaffe. Very moving story of one young Oxford university student and how it affected his perspective on the living and dying of his friends and how his own injuries were perceived by him.
At the urging of my daughter, I stopped before the last chapter, but the intro by Sebastian Faulks rather gave away the ending. Lovely, selfless prose, unflinching, pitiless in the face of adversity.
Classic autobiography of a Battle of Britain pilot from birth, through school, Oxford and into battle until shot down in flames and his recovery from his injuries to the final realisation that he must write. A wonderfully traditional mindset.
