https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205616.Linnets_and_Valerians
I’ve long since given up my smug assertion that others my age were deprived by missing reading certain of my favorite childhood books.
It’s that 9-10 or maybe 8-11 year old range that I would have adored this book; it’s a shame I wasn’t as widely read as I used to think.Linnets and Valerians is a wonderful fairy tale with identifiable and likeable characters.
I especially enjoyed Uncle Ambrose, but I’m sure that as a girl I would have identified with Nan and at the beginning might have been a bit wary of Uncle Ambrose and all of the adult characters.The plot was completely predictable but it was a fine story.
It wasn't until half way through that you started seeing the world differently, realizing that the village and several of its inhabitants were under spells and that a battle of good witches and bad witches was in full swing.
The magic I don't like is the kind that is placed in our world and where the lines of reality and mysticism are made hazy.
There are unusual things that have happened in a little village and the children discover a magic spell book and begin to put the pieces together.
The children were thrilled, and when the manservant who had ‘lost’ the pony, the cart and the shopping cane home from the pub singing and dancing in the early hours of the morning, they were sure that this must be just the start of their adventure.They were right.The next morning they learned that the elderly gentleman had known exactly who they were.
I have been in a bit of a slump with reading at the moment, reading books that have left me wanting, and reading books with a tight, tense, uncharitable air.
And when I feel like this, when there are things needling at the edge of my mind, or a closed, grey feeling to my senses, I need a very specific sort of book.
I need Noel Streatfield.
I need her buttery, fat prose, her Jam and Jerusalem books of England and English magic and children who make the world a better place through their simple belief and instinctive actions.
I am content and complete.Linnets and Valerians is about people.
Nan, Robert, Timothy, and Betsy escape the severe sternness of their grandmother's care, and somehow "borrow" a cart and horse that delivers them directly at their Uncle Ambrose's house, an uncle they've never met, an uncle with a pet owl named Hector who hicks out owl pellets at auspicious moments.Fortunately for the four kids, he assumes guardianship of them, including their education.
The kids charm their way into Lady Alicia's reclusive life, explore the rocky hillside and discover a mute hermit, and accidentally buy candy from a witch with a cat who can grow into the size of a lion!
I really was surprised at the witchiness of this sweet story, in a good way.Recommended for kids who like the Edward Eager and E.
I read this book aloud to my daughter. Some parts felt like a bit of a slog but other parts were poetic and lovely. We liked the characters and the way that at the finish of the book, all the loose ends were picked up and tied together beautifully. The plot does beg the question, why didn't Ezra burn the dolls sooner ? Very glad to have read it though.
The sole reason for subtraction of a half-star is mixed feelings about some of the story's magical themes.
Otherwise—well, the writing is simply lovely, the setting of a quaint English village delightful, and the characters absolutely charming and endearing.
Nesbit at writing from children's perspectives in a natural and hilarious way.
Unlike Nesbit, though, the adult characters play a vibrant part—Uncle Ambrose is simply a marvel.
The magic element in the story is small but definite, treating the spells of a village witch as real and effective, and the undoing of them by "good" spells the crux of the plot.

One of my favorite book bloggers, Cornflower of Cornflower Books, read Linnets and Valerians (rechristened "The Runaways") recently, and I vaguely remembered it from days of yore at the Alvin Bolster Ricker Memorial Library and Community House, so I got a copy through interlibrary loan and had at it.
As I read, it came back to me--Goudge's great descriptions, her occasional sharp, witty comments, Uncle Absolom, complete with Hector the owl, Ezra the manservant, and the haunting combination of magic, religious faith, classicism, and adventure that make this book unique.
My favorite author, and one of her best children's books.
It takes place, (I think) in the early 1800's.
The pony knows exactly where to go and takes them, somewhat miraculously, to the home of their father's brother, a retired schoolmaster, now a minister and always an eccentric in the extreme.
Everything turns out perfectly in the end which is how I think children's books should be.
And nothing I have said does it justice for this is truly a wonderful book full of mystery and magic and wisdom and joy.
And bees.
I must not forget the bees...
What a wonderful book.
When I started it I puzzled over why I was reading a children's book, but I was soon enchanted.
I have always loved the English village mysteries.
They are created to fit snugly into a small circle.
They are timeless.
They are familiar, all with the same basic components.
This book follows all these tropes.
Plus it has three kinds of magic.
Maybe more.
There is magic magic with spells and curses.
Then there is a near fairy tale magic of place, weather and nature rampant.
Then there is the magic of the plot.
A very great pleasure to read.
Maybe this rates 4 stars. I've read this at least four times, twice aloud. I know I would have given it 4 stars the first time I read it. The story is a nice balance of family, fantasy, characters (people with strong and somewhat odd personalities), and nature that all of the kids have found something that makes this book special.Why then am I giving it 3 stars (actually 3.5)? Probably because there are so many good books for this age group that it's tough to make the judgment call.
I really only read it on the basis of author love, so I was entirely surprised by how instantly smitten I was with the family. C.S. Lewis levels of charm, but with much subtler aspects of magic and fantasy, which is always a plus. I'll never forget this title, either.
The writing is lovely and there are plenty of descriptions and interesting characters but for some reason I never got that into it.
Magic like this moment, when mist rolls in over Weeping Marsh (which I can’t help but associate with Marshwood Vale, which I recall seeing shrouded in mist when we lived in Dorset, one county over from the Devonshire setting of Linnets and Valerians): When they turned and faced the other way the sunlit moor had vanished in a moving pall of gloom.
He was eight years old.”“Timothy is eight,” said Betsy.She was sorry Lady Alicia had this habit of losing things because she could see it made her unhappy, but she did not know how to say so …“Did you lose your husband too?” asked Betsy.“No, he lost himself.
4.5/5This book was so magical and precious and I was in love with everyone.
Loved this! Wonderful characters, uplifting story.
Goudge's framework for most of her stories is firmly in place: an Anglican vicar in a small town or village who is not as otherworldly as he seems, children who are taken in or otherwise "adopted" and educated at home by the old man, and a wealthy older woman (in this case only in about her 50s, which I suppose was indeed "elderly" in the 19th century) who has effectively "stopped time" and refuses to leave the house.
There's a curious blend of high Anglicanism and paganism in this book as there are in many of Goudge's books, particularly the Eliots of Damrosehay series...and there is indeed the same mixture in many English villages today.
Betsy reminds one strongly of Bella from A City of Bells, but she grows up a bit and stops being such a demanding crybaby when she meets her uncle Ambrose, an ex-schoolmaster used to being obeyed without recourse to punishment.It's a great cosy story, and I realise upon re-reading it as an adult that this is where I got my great love and respect for bees--and nowadays we are learning the hard way just how important they are!
Somehow, however, I didn't remember the main storyline of Lady Alicia and her missing family; I had only retained the magical kids-living-in-fascinating-old-house part, which is unusual for me.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
Also, I didn't feel like Goudge did a good job of making the magic mesh well with the religion that seems foundational to the culture at the time.
In fact, although she glosses over this, Christianity and the magic seem to me to be fundamentally in conflict.My major problem was with the justice of the story: there isn't any.
They just act like everything's all okay now and the good people go along with it.
I think this is a misguided attempt to highlight mercy and forgiveness.
There is no mercy without justice.
While reading I found myself conflicted. At moments I was completely immersed in the story, and other times frustrated. The frustrating parts were the magical parts, which I didn't like initially. Towards the end, the magical aspects had grown on me and my imagination was beginning to flourish. Perhaps my deprivation and under exposure of imaginative storybooks as a child played into this. My only complaint of the end was wanting more justice and repentance from the evil doers. I look forward to discussing with my daughter in a few years, she will love this!
A charming, albeit old-fashioned, book about four children having adventurs and getting into trouble in the English countryside. Maybe the bees are magical, maybe the wicked cat is a witch's familiar, maybe what's lost can be found--or maybe everything just has more glamor for children than adults.
This is my kind of book. Very enjoyable read, I don't have to concentrate when I read it. Can grab it to stop my brain from racing with lots of thoughts. Takes me to a different place and time. Fun book so far..6/4/15Second half of the book wasn't as good as the first for me. Could have been my mood.
Revisiting Elizabeth Goudge lately, and this was my favorite as a kid. Dare I say it? I liked this even better than C.S. Lewis's The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe. No uber-Christian message here, just a very well-told tale in the E. Nesbit tradition.
Be still my heart! I've been walking on clouds while reading this gem. Everything around me is brighter and more beautiful, which usually happens when I read one of EG's novels, but this one is the most loveliest yet-- except for maybe the Little White Horse.
Just my sort of book. I'd give it more stars if I could.
FLIGHTS OF YA FANCY AND OPIATES: While I adored this book, one of those age 9 to 99 classics, another part of me was reflecting that books like this, when revered in 2017, are symptomatic of the erosion of the Social Contract in the west.
Yes I know this is a sweet and literate children's classic.
But why is it that we continue to love stories of benign hierarchy -- benign because the contented lower orders know their place -- so long after the turbulent sixties?
This type of reading has to define escapist fiction, by which I mean escape through fiction.
Linnets and Valerians by Elizabeth Goudge is a fairly simple story about four children who run away to their uncle's home and have some adventures BUT in the vein of books much like The Secret Garden where the magic and wonder of the world from a child's perspective explodes off the page and into your heart to stay forever.
This book centers on good people investing in these children and in turn the children help pull an elderly woman out of sadness and despair and reunite families.
This book is a crescendo of all things good, quiet, and joyful, a perfect read to recharge your heart and mind.
It was well-written, and I really liked some of the characters, especially Uncle Ambrose, but by the end the book just didn't ring true for me.
With a few tweaks here and there, the problems of the characters could have been both brought on, and resolved, without the intervention of magic at all.
Then we would have had a great family story about the four children bonding with their uncle and vice-versa, and also the solving of the mystery of Lady Alicia's missing son and husband.
I think perhaps I'm just not attracted to magic stories of the sort with spellbooks, voodoo dolls, etc.
I generally prefer Goudge’s adult writing to her children’s books, which tend to lean a little bit further toward pat and unbelievable endings than I like.
This book seems like a kids’-level cross between her stellar The White Witch and Gentian Hill, with a touch of E.
Nesbit for good measure.
I wanted to like it better, but little things here and there annoyed me, such as the overly imaginative Robert callously calling the black servant Moses “slave” while playing.
Most of the characters are pleasant, but I recognized them as stock from the Goudge repertory company, and somehow they just didn’t work for me.
