https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67890.The_Archetypes_and_the_Collective_Unconscious
I asked to borrow it and began to read.My immediate impression was that the author was extremely erudite, his text making reference not only to psychology, but to cultural anthropology, comparative religions, philosophy, theology, ancient history, the classics etc.
In other words, some of the archaic belief systems which I had previously dismissed were here being represented as stemming from experiences similar to ones very familiar and, sometimes, disturbing to me.I finished this alluring and mystifying book, then, when next home in Illinois, began the long, expensive process of buying and reading every volume of The Collected Works as well as very many books about Jung, about his "analytical psychology" and about the various, often obscure, topics he addressed.
Jung is a mystic who sounds like a scientist.
I'm just wondering if the twitteresque society of today still births children who can draw complex mandalas at age 11, as one example in this book.Anyway, the practical application of The Archetypes is that it made me start journaling again- you know, using visual art rather than long paragraphs to express a state of mind or something you might be going through.
I haven't yet felt the need to draw a mandala, or maybe I'm just censoring myself, as they're so incredibly detailed and revealing.
But yeah, drawing feels like a massage for the brain.
After spending 4 years studying philosophy and religion, I finally sat down and began reading his work and I'm glad I waited: Jung makes a ton of references to many philosophical, religious/mythological, alchemical and literary figures that if you were not familiar with them before hand, you won't get much from his work.Having said that, I do think he is a impressive psychologist whose ideas on anima/animus, synchronicity and the collective unconscious are illuminating for many subjects- and had an impact on my personal philosophy.
la barbat inconstientul e feminin (anima): de obicei proiectat asupra unei femei, iar la femeie, e masculin (animus), proiectat asupra unui barbat-“Cand cei doi vor fi unul, si ceea ce e afara ca ceea ce e inauntru, si masculinul cu femininul, nici masculin, nici feminin” (intr-o evanghelie gnostica)- arhetipuri ca elemente de neclintit ale inconstientului, dar mereu in forme diferite, pt ca sunt potentiale, nu continuturi- “Delirului de grandoare constient ii corespunde o inferioritate inconstienta, compensatoare, iar inferioritatii constiente un delir de grandoare inconstient.”- “personalitatea supraordonata”: sinele complet- trairea legaturii dintre generatii contribuie la sentimentul eliberarii din timp- animus apare deseori ca pictor, are un aparat de proiectie sau posesor al unei galerii de tablouri- functie mediatoare intre constient si inconstient: inconstientul contine imagini care sunt manifestate de animus ca imagini- in alchimie: sufletul= Mercurius- tantrismul sustine ca: materia nu e decat determinatia gandului divin - suflet vs spirit- pentru omul primitiv, spiritul se afla in exteriorul sau; apoi, coborarea sa in sfera constiintei umane- arhetipul spiritului: batranul- arhetipurile, o parte pozitiva, dar si una negativa.
Whereas Freud and some of his predecessors believed in a personal unconscious that consisted primarily of the repressed thoughts and feelings of the individual, Jung carried the concept further, arguing that the personal unconscious is merely a thin film overlaying a much deeper reservoir of unconscious images; that being the collective unconscious.
The archetypes of the collective unconscious are inlaid in the psyche of every human being, and the psychological development of every human individual is consequently shaped by their influence.Needless to say, the implications of this idea, when adequately borne out, are enormous.
All of our individual thoughts, feelings, insights, and enterprises are to be measured against the unconscious voice of all humanity.
I read it off and on as I had the attention to give it, and since my reading time is usually at the end of the day, I didn't always have the brain power remaining to give it its proper due, so I read easier things instead.
As usual I penciled some things, and I plan to go back through what I penciled and perhaps add to this review later.
So many of the ideas presented require extensive explanation, they don't lend well to pithy little quotes or statements.If what I've said above makes you think, "Oh, I don't want to read that.
What can one say about Carl Jung? We are only beginning to really understand the complexity of the man and his theories. He is certainly making more sense to me as the years progress. This book delves into the Archetypes, and collective conscious science is now proving exists. This book defines the Shadow, which lurks among Jungs self and work.
I'm not going into great detail about the book itself because if you want detail, Carl's your man.
I'm someone who tends to think in images and symbols maybe a little more than most and our culture especially manipulates images and symbols to achieve desired results (namely selling you crap you don't really want or need.) Jung uses folk tales from different cultures that could not have really had the level of communication one would need to have such similar archetypes implanted consciously into these stories to make his case for a collective unconscious, and I think he does an excellent job.
IntroductionI became curious about Carl Jung after reading Scott Peck’s references to him in A Road Less Traveled .This particular work of Jung’s may be organized into six essential categories, which address: (1) the conscious mind, (2) the personal unconscious, (3) the collective unconscious, (4) archetypes and (5) the process of individualization.
This is no less than the struggle to transcendence from the animal state, from the state of being God’s pet animal to the state of being a volitional proponent for God. Things that subvert or weaken the consciousness, such as substance abuse, meditation to blank out the mind, hypnosis, etc., tend to make way for the emergence of resistant demonic entities that Jung labels “archetypes”.
Apsišvietęs protas manosi ištaisąs klaidą, kai pamato, kad tai, ką jis laikė dvasiomis, iš tikrųjų yra žmogaus ir galiausiai jo paties dvasia.
Visus antžmogiškus, ir gerus, ir blogus, dalykus, kuriuos ankstesnieji laikai siejo su daimonia, jis susiaurina iki „protingo“ masto, tarsi jie būtų buvę perdėti, ir atrodo, kad viskas puiku.
Geriau jau karas, dėl jo visada kaltas kitas; ir niekas nemato, kad visas pasaulis tarsi apsėstas skuba daryti kaip tik tai, ko visi vengia ir bijo.
Nors dvasios archetipo poveikis gali būti ir geras, ir blogas, bet nuo žmogaus laisvo, tai yra sąmoningo, sprendimo priklauso, ar net ir gėris neišvirs į šėtoniškumą.
I did skip over a few of his super-detailed analyses of individual myths though, which sometimes seemed a little far-fetched and more like literary analysis run wild than anything resembling science.There are clear explanations of a number of powerful concepts here including the unconscious, the anima and the animus.
These ideas will quite possibly enrich your readings of myth, fiction and even dreams, even if you don't agree with Jung's ideas in a literal sense or you think he strays too far into mysticism at times.
I can get behind the idea that maybe we all have an innate concept of male or female, mother or father, but 'wise old man who shows us the way'?
You find descriptions of the three main, inescapable archetypes underlying Jung's entire philosophy, i.e. the Mother, the Child and the Prankster, as seen in their mostly theoretical aspects.
The Child is, of course, the artist: a figure that goes back to the beginning of time and, at the same time, looks ahead at the future of humankind by conjuring up unheard-of solutions in times of crisis.
It goes without saying that artists, writers, painters, web designers etc should treasure this volume as it encompasses nearly all the questions troubling you as a creative force: what is art for?
L'inconscio collettivo denominazione data da Jung a quello "strato" dell'inconscio i cui contenuti sono ereditati, universali, che sono appannaggio di tutti gli uomini in ogni epoca.I contenuti dell'inconscio collettivo sono denominati archetipi (la cui etimologia viene riccamente fornita da Jung) mentre i contenuti dell'inconscio personale sono i cosiddetti "complessi a tonalità affettiva".In questo minuscolo libriccino vengono trattati con la solita erudita amplificazione storica, filosofica, alchemica, ma anche con molti esempi pratici, tre archetipi: l'Ombra, l'Anima e l'archetipo del Significato simboleggiato dal Vecchio Saggio.
An extension of and expansion upon Freudian theories. The implications of Jung's theory of the collective unconscious reach out and nearly touch the metaphysical. Jung strives to integrate western religious thinking, with the philosophies of the east. A great prequel to the works of Campbell, Grof, Wilber, or Ram Dass
I found this book stunning! It made me look back in our blind immemorial times and understand the power of the Unconscious, that we, modern civilised people, completly ignore it and so become incomplete and poor.
Hands down the best thing I've read of his so far - The theory of Archetypes is...man, I can only say that it, coupled with the Mystical World view, is the religion of the future - its beautiful and absolutely true.
Jung was the great intellectual pioneer who recognized that our heritage of symbol -- whether in myth or dream -- revealed the universal characteristics of the developing psyche.
(Conversely, Jung suggests suppression of an archetypal image empowers it, to the point where it can overwhelm the ego, splitting consciousness, and creating a psychosis)."Active imagination" is Jung's process for the individual to discover the dynamic image and the methods necessary for assimilating the meaning and the relationship between conscious and unconscious.
In the sense of Jung's personality typology, and in configurations of the mandala, the fourth and unified "one" is a unification of the four functions (sensing, intuition, thinking, feeling), and thus a situation perceived from four points of view, with no point unconscious.The nature of the archetypes would suggest that a manifestation of the axiom takes as many forms as is conceivable (e.g. a three legged flying horse on a rescue mission etc), and is contingent upon each person's psyche; with the endgame being the affect on conscious experience.
Книгата представлява сборник със студии, в които Юнг дава едни от основополагащите демостранции на мисловната си техника.
За херменевтична база на онтологичното си тълкуване, Юнг използва функционален възглед, които търси отговорите на върпосите "Какво представлява символът", "Каква е неговата вътрешна амбивалентност", "Какво цели появата на тази полярност в конкретните условия", "В какви връзки най-често се появява", "Какво значение може да има за човека".
Ключовите позции на тълкуването на архетиповата символика, които могат да се открият в текста са:- От феноменология към онтология на архетипа (от какво?
към защо?)- Единство на противоположностите- Естествена психична регулация - Поддържане на връзката на Аз-а със Себето (Selbst, Self, Самость, "Цялостна личност").
Extraordinary, though, Jung is repeating himself on more than one occasion.
Jung presupposes personal knowledge of divine symbols and ideas because of a collective unconscious.
Kant's  a priori  knowledge has absolutely nothing to do with a sort of meta-human, theological cultural transference.I'm glad that my copy of this book was about 50% an index.
He believes that archetypes are kind of ur-personality types that exist in a platonic realm and that people inherit these things.Let me make this clear.
Jung actually believes magical personality types exist in another realm and people inherit these personality types at various points in their lives.
I can't say the same about Jung...As for the other claim, the one about him talking like a scientist...
This is par for the course with Jung.
He has some really neat ideas, which he describes with lots of obscure references to European history, culture and mythology.
This book, probably more than any other, captures some of his more novel and interesting ideas, namely the Archetypes and the Collective Unconscious, hence the name.
Beyond that, it's a grab bad of sharp insights, neat ideas, and obscure references.
If you really like Jung, it's worth a read.
Otherwise, I would recommend starting with Anthony Storr's Jung Reader.
This is a collection of essays by Jung about his work with archetypes and individuation. I highly recommend it if you want to understand the psychological concepts and the context in which those concepts are framed. There's some interesting perspectives that Jung shares on these terms that can help readers understand what they mean and how they apply to states of awareness the person experiences. I also found the case studies and art useful for further demonstrating what the author was sharing in terms of what his patients experienced. If you want to understand archetypes and individuation read this work.
As far as I read, I seem to be transmuting the contents of the book into small person "aha!" moments, which I treasure more than the book. In other words, I love the book, but what counts is reading it. You will have to experience Jung for yourself, but it is very personally liberating if you wish for an accounting of the reason for such things as the difference between minds, why people think differently, how the psyche may be functioning without you knowing it, and how time really is acausal and synchronous completely really!
Totally over my head, while I managed to grasp some of the concepts overall I couldn't understand a word.
Guess I'm just not cut out to grasp heavy (for me) books like this.
Looking forward to getting Len Deightons Horse Under Water in the post.....might scrape through that one.
Of course I am aware jung's book is supposed to be top notch which is why I read it but it wasn't for me......which is not to say other folk will not like it so don't let my review put you off reading it as it really is supposed to be brilliant.
другий український переклад юнґа. прикро, що більшість статей в обидвох виданнях збігаються - марна праці перекладачів. зате тепер ясно, що напсравді мало хто з дослідників знає, що таке архетип - юнґа, вочевидь, ніхто не читає. а читати його варто - може й не це компілятивне видання, де найцікавіше - це про про мандали, а його Еон чи Сновидіння, чи хоча б Психологічні типи, а краще - Психологія та алхімія
This was fairly disappointing. With all the hype about Jung I would have thought it be better but his initial argument is deeply flawed and it just gets worse from their. He's also s but sexist, not horribly so (no worse than others at his time), but the assumptions he makes don't make logical sense anymore.If you don't mind the flaws and can get through heaps of really bad anthropology then this is for you.
The book is a collection of articles about the Archetypes, which are inside the collective unconsciousness. I enjoyed reading most of the chapters, except for the last third, which was at times too strenuous. The matter is well explained, though it is not for people completely new with the matter. If you are more generally interested, I would advice to buy an introduction work rather. Lots of detail about the archetypes though!
As a former psych major, I had to read many, many works. Jung was mostly skipped other than a passing mention that he didn't agree with Freud. This material, in a semi science based way, is an excellent bridge to understanding the linkages between science and the metaphysical--which is why Jung was probably given such short shrift in my undergrad classes.
Am acordat 4 stele din cinci din simplul motiv că este o carte foarte stufoasă pe care am citit-o extrem de încet. Probabil că după a doua lectură, după ce îmi vor fi mai clare ideile cuprinse în ea, nu voi avea nicio reținere în a-i acorda nota maximă. Am scris mai multe despre carte aici: http://kerstyne.com/2015/10/27/arheti...
