https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110457.Nadja
While Nadja will likely feel threadbare to a modern reader, it was a major work of early surrealist literature that gleefully captures the movement and passionately chronicles the night walk love affair between Breton and his muse.Breton wrote that Surrealism is a ‘pure state,’ by which one can channel through art ‘the actual functioning of thought...the superior reality.’ Nadja comes from Breton’s life experiences—though the validity of its heroine was once a topic of heated debate—and attempts to put forth his methodology.
683. Nadja, André BretonNadja (1928), the second book published by André Breton, is one of the iconic works of the French surrealist movement. It begins with the question "Who am I?"It is based on Breton's actual interactions with a young woman, Nadja, over the course of ten days, and is presumed to be a semi-autobiographical description of his relationship with a mad patient of Pierre Janet. The book's non-linear structure is grounded in reality by references to other Paris surrealists such as
The last sentence of the book ("Beauty will be CONVULSIVE or will not be at all") provided the title for Pierre Boulez's flute concerto ...explosante-fixe....نادیا - آندره برتون (افق) ادبیات سبک سوررئالیسم؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هفتم ماه فوریه سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: نادیا؛ نویسنده: آنده برتون؛ مترجم: کتوه میرعباسی؛ تهران، افق، 1383؛ در 165 ص؛ شابک: 9643691497؛چاپ سوم 1387؛ چاپ چنجم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 معنوان: نادیا؛ نویسنده: آنده برتون؛ مترجم: کاوه میرعباسی؛ تهران، افق، 1383؛ در 165 ص؛ شابک: 9643691497؛چاپ سوم 1387؛ چاپ پنجم 1392؛ عنوان: نادیا؛ نویسنده: آنده برتون؛ مترجم: عباس پژمان؛ تهران، هرمس، 1390؛ در 270 ص؛ شابک: 9789643637255؛ چاپ دوم 1393؛اثر مرشد و مراد سوررئآلیست‌ها: «آندره برتون» است، و نخستین بار در سال 1928 میلادی چاپ شده، و نسخه تصحیح شده از آن در سال 1963 میلادی منتشر شده است.
“I shall discuss these things without pre-established order, and according to the mood of the moment…….” Andre Breton doesn’t give a fuck; he doesn’t care about you; he doesn’t care about me: he doesn't care about his reader. He only cares about his Nadja. This book was written for her.But what is Nadja? The physical Nadja in the novel is a woman dealing intense emotional and psychological problems; she captures the gaze of the narrator and his heart. She becomes his muse, his artistic inspirat
The physical Nadja in the novel is a woman dealing intense emotional and psychological problems; she captures the gaze of the narrator and his heart.
Breton wrote the manifesto for the surrealist art movement, and some of these ideas are deeply thematic in here.
The idea of the character Nadja, this ideal, is elusive; yet, for a moment the narrator seems to capture her love.
Breton replicates some of these ideas here, but I just don’t think he does it very well.
There’s an odd bit about cocaine and several autobiographical bits at the start before the novel even gets going.
That was the year when I met my first real love.One early morning, I was doing complete blood count near the window of the laboratory.
Dreamlike.Nadja (1927) written by the pricipal founder of Surrealism, Andre Breton (1896-1966) was like that.
With that example, think Breton writing this semi-autobiographical novel about a girl he met in France, fell in love with and stayed with her for 10 days.
That, in essence was what Breton did here in Nadja.My first love did not become my wife but our relationship lasted for 2 years.
Interesting, and the prose is sometimes lyrical, but I admit it was not as revolutionary as I had expected. But what I really want is a book written by Nadja, and what she thinks about André's pining.
A lot of writers nowadays would describe their books as 'surreal' when they really mean full of pretentious randomness, but this is the real deal - complete with drawings reproductions and Max Ernst cameos. But beside the surrealism and the exciting format, it's really just Manic Pixie Dream Girl in early 20th century Paris.
من از خوندن كتاب ناديا لذت نبردم (به جز چند خطش مثلا) ولى متوجهم كه اثر مهميه و راه رو مثلا براى آثار ديگه باز كرده.
يك جاى ديگه مى گه من مى خوام اثرم ضد ادبى باشه و مثلا با اين تاكيدش مى خواد اون حقيقتى كه با وجود اين ضد ادبيات بودن خودشو بروز مى ده رو پررنگتر كنه.
بعد راههايى كه براى ضد ابيات كردن استفاده مى كنه يكى خوددارى از توصيف كردنه، و به جاش عكس مى ذاره، و دوم استفاده از زبان و ادبيات غير ادبى و مشابه به گزارش هاى پزشكيه.
Enjoying the feeling of something overwhelmingly non-existent.
Nadja makes you wonder whether she exists or not.
The first half of Hope.
Illusion.Nadja.
The second half of Hope.
Innocent madness.
Mad innocence.The one you love for the sake of loving.
To remind yourself you still want to love.
Desperately hoping for something you don't want to happen.
Nadja, smiling and saying she'll be fine for a couple more minutes.
Nadja takes root in your heart.
Nadja.
Nadja.
She's everywhere you want her to be.
For you, 'my' Nadja.Je t'aime.
Finally got around to reading this cornerstone of surrealist lit, somewhat underwhelmed.
Nadja's meaning for Breton is a little obscure but it seems to be embodied in sentiments like this:Perhaps life needs to be deciphered like a cryptogram.
The actual trajectory of Breton's relationship with Nadja, however, is somewhat less exciting.
Honestly, I'd rather hear Nadja's own account of Breton, and more importantly, of her inner life, rather than Breton's impressions of it.Incidentally, Leona Camille Ghislain D.
(yes, she was real, though this was apparently hotly debated at some point) does get an entry in Surrealist Women, but only to quote this book.

At one point Breton discloses that he has spent a whole afternoon talking to his wife about Nadja and further on, just before Nadja is committed to an insane asylum, she phones Breton’s wife and tells her that she is her only friend in the world.
Civilized, eh?Now, a great portion of Breton’s and Nadja’s encounters are spent talking, painting and walking about (with illustrations to back it all up).
Breton states ‘ As for her, I know in every sense of the word, she takes me for a god, She thinks of me as the Sun.’ Nadja also happens to read his Manifesto and other writings in awe.
For those with a taste for, or an interest in, coincidences (as I am), this book can be highly intoxicating and actually mind altering, meaning it can have a direct effect on how and what you see as you go about your days and nights walking around (preferably through a city with “atmosphere”).
This intoxication is a result of most of the book occurring within Breton’s mind, with Nadja and Paris (& a few surrealists) making occasional cameo appearances, so reading this book is akin to walking around within the highly charged and receptive ionic cloud that Breton intentionally made of his mind.I demote it one star for Breton’s sometimes annoying oracular tone.
Andre Breton incorporates some of my favorite things into a love story: fortune tellers, random footnotes, prison abolition, psychologically questionable doodles, and interesting nicknames.
لولا أني لم أعهدني في حياتي كلها أن كنت منفتحة و مستعدة و مشرئبة هكذا...0و هكذا كثير من الاقتباسات التي كانت تستوقفني فأقلّبها فلا أجد شيئا فيها...0هل كان إذن شبح نادجا هو من همس لي في الليل لأتحدث عنها، بعد أن كنت قرأت قبل ليلة مدونة من اللواتي ينتشرن هذه الأيام تبجل الروح المتفردة لفتاة ما، أن يا سلمى تحدثني عني أنا الجدة الأولى لهذه الطريقة في الكتابة، فكتاب بريتون أشبه بمدونة: 0(اعتبرتُ نادجا روحا حرة، مثيلة إحدى جنيات الفضاء اللاتي تمكن بعض الممارسات السحرية من استلحاقهن وقتيا لكن يستحيل استخضاعهم)(كنت عجزت من زمن عن التفاهم مع نادجا.
How early does this fall on Surrealisms?
My second reading of this, the first half my life ago, leaves me with three takeaways:< My favorite graphic novel (it has associative pictures that correspond to the text, hence 'graphic' novel not comic book BAMZINGZOW!)< Even better 20-years later, as I came to it with a far greater contextual understanding of...pretty much everything.< Still never printed in hardcover in the Queen's tongue.
Certainly one of humanity's greatest crimes, right behind consigning the first three Grand Funk Railroad records to obscurity in favor of "We're An American Band" and "Some Kind of Wonderful." That's not MY Mark, Mel, and Don!*(*May this ever be the only written text to ever draw comparisons between Breton and Grand Funk, in this Your name I pray...)
Lisbon Book-Fair 2018.
For instance:"Over and above the various prejudices I acknowledge, the affinities I feel, the attractions I succumb to, the events which occur to me and to me alone--over and above a sum of movements I am conscious of making, of emotions I alone experience--I strive, in relation to other men, to discover the nature, if not the necessity, of my difference from them." (12-13)I felt like I was hacking through the lines with a machete, to no avail.
Or like I was being given a grammar puzzle to diagram.
In the book Breton is married; he starts seeing Nadja, and it never occurs to him -- as a narrator, for for sake of writing, or fiction -- to say anything about how he feels about his wife, or vice versa.
At one point he writes:"I go out at three with my wife and a friend; in the taxi we continue discussing Nadja, as we have been doing during lunch." (p.
When Nadja is committed to an asylum, Breton writes several pages exonerating himself for any responsibility (p.
چندتا چیز!یکی این که واقعا بعضی جاها خل میشدم انقدر که باورنکردنی بود برام که بعضی از این اتفاقا واقعا اتفاق افتادن! تو همین دنیای خودمون!!خیلی عالی بود.بعد هم این که کتاب بعضی جاها مثل کتابهای معمایی میشد برام! همهی چیزا همدیگه رو تکمیل میکردن و درنهایت هم عباس پژمان میگفت: در پایان فصل دوم مشخص خواهد شد!بعد هم این که جوری که راجع به «زیبایی» حرف زده بود آخر کتاب،واقعا محشر بود! محشر!خیلی خوب بود این کتاب.. و اصلا چاپ افقش رو نخونید! من اون رو داشتم و رفتم مال هرمس رو خریدم! بدون توضیحات مترجم،
چندتا چیز!یکی این که واقعا بعضی جاها خل میشدم انقدر که باورنکردنی بود برام که بعضی از این اتفاقا واقعا اتفاق افتادن!
تو همین دنیای خودمون!!خیلی عالی بود.بعد هم این که کتاب بعضی جاها مثل کتاب‌های معمایی میشد برام!
همه‌ی چیزا هم‌دیگه رو تکمیل می‌کردن و درنهایت هم عباس پژمان میگفت: در پایان فصل دوم مشخص خواهد شد!بعد هم این که جوری که راجع به «زیبایی» حرف زده بود آخر کتاب،‌واقعا محشر بود!
محشر!خیلی خوب بود این کتاب..
The progression of Nadja's insanity is both frightening and beautiful in how Breton describes it.
Included are photographs of their environment and, even more interestingly, a small collection of Nadja's artwork, mirroring Breton's description of the progression of her insanity.Having read this so close to Roche's Jules et Jim, I compare the two in the sense of both being semi-autobiographical stories set in Paris in the 20s involving a beautiful, crazy woman.
What Breton does in Nadja that Roche failed in Jules et Jim is he made Nadja a sympathetic character whereas I maintain that Kate in Roche's book is incredibly unsympathetic.Nadja is, quite simply, beautiful.
This book did nothing for me. As interesting or engaging writing, this book falls short and then some. It doesn't function as a novel and I'm not sure it was supposed to. Breton gives a long rambling preamble, scattered impressions of "Nadja" for act 2, then an afterword that tries to be an apology, but sometimes apologies are not enough.If you're interested in the surrealist movement, then I'm sure you'll find some value in this book as a relic of the movement's history. Other than that, pass!!
Andre Breton's "Nadja" is one of my all time favorite books. I think the main reason is that the city of Paris becomes a character in the novel. Or is it even a novel? It reads like a travel diary under the influence of Opium. I like how Breton eroticises Paris, and the images that are through out the book are priceless.
Breton'u daha çok manifesto içerikli metinleri ve bir şiiriyle tanımış, çoşkusuna hayran kalmıştım.
Nadja da karma bir metin gibi, ilk yarıya anı çağrışımlı düşünceler eşlik ediyor ve bu kısmı okuduğum en yoğun metinlerden birisi sayılabilir.
Bütün dikkatini vermedikçe cümlelerin neye göre bir araya geldiğini anlamak imkansız gibi.
Ve Nadja hikayeye dahil olduktan sonraki ikinci yarıda düşünceler sadece Nadja'ya odaklanıp, daha kolay takip edilebilir hale geliyor.
Birini sevmek-kaybetmek ve ona dair imaja takılı kalmak üzerine çok güzel bir metin.
İlk yarıyı atlatıp ikinci yarıya gelmesini tavsiye ederim okuyacak olanlara.
Çünkü:Güzellik ya İHTİLAÇLI bir güzellik olacak, ya da hiç olmayacak!
چند لحظه دیگر هم معطلم کرد تا توضیح بدهد چه چیزی در من بود که بر او تأثیر میگذاشت.ظاهرأ در افکارم،در گفتارم،در کل رفتارم،نشانی از آن میدید_و این یکی از آن احساس برانگیزترین تعارف هایی بود که در تمام عمرم شنیدهام_ سادگیام.
چند لحظه دیگر هم معطلم کرد تا توضیح بدهد چه چیزی در من بود که بر او تأثیر می‌گذاشت.ظاهرأ در افکارم،در گفتارم،در کل رفتارم،نشانی از آن می‌دید_و این یکی از آن احساس برانگیزترین تعارف هایی بود که در تمام عمرم شنیده‌ام_ سادگی‌ام.
I admire certain innovations in the book: that it was firstly a pronouncement of the Surrealist ideals, and as such mae no claim to having structure or answers or justifications; it also featured photos of places and people that Breton referred to in the text, as were hand-drawn sketches from Nadja herself.However, here is a sample sentence: "The sudden intervals between words in even a printed sentence, the line which as we speak, we draw beneath a certain number of propositions whose total is out of the question, the complete elision of events which, from one day to the next or to another, quite upsets the data of a problem we thought we could solve, the vague emotional coefficient applied to and removed from the remotest ideas we dream of producing, as well as our most concrete recollections, as time goes by - all these function so that I no longr have the heart to consider anything but the interval separating these last lines from those which, leafing through this book, would seem to have come to an end a few pages back." Yes a few pages back with the beginning of your sentence, Andre.
Yes, there is the question of "who is Nadja", but the greater question: 'who is you' at the end of the book?
Couple that with the last paragraph ,which ends with the wonderful sentence that started this entry, and there is a bit of a curious puzzle.
You see, the news report was of a plane crash, "X December 26" It goes, but this what made me wonder if it was a real report: "The message said, in particular: "There is something which is not working".
He does, it is true, inveigh against the institutionalization of those who, like Nadja, have an alternative but nonviolent perception of reality, but he made no effort to rescue the real Nadja ( Léona Camile Ghislaine Delacourt ) from her confinement in a mental institution that lasted fourteen years until her death.Nadja's drawings, reproduced in the novel among the photographs used by Breton to enhance and ground his surrealistic romp, are extraordinary.
and i felt kinda the same way about this book, though i'd never read it before.
i feel like if i'd read it back in my teens or early 20s, preferably in college, when i was drowning in cocteau and bunuel, i probably would've absolutely loved it...
but from where i am now, the character of nadja just seems sad and disturbed and in need of a doctor, and the narrator just seems like a flippant, self-deluding prick.
Inevitably, afterwards, they must know much more about such a woman than we do.that should give you a pretty good idea.(by the way, i found this today: http://www.howtobearetronaut.com/2011...
Nadja is a (daresay feminist) psycho-surrealist account of Breton's meeting with the titled character, Nadja.
The meeting encompasses only 20 or so pages of the novella, but it influences everything in the book, even before he meets her.
Full of beautiful and complex ideas and imagery with black and white photographs accompanying to secure this dream into some sense of the reader's reality.
Is Nadja just another blip in Breton's reality or is she a concoction of his own doing?
As a reader you'll ask why often, and demand a sense of understanding, but the answers are never given--only a web of ideas, both maniacal and thoughtful, is provided.
The beauty will be CONVULSIVE or will not be.This sentence closes the first surrealist novel.
At the high school, I read the classics, fines analyzes psychological, meticulous description, rigorous plan.
No description, a photograph replaces it.
Nadja lived at "Hotel des grands hommes", so photographs of this hôtel.
At this time, the artistic value of photography was discussed.
At least Breton egoistically exonerate any responsibility in state of Nadja.
The talent of Breton makes of him a true et good book.
But I think to Nadja, fragile woman consumed by the genius of Breton but which, paradoxically, acquired of him the eternity.
