https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8062.The_Poppy_Seed_Cakes
What is one to do when a goat, a dog, a kitten, and two chickens invite themselves to afternoon tea? Why, one allows them to sit at the table and eat poppy seed cakes and strawberry jam!Written in 1924, this little recollection of life in the old country (which appears to be Russia) is a very simple collection of eight stories, each connecting to the previous story. There is Auntie Katushka, who has come from the old country so she can visit her little nephew, Andrewshek, who doesn't always list
Why, one allows them to sit at the table and eat poppy seed cakes and strawberry jam!Written in 1924, this little recollection of life in the old country (which appears to be Russia) is a very simple collection of eight stories, each connecting to the previous story.
While I enjoyed this, it's best for nursery age children, who will delight in repeating the names over and over.I must admit that I completed this quickly but then looked at it again, just for the simple fun to be had with the old country.Book Season = Spring (red boots)
My mother would read it periodically, and thanks to this book I have an unnatural affection for feather beds and poppy seed cakes.This is a nice chapter book, beginning with Auntie Katushka and little Andrewshek who, typical for his age, ignores all of Auntie Katushka's warnings.
The neighbors have a little girl, Erminka, who is the focus of another couple of chapters - her story is more about the red boots she wears than about the feather bed of Andrewshek's world.
But in the end the two come together to have a tea party with the poppy seed cakes that Auntie Katushka prepares.It's a touching story with bright illustrations by Maud and Miska Petersham.
Somehow, I thought of this book today, one I read when Eisenhower was in the White House, though it was written in 1924! It is the most charming tale of a mischievous little boy, Andrewshek, his sister and his auntie Katushka. The illustrations are bright and delightful. Anyone with young children should find a copy. Mine was given to me by my paternal grandparents in 1959 and It is still by my side today.
One of my favorite books as a little girl. Brett found me a copy and gave to me for Christmas this year!!
Short 'chapters' make for easy aloud reading to young children. Fun antics and talking animals. Plus, I had a blast saying 'Auntie Katushka' and 'Andrewshek' over and over again!!
This is a simple, yet delightful book for 3-4 year olds. It has charming little stories about Andrewshek and Erminka and various scrapes (often with animals). The illustrations are charming.
Delightful -- charming characters, talking animals, tea parties. Best of all, the illustrations are just perfect for the story, in bright, saturated colors, including yellow stencil-like illustrations on each page (woodcuts?) framing the text, along with 16 full-color, full-page illustrations and another 16 black and white full-page illustrations. All the pictures have bold and simple lines and all evoke old Russia (at least, that's my guess). If I were an artist, I'd like to draw pictures like these!! My plan was to sell this, but I think I'll have to keep it now.
---Excerpts and/or reprints included in Stories And Fables.
I remember my mom reading this to me when I was little. My 3 year old got it for Christmas and we just finished reading it together. She loved it and wanted to start reading it again as soon as we finished.
The Poppy Seed Cakes
I loved this book as a kid it was taken out of the library at least once every year
B1 C1 R8
