https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/886512.Jamberry
Jamberry makes me hungry, as it should.
It contains literally thousands of berries, jams, jellies, pies, tarts, you name it.
And a pleasant anthropomorphic bear.
There's a cute and, more importantly, un-forced rhyme scheme that lightly dips into the "made up words" Dr. Seuss territory.
The artwork is solid.
Clean, bright and imaginative.
I think Bruce Degen does a good job of subtly encouraging kids to get outside and do something simple yet rewarding in nature, like berry picking, which stimualtes the imagination and makes for happier kids.
Something kids these days (jesus, did I really just say that?) need to remember.
Holds a special place in my heart--I was reading this book out loud to my 3 year-old niece after her brain surgery and it made her laugh. It was the first response we'd had and it marked the beginning of a turn for the better. I think this book is miraculous.
The rhyme in this book just works so good. I like it almost as much as my son does. It's amazing how quickly "One berry, Two berry, Pick me a blueberry" gets stuck in your head.
This has been one of our children's favorites.It has wonderful, whimsical illustrations. The words are full of alliteration and made up words. This was a great book with which to challenge my early reading boys with.A sweet, wonderful book that still makes me smile despite all the times we had to read it.
I read this book years ago when my daughter was younger and reread it regularly now. It is a purely joyful rhyming book that zips off the tongue in a delightful way. The colors burst off the page and there is so much energy here, it makes me want to dance. The berries look luscious and there are so many surprises in the gorgeous art. Read this no matter what age you are and please share it with all of the children in your world just for the joy and pleasure of it.
One of my favorites! RIvetting especially the part where the canoe goes over the damn.
One of my favorite picture books from when I was a kid.
As a little girl I read this book too many times to even attempt counting.
When I first got it I couldn't actually read it but I had memorized it page by page so I pretended to read it.
It is an easy read for beginners and it is absolutely adorable.
It really pulls you in with its illustrations, I mean what little kid wouldnt want to be able to run around barefoot eating all sorts of berries and hanging out with a big bear like the boy in the story?
This book will be read to my children are learning to read, I am sure of it!
This rhyming story is filled with cute, comical pictures of animals and people eating various types of berries. This book is great for teaching colors, animals, and fruits. There are also elements of transportation and music in this story.
Great book! tongue-twisting at times but a fun experience all together!
Jamberry is a book literally about making jam! It introduces a variety of fruit that can make jam. This book would be excellent to accompany a food activity. It is also easy to read and introduces rhymes and rhyming words.
This will forever be one of my favorite books. I remember reading it with my own mom as a small child, and it was one of the first board books I bought for my own daughter. We still read it several times a week (sometimes several times in a day!) and I never get tired of it.
I revisited this book recently for the first time in over 5 years and liked it much more than I ever have before. Bo Peep became completely obsessed with the pictures as well as the rhythm of the text, and when the book is available, she asks for several readings right in a row. Miss Muffet also liked it, and she was making connections between it and other berry books we know, such as Blueberries for Sal. This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.Read at Baby/Toddler story time on 1/25/11: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at preschool story time on 3/22/17: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
This book was amazing!! I really like it and I actually read it to the children at my workplace. It tells about the many different types of berries, how to count as well, and the difference of body parts from animal to humans. This book used age-appropriate language for children who are starting out to read on their own. I believe that the young children will enjoy this book especially if they like berries.

Its a great book with interesting rhyming and very colorful and imaginative illustrations.I could use this book to help them with rhyming words and math concept ( 1-4).Learning Experience: I would bring in many different kinds of fresh berries when they are in season.( concrete example) I would invite children to make a simple pattern such as blueberry, strawberry, blueberry.As an extension I would make the pattern a little difficult for example, blueberry, blueberry, raspberry, and so on.
This was another one of those books where I didn't really see the allure, but my children absolutely loved it! All of them! My 5 yr old as well as the twin 3 yr olds! Pictures were interesting and fun, colorful, and there was no real story, but funny words made from jam like words, that had them all repeating the funny sounds. As I read it, they all insisted they get their own turn to examine each page. So, it was a winner for us!
Wordplay at its finest resulted in a joyful read of an unbelievable adventure. Would recommend to teachers in pre-k classes everywhere.Extension: teachers can bring in different flavors of jelly and jam for children to taste test on biscuits.SD1 Children will use processes of science to actively explore and increase understanding of the environment.
although i found the sometimes nonsensical rhyming a little off putting, my 2 yr old loves this book. the first time she saw the illustrations her mouth was literally hanging open. the pictures aren't what i normally thought would appeal to her, but the detailed pages with cute character faces making exaggerated expressions really do appeal to her. "boy so happy" she likes to tell me.
Summary: A little boy walking in the forest meets a big lovalbe bear that takes him on a delicious berry-picking adventure in the magical world of Berryland.A delicious classic (published in 1983)! Fun. Beautiful. Lyrical. Rhyming. I could read this one over and over. Maybe I'll even memorize it! Shouldn't be too hard at only 111 words.
A bear looks for berries to make jam. He's so hilarious because every word ends with berry(ex:shoeberry). The bear uses blueberries, strawberries, blackberries, and raspberries and then a fountain and mountain of berries.Learning Extension: The children could participate in a taste test, to test the different berries and discuss the colors and taste the berries.
I love “Jamberry”. The book follows a little boy and lovable bear as they search for berries. It is full of vibrant colors and joyful rhyme that can capture the attention of any age.You could extend this book by having your own berry tasting picnic. Make sure you have several different berries for the children to sample. Ask them what they taste like and which one they like the best.
I love this book. As a preschool teacher I love to read it out loud. It is one of those rare children's books that I don't mind reading and over again because I enjoy it as much as the children do. It reminds me of The Beatles, "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds."
My son enjoys this one...but I think I enjoy it more. The pictures are a bit too intricate (and not very bright) to really catch his attention, but I love the silly rhyming language and watching his face while I read it out loud to him. I think he'll like it even more as he gets older.
This book is a perfect read aloud with young children.Its clever illustrations are full of fun,irony and opportunities for conversations.The book also encompasses a wonderful rhythmic pace,joyful rhymes and is excellent for supporting phonological awareness.
A silly, fun little kids book with a great cadence and a nice mix of whimsical word combinations and plain ol' made-up words. Lots of fun to read with your little one. Plus the oblique tip o' the hat to Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland was a nice touch.
This is one of my favorite books. I've read it to Lincoln so many time I think both of us can recite it without even looking at the pictures. Cute story, very clever writing. We love to pretend like we pick the berries off of each page and eat them.
Love it. Every time I read it I want to run across the street and go berry picking, just sometimes the berries aren't in season. Anyhow, it makes berry picking seem like more fun than Dance Dance Revolution somehow.
One of my favorite books EVER. The book is all about berries, one of my favorite foods: blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries. A bear and his pal pick all kinds of berries, through all sorts of fun and wild scenes. The text rhymes and is really fun to listen to.
5* art5* poemJust fun. Fun to read, to hear, to see. Rollicking.
