https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958681.The_Rebel_Bride
That's when he finds out that not only was the duel a fake but that the "lad" is a lady.Julien has come to his country estate to rest and enjoy the time with some friends of his.
Kate, with some dark repressed memories, knows that she fears men and never plans to marry anyone.
She tells Julien this but he knows what's best for both of them and he will have her no matter what.*************SPOILERS*******************************************************************************Now I'm not one of those who hate when the author has the H rape the h in the story.
DNF at 66%.Like Devil's Embrace by the same author, we have in Rebel Bride an obsessed, mine, mine, mine, ruthless and unapologetic "hero" who will go to any means to force seduction and marriage on a girl who wants nothing to do with him.
THAT is true romance, bodice-ripper style.In this book, Rebel Bride, H becomes infatuated with h because he is bored with his overly ostentatious life, including a myriad of mistresses, debauchery, alcohol binges, card games, hunts, etc.He realizes he wants to marry h within a week of meeting her, because the image of the pure, virginal, innocent yet feisty and spirited country girl is something new and spicy for him.He knows she has been physically abused by a religious fanatic father and she is deathly afraid of physical intimacy but that doesn't matter.
And not only was the character Kate raped and brutalized in childhood, but Julien, the man who supposedly loves her, thinks that her reticence in the bedroom is merely a case of nerves and sets out to forcibly change her mind.Now, I realize that the characters of Kate and Julien are loosely based upon Taming of the Shrew, but where that play was strictly comedy (I don't even take the Shakespearean Katherine's end soliquy seriously--and neither does she), this Katherine is not only a royal pushover, she seems bent on forgiving everything.
She does, however, show a little spirit when she takes down a scandalous former love interest who was trying to get her hands upon the oh so virile Julien.And Julien...Ms. Coulter has created some wonderful and warm male leads, and Julien St. Clair simply isn't one of them.
Not to mention that it is downright offensive to have a the main male character rape his wife...
How is that sexy?)Oh, and we find out towards the end that that our main character had been raped as a child, but the author makes sure that her "husbands" actions actually help her heal from her past trauma.
What?I wanted to slap the main male role throughout the entire book.Ok, but see..
I guess I just can't get past how unlovable the main male role was.
Bravo for such and for such an inspiring love story Ms. Coulter.
Much as appreciate the standard elements of a historical romance novel, I often find myself annoyed by either the heroine, the hero, or the many, many unnecessary ways they choose to wound each other.
Julien could have had no idea those problems were much more serious, more permanent, more damaging than a virgin's fear of sex.See, Katherine isn't a virgin.
While I appreciated that the author shows this guilt, and has her characters react with mostly realistic behavior afterwards, it was never quite enough for me.Yes, Julien becomes a pretty selfless husband working diligently to "heal" his wife.
Julian is a bored aristocrate in London, who goes to his country estate.
It's love at first sight for Julian.
Kathryn enjoys his company but doesn't see him as a romantic partner.
Instead of seeing his proposal as a saving grace, Kathryn is scared and becomes obnoxious to push Julian away.
But he will no be denied, so he arranges for her to go to London where he courts her.
Kathryn doesn't know why she's scared of Julian and it's not revealed until the end.
He is so in lust, because I didn't see any love in his actions, he kidnaps and rapes her.
This book was very good...the plot was just enough of a "plot" to interest me and keep me engaged with the right amoutn of romance.
I thought the herioine clever, but a bit silly, which actually added to her charm.
I also liked the hero, however he solved the mystory a bit too easy.
I thought the book took an interesting look at rape, though frankly I didn't like the hero's involvement in that at all and thought it didn't treat the subject with the seriousness it deserved.
However, overall, I had a great time with this novel.
This is one of the worst books I have ever read. I was actually so angry after I read it that I wrote a letter to the author the next day. It has exactly what is wrong with "bodice rippers" embodied in the relationship in this book. Just skip it.
Hero did a deplorable thing, but I couldn't put down this book. I like it and then I hate it because of what he did.
Subtle hints here and there imply that the heroine was an older child, perhaps nine or ten when her traumatic event occurred, yet it has been completely buried?
What a load of nonsense, especially considering that her father's entire attitude toward her was ABOUT said event.
This story could have been just as easily pulled off had the entire "I don't remember" thing simply been removed and the heroine been allowed to acknowledge and act on her personal history.
There is a scene in which a very haughty patroness at Almacks takes a liking to our heroine BECAUSE she has the gall to openly insult her and act arrogant.
I really liked the story, except (and it is a big except) for the rapes and child abuse.
But I still enjoyed this book a lot, because I love the premise of the story: Hero is besotted with the heroine from the minute he saw her, and will go to any length to have her, as she fights him until almost the end.
There are so few romance books (like this one) where the hero has no commitment issues, and does not struggle with his attraction for the heroine.
--- Diane ™The story is compelling.
The hero rapes the heroine while married to her because she won't sleep with him after they marry and he's tired of waiting.
He only intends to make love to her but when he realizes she isn't a virgin, he gets mad and hurts her.
No woman deserves to be raped even if she isn't a virgin when you were expecting one.
Still I did enjoy it the first time I read it and I've read it maybe 3 times so there must be something worth while here.
Maybe it's the angst level.
It's very high and I typically enjoy the angst.
A little on the slow side so far, but hinting at just enough plot points that I am looking forward to finishing it. Great characters, loveable but not so perfect that they are unbelieveable. After finishing the book I am horrified. It was ruined! I loved the characters until they turned into a spineless whiner and a rapist. AND SHE FORGAVE HIM!!!! Interesting way to bring the issues to a head, but not forgivable!
This story had promise.
A sassy heroine who likes to sword fight, duel and wear pants.
A rogue hero who seems smitten by the heroine's sassiness.
Then the author ruins the entire story by having Julien rape his wife.
Not just in an historically accurate--you're my wife, you must obey--sort of way.
I just can't deal with stories like these.
Even if marital rape is historically accurate, there is no reason why, in a romance novel, authors have to stoop to it.
Why can't historical heros actually be heros?
One of the my two favorite Catherine Coulter books, this was your typical romance story until it took a dark turn. I did not appreciate how the hero raped the heroine (a recurring theme for this author amd completely uneccesary) but other than that, the story was resolved well.
The difficult thing about reading books from the 70’s and 80’s is that certain things happen in them that would not be easily accepted now. It’s written well, it’s just that certain scenes are distasteful and hard to get through.
The first scene of this book was of the main character in bed with a servant. I read the first page and put it away. I went back and read the Introduction for the book and knew I wouldn’t like it. I don’t want to read junk like this.
I found this book quite boring, I expected better from this author that I like very much.
Rape is not romantic. Falling in love with your rapist is unrealistic.
Kate has no desire to consummate the marriage, and Julien believes it is because she is a fearful virgin bride.
Kate starts having nightmares which reveal to Julien that she was raped as a girl but has repressed the memory.
What follows is their return home to England, and Julien attempting to help Kate work through the nightmares of her childhood.
And, of course, Julien admitting that he was actually the German lord who kidnapped and raped her.
I thought that the story dragged in places, especially during Julien's failed seduction attempt leading up to Kate's flight to Paris.
I found myself crying for the heroine, and I love stories that get me so caught up emotionally.
But, let the reader be aware, this is a typical 1980's style romance, meaning that it includes forced sex as part of the heroine's "seduction." In this case, Coulter does not present the rape as romance- she makes clear that it was wrong and unacceptable, which I commend her for, but I have to say I didn't find any of the sex scenes particularly sexy.
That it got published is a testament to the fact that this is a really strong, emotionally engaging story.
Read for Fun/Listened for Review (Library/Brilliance Audio)Overall Rating: 3.00Story Rating: 2.50Character Rating: 3.50Audio Rating: 4.00 (not part of the rating)First Thoughts when Finished: The Rebel Bride is one of those books from my early reading days that I loved but unfortunately has about 20% towards the end that is really hard to handle now that I am older.Quick Thoughts: I used to love Bodice Rippers.
There is about 20% of this story that I wish would get updated (even more than it did) because otherwise Julien and Kate are fantastic characters.
Or maybe it's better to say he's like a child, he sees no fault in what he does and takes no responsibility.
Then he discovers she was raped as a child more than once, he gets mad that they did this and that her father beat her for it.
All before this he knows there's something wrong with her, but he only thinks about what he wants.
Although he only realizes it because he discovers she was raped before, so if he didn't know that would he have realized he was wrong?
I didn't like the writing, it showed being a rewritten story.
He just suddenly decides he will marry her and that she will like it but just doesn't know it yet (stalker material, yep, definately).The heroine's character was all over the place.
The hero was a condescending asshole who stalked her, forced her into a marriage and then when he rapes her, feels it is somehow acceptable considering the circumstances.She even goes to him in the end to make up.
next thing I know you'll be telling me raping her was for the best so she could remember her past and get over it *puke*
I do not know how to rate this book.
The heroine was completely awesome until she apologized to Julien for the crap he put her through.
I have no idea why in the last several pages of Catherine Coulter's books there is EXTREME unrest followed by a hasty amends.
Princess Hissy Fit (Julien) was lovable enough until he started thinking that he needed sex.2.
Yeah, Julien.
She's just going to apologize and forgive you anything.
Yeah, there are no happy endings in this subject matter.
This story was basically Devil's Embrace without a yacht.Hats off to the author for the emotional response.
For a time back in the 80’s & 90’s, my reading material of choice was frequently bodice rippers, historical fiction, and regency romances with a few contemporary best sellers thrown in for good measure.
If there is a rating, it must have been in some way memorable for me.I only wish that GoodReads had been around years ago so that I had some idea of the many books I have read – there were thousands!
young Lady Katharine Brandon was a beauty, with her rich auburn hair, striking green eyes, flawless face and form.
But a beauty was one thing Katharine clearly had no interest in being.
as she dresses in young man's breeches, practiced dueling with pistol with her and rapier, gambled with cards, she defied her father's commands and evaded all suitors.but Katherine is suprise when the fabulously wealthy, notoriously pleasure-loving , Julien St. Clair, Earl of March, demanded her as his wife.
she is dismay when her father demanded his price and took it making her wed Julian.
I did enjoy most of this book.
And I also would have come to enjoy Julien, but then he went and kidnapped and raped his wife because he was horny and just had to have her.
It's not like he forced himself on an unsuspecting female right?
Kate was his wife and he had every right to bed her.
Yeah right.
Sure when she found out she was heartbroken and totally kicked his ass, but by the end of the book it was okay that he raped her because she remembered her childhood rape and was able to move past that.
And that one incident just ruined the book for me.
Well, I tried to like it.
A significant portion of the plot was right up my alley (abused heroine).
But...(view spoiler)[ I could not forgive the hero for the rape.
There just is no excuse.
And he hardly seems sorry, only feeling guilty when he finds out that she was raped as a child (because apparently it is ok to have raped her had she taken a lover).
Ugh. I mean, I try to tone down my internal feminist when reading bodice-rippery romance, but, just....
UGH.
(hide spoiler)] I will continue to read Catherine Coulter because she has a penchant for abused heroines and angst, but this one was beyond the pale for me.
I honestly dont know where to begin,there are bits of the book i love and bits i hate.it was not so 
