https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/613788.Bible_and_Sword
In fact, that is the thing that is so surprising about this book – it glories in the return of the wandering Jew, finally able to complete the prayer, ‘Next year in Jerusalem’ – while completely ignoring any claim hundreds of generations of Palestinian Arabs may have to the same stretch of land.This is a terribly strange book.
Don’t expect to learn anything from this book about the Arabs who lived on this land during the 1900 odd years while the Jews were absent.
The book examines the relationship between England and the Holy Land over the past 2,000 years, and how that relationship led to the Balfour Declaration, a 1917 statement by Britain that it intended for Palestine (recently wrested from the dying clutches of the Ottoman Empire) to be a national home for the Jewish people.
Without the Bible, the Balfour Declaration (and ultimately, Israel) might never have happened.EconomicsWhile religion continued to play a major role in the way the British approached their relationship with Palestine, as time went on economics took on more and more importance.
It’s difficult to study the last 2,000 years of world history without noticing Israel. Just sayin’. This book covers a good chunk of that time while various people, for various reasons, with wildly different interpretations of biblical prophecy, do everything in their power to force the fulfillment of those prophecies. 19 centuries later, it all worked out. I applaud the effort. That kind of determination deserves an honorable mention. This is fascinating history of Britain’s relationship with Palestine. Recommended.

Wonderfully written.
The book is a little unfinished for the modern reader as it ends in 1956 and Ms. Tuchman had no way of knowing how the state of Israel would develop. Still the premise and scholarship are both A1. She traces the history of England's connection to Palestine and the Jewish people from mythical pre Roman times right up to the partition of 1947. The twists and turns are fascinating and I recommend this book which is readable even to those who might not go in with a lot of knowledge on the subjects and figures presented.
What can one say, Barbara Tuchman is a great history writer.
She's able to explain why, pre Holocaust, Western Jews were far less Zionist than their Eastern European, Official Pogrom-scarred brethren, and why many other subtle influences effect the flow of this particular history.
I will say that the Indigenous Voice of the Palestinian Arabs is Notably Absent, in this book, replaced by far more interest in the thoughts of Iraqi/Jordanian/Saudi rulers, but then that is more a reflection of the times, when the Palestinian ethnic was more subsumed within a Jordanian identity, before the 6 Day War rent it asunder.
Having read and enjoyed a number of books by Tuchman I picked this up from a sale shelf at The Amarynth Bookstore in Evanston.
Being her first book, it isn't as polished as her later bestsellers.Basically, the book covers relations between Britain and Palestine from an English perspective.
For instance, she writes that the Jews were "the only people on earth ever to retain national identity without a national territory" (p.224)--a statement which might upset some Kurds, among others.Other essays by Tuchman make it clear that she was very pro-Israel and neglectful of the other inhabitants of the land now occupied by that state.
While apparent herein, this perspective was not, to my eyes, obtrusive.
As always, Tuchman is simply brilliant. I would give it five stars except that as her first book, it suffers a bit style wise compared to the others. It is as much a history of the Reformation as it is a history of the Jews' struggle to survive in Europe without a homeland of their own. An amazing story about diplomacy, politics and war. Read this first and then Exodus.
Meh. I found it difficult to concentrate on this book, and it was a chore to finish. Some of it was interesting. Some passages hinted at an anti-Arab bias. I'm glad I finished. I hope to move on to more interesting books on the subject.
Drags a little toward the end, with the murkiness of British politics. Overall, a fascinating read.
This book, a find among the $1 bargains at The Word bookstore on Milton St. became my introduction to the superb popular historical writer, Barbara Tuchman.
If I took it home from the store it was because it promised to enlarge my understanding of history connecting these dots together: Britain's fable of Brutus / Gomer pre-Celt ancestors, early pilgrimages to the Holy Land, the Crusades, the Bible in English, the Puritans, Lord Shaftesbury, Benjamin Disraeli, Lord Kitchener, Theodore Herzl, Zionists, and finally culminating in the Balfour declaration and the British mandate in Palestine.The writer had me right from the preface when she explained why she finished this book at the Balfour declaration (2nd of November 1917) and the British mandate and left out the subsequent turbulent history that had evolved before this book was published in 1956.
Let's just say that Barbara Tuchman is a historical writer well worth reading.
This book is about the interplay of Bible and Sword i.e. Religion and Military and the role they played in the arrival of British in Palestine and subsequently the Jews.
This book traces out the history of Britain to find out exactly how and when the idea of Jewish return to Palestine came into existence.
This book starts with British people trying to find their ancestors.
The idea of Jewish return to Palestine was pushed further and further.
Balfour had studied Bible since childhood and was an avid believer of Return of the Jews to the Promised Land.
если и затрагивается история Англии, то только тогда, когда это как-то связанно с еврейским народом.
Скорее это попытка «чтобы было похоже».За всё то время, что я читал книгу, я два раза думал бросить чтение.
Я уже не говорю про то, что это придаёт книге не научный, а религиозный привкус.Если говорить о самом сюжете, то он заключается в том, чтобы показать, как история Англия связана с историей Палестины и еврейским народом.
Насколько это соответствует действительности, я не берусь судить.Хочу сразу пояснить, что проблема не в истории движения евреев в Палестину.
В противном случаи, мне было бы интересно читать и историю евреев, т.к.
However, I would have liked to have heard more about what was happening in Palestine between the original Hebrew exit and the Crusades and then again, between the end of the final crusade and the British mandate.Unfortunately, this book largely misses the exodus, the fall of the Roman empire in Palestine, the Byzantine empire, Mohommad's conquest of Jerusalem, the Ummayads, the rise of the Mamluks and the Ottomans.The other aspect that was somewhat troubling started in the introduction where Ms. Tuchman explains how after researching this topic she comes down unequivocably on the side of the Jews in this conflict.
Ms. Tuchman takes the story from the Bronze Age into the Christian era all the way up to the Balfour Declaration.
This book however, is more about the British and their reason for wanting to control a piece of the Middle East.
It really gets interesting after the Crusades and during the Victorian Era. Lord Shaftesbury was a politician, philanthropist and a Christian who believed that England needed to control the Holy Land so that when the Jews were ready they could return to make a prophecy come true.
This was a very interesting perspective on the Middle East and Great Britain’s ties to it as part of their empire.
In this case, she tells the story of how Great Britain came to be so involved with the reestablishment of the nation of Israel, although the story only goes up to the Balfour Declaration.The short answer to that question is that Britain was deeply influenced culturally by the Old Testament (Hebrew Bible) since the Middle Ages.
Indeed, she makes a case for the Old Testament being more important than the New Testament to their culture, even though they were a Catholic nation, and later a Protestant one.
An interesting question for me is: to what extent does the Old Testament still influence British culture and governmental policy?
Beyond the beauty of Tuchman’s prose and analysis, the historical details she outlines of the conflicts that have shaped our ideals of God & Country are vital to mature JudeoChristian opinions.
Barbara Tuchman's first work of history, Bible and Sword: England and Palestine from the Bronze Age To Balfour, is vast in historical, religious, diplomatic and political scholarship.
From the early times of the Beaker people and Caliphates to the first crusades and pilgrimages, all the way down to the creation of the Jewish homeland by the aristocratic and willowy former British Prime Minister Authur James Balfour and the Balfour Declaration of 1917 as well as the often overlooked Palestine Mandate, nothing is left out in describing how Israel came into being and England's often historically forgotten role in its conception.

I also had never understood why the British meddled so much in the middle east.
The book was also interesting on the subject of the waxing and waning interest that Britain took in Palestine over the years.
As a side note, it never occurred to me that to take a pilgrimage to Jerusalem from England in the Middle Ages, you had to walk, including going over the Alps, yet thousands of people did it.
On the whole this is a very interesting book on what I thought was an unusual subject.
The Bible and the Sword is a comprehensive look at the formation of the Jewish homeland in Israel.
Unlike "Lost to the West" which was lively and engaging, "The Bible and the Sword" often gets caught in a quagmire of detail.
Where this would be an excellent text to understand the nuances of middle east conflict in a college class, it sacrifices story telling for detail.If your goal is to get a deep understanding of the history behind the Israeli state, this is a good book.
This is what you get when a hater writes a book.
I really dont even understand how could she write books like "guns of august" if she researches her books same way she did here.
I don't understand how a "historian" says that the crusades were against the turks,, or how "portions of Syria lying to the west of the districts of Damascus, Homs, Hama and Aleppo.." from McMahon–Hussein Correspondence becomes Palestine (all you need is some knowledge in Geography to figure out that this is Lebanon)I will not talk about the more than 100 times she claims the Jews are the legitimate owners of the land of Palestine,,or about 10s of times she accused the Arabs and Muslims of transferring Palestine into barren land.
I see that normal for a "hater" whom her eyes are totally clouded
Very interesting book.
If you read her later books, you can tell this is her first attempt, but its still very good.
I thought it was interesting how Christianity's importance ebbed and flowed- in in the 1600s, out in the 1700s, in in the 1800s, back out toward the end of the century.
Barbara Tuchman wrote this from a Jewish perspective, and writes about 30 times that the Christians were crazy for ever thinking Jews would convert to Christianity (thereby fulfilling New Testament prophecy), but they were instrumental in getting the Jewish people their homeland (which fulfilled part of the prophecy) against all odds.
This is an important book to read as the eminent historian traces the religious and political relationships between Great Britain and Palestine culminating in the 1917 Balfour declaration and mandate. Add to the mix other national interests (i.e. the Turks/Ottomans, the French, the Russians, the Germans, other Middle Eastern nations); the three religions; the competition for trade routes and ports including the Suez Canal; and various wars including WWI all which force the reader to conclude that understanding the Middle East is not easy and perhaps not possible. It is a great place to start however.
This is one of the best reads in a while. Barbara Tuchman (and much of the 19th and early 20th century British Government were more "Zionistic" than many even in Israel today.According to Tuchman, due to British evangelical aspersions and political machinations, were caught in their own trap and HAD to accept Mandatory Palestine as a home for the Jews and even according to the Mandatory treaty (as drafted by the British Government and accepted by the League of Nations), with no mention of the Arabs at all.
cannot fathom how this author won a pulitzer for general non-fiction. taking comfort that it was only the 2nd year the prize was awarded, but still. to call this book non-fiction is a giant stretch. nice footnotes. nice references. great story-telling abilities but absolute FAIL as a history book. historical fiction, sure. she writes like she was alive during the bronze age- which would be truly impressive, but isn't the case. do not ever use as a reference book. your professor/peers will laugh you out of the classroom/field.filed under 'non-ficton' very very reluctantly.
Very well written like all her books. It is only 3 stars for me, however, as the subject matter is not of great interest for me. But well worth reading for everyone with an interest in world history.The book is mainly about the efforts over the centuries to find a homeland for the Jewish Diaspora.The book ends with the Balfour declaration during WW I pledging Palestine as the homeland to be created under British auspices. Sadly the British then reneged after the end of the war.
"Bible and Sword" is a history book about England and the Jewish State. It is well written and kept my interest throughout. It is a bit of an "old lady" book like... helping an old lady across the street. The author is making a lot of assumptions about where I want to cross the street and how fast I need to go. The title narrowed the subject but we were moving pretty fast through it all. Nevertheless, she is a good writer.It was worth reading.
Tuchman has a knack for writing readable, incisive, and pithy history. Bible and Sword focuses on England's relationship with Palestine from the Roman Empire to the Balfour Declaration in 1917. It was an unusually broad topic but quite a fascinating one. As the title suggests, both religious affinity toward Judaism and imperial interests in securing a pathway between the British Isles and India drove British involvement in the region as Zionism was taking root.
