https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207577.Scrambled_Eggs_Super_
But what about an egg? This bird and that bird.This way and that way. "  A humorous collection of imaginative animals that contribute to a super deluxe egg omelette.The clever rhymes are married with equally vivid pictures.
Pictures in this book are funny and scary.I enjoyed the rhyming very much.
Read this book to a class of first graders.I love sharing Dr. Seuss books with children, especially the less-heard of books like "Scrambled Eggs Super!" The children loved the pictures and stories of how Peter T. Hooper got all of the different eggs from all of the different birds so that he could make scrambled eggs. As usual, the rhymes and made-up names of birds were a hit with the kids. The illustrations were also wonderful and funny. A Dr. Seuss book, well-read, can still captivate 23 first graders!
I think this is one of the lesser known books by Dr. Seuss, I've never heard of it and Hollywood couldn't have either cos they ain't made it into a movie yet.In this book Dr. Seuss using his usual rhyming skills to promote the stealing of eggs from rare birds so that you can make the best scrambled eggs ever. I do have concerns that a lot of these birds don't exist, but I got a result for each one on Google so well done to Dr. Seuss for making these incredible birds rhyme. Top stuff.
Well I wanted to like it, but that's not going to happen. Very long winded book that keeps making up hard to say bird names. I didn't see any positive messages come across like in other Seuss works. Idk it was all take and steal, destroy and devour. Usually the lesson we want our children to learn is to respect nature, but that is the opposite of what comes across here. I think any innocent child would enjoy the story if they didn't dig any deeper.
I didn't like this book! When i think about a children's book, i think about a book that can TEACH good values and behaviour, meanwhile entertain a young audience. This book does the oposite, the only thing i could say that i "learned" was that it's ok to trick and steal things from others if you want to have the best, and also is ok to brag about things you can do. I don't know if i'm being to hard but as a teacher, i wouldn't give a book like this one to my students...
I had never heard of this Dr. Seuss book before, but found it the other day when I was helping with a project at the library. The idea is interesting, a young boy (Peter T. Hooper), wants to create the best scrambled eggs ever so he goes all over the world collecting bird's eggs. The crazy names Seuss comes up with for the birds is awesome, though the story goes on for much too long.
I love eggs and I loved this.
How about you don't be an asshole, and take all those animals' eggs?
Why did he have to steal all those eggs? Poor birds and somethinglikebirds!Was he going to cook for 350 people? -_-
Classic Seuss, but not his best nor most memorable. Wacky creatures with even wackier names? Check. I picked this up specifically because I did not remember having read it as a child. As it happens, I hadn't missed out on very much. There are much better Seuss books to choose from.
I honestly tell when he puts his heart into his work because the rhymes are spot on, the illustrations are beautiful and the nonsense of it all is intriguing and helps me lost myself into the world of Dr. Seuss.We are introduced to a boy name Peter T.
He simply can't have one or two special eggs so he travels around the world both near and far with special friends to help him find rare eggs.
I love how Dr. Seuss created different birds, giving them unique and peculiar names and at the same time he made them the lines rhyme and it was easy to read and understand.
But still, this is a fun book to read with the trademark Seuss rhymes and wacky creatures.Random thoughts:How funny that this has a Beagle-Beaked-Bald-Headed Grinch!
Is that a relative of the Grinch we all know and love?I agree with those who say it is somewhat disturbing that the boy is stealing eggs from all kinds of exotic birds - even if they are birds made up by Dr. Seuss.
How many eggs does one boy need?I wouldn't suggest trying out his recipes for scrambled eggs.
"Scrambled Eggs Super!" may be my least liked Dr. Seuss book ever! The made up words annoyed me and got repetitive. For some reason, this book robbed me the wrong way. Just the idea of stealing eggs from rare birds- even make believe ones from a children's picture book- seemed like a horrible lesson to teach kids.
Fun Dr. Seuss crazy adventure. It is good, in a classic Dr. Seuss way, but seems to last a little too long. Could have been 1/2 or 2/3rds as long and have been every bit as enjoyable. Would be hard to get through the whole thing while reading to a child I think.
Oh Dr. Seuss! I still feel bad that I haven't read this book any sooner.This will be talking about Peter's amazing, fantastic and mouth-watering scrambled eggs! Imagination, oh the imagination of a child.
Scrambled eggs Super-Dee Dooper-dee-Booper, Special de luxe à-la Peter T. Hooper
This book kept my little sister saying, "Oh wow, come on!" Haha :P Very cute(:
My favorite Dr. Seuss book! I've read it too many times to count!
My girlfriend and I found a "Super" old vintage version of this at an antique store and it was the coolest thing in the shop. That's all that needs to be said about it.
Dr. Seuss!
How would it be if someone would do some research on the Proper Names Dr. Seuss uses in all his books. :) I guess it would be amazing..
Such a strange adventure of a boy who dreamed to make super scrambled eggs. I don't like his way to achieve it. But, i think everything is only in his imagination...
After this I was an official egg slut.
Not only are they much brighter but also colour coordinated for reading levels.Blue Back Books for parents to share with young children, Green Back Books for budding readers to tackle on their own, and Yellow Back Books for older, more fluent readers to enjoy.Considering how popular Dr. Seuss is, Scrambled Egg Super!
The moment I began reading I was hooked.Peter T Hooper sets out to find in order to use only the best eggs for his scrambled eggs.
He enlists the help of friends who can travel across waters and to far off places to get these eggs.I loved how the writing rhymed and flowed throughout the pages of Scrambled Egg Super!.
My Review: This is one of the few Dr. Seuss books I never read as a child, so it was exciting to be able to read this with Munchkin.
Munchkin is big on cooking and especially likes breakfast so that was an added element of interest.
It was a fun book to read, full of rhymes, classic made up names, and lots of tongue twisters to trip me up and give Munchkin a good laugh.
It was a bit long and did take a couple of sittings to read but all in all it was an entertaining read, but not our favorite Dr. Seuss.
OK, I don't like this book. It's boring.BUT!My little daughter enjoys it so much that just today she asked me to read it again, as soon as I finished it. And she's never asked this in her whole life (almost 4 yrs)!I know that lots of people think it's not nice that the boy takes the eggs. It is stealing. But come on! The boy BOASTS! Our little readers KNOW it is just fantasy, these birds do not exist, so Peter couldn't take their eggs.So, calm down, and read it when your child asks so :)
Several very funny pages. The drawings and names of the animal species are awesome. (What a great way to learn to sound out words, also.) And Peter T. Hooper is sort of the anti-Lorax (he chops down old growth forest and takes off the top of a mountain, anything for his scrambled egg dish). The story seems slightly creepy to me now as an adult, but I don't remember thinking it was creepy when I was a child.
Scrambled eggs super! by Dr. SeussPeter knows his the best cook he tells Liz. Rhyming children's book about how he discovers a new way to make scrambled eggs.He has tried all kinds of new things. Hen's eggs are what are used-he has other ideas.Love all the new silly words, wicked funny. I received this review book from The Kensington Books and this is my honest opinion.
When it comes to scrambling, Peter T. Hooper isn't content with any old egg! He claims to use something extra special for his super-dee-dooper dishes.By combining the funniest stories, craziest creatures and zaniest pictures with his unique blend of rhyme, rhythm and repetition, Dr. Seuss helps children of all ages and abilities learn to read.
