https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659612.Seeds_of_Yesterday
CRYING SO HARD RIGHT NOW.
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars for Seeds of Yesterday, the 4th book in the "Dollanganger" thriller and young adult series, written in 1984 by V.C. Andrews. When I first read this series, I absolutely loved the characters and plot. It was mesmerizing and felt just dark enough to pass the reality line, but not too far where I thought it was completely unbelievable. Somewhere around books 3 and 4, it fell down for me. It wasn't horrible, but it wasn't as good as the originals. I still enjoy hearin
Book Review
3 out of 5 stars for Seeds of Yesterday, the 4th book in the "Dollanganger" thriller and young adult series, written in 1984 by V.C. Andrews.
When I first read this series, I absolutely loved the characters and plot.
It's a fine line to say what turns a good person bad, and a bad person to redemption.
Writing is similar.
I gave it a 3 as it's worth the read, have some cautions with it, but would still want to finish the series.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
This is all that you need to know about this book:Uncle Joel: "Evil! Evil! Evil! Sin! Sin! Sin!"Bart: "Mother, if you stop sleeping with your brother, I'll be nice and good forever and ever. Until then, I WILL DESTROY YOU ALL!”Cathy: Is too busy eavesdropping on the rest of her family to have much to say.Melodie: "How can I possibly be expected to love someone who is only half a man? Oh, heeeeyyyy Bart."Jory: "I sure wish Melodie would come to see me. What does she do with her time anyway?"Chris: "Wha'd I miss?"
"I am caught between Heaven and Hell in a kind of purgatory where ghosts of the past roam the hallways at night."Foxworth Hall has been built again.I just finished a long-overdue re-read of the finale of the five-book Dollanganger saga.
Yes, I'd forgotten most of it, with the exception of the oh-so-sad ending and the return to a manor that once terrified everyone in the series.While Flowers in the Attic started the journey that destroyed four innocent young lives, the series continued to follow the mains Cathy and Chris who had to cling to each other for sanity and life long after they left the attic.
The ending of the book was actually beautiful.
This book particularly reads unrealistically when it comes to most of the dialogue.
As for Chris and Cathy's enduring love...I was very moved yet again by them.
A fitting end."It's tear-shaped, Cathy - for all the tears I would have cried inside if you had never let me love you." ~ Chris"You grow more handsome with each passing year." I stepped closer to encircle his waist with my arms as my cheek rested against his back.
On my way to where I'd find my Christopher, again..." ~ Cathy"There's a garden in the sky, waiting there for me.
Todo mereció la pena por ese epílogo.“Hay un jardin en el cielo, que esta esperando. Es un jardin que Chris y yo imaginamos hace muchos años, mientras yaciamos en una losa dura y negra del tejado y contemplabamos el Sol y las estrellas”
Combine all of the horribly tragic events of the first two books into one, add Chris and Cathy as an old married couple and you have this dreck.(view spoiler)[Seeds of Yesterday starts up 15 years after If There Be Thorns, when Corrine died in the after the fire, we find out that she left the entire Foxworth fortune to Jory and Bart.
She gets caught with another guy later in the story, but I will probably forget about it by the time I get there, so I'm telling you now.Melodie starts showing, so Bart discards her like milk that's a week past its expiration date.
This series is seriously addictive.
Seeds of Yesterday was really an engaging novel and one of the most heart breaking book I've come across.
I had enjoyed Cathy and Chris's journey since the first novel, and this book has perfectly wrapped up their story and it was a very peaceful ending.
I am really gonna miss every characters.
But the one that I will miss the most is Christopher.
The story between Cathy and Chris will remain forever in my heart.
Don't touch me! That epilogue! That freaking epilogue! "The Dollanganger Saga is over. You'll find the last manuscript in my private vault. Do with it what you will". My poor feels. "I did manage to convince one person, at last that he did have the right father. And it wasn't too late, Bart. It's never too late." My poor children. My poor heart.
"Seeds of Yesterday" is the final saga of Cathy and Chris from the "Flowers in the Attic" series and the characters have come full circle in this novel.
Jory and Melodie come for a visit, along with Cindy (Chris and Cathy's adopted daughter from "Thorns") and their long presumed dead Uncle Joel Foxworth shows up - - much as John Amos Jackson did in "Thorns".
Although this story is told again from the perspective of Cathy, and feels much more comfortable than the narrative of "Thorns", Bart again seems depraved and warped.
Chris and Cathy's love story continues and is as bittersweet and tender as ever.
The first book was amazing, the second was great, the third was alright, but infuriating at time and by the 4th I had stopped caring.
I wanted to put this book down so many times, but was determined to see it through.
She could do all that during all the time she wasn't at home.
The moment Chris took his new job and then announced he would be gone Monday - Friday I knew what was going to happen.Like I say, I'm glad I finished those four books.
Fue imposible no llorar al finalizarlo. Fue imposible no repetir con Cathy 'No mi Chris, no mi Christopher Doll' o llorar con su ultima carta. Una gran historia con un final totalmente inesperado. Cuando se lee la historia de los Dollanganger se puede ver una especie de estructura cíclica, características de la familia que se repiten de generación en generación.
“Cuando me halle en aquel cuarto frio, tenebroso, sin muebles ni alfombras con solo una casa de munecas que no era tan hermosa como la que yo recordaba, abri la alargada y angosta puerta y comence mi ascension por los peldanos altos y estrechos. Camino del atico, hacia el lugar donde habia encontrado a mi Christopher, para reunirme con el otra vez...”No estoy triste ni nada..., SOLO ESTOY DESTRUIDA. Vengamos todos a hacer una filita y depositar nuestras lágrimas sagradas en una botella. Hermosa
“Cuando me hallé en aquel cuarto frío, tenebroso, sin muebles ni alfombras con sólo una casa de muñecas que no era tan hermosa como la que yo recordaba, abrí la alargada y angosta puerta y comencé mi ascensión por los peldaños altos y estrechos. Camino del ático, hacia el lugar donde había encontrado a mi Christopher, para reunirme con él otra vez...”No estoy triste ni nada..., SOLO ESTOY DESTRUIDA. Vengamos todos a hacer una filita y depositar nuestras lágrimas sagradas en una botella. Hermosa saga, PRECIOSA. La amo. Sin duda una de mis favoritas.
Cathy and Chris are still the same bores they always were.Jory (ugh, that name) is still mister perfect.Bart is still an oozing walking herp sore that's consistently on its period.Cindy turned into quite the little slut.The newest addition to the family is Uncle Joel, one of Corrine's brothers thought to be long dead.
Nice.A bunch of bad things happen such as: Jory becomes paralyzed and then his pregnant wife cheats on him with Bart then leaves him after giving birth.Cindy is a slut who keeps getting caught having sex.Cathy constantly whines to Chris and Chris gets pissy with her about it.Bart has wild mood swings and Uncle Joel is just evil.
Seeds of Yesterday (Dollanganger, #4), V.C. Andrews
The book was amazing! When i read it i cried. This is one of the best books I have ever read.
LO AMÉ LO AMÉ LO AMÉAMÉ COMO ESTA NARRADOAMÉ A LOS PERSONAJESAMÉ A JORY Y A BARTAMÉ LA HISTORIAAMÉ A CHRISAMÉ ESTA SAGA
'Hay un jardín en el cielo, que está esperando. Es un jardín que Chris y yo imaginamos hace muchos años, mientras yacíamos en una losa dura y negra del tejado y contemplábamos las estrellas.'
I got the impression that Ms. Andrews was unsure of how to wrap things up, and it seemed to end just a bit too neatly for my taste.
From what I've read the prequel to this series "Garden of Shadows" was ghostwritten by Andrew Neiderman, so I may hold off on that one for a bit.
I'm curious about the early works in her "Heaven" series, only because she supposedly penned the first two and half novels before Neiderman took over.
(Link: https://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/ar...)Review for book 3: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Seeds of Yesterday is the 4th book of the Dollanganger series, it offers lot and lot of family melodramas but not much of the Gothic romance charms from the previous books, plus the ending is a bit weak too---it isn't a bad nor an unreasonable ending, but I don't think it's a strong enough conclusion neither.I'm glad to finish reading the entire Dollanganger saga and I enjoy this series so much, will try to watch the TV drama adaptation later, like I do with the adaptations based on the previous books.
Tačiau „Praeities sėklos“ nėra paskutinė visos sagos knyga.
Bet grįžkime prie mano perskaitytos knygos – „Praeities sėklos“.Veiksmas pasakojamas po dar daugiau metų – Keti ir Krisas jau penkiasdešimtmečiai žmonės, o jų vakai – visiškai suaugę.
Sindi – spindinti šešiolikmetė gražuolė, Džoris – baleto šokėjas, vedęs savo vaikystės meilę baleriną Melodi, na, o Bartas – vis dar dėl pinigų pakvaišęs turtuolis.
Deja, nelaimės būta nemažos, Džoris lieka paralyžuotas iki pusės – jis niekada negalės ne tik šokti, bet ir vaikščioti.
Vienintelis dalykas apie kurį galvojau perskaičius knygas – „Kad tik vėl pavyktų bibliotekoje rasti kitos sagos visas dalis!“ Labai tikiuosi, kad pavyks!
A flat tire & tepid ending to Cathy & Chris' story.
There's very little fire & guts to the soap plotting, & what precious dollops there are come courtesy of Cindy (that awesome little tramp :D) as she clashes with Bart and/or sexes up various disposable boyfriends.
Indeed, unlike Cathy's annoying refusal to face down Bart for his abusive behavior, Cindy alone recognized the depth of his issues & refused to condone that shit.
Bart's idiocy is only bearable when the pain is shared.
Again, I say my copies are worn and dog eared from the multiple readings.
These books fully engrossed my imagination - twice.
I may have to read them agian now that I am reviewing them for this site.This book is picks up with the third generation of dysfunction.
Cathy's two sons and their rivalry.
They return to Foxworth Hall (or at least the rebuilt version)which has been left to Bart (Cathy's son by her mother's second husband - gotta love it).
However, it seems that Bart's desire to have what belongs to Jory rules the story.
Most of the novel was scandalous with the incest and slut-shaming, Cathy being holier-than-thou, creepers being creepy, and Bart being a narcissist sociopath.With all that, the ending was under-whelming. I was like wat?Honestly, Bart, would make a terrible oh, who am I kidding, he would make a wonderful televangelist.
Seeds of Yesterday is the 4th book in this series, and to be honest, the Dollanganger series sort of lost its shock value after the first one. The disturbing theme of incest and child abuse that made the first in the series gain so much attention from horrified and interested readers, lost its edge a long time ago and has just become weird and disgusting by the 4th book. It's repetitive, it's typical and the characters are so unfairly put upon throughout that it just isn't realistic.
La historia es prácticamente un reciclaje de cuanto ocurrió en el segundo libro, ya que toma muchos elementos, desarrollo de personajes o eventos y los pasa a este libro.
(view spoiler)[ Para la muestra un botón: el accidente de Jory, el nacimiento de los gemelos, John Amos Jackson 2, la muerte de Chris tal como murió su padre, etc, etc.
Una vez más, quedé sumamente insatisfecha cuando lo malo que le ocurrió a esta familia sólo le ocurre a los personajes que merecen la pena.Bart, para empezar, es sencillamente detestable.
Bu kitabın sonunu okuduktan sonra kitabı camdan fırlatmayı cidden düşündüm.
Böyle salak bi son olabilir mi ya diye anneme çıkıştığımı hatırlıyorum, zavallı kadın ne diyor bu çocuk demiştir heralde.
Bu V.C. Andrews'in eeeeen kötü yumruğu olabilir çünkü önceki yorumlarımda bahsettiğim gibi kendisi psikopat.
Hiçbir yazarın acıdan bu denli zevk alıp yazdığı her kitapta - okumadım ama biliyorum - inatla böyle şeyler anlatması bana mantıklı gelmiyor.
Tekerlekli sandalyeye mahkum olduğunu bildiğimden başından herhangi bir çatı katında ne geçtiğini merak etmeden duramıyorum.
Bu sorunlar bi yerden gelmeli.
Seri olarak bakarsak insanı deli eden, psikolojisiyle oynayan, geceleri uyutmayan garip bir şey diyebiliriz.
ESTOY DESTROZADA!! No había llorado tanto desde hacia algun tiempo. No puedo creer como todo a terminado así, de una manera tan rápida y devastadora, me a dejado el corazon destrozado...Después de cuatro libros, esta familia se ha hecho un hueco en mi corazón, más que nada he amado a los cuatro niños del ático y sus vidas desastrosas. Y nunca, nunca me olvidaré de el hermano mayor TE AMO CHRIS !
Ahh, the last book in the Dollanganger family series. Such a dark and scandalous family full of secrets, incest, murder, and characters struggling to move forward. Emotional and intense - V.C. Andrews definitely stumbled onto a literary gold mine.
Y si; uno puede pensar que esa familia está realmente maldita por todo lo que les pasa pero mi mente era incapaz de procesar tanto drama, en mi opinión, muy, pero que muy mal llevado.Personajes como Bart, que incluso me pareció interesante leer en la 3º parte por sus problemas mentales, pierde el sentido en este libro, repitiéndose una vez más la existencia de otro personaje que manipula a este.
