https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/775985.The_Black_Jacobins
Toussaint was a slave, not six years out of slavery, bearing alone the unaccustomed burden of war and government, dictating his thoughts in the crude words of a broken dialect, written and rewritten by his secretaries until their devotion and his will had hammered them into adequate shape.”This is history from below before historians like Hill and Hobsbawm popularized it.
It is clear that there was every intention by the French to reinstate slavery and James suggests that there is evidence of a plan to exterminate the whole non-white population (hundreds of thousands of people) and bring across new slaves from Africa because they would be less likely to rebel.
James makes the Haitian Revolution come alive.
Nor is James shy about exposing the violence committed by the former slaves against the white and mixed armies.
Perhaps the best aspect of this book is that it is an interactive history of the Haitian and French Revolutions.
After reading this book it becomes impossible to think of the French Revolution without considering that its unfolding and its ultimate stillbirth is the result of the French revolutionaries' inability to think of the Haitian slaves as actual human beings.
It is as much a book as event of history itself.
CLR James approaches this history through the two dimensions of race and class, superseding questions of race and identification (as fluid as they are), with economic analysis.
Mr. James combines this complicated dimensions of identity into a single convincing narrative.
Most convincing are the implications of the ideas of the French Revolution in colonial nations.
The book naturally focuses on the figure of Toussaint L'Ouverture.
Unfortunately, the book and human history have too many Dessalines, who would destroy instead of build, and not enough L'Ouvertures, with the courage and vision to create a better world.
MapPreface to the Vintage EditionPreface to the First Edition--The Black Jacobins: Toussaint L'Ouverture and the San Domingo RevolutionBibliographyAppendix: From Toussaint L'Ouverture to Fidel CastroIndex
A final quote on race and revolution:Political treachery is not a monopoly of the white race, and this abominable betrayal so soon after the insurrection shows that political leadership is a matter of programme, strategy and tactics, and not the colour of those who lead it, their oneness of origin with their people, nor the services they have rendered." [106] Of course, most of this book is about how Toussaint alone, ex-slave, genious, of inexhaustible physical stamina, and incarnation of the desire for freedom, could have led the struggle to end slavery.
The two were closely entwined, however the importance of the Haitian Revolution is often overlooked as it was a revolution led by black slaves against their colonial oppressors: the French.
It’s a great deal more complicated than that, however as the book closes an army of former slaves has defeated Napoleon’s army, the best in the world at that time, and won independence for Haiti.
‘The Black Jacobins’ was written in 1938 and includes an appendix written later (in the 1960s I think), which compares Fidel Castro with the extraordinary leader of the Haitian Revolution, Toussaint L’Ouverture.
It is also overshadowed by Haiti's underdevelopment, decades of US supported dictatorships, underdevelopment of Haiti by imperialism.James wrote this as part of a set of books that set out to show the depth of anti-colonial spirits, to decentre Eurocentric histories and to tell the stories of the agency and success of the suppressed; this remains one of the most important works in his enormous body of work, a tale of successful action by the most oppressed to slough off their chains and their oppressors, and to confront revolutionary France with the implications of its actions.
James pulls no punches when discussing the contradiction between the lofty ideals of the French Revolution and the bourgeoisie's unwillingness to let go of the tremendous wealth of slave-cultivated San Domingo, nor does he spare the European abolitionists of the time.
it's a book full of gut-wrenching horrors, as any honest account of colonialism must be.
it's also full of hope; it takes the side of the oppressed without equivocation, and reminds us that against impossible odds, against both the vast forces of reaction and the wavering, misguided or treacherous leaders of the people, victory is possible.
How was this book a million times better on the second read than I remembered it being on the first?!?
After the earthquake in Haiti, all books about Haiti in the Pittsburgh library system were checked out.
I was on the wait list for this book for about 6 months.
I was only able to get through about half of the book.
That being said, it was a lot more dry than I expected and had I not read another history on Haiti first, I may have been pretty lost.
I would recommend reading up a little on the French Revolution before tackling this book, because names and places can start to get muddled.
The weaknesses in the book come from self-defeating politics of discipline for the sake of discipline, and the heart-rending compromises that Toussaint L'Overture makes with people who see him and the republic he created as nothing more than slaves to be punished for their insubordination.The utter brutality and injustice of slave ownership, and the barbaric treatment of slaves is scandalous.
As the French revolution turned sour and the Jacobins were replaced by the Napoleonic forces of reaction, Toussaint and his slave army attempted to stay loyal to France.
But Napoleon had no use for a colony without slavery, and Toussaint's slave army was forced to negotiate secretly with the English and fight off the French again, while the Spanish eagerly looked for a chance to take over.
Not only is Toussaint one of the most interesting persona in history, C.L.R. James knows how to make of that a legend.
It is worth considering just how good James is, since I remain just slightly suspicious of some of the descriptions, which make of Toussaint a more than human character.
Generally, I don't find histories to be gripping, but Toussaint's fight is the best kind of fight; few compare in importance and complexity, and few have been so ignored.
His ideas may in some ways have helped us define freedom.
And the way in which he imagined something and then made it happen with such single-minded energy captures me and accuses me.

If you ever want to explore the sorrows that are the reality of today's Haiti, you should start with this book.
The book explores the seeds of revolution in Haiti, the attempts by soldier/statesman L'Ouverture to diplomatically secure freedom for enslaved Africans in Haiti, to final military victory secured by Dessaline.
It is a well written book about a country and people just written off by Nations of the Western Hemishphere and by France.
The seeds of the problems of modern-day were sown during this period and in many ways the people are still suffering.
A great view of the fight against imperialism and slavery.
Haiti is the first black republic and is often touted as having the only successful slave revolt in history.
Haiti is also the first country in the Western Hemisphere to totally abolish slavery.
The book showed the strength of Toussaint L'Ouverture and the imperialist racism of France under both the Monarchy and Napoleon.
It shows L'Ouverture's weaknesses so as not to just be a book of pure hero worship.
Like many Marxists books, I felt that the focus is on the class character of the revolt rather than the aspect of race, but other than that it was illuminating.
After reading Trotsky's recently published History of the Russian Revolution, he was drawn to anti-Stalinist Marxism and quickly emerged as a leading theoretician of various Trotskyist organizations, developing his own independent brand of Marxism after World War II based on the theory of state capitalism.To My Good Friends HARRY and ELIZABETH SPENCER of Nelson, LancashireOpening: The slavers scoured the coasts of Guinea.
As they devastated an area they moved westward and then south, decade after decade, past the Niger, down the Congo coast, past Loango and Angola, round the Cape of Good Hope, and, by 1789, even as far as Mozambique on the eastern side of Africa.
From the coast they organized expeditions far into the interior.
In the 1790s-1800s, the Haitian revolution took place, and San Domingo, one of the most brutal slave colonies in the West Indies turned into Haiti, an independent state led by a former slave.
Focusing on not only on Toussaint L'Ouverture, but on the material conditions that surrounded the only successful slave revolt in history, CLR James presents a very complete overview of the twenty years where history was made.
Finally, CLR James ends with a brief story of the West Indies, and how Negritude arose there and was later transported to Africa.

The history of a most significant revolution brought to light by C L R James. This was a revolution to make everyone free, not just a select few. One wonders at how different the world would be if the founders of Haiti had had been given an opportunity to establish themselves! This for is for me is one of the best histories coming from the Caribbean! A book which brings the Haitian revolution and the characters involved to life.
I became a huge fan of anything to do with Hatian history while I was a student of French studies at North Carolina Central University in Durham, North Carolina. As a result, I came across C. L. R. James. His writing is impeccable, his research meticulous. If you are interested in Hatian history, this is a must-read.http://www.saltygurl.com
v good
I'm going on a Caribbean cruise in two weeks and I'm a guilty white liberal, so here I am reviewing "The Black Jacobins," a milestone in post-colonial literature, a sensitive treatment of a complex man leading a totally improbable revolutionary movement, and the ultimate "fuck you" to white people.
James is passionately on the side of the "Black Jacobins," and he'd be the first to admit it (the book ends with an Appendix salutes Fidel Castro (it was written in the early 60's) and the promise of future Caribbean revolutionary movements).
This is a cool as hell book about one of the greatest mass movements in human history.
This is how to write history.
The prose, the research and James' analysis are breathtaking.
From this book springs forth the type of historian James was.
He was telling more than the history of the Haitian Revolution.
The revolution is but the background to his larger project of explaining his dialectics and politics through the lens of Toussaint, Napolean, Dessalines and the Haitian people.
The last chapter is James at his best.
James left us a great tool for analyzing our own struggles through this book.
Towards the colonial-era that the Third World was facing upon the initial publication, James expressed the violence of the colonized, "blow for blow."
certainly one of the most important books i’ve ever read. james is a genius and an amazingly eloquent, emotional writer who makes this seminal moment in anti-colonial revolutionary history feel alive and relevant in the 21st century. this book is a beacon, a warning, and a guide for all peoples seeking to overcome the depths of colonialism within themselves and their nations.
I felt I needed to do a some supplementary re-reading/watching Youtube videos of the French Revolution, but a really exciting and complex unpacking of the successful slave uprising in Haiti. Combined with James' sarcasm, this is one of my faves.
tragic colonialism
I struggled with all the French names (I struggle with anything that involves so many damn names). But extremely worth it.
Back in France, Robespierre’s reached his bourgeois limit and pulled back the Revolution, and “far more workingmen than autocrats perished in this phase of the Terror.” Toussaint lives and dies for France but “this devotion will in the end lead him to an untimely and cruel death.” Toussaint is taken captive by Bonaparte, because he does not tell his people the approaching French expedition is only there to restore slavery.
“Thus, king and priest launched on the world the American slave-trade and slavery.” And so, a priest (Reynal) at the beginning of the story inspires Toussaint to stop slavery, which it turns out was started in part by a different priest (Las Casas).
(Man needs an Angela Davis revision NOW!) (People who regularly read my reviews are probably getting sick of this, but would it really be SO HARD to just write history as if women actually existed?
You're writing about the first successful slave revolt in world history.
It's the FIRST SUCCESSFUL SLAVE REVOLT IN WORLD HISTORY.
And he is a little free with tossing out names.
This is one of the most bad ass events in world history.
He set out to describe the revolting slaves as people worthy of esteem and awe, and wow, was he successful.
Good book. It's the about the Haitian Revolution. But it's about much more than revolt & paints a vivid picture. It takes into account the historical conditions, the experiences of the people in the colony, the roles they played before, during & after, which includes the black people that were slaves, the white people, mulattoes, the latter two which were both slave masters, as well as mulatto slaves, & also it takes into account the politics that drove everything before, during &amp
It takes into account the historical conditions, the experiences of the people in the colony, the roles they played before, during & after, which includes the black people that were slaves, the white people, mulattoes, the latter two which were both slave masters, as well as mulatto slaves, & also it takes into account the politics that drove everything before, during & after.A few of the early leaders of various revolts are mentioned but Tousaint is given the bulk of the attention as he had to most to do with everything but the final blow that gave Haiti their independence.
It's an excellent book & definitely makes you appreciate what this revolution meant for its own time & black people going forward.
