https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10090.Mountain_of_Black_Glass
I did feel that although I really love the different worlds within Otherland and seeing our team exploring them, this one actually didn't give us that many answers in terms of the overall plot direction until right at the end.
I do think some of it could possibly have been cut to make it more exciting, but otherwise this is just more of the same super world from Williams.This book particularly made me enjoy the characters of Orlando, Fredricks and Martine.
Executive Summary: Things are really picking up in the 3rd of this 4 volume doorstopper.Audio book: Another excellent job by George Newbern. With books as long as these, it's important to have a good narrator, and thankfully they've made a good choice. Clear, good volume, good inflections and a variety of voices making the audio a good choice. Full Review Both the previous two books in this series suffer from slower parts, and this one was no different. However, I found this one to have the fewe
With books as long as these, it's important to have a good narrator, and thankfully they've made a good choice.
However, I found this one to have the fewest number of slow parts yet.We finally start to get answers to many of the questions I've had since the first volume.
Paul's plotline provides some of the best reveals of the series thus far, but I found myself a bit less interested in him as I was in the previous two books.In this novel we start to finally get some convergence of several plotlines that had previously felt only loosely related to one another.
I don't know what it is about this series, but the second and third books have really been just travelling, travelling, travelling, with no real advancement of the plot. The first book was spectacular but now it seems that Williams is content with showing the reader how cool each simulated world is rather than injecting any kind of mystery, intrigue, or hey - an actual story. Really disappointing as Tad Williams is one of my favorite fantasy authors. At this point I'm not even sure that I want to read the final volume.
This one was a pretty good installment of the Otherland series. There were no more numerous random simulations that plagued the second book so much and the plot seem to strengthen somewhat. It was a bit long winded in the last 100 pages or so but still enjoyable. Though it probably brought it down from 5 to 4 stars for me. This was a thoroughly entertaining read. I'm looking forward to the next one.
Of course, he makes things worse, adding to the danger when the organization who murdered the woman who was Rennie's friend and Jeremiah's employer takes note of and begins to follow him.
And the forces put in play to keep Rennie and her friends from investigating the Otherland network and Grail Brotherhood and closing in on her physical location.
The rich simworlds include both the familiar and the legendary, and those with a familiarity with the Iliad will find they cannot help to wonder just how closely the tragic tale will affect those caught up in its story.I love this third installment in Tad Williams' Otherland series and would highly recommend it to people who enjoy epic sci-fi novels and who don't mind a story that takes its time.
I have no problem with multivolume doorstop epics; however Williams doesn't know where he's going and it shows. Characters stumble aimlessly through worlds, Williams kills off the metaphysical side of the story, and substitutes imagery for substance.
Ahhhhhh....the deep sigh that comes from plugging away at a series because you hope it will pay off. The pages start to weigh several pounds each and the effort required to keep turning them becomes a force of will.
:DAs in the previous book the characterisation is really great with all the characters feeling very different throughout!:D As the story progresses straight after the previous book we get to see some of the harder edges that we have seen in the previous books start to get knocked off our characters and the 'team' really starting to work together as they go through even more extremes than they have before which leads all of the disparate groups to eventually meet up at a Troy simulation which to their horror is right in the middle of the closing battles which put our characters in even more danger some of the on opposite sides which further complicates things!
Orlando dying sucks, because he was one of the more interesting characters in the story, and his relationship with Fredericks was getting pretty interesting, especially since we were staring to see things more from her perspective—I hope that continues.
There’s a lot of story left to tell, and with 1000 pages, I think that Williams has a good shot of making this overlong cyberpunk story worth the time I’ve spent reading it, that is to say, not reading other things.
That puts a lot of pressure on the fourth book, but from what I understand about Williams, he’s got a habit of wrapping his stories up well.
Sellers, the old man who remains quite a mystery but seems to be some of the force that brings the heroes together, also has a key storyline, though it took quite a different turn from what I expected going into the story.An adventure from proverbial cover to cover (since I listened to the audiobook), a lot of time in this book was spent with the characters all trying to reach the Otherland's version of Troy.
Die Geschichte findet bis auf eine Ausnahme fast nur noch im alten Ägypten und in der Odyssee des Homer statt.
Zweitens bekommt die erneut zersplitterte Geschichte durch die getrennten Erzählstränge & Gruppen durch die schnellen und vielen Szenewechsel noch immer nicht mehr Struktur und wird, obwohl man schon alle kennt, sehr unübersichtlich.Erst auf Seite 725 fand ich die erste wirklich geniale Idee, die daraus resultiert, dass die jungen Protagonisten fast gar nichts mehr lesen und dadurch völlig unwissend durch die Illias tappen, ohne zu ahnen, was ihnen durch die Verkörperung einer bestimmten Figur bevorsteht.
Im antiken Troja werden die getrennten Gruppen und Erzählstränge auch wieder zusammengeführt, der Plot kommt dadurch so richtig in Schwung und erhält Struktur.
Rather than just throwing as much of his imagination at us as he can, in this book Mr. Williams actually only presents a few worlds, and time is left for some really decent character development and for plot formation.
It was really refreshing to have "story" once again become part of the, well, story...Three minor notations:*dispersed character and plot elements begin to coalesce into a whole;*editing skills (at least in the first half of the book) were once again an issue.
Four or five time where this batch cut&paste occurred there was an overlap of two to three words - up to an overlap of half a sentence.
1,800 pages into William's 4,000 page sci-fi virtual reality epic, I had to make a choice - Did nearly two-thousand pages of invested time mean I should finish the series, or did the fact that I was growing bored and I could devote 2,200 pages of my life to more worthwhile literature mean I should just cut my losses.
Cutting 50% of this series would have made a gripping sci-fi series; as it was, it was an excercise in self-indulged writing.
I hope Williams had the same payment plan as Dickens.
This is my favorite of the Otherland volumes so far. There's less hesitance in the story telling, and now that all the characters have been (finally) introduced and set in motion, this volume moves forward at a much better pace than the last two. Also, there was an added sense of connection to this piece of the story for me because of so many references I recognize from Homer's classics.
Whew! Williams had worn me down with so many words. # 3 moves faster and gives more character info, which is much needed if you've gotten this far.
Wer High Fantasy mag, wird von dieser Reihe sicherlich ebenso begeistert sein wie ich. Im Grunde genommen ist diese Reihe auch genreübergreifend. Sie hat Sci-Fi-Elemente, Märchen-Anteile, aber auch anspruchsvolle Epen wie der Fall Trojas, und die Protagonisten müssen ständig Entscheidungen treffen, sind peprmanent in Gefahr getötet zu werden und entscheiden sich, als sie die Gelegenheit erhalten, aus dem Ganzen aussteigen zu können, dennoch dagegen, wollen am großen Ziel festhalten, ihre Freunde nicht im Stich lassen. Ein wunderbares Buch und mir die volle Punktzahl wert!http://sunsys-blog.blogspot.de/2017/0...
The premise, in which children become comatose after exploring a dangerous virtual reality and the protagonist Rene Sulaweyo starts a quest to find the cause, allows Williams to throw his characters in any environment, any scene, any situation that his imagination can conjure up.
Even when Tad Williams' plot seems to be growing out of control, as many serial fantasies seem to do, he manages to rein it back in.I'm excited to hear that Otherland will be made into a game (a "Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game" to be precise).
DNF at 62%. The thought of continuing this another eight hours makes me groan. It's as tedious as my current job with nothing going for it. I love his writing style, don't get me wrong. But this book meanders. It manages to say a lot without saying anything at all and the plot crawls forward. I just...maybe I'll come back to this. We'll see. But for now, DNF.
and yet I can't honestly say it should have taken this long.
Everything is epic, for sure, but it cooled my enthusiasm that diving into new worlds would again cause a slowdown in the narrative momentum, with new information or revelations sprinkled here and there too far and few between (or vague in meaning, frustrating to reader and character alike) to be exciting.
I'm not one to give up easily, though, and am eager to finish the series once and for all.
This series is recommended for those with the stamina to make it through long, detailed, yet sometimes frustrating storytelling.
Tad Williams has a gift for the written word. Or, more accurately, a gift for about five qudrazillion of them because he writes in The. Most. Dense. Fucking. Prose. Ever. (And uses far too few clever literary devices such as the preceding one.) Which is a shame, really, because the story is pretty captivating and has proven to be somewhat prescient. But god to the damn, yo, my cat Nelly has a better chance of penning the next great Broadway musical than the average reader has of slogging through this entire series. And Nelly writes exclusively sitcoms.
Das Epos geht weiter, und die Handlungsstränge der verschiedenen Gruppen greifen immer mehr ineinander. Allmählich deuten sich auch erste Hinweise auf die Hintergründe an, und gegen Ende gibt es den ersten Knalleffekt. Es, bleibt spannend, und man fragt sich, wie sich die Kontrahenten wohl am Ende schlagen werden. Die wirklich große Frage bleibt jetzt, ob Williams es schafft, das Mammutwerk mit einem vernünftigen Ende zu krönen.
There needs to be an "abandoned" option in Goodreads.Around the middle of book 2 I started losing interest in this series, but i finished book 2. I started book 3 hoping to get reinvigorated but it just never happened. I learned a long time ago there are too many great books to slug through a story I'm not engaged in.
Tad Williams creates some bizzare words, both beatuful and horrifying, and I took particular joy in exploring each new setting that the characters came upon. This series is a testiment to the limitless possibilities that lie within the human imagination!
The Otherland saga continues. Gets a little slow towards the last quarter of the book. At this point, I've invested in three 700+ page books so I'm going to read the last book of the series either way. I can't wait to see how this all resolves itself.
One of the best sci-fi series I've ever read. Just a warning to interested readers - there are several books of over 1000 pages, and once you start you won't be able to put them down. Make sure you have a serious block of time because these books are addictive.
My favorite of the series so far. Ratchets up the tension, answers some longstanding questions, presents new ones. One more to go, but I'm going to take a break and read a few other books first so I can come back to the series with a fresh mind.
Very long but for some reason I couldn't put it down. Amazing that a fantasy author could put out science fiction of this caliber.
You really start figuring out where all the different characters that are in this book fit into the scheme of things. Another large on but still a very easy read.
Love this series. If u like sci fi fantasy give it a whirl. Long but worth it.
I really enjoyed these books, I got lost in the otherworld and found the descriptive narrative and details amazing.
