https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311134.Why_Shoot_a_Butler_
I really wasn't expecting this book to be such a great murder mystery novel.
It might not have the most unique characters around, but it's very entertaining, and it manages to evoke an atmosphere of suspense even though I could sort of figure who the murderer was towards the ending.This book is very much one that would appeal to readers who enjoy that nostalgic type of mystery novel that drags them away to an earlier romanticized era.
There's very little to know about the murdered butler himself, the side characters or even the perpetrator for that matter.
Frank & Shirley from this effort, become Worth & Judith in GH's first Regency, Regency Buck.
I always find this interesting when GH does this -in my opinion a sign she was unhappy with the first effort.
So many unsatisfactory brothers in Heyer's books.
A subtle sign that she was unhappy with the financial burden her own brothers were to her perhaps?Minor irritations - another grey eyed hero, another GH detective story where a female character has a bull terrier.What really bugged me.
(view spoiler)[ Bizarre character motivation, in one case career threatening.
I read on because I wanted to get the ongoing story which can be equally as entertaining as the mystery element when it comes to this author.Frank Amberley is the hero.
I get it- she's got troubles and can't see her way clear, but she pulls a stupid stubborn thing when she always refuses help and unnecessarily puts herself in danger.
At first, she was interesting the way the author put her at the murder scene, but I got impatient after that because...all that I just said.The whole story was an exercise in patience because I felt it had the bones of a better story than it was.
This is only my second book by Heyer and my first mystery of hers. I honestly can't wait to read more by her and, hopefully, this year I will. I enjoyed this. For the most part, it wasn't so much the mystery that I liked but, rather, the characters. I loved Frank Amberley. He was somewhat of an ass but he appealed to me. As did his family: his aunt, uncle, and cousin--their interactions with each other were very amusing. I found numerous moments to be funny. Especially between Amberley and Shirley!
I don't like being sick, but I do like having an entire day to sit in an easy chair with a heating pad and one of those ridiculous blankets-with-sleeves and a 1930s English murder mystery. As far as I can remember, this is the first Georgette Heyer I've read, but I want to read more of her books. Lots of twists and turns, plus expressions that are new to me, such as "Not strictly the clean potato, eh?" I'm still trying to figure that one out.
Frank heads off to the police station to report the murder but leaves the young woman out of it.
Frank feels that the murder is only a small piece of the puzzles and tries to stay one step ahead of the police.
I don't know how many towns have such bumbling police forces but Georgette Heyer takes the cake in creating goofy characters.
This is Georgette Heyer's best mystery I have read so far.(view spoiler)[Right away I knew Shirley and her brother were the heirs.
I guessed Basil did it for the same reasons Frank suspected.
I think that of all Heyer's mysteries, this one is my favorite.
I guess it could be classified as a "cozy" since the main 'detective' isn't a professional (he's a barrister, but this case isn't related to his work in any way) but it also has aspects of romantic suspense.
One aspect of not being a police procedural that leapt out at me during this latest reread is it allowed Heyer to give free rein to her genius for repartee.
I think that the mystery is good too, but to be honest, it is hard for me to judge at this point.
Frank Amberley is on his way to dinner at his Uncle and Aunt's estate, when he comes across a young woman, Shirley Brown, standing in the road next to a car with a dead man in the driver's seat.Mr. Amberley is asked by the local police force to lend a hand as he was instrumental in closing a prior case.
The police sergeant was such a good natured buffoon, you couldn't help like him (and sympathize when he was so often the target of Frank's "attention").
Frank Amberley was laugh out loud funny with his very (did I mention VERY?) dry, sarcastic humor.
The dim low class police officers beg Frank to help them solve the case, and he does--while not telling them a single clue that he finds, or informing him of any of his suspicions.
For example, (view spoiler)[Frank tells the police to follow Shirley's brother, implying that Mark might get drunk and try to attack the butler again.
It was obvious from the start that (view spoiler)[Shirley and Mark were the long lost heirs seeking a secret will or some such (hide spoiler)], and there isn't much in the way of clues, just various characters surprising each other at secret meetings.
Shirley claims she had nothing to do with the mysterious man's death.
But why then is Shirley carrying a revolver in her coat pocket?As the case heats up, author Georgette Heyer takes the reader on a full-out detective adventure that is both mystifying as well as fun (well, as fun as murder can be).
Although Heyer is much more well known for her Regency and Georgian historical romances (I've read a few of them), I'm really liking her mysteries much more, and look forward to reading the next one very soon.
The second of Georgette Heyer's detective novels, this one starts with a barrister coming across a car with a murdered man and a young woman standing by. He reports the death but does not mention the girl, as he then proceeds to investigate .....Well-written, good plot and cast of characters. Exciting, and with a touch of romance. A good light read.
For the fan of Heyer who reads this book because they are entranced with her Regency Romances it will probably be a let down.
It is not a badly written book and while the plot is cliched it is not patently ridiculous as is the case with some books written contemporaneously, although it does lack the lightness and wit that readers of the Regency Romances came to expect from the author.
For the fan of Heyer’s detective stories this, her second murder mystery, shows the author still experimenting with a format that will let her bring the strengths of her Regencys to a different and more modern genre.
Amberley is your very typical Heyer Hero, which is to say, caustic and perfectly dressed.
He was like any of her Regency heroes, just replaced in a 'modern' setting.
It was out of nowhere, of course, but it added to the plot!Not a 5 star mystery...things were occasionally either entirely too convenient (view spoiler)[HUGE library and Sir Humphrey wants the one book the will is in?!
(hide spoiler)] or too obvious (view spoiler)[ No shocker about the butler being Amberley's man.
(hide spoiler)]The characters were fun, though, and the whole story a delightful dalliance into detection.
Full of plot holes, rewards dangerous misogyny and general assholery, characters smile with their eyebrows. I'd give this one a miss, if I were you. Go and read a good Christie.(Incidentally, I have been and will be off the radar for a bit as house moving is in progress and new wifi has yet to be connected. Also I'm drowning in cardboard boxes. See you all in a few more days.)
I had read a fair amount of Georgette Heyer in my youth and recalled liking her, so I started the book with some hope.
Apparently my tastes have changed in the intervening years, however, because I just couldn't like her main character in this book at all.
I also get annoyed at mysteries that spend the last chapter telling you everything that happened in the rest of the story that the author had concealed from you.
Much of the solving of this mystery happened off-screen, so to speak, so there was little hope of the reader solving it him/herself.
While Frank Amberley (the rudest man in London) makes disparaging remarks and not-so-subtle jibes at the expense of almost everyone (mostly the local constabulary), many of my favorite moments come from his aunt, Lady Matthews.
She is nowhere near as lost as she sounds, yet speaks almost exclusively in short scattered sentences and non sequiturs.Sir Humphrey, Frank's uncle, is voicing his displeasure at the way Frank's investigation is interfering with his daily routine:"Damn it, Frank, next time you come and stay in my house------" "But I'm enjoying it all so much," interposed [Lady Matthews:], emerging from her correspondence.
Fun read if you're a fan of Golden Age British mysteries - although I enjoy Heyer's Regency romances even more!
I thought so too, but for some reason it took me a while to get through this book; there were flashes of Heyer's bone-dry British humor and a couple of interesting characters providing comic relief (Sgt. Gubbins and Lady Matthews), but I guess I'm a spoiled Heyer fan and expect more likeable, witty and sympathetic characters.
Ah well, as I've said before in my reviews of Heyer's books, her middling efforts at mystery and romance are better than most modern writers in those genres writing today, which is why I buy her books whenever I can find them to enjoy over and over again!
It is an ok English murder mystery story but, unlike Christie’s novel, for example, this book did not withstand the test of time particularly well.This type of format, over the years, has become formulaic, predictable and a tad repetitive and only genuinely well written novels of this genre are worth a read.
Personally, I would not bother with this one!The plot gets unnecessarily complicated at the end making the story, until then barely acceptable, even less enjoyable.
At the end, it left me underwhelmed.
A mere 'two stars' is what this books deserves.
A good mystery, copyright 1936.This is my third Heyer read, and the writing is as witty as the others. Barrister Frank Amberley discovers a young woman at night beside a car on a deserted road. The driver is dead.On his way to a dinner party, Amberley decides to stick around and investigate. His verbal gymnastics are a delight to read, whether he's creatively insulting an unsuspecting victim, digging for clues, or just being himself.
3 1/2 stars I think the plotline got unnecessarily complicated. I had to read the final chapter twice to take it all in. It seemed like a lot of stuff thrown at me all at once. Of course, the fact that it was 2 am MAY have had something to do with it! :)While I always enjoy Georgette Heyer's writing, I must confess that I like her Regency novels more than her detective / mystery books.
Sir Humphrey, who was seated in the library, answered it and said a little hastily that Mr Amberley was not in, and he didn’t know where he could be found.
Lady Matthews, who had entered the room, wanted to know who was trying to get hold of Frank.
‘Most odd message!’ ‘Well, dear?’ ‘I’m to tell Frank that he’s gone up to London and won’t be in till late.
Said Fountain was particularly anxious that Frank should know he’d gone to London and would be at his club all the afternoon.’ Lady Matthews shut the door.
Lady Matthews refused to unburden her mind either to her or to Sir Humphrey.
Simply delightful. I'm a big Heyer fan but have somehow never managed to read any of her mystery novels. This was such a fun read, full of classic witty dialogue, an intriguing mystery (in the vein of Agatha Christie), sassy ladies (Lady Matthews in particular), and a leading man, who at times, seemed to have been plucked right out a Dashiell Hammett or Raymond Chandler novel. I'll definitely be reading more Heyer mysteries in the near future.Reading Copy Provided by Raincoast Books
I really love the cover of this book. It is an old fashioned English country house mystery. There were some term either old fashioned or British that I didn't understand and the mystery was quite complicated to me. I had trouble following it even in the recap near the end. The dialogue was well written and I enjoyed the book.
Frank Amberley is on his way to visit his Aunt,Uncle,and Cousin when he stumbles upon a murder and a girl at the scene of the crime.She swears she didn't shoot the man.
But who would want to shoot a butler?Frank Amberley is a lawyer and also is very arrogant but I still find his character like able.
Another character I really loved was Frank's school friend Corkran.
I feel so bad for Joan(the girl who's butler was murdered)having to live with her stepbrother Basil who has a slimy quality to him.
I didn't like him at all.I loved that Heyer quoted Jane Austen.
A British mystery, in the tradition of Agatha Christie, written by Georgette Heyer, the renowned author of Regency romances.
This is a traditional mystery, set in an English manor house.
The story begins with a man driving on a backroad on his way to visit his uncle's country manor home in the English countryside.
When he looks closer at the car, realizes a dead man is behind the wheel.
one of the murders involves the dead man behind the wheel of the car.
The butler is the corpse behind the wheel.

Our hero, Frank Amberly is intelligent and mysterious.
He never lets anyone in on his thought process.
Unfortunately for the reader, Amberly doesn't let them in on it either.
It's a fairly boilerplate whodunnit, hurt by the fact that there's really no way the reader has a chance to solve it for themselves.
All the relevant facts are kept from you until the very end.
However, this is a Heyer book, so the characters are fantastically charming, and the dialogue just crackles.
I'll definitely try more Heyer mysteries in the future, but probably not for the actual mystery portion of it.
Why Shoot a Butler is a very entertaining book.
It kept me company for a week on the train as I rode to work.
He kind of reminds me of Dr. House, so rude you can't help but like him.
The mystery itself is OK.
It keeps you reading, leaving clues along the way that are tied together and summed up at the end.
The amateur sleuth keeps all his cards hidden and reveals them at the very end.
I give the book 3 stars because I liked the mystery, the characters and the solution were good.
This was the first Georgette Heyer mystery I'd read and it was a joy. English manor mysteries are always appealing and her wry, witty writing was an unexpected treat. The book starts with Frank Amberley finding a car with a corpse in it, and a young lady standing near it, on his way to his aunt and uncle's house one night. A fancy dress ball, more murders, and a wild ride combine to make a lovely way to spend an afternoon. I highly recommend this book for anyone who enjoys tradtional English mysteries.
If "the butler did it" is the rule of thumb, then what happens when the butler is the victim? And what happens when the dashing amateur detective (upon whom the local police depend for solving their difficult cases) is keeping vital evidence to himself? And why won't the lovely young woman discovered at the scene of the crime trust the dashing amateur detective?Well, if we knew all that, there wouldn't be any reason to read the book!April 28, 2018 I don't know who wrote the above review but it looks good to me! :)
