https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8073.Cloudy_With_a_Chance_of_Meatballs
In case you're wondering, I'm doing everything I can so I don't go back to the Crooked Kingdom. :DAgain, I didn't know this is a book. I've seen both animated movies and I liked them. This is a slightly different story, but it's beautiful nonetheless.We have a very nice grandpa telling his two nephews the story of the city of Chewandswallow, a city where people don't buy food at the store. The food just comes down from the sky instead of rain or snow.
“Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs” is a cult classic children’s book by Judi Barrett along with illustrations by Ron Barrett and it is about a magical town called Chewandswallow (chew and swallow, get it?) where food just falls from the sky and provides people with everything they need.
I also love the illustrations of the different kinds of food that falls from the sky, especially of the images of a dozen hamburgers falling from a storm cloud as it looked quite unusual.All in all, “Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs” is a truly brilliant book for children who are food lovers and just loves book about pure imagination!
Still, I gave the book a chance and it was amazing.
The idea is so fresh and new and unusual and strange.
The story is told as a bed time tale of a long time ago in a land far away.
In this land, food falls from the sky.
Being drenched in butter or soda so horrible.Still the art was amazing and the story inspired my imagination.
Anything is possible in the context of a story.
I love when a new idea lights me up.The kids liked this story from 1978 too.
They thought hamburgers falling from the sky was amazing.
Great story.
I wonder though if I would have seen the presented dystopic elements all that clearly in Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs if I had read this story as a child (probably not).
However, even as a child I loved stories like The Land of Cockaigne, where, as mentioned above, food grew on trees, the walls of the houses were made of gingerbread and the rivers flowed with wine and ready-to-eat seafood.
Really, I think my love for this book stemmed from the fact that I was a deprived child.
Well, I suppose I was never deprived of health food like oatmeal and tofu, but I only got white bread with sweet (or sugary rather) peanut butter @ friends houses.
I'm pretty certain I was only friends with some kids for the access to junk food that visits to the their homes allowed me.
Yes, while some kids were dreaming of being astronauts and ballerinas I was dreaming of stockpiling junk food under my bed.
The movie adaptation is wonderful and so is this book. I loved the illustrations!Although the plot is very plain and childlike (that's why it is a children's book) yet I loved it.I wish there were a place like Chewandswallow. :P
He’s a vegetarian.” This book was published in 1978, and I became a vegetarian (most of the time-it took me a while to make the transition fully) in early 1977.The story is funny and creative and entertaining.The illustrations are wonderful!
I love how each picture, the black & white and the color ones, seem to be created using tiny lines.
So far, this picture books group’s themes and books have all been wonderful!Now, I’m eager to read the sequel: Pickles To Pittsburgh: A Sequel To Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs.The story is fun and the illustrations are special.
I know I read this as a kid but for some reason it didn't leave me with a big "lasting impression" or any sort of feeling I could really latch onto when I thought about the book as an adult.
The story is so much fun, so imaginative and hilarious (and a tad scary at times!) and it's the best sort of tall-tale, causing our minds to boggle even as we realize maybe some of it could have shadows of truth in the real world.
I wasn't sure that I'd enjoy the illustrations at first--the kids and mom at the breakfast table looked a tad odd to me--but I ended up falling in love with them!
As one of my favorite books when I was a little girl~ I revisit this book every few years to see if it still holds up to what I remembered & loved.
And It is still in my top 5 Favorite books of all time!
Even after all these years of art enhancements & the digital art age~I still think this extremely detail-oriented cross hatch style of illustration is gorgeous and not seen much of anymore in art, much less in children's books.
I also think it teaches the subtle lesson of "too much of a good thing"
Mother nature cooks up a storm, literally, in this madcap story with plenty of silliness to go around.Ages 4-10The town of Chewandswallow has some wild weather, bringing meals like burgers, spaghetti, mashed potatoes, and of course meatballs three times a day.
The only bad part about living in ChewandSwallow is that the people don't get their choice of what they'd like to fall from the sky: it may snow mashed potatoes, or rain juice or soup, or there might even be a storm of hamburgers that takes them by surprise.
My daughter came home all excited about reading this book in school today. My son then chimed in and I soon had two children dancing around my kitchen telling me all about this book and laughing hysterically. I supposed I should read it myself before I recommend it, but my children definately gave it "two thumbs up"!
I loved this book. The artwork is wonderful and the way the text is so dry and matter-of-fact is so funny. I can't wait to see the film.
I read it again tonight and realized it is now 32 years old.
I think most little boys and girls love stories in the larger-than-life category and of course it helps that it has to do with food.
Who doesn't love food?
I get lost in the illustrations everytime I read the book.
I think it was a great idea to start and end the book in black and white and to make grandpa's story section color.
It adds extra charm to the book.
I didn't know this husband and wife team also did two other books besides the sequel Pickles To Pittsburghuntil tonight.
We read to our children often when they were little, 20 some years ago.
We picked this one up by chance, and I have to say, from the moment we first opened the pages it has stuck with not just me, but them as well.
What a fabulously creative book, one that opened little imaginations wide.
Wonderful prose, and illustrations that took that imagination for a ride.
We later watched the movie together as this was *the* favorite book in our house.
Do yourself and your children a favor and read this original book, rather than the movie book, it does not compare.
This is my favorite picture book. Even as a teenager, I'd hunt his book up from time to time to make sure I'd memorized all the lines correctly.This story reads exactly like all stories told by your grandfather are supposed to. The ones where, as a kid, you keep saying 'really!', then try to verify everything via grandma, who then yells at grandpa for filling your head with nonsense.
Very cute story with a different story inside. I can see why the kids like it. It is yummy!
You know you're in a wealthy society when kids read about the sky raining food. Aside from this obnoxious premise, a highly creative, surprising story. Kudos to Barrett for including composting.
I read "Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs" by Judi Barrett.
The story is narrated by grandpa to his grandkids.
Life in Chewandswallow is good until the weather takes a turn for the worst.
It finally gets so bad the the townspeople have to make boats out of stale bread and leave the island for good.
throughout the book he tells his grandkids stories and makes them pancakes.
He is kind, gentle, and a very good storyteller.The story takes place in the town of Chewandswallow.
There is no direct time period, but it seems relative to current time.Overall I would give "Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs" five out of five stars.
I really don't know where the time as gone!The book has a framing story that begins with a mishap during breakfast.
The grandfather is inspired and tells the children about a place called Chewandswallow where the weather brings food three times a day.
Without that framing story I would have found the book annoying.Although the illustration style of the book is very clearly a product of the late 1970s, the film manages to recreate many of the iconic scenes (though with different circumstances behind them).
I liked seeing that connection between book and film even though they are otherwise so very different.
A great story - tells not only a fascinating tall tale about the town of Chewandswallow, but also talks about the closeness of extended family. Who doesn't love a story about Grandpa's tall tales? Our oldest loves this tale and we've read it a couple of times. This story was selected as one of the books for the June 2010 - Culinary Delights reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
My son (10 years old) was so excited when I brought this book home from the library to read and discuss with an online group.
"But it's nothing like the movie." And even though he's proud to be a tween and considers himself practically grown up, he grabbed the book out of my hands to read it again.It is an excellent story, very imaginative.
I loved the setting - a grandfather telling his grandchildren a tall tale that kept their imaginations going the next day.
It brought back pleasant memories of stories that my own grandfather told me.
Imagine if you lived in a town that only rained food and never rained rain!
This story takes weather to a whole new level as readers giggle their way through the climate of one particular town.
All is dandy until the townspeople starts to notice weird arrangements of foods storming in.
The best part of the book, in my opinion, is looking at the imaginative illustrations.
Not only to they make me laugh out loud, but they get me thinking about what this would really look and feel like to live in such a strange town.
I highly recommend this book to anyone of any age.
A very imaginative story! If I wanted food to fall from the sky, what would it be? That would be a nice exercise for kids who read the book. The sequel, Pickles to Pittsburgh, wasn't nearly as good. This one, though, is a winner.
This book always made me a bit queasy.
3.5 🌟 I remember that there was a movie by the same name & apparently it's based on this book. It's about a bedtime story told by a grandfather to his two grandchildren inspired by an event that happened during breakfast that morning. The illustration is really pretty & a story about food will always make you hungry so be prepared!
My three-year-old couldn't quite keep up with the narrative of this adorable and imaginative children's book, but it's definitely one of my personal favorites. I might just use it to teach literary analysis with my 9th grade students!
One day then the storms for the three meals had gotten too strong that the food was piling up and leaving people stranded.
It ended up being a regular town where the storms were rain and you had to buy your own food.In this story there is no main character because the author talks about the people of the town as a whole instead of an individual.
The other characters in the book are the children being told the bedtime story by their grandpa and the grandpa himself.
That night Grandpa decided to tell a story that related to the pancake on Henry’s head.
Which none of them even had to do because they had it given to them everyday.The author is Henry’s sister, and she is telling the story.
Grandpa tells the story of a town called Chewandswallow where there is not a lot of people in the town.
The weather changes every day with new food for the people of the town to eat because they have no food that they can buy.
I would recommend this book to people who need to get a new perspective on life.
Later on in that day the grandpa decided to tell his grandchildren a bedtime story about a place that was called Chewandswallow and how it was different from any other town ever.
The difference about this town was its weather as it was no typical rain and snow, but the weather would be food.
The food had been destroying buildings and the towns causing for everyone to leave before it gets to dangerous.
In my opinion I think that this is a great story especially for children because of the imagination in this book.
This childhood book is about a grandpa who tells his two grandchildren a bed time story.
When the book first starts it’s the eldest of the two grand children telling about how her grandpa told the story about Chewandswallow.
Then the grandpa is next in line to be the main character because he is the one telling the story.
In the beginning of the book it showed a grandpa telling stories to his grandchildren.
I didn't have a grandpa that did that but I had my mom and she told the story in a different way each time.
