https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223415.They_Came_Before_Columbus
I remember my 7th grade history teacher use to talk about Christopher Columbus, and this particular day in class I asked him “ How could he have discovered something when people were watching him from the shore.” Ivan Van Sertima is a Guyanese historian, linguist and anthropologist whose impeccable research clearly demonstrates that great African mariners visited the Americas and had major influences.
Any reader who has given this work a negative review, is due to the fact they do not know history and anthropology, and their foundation has been based off of some of the pioneers and scholars who have been culturally biased against Black people and Ancient Black civilizations.
Behind the dramatizations, Van Sertima asserts two different points: 1) that Africans travelled by sea from Egypt to America about 3000 years ago, thus sparking the first American civilization, the Olmec; and 2) that Afrikans from the Empire of Mali had extensive trading relations with the American peoples of the Caribbean from the time of Mansa Abubakari, in the early 14th century.
Sertima however fails to provide any conclusive proof of the extensive trading - it's all circumstantial.The deepest flaws however, lie with the first point.
From the epidemiological viewpoint, any pre-columbian contact would have to have been extremely marginal, not affecting the American continents as extensively as Sertima asserts.
Forgive me for taking forever to read this book!
This book was incredible and to sum it up in a nutshell from Sertima's own words, "The African presence in America before Columbus is of importance not only to African and American history but to the history of world civilizations.
It provides further evidence that all great civilizations and races are heavily indebted to one another and that no race has a monopoly on enterprise and inventive genius." The variety of proof Sertima gives of the African presence is insightful and convincing and I'm inspired to read much more of historical antiquity because of it.
I read this book nearly 18 years ago in college and never doubted it bc i always believe there were an african present here before columbus. I also would recommend people read diaries from columbus and other early settlers. U can really learn history far from what the textbooks teach one in school. Im grateful to my history teacher who taught me how to find these first person resources bc i have learned alot about why blacks were enslaved and who idea it was to enslave my ancestors
Very interesting alternative interpretation of well known data about pre-columbian america. After doing some more research inspired by reading this book I've learned that the Moors did indeed have very advanced navigational technology way ahead of the Europeans. So it would not be surprising in the least if they were here before Europeans.
This is another informative book that tells more truth about the Ancient Africans. These Africans travelled to the Americas, namely central America and Mexico. They didn't have steam ships; they had man power and Atlantic trade winds. Africans were doing it before the white man came and told the world that we didn't do anything. DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE!
Seeing how another Columbus Day has come and gone, it's important to add this book to my read shelf. If you've never read anything by Ivan Van Sertima, this book is an excellent must-read.
Outstanding - well documented tracings of voyages, immigrations and trading secrets which go far toward solving mysteries in the Old and New World - of cultural similarities which had heretofore seemed impossible to reconcile with Euro-centric versions of history.
Centuries before Columbus or even Eric the Red, commerce and exploration between Africa and the Americas blossomed, and an entire African kingdom seems to have immigrated to South America.
It was exciting to read Van Sertma's discussion the plotting and avarice by Columbus against his Queen, and soul-crushing to see the consequence of his 'conquest' and enslavement of the native populations which fell under his sword.
I highly recommend this book.
I find it incredibly disrespectful that we're not even taken into consideration as if the "Nubians" were the only reason we develop a high and complex civilization like our mother culture the Olmecs.
Everyone is so busy trying to defend Van Sertimas seafaring possibilities that it has blinded your logic on the obvious.
Why didn't they trade with Africans, and "give them the civilization" Van Sertima claims?
All of this evidence is absent because Van Sertima is basically a Charlatan using his creative writing degree to USE US for him money making scheme, and trick African descent people into believe the nonsense of Nubians coming to give us civilization???
At the time this book was first published in 1976, unfortunately I read Erich Von Daniken's 'Chariots of the Gods' as a result it has taken me forty years to venture back into this subject.Thankfully I came across Ivan Van Sertima's book purely by accident and now I know it wasn't spacemen but West Africans and before them it was Nubian/Egyptian/Phoenician mariners that struck the land of the Olmecs around 600 B.C.Mr. Columbus really missed the party!
The sad irony is that by charging Western historians of base racism for discounting any possible evidence that might support his theory, he, in effect, is guilty of the same towards the Mayans, Incans and other native races by suggesting that they were incapable of coming up with these developments on their own.But I do encourage everyone to read it, largely as an exercise to think through what he states, and find the holes in his theory yourself.I will say that he definitely does establish for me, that there is definitely a good chance of some cultural transference do to a ship waylaid or suffering some other mishap - but he just doesn't establish a case to support his many fictionalized "historic" accounts of a trading relationship.
a really engaging account of how there is a widespread body of evidence for African contact with the Americas on numerous occasions throughout history. this really is one of the most groundbreaking works on an unknown aspect of history I've ever read. I'm not one for books based around archaeology or anthropology but this weaved the research from these fields brilliantly into the narrative of the work. definitely one worth reading for anyone interested in history
"how you like us now?"
Van Sertima lays out an overwhelming amount of evidence of a constant African presence in Ancient America, centuries before Columbus set sail.
The evidence in undeniable and illustrates how history can easily be distorted by the political climate of the time.
After all, the US economy could never be what it is today if it were not for African slaves, and such slavery relied on 'scientific racism'.
The presence and influence of Africans had to be covered up wherever it was found.
This book left me questioning the legitimacy of all the history lessons I have been taught, and whether they too are mere fictions that were created to support the political agenda of their time.
Obviously this is a controversial book, but it's a good book.
Overall I'm not sure the narrative is succinct enough to convince the average bugaboo.
I don't know enough about archaeology to say for sure how valid his arguments are in that regard, but they certainly hold their own logically.
As for the concerns that Van Sertima belittles the accomplishments of Indigenous Americans- he makes quite clear that is not his intent, at least in an Afrocentric context.
And he does specifically mention that he does not seek to undermine the accomplishments of Native America.
I feel like I would have rated this book higher if I had read it earlier in life when I was inundated with material that perpetuated social darwinistic myths about the inadequacies of non-european cultures.
Since then however I had read better researched and better written material which supports the (now seemingly obvious) notion that civilizations of all cultural and ethnic stripes and in many geographic locations made very similar technological advances around the same period and those that ultimately came to prominence on a world wide scale had the help of other geographic factors and just dumb luck.
Other authors make this point in a more reasoned manner supported by more research.
This book provides the underpinnings for my novel "The Nubian Codex" (See under "writing" and "thrillers.")It is an awesome, necessary piece of scholarship of which most Americans are totally oblivious.
I wasted no time procuring this excellent read by literary scholar, Ivan Van Sertima. I was fortunate to witness one of his talks as a student while attending Cal-State University, Long Beach. The research is outstanding, rooted in truth and well documented!
Read the book 1.5 times. This text should be required reading for all high school students.
Should be required reading in Junior High maybe even elementary schools in the U.S.
Powerful and detained argument for African presence in Mesoamerica centuries ahead of Columbus.
i've always believed that it was a moral imperative - getting to take credit for and expecting gratitude because of "introducing the African to the world" - and not a slight on technology that prompted many to deny a pre-Columbian African presence in America and it was great to see my sentiment echoed here... or something like that.
Likewise numerous studies of the Dogon Tribe of West/Central Africa have some Astonomical knowledge of the Sirius Star system which we "Modern's" did not know until the Hubble Telescope.Though filled with Sources and Citations, Ivan falls short in a few areas.
And though he spends many pages proving exactly how easy it is to get to South America from Africa and back; He never once speculates the very obvious possibility that TRADE WENT BOTH WAYS!
Even on his chapter dedicated to the "Mystery of American Tobacco in Africa," he never once submits, that maybe, just maybe, South American Natives brought Tobacco to Africa.He also shows an incomplete knowledge of West African Religions and customs.
He masterfully wove in threads of information from botanical, linguistics, archeology and anthropology to prove his points.The book, while primarily speaking on the Black African experience, provides great insight into the great skills and discoveries by Japanese, Chinese, Arabs, Portuguese, Indian (Original Americans)) and others.
Mr. Sertima also introduced evidence that the American Indians discovered Europe as early as 62 BC.
The insightful study of how 77 American Indian tribal names were the same as those of the Berbers in Africa will leaving you wanting to discover more about this information.All-in-all this wasn't a "pro-black" book rather it was an affirmation of less documented and talked about successes of the black race and others.
This book says hugely, monumentally important things. This is a book that ought to be required reading for everybody living on Earth. Van Sertima plainly and thoroughly explains countless examples of African presence in pre-Columbian America, from gigantic Olmec stone heads with African features to the most obscure Egyptian symbols showing up in Mexican graves. More and more, I've come to see the ignorance/refusal to acknowledge not just African presence, but influence in ancient America, to be the greatest conspiracy ever devised.
I thought this would be an interesting read, but it was terrible.. It almost ended up om my 'abandoned' shelf but I just needed to finish it to be certain ;)Sure, i believe people could have made it from Africa to America in the ages before Columbus or even the Vikings, but Van Sertima just isn't convincing. I've read far more plausible evidence against his case. The dramatization doesn't  help either.
Ivan Van Sertima has written a seminal work of alternative anthropology and cultural history of MesoAmerica. Combining a colorful writing style and hard facts, Van Sertima gives proof of the presence of the African (including Egyptian) presence in Latin America. He includes many photos and cites observations he made on numerous trips into Latin America. I enjoyed reading this and have reread sections of it over the years.
I actually just picked this book up at the Afrikan bookstore out here. There is a slight reference to textile trading that caught my attention. Apparently, Afrikan textiles were treated as the finest fabrics by europeans and were only worn by europeans who were wealthy and/or royalty.... still doing research on it. Anyone have any book suggestions on Afrikan Fabrics? k.
This book makes you want to read something with actual hard evidence.
Don't get me wrong, his history is accurate but the direction he goes just doesn't have enough hard evidence for his ideas to become mainstream, it's almost as if Sertima started a journey he knew he wouldn't be able to finish with the evidence and research at his disposal.
The joy of this book came from his ideas, propositions, and historical hypotheticals.
I believe we will see the same with the African presence in America and you can say you read it first with Sertima's excellent book.
I think this book was very ground breaking, and Van Sertima's theory is very interesting, though a bit essentialist and for the critical eye, quite problematic.
In the beginning of the book, I think he spends too much energy trying to make an argument that, at best, has several holes, and, at worse, is filled with speculation.
I had previously heard so many good things about this book, but I was a bit disappointed.
I support reading it though, because regardless of Van Sertima's approach, this book is definitely valuable to those interested in cultural anthropology, Black/African history and the African Diaspora.
