https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33257757-iron-gold
Scintillating. Just scintillating. This author seems to really understand the way my clock ticks. If you know what I mean, boyo.
Don't forget to scroll down after these pics to see the link to the special HOWLER BOX W/ GOODIESTHIS IS MY FREAKING SIGNED/NUMBERED AND ORANGE STAINED EDITION THAT CAME TODAY!
This is the black stained/signed edition of the book.
(Also one of my 2 black sprayed/signed editions came)THE STUFF
I know some people might be upset over someone's death in the book but for some reason I don't think it really happened.
I love Sevro so much and I'm so afraid something is going to happen in the next two books or at the end of the third one.
The story takes place ten years after the end of Morning Star and to tell you what the book is about—spoiler-free, of course—there’s really no better way than to let Pierce Brown himself explain it:
This is actually one of the many reasons why I really love Red Rising Saga; even though the series is sci-fi and the majority of the time it doesn’t take place on Earth, it was incredibly scary, relatable, and it was almost prophetic how the mayhem in this book and series seems to always correlate with our world.
I absolutely love them; the set-pieces, the buildup, the execution, they were all wonderfully well-written.Pierce Brown also did a spectacular job with his world-building in the book.
I loved the first three Red Rising books & I was worried that this new addition may be unnecessary, even if the prospect of continuing on with such an amazing tale was exciting.But let me just say, Iron Gold is purely additive.Pierce Brown doesn't write like he's in it for the wrong reasons.
Red Rising as a series is not Hard Science Fiction, but the advanced tech of the era is critical to the story being told & I appreciate that it is communicated in a way that gives me clear imagery without assuming I'm in need of a physics lesson.
Well, new characters sounds cool.So, I went into this sort of expecting it to have a bit of stuff with the original cast, but mainly it would be about the new guys fighting to make the new Republic work and whatnot.Now, I'm not saying that's what I should have expected!
He did his part, and I don't want to read more about him.And because of that, I didn't really enjoy any of the stuff about Virginia or Sevro, either.
1.  Red Rising: ★★★★★2. Golden Son: ★★★★★3. Morning Star: ★★★★Reading Iron Gold, you can safely infer that George R. R. Martin is an author Pierce Brown has sought inspiration from. The book is dark, full of betrayal, lost hopes, war, violence, regrets, etc. There is a little humor sprinkled here and there, but make no mistake: this is no light-hearted sci-fi fantasy. I guess the previous books weren’t either, but this one struck me as being particularly grim. In his author description here, he
In his author description here, he says he explores themes with power and “men and women finding their inner strength when all seems lost.” You will definitely see a lot of that here.Iron Gold is a powerfully written story that takes place ten years after the end of book 3.
There were definitely highlights, but overall, it gets a solid four stars, and I will be reading the next one because now I just have to know what happens.Buddy read with the Buddies Books and Baubles group.Previous posts:Update 3/10/17: From a Pierce Brown email list message: Meet LYRIA from Iron Gold.A Red, recently liberated from the mines of Mars, Lyria wants so badly to believe in the principles and dreams of the Rising.
12/15/16: http://www.ew.com/article/2016/12/15/...So. Much. YAASSS.
"War eats the victors last." SPECTACULAR STORYTELLING! I knew before that Pierce Brown had a great way with words. But with interweaving 4 different POVs into one story, his storytelling skills reached new heights. I was spellbound from beginning to the end and as cliché as it may sound, I could not put this book down. Pierce Brown definitely knows how to make me FEEL while I read his books!Once again, Darrow's POV and storyline touched me the most. He is the ultimate tortured hero and author s
Pierce Brown definitely knows how to make me FEEL while I read his books!Once again, Darrow's POV and storyline touched me the most.
But all in all, I'm very curious to see where Pierce Brown will take his character in the next book.
The last one of new characters, Ephraim, is another proof that Pierce Brown likes his characters to be complex, complicated and never ever fully good or fully bad.
And to imagine that there are even bigger things to come, I truly cannot wait for Dark Age!PRE-REVIEW:Whatever Pierce Brown writes, I read it.
I felt like the Red Rising trilogy had a near perfect, fantastic, ending but I was still looking forward to this sequel series (despite the dreaded 10 years time jump) because I always felt like this world was so awesome that it had a lot more stories worth telling.
Audio Note: I had some serious concerns going into Iron Gold when I heard that Recorded Books had decided to limit Tim Gerard Reynolds role in the book by brining in three new narrators to voice the three new POV segments.
I'm still puzzled by why they thought this was a good idea as TGR is one of the best narrators out there and his performance of the original Red Rising was fantastic.
I sooo wish I hadn't read this.
it.☆ i feel like it destroyed ALL the reasons I loved the characters in the original trilogy☆ I literally hated Darrow by the end of this and???
Ugh, this was achingly good.Marry me Mr. Brown, and feed me titbits from the next book!
Done in one day, but how long to recover??
#1.) Red Rising ★★★#2.) Golden Son ★★★★#3.) Morning Star ★★★★
I though Pierce’s plan for the Red Rising saga was ballsy from the moment I heard about it, but thankfully the man followed through brilliantly.With every book I’ve read from him, I’ve been more and more impressed with Pierce’s writing.
Assimilate...They planted us in stones, watered us with pain, and now marvel how we have thorns.”One of the reasons that Darrow worked so well as a main character in the original trilogy was his fallibility.
But what I really loved was the expansion offered by the other point of view characters, an expansion that allows readers to experience far more of the world Pierce has created.
The cover though...
You'll have to forgive my language, but DAMN YOU, PIERCE.
Rip my heart out by making the stakes even higher, making me care about even more characters in this incredible world you've built, only to leave fates hanging in the balance and the universe on the brink of an even bigger war?
DAMN YOU, PIERCE.
Oh, sorry, there was more.Pierce Brown has done it again.
Now, he's upping the stakes and bringing more characters into the fold...
You've done it to us before -- you know the ones I'm talking about, Pierce.
Because the world, the characters, the stakes, the loss...
Stakes are definitely upped.
MORE SEVRO AND VICTRA PLEASE. THANKS PIERCE BROWN YOU MAGNIFICENT CREATOR.
Four Stars: ✰✰✰✰ I have a love/hate relationship with Pierce Brown. On the one hand, his books are just ridiculously cool, and they combine so many elements of many genres that I love dearly. It almost feels like a Sci-fi/Space Opera-Dystopian-Fantasy hybrid, and he does a really great job of this, without making it difficult to read. The first Red Rising trilogy is probably one of the most recommendable series that I've ever read - not because they're the most amazing books ever, but because s
I wasn't particularly drawn in by any of the characters; the scope felt limited due to the singular first person POV from Darrow; the writing, at times, felt clunky to me; and just honestly so many sequences of the book felt way too dramatic.
Rather than just having Darrow, we get FOUR individual POVs, creating an almost entirely new cast of characters we never really got to know before, while still giving people who loved the original trilogy all of the connections and references that they could hope to have.
“We didn’t prepare for this.” “How do you prepare for a kick in the balls?” I say. “You don’t. You suck it up.”  ^ yep this. Full Review to Come.
Yup. The man ain't sliding on his storytelling.Expect excellent things.
Difficult things.
Tragic things.
And best of all, NEW CHARACTERS!
And old, of course.
:) The wheel turns and turns and turns.Yep. I'm a fanboy.
It only gets deeper with this new book.
And Brown is exceeding expectations.
A lot of plot happens here as well as character development.
This is a bona fide start of a new trilogy (or more).
And I don't care because I'm fully invested in these big books.
3.5 stars In Pierce Brown's 'Red Rising Trilogy' which precedes this book, humans - who had colonized the entire Solar System - were separated into caste-like Color categories.
NOT SO FAST!!In 'Iron Gold' - the first book of Pierce Brown's new series -it's ten years after the revolution.
Pierce Brown populates the book with a large array of characters, including several favorites from the Red Rising Trilogy, such as: Sevro au Barca (Darrow's best friend); Victra au Barca (Sevro's wife); Dancer (Darrow's former mentor, now a powerful Senator); Kieran (Darrow's brother); Rhonna (Darrow's niece); and more.
I knew this would happen.January 16th 2018I'm ready for this.Book four of Red Rising series ? or a new one ?
Previously the entire story has been told from Darrow's point of view but here Pierce Brown opens up the world even further by introducing three new POV characters too.
At first he didn't seem like an obvious choice for a narrator, he's a disillusioned Rising fighter who has pretty much given up on life and now puts all his effort into criminal activities, but as you get to know him you'll understand why he has an important tale to tell.By far my favourite new POV character was Lyria, she's a young red who was rescued from one of the mines on Mars by the Rising.
This review was originally posted on Books of My Heart  “We didn’t prepare for this.”   “How do you prepare for a kick in the balls?” I say.
“You don’t.
You suck it up.”  This is pretty much how I felt for the majority of this book.
I wasn’t prepared to see our hero  10 years later  still fighting a war that seems like it will have no end.
I wasn’t ready for the sins of the past to come back and throw our hero into yet another war.
I couldn’t have dreamed of the fate of the Reds of Mars brought
We come back to this world right before the sh*t hits the fan.While the first three books are all from Darrow’s PoV,  Iron Gold flips the script and has four PoVs to really open up the scope of the story and the world-building.It is interesting to see Darrow wrestle with the choices he has made and the man he has become in this never ending war.
I couldn’t put this down after I got to the 60% mark and needed to read until I found out everything that happened and which of the characters made it out alive.Iron Gold sets up nicely for the war(s) to come and I’m so excited to see where the next book in the series dares to go.
Iron Gold takes place 10 years after the end of Morning Star so I dont want to spoil anything by giving a summary.In Iron Gold we get Darrows point of view along with Lysanders, Eph and Lyrias.
I liked seeing how the characters from the first trilogy had grown in the 10 years since we read about them, but I think some of the new perspectives made it harder for me to get completely invested in the story.
Lysanders and Eph points of view were a little frustrating to read at times, but I know they werent meant to be likeable.
I also ended up liking Eph character arc.
DNF after 140 pages
At last it is time for Iron Gold, the continuation of the Red Rising Saga and first of the new trilogy, boy oh boy what a book this is.I was one of the lucky few to get an early copy and I banged through it without really noticing the world around me – I shall not give away any real plot details, fans of the saga will genuinely not want to know until they get there – but suffice to say that Iron Gold is a book that was worth the wait.
I’m usually well behind the power curve on new books and series, but I’ve been on the Red Rising bandwagon since the beginning, and the interminable wait between Morning Star and Iron Gold has been excruciating.
Where the first three books of the Red Rising trilogy were single viewpoint affairs, only letting us witness events from Darrow’s point-of-view, Iron Gold expands on the tale and gives us multiple viewpoints, truly allowing the narrative to grow and be an epic solar-system spanning affair.
The way his story plays out is one of the big twists of the book, and I really don’t want to even come within grazing distance of spoilers.
Nevertheless the story had a hold on me and I kept picking it up until I had finished it.
I really felt bad for Darrow as everything slipped away from him, but he only featured as a part of this book as we kept switching to other people's POVs. At first it was hard to see why these people had popped up but as the story progressed everything started to tie up.
If it keeps going at this rate there won't be any families left!Still I have travelled so far with Darrow now I will have to see him through to the end, whatever that may hold for him.
