https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35412097-when
The author does an entertaining job of writing and reading. He does an admirable job of making one contemplate the importance of considering timing -- one's inner rhythms and those of others. Too bad it often rings of glossy pop psychology, though -- an amalgamation of sometimes iffy statistics via sweeping conclusions...
But the most useful thing about this book is his Time Hacker’s Handbook: salient points from each section are condensed into summaries full of hints and tips and practical exercises that appear after each of the first six chapters.
Pink explains in detail: why having a coffee before a power nap makes sense; why combining a lunch break with an education session at 1pm (as some teaching hospitals do with their Grand Rounds) is counterproductive (ditto 8am lectures for University students); when the worst time to be a hospital patient is, and why; and the reason some people have the so-called “mid-life crisis”.
it's importantly to do things not in a haphazard way, especially with important decisions.This book is good when you want to build an ideal schedule, have a fresh start, or see time as a friend, not an enemy.
Self-improvement really benefits from good timing, and this book really help you with it.
What I mean by the latter is that the advice wasn't as practical as it sounded since it required implementing ideas that require a lot of mental effort and aren't very sustainable, much like the advice I've read in many self-help books that very few people can actually follow through on.
This is a common practice in books like this and while I suspect for many cases, the theories actually hold up, making broad generalizations sound like facts is unscientific and annoying.
Pink has written a gem of a how-to book that cites and summarizes a huge amount of research on how to get things accomplished more efficiently, despite basic biological/organizational challenges like afternoon lulls and beginning-of-project chaos. Readers will close the book with several ideas about how to make better, happier use of each day's hours. Don't miss the last section on the joys of synchronicity, from crew to choral singing to the tradition in India of lunch delivery.Highly recommended.
Similarly, if you are in court, the disposition of the judge is a lot more lenient in the morning.To work the most efficiently, it's important to figure out your own cycle of effectiveness--what the author calls "Waves of the Day." Each day, our disposition traverses three stages--a peak, a trough, and a recovery.
Here's something really scary: A study of parole judges showed a significant difference in their rulings, based on the time of day.
Perhaps the most alarming research was the study showing how parole board judges were stricter later in the day.
It's my fault for reading this pathetic excuse for a book. It's not Pink's fault for writing a book that says nothing new at all or the publisher's fault for promoting a book that has absolutely no value whatsoever. I knew what it was when I picked it up. And yet, I am a sucker for self-help books that just regurgitate a bunch of soft science I already read in the New York Times. It's my fault. Don't make the same mistake. Maybe I made this terrible decision in the afternoon?
It discusses (among other things) the hidden pattern of every day life, beginnings, midpoints, and ends, synching and belonging, and thinking in tenses.
It is to integrate our perspectives on time into a coherent whole, one that helps us comprehend who we are and why we’re here.” Daniel Pink is, and has been, for many years, my favorite non-fiction author.
He does a great job describing social studies and uncovering results and tips that can help people be better - at work and in life.
His books are comprehendible but more importantly, really interesting - at least they always have been to me.
In this book he talks about timing.
1. Most people do well in analytical tasks and have better mood in the morning, worse in the afternoon, and slightly better in the evening.
A power nap of 20 minutes is good; it is even better if one drinks coffee just before the nap so that when one wakes up the coffee perks one up.
Students who start later for school do better.
People’s happiness dip during midlife.
6. Working in synchrony with others makes us happy.
7. People who speak languages with poor tenses ( Chinese, German, Finnish) prepare for retirement more, practice safer sex etc.
Read the full review at my blog Digital AmritI used to believe that timing was everything.
Now I believe that everything is timing.What is the book about?When: The Scientific Secrets of Perfect Timing is written by Daniel Pink, famed author of books like Drive, A Whole New Mind, To Sell is Human etc.
The second section covers long terms patterns – how do we start habits, how we are influenced by beginnings and endings, how to deal with mid-life crises etc.
The last section covers how to get into harmony with timings.Each chapter is also followed by a time hacking section which has practical advice on timing.Read the full review at my blog Digital Amrit
I picked this up because lately, I can’t shake a sense of panic about time slipping through my fingers (babies becoming biggies will do that, so too will turning 39 in a few weeks, which the author spends some time talking about - “the nines” and how they approach life). No big surprises in this book but a quick and fun read nonetheless. Also, So. Much. Stanford. But I love that place, so...
اسم "دانيال بينك" على كتابٍ علامةُ جودة (على حدّ تعبير بلال فضل بخصوص المترجمين). يشتغل "بينك" عادةً على موضوعٍ يختاره كلّ عامين أو ثلاثة فيُشبعه بحثًا واستقصاءً، قبل أن يضعه في كتابٍ مميّز. ويظهر أثر ذلك في ما يذكره ويحيل إليه في كتبه من أبحاثٍ ودراساتٍ، وقصصٍ وأمثلة. ويتجلّى ذلك أكثر ما يتجلّى في ما يذكره من استثناءات واستدراكات وتعارضات للفكرة التي يطرحها ويدور حولها. لتكون حصيلة ذلك كلّه متعةٌ وفائدة، وقدر عالٍ من الإحاطة. أضف إلى ذلك ما اعتاد فعله في كتبه من وضع ما يشبه "الوصفة" العملية في
اسم "دانيال بينك" على كتابٍ علامةُ جودة (على حدّ تعبير بلال فضل بخصوص ‏المترجمين).
‏يشتغل "بينك" عادةً على موضوعٍ يختاره كلّ عامين أو ثلاثة فيُشبعه بحثًا ‏واستقصاءً، قبل أن يضعه في كتابٍ مميّز.
ويتجلّى ذلك أكثر ما يتجلّى في ما يذكره ‏من استثناءات واستدراكات وتعارضات للفكرة التي يطرحها ويدور حولها.
‏أضف إلى ذلك ما اعتاد فعله في كتبه من وضع ما يشبه "الوصفة" العملية في نهاية ‏كلّ فصلٍ من فصول الكتاب، بغية وضع المعلومات الواردة في حيّز التطبيق ‏والتنفيذ.‏جاء هذا الكتاب على ذات النسق المذكور، وكان هذه المرّة عن "التوقيت".
وأعيب على الكتاب تكراره لبعض الأفكار في الفصل الواحد.
‏ختامًا، فهذا الكتاب هو الأضعف بين كتبه الأخيرة.
This is one highly readable volume about a fascinating topic that affects us all in a multitude of different ways.’AU Review ‘An appreciation of time, some might say an obsession to the fraction of a second, seems to set humans apart from all other species…Despite the subtitle, this book is not about the scientific measurement of time, but about relative time, revealing the regular patterns of people’s lives they so often adhere to, unaware, and with no idea why.’Otago Daily Times‘Pink’s fourth book should be compulsory reading for bosses, educators, and schedulers, for policymakers, company executives, and performers, but there is plenty in this fascinating book that the average person will find applicable to their lives.
This is a quick read that rewards time spent with some excellent insights.’ BookMooch
This means you want to solve all your analytical problems in the morning (when your brain is processing data best), and all your insight problems in the afternoon (you want your filters to be loose).Here are some things that happen when we don’t allow our brains to do things at the “proper” time of day: People go to jail for longer; doing poorly in school is easier due to fatigue after long hours without restorative breaks; the Lusitania is catastrophically torpedoed by the Germans.
7yrs old) we are early-to-rise larks, but teenagers (on avg) are owls and perform better later in the day.Truly one of the most interesting books I’ve read in a long time.
The first 'when-to?' among crowded 'how-to?' book genre Strengths+ brief, enjoyable and clever+ lots of useful and practical advice+ plenty of insightful examples+ well-crafted non-fiction with memorable anecdotes and vignettes Weaknesses+ does not go into 'scientific' depth behind the phenomena discussed. it stays a quite 'high-level' throughout Perfect 'commuter companion' for planes or trains ;)
“When” is destined to become required reading for all college students regardless of major. Daniel H. Pink shines the stage lights on Perfect timing, bringing it out of the shadows of mystic good ol’ fashioned luck and showcasing it as a learnable, teachable and accomplishable part of the show of life. This may have been the first time I read about studies and laughed. Mr. Pink’s humor and chapter summations kept me going at just the right time.
I wish I could do 3.5 stars. This book was a little slow/repetitive to start but the useful tips and exercises throughout have had me quoting it for the past week and gave me some good work ideas: including ending the day with a quick thank you email to someone. Worth the read if you’re looking for ways to strategize your time or make a fresh start.
Excellent book on when you need to do something (work, relax, decision making etc). I like all of Daniel's books - but this one is the best!
I read Dan Pink's Drive before I read his A Whole New Mind, which was a better order because Drive was better written and had a more accurate message than Mind.
And, as with Drive, he's very good at summarizing the extensive research he's done on this book - which he provides in his end notes, and encourages his readers to read and check his conclusions.
(Some authors don't even provide references...Bill O'Reilly, take note...) Pink looks at timing patterns of the day, associated with beginnings, middles, and endings, and synchronization.
تجربه افراد از زمان یک روز یکسان نیست.
بخش دوم کتاب به شروع ها، میانه ها و پایان ها اختصاص پیدا کرده.
آگاهی از تاثیر این موضوع و به کار گرفتن راهکارهایی که بتونه به ما کمک کنه، مفیده.
همین طور میانه ها و پایان ها هم تاثیر روانی زیادی دارند که نمی شه نادیده گرفت.برای هر کدوم این اینها راهکارهایی پیشنهاد می شه که در زمان خودش می شه به کار گرفت تا تجربه های بهتری رو خلق کنیم.بخش پایانی هم در مورد هماهنگی و زمانسنجی گروهی و تاثیر اون روی همکاری افراده که به درد مدریت گروه ها می خوره.
But unlike a typical productivity book, this one is based on your own rhythms and needs, coupled with what science has said about those things.
The biggest take away is that the dip in productivity and clarity in the middle of the day is average across all types of people and maybe is best used not on your brainy tasks, but on the mundane.
That, or, prior to those brainy needs mid-day, time is offered for a break, a walk, socializing, or other means of stepping away to unplug and replug.
It's a quick and thought-provoking read that, like with any self-help/business/productivity book, is take some, leave the rest.
Fabulous tips on how to increase productivity by making subtle changes to your work routine. Highly recommended for any woman crawling through the afternoon energy slump by consuming too much sugar and caffeine. Highly recommended!
This is a Goodreads win review. This book having perfect timing for everything in your life.. He talks about the patterns we have every day.
Pink puts when in the context of the waves of the day (your chronobiology), the events of the day (the importance of lunch, breaks, naps), the when of getting on track (sometimes you need to re-start), the meaning of when milestones (the importance of midpoints and poignant endings), and the important role of timing in becoming synchronized with the people and the world around us, which, in turn, fosters belonging and a sense of purpose.As is the current trend in books of this genre, the prognosis and the recommendations are scientific, which essentially means that Pink and his researchers have scoured a lot of literature looking for patterns.The problem with patterns, however, is that it is often difficult to know if you are witnessing a causal pattern or a resulting pattern.
After reading it you will surely feel you have learned more about timing and you will have specific changes that you would like to implement.
we have to use this study we researched about, so let's just put a slightly related sentence at the end of the paragraph and add one more footnote!" Since I was reading on a Kindle and I was genuinely interested in his actual comments in the footnotes, I checked them all, but I wish he would have used a different symbol to distinguish actual comments from study references.CONCLUSION:This is a nice book.
Although I knew for a long time about circadian rhythms and the difference between morning and night people, this book presented everything in such a clear way that just for that is worth the reading.
For example, it is typical for people to feel a slump, a lack of motivation, in the middle of their lives, and this can take some of the edge of a person's guilt for not getting goals achieved by a set time.
Other examples:It is typical to feel the need for a nap in the middle of the afternoon.
And the coffee is to ensure the nap isn't longer than 20 minutes, as it takes that long after consumption for the caffeine to kick in.Most people are more productive in the morning between 7 and 12 and then again between 5 pm and 9 pm.
At other times, a not-as-interesting self-help book for the overextended and/or the procrastinator.
The popular science book still gives some good ideas about how to behave.There are some pretty terrifying statistics that should give second thoughts to anyone with an appointment for surgery in the afternoon.
There are no instructions on how to beat into submission the mid-level managers and school board who will inevitably fail to be impressed by the evidence.One chapter said, in summary, that groups of people condemned to work together under deadline never get anything done until 50% of the allotted for the task is wasted.
It has some useful tips, but the books is written like a collection of lifehacks and towards the end of the book stops being about time or the 'when' problem at all.Some research seemed dubiously attributed to the morning-afternoon hypothesis because it originally targeted other problems related to our thinking and I'm not convinced you can just change "before/after mealtime" research into "morning/afternoon" like Pink did without running a new research.
Thanks, but I hardly think it's a timing problem.
We all wonder when is the best time to be productive, take breaks, make decisions. Pink explains the reasons behind the timing. He claims timing is everything. Maybe not everything but it sure helps to know the right timing. One of my favorite parts of the book is the Time Hacker’s Handbook, a list of practical tips to incorporate in your daily life, that he included at the end of every chapter.
Definitely some worthwhile information in here, but I see this as more of a read to skim than a deep dive. Pink does a good job of backing up his points with research and also cites a few books to check out afterwards. I did take note of a few of the tidbits he shared, but didn't feel like I walked away learning anything that was incredibly surprising or life changing.
