https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64108.Book_of_Enchantments
It's not necessary to have read anything else set in these locales to appreciate either story (I hadn't at the time I read this collection, and still haven't read any other Witch World fiction); but in the case of the humorous "Utensile Strength," spun off from Wrede's own Enchanted Forest Chronicles (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8...
It's enhanced by a short author's note explaining the inspiration for each of the stories; and readers who like recipes with their books will also like the appended one for "Quick After Battle Triple Chocolate Cake," inspired by the culinary-related "Utensile Strength," and requested by Jane Yolen, who published the first printing of the collection.
As a general rule of thumb, I don't like wizards and I dislike books that are simply a collection of short stories.
Wrede though and especially  The Enchanted Forest Chronicles  so when I found this book at our library, I couldn't resist.And I'm glad I didn't!Wrede is a delightful writer with funny characters and delightful plots you can't help liking.
I was surprised by how much I enjoyed the collection of short stories and the variations I found in them.Ten stories, each one with a slightly different theme/take, but all involving magic.
I enjoyed that they all don't always end on a "happily-ever-after" note.
The very last story even has characters from The Enchanted Forest Chronicles!
I really enjoyed these stories. Wrede has a wonderful sense of humor and subversion in her fantasy. Only a handful of these will make a lasting impression, but they were enjoyable in the moment. My favorite story was the first, about a greedy wizard who unfortunately gets everything he wished for from a blue chipmunk god.
Short fairy-tale type stories, some of which take place in the Enchanted Forest.
My favorite story of the bunch.2.
But help from the earth comes with a price.
A nearby elderly woodcutter comes home to find a stranger at his doorstep, asking for assistance getting in.
Interesting twist to a traditional tale.9.
Utensile Strength, also referred to the Frying Pan of Doom: ****Brings back our favorite Enchanted Forrest characters, Cimmorene, Mendanbar, and Daystar.
A frying pan was enchanted as a weapon by mistake, and the family agrees to help by finding the hero that can wield it.
I think, perhaps, that I am too old to read these stories.
These three stories are the gems of this book and I encourage anyone, young or old, to read them because they speak to our darkest fears, our fondest hopes, and to the child in us all.If I had been 13 when I read this for the first time instead of 27, I think I would have been madly in love with the stories and the storyteller.
I think this would be the perfect bridge between the Disney-fied fairy tale and the dark disturbing world of Grimms and Perrault and English bards.
The ten stories included are the following:"Rikiki and the Wizard""The Princess, the Cat, and the Unicorn""Roses by Moonlight""The Sixty-Two Curses of Caliph Arenschadd""Earthwitch""The Sword-Seller""The Lorelei""Stronger Than Time""Cruel Sisters""Utensile Strength"Two tongue-in-cheek tales are set in the "Enchanted Forest" of the author's existing dragon book series.
Even readers who aren't drawn to the literature of sword and sorcery may enjoy "Utensile Strength," a humorous tale in which a wizard tries to create the ultimate weapon and ends up with the Frying Pan of Doom.
I read and enjoyed Sorcery & Cecelia: or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot, co-written by Wrede and Caroline Stevermer.In this collection for Jan Yolen books, there are ten stories (and a cake recipe!) blending folklore, fairytale, and fantasy to create a most appealing melange to charm and delight.
Wrede turns the fantasy and fairytale tropes on their heads for many of the stories, including "The Princess, the Cat, and the Unicorn" and "Utensile Strength." She re-imagines fairy and folk tales in "The Lorelei" and "Stronger Than Time." One of my favorite folk songs is fleshed out and given life in "Cruel Sisters." And her "Roses by Moonlight," her take on the Prodigal Son story, is haunting and fascinating.
Thankfully it was short.Notes on content: Perilous situations and definite creep factor."Stronger Than Time"***A retelling of Sleeping Beauty that focuses on a old woodcutter and a prince who comes to visit him one night.Review: I figured out the twist in this one pretty early.
Those who like tragedies should eat this up.Notes on content: Two deaths, neither bloody."Utensile Strength" *****When an goes to create the ultimate weapon and misfires so that the enchantment becomes bonded to a frying pan instead of sword, his son is sent to seek the help of King Mendanbar in figuring out what the Frying Pan of Doom does.
Love this one.This is a collection of fantasy short stories by Patricia Wrede, author of the Enchanted Forest series (Calling on Dragons, etc.). While there is an Enchanted Forest series story in this one (Frying Pan of Doom), the real gems are the stand-alones. A story about a group of high schoolers encountering the Lorelei (my favorite!!), a story about a magical rose garden you can only experience once, a story about a selfish Caliph. These really are enchanting stories--but also vividly real takes of the decisions we make and the consequences we live must live with.
A collection of short stories. All fantasy.Other than that -- some contemporary, some in other worlds -- some in shared worlds, or the Enchanted Forest. Some lightsome and merry, others rather dark. Retold tales, with a twist, and originals. Most of them strong stories.Involving chestnuts, a scullery maid, a statue of the Lorelei, a spiteful little sister who tells lies, a wood cutter, a reunion, a girl talking back to the caliph, in various ones.There's also a recipe at the back of the book
I read this book when I was younger, it's a Young Adult book by an author whose other books I had also read. This book has some short stories set in her normal universe and some that are quite separate. I remember really enjoying this collection and it's variety when I was a young reader, and would recommend it to other young fans of SciFi/Fantasy.
This collection of short quirky stories was a fun, quick read. This would be a good book to read at Halloween with some of the haunting fable-type stories in the collection.
Disappointing short fantasy stories. I love PCW, but this is far from her usual standard.
I don't know when I first read this book -- a long time ago -- but it's one that I re-read every couple of years and this year 2018 was one of them.
Some stories resonate more, some less, some details I notice and wonder about.
I really enjoyed reading the author's note at the end this time around, for whatever reason -- the stories behind the stories.This re-read made me want to revisit the author's dragon series, which I haven't read since I first read them many, many years ago and enjoyed...and other works by the author, that I haven't read...
I can never get enough of Patricia C Wrede’s unique style. And the stories in this book allow that style to explore different tones, sometimes darker, heavier, meatier without becoming less irreverent and engaging. These stories sit with you, call back to you, and it is always a pleasure to come back to them after years away, like greeting an old friend who has grown up right along with you.
Delightful. A set of fairy tales, some new, some imagined, in which cleverness is not limited by age or gender or magical ability or even the border of death, and in which courage and nobility are similarly free. Probably recommended for middle grade readers but a charming interlude for anyone, I should think.
A truly wonderful collection of funny, clever, and thought-provoking stories. Each world Wrede paints is both imaginative and vividly real, and I never knew what to expect next! There were only a couple stories that didn't quite grab me, but the others were so captivating I can't even notch this down a star for that. I want to read these again sometime.
3.5/5Patricia C. Wrede has a gift for creating stories that just make me happy. I was particularly thrilled to see that this collection includes an Enchanted Forest story as those books hold an important place in my childhood. If you love Patricia C. Wrede's novels or you just need some fantastical short stories in your life, I highly recommend this collection.
The Book of Enchantments is a collection of short stories, most of which are not set in the universe of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles. However, the stories are excellent, and I would highly reccomend the collection. I particularly liked Roses By Moonlight, The Lorelei, Stronger Than Time, and Cruel Sisters.
An enchanting collection of myths and fairy tales, ranging from silly to dark, with lots of Wrede's trademark humor and feisty heroines turning custom and tradition on its head. Characters from her beloved Enchanted Forest series make an appearance in the final story, followed by a recipe for "Quick After-Battle Triple Chocolate Cake", to be enjoyed warm while counting loot.
Re-reading a childhood favorite! Wrede does a nice job with her shot stories, mixing in silly stories with more though provoking and ambiguous ones. I loved this book as a middle schooler, and feel like it still holds up! A fantastic collection for young readers who like not your average fantasy.
Quite fun in parts. “Utensils Strength” clearly inspired a detail in Disney’s Tangled. Though I love the opening story of “Rikiki and the Wizard” the best. It’s so well written, it draws you in like a long lost myth. A fun follow-up to the Enchanted Forest Chronicles.
A very very fun little book with short stories. One is from the Dealing With Dragon series and has its own little recipe. Quick read but worth it- don't forget the read the notes from the author for where she got her story ideas, super neat!
This is a Witch World Story, and this is one case where I'd recommend flipping to the back almost immediately after reading the story to find out why Wrede decided to write a Witch World story, though it wasn't exactly an unusual undertaking at the time.(7) The Lorelei: You learn new things in the darnedest places.
Also, I've never used blackstrap molasses as an ingredient, so I don't know how it affects the flavor.(12) Notes from the Author: Which explains, among other things, how Wrede came to write a Witch World story.
I enjoyed the clever twist.The Princess, the Cat, and the Unicorn - I loved the premise of this, and the earlier bits that describe Elyssa's unconventional family are hilarious, but I did feel like it ended it a bit abruptly and the ending wrapped up a little too easily.
Loved the reference to Two Sisters, though.Roses by Moonlight - I remembered this making an impression on me, but I'd forgotten the ending.
This definitely felt like the most mature of the stories, and was probably one of my favorites.Cruel Sisters - I love rewritten fairy tales, and this one is based off the Two Sisters song that is mentioned in the unicorn story earlier.
As a kid, reading Book of Enchantments was the first time I knew short stories could be fun.
I never knew that you could write short stories in the same style and tone of some of my favorite childhood books.
I love every story in this collection, and I have read them over and over again throughout my childhood.
When I cam across Book of Enchantments at the library, I had to get it, because (1) there was an Enchanted Forest story in it and (2) I wanted to read more by Patricia C Wrede.This book contain ten short stories and a recipe for Quick After-Battle Chocolate Cake.
Outside of the Enchanted Forest story that is fun and witty, the rest of the other stories are varying levels of sadness.
I have read a handful of novellas recently, and the characters felt more believable in this book than in any of the recent novellas.Overall, I really enjoyed this collection of short stories.
Perhaps her skill lies with the shorter form: taking a snippet of an idea and twisting it into an intriguing, creative tale with just enough drama and humor to fill the pages, then leaving the reader hungry for more.
If not for "The Lorelei," I would've assumed Wrede's style simply doesn't work outside of a fantasy/fairy tale environment.
The final section, "Notes from the Author," was one of my favorite bits, with a fascinating rundown of Wrede's inspiration for each of the stories.
Even Sleeping Beauty, typically a passive character, displays a mind of her own.
(hide spoiler)]“Stronger Than Time”—A story about what would have happened if the prince came too late to awaken Sleeping Beauty.
I’m a long way from being a middle schooler, and I still had trouble sleeping after this one!All in all, this was a solid collection of short stories, highly recommended for teens and adults who are young at heart.
Be forewarned that some of the stories, like “Cruel Sisters”, “The Earthwitch”, and part of the “The Sixty-Two Curses of Caliph Arenschadd” may be too dark for younger readers.
Rikki and the Wizard (4/5) - A greedy wizard calls Rikki, a blue chipmunk god who loves nuts, and adorableness ensues.The Princess, the Cat, and the Unicorn (3/5) - A typical fairytale setting populated by characters with quirky, atypical personalities.Roses by Midnight (3/5) - Adrian sees glimpses of her possible futures.
This one was my favorite of the set.Utensile Strength (3/5) - A wizard accidentally enchants a frying pan to be the ultimate weapon, and Cimorene and Mendanbar (The Enchanted Forest) need to find its intended owner.Quick After-Bake Triple Chocolate Cake (3/5) - A cute chocolate cake recipe.
(I didn't try it.)This is a pretty light-hearted, cute, and amusing collection with a fairytale skew.
