https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14996.Brother_Odd
The thing with this series is that no matter how pointless each book may seem, I still find myself enjoying each one way or another.
This is the third one and I still don't see the point of the series, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.The whole book was composed of father ____ and sister ____ did this and that.
It was an easy listen, plus David Erin Baker narrated it perfectly.
I'll never prefer audiobooks over text, but at least I'm starting to appreciate it a lot.
Thanks a lot, David Erin Baker.
Will surely listen to his other audiobooks.3/5 stars.
I will be finishing this series, no matter how pointless it gets.
Bizarre, funny, and horrifying - three things I have come to expect from Odd Thomas. It didn't blow me away, but I enjoyed it.Also, since I live in the Indianapolis area and Odd spends a good deal of time discussing Indianapolis, Hoosiers (people from Indiana, not the movie), etc., I was entertained! The story itself didn't come anywhere near drawing me in as much as the characters. In fact, I am not sure I fully understand what happened, but oh well!Finally, one heck of a cliffhanger that has me very interested in the next one.
It was way to simple and quick of an ending for me.And the actual ending of the book, with Odd getting out of the car and walking away with his ghost dog (too cliche for me) and Elvis, I thought Dean Koontz was making a mockery of Odd, reducing him from a full, three dimensional character whom I felt deeply for to a puppet, stringing him and me along for more books, more money, more more for Mr. Koontz.This book was great, or more to the point, exactly what I was expecting and enjoyed and wanted to read, until chapter 48, or page 370.
B A D B O O K !Koont'z purple prose give me a migraine and makes me want to kill. This book will give your pets cholera.This book is responsible for increases in the gas tax.This book emanates the odor of previously owned Romano cheese.This book slapped my husband.This book voted for Bush.
EXCELLENT read.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------Reread April 20, 2017I decided to reread this one night as I was watching the movie "Odd Thomas" and thinking about how awesome it would have been to have had more than just one movie [but now impossible that Anton Yelchin has passed away] and then it made me think of how AMAZING he would have been in a movie based on this book [this is one of my favorites in the series, which is ironic because I don't understand much of what is going on in this book].
Which ever it was, for me, it failed on both accounts.A lot of the humour was just plain puerile, like the ghost of Elvis, who appears on numerous occasions, sticking his finger up his nose and wiggling out his ear.
This kind of puerile humour just goes on ad infinitum.
As a result of the ODD humour the horror story just never takes off.The book is 440 pages long, about 140 pages too long.
This could have been achieved by removing most, if not all, of the quantum physics theorising and the inane humour.
Odd Thomas is such an awesome character. I loved his integrity, his dry humor and his bravery. I recall reading a quote, something along the lines that bravery isn't the absence of fear, it's the presence of fear but the willingness to do what is needed, anyway. That describes Odd Thomas to a T.
Για τα δεδομένα του Koontz μπορώ να πω ότι ξαφνιάστηκα ευχάριστα. Καλοδουλεμένοι χαρακτήρες για πρώτη φορά, σουρεάλ διάλογοι (μόνο έτσι μπορώ να περιγράψω την εμφάνιση του φαντάσματος του Έλβις), αφήγηση που μπλέκει την ατμόσφαιρα τρόμου με χιούμορ πολύ έξυπνα και γρήγορη ροή. Ωστόσο το βιβλίο χτίζει εξαρχής την ύπαρξη του γύρω από μια ιδέα που ξαφνικά σκάει σαν άλλη τσιχλόφουσκα, τελειώνοντας απότομα και τσαπατσούλικα ενώ οι ήρωες και το ατμοσφαιρικό περιβάλλον θα μπορούσαν να είχαν εκμεταλλευτεί πολύ καλύτερα. Κρίμα.Απογοήτευση για ακόμη μια φορά.★★½
For a long time, I said it was my favorite but now I am rather partial to Odd Interlude and Odd Apocalypse.I like the idea of creating our own reality which I hadn't seen in Koontz's works since By the Light of the Moon , From the Corner of His Eye and most recently experienced in Ashley Bell.The most impressive thing to me is still the fact (view spoiler)[ that Boo is a Ghost Dog :-) I never saw that coming the first time I read the book and still upon re-reading the book, am impressed the way Dean writes this character into the story.
Brother Odd is Dean Koontz's redemption piece after the fiasco that was Forever Odd, whether or not the author thinks so is beside the point.
In Brother Odd, there's an abundance of quirky characters you can grow to love and worry about.
In Forever Odd there are a total of five characters throughout 99% of the book.
Though Dean goes into great detail about the happenings of the first book inside the pages of Brother Odd, there is but one mention in one tiny paragraph concerning the happenings of the second book.
To be honest, three stars was pretty generous, but I just have a hard time giving less unless a book is crap!
Don't get me wrong: this is far from crap, but unfortunately I liked it least of the three books in this series.
Maybe I was just "over" the premise, but I found many of the characters in this book to be ridiculous, including Mr. Thomas himself.
=( I was annoyed by his endless witty/sarcastic/funny comments.
They were all witty, all the time.
And Brother Knuckles was an annoying stereotype of a former mobster.
When I'm working hard on cleaning, organizing, repairing, or any of the mundane chores of life, I like to listen to audio books. I listened to Brother Odd over a three day period, and I found myself smiling and occasionally, unintentionally, pausing to listen instead of work. It was a fun mix of "I see dead people," Catholicism, Quantum smoke and mirrors, and mad scientist egoism. I love the compassion and respect Koontz brings to the perspective of people who are generally dismissed in our culture as broken or flawed. Good fun for suspense sci-fi and fantasy lovers.
Блудкаво и захаросано. С главен герой толкова идеален, че чак придразва. А диалозите, диалозите... на места са откровено малоумни. Упорито продължавам да чета Дийн Кунц, защото съм имал страхотни преживявания с него през годините, ама последните ми срещи са, кхъ-кхъ... доста нелепи....
I didn't care that much for the second book in the Odd Thomas series but this third book really kicked it up a notch. I thought the end came a bit too easily, but there was a lot of genuine tension throughout the book and some very nice description to go along with interesting characters.
It's been a while since I've read the Odd Thomas series, I had to go back and refresh my memory a little bit before jumping into this book, and I'm glad I did. Brother Odd was an entertaining and fun read, had some comedy in it, some parts making me laugh out loud. It did however take a bit to figure out the plot, and what's going on. But as I read more, it started making sense.No matter how weird or strange his books can be, I gotta say Dean Koontz is a phenomenal writer!
I have to agree with my Dad - this is the best Odd Thomas book so far. I'd go so far as to say it makes reading the other two books worth it. (And I did enjoy the other two books, but not as much as this one.) It is slower pace, true, but more philosophical and profound. Between the witty banter and memorable characters comes observations about faith, creation, and pain. And of course, murder. A creepy, thought-provoking read. (Or in my case, listen.)
, 2, and the sixteen months since Stormy's death have left Odd unbalanced, and he makes a deal with God to allow him to retreat from the world.But it seems that God has his own agenda in mind for Brother Odd, and it's the bodachs who awaken Odd to potential trouble, followed by the body in the courtyard.Life and Death stalk St. Bart's.The CharactersOdd Thomas is a brilliant fry cook who happens to see dead people and feels compelled to help them find justice.
This was not my favorite Odd book. I still enjoyed it and I loved many of the characters, but something central to the plot was not what I was hoping for. (view spoiler)[ Originally, I thought the white bony things were too much added paranormal, then I thought adding Death was over the top. However, when all was explained it was just too science fictiony for me. (hide spoiler)]I much prefer Odd to be the most unrealistic part of the book. I can deal with him seeing ghosts and even bodachs. This
I still enjoyed it and I loved many of the characters, but something central to the plot was not what I was hoping for.
(hide spoiler)]I much prefer Odd to be the most unrealistic part of the book.
This book, however, had creatures that were beyond Odd. They are explained by the end, but I wasn't loving the explanation.
(view spoiler)[ Speaking to Stormy though the brain damaged children and Brother John using his brain to create, etc was a bit too much for me.
Also, I love Odd, but the Stormy talk was getting a bit depressing.
I look forward to reading the next book and seeing where Odd's journey takes him.
The third instalment of Odd and it seems that Koontz is running out of ideas which is a shame as there is a fourth one on the way.
Odd is now holed up in a monastery as he can’t deal with a ‘normal’ life any more.
I know you need to suspend belief a bit and allow for strange characters to aid plot etc but this monastery has ex-mafia, possible Russian spies and super rich uber-genius who is trying to discover/create quantum foam in his bunker like laboratory which has security that the CIA would be jealous of.
Fascinating, Quirky, Moving, Spooky, Dark, Engaging & Laugh Out Loud Funny! An Excellent Read! I Loved It!
I really enjoy this series of books by Koontz.
Yet I find that I still like the first book the best in the series.
I did like this one better than the second in the series.
I found the whole concept of Brother John creating things with his mind to be rather interesting and in thinking that the machine he made was like the God creation.
It was sad yet good to see that Elvis finally moved on and I found it interesting that Odd was just now able to see the ghost of animals as in the dog Boo. I look forward to reading more of the series and completing it.
He thwarts evil by placing his life at risk to save others.It comes as no surprise to me that the final volume of this series is going to be called Saint Odd. Just as the actual saints who populate history gave of themselves to better mankind, Odd Thomas is one of the most selfless characters that I have ever encountered in fiction.And it's a shame--because so many people are not selfless at all.
I love Odd Thomas.
In fact, I love that Dean Koontz loves Odd Thomas enough to write a third (and I'm guessing, soon a fourth) book about him.
So I may be a little biased in saying that BROTHER ODD is one of my favorite books of the year.
Odd has left Pico Mundo to join the nuns and brothers in a monastery.
This is another winner from Mr. Koontz, and the ending, of course, leaves it open for another book about the wonderful, amazing, flawed, and utterly lovable Odd Thomas.
4-4.5 starsThis was a really good addition to the Odd Thomas series.
Due to the tragedies that Odd has experienced, he felt a need (at the end of book #2) to get away from all who know him and gain quiet and solitude to heal.
Odd succeeds in his task and then moves on at the end.
I really enjoyed this addition to the series.
Odd is a great character and I truly enjoy joining him on his journey through his life.
I'd recommend this book and series.
It has the interesting setting of a monastery, as Odd goes to hides and recollect himself- of course, trouble follows him wherever he goes.
I picture the shadowy creatures from the movie "Ghost" (I just dated myself, I know.
Great movie though).
The story itself was decent, but what made it great for me was the cast of characters for this one.
Two in particular I just loved, and wish I could have more of them: Rodion Romanovich, who read like a Mafia librarian- he's amazing.
The other was Jacob-a boy at the monastery with amazing drawing skills who was born with a condition similar to Down Syndrome.
Personally, this is one of my favourite books of the series.
In fact it’s my second favourite after the first book.
In this we see Odd move away from his home introducing us to a new range of characters.
As with his hometown friends those Odd comes into contact with are all easily to fall in love with.
Moreover there are questionable people around this time, leaving you curious as to who is friend and who is foe – along with questioning exactly what is going on.As always you’ll be flickering between the emotions with this Odd book, rooting for Odd to come out on top.
More horror, less humor. For years this was my favorite one of the bunch because of the horror aspect. Then the fifth book came out and this one became a distant second. This time around I wasn't as crazy about it because there weren't that many quotable moments. Sigh. I really wanted to inflict many quotes on all of my buddies.Still, there's always Rodion Romanovich. The convos between those two are hilarious.
I found it comforting to find Odd Thomas in a monastery after the loss of Stormy. Thinking at first to escape but then actually there to help others, both living and dead, in his selfless way. I continue to be intrigued with him and look forward to the next chapter/book of his life.
Description: St. Bartholomew’s Abbey sits in majestic solitude amid the wild peaks of California’s high Sierra, a haven for children otherwise abandoned, and a sanctuary for those seeking insight. Odd Thomas has come here to learn to live fully again, and among the eccentric monks, their other guests, and the nuns and young students of the attached convent school, he has begun to find his way. The silent spirits of the dead who visited him in his earlier life are mercifully absent, save for the bell-ringing Brother Constantine and Odd’s steady companion, the King of Rock 'n' Roll.
More fun with Odd Thomas. Koontz is really hitting his groove with Odd's voice in this one and I can't wait to see what the next books add to this rich and funny character.
