https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6068551-shiver
I never passed a dog down the street and found that I couldn't be attracted to men because they just weren't going to cut it for me anymore.So, other than the fact that this book disturbed the fucking hell out of me, bored me to death and dragged on like a visit to the old folk's home, it was also poorly edited.
If I read one more paranormal, male hunk refuse the supposed love of his life, who is literally flinging her naked body onto him, then I think I'm going to start a convention...
Here's how I imagine Stiefvater's meeting with the publishing house.Stiefvater: I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a vampire!Publisher: Sorry, Maggie.
It's terrible!Stiefvater: Oh. I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a zombie!Publisher: Sorry, Maggie.
We'll take it!In what's becoming a distressing theme in young adult literature aimed at females, Stiefvater's Shiver follows a teenage girl who falls in love with a supernatural creature, and risks life and limb to be with him - oftentimes forgetting herself along the way.
I'm going to write my own teenage supernatural love story.
Am I missing something?Allow me to recount the story (for mood purposes, you need to know that the setting of this book is frigid, so, well, feel cold okay?) Moving on, Grace is 17 and in love with a golden eyed wolf that saved her when she was 11 and too weak and insipid to fight back for herself as wolves were attempting to consume her flesh.
Unable to think of anything but her love for a wild dog, Grace is forever seeking out her wolf, trying to catch a glimpse of him or possibly make friends with him a la White Fang, only in a romantic way.
A boring girl whose only personality traits are obsessing about her supernatural boyfriend, doing homework and cooking dinner for her parents - check; an emo supernatural boyfriend whose life revolves around his human flame, who plays an instrument and writes songs for his girl - check; a boy and a girl sleeping in the same bed night after night and no matter how much this girl asks for "it," the hero says "no," because it's not "right" - check; parents, who are oblivious to the fact that their daughter practically has a live-in boyfriend - check.
I expect if you love "Twilight," you'll like this book too.
Lovely, lyrical, and achingly sad.
Shiver is more introspective than most YA books and is sometimes criticized for being too slow or wordy, but I found it to be beautifully written, tragic, and a gorgeous take on werewolf lore.
It's a book that makes me cry every time I read it.Sam cupped my face in his hands and looked me in the eyes.
His eyes were yellow, sad, wolf, mine."These stay the same.
Remember that when you look at me.
Remember it's me.
Please."PS--this book is NOTHING like Twilight, despite the inevitable comparisons because of the subject matter.
I saw her, in a way I’d never seen anything before.And I stopped it.I really liked this one, I really did and considering the many negative reviews I read I can’t help but wonder if I’m truly that easy to please.
*lol* I guess the answer is “yes” because I definitely would read every single book Maggie ever wrote and if possible I’d even read her grocery list!
I mean yes we have the insta-love trope and it’s pretty strong in that one, but if you think about it Grace and Sam kinda knew each other for years.
I couldn't finish this book.
Actually not only is this book boring as hell but the audiobook was poorly cast (more on that later).
*kicking self, a lot* I have to admit the premise sounded interesting--not long before this book crossed my path I'd finished reading Blood and Chocolate, which is, overall, somewhat enjoyable even if it is a little weird--so I just had to read it.
Sam thinks like a woman.
It's because of the pissing scene that I stopped paying attention to the audio book.
I'm pissed.Speaking of the audio book: like I said earlier it was horribly cast.
Grace treats her friends, her parents, and her schoolmates like dirt.
I know that many girls are offended when their best friend ignores them to spend time with a guy.
Keep in mind that for the first 1/3rd of Shiver, Grace doesn't know that Sam is a werewolf.
He wanted to eat his true love the first time he saw her.
Trolls: You want to know the reason why Shiver gets compared to Twilight so frequently?
Jack's body is missing and the wolves attacked him.Isn't it reasonable to assume that Grace knows something?
Instead, Grace tries to keep her out of the know to protect her wolf.
I absolutely love ALL Stiefvater books and every time I reread I remember why.
Ajfkdslad.ALSO SAM IS THE SOFTEST AND I LOVE HIM TO DEATH.SAAAAAM.(And shout out to the food scenes, which I didn't pay attention to until this time.
Let's just say food is important here and I love love these scenes.)READ #2 || 2014 THIS IS A REREAD!
I read it first about, say, 2 years ago now...and I've just read Sinner, so I wanted to reread Shiver because I MISS LITTLE GRACE AND SAM AND ISABEL AND COLE.
(I'll be honest: mostly Isabel and Cole...but I do love Sam and Grace.) Second time round, my thoughts?
This is a different take on werewolves, and I really liked it.
Grace and Sam first meet when she is eleven, and attacked by his pack of wolves.
As a wolf, Sam doesn’t remember his human life.
The first time he meets Grace as a human, (he is 18, she is 17) she finds him shot and bleeding on her back deck.
Sam is running out of time because this is his last season as a human before he becomes a wolf for the rest of his life.
He doesn’t tell this to Grace at first, and he just wants to spend as much time with her as he can.
Not many authors can make you feel such pride at the very beginning of a novel!When can you say for sure that you’ve fallen in love with someone’s writing?
If your mind isn’t registering words at all, but sounds and colors and emotions so strong that you can feel them twirling inside of you, beautiful, agonizing and powerful....
Obviously not everyone feels the same way, and that’s ok.
I’m pretty sure Shiver will become my comfort book, familiar and soothing like the blanket I wrap myself in when I’m not feeling well.
I can sum this book up in one sentence: Beautiful writing that cannot make up for the Twilight-esque depiction of creepy love interest and boring main character.I would, however, happily try out some of the author's other work and I just hope it doesn't focus so heavily on obsessive emo teen love.
I guess I will start out with saying that this book drew me in from the moment I laid eyes upon it.
The book cover is breathtaking.
Even when I opened the first page of the book I was still taken back by how simple and beautiful it was.
Yet, I can not judge a book just by its cover.
I am not sure I can even find the words to describe how much I loved this book.
It probably is one of the best young adult couples I've ever had the pleasure of reading about.
This book wrapped me up in it's love!
If only this had been a short story about one girl’s creepy obsession with wolves, I think I could have really liked it.
Like, in first-person narratives, I have to create a background story in my mind for how the characters decided to write the book.
It just seems like such a douchey thing for a boyfriend and girlfriend to impose their sappy story in the world and think it’s a good idea.
That’s a petty complaint, but it’s true.There is a thing about evil parents in here that I like, though.
They were very villainous, but I think I like villainous, unreliable parents in stories.
And it's bad enough that Sam uses the word, but it's worse that Grace a) knows what it means, and b) doesn't think it's odd that he's using the word.3) " 'Did you tell that man you went potty on yourself?' "What teenager, male or female, would say "went potty"?
Grace is never fully described, making it hard to get a clear picture of what she looks like, and Beck isn't described until the very end despite being mentioned numerous times throughout the novel.
Most of the book is spent describing Sam and Grace's love which I had a hard time buying into because there was no build up.LyricsLastly, the song lyrics were really bad.
**1.5 stars** I'm just going to come right out and say it:This book is emo bullshit.
Maybe this was brought up after I stopped listening, but from the start of this book I wanted to smack all of the werewolves for not realizing this very, very simple solution.2) The insta-love.
He is a drippy, sappy mushball of a man-boy, and it was distracting to hear that in the face of trouble he would be more likely to recite a passage from his favorite poetry book than use his brain.4) The sexual tension.
It sounded like a 40 year old, which is disturbing in a YA book.
YOU BETTER RUN I don't know what kind of idea the author's trying to pull but trying to create a bold main character by saying she ain't afraid of wolves is pretty darn unimpressive to me.See, the normal human wouldn't stay at a house like that, much less live there.Unafraid.
Here's the thing...when I think of a yellow eyed wolf...I think of...a carnivorous, insane beast that hasn't eaten in days with white foam near his mouth and will chomp of her head in seconds if she comes close to him.But noooo, no no no, this girl will, and i mean WILL, come up to him, pet him like a dog, and then slowly fall in love.
Grace is overcome with a fiery need to protect them, especially her wolf, and find a way to stay with him forever.•	For some reason, I had a really uncomfortable time reading this book.
OMG I’m puking.•	Also, near to the end of the book, the plot takes this stupid turn, where the main characters search for a cure for werewolves to stop turning into wolves.
Most of the book takes place in winter, or at night, while the temperature is low, so Sam and other werewolves are usually inside – rooms, cars, and the like.
“The world needs more love at first sight.”When I first read this (years and years ago) I totally fell in love with Maggie Stiefvater.
I don't know what did it for me, but this just made me feel good.
It's a perfect snuggle-up-on-a-rainy-autumn-day book.The plot wasn't overly exciting, but I think it was the writing and the characters that I enjoyed (especially Isabel).This series is so completely different from The Raven Boys .
You can clearly see how much experience and skill Maggie gained through the years of writing, but nevertheless, Shiver definitely has her Siefvater magic.Find more of my books on Instagram
Shiver is narrated by the alternating points of view of Sam and Grace, two unbelievably different people drawn together by the power of love and devotion.
When Grace was little, she was attacked by a pack of wolves but miraculously survived due to a certain yellow-eyed wolf's protection.
However, it was he that saved Grace from the onslaught of the pack, he is her yellow-eyed wolf.
The story might have dragged a little bit in the beginning, but by the middle of the book all the werewolf phenomenon and Grace and Sam's relationship had me hooked.
The meat of the plot is simply Sam and Grace constantly fighting this physical transformation that is hell-bent on keeping them apart and stealing Sam's humanity.The only complexity in Shiver is the mystery behind what makes the humans turn into wolves - Stiefvater leaves the old-fashioned lore to the dogs and creates her own mythology — I, personally, have never read any "werewolf" story like Stiefvater's, and that's a large portion of why I love this series so much.
To be frank, reading Shiver was like labor outside on a hot day, with beads of sweat stinging my eyes, and a strong urge to just give up and quit.
I like to be interested in what I’m reading and Maggie lacked the skill of capturing my attention.As for this author Maggie, I can say she was a stingy girl when it came to sharing details.
Does she not know readers like to be absorbed in what they read?
He talked like an old lady, not a hunky 17, 18, 19 year old guy I'd want to know.
I went in expecting an eerie, bittersweet love story and that's exactly what I got.
Shiver is told from alternating viewpoints, and you will easily fall in love with the characters of Grace and Sam. The writing is lyrical, the descriptions are breathtaking, and you can acutely feel the longing between the two teens, and their desperate struggle to keep Sam from changing.
The ending was pitch perfect, and left me with a deep feeling of satisfaction.
Amazing book.
Amazing author.
Will definately be putting Shiver on my "favorite books of all time" shelf.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThere's an old joke about TWILIGHT that you've probably heard: that it's the story of a teenage girl's struggle between necrophilia and bestiality, hurr hurr hurr. Well, here in TWILIGHT: Team Jacob Edition - *cough* - I mean, SHIVER, Maggie Stiefvater takes that a step further by writing about a girl named Grace who has romantic feelings for the wolf in her backyard. And when I say "wolf," that's not short for werewolf - before she even fi
She also won't ever shut up about wolves, and chats to her two friends about wolves constantly, and then is puzzled and irritated when they want to talk about other things that aren't wolves.I might be the only person on the continental U.S. who hated THE RAVEN BOYS, but people kept telling me to give this author another chance, and I thought, "Well, okay, I did like TWILIGHT, and Jacob was cool, so maybe this will be okay." Superficially, it's a lot like TWILIGHT - it features a heroine who is wise beyond her years with absent-minded parents who she takes care of more than they take care of her; it features a supernatural love interest who likes the way the heroine smells and must fight against his nature in order to be with her, even if it results in his own death; it features an evil werewolf who is jealous of what the heroine represents and who decides to hunt, stalk, and attempt to kill her -You can see where I'm going with this.But comparing SHIVER to TWILIGHT is like comparing NIKE to ADIDAS or COKE to PEPSI or CHOCOLATE to VANILLA - there is only one clear winner.
“What do you eat?""Baby bunnies." She narrowed her eyes, so I grinned and said, "Adult bunnies, too. I'm an equal-opportunity bunny-eater.”  I tried...I really had high hopes for Shiver.This is the story of Grace and Sam,and how Sam tries to stay human for their love.It was cute but there was nothing interesting about the topic. The book was kind of boring. I turned every page with hope of action but, nope... I liked the characters. Grace was tolarable and Sam was cute. I adored the way Sam lov
I tried...I really had high hopes for Shiver.This is the story of Grace and Sam,and how Sam tries to stay human for their love.It was cute but there was nothing interesting about the topic.
Grace was tolarable and Sam was cute.
I adored the way Sam loved Grace.
But the book was unnecessarily long even for his cuteness.Well, I also liked the writing style.
The book was beautifully written, felt like poetry sometimes.I still had higher expectations.If I'd read this book when I was 12 or so I'd probably love it more.
I don't know if I'll read the second book at all.
This book is so gorgeous in the writing, and like poetry, but more readable than poetry, because it's prose.Do you like reading about soulmates?
It doesn't matter that Sam is a werewolf, and that Grace is a human girl.
Sam hated being a werewolf, but he loved his pack.
If that child isn't loved or nurtured by her family, that's neglect to me.
I loved the wolf that Sam was.
I loved the young man that Sam was.
Because cold was the adversary for Grace and Sam's love.
This book is focused on the love relationship between Sam and Grace.
But thanks to many, many trusted reviews that I've read, I'm more inclined to believe this is one of those overly-hyped books that'll only leave room for disappointment and I'm certainly not willing to dive into that right now.Maybe next year, when the holidays come around and I've got all the free time in the world to waste away...But now that I think about it, I really shouldn't bother then either.
You see, there's this one review I came across which completely shunned the book and it's creeptastic romance, and provided a most interesting quote to go along with it too.
Shiver is AMAZING!!!I brought this book at least 4 months or more ago and it just sat on my book shelve...Until i picked it up 2 days ago and then i couldn't put it down!!This has to be the best Y/A book i have read in ages,from the first page i was sucked into their wonderful story.
Grace and Sam are AWESOME!!Their story told by both of them was perfect,i am so in love with Sam he was so Sweet,Caring and Sexy but i felt like he was real and i was right there with in the story...
I can not wait to read Linger it is going to so good!!!
As the years pass, it takes more and more heat to trigger the change back to human, until one year the werewolf remains a wolf forever.Our heroine, Grace, was attacked by wolves as a child.
Their budding relationship is marred by one tragic truth: This is almost certainly Sam's last year as a human.Like Deirdre, the heroine of Lament, Grace is more "real" and well-rounded than many of the girls who populate YA paranormal romance.
The relationship between Grace and Sam is also refreshingly "real." They don't just fall in love because of the weird metaphysics that surround them.
Where Fitzpatrick and Adornetto stumbled and fell into their own gook-like feces upon broadening their mind’s eye, Stiefvater was able to create a significant atmosphere on occasion, but these times were seldom.Shiver tells the tale of a female organism, Grace, falling for a canis lupus, or gray wolf, named Sam. This yellow-eyed wolfy-poo was hers and her alone.
