https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150739.Dealing_with_Dragons
"He doesn't seem very impressed," Cimorene commented in some amusement."Why should he be?" Kazul said."Well, you're a dragon," Cimorene answered, a little taken aback."What difference does that make to a cat?" Before Harry Potter, there was Princess Cimorene, a dragon named Kazul, and the Enchanted Forest. I am no longer a 11-year old girl. I am a grown-ass woman, and I still love this book as much as I did the first time I read it.Share this book with your sisters, your daughters, your nieces.
Before Harry Potter, there was Princess Cimorene, a dragon named Kazul, and the Enchanted Forest.
There is a Prince Charming who, frankly, bores the living crap out of our intrepid young Princess Cimorene.
Using her wits, Cimorene talks her way into being a dragon's princess.
There is a potential threat to the dragons for whom Cimorene has come to care deeply.The Setting, the Plot, All That Good Stuff: This is a very short book, and there is not a single dull moment.
The setting is magical, but it is not exceedingly detailed, just enough to build up the imagination.The Main Character: Cimorene and her dragon are the stars of this book, and they make me love it.
So there!"Q:She had always been more interested in what the knights and dragons were supposed to say than in memorizing the places where she was supposed to scream.Q:"The fencing lessons were just the beginning," Cimorene assured him."So you see why I'm perfectly happy being a dragon's princess."Q:"But what does a dragon want with a crepe pan?"Q:There were two knights the following day, and four more the day after that.On the fourth day there was only one, but he was exceptionally stubborn…Q:"Aren't you a little slow?" she asked irritably.
So now I am actually happy that they haven't, no need to ruin THE BEST MIDDLE GRADE FANTASY EVER!
Can you tell that I am a fan?To not make this review too long (as I would like to review the whole series on my blog sometime) I will just say that Cimorene is the best female character ever invented.
This book was first published in 1990 and since then there were many great female role models, but comparing to Cimorene, they all are trying a little too hard.
Because the world needs more Cimorenes.My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
If you think you know what a princess story is, think again.There's a magic to this series I haven't experienced since reading Harry Potter.
Plus it's a mystery in which the prime suspects are a dragon with bad wizard allergies and a prince made of stone.
She's a princess that's had it with the pampered life and runs off to do some dirty work and be a servant to a dragon.
She proves she's more than that when she unravels a mystery and saves the dragons from their conniving foes in the nick of time.The way the author constantly plays with this theme of transcending societal expectations is freaking awesome.
My daughter read them when she was at the point where reading changes from being work to being fun.
So it was one of the first "serious" books (> 100 pages and no pictures) that she read on her own for pleasure.
Then she read this book out loud to me.The story is told from the point of view of Princess Cimorene.
Unlike other captured princesses, who lament their situation and wait to be rescued by young knights they can then marry, Cimorene befriends her dragon and refuses to be rescued.
The plot thickens when some oily wizards show up...The character of Cimorene is engaging.
I would place this book somewhere between The Ordinary Princess and the Harry Potter series in terms of complexity of plot, age appropriateness and the amount of fun I had reading it.
I really enjoyed reading this book and likely would have given it 5 stars if I had read it at a younger age (say at the age of 8 years or so).
As it is, after Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings, it's hard to give this book 5 stars.
Throw in the requisite witches and wizards and an underlying conspiracy and you end up with this very enjoyable book.
[5.0 Stars] Re-Read 2016I adore this book. I always will! It was one of my favorites series growing up and still is to this day! I implore you all to check it out!
Yes you have princess's and prince's and yes you have dragons and wizards and magic but it's not exactly like the common tale of where the prince slays the dragon with the wizard to help him act clever to save the damsel in distress and or princess.
No no it's more of the princess becomes friends with a dragon and when a prince comes and saves her she tells them to go away.Sick and tired of hearing about the heroic charming prince.
Then read this book.Plus its an easy read and be prepared for full of smiles and laughs.
I picked up this book after seeing it featured in A Mighty Girl's excellent list of kick-ass Princess books, and thought it might make a good Christmas gift for a fantasy-loving little sister.
"But I need to know what happens next!"Sorry, Sis, you'll have to wait 'til Christmas.** Update 12/26/14She loved it.Upon tearing open the wrapping and seeing it, Sis actually shouted "I LOVE this book!" (despite having only read the first chapter and a bit) and wanted to sit down and read it then and there.
I found this book at the library and I was so excited because I read it a couple of times when I was younger, in 4th or 5th grade I think.
So it's a kid's book but it is so much fun.
Great fantasy and tons of humor.
Funny story related to this book.
Well, she and I happened to have some little plastic toy dragons and wizards and we'd use them to act out this book.
We gave them all the right names and our biggest dragon was Kazul.
Great book!
How will you describe a book which entertains you in every chapter? Well, this will be my first review about that kind of book. MY FEELINGS FOR THIS BOOK Before Reading This Book:I was unaware of dragons, wizards, witches, giants and jinns (I think I am still unaware of giants and jinns but not anymore after reading the whole series) So, it's obvious I didn't know how they look like Or what are their abilities?After Reading This Book: I thought "I chose to read books and I didn't even know any m
Don't open any spoiler if you are looking forward to read this book OR you don't want any revelation!**
But in a good way.I have one issue with this character: (view spoiler)[ She began to live with dragons and she didn't even miss her family.
That didn't sound natural to me (hide spoiler)]KazulBio:--This character is a dragon.My feelings:--I liked this character almost as much as I liked Cimorene.
He is written as a very clever as well as an evil-minded wizard and I like clever + evil-minded characters in books.
The main character of this book is a role model for young girls, not someone waiting for her Prince to come save her, but someone who goes out and gets what she needs/wants for herself and along the way makes herself not only useful, but invaluable to those around her.
The story is certainly one where I feel like many young girls would love to read it, and would be inspired and excited by the heroine they met.
Overall, this is a light, quick but very wonderful read and it's the start to a series I certainly want to carry on with very soon.
Cimorene is not a proper princess.
She's been told that they like to keep princesses, and she thinks that this is one princessly thing that she could possibly do.This was charming, but light on substance.
Also, I was annoyed that the only way that Cimorene could do anything awesome was to break out of the fairy tale role.
Fairy tale maidens do awesome things all the time.
They climb mountains of glass and fall down wells into alternate kingdoms and push witches into ovens and endure silence for seven years; they're not vapid creatures who do what's expected of them.Basically, I enjoyed this book, but in a mild way.
This book was simply delightful, with enchanting characters of different kinds and lots of good witty humor, hinting to many classic fairy tales, but with twisted meanings. Here's a little example:  “The rest of my classmates are already making names for themselves. George started killing dragons right away, and Art went straight home and pulled some sort of magic sword out of a rock. Even the ones nobody expected to amount to much have done something. All Jack wanted to do was go back to his mo
This book was simply delightful, with enchanting characters of different kinds and lots of good witty humor, hinting to many classic fairy tales, but with twisted meanings.
George started killing dragons right away, and Art went straight home and pulled some sort of magic sword out of a rock.
All Jack wanted to do was go back to his mother’s farm and raise beans, and he ended up stealing a magic harp and killing a giant and all sorts of things.
I think this book can be even more enjoyable for adults than for kids, I totally recommend it.
I'm re-reading this fantastic series that I fell in love when I was a kid. It's a great story about a princess who thinks being a princess is incredibly boring. Etiquette and dancing lessons all day? She would much rather learn fencing or magic, thank you very much! But that just isn't done. So she runs away and volunteers to become a dragon's princess (A vocation which is usually only acquired when one is captured by a dragon). This book has a great female protagonist, lots of humor, and puts a definite spin on traditional fairy tales.
Además de que sea un libro divertidísimo, original, lleno de humor inocente y bastante irreverente con los cuentos de hadas, Cimorene es realmente mi tipo de princesa.Basta de damicelas débiles que esperan ser rescatadas.
Las verdaderas aventuras comienzan una vez que se vuelve oficialmente la princesa de la dragona Kazul (que es genial y por momentos bastante maternal) y tiene que lidiar con los problemas cotidianos de la vida de los dragones, su amistad con una bruja y los caballeros que insisten en querer rescatarla aunque ella pidió muy claro que la dejen en paz.
This is my second time or third time around with this book, I hadn't read it in years. The first time I read it I was a teenager and enjoyed and as an adult I love it just as much. It is a really fast read, I would highly recommend Dealing with Dragons to anyone who loves fantasy. It has lots of adventure, lots of dragons and a sassy princess who takes her fate into her own hands.

This time I read the blurb but it doesn’t so much as give a hint as to how wonderful this book really is.It’s set in a world filled with all sorts of fairytale elements; there are princesses, dragons, knights, wizards, dwarves, fairy godmothers, fairies, giants, jinns and many more.
She finds her usual princess routine with the boring etiquette lessons and embroidery lessons extremely off putting and loves doing things which her parents repeatedly deem inappropriate for a princess like fencing, learning magic, Latin and cooking.
There was no love interest.I took pleasure in every second of reading Dealing With Dragons and am more than happy to know that there are 3 more books in this series!

Jak zvláštní, že čím jsem starší, tím víc oceňuji ..
pohádkové příběhy.
Mají svoje kouzlo.To nepopřete.Cimorene je nejlepší princezna všech dob.Proč?Dělá, co princezny nedělají.Ovládá základy latiny, kouzel, rytířského umění a dokáže připravit delikátní horké maliny.
Ale zato absolutně nesnáší naduté prince, lekce vyšívání a etiketu.
Je to nuda.
Chápu.Princezna dobrovolně v dračích službách?SKANDÁL!Jsem si jistá, že kdyby v Linderwallu měli Blesk, její extra nevhodné chování by se tam objevovalo tak často jako Iveta Bartošová v tom našem.Patricia C.
Wrede dokázala napsat příběh POUTAVÝ jako prase, který vás ORAVDU chytne a nepustí.
This is a childhood favourite that was desperately in need of a reread.
Although I remembered loving it as a child, I couldn't remember much besides the bare bones of the plot and that Cimorene was the coolest princess of all time.
Having reread the book, I can confirm that Cimorene remains the coolest princess of all time.
A princess who saves herself with intelligence, humour, and not a little bit of elbow grease is still something missing from so much fantasy.
I'm looking forward to rereading the rest of the series and reacquainting myself with one of my childhood hero(ine)s.
Macky recommended this one to me, and it was a winner! I loved how Wrede turned the typical fairy tale tropes on their heads, especially in the form of main character Cimorene (who I absolutely loved).
This reread, I kept thinking of Melissa's comments about Raisa and femininity in her review of The Demon King.And yet is Dealing with Dragons really a rejection of traditional femininity?
But the idea of running away from that traditional "marry a king, live simperingly ever after" has certainly become much more entrenched in our identify-a-powerful-woman consciousness, and I suppose that's what brought Melissa's comments to mind.There's a certain narrow-mindedness at play, though, with regard to the now-typical rejection of princess life as shallow and vapid and stupid - a lack of appreciation for having food on the table, for being warm and safe and comfortable.
I needed a palate cleanser and just a general "feel good book" after reading Sunshine.
There tends to be a lot of hidden gems in this category and to me, this book was one of them.Cimorene is a princess who doesn't meet the standard princess personality quota.
Luckily, there are dragons in need of princesses and Cimorene finds one that happens to want a princess.
Together Cimorene and Kazul (female dragon) make a formidable team as they defy the typical female standards and fight their enemies.There is plenty of magic, evil wizards, princesses, Prince Charmings and even a friendly witch to make this a good fantasy adventure for kids.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Princess Cimorene is tired of embroidery, etiquette, and protocol classes.
But, that's just "not done." So to avoid a betrothal to a handsome and charming (but not particularly bright) prince, she runs away to become housekeeper for a dragon.
As a dragon's princess, Cimorene gets the freedom to cook and clean and to organize libraries and treasure rooms.
Wrede's Dealing with Dragons is a refreshing change from some of the more recent fantasy epics aimed at teenage girls.
The dialogue is particularly good.I listened to Dealing With Dragons on audiobook.
Read more Patricia Wrede book reviews at Fantasy literature.
It was also delightful to see how the lessons like cooking and etiquette she was forced to take to become a 'proper' princess come in handy on so many occasions later on and see Cimorene quietly be thankful for her parents, she is a bit handful and unconventional as a princess, but she is certainly fit for a princess for dragons.
As there are so many of them, I did have a bit of a hard time connecting their names and their characteristics (I had to make a note on that), but once I got it down pat, I totally enjoyed Cimorene's interactions with Kazul, a dragon she serves for.
I'll never forget my first time reading this book and the love that sprung up right away.
Since then I have read this book at least 20 times.
And I will continue to read it (along with the rest of the books in the series) every year.
I would recommend this book to people who love and know fairytales.
It was written (along with books 2 and 3) as a prequel to book 4, Talking to Dragons.This book is written in 3rd person but through Cimorene's eyes.
The only thoughts you see in the book are Cimorene's and you only see what she sees.
The familiar notes of mythology and fairy tales appear again and again in literature, but in those books that start with a familiar structure and then leap into unexpected there’s something special to be found.That’s what I thought as I sped my way through Dealing With Dragons a local favorite here in Minnesota, and one that my wife Kristina loved when she was young.
But this is not simply a childhood favorite, it’s a genuinely pleasurable read–especially when it takes something familiar and fills it with something unique.The feminist princess is a newer invention, but in Patricia Wrede’s hands it feels fresh (perhaps because, in the ’80s it was).
I wish I'd found out about this book years ago! Dealing With Dragons was a very fun read, and if it isn't a classic yet, it ought to be. I quite enjoyed following Cimorene in her interactions with dragons, wizards, and unwelcome rescuers- particularly as Cimorene, unlike many similar characters in more modern books, isn't rebellious, only practical and possessing a good deal more common sense than a great many of the people around her. And the story contains more than enough bits that'll make anyone- well, perhaps not laugh out loud, but certainly grin and giggle.
