https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6947803-edna-st-vincent-millay

Edna St. Vincent MillayIt's hard to avoid superlatives.Edna St. Vincent Millay is without any doubts one of America's greatest poets. Everyone should read her poetry...even people who don't read poetry will enjoy Millay. Everyman's Pocket PoetsI have a few of Everyman's Pocket Poets collections. Rabbie Burns, Edgar Allen Poe, Yeats and of course Edna St. Vincent Millay. I love them. They are proper pocket editions (smaller than a Kindle) that you can take with you anywhere and they are attractive. They're kind of perfect.
Excellent selection of Millay's poetry.Here's one of her quotes that I relate to: "I love humanity; but I hate people."And one of her poems:SorrowSorrow like a ceaseless rainBeats upon my heart.People twist and scream in pain, -Dawn will find them still again;This has neither wax nor wane,Neither stop nor start.People dress and go to town;I sit in my char.All my thoughts are slow and brown:Standing up or sitting downLittle matters, or what gownOr what shoes I wear.
I walked past Millay's house in Greenwich Village over the summer, and diligently read the plaque, but forgot to then go read anything of hers. Remedying that in a Barnes & Noble, I was encouraged by an enthusiastic clerk, who said Millay is one of her favorite poets. I can see why, and will be finding more of her work in the future.She also appears to have translated an edition of Baudelaire's Flowers of Evil, and that intrigues me.
When a note is played and a nearby object reflects or vibrates the sound, we call it resonance. When I read the poetry of Edna St. Vincent Millay, I can feel my soul hum along.
I Dreamed I Moved Among The Elysian FieldsI dreamed I moved among the Elysian fields,In converse wit
Amongst my favourite poetry ever.
My heart is what it was before,A house where people come and go.
Possibly one of the greatest American poets who is tragically under rated. Millay is powerful and full of moving stanzas, that play off one another in insightful, beautiful ways.
A perfect compilation of Edna St Vincent Millay's best poems, which are beguiling and beautiful.
Read the poetry before you read the introduction. The intro will ruin it.
This biography was my introduction to Millay, who is now one of my favorite writers.The biography is quite an accomplishment, considering Milford had to reconstruct Millay's life under the eye of Norma, Millay's sister and guardian of all of Millay's papers.
Though I would caution readers to remember that much of what Milford had to work with was filtered by Millay's sister Norma (who, at best, had a highly fallible memory and, at worst had an agenda), nevertheless, I am grateful for this first look at the life of Edna St Vincent Millay.I
The Everyman’s Library Pocket Poets collection has a special place in my heart, and this collection //Edna St. Vincent Millay Poems// demonstrates all the reasons why.
Thus one is spared lengthy biographical details of Millay (rich and ribald though it may be), and may focus on her work.
Also included with the poems is one of her plays and though far from her complete works, those included are well chosen.
Millay’s poetry, rhythmic, naturalistic, and enchantingly sparse continues to demonstrate why she stands as one of America’s greatest poets, and this book for the right reader will surely be a treasured companion for years to come.
Originally published in 1927.) Along with Plath, Millay is another author that I've taken far too long to read.
She weaves themes of death and loss and longing into the core of her work.
Millay utilizes myth and lore, expanding her own grief into the existing characters of ageless storytelling.
The simplicity of her sonnets and stanzas is overpowering at times, for if anyone has tried to write a poem, they know the balance between effective storytelling and artistic license is difficult to achieve.
Of these poems, some of my favourites include Renascence, the Blue-Flag in the Bog, and Mariposa.
This is a nice little collection of her work, ranging from sad verses attempting to capture the nightmare of a friend’s death to the wonders of nature.
Her descriptions are heartfelt and sincere, allowing the reader to pause and ponder for a moment the wonder of the world in which she lived.
Even now, her work lingers on in my memory, at times leaving me giddy with sudden happiness, melancholy and downtrodden or so inspired that no mere words can capture the free essence of my being.
This is a worthy collection for anyone’s permanent library.
This was so hit and miss that it really should have been three stars. Some of it did read a bit too hysterically. But the hits ('Here is a would that will never heal, I know'; Aria de Capo; and of course the ever famous 'First Fig' being among them) were so sublime it's a tragedy to give the overall work anything less than four stars.
Will forever be in love with this fantastic person, as she has given me the love for poetry, and the absolute need to exist in a beautiful world. She was, so many years ago, a rite of passage in my life.
Millay can be a little melodramatic at times but when she gets it right,  she gets it right . Her sonnets are where she really excels and selections like "I know I am but summer to your heart" and "I think I should have loved you presently" really hit home.
Vincent is perfect.“The pathos of your love, that, like a flower,fearful of death yet amorous of sleep,droops for a moment and beholds, dismayed,the wind whereon its petals shall be laid.”
I was given this as a gift , and what a wonderful gift it was. This is a great collection of poems/sonnets containing popular poems such as Afternoon on a hill and City Trees. A wonderful book and a must read for any fans of this author/poet.
Millay definitely has a lot of sass compared to other poets I have read. I like her spunk my favorite though remains first and second fig. They are short but straight to the heart of very complex matters.
Fantastic poems, some might find a bit gloomy, but I think they are quite wonderful. Also a brilliant one-act play at the end which I would love to see.
Same as the last. Poetry was awesome, but not as awesome as hoping.
She wrote brilliantly. I can feel her words.
One of my favorite poets. So different in her observations from the norm.
