https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835433.Pomfret_Towers
I read Thirkell because of passages like this one:"There's Chloe," said Sally, as a scratching and whining which had been going on ever since the dogs left the room was succeeded by several loud flaps against the door.
She has taught herself to knock on the door with her tail.
Come in, angel." She opened the door to the lurcher, who entered with a smile and stood waving her tail fatuously, then came straight up to Alice, put her forepaws on her lap and breathed affection into her face."No other author I can think of would have a dog waving its tail fatuously.
A nice cozy way to end the year - at a house party at Pomfret Towers in the late 1930's British countryside. Thirkell's Barsetshire books are perfect for reading with a cup of tea under a comfy blanket during a snow storm.
Pure escapism.I just love Angela Thirkell and especially this book.It is lively,witty and deliciously entertaining.Pomfret Towers is the setting for a grand house party.Whose hand will Mr Foster seek in marriage and who will win Alice's heart?
In Pomfret Towers we have another lovely slice of 1930’s silliness, I loved it.Unashamedly cosy alert! Angela Thirkell’s Barsetshire novels are beloved of many readers, for their humour and charm, Virago have been re-issuing them a few at a time, with these rather delicious looking covers. I now have the next three waiting for me, as I felt I needed them to look forward to.Full review: http://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/0...
2.75 stars?Mrs. Barton, the absentminded author of historical works and mother of two young adult children is often away from home and absorbed in her work.
At Pomfret Towers Alice meets Phoebe Rivers, a sort of cousin to Lord Pomfret and also a daughter of a literary mother.
Alice also the acquaintance of the nice Mrs. Foster and Phoebe's Byronic artist brother Julian.
I felt like she needed to put herself out there and socialize more so she wouldn't be so shy.
He's shy and timid like Alice but he wants to be more social.
Прелесть какой роман. Половину можно растащить на цитаты. Не Толстой, правда -- ну и слава Богу.
Especially if the earl is a crusty old man with a kind but depressed wife, and his guests include his conceited cousin who writes romance novels for middle-aged women, her long-suffering publisher, and her two passive-aggressive children, plus several other young people in various states of being in or out of love?This is the book that got me hooked on Angela Thirkell.
It contains what I think is one of the funniest paragraphs ever written:(watch out, I'm going to quote it now and spoil the surprise)(scene: at dinner, the meeting between a painfully shy young lady and a self-centered young man)"You're Miss Barton, aren't you?" he asked, looking intently at her.On hearing these remarkable words Alice at once fell in love.
Set in the 1930s world that vanished with World War II, Pomfret Towers takes place in the eponymous Big House owned by Lord and Lady Pomfret.
In short order, Alice is introduced to three possible suitors: Giles Foster, heir but one to the estate; Julian Rivers, a pretentious but very good looking artist; and Roddy Wicklow, her comfortable childhood friend.
There's not even a hint of war brewing up, although the Pomfrets are haunted by the loss of their only son in WWI.
There are some wonderfully absurd characters - particularly Mrs. Rivers and her son - but they are all pretty harmless.
It was written in the 1930s and it's about one of those house parties rich British people always seem to be having, but there's lots of interesting class stuff and some sly looks at the author/publishing types.
There are some annoying people but no one is a villain, most of the characters are nice, and there are some super funny moments.
I was just delighted the whole time I read this--Thirkell's writing really carries you along.
I can't wait to read more books by her.
While reading it, I have been watching the very dramatic and emotional (to me anyway) final season of Downton Abbey, so I feel I might be a bit unfair to this story. Three stars seem lukewarm, but I can't find a fourth one in my heart. That said, it's been quite enjoyable, well written and authentic, charming and funny. It was clear quite soon who would end up with whom, and everybody got what they deserved. Not too memorable, there are better Barsetshire stories - and worse ones, too.
This has to be my favourite Angela Thirkell so far - timid Alice is persuaded to attend a weekend house party at the eponymous Pomfret Towers where the kindness of other guests helps her begin to emerge from the shyness that cripples her. The characters in this book are all delightful - or in the case of Mrs Rivers and her son, perfectly ghastly! Apparently Mrs Rivers is a cutting caricature of the author, Ann Bridges - what she'd done to offend Angela Thirkell, heaven knows! (Bookshelved)
I can thank Barbara Pym for finding out about Angela Thirkell's existence. She is so funny! And, since she's not bothered by reality, she's not depressing. Reading many books like this in a row would probably be annoying, but one every now and then is great! I hope, though, I will not buy all the books in the series in the next year. One does not absolutely need to have them all. I hope.
3.5 stars
Alice Barton is shy, and when she is invited to a weekend party at Pomfret Towers, she is filled with dread and dismay!"Would people be in the green drawing-room where they had assembled last night, or in the yellow drawing-room where they had played that dreadful game after dinner, or in the library, or in one of the other rooms that she hadn't yet seen?
Enter Phoebe Rivers, who immediately (and kindly) befriends her, rescues her from dealing with unknown servants, and introduces her to all of the quirks and vagaries of a society weekend.Thirkell's characterization if both humorous and creative!"It was Mr. Johns's practice, whenever he went away to a strange house, to have a telegram sent to him every day from his office, containing the words 'Return if possible urgent'.
A timid woman finds herself starting to come out of her shell when she meets a sulky spoiled man proclaiming to be an artist.
Throw into the mix, an ever patient and efficient secretary to Lady Pomfret, an archdeacon, a brother and sister of more humble origins, an illustrious author of historical research, Lord Pomfret, a cantankerous aristocrat, and staff who see and hear more than they are noticed, and you have a wonderful cast of characters to make up this delightful jolly gem of a read.Perfect for a gloomy rainy afternoon.
Barsetshire, the county created by Trollope, is continued by Angela Thirkell in 'Pomfret Towers' whe
My favorite Thirkell novel yet. I love stories of weekend parties at country houses (Gosford Park, anyone?), and this one was simply splendid. Light and funny, but also terribly clever. Such a satisfying read! (Be sure to get the Virago edition, not the one pictured here.)
This particular book only available at Rochester Public Library.Several of this authors other books are available thru mcl.No ebooks for any of her books.
Amusing and genteel.
*4.5*Reading this book was like watching my favourite romantic/screwball comedies rom the 30s. I absolutely adored this book!
I have now read everything by Angela Thirkell in the "Barsetshire series" that I can find on Kindle.David Byrne and Jerry Harrison wrote this: "Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens."That's why I enjoy these novels.
The indefatigable Mrs. Rivers pushes her reluctant daughter, Phoebe, and, while fending off the most likely competition, self-effacing Alice Barton, she is completely outflanked by Sally Wicklow.
Thwarting Mrs. Rivers occupies a good part of the weekend until her even more obnoxious son, Julian, humiliates her so publicly that even gentle Alice (who had been infatuated with him) scathingly rebukes his boorish behavior, sends him packing, and accepts Roddy Wicklow's proposal.
Alice Barton is terrified when she is invited to a weekend party by Lord Pomfret.
If her brother and her sole friends Roddy Wicklow and his sister Sally weren't going too, Alice would have shut herself up in her studio and shivered for days at the very thought.
While Alice's story garners a lot of our sympathy, the stories of Sally and the heir to Pomfret, and the children of obnoxious author Mrs Rivers, have the most energy and momentum.
It is easy to see why this is the book that started the momentum of Thirkell's career.
I love this author, she's one of my favorites.
I love her tongue-in-cheek narration, her characters, likely and unlikely; and the time period she writes about.
The stories are predictable, and happily-ever-after endings abound.
I like the way all the novels follow the same families through the years.
These books are easy reads, and always amusing.
The physical setting is the same as Anthony Trollope's Barsetshire novels, and Thirkell utilizes some of the events in those novels as backstory, and some of the characters as ancestors of her characters.
Thirkell was Kipling's cousin, and Colin MacInnes' mom...lots of literary genes in that family!
Valutazione 3,5 stelline.Deliziosamente british questo romanzo della Thirkell, autrice praticamente sconosciuta in Italia che ambienta le sue storie ricche di humor in una contea inventata da Trollope, il Barsetshire, intorno agli anni trenta.Lettura rilassante, piacevole, arguta, a tratti esilarante. L'autrice, grazie ad uno stile narrativo elegante, dipinge un quadro di vita inglese, di abitudini, di riti, di situazioni tragicomiche, di personaggi pittoreschi appartenenti ad un ceto medio-alto che ancora godeva di certi privilegi e lussi...
This was the third book in Angela Thirkell's Barsetshire series that I have read. I had previously read and enjoyed High Rising and then failed to finish Wild Strawberries. This was back to the standards of High Rising. The characters may be privileged, rich and live improbable lives but it is a safe secure world. I liked the characters and enjoyed the romances. References to some High Rising characters start to enlarge the Barsetshire world.
I bought this as I saw a review (silly me for trusting reviews) that is was a similar to Barbara Pym and Nancy Mitford. There is not a frustrated spinster in sight (so not Pymesque) and it has none of the wit and sparkle of Mitford. However, it is a perfectly charming example of mid 30s aspirational fiction. It's a bit like watching Nova Pilbeam act, it's another rather earnest and charming world. Enjoyable but a bit predictable.
Giles Pomfret as a young man, not yet overworked. Roddy Wicklow (he never did change). Julian Rivers and Mrs. Rivers at their most ridiculously annoying. And Sally. Alice here takes center stage, which she will (as far as I know) never do again... and we see her worrying about growing up in a way different from Anne, or Emmy, or any one of the other girls in Thirkell, though she is shy like them. Perhaps most like Lydia, but less heedless.
I own most of the "other" Barsetshire Chronicles. I've read this one before at least once but was looking for something relaxing. Very funny and entertaining. The towns in Barsetshire are ones like Pomfret Madrigal, High Rising, Winter Overcoates, Worsted, Little Misfit.I recommend the whole series.See review at International Herald Tribune Review
I didn't enjoy this as much as the other Thirkells I've read. Alice was just an annoying character; her wimpishness was already getting on my nerves after only 50 or so pages, and she hadn't grown on me by the end of the book. But other than that it has all the hallmarks of sharp social humour that make Thirkell fun to read -- I especially liked Sally, and enjoyed the battle between the noxious Mrs Rivers and the hapless Mr Johns.
This is my favourite Thirkell so far. It's almost a romance novel, if romance novels took the viewpoint of an affectionate but realistic narrator who knew what idiots young people can be (for no other reason than being young). Would give my eyeteeth, whichever ones those are, to have Mrs. Rivers' books to read.
