https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16131077-the-shining-girls
SQUEEE! this book is going to end up being the "it" book of the summer, and probably beyond, because some of you are slow to catch on, and it deserves a longer "it" cycle.it is about a time traveling serial killer.which sounds like drunken-mad-libs, but it works. time travel (the idea of time travel) frequently either makes my head hurt, or is just too silly for me to care aboutbut this one is different. the time travel is never given any scientific justification - it just is and you accept it o
hunter, hunted, and magic house in a chronological tangle that works perfectly.in a way, it reminded me of life after life, because as each shining girl is introduced, you can't help but feel a character-attachment to them even though you know what is coming, just like you knew ursula was going to come to a bad end over and over, but you couldn't help feeling optimistic that maybe this time will be the time she makes it through.
No, not the twins from the Kubrick movie, but the targets of a serial killer who finds a time portal in Chicago during the Depression and jackrabbits his way through recent American history, killing women and taking trophies. Until, that is, he encounters a tuff girl who’s not so easy to do away with. It’s the black-hole version of The Time Traveler’s Wife.
Here's the thing about this book: it is a mash-up of many different genres, and while the execution was perfectly fine, I felt none of them were showcased in a way that was particularly...outstanding?A breakdown of some of the different elements this book tries to incorporate, along with a few thoughts on each:Time travel: the jumps in timeline in this book involve a weird house in Chicago in the 1930s.
I'm not even going to spend any time talking about it because it felt so sketched out.Overall, I just feel like I've read bits and pieces of this book before in various different forms, and they've all previously been executed with more focus and originality and thought and research.
Harper, the time-traveling serial killer, spends most of his chapters in the Great Depression Era, plotting escapades to the future to kill “shining girls.” The other main character is Kirby, a shining girl from the early 90s who survives Harper’s homicide attempt.
It’s problematic when you don’t want to read any of the antagonist’s boring, tedious, and repetitive chapters since they amount to more than half the book.I picked this book up after hearing the phrase “time traveling serial killer.” But Lauren Beukes doesn’t sufficiently develop either of these ideas.
Δεν υπάρχει ίχνος ασάφειας ή κρυμμένης αλήθειας που που προσπαθεί να εξάψει τη φαντασία και τη σκέψη του αναγνώστη.
Σίγουρα η συγγραφέας παίζει αριστοτεχνικά με τη σκέψη και την φαντασία μας έχοντας τεράστιο ταλέντο στην τεχνική των διαλόγων και την περιγραφή αποκρουστικών εικόνων.
Κάπου βαθιά στο τούνελ των φρικιαστικών γεγονότων που συμβαίνουν υπάρχει ένα μικρό φωτακι αμφισβήτησης από την κοινή λογική του αναγνώστη προς τον τροπο σκέψης και αιτιολόγησης καταστάσεων που διαδραματίζονται σε όλη την πλοκή του βιβλίου, όμως αν δεν υπάρχει και αυτή η πινελιά παραφυσικών στοιχείων και υπάρξεων δεν θα υπάρχει και το πραγματικό ψυχολογικό έναυσμα για τα παιχνίδια του μυαλού.
It's not easy to sell people on the concept of The Shining Girls, because every time I try to describe the plot, I can't do it without making this sound like the dumbest possible idea for a book.
In essence, this is a very, very dumb idea for a story that has been executed very, very well (which is also how I describe Pacific Rim, a movie where humans build giant robots to fight giant aliens and it's actually one of the best movies I've ever seen).Our killer is Harper Curtis, and while on the run from gangsters in 1930's Chicago, he discovers that he can time-travel.
Inside the house Harper finds objects that seem to cause a compulsion or perhaps a memory of past compulsions within him, which in turn leads him out the door and into another period of time where he finds one of his victims at an early age, allowing Harper to leave one of these objects with her until such time as he can come back and retrieve it and her.
Instead there I was on the time travelling, serial killers bus as he moved from stop to stop, kill to kill, leaving objects, taking objects, hurtling through time, but I cannot say that I ever really cared about his victims, which in turn meant that I was pretty much just biding my time and waiting for the ride to be over.
The reader gets a front row seat at the crimes, usually immediately after a series of passages describing the girl so that an emotional connection is formed with the victim.I was on a run listening to the audiobook...
I was on a mildly taxing walk listening to the audiobook and I had to turn it off when he attacked Kirby.
But even then, I think it would be safe to say that this was not the book for me.I was really excited when Beukes introduced the reader to the newsroom of the Chicago newspaper.
There's a lot for me to love about this book:1) The main character Kirby is fantastic.
The mechanics of the time travel are not explained or explored in the ways they usually are in a sci-fi novel.
It's this "House" that allows for a time traveling serial killer, and for that unique premise alone the book deserves a second look.
While Kirby stood out bright as the sun as one of "the Shining Girls", the rest of Harper's victims feel underdeveloped by comparison, almost throwaways, mere plot devices.
I also felt a tad underwhelmed by Kirby's "hunt" of her attempted killer.
Combining elements of horror, murder mystery, thriller, crime, and time travel fantasy this book finds itself on a unique bookshelf and Beukes demonstrates her rare gift of imagination and technical ability.
Using a shifting perspective, jumping chronological narrative technique that works brilliantly with the time travel elements of the story, Beukes’ prose is tight and fast paced.
Especially good are her sketches of the victims, Beukes crafts them into three dimensional, real, blood and soul people.
Good enough for Stephen King or Richard Matheson, behind it all is a deliciously mysterious haunted house.
Unfortunately, Harper is a psychopath who starts using names and objects in the house to track and murder women in various times.
Whether that influenced me or not, I found Harper’s brand of crazy just tiresome after a while since it was all about getting off on making innocent woman suffer.Maybe if there had been (view spoiler)[some type of motive for Harper to be killing people all over time, I could have gotten more into it.
But along came "The Shining Girls", and Karen's review compares it to "Gone Girl", one of my favourites and the big buzz book of summer 2012 and I need to get on this shit.Then I read it.And I don't know what's wrong with me, but it's as simple as this - I don't understand the hype.Looking at the blurb, I do.
For a novel that strives to be both genre-based and literary, it meanders through cheap exploitation and genre cliche.Harper, a drifter from the 1920s, kills women who "shine" through history.
The one thing that impresses me the most about this book is the sheer ambition.I mean, it's a Mystery cat-and-mouse game told from killer who can hop through time from Depression Era through the early nineties, getting his depraved game of meeting little "shining" girls and coming back moments later when they're all grown up to brutally murder them.And then we also get a heavily researched and deeply characterized slew of female victims that reads more like a brilliant historical novel than what could have been a few hops and slashes with vague settings...
This book has a great premise: It's a time-traveling serial killer!
The killer, Harper, has so many murder victims that it's difficult to care about them or even to remember who is who.
We also don't get any explanation for why Harper was able to time travel by stepping foot inside a certain house, and we don't understand what made some of his victims "shine" to attract him.
I give Lauren Beukes credit for taking on such a challenge, and I think this book may be enjoyed more by readers who aren't suffering from serial killer/sociopath fatigue, as I am.
I do have to say, however, that for me, it might be the least striking and remarkable of her works, although I believe it is her most critically-acclaimed.It's a cross-genre mashup of a time-travel story and a serial killer/murder mystery.
How can investigators track down a killer who is no longer there to be caught, having absconded to a different decade?That's just the task that Kirby Mazrachi, all unknowing, has set herself.
She may be the only one of Curtis' victims to survive: after a brutal attack in 1989, she was left for dead, and the killer is unaware that she is still alive.
I wanted to like this book way more than I actually did.
The premise of it sounds wonderful.
A time traveling serial killer?
Color me intrigued.
The thing was this book reads so slow that I kept falling asleep.
There's a house that allows this cray cray man to travel across time.
Spotting girls that "shine" and going back later when they have grown up and killing them.
Brutally.I thought the "shine" thing would draw me in since I loved that theme in The Shining and Doctor Sleep.
There are some good moments in this book but for me they just didn't keep up with the snoozes.
I loved it.A time traveling serial killer.
She tries to put her life back together and to put an end to his murdering ways.I felt deliciously drunk on time, as the chapters changed POV and year, but all clearly marked by the title heading.
During the last several chapters, my feet were making little running motions and I kept checking to see how many pages of tension were left.
The killer doesn't come off as sexy or overly intelligent or all that slick.
And the women/girls are truly shining ones--shining with intelligence, potential and determination.I would recommend this novel highly.
Piss off."Now that Mr. Bananas is gone, I should probably address the problems you might have with Lauren Beukes's The Shining Girls.
All too often, authors ruin their own books by putting spoilers in their chapter headings.
Lauren Beukes not only uses chapter titles in lazy ways, but if you miss whose head and the time you're in, the book becomes a mess very quickly.
The plot isn't the most original (serial killer bouncing through time ala Sherlock Holmes vs Jack the Ripper in that one old movie), but Beukes does manage to make what happens interesting.
If you skip chapter headings, you will be super fucking confused.
Harper, our Serial Killer.This would be just fine if I even thought that Beukes wanted this, but it is apparent that she wants us to feel and root for Kirby and Dan.If you think I am throwing out spoliers here-not even close.You find this all out really fast and I am not even getting to the other devices employed.I will note though, another part that gave to the choppy feel was the jump from victim to victim through time.While I believe Beukes wanted the reader to see little vignettes, this reader found essence of naught.I just could not bring myself to care.Due to this, every time we came back around to Kirby and Beukes would go into some intimate description I could not get through it.I would scan it knowing exactly the point she was trying to make, exactly what I was to take away and read on from there.So very transparent.Good example, about 200 some pages in (yeah-that far) she is describing Kirby going through a box filled with things from her childhood.I knew exactly what she was looking for and so will you if you read this.The description of each object, naming them, citing the color, etc.
Featuring a killer, who stumbles onto a house that lets him travel through time to find what he calls, his "shining girls." Girls that are so full of life he is compelled to extinguish their flame.
How does one possibly catch a killer that can kill and then escape to another time.
I just read that this highly inventive novel has been optioned by DiCaprio's production company, for television.
Although at times it did get confusing, what year when, the concept mattered more than the details and as I read it did get easier.
Not that I'm saying it's historically inaccurate, but if you asked me right now, "Hey Greg I'm writing a story that takes place in Chicago in the early 90's and I want to let her go to a punk show, what band should she be seeing?" I'd answer Naked Raygun.
If you were reading this review to find out if maybe you want to try this book that people keep calling this summer's Gone Girl, I'm sorry.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A time traveling serial killer, you say????? I was so ready to amp it up to 1.21 gigawatts and press the accelerator to 88 MPH. But then . . . . It’s like the author was really late for a meeting with the publishers, and while running down the hallway as fast as possible she drops the whole shebang, chapters scatter, there is no time to put everything back together in the proper order, so she makes the decision to go with whatever arra
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A time traveling serial killer, you say?????
Delete the time travel b.s. and turn the duo into a couple of overzealous reporters trying to link various murders (as well as the attack on Kirby) together in order to prove a serial killer is on the loose and this one could have been a winner.2.5 Stars, but I’m giving it a bonus ½ Star for Dan being a sports reporter and the tons of references to the Sandberg/Sosa/Grace era of the Chicago Cubs.
I made a mistake with this -Im not going to to continue.
I don’t even mind that the time travel wasn’t explained.
It isn’t as though Beukes made any interesting exploration of history or the role of women in America.
It’s like Jack the Ripper decided to kill all the American Girl Dolls.In fact, all the characters – historical or not -- are cartoonish.
(It bothered me that Beukes chose to write the chapters about the African American homeless guy basically in dialect.
Beukes is terrible at writing dialogue – instead of talking to each other, her characters speak in weird contorted ways in order to dump information on the reader.
In the words of the author:“Harper, a time-travelling serial killer is untraceable, unstoppable until one of his victims, Kirby, survives and turns the hunt around.”To my mind The Shining Girls is not science fiction, the mechanics of the time traveling aspect is not explored at all.
Still, Harper does have things entirely his way for more than half the book and it is a little frustrating as Beukes has done too good a job of making him loathsome.In spite of most of the girls being killed off there is a theme of women’s empowerment here which is admirable, and it does not take precedence over storytelling.
That's what I thought.The time bending begins in 1974, with a gimp footed creeper named Harper Curtis approaching a little girl named Kirby Mazrachi on a playground.
In a bedroom upstairs, personal effects from each of these girls fade in and out of time: a baseball card from 1947, a cassette tape from 1972, a tennis ball from 1989.In one of the more harrowing scenes I've encountered in a novel, Kirby crosses paths with Harper again in 1989 while walking her dog in a bird sanctuary.
When that time comes, he leaves their bodies with a new memento, one taken from a different Shining Girl.
Plus, I think it should be mentioned there's also a gruesome scene involving a dog that may or may not have caused a tear or two.'He only has to think of a time and it will open onto it, although he can't always tell if his thoughts are his own or if the House is deciding for him.'Much like what karen says in her review of The Shining Girls, this book reminds me very much of Life After Life despite it's obvious differences.
Beukes assuredly avoids the inherent pitfalls of changing timelines by ensuring that both the historical and more contemporary storylines are equally engaging, as we follow the dark deeds of Harper Curtis- a time travelling serial killer- and the story of Kirby Mazrachi- a young woman who has survived one of Curtis’ brutal attacks.
It’s a very clever conceit for a story and one that I think Beukes pulls off with aplomb throughout.I actually really liked the character of Curtis- serial killing psychopath that he is- and the exploration of the contrasting demons within his character.
Of all the thrillers I've read with the world "girl" in its title, this was by far the best.
Imagine if Jack the Ripper could time travel.
Harper needs to kill the Shining Girls - some eight (?) of them, in order to "pacify" his house and still be able to travel through time.
Dan plays a significant role in the book because he covered Kirby's attack, and that kind of led to his downfall as a crime reporter.
The Shining Girls is a complicated book, but Beukes does an excellent job in helping Kirby (and the reader) unravel the story.
I loved Kirby's headstrong nature, but to all those who compare this novel to The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo I must point out that a few punk rock t-shirts and a nose ring do not a Lisbeth Salander make.As it weaves back and forth through time, the novel alternates its chapters between Harper, Kirby, Harper's other victims (whose stories, while poignant, aren't as fleshed out as I would have liked them to be), and a few minor characters.
By the time the denouement occurs, it is, despite all the weirdness that leads up to it, fairly average and not much different from the resolution one might expect in a more traditional serial killer narrative.There's no doubt that Lauren Beukes has an interesting idea behind The Shining Girls, but it never really delivered for me.
