https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298663.The_Killer_Inside_Me
(This might give you a dim glimmer as to what my to-read shelf is like.)A couple days ago, I was in-between books and looking over my shelves for something I could read before going to bed.
And starting a book that I love is going to cost me sleep.So I pulled this off the shelf instead.
And I found myself thinking, "Wow. I didn't know folks were writing dark shit like this back then." Then I realized what a dumb thought that was.I think its genre is "Crime Fiction" but again, that was fifty years ago.
Stephen King said about novelist Jim Thompson: “He was crazy. He went running into the American subconscious with a blowtorch in one hand and a pistol in the other, screaming his goddamn head off. No one else came close.”I thought I would love this book, and I did somewhat. I feel kinda dirty after reading it though. Deputy Sheriff Lou Ford is well..he is a fucker. He hides in plain sight. That calm deputy that draws no attention to himself, but deep inside his monster's lurk. Told from the firs
That calm deputy that draws no attention to himself, but deep inside his monster's lurk.
That's honestly about all I could take, any longer and I would have screamed for mercy.Lou likes smacking around and spanking his women.
Then the monster rears his ugly head again and you want a shower and mind bleach because you felt sorrow for this F@#CKER!!!!!!I'm a pretty jaded reader.
I can't even begin to imagine if I had read this book when it first came out.
I'm giving it four stars even though I want to give it a one star for just..for just damn being in my head now.
That's how Lou Ford, the protagonist of The Killer Inside Me is.
I also suspect that Jim Thompson may have been that way as well.The Killer Inside Me is the story of Lou Ford, a small town sheriff who's a little slow and a little boring.
Lou Ford spends most of his time keeping the sickness inside him in check.
What makes it work is Jim Thompson's writing.
Just like in Population 1280, Jim Thompson uses an unreliable narrator and plays it to the hilt.
Like I said earlier, Thompson writes sociopaths a little too well for comfort.
Anyway, all wrath and chagrin aside, Uncle Stevie gives great introduction (heh) and this essay is particularly inspired dealing as it does with Jim Thompson, his mark on dark literature, and the enduring legacy of his psychopathic, unassuming small town Deputy Sheriff, Lou Ford.Told in the first-person, The Killer Inside Me is as close as you're ever going to want to get to the inner thoughts and irrepressible urges of a psycho killer.
Without Jim Thompson -- and especially without Lou Ford -- I can only believe 'country noir' would not be what it is today.
La risposta è proprio nel punto di vista che il romanzo assume, la voce narrante dello stesso Lou Ford, che sa di essere quello che è, ma sa anche nasconderlo bene – fino a che la vera natura dello sceriffo prende il sopravvento.
HOWDY FOLKS…MY NAME IS LOU FORD AND I’M A MILD-MANNERED, DEPUTY SHERIFF IN A SMALL TEXAS TOWN...OH BTW...I’M ALSO A SADISTIC, DEEPLY DISTURBED, PSYCHOPATHIC KILLER....NICE TO MEET YOU!! 5.0 stars. A “one of a kind” reading experience that I can not recommend more highly for fans of noir crime fiction or psychological thrillers. Told in the first person by Lou Ford, who to all outward appearances is a thoughtful, considerate (if somewhat slow) Deputy Sheriff of Capital City, Texas, population 50,
HOWDY FOLKS…MY NAME IS LOU FORD AND I’M A MILD-MANNERED, DEPUTY SHERIFF IN A SMALL TEXAS TOWN...OH BTW...I’M ALSO A SADISTIC, DEEPLY DISTURBED, PSYCHOPATHIC KILLER....NICE TO MEET YOU!!
Told in the first person by Lou Ford, who to all outward appearances is a thoughtful, considerate (if somewhat slow) Deputy Sheriff of Capital City, Texas, population 50,000.
It reminded me a little of Michael Rooker’s excellent performance in the truly disturbing movie, “Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer”, though Jim Thompson’s writing is much more subtle and nuanced.
I mean, who doesn't love a good psychopath?
Enter Lou Ford, small town sheriff and all-round good guy...
But Lou has the sickness.
and the killer inside him comes out.Fabulous.
The Killer Inside Me isn't a bad book, it was just nowhere near as good as I thought it was going to be.
Lou Ford did not creep me out in the way he was supposed to, he didn't creep me out in the way Stephen King and Stanley Kubrick claim to have been creeped out by him.
Dolores Umbridge is creepier than Lou.
But Lou’s persona is all a mask to hide his true self and to keep what he thinks of as ‘his sickness’ in check.When Lou is dispatched to give a warning to a call-girl named Joyce, it escalates into a confrontation that unleashes Lou’s sadistic side, and he’s shocked to discover that Joyce is a willing partner.
Letting his darker impulses out of the box soon leads Lou to more violence, and then a lengthy cat-and-mouse game with the local power structure as he covers up his crimes with a mixture of his dimwitted persona and even more bloodshed.Reading this is a really odd experience.
That’s just one of the many ways that evil Lou has of getting under your skin.
Ο Τόμσον αν ζούσε τώρα θα ήταν ο άρχων της southern gothic/nouar λογοτεχνίας, με τον Donald Ray Pollock να ακολουθεί κατά πόδας.Σε τούτο εδώ, που θεωρείται το αριστούργμά του, εξακολουθεί να είναι καυστικός και χιουμορίστας.
Είναι, όμως, και προκλητικός γιατί επιλέγει να φέρει τον αναγνώστη σε επαφή με κάτι πρωτόγνωρο για τα έως τότε δεδομένα: την πλευρά του εγκληματικού μυαλου΄.
Τα μοτίβα τσαλακώνονται, καθώς και οι προσδοκίες κάθε αναγνώστη που θα περιμένει να απολαύσεις τις συμβάσεις της αγαπημένης λογοτεχνίας του.
That is a value for the difference between right and wrong.Take Jim Thompson's protagonist, Lou Ford.
He's not squeamish.I can't fault Jim Thompson for the psychology he cites accurately, the material that was commonly referred to at the time of his writing The Killer Inside Me Emil Kraepelin, whose works Lou Ford studies in his father's medical library is credited with the birth of modern psychiatric diagnoses.
Emil Kraepelin, Lou Ford's favorite authorLou Ford's personality is described with unerring accuracy in Kraepelin's later work, which would have been available to Jim Thompson, under sections dealing with moral insanity.
"It's always lightest just before the dark..." This is one terrific tale, though nasty as all get out. Thompson seems to have serious Mommy issues, as all his women, be they whores or schoolmarms, are shrewish harpies. AND, he seems to believe that a good beating is the only foreplay a woman should ever need.He is not alone in his cringe-worthy treatment of the ladies. It seems to be a common problem that has bugged the hell out of me in other books of this ilk and is probably the main reason I
"It's always lightest just before the dark..."
This is one terrific tale, though nasty as all get out.
Thompson seems to have serious Mommy issues, as all his women, be they whores or schoolmarms, are shrewish harpies.
AND, he seems to believe that a good beating is the only foreplay a woman should ever need.He is not alone in his cringe-worthy treatment of the ladies.
It seems to be a common problem that has bugged the hell out of me in other books of this ilk and is probably the main reason I don't read more noir.
Δεν είναι τυχαίο που ο Κιούμπρικ θεωρούσε τον συγκεκριμένο συγγραφέα μεγαλοφυΐα... Το βιβλίο σε μεταφέρει στις ΗΠΑ του 1952, σε μια noir ατμόσφαιρα που όλα είναι πιθανά>..Ολόκληρη η κριτική στην Λέσχη του Βιβλίου: http://www.λέσχη.gr/forum/showthread....
On the inside he has a dark-side he is a sociopathic killer who seems to think that life is ruled by any means necessary, full of both corny, small-town bonhomie and murderous psychosexual rage.
It's not good for us, know what i mean?
A time to live and a time to die"
While he seems at the same time to explain his reasons for his actions he does not quite understanding why he treads that path, he tries to understand himself in his story by digging out a quote out of a psychology textbook.
Also on my webpage @http://more2read.com/review/the-killer-inside-me-by-jim-thompson/
At one point Lou says, “There are things that have to be forgotten if you want to go on living,” but he only hints just what it is that needs to be forgotten.
At one point the oblivious monster Lou philosophizes to the young Johnnie: “’Yeah, Johnnie,’ I said, ‘it’s a screwed up, bitched up world, and I’m afraid it’s going to stay that way.
So periodically he talks about the process of writing his (fictional) “memoir.” For instance:“In lots of books I read, the writer seems to go haywire every time he reaches a high point.
When Boris Vian hoaxed his way into the roman noir scene in 1958 with ‘I spit on your graves’, he was giving Jim Thompson a nod.This book is riveting.
It springs on the back of Chandler and Hammet who were by then moulding the no-nonsense, cynical, take no prisoner ‘Has- Been’ into limelight situations, but whereas these pioneer anti-heroes seem to preserve a modicum of decency, their successors, guided by the likes of Patricia Highsmith, Vian and Thompson seem to surgically remove that modicum, leaving in its wake a macabre portrait of pathology.
Εντάξει,δεν τίθεται θέμα,η γραφή του συγγραφέα είναι αυτή που σε τραβάει.Αυτό που με έκανε ν’ ανατριχιάσω είναι ότι επέλεξε την αφήγηση σε πρώτο πρόσωπο για να μας παρουσιάσει ένα άρρωστο μυαλό.Άρρωστο όχι απλά γιατί σκοτώνει (σιγά το «περίεργο»),αλλά γιατί φαίνεται να μην έχει κάποιο συγκεκριμένο λόγο να σκοτώσει.
Όλα είναι αίμα.Μπρρ…Να σας πω,είδα ότι αυτό ήταν ένα από τ' αγαπημένα βιβλίο του Stanley Kubrick (ο Thompson συνεργάστηκε με τον σκηνοθέτη για το σενάριο της ταινίας “The Killing”) και ο Thomspon από τους αγαπημένους συγγραφείς του Stephen King (λογικό το βρίσκω).
I've read what some may consider to be a creepy number of non-fiction books on sociopathy (The Sociopath Next Door, Snakes in Suits: When Psychopaths Go to Work, The Mask of Sanity).
All of them attempt to offer insight into the heads of these individuals among us who exist without conscience, and adeptly "play human." Many of them (especially The Gift of Fear: Survival Signals That Protect Us from Violence by Gavin de Becker - which rumor has it Oprah recommended) try to aid the average, non-sociopathic Joe in identifying and avoiding such individuals.
This book is a heaping spoonful of sick satisfaction...and I loved it.
The threat of violence in the small Texas town profiled in Jim Thompson’s The Killer Inside Me is so low that the patrolling sheriff, Lou Ford, doesn't even need to carry a gun.
While he speaks in clichés and exudes a friendly demeanour, Lou’s true nature exists behind this social mask; a chilling homicidal maniac who could kill at any moment.This was my first Jim Thompson and although the brutality of the violence and the pleasure Thompson’s Lou Ford receives in administering beatings and committing murder will stay with me for some time, the writing style kind of threw me off.
And although I haven’t read this book yet, I’ve read enough Jim Thompson to be sure that the scenes where Winterbottom attempts to force us to watch women (as it happens) being punched and kicked to death, would have been utterly readable in a way they were not - and indeed should not have been - watchable.
I do not think that of either Pan's Labyrinth or Red Riding Trilogy where the violence served no purpose whatsoever.-------------------I feel like I've failed this book, so I'm starting again...It was watching the movie of this book that gave me one of those moments of understanding.There are the ones who say what they believe, who say what they mean.
I have to give it extra points, though, because Thompson's craft is absolutely incredible.
He totally nails the "murder mystery from the murderer's point of view" story.
Also, as the story progresses and the main character's mind starts deteriorating, you can actually feel this breakdown happening.
You literally follow the main character into the jaws of madness.
As far as I can remember, this is my first Jim Thompson novel.
Based on the strength of this one book, however, I went and picked up a bunch of his other novels.
Anyone who likes American Psycho or noir should definitely pick this book up.
He needlessly ribs people by playing at the corny buffoon act, brow beating them with such humdingers as "the way I look at it, a man doesn't get any more out of life that what he puts in to it," and "it came to me out of a clear sky - the boy is the father to the man.
Just like that, the boy is the father to the man." It's got me wondering whether half of the people I have to deal with in my bookshop are secretly psychopathic killers out to wind me up or whether they are genuinely that much of a buffoon.
The Killer Inside Me is one of those novels that needs no introduction at all -- it is and will always be a classic of American noir fiction, it's been made into two movies (1976 and 2010), and chances are that if you haven't read the novel you've at least seen the film.
It's also one of those books that has been studied left and right, inside and out, and has even been the subject of a number of dissertations.This book is extremely difficult to read because of the sadistic, misogynistic violence (yes, I know ...
It's up there among books that made me want to take a shower after reading it, but it's so damn good I just couldn't stop.
He’s a deputy in a little place known as Central City, and it’s the perfect job for him, as it allows him easier access to cover up his crimes.
He smiles and acts the fool to people, all of them knowing what a big soft hearted fellow he is, all while planning out what he is going to do next.
This managed to creep me out in a way American Psycho never did, as unlike Bateman, I found myself sometimes liking Lou.And that dear readers, is truly a frightening thing.A well deserved 4 out of 5 stars and a full recommendation.
I want to give at least a minor warning as I think some readers will find the book to some extent disturbing.
I do know the movie was roundly criticized for violence against women.
As I said I haven't seen the movie, but if the movie stays true to the book there's no way to avoid that.Lou Ford is somewhat of a psychopathic sadist.
The book will take us on a guided tour of Lou's descent into madness.
I do want you to know however that you'll get some graphic violence (still not as graphic as some more modern books but it gets the job done).
Thompson himself admired Fyodor Dostoyevsky & critic/author Geoffrey O'Bren called Thompson the '"Dime-store Dostoyevsky." Whilst comparison with Dostoyevsky may be a 'long bow to draw' there is no doubt they share some common attributes.
Both authentically portray their respective eras in their use of language, social conditions & cultural attitudes & prejudices.
'The Killer Inside Me' is told in the first person by Sheriff's Deputy Lou Ford, who to his fellow townspeople seems a likable, amiable, but somewhat dimwitted individual.
Ford blames the company's owner, Chester Conway, for his brother's death & takes his revenge by killing Conway's son.
That Deputy Lou Ford is a psychopath, there can be no doubt.
I read this because I saw that Stephen King recommended it. Any thoughts I have would simply be superfluous.
This sounded like my kind of thing, and with favourable reviews from Stanley Kubrick and Stephen King illuminating the front and back of the book, I figured that this would be right up my alley.
I generally love first-person narration, especially from sociopaths and people out on the fringes of society - but I could detect little merit in Thompson's writing.
The book really drags out, and is very confusing.
If I was to recommend a book like this dictated in the first person by a sociopath, I would recommend The Room by Hubert Selby Jr. over this.
I was really surprised by this book. It had the classic quality of a 20th century book but it was ahead of its time in many ways as well with its shocking story and view into the mind of a killer.
The Killer Inside Me is unlike any other book I've read.
And yet, that crudeness is necessary at times, because we are in the mind of Lou Ford, and crudeness is quite at home there.
Lou kills if he thinks it's necessary, and always to save his own hide.
The Killer Inside Me is a quick read that leaves you feeling like you need a palate cleanser book afterwards.
Being inside the mind of Lou Ford is daunting and unpleasant, but this book left an impact on me that I know I won't soon forget.
Jim Thompson worked on oil rigs in his youth.
It's filthy, dangerous, deeply hair-raising work, all to get at something that's as precious as it is polluted.
His protagonist here is one of fiction's great unreliable narrators, a charming, brilliant psychopath who knows exactly how sick he is, makes no excuses for it, and only dimly wishes he could stop.
That fatalistic sense of resignation, and the narrator's undeniable charm in the midst of his truly hideous deeds, make this book an absolute tour de force.
