https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462684.The_Story_of_Tracy_Beaker
I use to love Jacqueline Wilson, and I read quite a few of her books before getting ‘too old’ for them.
Perhaps this is because it was made into a TV movie/programme with that woman from 4 Weddings who tragically died of an asthma attack?Anyway, I love Jacqueline Wilson’s approach to social situations, and children not part of the ‘standard family’, which is mirrored in several of her books.
Tracy Beaker and the children she lives with in the children’s home all ooze a need to be loved.
Great read for the social commentary alone for younger readers.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.As a child, or teenager, I did watch Tracy Beaker on the CBBC channel, but that is my only point of reference.
To be honest, Dani Harmer will always be Tracy Beaker, no matter how much she straightens her hair...But I'd never read the book, or any book by Jacqueline Wilson, despite being about the right age to have been exposed to them.
So, whilst I was well aware of Wilson and her creations, I've never picked up a book and read a page.Coming to children's books as an adult is always difficult.
The book also go some way to helping children in 'dysfunctional' family situations learn that they are not alone and relate to some of the things that Tracy does, such as creating her perfect mum who is going to come and get her.I feel this book is suitable for older children in junior school to read independently because the font is not too small, it is not text heavy, includes 'cartoony' illustrations and also includes handwritten pieces from Tracy making it feel like she is the author, not Jacqueline Wilson.
I also feel this would be a good book to read to younger children for the topic of family.
Although Tracy’s life is filled with unhappiness e.g. failed attempts of fostering, her and wild imagination leads her to makes up pretend stories (lies) about how she strongly believes her mum is a famous superstar and how she wishes to be with her one day, in order to give her a sense of comfort.
Tracy wishes that her mum would come back one day to collect her and whisk her away forever, in the fancy lifestyle that she believes she is living.

"I'm Tracy Beaker.
It's the most incredible dynamic heart-rending story.
Honest." Tracy's right, you know.
The first Tracy Beaker story is touching, beautifully written, and often simply hilarious.
By creating a feisty, care-free and sarcastic wannabe-writer in care, Wilson makes the story all that bit more believable.
Beaker's front is satirical, amusing, and naughty, but behind that curly head of hair of hers is a sad and lonely girl who just wants a family to care and love for her.
In that sense, over two decades after its bestselling publication, Tracy Beaker, as a character, is still realistic, funny, and loveable.
It's a book for kids, but it's so fantastic everyone should read it. A must read
Jacqueline Wilson is a genius.Children's books are usually written by adults but it's really rare to find a book with characters that are children who think like children.
Tracy Beaker is a child who thinks like a child.
These stories were written about them, for them.The Story of Tracy Beaker is endlessly entertaining, funny, and sad.
It has the right amount of everything and is the kind of book series every child should read while they are children.
It is also the kind of book adults should read when their childhood has long passed its expiration date.
Amazing book! Would recommend it!
I possibly found her funnier now than I did when I was younger; things like calling her social worker 'Elaine the Pain' just totally appealed to my stupid sense of humour.I found I was picking up on more details when reading this as an adult.
Reading now, it's clear that these are all just white lies of Tracy's created to help her cope with her mum's absence, but children won't necessarily pick up on this; I don't think I did when I was ten.
I particularly like the illustrations of Tracy's letters to Cam, and the way Sharratt draws us in using his drawings.
My daughter absolutely loved the books by Jacqueline Wilson. We still have them all and my daughter absolutely enjoyed each and every book. Recommended.
I LOVE TRACY BEAKER!
I love Jacqueline Wilson and this one is one of the best JW books I've read yet.
Tracy tells her story herself through a notebook that was given to her by her social worker.
She's been in and out of foster care her entire life, and is just getting to the age where she can't quite believe her own stories about why her mom hasn't come to get her (she's a movie star in Hollywood, she's living in Paris, ect.).
This is a fun and very touching book and I absolutely loved it!
I just finished reading it to my little sister, it's told through the eyes of a little orphan.
That's what I thought, it sounded like really cliche, "oh poor orphan girl." But, it was REALLY good, it wasn't a happy corny ending like I was expecting, it wasn't a sob story the orphanage makes us work 40 hours a day and feeds us gruel and all that corny crap.
Realistic too, a lot of times when things are told from the point of view of children it's way unrealistic, but this was dead on believable.
Uuuggggghhhhhh. This book WOULD have 4 stars but there's like 3 typos, and there's not supposed to be typos in books! Also, some of the drawings are a bit inappropriate because they drew the boobs too big. Dis is NOT a good children's book. The story is a bit boring because nothing really happens much. What a waste of like an hour.
This is a popular TV series here. I wanted to read one of the books instead of laughing at the show.I thought it was daring the auther was writing about children in care homes. I believe she writes in a childs voice well.Tracy puts on a tough girl front but she is really hurting inside about not having parents to love her. I also enjoy reading the mischief she gets up to with the other children in the orphanage.
This book is about a girl named Tracy Beaker, who is a foster child. She has been in foster care for almost all her life. She always thought about her beautiful mum, who would pick her up one day... but her mum never came. All her life, Tracy has been very upset, until one day she met a writer, who came for a visit. They met, and their friendship grew. If you like to read books about friendship and reality, don't miss this book! It's a GREAT book.
Reread. Took me back to my childhood. Now I need to read the rest.
This was such a good book. It was so funny and entertaining, I didn't want it to end.
Excellent childhood classic
This book is about a girl called Tracy beaker and can be moody and shouty but once you met her you get used to it . I give these five stars I found her interesting.
I've always wanted to write like Wilson. I love how she understands young people's simple yet very complex mindset.
So it was interesting re-reading an old tale that I loved so much.Tracy Beaker lives in a foster home.
After an assignment is set by the social worker, Tracy starts to write her life story in this small book, where she begins to tell a new tale of her on the conquest to find a foster family.
So, when she is offered the chance to meet a real writer, Cam - Tracy is in love and has only two thing on her mind: getting famous or getting fostered.Tracy Beaker is one of the most popular characters that Jacqueline has created and she has created her perfectly.
I think when an adult can read a book for children and take something from it, the author has done something right, and Wilson has.
It's about a little girl, Tracy, who's basically been abandoned into the care system, and how she deals with that.
Only occasionally do we see behind the mask to the little girl who just wants someone to love her.It's really very touching at times, and, even though it's a children's book, even an adult can get a sense of what children in care go through, how they insulate themselves from pain, how adults fail them again and again.
Where I am just reading up on some English literature that I have missed when growing up in a different country, I actually really liked this one. As someone who works with children it was funnily realistic behaviours.
It is an award winning story about a ten year old girl with challenging behaviour who lives in a foster home called the “Dumping Ground”.
As much as I enjoyed reading the book, it illustrates a lot of bad habits and behaviours demonstrated by the children who live in the foster home especially Tracey Beaker.
Tracy Beaker is humorous, desperate, intelligent, tough-as-nails and very much a 10-year-old girl.
In a way, they might see her as a role model for being a tough and a courageous young girl and for what she has gone through and how she deals with living in the “Dumping ground”.
Although she has behavioural problems, she is popular with everyone and loves to tell funny stories about why she is in care (sometimes a little white lie), about her mother(who she doesn't really know but likes to imagine that she she is a celebrity who will come and whisk her away) and about the different families who had previously adopted her; which can at times be quite sad.
It is never as simple as an open and closed book, and as Forrest Gump famously said 'Life is like a box of chocolate, you never know what your gonna get'.Tracy does many things which every child (and adult) can identify with, I know that I sure can and I guess this is what makes this book so great and enjoyable to read.
You feel sympathy for her as she remembers her mother, but laugh at her as she does something ridiculous once again, such as eating a worm in a game of dares with her enemy at the Dumping Ground, a particually humourous name she called her foster home.
Although I enjoyed this as a child, I feel like I would enjoy it even more now that I'm older and all I ever seam to do anymore is read books that are well put together, very much unlike this one.
I loved them and wanted to re-read the book multiple times to join them again.
Holds up well (and this is a shame) for a book written more than a quarter of a century ago.
There was a report not long ago about a Tinder-like app for adoption.
She captures the contradictions of the child left behind, the one always waiting at the window of the children's home because they really want to believe that someone out their lives them unconditionally (or as close to unconditionally as is possible)The litmus test is whether the Reluctant Bilingual, who i read with, picks up the book outside bedtime to read alone.
(The book is steeped in the colloquial world of a 10'year old circa 1990.
In the 'dumping ground', where she lives she enjoys pulling endless pranks on the other children and adults.My favourite character is Tracy as she has a vivid imagination and comes up with some great ideas for revenge, especially towards her enemy, Justine Littlewood.
She never gets upset though, it's hayfever!The story keeps you wanting more all the way though.
YUK.At the beginning of the book there is an 'about me' section about Tracy which is a unique way to start a book and helps you to get to know a character before jumping into the story.I really enjoyed reading Tracy Beaker and love watching the tv series now.
A couple of years ago, I made a life list and, because I love to read, I went about choosing a list of books to put on the list.
There were still quite a few classics I hadn't read, but there were also beloved books by British authors I had never been introduced to.
Jacqueline Wilson is one such author and, after reading this book, I can totally see why.
It ends positively, but not with everything wrapped up in a neat little bow.There are a few other Wilson books on the BBC list, which gives me a great excuse to read some great children's lit that I missed out on as a child.
