https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28485.Elven_Star
The characters, story and the world were all interesting and compelling.
So, how did this series went from 5 stars to 1?
It's like somebody else wrote this, and not the original authors.The book was so bad, that I didn't even finish it.
Wow, really?3) None of the characters from the first book are here.
I really liked the first book and I have a feeling that this series has potential.
Maybe I will finish it one day, but with books like this, the entire saga suffers.17/11/2016 EDIT: Having continued with the series, all I have to say is that the next books are amazing!
Everything that made the first book so good was basically absent from this one.Plot: In Dragon Wing, the plot started early, and it was interesting right from the beginning.
The only one with even any hint of more than one level (and we're pretty much talking about two levels here, nothing more profound than that) was Aleatha, and she was really more of a secondary character.And don't even get me started on the great passionate love affair between Paithan and Rega.
I'm told that Zifnab is pretty much an inside-joke type nod to a character from the Dragonlance books, and he was a big mistake, as far as I'm concerned.
On the other hand, perhaps it was the intention of the authors to reveal the worlds in this fashion, altering reader perceptions with each novel.There are a number of things that bothered me about Elven Star.
Not much wrong with the pacing then.As was the case with its predecessor, the world building in this novel is truly fascinating.
Pryan is a really, really cool world, and there are some awesome “sense of wonder” revelations later in the book.
Unfortunately, this in itself isn’t enough to make the novel truly great, although it goes a long, long way in restoring credibility.
You know, whenever I'm lucky enough to find a reasonably literate person who has read some fantasy novels, I'm always surprised by the fact that - as far as I can recall - none of them have read The Death Gate Cycle.
Granted, I had some holdover nostalgia from the Dragonlance Chronicles for Weis and Hickman, and so I probably had more cause to read them than most, but, even solely on their own merits, these are really excellent books.
The real mastery, though, is in the novels' 5 distinct - geographically, sociologically, politically, ethnically - worlds.
People who enjoyed Harry Potter or Tolkein should give these books a shot.
fastread it in 5 short hours. Zifnab is the best of all crazy mages the Weis-Hickman duo ever came up with. better than fizban, and definitely far funnier than gandalf the grey. the duet between zifnab and his dragon provides the much too needed comic relief in this extra long story of seven books.
Siglos atrás, unos brujos de gran poder dividieron el mundo en cuatro reinos (cielo, piedra, fuego y mar), y a continuación desaparecieron.
En este mundo conoceremos al delirante mago Zifnab, que parece sacado de una novela de Terry Pratchett.Seguimos conociendo a Haplo, mientras viaja por los mundos sembrando el caos.
Esta segunda novela mejora respecto a la primera que era mas introductoria, aquí desde el inicio ya estas enganchado.
I like the setting of the Death Gate Cycle with the different worlds. However, this novel was not written very well. The plot was very uninspired, the writing seemed amateurish at times, and the character of Zifnab was just annoying. I feel that this book can just be skipped without missing anything.
De serie wordt voortgezet in een heel nieuwe wereld met een heel nieuwe set personages (op 1 na). Hoewel ik de personages van deel 1 beter vond, was de hele nieuwe wereld met zijn eigen geschiedenis en relatie tussen elf, mens en dwerg erg interessant. Ik ben erg benieuwd hoe de volgende wereld eruit ziet en hoe de geschiedenis van de splitsing van de wereld nou is verlopen.
I love the references to other books and sci-fi movies. The dog always provides a little levite and softens the main character. A fun nostalgic read.
heck this was difficult to finish. not sure why exactly. perhaps a lack of relatable characters or compelling prose or perhaps it was that character that was always breaking the fourth wall. just overall felt very mediocre.
I’ll start by saying that Pryan is another fascinating, otherworldly planet, unique in scope like Arianus in  Dragon Wing  and Aberrach in  Fire Sea . The planet is turned inside out, meaning its surface is on the inside and subjected to constant daylight by four “stars” centered at the core. Naturally, this creates a planetary greenhouse effect, which causes the jungle-laden surface to sprout mega trees the size of continents. Elven Star  is also interesting for its diverse cast of species &amp
The unstable relationships between Alethea & Roland; the dragon and Zinfab; Roland & Rega; the dwarf and pretty much everyone; Zinfab and pretty much everyone; Haplo and pretty much everyone, is the chaos one might expect after centuries of racial instability yields to the sudden unification of a global alliance, much like in  Lord Of The Rings .It has it’s moral perks and immoral downfalls as well: from the breaking of race barriers to betrayal and abandonment (Haplo, you dick!).
Don’t let the first hundred pages of character development turn you off, or the fact that it’s far different from  Dragon Wing .
Once the giants invade the land it’s an unrelenting page turner.
His journey leads him to Pryan where a looming menace threatens all races.I thought this book was better than the first one and I really am enjoying this series.
One thing I am enjoying about this series is that we get two different layers of storytelling.
My theory whether one enjoys this character depends if the reader has read these author's other works of Dragonlance.
The storytelling of a complete arc wrapped in an overall arc that is a mystery is well done and enticing me to continue with this well thought out series.
Se trata de una colección de libros en la que tiene cabida la reflexión sobre grandes temas pero que se sustenta, sobre todo, en unos personajes carismáticos, un universo rico y complejo y un ritmo narrativo adictivo que deja espacio suficiente a los detalles.En mi opinión, esta serie llega al listón de joya del género fantástico (con permiso de Sapkowski) ya que, a pesar de apoyarse en muchos de los estereotipos tradicionales, crea un nuevo espacio totalmente genuino.
In book 2 of The Death Gate Cycle, Haplo travels to the second world created after the sundering of the natural world into four components: air, fire, earth, water.
The humans, dwarves, and elves have minor skirmishes with each other but basically keep to their own races.
A crazy old man?) Zifnab was my favorite part of the book.
The major characters (those that will appear in the next books) develop appropriately, while the minor characters are basically just caricatures.
They were appropriate caricatures, though, so I can forgive the authors for not making every character deep and complicated.
Strong, taloned feed could tear through the thickest vegetation or stike down a man at a blow..." and then clost to the ending of the book the same dragon and character that was in 3/4 of the book now has no feet and is described as "The Dragon loomed in front of the, its wingles, footless body coiling upward, its head almost level withthe top of the smooth city walls."I can understand if between book 2 and book 7 some discriptions got lost or muddled but to have the physical apperance of a character change for no reason other then pure writers laziness makes it hard for the read to "believe" in the story.
So it gets two stars for having a good base plot and idea thus far but its hard to like a book that has a poor and lazy writing style.
First, at the end of Dragon Wing you have a showdown with the two representatives of the magical races who are deadly enemies, the Sartan who sundered the old world creating the new in the personage of bumbling Alfred; and the Patryn, Haplo, whose people have just started to escape the deadly prison the Sartan threw them in.
Haplo and Alfred separate at the end of Dragon Wing, and Elven Star expects us to put a pin in that entire situation for a whole book.
It's a hard ask, because Haplo and Alfred together are really what make the series sing.Elven Star takes place in Pryan, the realm of fire.
Las conversaciones con "su" dragón son desternillantes."- ¡Gandalf disfrutaba de una buena pipa!- ¿Por qué crees que lo llamaban Gandalf el Gris?
- añadió el dragón, con aire siniestro."Es el personaje más misterioso y que más me descoloca de la saga (sólo el hecho de hablar de Gandalf ya me dejó alucinada).Por supuesto, la historia se vuelve más misteriosa y te descubre un nuevo mundo basado en otro de los cuatro elementos (agua, tierra, fuego y aire).
Me asombra la imaginación que tienen los autores de la saga para describir con tanto detalle los nuevos mundos y como sus habitantes se las apañan para sobrevivir.
So reading this book I confirm that we humans never learn, it seems that humans, elves, dwarfs and other species had once lived together but could not stop bickering each wanting to have the ultimate power to dominate and enslave the other species!!
elves saw humans as dumb and only good for slavery, dwarves where selfish and thought only of their own race and hence took to their underground world away from the rest and till this day we still fight amongst ourselves race against race to acquire power and dominate those we see less equal to ourselves!!
one dwarf, 2 humans and 2 elves, a dragon and his wizard, it would certainly be a first!!
I enjoyed this one just about as much as Dragon Wing.
Another very interesting world, and mysteries to be revealed towards the end.I'm enjoying the concept of this 7 volume series very much.
I know the next two are stories of the other two worlds, and I'm sure they'll be as fun and interesting as the past two have been, from the reviews I've seen so far.Like other reviewers, I, too, was annoyed with Zifnab's real-world remarks.
It took away from the authentication of the fantasy world for me.But that didn't detract from my overall enjoyment.
I'm looking forward to the next volume, soon.
Segunda entrega de la saga y que sorprendentemente supera a su predecesora, Ala de dragón. La trama principal sigue su curso mientras que la autoconclusiva casi rivaliza en interés a lo largo de sus más de cuatrocientas páginas.La estrella de los elfos supone una especie de estudio sociológico que se puede trasladar perfectamente a la sociedad actual y en la que se tocan temas como el racismo, el clasicismo e incluso el sexismo. Una muy buena continuación y que sigue ampliando el universo de la saga.
Encore un monde qui se révèle incroyable. La menace qui pèse tout du long du livre pousse à lire plus vite et fascine. Les digressions un oeu fofolles de Zifnab sont excellentes et les nombreuses références à notre monde que le lecteur est seul à comprendre sont un vrai plaisir. J'ai juste hâte d'aller visiter les autres mondes maintenant.
Very light fantasy that reuses a lot of the known fantasy tropes but fun. I never read the Dragonlance (Dragons) series but I can see how these authors make a good team. I never did move on to the next book in the series. May try to complete one day but not a high priority.
I just re-read these books, and I remember how much I love them! It's a series that will think is only good until you've finished all of them. It has my favorite magic system and is just a great all around read.
This book was much better than the first one. Story is still hard to follow and then some jokes just do not fit to normal fantasy novel. It tries to have Terry Pratchett like humor, but it just seems so out of context.
Good book! Write more later...
Pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed this book - especially Zifnab's little references!
Moves a bit slower than the rest of the series, but another one that's ultimately necessary to the overall story.
It's a great book, and better than book 1. The worldbuilding is superbly crafted, the plot is great, and Fiznab (Fizban) is a very funny character.5/5
Book 2 in the series. Follows Haplo, who isn't my favorite character. I prefer Alfred. The story is interesting, and we meet elves who are snuffy and prissy, woot.
The characters have neither depth nor arc or development, their story lines are painfully predictable, and it's only a remake of the previous book changing only the setting and some characters.We advance the quest of Haplo and Xar, we go to the next weird world, we meet some people that are nice enough, insufferable enough, and whatever enough to be very minimally attractive, Alfred is replaced by Zifnab and his dragon (which are the epitome of dei ex machina -because, plot!-, by the way), we meet lovely Aleatha whom I was hopelessly in love with (ages later, some of my female characters in video games are named after her), and at least the ending is quite different.Quick, entertaining, very light.
