https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2328605.Star_Born
From my little blog pulpaweek.blogspot.comRight from the start 'Star Born' was an enjoyable read- chapter one has space refugees, stoic merpeople, giant lizards, an ancient evil civilization, and telepathic bunnies!
A human ship lands on a planet, home to three races- mutated exiled humans who had come generation before to escape a dystopian style regime, the fur covered mermen who allied themselves with the exiles and predominantly communicate with their minds and an ancient race of slave masters who are pretty much evil to the bone.
This story is about the human descendants who left Earth in Andre Norton's prior story, The Stars Are Ours.
The newly arrived humans provide valuable technology to the aliens, not knowing that the ultimate goal would be death for all humans, space born and Earth born.Another of Andre Norton's masterpieces, Star Born uses vivid imagery, strong characterization and a simple plot to weave a fast-paced tale for the wildly creative mind.
One of my favorites from Ms. Norton.
An author with an extraordinary mind to bring science fiction to the common man. We are living in that world now, well not all of it. I love re-reading these novels of the 40s and 50s.
This was a really fun book. Light reading and interesting plot. I'd love to read a sequel of both the main characters to see how the experiences of this book affect them in the next. :)
After a nuclear was, a small band of Free Scientists breaks free of the Dark Age being imposed on the shattered Earth by Pax. In a sleeper starship some fity humans escape across space to a world they name Astra to disappear from the pages of human history.
The remnants of two native species, the peaceful mer-folk, and the survivors of “Those Others” a xenophobic race with high technology sporadically battle on Astra.
The human colonists seek only to live in peace but of necessity align with the mer-folk.Star Born begins with Dalgard, a descendant of Dard Norris, the protagonist of the first book.
Excellent and typical Andre Norton story. If you enjoy her other stories, you'll enjoy this one.
The first young man, Dalgard, is of Terran origin, but is more like a new species of human on another planet.
It seemed to drag a bit in the beginning, and I felt as though there were some unresolved character issues (like why Raff so intrinsically distrusted the rest of his crew eve after being on a ship for months with them), and ideas she could have expanded on (how did Pax come apart back on Terra?), but all those would have turned this into a much longer book, and it is what it is, which is pulp scifi.
This story reads like a 1950’s B-rated movie.
This is probably caused from an absence of science and an excess of fiction, which was often the norm for that era.
Although Andre Norton (pseudonym for Alice Mary Norton) is a prolific and renowned science fiction writer, in my opinion, this isn’t her best work.
The lack of romance or any other human quality doesn’t help the story or characterizations, making it a pastiche of trite rhetoric.
Star Born by Andre Norton isn’t for everyone but could probably be highly praised by a chosen few.
The second book in the Andre Norton collection I threw onto my Kindle, and I enjoyed this one much more than the first.
They had about four different species interacting in different ways, and a bit of intrigue tossed in for good measure- who can Raf trust?
Who can the merman trust?
Who can anyone trust?
Oh God, is the Pax back?This was good, old fashioned, scenery chewing Sci Fi. I miss that kind of stuff, and this hit the spot for me.
Nothing revolutionary, but very enjoyable for fans of old school sci fi.
Now on to book 3!
Quite a fun read. Full of adventure and challenges. This is the kind of stuff that made Science Fiction such a blast early on. I highly recommend the book.
Short and sweet, two separate plot lines that converge late into the novel but to great effect.
Apparently this is a sequel to an earlier book but there's nothing on the cover of this edition to indicate this.
In any case, it reads fine as a stand-alone novel and I didn't feel particularly confused or lost.
Written in the late 50's, a strong emphasis on social and cultural aspects of alien life rather than on technology means it doesn't feel as dated as some of its contemporaries.
Exploratory ship from Earth lands on planet where, centuries before, an earlier colony of human refugees had landed and allied itself with telepathic amphibians against the planet's degenerate and vicious former masters. This one is reminiscent of a Barsoom tale, what with the warring semihuman sentient species and nonsentient predators. I can appreciate how well crafted Norton's tales are now, more than when I first read them as a tween/teen, and though the technology has definitely not aged well the rest has.
Highly enjoyable. True classic Sci-Fi, with the story dependent on human (and some non-human)nature, rather than devices or technology - thus making this a timeless book. Confronting moral dilemmas and responding to human fundamentals are the true base of this story. While there is a good closing to the story, be forewarned that it is not a bundling of all of the loose ends. Instead, like good sci-fi, it makes you want more with its "what could/shall be".
Andre Norton is one of my famous golden age sci-fi authors. Star Born is also a favorite of her early works, depicting a far away planet's struggle to recover their civilization after a terrible war. They are unexpectedly aided by the arrival of a Terran exploration party searching for new inhabitable worlds.
Good solid story-based, character-focused sci-fi (as opposed to "hard" sci-fi). Written in 1957, it still holds up today. A rather quick read. Nothing momentous here, but worth it. I've not read any of her other books so I can't compare, but now I'm intrigued.
Reading Andre Norton (1912-2005) is like comfort food for the brain.
Some might think much of her work--from the 50s and 60s- is dated and is also geared to a young readership.
But she concentrates on engaging characters and good storytelling, so I don't find her to be either dated or only of interest for young adults!
Delgard is a member of a human colony on the planet and is trying to learn more about the fallen civilization.
He is able to learn that there is a remnant of the once-advanced aliens still on the planet and that the mermen regard them as a threat.
Set multiple generations after THE STARS ARE OURS, STAR BORN follows one of the descendants of the characters from the first book as he (and one of the mer-men, also from the previous book) explore more of the world and uncover many of the secrets that Norton only hinted at in the first book.
There's a second storyline, as well, that follows a crew of modern astronauts who are also exploring the planet.
The two storylines converge quite late in the narrative, and it's a clever device that Norton uses to good effect.It's pure 1950's space opera, but written with that unique Norton flair, which makes it a worthwhile read, especially for fans of the first book.
Pretty cool 'wagon train to the stars' sort of planetary romance. Protagonist is a young man a group of Earth colonists who fled a tyrannical government four generations ago. He and 'knife brother' from the local telepathic merpeople go on a journey to fulfill the protagonist's manhood rite of passage to scout more territory for Homeport. They encounter the lost race that bred the merpeople and kept them as slaves, and scouts exploring from old Earth. Norton is becoming one of my favs. (Listened to Librivox public domain edition).
Andre Norton was my favorite author back in the 70s. Has it really been that long?Once a colony has been established on an alien planet and generations pass, are the inhabitants still Earthlings? Or has generations of being influenced by an alien planet changed them in some way?
Classic Andre NortonEarly Norton sci-fi, very much her style, with that sense of wonder, mystery, and food for thought. I don't think there was a follow up to complete the open end so it's not one of her great series, but a good stand alone story.
As always a good read from a number one story teller. I miss miss norto n but at least we have her legacy.And this is a good beginning for anyone. The stars are ours is the prequel to this book of anyone is interested.
Very good classic 1950's science fiction. Norton was the queen of 50's-60's sci-fi and as a kid I read everything she wrote. I am now re-reading all I can get my hands on. Recommended to anyone who enjoys classic science fiction.
Really interesting story liked how the humans don't know everything at once and how the aliens aren't vastly overpowered beings
Classic NortonI grew up reading these books as a child. And now I find them again and I'm loving every minute of it.
(The edition I read, bought from Amazon's Kindle store, has a different cover)Norton's story begins as the tale of Dalgarth, a human teen on his coming-of-age trip with his "merman" (think large, humanoid otter) friend Ssuri.
And, over the course of generations, humans began to develop similar abilities.Problems arise for Dalgarth from two sources: first, he and Ssuri discover that the cruel "Those Others," the former humanoid masters of Astra who destroyed their civilization in a global war and who genetically engineered the mermen and other races and used them for sport, have recovered on another continent and come to Dalgarth's to reclaim their ancient and deadly technology.
Not as pulpy as the cover would make you believe.
Although, seriously: all the dudes.
Dalgard is a descendant of Terran colonists out on his man journey with Sssuri, a merman-- though descended from otters, not fish .
They start out exploring and end up saving the planet from ancient baddies.
At least, Dalgard does; we never find out what exactly happens to his oldest friend.
Towards the end he gets replaced by Raf, a Terran pilot, newly arrived on Astra.
And of course, if you don't mind all the dudes.
The racist tendencies implicit in The Stars Are Ours!
But the basic idea is still the same--that there are some people there is no responsibility for (or possibility of) living in peace with, and that the moral response to such 'unpeople' is ruthless extermination.
Norton did occasionally question this assumption, but this isn't one of the books in which she did, by and large.Allied to this, as the cover illustration shows, is the idea that there are ravenous, mindless predators, which also can't be left in peace.
How could a mindless creature be a successful predator?

Review Dalgard Nordis, a terran on Astra, goes through a series of adventures which reflect Andre Norton's preoccupation with social problems on a broad if simplified ?? and the possibility of life on another planet in another solar system like Earth's. Dal people are fourth or fifth generation settlers but remember Earth well enough be disturbed by the arrival of another space ship. Its passengers, discovered and helped by Dalgard after an accident, are the cause of another discovery, the solv
Review 
Dalgard Nordis, a terran on Astra, goes through a series of adventures which reflect Andre Norton's preoccupation with social problems on a broad if simplified ??
Dal people are fourth or fifth generation settlers but remember Earth well enough be disturbed by the arrival of another space ship.
With a new threat from them overcome, the Terrans try to persuade Dalgard to return with them but he now realizes Astra is his own land.
(Kirkus Reviews) 
"What of our children-the second and third generations born on this new world?
After a nuclear was, a small band of Free Scientists breaks free of the Dark Age being imposed on the shattered Earth by Pax. In a sleeper starship some fity humans escape across space to a world they name Astra to disappear from the pages of human history.
The remnants of two native species, the peaceful mer-folk, and the survivors of 'Those Others' a xenophobic race with high technology sporadically battle on Astra.
The human colonists seek only to live in peace but of necessity align with the mer-folk.Star Born review at SFReader.com
