https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13639050-gabriel-s-rapture
*4 Stars*A very enjoyable sequel to one of my favorite romance stories! Rapture is filled with the angst and longing between lovers who've been unfairly torn apart. Its storytelling is elegantly seductive and powerfully poetic. This series is a truly refreshing and classic representation of forbidden love in its sweetest state. Will review properly at a later date. For now...on to Redemption!  Book Stats: ▪ Genre/Category: Contemporary Romance▪ Steam Caliber: Maximum and generous▪ Romance: Sweet
*4 Stars*A very enjoyable sequel to one of my favorite romance stories!
Rapture is filled with the angst and longing between lovers who've been unfairly torn apart.
Its storytelling is elegantly seductive and powerfully poetic.
This series is a truly refreshing and classic representation of forbidden love in its sweetest state.
▪	 Genre/Category: Contemporary Romance▪	 Steam Caliber: Maximum and generous▪ Romance: Sweet, angsty, seductive.▪	 Characters: Protective hero.
Kind and strong heroine.▪	 Plot: Gabriel and Julia's unbreakable love is put to the test.▪ Writing: Beautiful, poetic, engaging.▪ POV: 3rd Person Perspective▪	 Cliffhanger: None▪	 Next Installment: Follow up▪ HEA?
5 Sticky Leaf Stars!!!   “She is not my equal; she is my better. She is my sticky little leaf.” Just like the first book, this one was better the second time around! What is there not to love about Professor Gabriel Emerson??? Gabriel’s Rapture picks up right were Gabriel Inferno leaves off. Gabriel and Julia are happy, in Italy and in love. When they return back to Toronto, there are things that come up that make things much more difficult for the pair.  Nothing can keep these two apart.  So be
5 Sticky Leaf Stars!!!
“She is not my equal; she is my better.
She is my sticky little leaf.”
Just like the first book, this one was better the second time around!
What is there not to love about Professor Gabriel Emerson???
Gabriel’s Rapture picks up right were Gabriel Inferno leaves off.
Gabriel and Julia are happy, in Italy and in love.
So beautiful together.
“I love you far too much, I'm sure.
But I don't know how to love you any other way.”
The writing is phenomenal, the story is so beautiful.
Audiobookin preparation for book 3!
"I wandered in the darkness looking for something better, something real. I found you, and I'll be damned if I'm going to lose you."  4 Stars!The angst and drama in Gabriel's Rapture amazed me. In this sequel, we get to experience Gabriel and Julia's relationship in a much deeper level. The book picked up where Gabriel's Inferno left off. Everything seemed perfect when it comes to Gabriel and Julia's relationship but unexpected situations suddenly came out which led their relationship to a d
Everything seemed perfect when it comes to Gabriel and Julia's relationship but unexpected situations suddenly came out which led their relationship to a different, painful direction.First of all, I have to say that I knew it!
What happened to Julia and Gabriel was too heart-breaking.But you know the good thing about this book?
I actually wished that it was the ending for the whole series.Another thing that I loved about this book was the way Gabriel continued to treat Julia gently despite what happened to them.
She was able to handle things differently here and for that, I adored her.I loved Gabriel's Rapture as a whole.
4.5 - I liked Julia much better this time around. :)
Gabriel was learning to love but still had issues letting Julia make some of the decisions in their relationship.I love the way that Gabriel loves Julia.
There was a portion of the book where Gabriel essentially became like Julia in the Gabriel’s Inferno and Julia became more like Gabriel as far a sexual need goes.
While it was ironic, it showed how both characters had grown over the course of their relationship.There will be those that are trying to pull them apart and don’t forget, their relationship in Gabriel’s Inferno started when Gabriel was the professor and Julia the student.
A very good book in my opinion , and I believe that my review says everything! A pleasure reading this book!Recenzia mea completa o găsiți aici:https://justreadingmybooks.wordpress....
My Julia and Gabriel:Wow, Sylvain Reynard did not disappoint!
The book is full of thoughtful ideas about life, sin, forgiveness and love.
In Gabriel's Rapture, the author connected love and sex in most beautiful way and the way he sees marriage is absolutely wonderful.
I really admire Sylvain Reynard for his ability of forming such a beautiful compliments in this book.
Gabriel and Julia are not perfect, and they both made various mistakes in this book.
This book about love and forgiveness touched my heart and I am sure I will re-read it couple of times.
★★★★★! Gabriel’s Rapture, book 2 of 3. Professor Gabriel Emerson’s courtly seduction of his chaste student Julia!   “You’re the closest thing to an angel I’ll ever touch.”   Books in Gabriel’s Inferno trilogy should be read in order:Book 1: Gabriel’s InfernoBook 2: Gabriel’s RaptureBook 3: Gabriel’s RedemptionRich on symbolism, depth, history and divine message the Gabriel’s Inferno trilogy is set against the backdrop of Dante’s Devine Comedy. The ingenuity of using Dante’s journey in professo
The ingenuity of using Dante’s journey in professors Emerson’s lectures, life lessons, experiences and parallels that can clearly be drawn between Dante – Gabriel, who after having moved through hell meets up with his Beatrice – Julia, to be guided into paradise.
Emerson, Dante specialist for the Department of Italian Studies at the University of Toronto, and MA Grad student Julianne Mitchell, Julia embark on a whirlwind courtship against the university’s strict non-fraternization policy.In Gabriel’s Rapture, book 2, Gabriel and Julia’s chaste courtship has moved into a courtly seduction and beyond as they are getting to know it each other and reluctantly share painful secrets of their pasts.
They are not perfect, they made made mistakes, but they love passionately and with such intensity that makes you able to feel it in every page of the story.
This element of finding peace is still kept in the second book, because Gabriel tries so hard to make her happy and proud of being his lover.
But your body is not your mind, or your heart." He takes care of her as a whole, body and soul, and this side of him is amazingly featured in the book.Julia on the other hand goes trough a lot before finding her happiness with Gabriel.
Where the conflict in Gabriel's Inferno was mostly played out between Gabriel and Julianne, this time the conflict comes from a number of external sources.
Gabriel's generosity and his gentleness towards Julianne is demonstrated in a number of ways.
I can count on one hand the number of romance novels by male authors that I have enjoyed.
Perhaps other male romance authors simply don't write to my taste in novels.
Whatever the reason, I have been mostly disappointed in romances written by men.I have no idea if Mr Reynard is as urbane, intelligent, educated and worldly as Prof Emerson, but he certainly comes across this way in his writing.
Review for books 1 and 2.The 2*(actually 1.5*) are for the hotness on Gabriel(I am very shallow) and for the movie referencesRant starts here:I can't keep reading this book, it's nicely written(just not for me) and researched but it smacks too much of a low budget soap-opera.
Jane Austen had nothing on this author!-the only character where I don't find his jealousy hot(I hope it's the 1st and last time)The only thing that I enjoyed in this series(2 books) were the pop culture references, those were great.Now my dedications to:Julia->
5 Sticky Little Leaf Stars! “When you love something, you don't see its flaws.” Quoting Julia here, my thoughts for this sequel can be summed up in just 6 short words: 'Professor Gabriel “Overprotective” Emerson strikes again'. Just like I said after finishing the first book, this one was better the second time around as well!  "Your love makes me beautiful." "Then let me love you forever."  Gabriel’s Rapture picks up right where Gabriel's Inferno left off. Gabriel and Julia are happy, in Italy
"Your love makes me beautiful." "Then let me love you forever."
Gabriel and Julia are happy, in Italy and in love.
Everything they do, they do with love and it was a beautiful thing to read...however when they return home their joy is threatened by multiple occurrences, and the hurt and mistrust that arises threatens to pull them apart...
"But if you were to tell me you’d fallen in love with someone else and that you were happy, I’d let you go.
In conclusion, I'm not going to give an in-depth review for this book because it has a pretty big plot twist that I don't want to spoil for anyone who hasn't read it yet!
If the author would have included just a smidge of this conversation I would have felt like there was a smooth transition!And now lastly...the ending of the book.For the love of god I do not understand why the first book and now this book have a happy ending with no cliff hanger!
I absolutely love cliff hangers and I was expecting something huge to happen at the end of this novel to persuade me to read the third and last book in the series...but I ended up being underwhelmed.
I (still) love Gabriel's Inferno (you can read my review for that book HERE) but I am overwhelmingly disappointed by this follow up.((Some Explicit Language...
I decided to re-read both books in preparation for reading the recently released final book, Gabriel's Redemption...Because this work wasn't completely irredeemable, let's start with the things I enjoyed: - It is a story filled with LOVE and angst...
- The narrator has a quirky sense of humor which prevents the entire work from being unbearably pretentious.I usually include this at the end of my reviews, but since I'm talking about the good things about this book, I's like to go ahead at tell you:
(Warning: Spoilers ahead!) There’s a longstanding belief that sequels don’t live up to the original, “The Godfather Part II” notwithstanding. That makes it all the more pleasurable to read “Gabriel’s Rapture,” because the book disproves that axiom so thoroughly. It takes the superb groundwork set in the first book, “Gabriel’s Inferno,” and builds upon it to give the reader a rich and rewarding continuation of Gabriel and Julia’s story. We meet up with the couple where we left them at the end of
When Gabriel and Julia have intimate moments in Florence or Umbria, readers feel as if we are right there with them, and it makes us wish all the more that we could be.
I came away from this book loving Julia almost as much as Gabriel does.
At the end of the story, I thought of one of my favorite quotes, from “Zoo Story” by Edward Albee: “Sometimes it’s necessary to go a long distance out of the way in order to come back a short distance correctly.” Julia and Gabriel were forced away from each other, but they were smart enough to appreciate the lessons learned from the experience.
It really is crazy how much I love this series. I find myself wanting to re-read these two book at least once a year. I think that this time make it the fourth time in total I have devoured this book. I dont think I have re-read any book that many times. And every time, they get better. Crazy, I tell you. For me, Sylvian Reynord is nothing short of a genius. Embarrassing maybe, but true. And I love him for having writen these books."Gabriels Rapture" is one of the best sequels I have read. Ever.
It really is crazy how much I love this series.
I don´t think I have re-read any book that many times.
And I love him for having writen these books."Gabriel´s Rapture" is one of the best sequels I have read.
Together with Professor Emerson, Julia is one of my favorite characters ever.
Sylvain Reynard has really written an EXCELLENT book without any flaws.
I cannot wait to read more about Julianne and Gabriel and their relationship in book 3.
This is one of the best books I have ever read.
Sylvain Reynard is one of my absolute favorite authors of all time!
Gabriel and Julia are off to Italy thinking they can finally be alone and get away from everything but sadly it's a small world.We get a lot of answers in this book which made me really happy.
It was interesting how things were handled but I was surprised/not surprised at what Gabriel did.
Will he ever discuss things first?
Of course, I loved this type of drama even though I felt bad for Julia.
I wanted more angst and drama though...or at least for it to on longer.
But I did love how Gabriel handled things as usual.
En cierto momento llegue a pensar que Julia iba a dejar de ser una protagonista fuerte y convertirse en la damisela en apuros, pero no fue así (lo cual fue una sorpresa), ella sigue adelante (no como Bella que se la pasa meses en estado muerto tras la perdida de Edward, tenia que poner este ejemplo).Aunque hay un detalle en este proceso de seguir adelante que no me gusto para nada, si lo han adivinado, Paul (alguien le puede prender fuego a este chico?), mientras Gabriel esta en su propio infiero, tratando de ser mejor hombre para Julia, esperando el momento para volver a la vida de esta.
Shall I stay?Would it be a sinIf I can't help falling in love with you...  "I breathe you," he whispered. "You're everything. You're the air."  Could he be more romantic?  "I want to be your first and your last. I love you, Julianne. I offer you my heart and my life......Say you'll be mine. Forever."  Oh yes.....*ahem ahem* So yup, he can be.......Gabriel's Inferno ended with Gabriel and Julia makin love for the first time. He introduces her to the pleasures of love making and she introduces him
Shall I stay?Would it be a sinIf I can't help falling in love with you...
  
    "I breathe you," he whispered. "You're everything. You're the air."
  
Could he be more romantic?
  
    "I want to be your first and your last. I love you, Julianne. I offer you my heart and my life......Say you'll be mine. Forever."
  
Oh yes.....*ahem ahem* So yup, he can be.......Gabriel's Inferno ended with Gabriel and Julia makin love for the first time. He introduces her to the pleasures of love making and she introduces him to the pleasures of love. More to come. :)
I will post my review when I get around to reading the last book, since I'm doing a reread. However,I'm just going to say *oh my ovaries* how can you not love Professor Gabriel Emerson, he just keeps growing more and more on me.
4 Passionate Stars!  In this second book Julia and Gabriel’s story continues, and this time they will have to fight everything.Since people in their past that are decided to not let them be together to a “anonymous” complaint about their forbidden relationship that will put them both in trouble in their academic and professional life. This are not looking pretty for them. But the most difficult thing they’ll have to overcome is themselves, their pasts and their ghosts. And eventually… all that i
In this second book Julia and Gabriel’s story continues, and this time they will have to fight everything.Since people in their past that are decided to not let them be together to a “anonymous” complaint about their forbidden relationship that will put them both in trouble in their academic and professional life.
This are not looking pretty for them.
This was a pretty sweet and beautiful book, altought not as much as the first.
In this book Julia annoyed me a bit and in a point, Gabriel started looking to cheesy.
Can’t wait for the last book!
I only say this to stress what an easy book rater I am.
In fact, I don't think I have given a book one star before.
Julia's naïveté and stupidity in this book overshadows any possible saving grace the story may have had.
Do u love me?'..' Oooh I love you so much but you're too good for me' or 'oooh I love you but you should be with someone better...' blah blah blah.
The self deprecation from these 2 was suffocating.Anyway, I usually just rate books because I'm not good with reviews so I'll end this with a simple statement - this book sucked.
I read this book in August of 2012 and  just re-read it in preparation for book 3 which will be released on December 3rd. It’s just as good the second time around. I love Gabriel's swoon worthy moments.   My Dearest Julianne,Thank you for your immeasurable gift.The only thing I have of value is my heart.It’s yours,Gabriel.    "I want to be your first and your last. I offer you my heart and my life."   December 3rd, I'm ready for you. BRING IT ON SERIES:   No cliffhanger. Continuing story.195th b
I read this book in August of 2012 and  just re-read it in preparation for book 3 which will be released on December 3rd. It’s just as good the second time around. I love Gabriel's swoon worthy moments. 
  
    My Dearest Julianne,Thank you for your immeasurable gift.The only thing I have of value is my heart.It’s yours,Gabriel.
  

  
    "I want to be your first and your last. I offer you my heart and my life."
  

  December 3rd, I'm ready for you. BRING IT ON
SERIES:
  
  
  No cliffhanger. Continuing story.195th book of 2013
The only reason I finished the book was because I need to know the end of something once I have started it, no matter how bad it is.
I read both books together and the first one was by far better.
I couldnt get over the level of cheese in this book, if they werent having stupid fights, all they were saying to each other was how much they loved each other.
And Gabriel refusing to have sex once they got back together, until they were married, seemed more like blackmail.
Much of the book was unbelievable, and I love to read fantasy/paranormal so that says a lot.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE REVIEWS AT READING, EATING AND DREAMING I WAS BLAIR WALDORFGabriel's Rapture, the sequel to Gabriel's Inferno by Sylvain Reynard, was absolutely brilliant.
Written by an author with a fresh and passionate voice, Gabriel's Rapture was a beautiful, artistic novel that explores "suffering, sex, love, faith, and redemption".
I highly recommend this artistic, sensual love story.I gave Gabriel's Rapture (Gabriel's Inferno #2) by Sylvain Reynard 4 STARS (4.5 STARS).
I rated Gabriel's Inferno (Gabriel's Inferno #1) by Sylvain Reynard 5 STARS.
The only reason I rated this novel lower than its predecessor was because I missed Gabriel's sexy bad boy side.
Quick review:Cover:Still Cute Rating:  NC-17 Steaminess  Scorching Thumbs Up:  5Overall: Better than the first by far.Characters: AwesomenessPlot: When you love someone, you let them go.Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.????
(Series ender?) Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: GabrielSUMMARY (60 words or less)Gabriel showed us what love is and Julia grew a backbone.
There was some predictability but I loved reading it all unfold.
I read the first book back in Nov 11, so I didn’t remember much.
Great Job.To see my full review and likeness of my book boyfriend, check out my blog post.http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
'Gabriel's Rapture' by Sylvain Reynard is book two in the "Gabriel's Inferno" series.
This continues the story of Gabriel and Julia.
Some people might be able to read this as a standalone book...it can be done but I really think you should read the previous book 'Gabriel's Inferno' that started their love story.
This book does catch you up on some of what happened it the last book but I personally like reading this series in order.
We find that Gabriel and Julia are away on their trip which also had them further their relationship but making it physical one.
Book one started of slow, introduced the characters. Book two I couldnt put it down. It was drama after drama, I loved it. I think as far as "love" story goes this is the best so far. Professor Emerson is so in love with Julia you can feel the emotions. At the end of the book I was on cloud nine.. Really good book.
Intense, heart-breaking and emotional. Their love, compassion and trust is something people dream of achieving in life. This is a story that will forever be close to my heart.
The obvious positive in this sequel is that we get to witness Gabriel and Julia’s new found love.
It took awhile for it to happen and it did get a little frustrating.In addition to the changes in the main characters, the other thing that bothered me about the story was the multitude of people wanting to break them up.
Though Gabriel and Julia have their HEA, I don’t think I fully recovered from that part.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m happy Gabriel & Julia got together, but I hated that Paul was collateral damage.
I love your writing and I highly look forward many more of your stories :)
