https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156812.Bicycle_Mystery
I loved this book and all of the cool things that happened with the dog.
The answer: realistic characters, believable storyline, and a kind of summer escapist's daydream into some things that I may never do or experience as much as the boxcar children did.
The Boxcar Children themselves appeared kind at heart yet at the same time weren't snobs either.
I've definitely outgrown the series in terms of reading ability and criticism, but that doesn't stop me from recognizing good writing when I see it (I don't believe that Gertrude Chandler Warner actually wrote all of these books, but whoever continued in her stead was a good writer and emulator).
I wish we still had a society where four kids could spend a week bicycling to their aunt's house safely. :P
The Boxcar Children = most read series between the ages of 6 and 9 for me. I think of these fondly. Every child should read this series.
So this is our third Boxcar children audiobook and what makes this one great is the narrator. She is very pleasant to listen to and does all the different voices really well. A surprising thing on this one was the sound effects throughout-really enjoyed that addition.The story line is a cute one, simple but interesting. You find yourself smiling, laughing, and trying to figure out the mystery right along with the Aldens.
This book wasn't that good because it had several mysteries but the conclusions were all mixed up. I liked the part when the Alden's met Smoky the Skye terrier. I think the dog was very cute. (according to google)
This was less of a bicycle mystery and more of a dog mystery. There were a lot of little mysteries in this book that made it hard to follow at times.
There were fun elements to this book, and I can't really resent a read that only takes an hour. I've found that the closer together I read these, the more repetitive the stories seem to be. The dog was fun, and there bicycle adventure was moderately diverting. These would have been more fun to read as a child, but I still have such an affinity for the series that I'm going to finish this.
Any good deed doesn't go unrewarded.
All the good deeds in the Boxcar Children Mystery Series are usually returned in kind.
It may be in the form of tickets to a dog show or a free room, as in this title.
Consistently throughout the series the Boxcar Children are rewarded with food.
In this story they meet Bulgarian businessman, Big Jenko, and is treated to a lunch of pilaf and four tickets to the big dog show.
It is a good read.
The entire series of Boxcar Mystery titles are meant to be "easy readers" and encourage children to read more.
Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny Alden,went on a bike ride to get to their great aunt's house. On the way they found a lost animal and wanted to get it back to it's owners. a man and a woman said they had stolen the animal, but the Aldens had to find this animal's home. but how? the Aldens are off on another live changing mystery.
I liked Bicycle Mystery. It was where a dog would follow them everywhere. They finally found who owned it. And it was somebody they had helped, but they didn't know for a long time that it was their dog. And they had stayed in an old house and the dog had came to them.
Sometimes, I just say WTF to some of the things these kids do. What kind of hotel rents to a grip of children with a dog? The bicycle mystery has almost nothing to do with bicycles, except thst they ride them. They find a rare dog and are focused on returning it.
I like that Henry and Benny found a dog and named it Shadow. I like how the Alden's find the dogs owner. I don't like that Smokey ran away. I like how the Alden's help people on their way to Aunt Jane's house.
There's this Yorkshire terrier dog and they named it Shadow and they didn't know whose it was. They thought it was a stray, but it obeyed. But it didn't obey to stop whining because it whined all the time.
At about this point in the series, I noticed that the characters' clothing in the cover art was shockingly unstylish.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13832562
I love all of the boxcar children. My little brother is exactly like Benny.:) :)
This was my most favorite boxcar mystery ever!
One of my favorite childhood series. I read over a hundred of them. The first 50 or so were in order; after that I read whatever book I could get my hands on :)
A good series for the young reader.
Read The Boxcar Children books. You're going to find out in #15, they have a bicycle mystery. Can these children solve the mystery and save the day? - yes they can!
Didn't realize it was a kids book. Listened on Ipod. Ooops.
IT WAS INTRESTING
Warner, Gertrude C. PB
Was this the one about the bike race? I liked that one!
X2
This was a very good story filled with adventure.
X4
great when ur little
It was really adventurous, probably one of the most adventurous books I've ever read. I encourage lots of young readers to read the series The Boxcar Children.
