https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47730.The_Complete_Poems
From the self-conscious and contemplative poems of To Bedlam and Part Way Back to the strange and surreal verse of The Awful Rowing Toward God, Anne Sexton's work encompasses a wide range of styles: few other American poets have written so many kinds of poems, on such different subjects, while successfully capturing the attention of the public.
Often interested in personal relationships, as well as the bond between poet and audience, Sexton's poems consistently dazzle readers with inventive images, swift pacing, and simple but powerful language.
But her specific subject matter shifts from collection to collection.
To Bedlam and Part Way Back (1960) - 4/5All My Pretty Ones (1962) - 5/5Live or Die (1966) - 4/5Love Poems (1969) - 5/5Transformations (1971) - 3/5The Book of Folly (1972) - 5/5The Death Notebooks (1974) - 5/5The Awful Rowing Toward God (1975) - 5/5POSTHUMOUSLY PUBLISHED WORK - 45 Mercy Street (1976) - 5/5Words for Dr. Y (1978) - 4/5Other Poems (1971-1973) - 5/5Scorpio, Bad Spider, Die (1971) - 5/5Last Poems - 4/5All Anne Sexton's major work in one place, plus previously unreleased material to complete, what is arguably, the greatest collection of poetry I have ever read.
"strings are incurably playing...the composer has stepped into fire."I devoured The Complete Poems of Anne Sexton, whose poetry, especially her love poems, quivers with a pulsating eros as it sways to its orgiastic echoes.
Where there was silencethe drums, the strings are incurably playing.
Darling, the composer has steppedinto fire.
Others since have been kinder, saying that she had matured to the use her poems as an "instrument against the 'politesse' of language, politics, religion [and] sex." Rothenberg, Joris, Poems for the Millenium, 1995.
Sexton is a bit of an obsession of mine--I've been reading her poetry since I was a teenager, and *almost* wrote my dissertation on her!
She's often compared to Sylvia Plath (who was her friend), but her poetry is very different.
Where Plath is something of an intellectual poet and a meticulous craftsman, Sexton is more dramatic and playful; she doesn't have the same control of language as Plath, but she is a little more accessible.
Like Plath, though, she was deeply troubled and committed suicide in a similar fashion.Her best poems are in her first two books, and in the collection called "Transformations" which offers modern re-tellings of classic fairy-tales--usually from a woman's perspective.
I'm in this workshop and I have this poem and Kathleen Fraser says that if I don't take every pronoun out of my poem I run the risk of seeming confessional which is "at the worst, Anne Sexton, and at the best, Sylvia Plath." I felt stomped on.
Not because she was right about my poem, but because I became aware that everyone could see me doing it, reading the complete Sexton, cover to cover one spring in college.
I can see me beside the pool reading it and I'm thinking fuck you Kathleen, because everyone is a young women sometimes and everyone wants those long long legs.
To Hayden Carruth, the poems "raise the never-solved problem of what literature really is, where you draw the line between art and documentary." -- Maxine Kumin in her Foreword Sexton's poetry transcends the shamelessly personal because, unlike Plath, she did not disguise herself behind metaphors; not in the least as cerebrally as Plath, anyway.
By simply being Anne Sexton, she wrote about the human condition, in its insanity, glory and passion.
Disclaimer: ARC via Open Road Media and Netgalley I was first introduced to Anne Sexton in college during an American Poetry class. Actually, I was introduced to Sexton’s poetry because by that time she was long dead. Shortly afterwards, I read her Transformations which will always be one of my favorite books. In her poetic retellings of various Brother Grimm stories, from the most famous to less well known, Sexton shows how fairy tales are still current and powerful, and still can be connected
Disclaimer: ARC via Open Road Media and Netgalley	I was first introduced to Anne Sexton in college during an American Poetry class.
In her poetic retellings of various Brother Grimm stories, from the most famous to less well known, Sexton shows how fairy tales are still current and powerful, and still can be connected to the modern day.
Open Road Media took care to preserve each poems structure and look.
In this collection, one can not only see that but also how fairy tale and myth inspired/influenced her writing even before Transformations.
Sexton’s poetry has long had the reputation being dark, but that is a simplistic description.
If you're just thinking of approaching Sexton and don't quite know where to begin, start with the poems "The Double Image," "Her Kind," "The Operation," "All My Pretty Ones" or "Live" (among a million others)--or with the books Love Poems or Transformations.
Max Kumin's introduction to this book is great as well, and she probably articulates all of this far better than I can.
Anne Sexton has pulled me through many a tough time, many a creative dry-spell, and if I could carry this book (and Ariel) with me at all times, I'd consider myself damn lucky.
Here, it is more evident than in the poems before it.Here, she is shining on the top of the world.Transformations is frequently recognized as Anne’s best collection, or maybe I’m just telling myself that I’ve read it.
People will try to write like her, and probably already have, but she is the kind of poet and person that only comes once every century, millennium, and she is one-of-a-kind.She would’ve died by now even if she hadn’t killed herself, probably.Maybe it had to happen.Reading these poems, I felt insane.
I've carried this book around for a long time now and I think I'll continue to do so.
Is there a match in the world to For my lover returning to his wife? I don't think so....and then To my Little girl, My StringbeanThe motherly advice that "Dear Linda, Women are born twice"Her words are perfect in so many ways.There are poems that go too far for my to enjoy them - I like some darkness in life, but I've been through my melodramatic stage already...so I don't need it quite as much....that aside - read Transformations in its entirety - the reveal it gives to fairytales is a fabulous peel of veneer and disturbing use of imagination!!
Sometimes brilliant, sometime baffling, frequently both.
Beautiful, strong, and sad. These are not poems for the faint of heart. I appreciated reading her complete works, as this volume provided a fuller picture of the artist and her transformation over time. The anger and the darkness grow as the years pass, but Sexton never loses her focus and her courage.
Favorite collections:Love PoemsThe Death NotebookThe Awful Rowing Toward GodFavorite poem: Wanting To Die"Suicides have already betrayed the body."--"my death from the wrists, two name tags, blood worn like a corsage to bloom"--"All day I've built a lifetime and now the sun sinks to undo it"--"To die whole riddled with nothing but desire for it, is like breakfast after love."
I want to love it, but it is rare that I come across a poem or poet that I really enjoy.
I want a poem to speak to me on a personal level; that is what a good poem is supposed to do.
For me, a great deal of poetry is like a moody acquaintance that could be fascinating if he wasn't so difficult to like.
The first poem by Anne Sexton that I read was "Her Kind" and just like that I was hooked.
Perhaps part of the reason Anne's poetry speaks to me is because I understand the dark place she often writes from.
I originally gave this four stars because Anne Sexton is far from perfect and there are poems of hers (esp. Transformations) that I don't like that much but then again, when she's on, it's pretty much as close as I'm ever going to come to smoking crack. Really, I love how she can pile on the similes as if they were college students piling into a phone booth.
The Complete Poems of Anne Sexton brings together the eight books published in Sexton's lifetime ( To Bedlam and Part Way Back ,  All My Pretty Ones ,  Live or Die ,  Love Poems ,  Transformations ,  The Book of Folly ,  The Death Notebooks ,  The Awful Rowing Toward God ), and the two books published posthumously ( 45 Mercy Street ,  Words for Dr. Y: Uncollected Poems with Three Stories )...From  To Bedlam and Part Way Back ...I am thirty this November.You are still small, in your fourth year.W
My father, time meanwhilehas made it unimportant who you are looking for.I'll never know what these faces are all about.I lock them into their book and throw them out.This is the yellow scrapbook that you beganthe year I was born; as crackling now and wrinklyas tobacco leaves: clippings where Hoover outranthe Democrats, wiggling his dry finger at meand Prohibition; news where the Hindenburg wentdown and recent years where you went flushon war.
I've always been drawn to confessional poetry, so inevitably one of the first poets I came across when I started researching this genre was Anne Sexton.
Anne Sexton was a brilliant poet with a brutally honest voice and I was hooked.
Her life, heartbreaking and tumultuous is basically chronicled in her collection of poems throughout the years.
The Complete Poems by Anne Sexton is exactly what it claims to be.
It is a massive and truly complete collection.
*I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review*
A Note on the Text, by Linda Gray SextonHow It Was: Maxine Kumin on Anne Sexton--To Bedlam and Part Way Back (1960)--All My Pretty Ones (1962)--Live or Die (1966)--Love Poems (1969)--Transformations (1971)--The Book of Folly (1972)--The Death Notebooks (1974)--The Awful Rowing Toward God (1975) Posthumously Published Work Editor's Note--Mercy Street (1976)Editor's Note--Words for Dr. Y. (1978)Last Poems--Admonitions to a Special Person--In Excelsis--Uses--As It Was Written--Lessons in Hunger--Lo
A Note on the Text, by Linda Gray SextonHow It Was: Maxine Kumin on Anne Sexton--To Bedlam and Part Way Back (1960)--All My Pretty Ones (1962)--Live or Die (1966)--Love Poems (1969)--Transformations (1971)--The Book of Folly (1972)--The Death Notebooks (1974)--The Awful Rowing Toward God (1975)
  Posthumously Published Work
Editor's Note--Mercy Street (1976)Editor's Note--Words for Dr. Y. (1978)Last Poems--Admonitions to a Special Person--In Excelsis--Uses--As It Was Written--Lessons in Hunger--Love Letter Written in a Burning BuildingIndex of Titles
I've been reading Anne Sexton's poems for months now. For those who don't like poetry, her work could change your mind.
Anne Sexton is one of my favorite poets. Confessional poets have always appealed to me with their raw honesty and intensity.

I had read a little of Anne Sexton over the years, not much, but I had remembered rather liking what I'd read.
The Sylvia Plath comparisons are often made, but I like Sexton's accounts of depression and bloodied tampons quite a bit more -- I never got over Plath's melodrama, nor her studied misery.
With Sexton, I feel like I'm getting the real thing, the 1950s mad housewife of legend as seen in the wild.
I used to read poems the way I eat salad, with a sense that it is not entirely enjoyable, but probably good for me.
This is probably not good, especially when writing a 'review' of a poetry collection.
Especially one like Anne Sexton's Collected because I have a definite sense, reading other reviews, that her work is variable in quality.
For a general ignoramus like me, Sexton had the legendary aura of a rock star.
I don't like comparing writers or creating league tables of artists, but, much as I adore Plath, I think I prefer Sexton.
Really enjoyed reading her collection of poems. It was interesting to get a glimpse into her tortured self. Besides Transformations, which is one of my favorite collections, I really like "All My Pretty Ones" (the poem) and "The Starry Night," which is a tribute to Van Gogh's painting but light-heartedly depressing it almost makes you chuckle at the same time. The juxtaposition between a painting that is serene and beautiful and her depression is so....beautiful.
In a word: AMAZING!
But I love every line, every word chosen.
My hair rising like smoke from the car window.
She sees to oars and oarlocks for the dinghy, has placed wild flowers at the window at breakfast, sat by the potter's wheel at midday, set forth three children under the moon, three cherubs drawn by Michelangelo, done this with her legs spread out in the terrible months in the chapel.
If you glance up, the children are there like delicate balloons resting on the ceiling.
Climb her like a monument, step after step.
Her poems were about so many different things from death, to love and sex.
It's a courtship with life and death and all things crammed in the middle.
"Even so,I kept right on going on,a sort of human statement,lugging myself as ifI were a sawed-off bodyin the trunk, the steamer trunk.This became a perjury of the soul.It became an outright lieand even though I dressed the bodyit was still naked, still killed.It was caughtin the first place at birth,like a fishBut I played it, dressed it up,dressed it up like somebody's doll.Is life something you play?And all the time wanting to get rid of it?And further, everyone yelling at youto shut up.
And on I play at my own life....Wonderful collection but I am biased.
Probably since I first read Federico Garcia Lorca's poems.
Still, among all these brilliant pieces Transformations with her interpretations of famous fairytales, and her early poems are probably the ones I loved the most.
The only thing I didn't care much about is her more religious influenced work, which is, while it's still beautifully written, simply not my cup of tea.Favourite Poems: Some Foreign Letters | Unknown Girl in the Maternity Ward | The Moss of His Skin | The Starry Night | The Abortion | Love Song | The Interrogation of the Man of Many Hearts | Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs | Rapunzel | Cinderella | Red Riding Hood | Hansel and Gretel | Briar Rose | The Assassin | The Other | The Sermon of the Twelve Acknowledgements | Keeping the City | Where It Was at Back Then | Killing the Love | The Red Dance | Letters to Dr. Y.
I don't know how it is that I never spent much time reading Anne Sexton until now, but I absolutely love her work.
I love this woman.
Here's a poem I'm digging:Jesus Suckles by Anne Sexton, from Book of Folly, 1972Mary, your greatwhite apples make me glad.I feel your heart work itsmachine and I doze like a fly.I cough like a bird on its worm.I’m a jelly-baby and you’re my wife.You’re a rock and I the fringy algae.You’re a lily and I’m the bee that gets inside.I close my eyes and suck you in like a fire.I grow.
I grow.
This collection is my constant. It never fails to awe me. My favorite Sexton poems have changed over the years - but she has never diminished in my view. "Big Boots of Pain" & "The Risk" are currently 2 of my favorite poems. Anyone who reads through this collection will recognize Sexton as far exceeding the confines of 'college chick poet' that is too often stamped on her.
