https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60510.Poison_Study
SO SO SO SO GOOD! Yelena was amazing and had such great character development in the story. The romance took the back seat in the book and instead focused a lot about the conflict at hand. So good and Valek....SWOON!!I just got the second book in the trilogy Magic Study and cannot wait to read it! I'll be talking about Poison Study in my March Wrap Up video!
“Poisoned, pursued and living with a psychopath. Not what I would consider the good life. Death has its perks.”  Well living with a psychopath Valek is a perk in my humble opinion. The story Yelena is waiting to be executed and she's made peace with that, but then the Commander's right hand (who also happens to be an assassin) approaches her with an offer; she can either be executed as planned or she can become the Commander's new food taster. Yelena naturally picks the latest and she's introd
Well living with a psychopath Valek is a perk in my humble opinion.
One of the reasons I started reading Poison Study (besides the gorgeous cover and the premise) was the assumption that it resembles Throne of Glass, which I adore.
Poison Study is different.
Valek contemplated to kill Yelena twice, he was rude and manipulative and he put his duty above everything else.
But yet Yelena found a place in his black heart and held it with a strong grip.
One of the finest OTPs, ladies and gentlemen!You haven't read Poison Study yet?
Instead of seeing Yelena get executed, she is taken to the office of the man who will cause a profound change in her life, Valek.
I loved seeing Yelena come into her own.
I think it was interesting to see the inner workings of the system that the Commander had set up through Yelena's eyes.
That was the best way to write about a character like Valek.
She had to come to realize this, or she couldn't love Valek, a man who kills for a living, and must do it without letting remorse weigh him down.Poison Study was a book that I thoroughly enjoyed.
"It's a dirty way to fight, but I'm late for lunch." Initial Final Page Thoughts.I think I’m broken… why didn’t I love this one? High Points.The premise. Poisons. The setting. The baddies. The magic. Valek. Close combat. Acrobatics. Fire festivals. Valek without his shirt on. Ari. Janco. Maren. Tree climbing. Chocolate. Delicious food. Kick ass ladies. Secret Valek without his shirt…in a pile of hay. Low Points.The narration. I know Yelena is supposed to be educated but I found it difficult to
Initial Final Page Thoughts.I think I’m broken… why didn’t I love this one?
I know Yelena is supposed to be educated but I found it difficult to believe she would casually throw words like “mucilaginous” into conversation… I don’t know.
I was tempted to place you in a ‘Hero’ section, Valek, but I stopped myself because at the moment you are still in the love interest zone.
They already have the uniform.Theme Tune.I always find it difficult to find songs for historical fiction… because they never seem to fit with the subject matter.EXCEPT THIS ONE.Poison by The Prodigy.What?!If you disagree… imagine it sung by an artist such as Agnes Obel or Laura Marling.
12/29/17 - ON SALE for $1.99: http://amzn.to/2xmtT6EReviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsI've been wanting to reread this series for like two years. No lie. It's been 6 or 8 years since the last time I read it, and I remembered really liking it, but not much else. But guess what? NEW BOOK! So yeah, just prior to the release of  Shadow Study  seemed like an excellent time to get my reread on, and guys . . . it was even better than I remembered it. That. Has. NEVER. Happened.Yelena, a self-confessed m
Valek, the head of the Commander's security offers her the position, and when she accepts Yelena discovers that he will also be responsible for her training, BUT .
I believe he says something like, "if you can survive this, nothing else will accidentally kill you, and you won't be a waste of my valuable time and effort," just before dosing her with the moste potente poison he has available.Nice guy, that Valek .
In Poison Study, you grow with Yelena as she grows, begin to trust as she trusts, feel the bitter disappointment of betrayal when she is betrayed, and barely dare to allow yourself to hope as something more than friendship begins to blossom.
Poison Study is easily one of the best young adult books I have read this year. So far, the genre has become increasingly disappointing to me and I was beginning to lose faith in novels marketed at older teens. What I really don't understand, though, is why Snyder decided* to make Poison Study a young adult book. In my opinion, even though it was good, the book could have been even better if she'd allowed for Yelena/Valek smut and instead marketed the book to a more adult audience. It's not eve
Poison Study is easily one of the best young adult books I have read this year.
What I really don't understand, though, is why Snyder decided* to make Poison Study a young adult book.
The only fantasy books that have ever really impressed me are those by J.K. Rowling and Paul Stewart, and they were more focused on characters at least resembling humans for the most part, as was Poison Study.I have to say that I loved Valek as a character and was pleasantly surprised to see how well the romance between him and Yelena worked.
I loved this book.
I loved the heroine; stubborn, tenacious, determined.
I loved the world that Snyder created.
Me swooning throughout the whole book because I have a thing for assassins?
I need to have my head examined.)But, the relationship between Yelena and Valek was only part of this wonderful story.
The entire world was facinating.
I literally picked this book up and did not put it down until that evening when I finished it.
I'm going to get the next books, Magic Study and Fire Study, as soon as possible.
Bravo to Maria Snyder for this wonderful novel.
I am torn on reviewing this book. On one hand it had the potential to be the best fantasy novel I have ever read. The world was intriguing, the characters endearing, the plot fascinating. Beyond that, the author managed to explore fascinating themes of mortality, right of choice, overcoming psychological demons, and tests of loyalty. I kept willing the writing to be better than it was. I would really love to see this author mature and develop her skill into something really worthwhile, because her story is definitely unique. Unfortunately her writing is elementary and ofttimes very awkward.
❝Poisoned, pursued and living with a psychopath. Not what I would consider the good life. Death has its perks.❞ Having Throne of Glass vibes since reading page 1 up to page 18, I knew I would enjoy this book quite a lot. Even though this was written long before ToG, I knew it would be a little similar since the beginning it started off like in ToG. Yelena was in chains and she was taken to the General, where she was also made an offer as to being the food taster for the Commander of Ixia or bei
She started off weak and like a stumble person, but she faced her challenges and tried to not get in the way of other peoples lives, taking care of her business and trying to make sure she needs to accomplish what she needs to finish.
She turned out to be someone not knowing how to be a poison taster into becoming a badass woman, still learning from her mistakes and being trained and actually accepting them.
He showed Yelena the different kinds of poisons and how to be the taster and how everything's done, only ending up falling in love with her as she did with him.
This was just as good the second time!
2.5 to 3.0 stars. Let me begin this review by saying that I think I’m becoming much harder to please when it comes to fantasy stories so please keep that in mind. Having read quite a few, the standard fantasy plot elements just don’t produce the same warm and fuzzy feeling that I used to experience when reading these kinds of stories. I must have hit my tolerance threshold for the fantasy “drug” because I find that I am needing greater and greater amounts of awesomeness in order to get that "sp
I am now more selective in what I read in the fantasy genre and generally try and seek out books that have truly exceptional characters or unique and memorable world-building or just "off the chart" quality writing and dialogue.
Anyway, for those new to fantasy or those that are true fantasy junkies, you may love this as it is certainly a QUALITY book.
I had no problems with any of the critical elements (i.e., characters, writing, world-building, magic and plot).
I just wasn’t blown away by anything and when I was finished I didn’t feel like I had experienced anything new that I would remember much beyond writing this review.
4.5 Stars.Full review to come.Ari and Janco are my favorite!! Of course I love Valek and Yalena, but Ari and Janco are my puppies!! I guess I have a thing for adorable/funny twins!! So much love!!!!!It's been more than 7 years since i read this book. Time to finish this series!! I've had these books for a while now, the pages have turned yellowish, and they smell like old books. I love it.First line of the book: "Locked in darkness that surrounded me like a coffin,  i had nothing to distract me
4.5 Stars.Full review to come.Ari and Janco are my favorite!!
Of course I love Valek and Yalena, but Ari and Janco are my puppies!!
I guess I have a thing for adorable/funny twins!!
So much love!!!!!It's been more than 7 years since i read this book.
Time to finish this series!!
I've had these books for a while now, the pages have turned yellowish, and they smell like old books.
I love it.First line of the book:
"Locked in darkness that surrounded me like a coffin,  i had nothing to distract me from my memories." 
Katie Mcgrath is my Yelena..[image error]
However, this didn't satisfy what I crave in fantasy books, so it just didn't personally check every box I would have ideally liked.The characters in this felt a bit muddled.
From character descriptions to their motivations and backstories, they felt a bit at arm's length.
Additionally, I thought the lead female character was written in a very general model of girl doesn't know she has powers/girl was abused and has to overcome her oppressors/girl is taken from jail to serve the government (*dry cough*).
I'm just so damn happy that I have the other two books in the trilogy so I don't have to wait with ordering them.This will definitely be one of the my favorite series I've read all year.Poison Study follows a young woman named Yelena, who has been in the Commander's dungeons for almost a year upon killing a man.
BUT Snyder never makes you feel like all you're doing it reading about Yelena training.
So while I just recently learned that this series isn't actually YA, but adult, it makes more sense (even though I feel like this series is marketed towards a YA audience) do you know how many times I praised at the fact that Valek wasn't an eighteen year old?
What do you ask for usually in a young-adult fantasy book?➳ Relatable and actually smart heroine?
Let's start with Yelena, she is far from being your usual young-adult heroine, smart, wise and strong, she tried her best to survive all the hardships.
I don't think I loved any character because of that in this book because honestly, I don't remember what the secondary characters looked like and it's not the author's fault because she did describe them when Yelena first saw them.
Both, Valek and Yelena know that the law, the Code of Behavior, has its flaws (we'll get to this later).
Poison Study is easily one of the best-written and underrated high fantasy, young adult series that I’ve come across, and I’m so happy that I FINALLY gave this a go, as it’s been collecting dust on my TBR for YEARS.
I also enjoyed how character-driven this novel was, rather than emphasising the fantasy aspects (although magic is very much prevalent).Yelena was a clever and determined young woman, who was given the chance to escape execution, in exchange for taking up the position as the Commander’s food taster, a potentially lethal occupation.
Although I will admit that the revelation that he was Yelena’s love interest definitely took me by surprise (so you do not need to worry about instalove!).
I did really enjoy this book, but think I was just expecting a bit more from the end.The basic plot is Yelena killed her sadistic abuser but is saved from execution by accepting a position as the Commander's food taster.
This was a really cool world but the story felt like it just barely touched the surface of every plot point.Valek (the guy who trains Yelena in poison tasting) was easily my favorite part!
I think this story would've worked better as an adult book since there was a pretty intense & traumatic backstory for Yelena (rape trigger warning btw) and the villain was doing creative horrible things that could've grown into a really great darker tone.
I wanted to know what exactly had happened and way, and I very much hope we will receive further clarification in the following installments.•Now, what really, really bothered me and the reason why I'm not rating the book four stars: the writing.
For this reason, it is more than possible, and maybe even likely, that for many of you it won't be that much of a problem; in that case, feel free to consider I rated the book four stars and dive into it, because it's definitely, definitely worth a try.
After mysteries are introduced and back stories told, she encounters a mysterious character who reveals she is "special" and, imagine that, has a unique power.So as much as I hate to admit that this a FORMULA novel, I don't mind admitting that I LOVED it.So yeah, it's AWE-some!The reason these durn formulas exist is because they work.
Sorry about the long gripe but I have OCD when it comes to literature.I don't like anything in my books that isn't supposed to be there, including names written inside the cover, book plates, highlighting, and trampolines in fantasy novels!Imagine if Samwise and Frodo had stumbled upon a trampoline on their journey!?
She could be poisoned at any moment, and if she tries to escape, she could die of the poison given to her at her first meeting with the Commander's chief of intelligence (he gives her the antidote daily).
It was good enough that I plowed through it in two days (okay, I had to break for sleep and company), and now I want to get my hands on the next books.
This review is for all three books, since I think most people will check Book 1 to see if they should begin a series.This series has a really fascinating set-up, and I liked a number of the characters, including Valek and Janco and Ari. It took me a long time to get through the first book, however, and I probably would not have kept going if I hadn't purchased all three books as a Kindle bundle.I found the language difficult to get used to, since it veered between a rather mannered, old-fashioned style (no doubt to make it seem as if it might have taken place in a different time/place) and very young, very modern teen-speak.
It really has to earn it and truthfully, Poison Study almost did.The writing was surprisingly rich and colourful, the characters were great.
Valek was great.
At some points he was your stock-standard superhero, protective saviour cliche but his loyalty, dedication and sneakyness really added some more dimensions to that.The plot...
oh, the plot!
Okay, in some instances it was really, really great.
Except the big reveal was painfully, painfully obvious.
I don't want to spend umpteen chapters screaming at the characters about what the beans are and how they're connected to everything.
If it's that flipping obvious then, as an author, you need to be just a little more sneaky.
Poison Study just came out in Turkish as Zehir Ustasi (Poison Master)! Pretty cool - eh?
I want to know who this couple that everyone love is. Very excited.
"You've slipped under my skin, invaded my blood and seized my heart. You have poisoned me"~ Valek When I sit and read a book in one sitting it gives weight to the Awesomeness of the read. This jewel was brilliant from the very first line. I'm so glad I decided to give it a read. I can't wait to move unto book two. I loved every blinking thing about it. The storyline, The heroine, the side characters, Valek and lastly, but by no means least, Valek ; )) The storyline was fantastic, the characters
You have poisoned me"~ Valek
When I sit and read a book in one sitting it gives weight to the Awesomeness of the read.
I'm so glad I decided to give it a read.
I can't wait to move unto book two.
The storyline, The heroine, the side characters, Valek and lastly, but by no means least, Valek ; )) The storyline was fantastic, the characters had depth, whilst being engaging, memorable and lovable all at once.
My only regret was not reading this book sooner.
This was me literally whilst reading this book
This is a must read, I guaranteed that you will: 
10 Valek is Bae Stars
its been two weeks+ but better late than never right?)Plot : 19-year-old Yelena, who was to be executed for the murder of a General's son, was given another option, to serve as a food-poison taster for the commander.
Thoughts - I enjoyed the plot in general, especially when Yelena was practising how to detect poisons in food.
Initial quick thoughts I really enjoyed the plot but the writing was really flat and lacked emotions.
This was so addicting.
My favorite thing about Poison Study was Valek.
He reminded me of Sherlock!
He was so intelligent, and loved to challenge himself even under bad circumstances.
(probably even more so then) I loved Yelena as a main character!
I loved when she would build up enough confidence to stand up for herself.
Those were some of my favorite moments.
The friendship between Yelena, Ari, and Janco was fantastic.
Female and male platonic friendships is something I rarely see in books, so it was quite refreshing.Now, I did think this book lacked world building.
Snyder book and I liked it very much.
It is one of those books which is very hard to put down.
Fortunately the next book is lined up ready.........I enjoyed everything about this book.
Yelena is a genuinely strong female main character.
One who can actually defeat a baddy without a man coming in at the end to save her.
Best of all she is only in love with one man, not two.
That is very important to me these days in YA books!I liked the world building, the magic system, the characters, the pacing of the book.
I liked everything:) An excellent book.
I think I might love this book as much as my all time favourite one, The Bird and the Sword. UmMmM. I’m in trouble because I’m about to binge read this whole series.<333 Valek
But her life is changed forever when she is offered the chance to live, at a price.
Valek : A skilled, mysterious, deadly assassin, the Commander's right-hand man who offers Yelena a chance to live by becoming the Commander's food taster.
You've caused me considerable trouble and I've contemplated ending your life twice since I've known you.” Valek's warm breath in my ear sent a shiver down my spine.“But you’ve slipped under my skin, invaded my blood and seized my heart.”“That sounds more like a poison than a person,” was all I could say.
