https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835690.False_Scent
Oddly, it is missing a theatrical feature common to most (if not all) of her other novels: there is no "Cast of Characters" at the beginning.Mary Bellamy, for thirty years the leading lady of the London stage, is about to hold a magnificent party to celebrate her fiftieth birthday.
All these arguments come to a head with a ferocious tantrum during the party - and then she is found dead, rather gruesomely killed with a strong weed-killer put into the perfume spray.The character of Mary Bellamy is repellent; the success of False Scent is the way that you sympathise strongly with the murderer and don't want them to be discovered.
Always love Ngaio Marsh books and this one was no exception.
Like most cozy mysteries, this one features a murder victiom you love to hate.
I like the way the book begins with an imagined funeral for Mary Bellamy and ends with the actual funeral.
Inspector Roderick Alleyn and his Sgt. Fox work together, Alleyn working the upper class while Fox works the servants.
These books take place during the 1930s and 40s so class distinctions are very evident.
I like the colorful characters that give the book punch; Bertie, Pinky and Octavius Brown.
Some Ngaio Marsh books are written with a more serious tone.
Re reading after 25 years and Ngaio Marsh still seems a genius and Alleyn the perfect detective...
Mary Bellamy is excited to celebrate her 50th birthday with a party in which all the best stars in the theater world will attend in Ngaio Marsh’s False Scent.
Then, Mary’s ward, Richard Dakers, an up-and-coming playwright, writes a brand new type of play, and Mary assumes that the lead character, a young woman, was written for herself.
At Mary’s big birthday party, the producers for Richard’s new play arrange for Anelida to play the lead, but when Mary gets wind of this, she throws the tantrum to beat all tantrums.
An aging stage actress facing her 50th birthday, a wealthy husband, a ward who is a successful playwright, a young new actress who is his love interest, a milieu of playwrights and fans, a gift of expensive perfume, and a bottle of deadly poison to kill bugs on plants = a formula for a murder (or two).Phrase Marsh uses in several of her books: "nod like a mandarin" - it sounds politically insensitive. I only found one mention of what it meant online so far "nod in exaggeration, nod urgently and incessantly."
However, the protagonist is a young woman, and Mary Bellamy is celebrating her 50th birthday (although she would never admit it.) This plus some other incidents set off a tantrum, from which she more or less recovers in time for the birthday party.
This sets Mary off again, especially when she hears that the niece is being considered for the starring role in the play.
Alleyn and Fox have to deal with some 50 people at the party, Mary's husband and his dicky heart, a family friend, a group of affected actors, a drunk doctor, and the infighting of Mary's two servants.
I didn't like Mary Bellamy at all,She was so controlling.Just because you are the face of one of the
Skipped #20 in the series, as it is not owned in my library system AND because a friend (whose opinion I trust totally) gave it a pretty bad review.
Loved this one, although as in many, some of the characters are totally unlikable.
Another friend who has read most of the Alleyn titles said once she prefers the theatre ones, and this was one of those.
Also, I have left off reading Marsh for about 3 months while I was going through other books on my shelf, and it was just very comfortable to return to Alleyn and Fox and the Scotland Yard crew.
I always feel so smug when I figure out the murderer ahead of time. In this case, I had said murderer pegged from first appearance -"he (or she - no spoilers here!) is going to do it!" And I guessed why and even how. Well done, self.
This is not Marsh at her best, though it is still kinda fun to read.The plot is okay and there are an appropriate number of twists and an ending I did not predict.
That alone makes the read worthwhile.But this is far from her best writing, and the characters (aside from Mary Bellamy) are less vivid and distinctive than usual.
I get a bit tired of the upper crust social scene where fifty people "is not an enormous party" and people are called "Pinky," "Bertie," "Dicky," and "Timmy." It is also difficult to see a play called "Husbandry in Heaven" as likely to be the serious drama it is described as being.And several bigger things.
#21 in the suave and debonair, Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn mystery series. Alleyn is detached, sophisticated and expensively educated.A drama queen, beloved British actress Mary Bellamy, is murdered at her own 50th birthday party choked by a deadly insecticide. Basking in the glow of her most adoring fans - who all happened to be her most duplicitous enemies - Mary would make her final performance. Nearly all the characters are involved in the theater.The novel covers a single day.
She likes her actors, doesn't she? Well, and likes killing them off.I enjoyed the story, but it felt less complex than usual. And I found myself dissatisfied at how the murderer (view spoiler)[ended up dying at the end. It seems like this has become a common way to avoid bringing people to justice who the reader might possibly like, and I'm noticing it more and more. (hide spoiler)]
It's pretty rare for me to completely hate the victim in a murder mystery, but it does happen. This was one of those times. In fact, when the fatal event finally took place I couldn't help thinking "Good! They had it coming!" It was a fun read for me and also very satisfying in a way that probably isn't completely healthy, haha. Definitely one of Marsh's better works.
The book was written quite some time ago, and it showed. The people were sooo worried about appearances! So outdated. It seems that it took me ages to finish the book, although it was not very long. Phew! But I managed to finish.
Inspector Alleyn once again steps into one of my (and Marsh's) favorite worlds -- the theater, populated by self-absorbed actors and even-more-histrionic staff, Alleyn's cool incisiveness is a sharp sword or a splash of cold water.
This one was all about the characters. Well done.
So viele leere Worthülsen habe ich noch nie gelesen. Langeweile pur und eine lächerliche Auflösung.
Too much perfume.
Some fun twists in this one.
Very theatrical, loved the ending. Not because I didn't like it, which I did, but because of who did it and the explanation of why they did.
Amusing
Always a good read from Ngaio Marsh.
I like all of the Ngaio Marsh books and that includes this one.I recommend this series.
I did not plan to spend my whole day transfixed by this story but it was impossible to put it down. It takes place all in one day, is very clever, and I still did not guess whodunit.
I was kind of annoyed at this one. It felt like it was over before it started, and the resolution was not satisfying.
This one centers on an "aging" actress who throws two massive temperaments on the occasion of her 50th birthday and enrages all the important people in her life—leading to her murder by a method that is reflected in the title [and foreshadowed by what we might call a Chekhovian spray gun of pesticide].
Marsh herself was active in the theater her entire life; she was triply gifted in writing, drama, and art.
Also, even though Marsh herself was in her sixties, I believe, when she wrote this book, she portrays people of fifty and sixty as physical wrecks, even using the epithet "elderly" to label them.
As with so many of Ngaio Marsh's novels, False Scent is set in the world of the theater.
(Marsh was herself a theater director.) The novel centers on the murder of Mary Bellamy, a gifted but aging and volatile stage actress.
Ngaio Marsh, while generous to the ingenues who pepper her mystery novels, is as bad as any 19th century misogynist when it comes to middle-aged women.
It saddens me that Marsh, who never married and lived a most unconventional life in the literary and theater worlds, doesn't champion her own sex more.False Scent, while flawed, makes up for it with a twist ending that you'll never see coming.
It all comes to a head at her 50th birthday party, when it seems that one after another of all those close to her--protege, best friends, director, manager, dresser--have betrayed her in some way, and she lets them feel her wrath.
Then someone lets her feel his or hers, and she is found dead in her room in the middle of the party, brought down by SlayPest insecticide.
The details are wonderful--you can see the house, the clothes, the people, and smell the horrible perfume Mary practically bathed in.
False Scent is a well-paced mystery where none of the characters are particularly likeable, and where everybody looks suspect.This being my fourth venture into books by Ngaio Marsh, I'm just beginning to get to know Inspector Alleyn.
If you're a mystery reader that gets attached to the detective figure and like to rely on him/her as the solid rock around which the chaotic events revolve, then Alleyn is more than adequate for your needs.Considering the extensive background that Marsh gives us, it comes as no surprise when the victim is finally murdered.
This is one of Marsh's theater books, although this one is set in the home of an aging actress, not in the theatre itself.
This one isn't quite as successful as previous forays; perhaps it's the remove of the action from the theater to a private home, and perhaps it's the uncompromisingly harsh light Marsh turns on the victim, who has been charming and beloved for so many years but has suddenly turned into a monster upon reaching 50.
