https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83829.The_Owl_Service
Sometimes along the way you find a really special book in a very unexpected place.
One of the criticisms often thrown at authors is that they do too much tell and not enough show.
Well Garner is an author who does not worry about telling at all.
If I had read this as a child I would not have slept for weeks!Alan Garner is a very skilful author.
I loved the way the mother only ever made her presence felt by proxy.
Events culminated as they do at the end of a story and the author just stopped.
Just the end.
(view spoiler)[perhaps i secretly yearn to replace my own muddy, goulash-like ancestry with something mystical, with ancient secrets flowing through my veins and a terrrible destiny to be fulfilled!
medium new potatoes, peeled and cut into 1⁄2" cubes1 tomato, cored and chopped1 priest or pastor or other religious official, cored and chopped *optional1 Italian frying pepper, chopped1 lb chubby Italian man, chopped *optionalthe blood of a young or at least young-ish virgin.
Add onions, cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft and translucent, about 10 minutes.
Stir in tomatoes and peppers; cook for 2 minutes.
It also certainly helps if you have read the story in the 'Mabinogion' that this book is loosely based upon.
Reading through some of the reviews here, I can see that some people have found fault with the fact that he almost completely omits description of any kind in this novel; very little information is provided about how the characters feel.
And it is exactly this level of economy that makes the book work; the reader's confusion mirrors that of the main characters.
There is one passage in the novel that in my mind completely encapsulates the main theme of the book: 'What is the power?' said Alison.
Every so often, that evocative phrase would bubble out of my subconscious and I'd think of it for a moment before going back to my everyday life.She wants to be flowers but you keep making her owls.Despite that deep memory, I've never reread the book.
But it works.However, I may choose not to read the book itself again, and instead hold the glow of the story to myself like a warm and pleasant memory where some of the magic comes from the blurring of the actual experience.
The Owl Service is the kind of classic-style middle-grade fantasy novel that schools should have on its shelves instead of just Twilight and The Hunger Games. With its imagination, mystical story and creative characters, it's a wonderful book that you'll never forget.
The Owl Service is a very, very powerful book.
He is only changed into an eagle, though, and he comes back and eventually kills Gronw, and Blodeuwedd is turned into an owl in punishment.The central idea of The Owl Service is this story replaying over and over again in a Welsh valley -- that the story has so much power that it can't help but keep replaying itself like a traumatic memory.
And in the book it's mapped onto a fraught story of conflicting loyalties, class difference, the problems between the Welsh and the English...
Very odd story, which I have thought a lot about since reading. I didn't know anything about it at the time, but it was advertised as a children's classic, though I had never heard of it. Later I realized it's a) based on Welsh mythology, and b) a British children's classic, so a lot of the social issues went over my head at first. But definitely worth the read, spooky without being too scary, and reminiscent of Diana Wynne Jones or Edward Eager, but more mature.
I kept waiting for the 'tragic romance' of the premise to begin--frankly, I was waiting for any kind of action to take place--yet nothing of the kind ever developed.
What kind of an ending was that?
As I started it, when I was still fairly excited about it and the characters were searching for clues, I thought to myself, "Huh, this kind of compares to Susan Cooper's Over Sea, Under Stone." As I continued reading, though, that comparison flew right out the window...just like those damned paper owls from The Owl Service.
It is, for me, maybe not Garner's finest, but four stars because it is not the great novel that is Thursbitch or the complex writing of Red Shift seems mean-spirited.
It is in consequence able to explore its big themes alongside teenage attraction, jealousy, class, and a whole load of other issues as part of the jumble of growing up, in much the same way as Red Shift does, but situated itself deep into a Celtic landscape and legend-cycle.
Garner, It seems to me, is exploring what happens when, unthinking, we blunder into a set of past stories, whether these are the stuff of legend or our own family stories.
Wow, a very intense little book.
Considering that it’s a children’s book, there are some very adult themes addressed.
The resentment of the Welsh, who are seeing English families usurping homes in their communities for holiday cottages, is prominent as well.Add to all of this a bit of Celtic mythology playing itself out through the people available to it and a spooky layer of ambiguity overlays the whole tale.
I also found the prejudice displayed by Alison’s stepfather, Clive, and stepbrother, Roger, against the Welsh people to be distressing.
An interesting little tale with supernatural overtones.
The best thing about this book is the elliptical strangeness of it, the odd otherworldly language and broken narrative structure yet...
the worst thing about this book is the elliptical strangeness of it, the odd otherwordly language and broken narrative structure.
I don't see how this is a book for children.
The children in the book do not talk like children, or adults for that matter.
Everyone talks in circles and riddles.
It is a difficult book to understand, but perhaps worth the slog for the atmosphere.
The story and the characters are fractured, but the atmosphere is there, whole, and pulsing with power.
We are never given any real indication of the ages of the three youths, though I figured Alison's mystery illness of "gripes" that opens the novel was probably menstrual pains; given the fact that she becomes the catalyst for the paranormal action, that gives us the adolescent-girl-trope so beloved of this sort of book/movie of the period.
Aside from Alison's yellow hair, we have no idea what any of them look like, either.The first third or so of the book was fine and held my attention, but then suddenly it becomes this long drawn out whinge of "oh you mustn't talk to me, Mummy doesn't like it." You know what?
Most references to time are left out, like "The next day..." or "hours earlier...", so you have no idea what is going on, until you realize halfway into the characters conversation that this must be the next day, or they must have moved to inside the house now b/c this wouldn't make sense if they were still outside.
Sometimes there are no helpful descriptions, like "Roger laughed." Then just when I think I have someone figured out they turn into someone else.
I really like the idea of the story and the way it moves, but nothing is ever explained.
Although marketed as a young adult book, this is actually a very adult book in many ways, and can certainly be enjoyed by much older people.As a huge fan of Celtic mythology, I love the subtle way in which Alan Garner uses the story of Llew and Bloduewedd.
It's an exploration of the way powerful events can affect people through multiple generations.
I have explored the role played by the setting of the Owl Service elsewhere, but I still think it's worth repeating just how closely tied the book is to its landscape.
I was given this book by my father who thought that it would be good. I read the summary and thought that it was a children's book but I read. In the beginning it was okay but soon it became very difficult to read and I ended up reading half of it and skimming every other page to the end. It was very boring.
A strange, engrossing, elliptical novel, which I completely failed to understand when I first read it in my teens.
Garner takes the classic book of medieval Welsh mythology The Mabinogian and retells one of its central stories that of Blodeuwedd, the woman made from flowers.
The faithless Blodeuwedd's story sets off a tale of obsession and revenge which is played out in Garner's novel through the actions of three teenagers, sparked by an encounter with ancient magic.
The narrative makes far more sense if read in conjunction with  The Mabinogian, which like The Tain is a fascinating collection of myth and legend.
There is a lot of dialogue, and the language/vernacular already seems archaic even thought the book was written in the 1960s.
is always my underlying question.This book has LOTS of atmosphere and suspense, and I liked the way the ancient Welsh legend plays out in both the present generation and the one just before it.
Indeed, it seemed more like an adult book to me.
The class and English/Welsh tensions are one of the most notable aspects of the story, and I think that the 40 years which have elapsed since this book was published have totally changed that particular landscape.
It centers around the brief friendship of two English teenagers with a Welsh boy their age.
The depiction of Welsh-English hostilities was the strongest thread of the novel; Gwyn, the Welsh boy, is a great character and his story is subtle but heartbreaking.
There was also a very cool contrast between the social realism and the fantasy elements (which were all straight out of Welsh mythology.)What makes this book especially quirky is the style; it's very sparse, occasionally to the point of being confusing, and is generally very elliptical in terms of storytelling.
In a pastoral Welsh valley, a tragic love story plays itself out anew with each generation.
When three teens discover a set of old dishes with an odd design, the haunting legend is set into motion once more.
His use of plot devices such as books and village gossips to drop hints and tell part of the story is natural, never forced.
The reader must pay close attention to piece the story -- and the relationships of the characters -- together.
Welsh rhymes and pronunciations and British words may be a bit of a challenge for some readers.
The attractive cover art will appeal to teens.
A tightly-written, intense little novel that belies its childlike exterior.After reading the first two books in the Weirdstone of Brisingamen trilogy - more on the third later - one could be forgiven for considering Alan Garner a bit light on the characterisation end of things.
Garner's scenario pays off excruciatingly well: we find ourselves slowly stripped of the false notion that these people know, or even like each other, and discover that beneath the surface lies a tension that simmers between class, expectation, and desire, which frequently erupts into hateful words and irreversible actions.Sound a bit heavy for what has always been marketed as a children's book?
Three resentful teenagers are trapped in a Welsh valley for the summer - trapped between social expectations and the rising power of a myth that haunts the hills.
Gwyn the housekeeper's son is clever and ambitious, but quick-tempered and given to sharp words; Roger is cruel with privilege; and Alison has no idea what she really wants, too quick to cave in for an easy life.
So much is implied rather than spelled out; Garner's trademark oblique dialogue and interrupted sentences weaving impressions in a way that is entirely on point for this turbulent myth.
Like, WHAT EVEN is going on?I don't know how old the three characters were.
I didn't know until one-third of the book that who was who and why were they in the valley.
I don't know what happened at the end.
You just don't know anything because the book refuses to tell you anything.I have so many questions like how much did the people of the valley know about the tale of Blodeuwedd, what the hell went wrong with Gwyn, what did Huw mean when he said that 'she' was hunting?
Lleu, Blodeuwedd and Gronw Pebyr – they are the three who suffer every time, for in them the power of this valley is contained and through them the power is loosed.’ Alison, Roger and Gwyn had become those three…’ Blurb from the 1973 Armada Lion edition.
Two English teenagers, Alison and Roger, have been brought to a quiet Welsh valley by Roger’s father Clive and Alison’s mother (who remains offstage throughout the novel and interestingly, becomes one of those characters of whom we can only draw a picture from the conversations of others) to stay for the summer in a house which once belonged to Alison’s Uncle Bertram.
On the other hand, the book is primarily dialogue based, which was difficult for me as a reader, because the characters have strange speech patterns that I am not used to (they're meant to be Welsh, but to me they sounded partially like West Country people, and partially just incoherent - and not just the slightly mad ones).
His ear for dialogue might be true to some people's speech, but I would struggle to understand many of his characters if I met them in person, and I struggled often to understand what they meant to say in this book.
Garner wrote this in a spare Kitchen Sink Drama style, and it mostly deals with class conflict. Not at all what I was expecting from a Welsh myth. And the ending - I didn't see that coming. I'm not sure that I'd recommend this to any but a rather mature reader, since Garner has made this more a playscript than a novel. It would be hard for many young readers to figure out what's going on and what all the tension is about. It's practically Pinter.
How is it possible to write such a short book with a narrative that feels like pieces that the reader will have to assemble on their own, and make it brimming with themes and ideas? There's mystery, there's myth, the inevitability of a story repeating itself, class division, cultural appropriation, all of this, and more.
Roger’s father and Alison’s mother have recently married and in a way this is a sort of bonding session.
Gwynn is the housekeeper’s son, the same age as Alison and Roger but very much not of the same class.Have I mentioned that this book was written and set in the 60s?
It appears to be flowers, but Alison can also see an owl in the flowers.Those of you who are familiar with Welsh legends might be thinking, hmmm, flowers.
Garner describes it as a ghost story, and it almost feels like you are living through these crazy unexplained events because so much is just described.
I can't believe I haven't reviewed this book.
I read it when it was little, and it scared me quite a lot at the time -- I was a 'fraidy cat.
The subject matter, the story of Blodeuwedd, is something I've been especially interested in ever since.
I thought the story was weird as hell at the time I read it, but I loved it a lot and it made that part of the Mabinogion stick in my head very strongly.
I'll add any fresh thoughts on it if I do.
As childrens books go this is top of the tree. There is so much raw power here it's astounding.The shear strength of myth and emotion are intense, way beyond a standard childrens novel.The TV series as stayed with me ever since I was a child and is word perfect to the book and this is down to the author given free reign, just as it should be.A deserved winner of awards.
Long overdue re-read (or re-listen as I have the audio book.) Despite marketing, this is not a children's book but a young adult novel. A remarkably subtle and complex fantasy that could also be classed as weird fiction. It is one of the creepiest books I've ever read, which is saying something of Garner's talent, as the initial premise is a haunted dinner service.
