https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10746542-the-sense-of-an-ending
The book at first appears, right to the end, to be a rather mundane story of the life of an ordinary man who is neither perceptive about the people around him nor does he see himself in a clear light.
Only at the end is it apparent that there were two different stories being written at the same time and you can perceive all the clues to the second story only in hindsight although they were so clear, you wonder how you could have missed them.
This was two ways of reading a story, one written to be read in the usual way, forwards, and the other backwards, with hindsight.
However, when his girlfriend dumps him for Tony Webster’s friend, he writes the bitterest letter that I’ve read coming from a dumped lover.
Barnes deceives the reader into believing that the character of Tony Webster in the first part of the story will be consistent.
The prose, plot, thethe characters, the sequence of the events, the thoughts that run in Tony Webster’s mind, big revelation in the end… They are all part of the big beautiful ensemble that delivers an exceptionally nice written novella.
You are an old or middle-age man and you are fond of thinking of your what-ifs.Undoubtedly, one of the best books I’ve read this year.
Some examples: “…but what you end up remembering isn’t always the same as what you witnessed.” And “I need to return briefly to a few incidents that have grown into anecdotes, to some approximate memories which time has deformed into certainty.” And “again, I must stress that this is my reading now of what happened then.
Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time.” The book is a Booker Prize winner, so we expect and we get great writing.
(He missed all the self-help books about “never explain…”) He meets with her and they email a bit.
I’m sure in a few years’ time I’ll look back on my GR experience and remember writing thousands of reviews, making millions of comments, and stockpiling near infinite good will from it all.As a glib student, oblivious to his own clichéd thinking, Tony once said that “history is the lies of the winners.” A more nuanced discussion followed, including a quotable line from their brightest, most philosophical friend Adrian: “History is that certainty produced at the point where the imperfections of memory meet the inadequacies of documentation." Later, the classroom discussion led to a related point: "That’s one of the central problems of history, isn’t it, sir?
This is an exploration of memory, exquisitely written as the thoughts of an old man, looking back on his life - good enough to merit 5*, despite the somewhat contrived ending (ironic, given the title).ImageryIt opens with six watery images (an unexpected word in several of them makes them more vivid), each of which form part of the story:“I remember, in no particular order:- a shiny inner wrist;- steam rising from a wet sink as a frying pan is laughingly tossed into it;- gouts of sperm circling a plughole, before being sluiced down the full length of a tall house;- a river rushing nonsensically upstream, its wave and wash lit by half a dozen chasing torch beams;- another river, broad and grey, the direction of its flow disguised by a stiff wind exciting the surface;- bath water long gone cold behind a locked door.”PlotTony and his three friends were somewhat pretentious teenagers, from moderately privileged backgrounds (“one of those suburbs which has stopped concreting over nature at the very last minute, and ever since, smugly claimed rural status”).
I think my years as a philosophy student were actually detrimental to my enjoyment of this short novel about life and memory. The stuff that has left other people reeling in amazement reminded me of little more than just another essay on the mind and the way we think, the way we interpret events and the way our memories can let us down. Mr Barnes is clearly a clever man and his writing is a touch complex but always charming. However, is this really that original anymore?I don't think so. I can
I think my years as a philosophy student were actually detrimental to my enjoyment of this short novel about life and memory.
And, though Barnes thoroughly explores the mind of Tony Webster, I found him to be a painfully bland and unexciting protagonist that no amount of philosophical thought could save.This is a book that will suit people who like to think about everything.
I like, in theory, the idea that everything isn't always as simple as it seems, that things run deeper, that people have hidden and questionable motivations for the things they do and say, and that memory is not the truth but the story we tell ourselves.
Definitely has a plot, but a pathetic one.
What the heck did Tony ever do to anyone except send a crappy letter to an ex-girlfriend who was now going out with one of his best friends?
Nor does younger Adrian's fear of Tony when he mentions being friends with "Mary." And why the heck didn't "The Mother" leave her money to her son who needed the money, rather than sending him off to live in some group home once she died?I've been reading too many books lately.
I had never really intended to read this book, and I certainly had no intention of owning it.  I was browsing in a B&N sitting out a winter storm in Lincoln, Nebraska and ran across of stack of The Sense of an Ending with BOOKER PRIZE WINNER blazoned across the front of the book. I dug through the stack of third printings and there near the bottom was one book with BOOKER PRIZE NOMINEE on the cover. Well it is sort of cosmic for a collector such as I to find one first American edition in the
And call the result common sense."At prep school Adrian was the star impressing his teachers with lines like this.
"History is that certainty produced at the point where the imperfections of memory meet the inadequacies of documentation." No big surprise that Tony spends the rest of his life seeking Adrian's approval.
She is one of those people that think everyone is supposed to understand what is in her head and refuses to give even the most minuscule bit of information to help Tony know what is motivating her decisions.
But then it’s another thing to have to admit that within that already small (but intense, intense) community of readers you are now part of a minority since the majority appear to be besotted with YA/adult romance/fantasy etc.
Which happens when the majority of the minority are all raving about a novel that turns out to be The Sense of an Ending.In Flaubert’s Parrot by JB a guy moons around in France on his own and has thoughts about his life and about Flaubert and you gradually realise that he’s suppressing some horrible thing he doesn’t want to think about.
Read the good Bookers, avoid the Bad. Keep on the sunny side of life.
But I can assure you I am not an asshole now and if I’m to be judged on the kind of person I am, I’d like for that judgment to consider me only in my current adult state, please.
No, the problem with Tony Webster has nothing to do with his high school self—it’s the fact that over the course of forty years, he has not changed one single bit.As Tony divulges the circumstances surrounding a pivotal juncture in his youth, he would have you believe that his best friend was a disloyal SOB, his girlfriend a Cutthroat Bitch, and he perfectly justified in telling them both to fuck off.
4.5* Update: There is going to be a movie after the book and it is coming out this month!
I discovered this book by Julian Barnes when reading comments about Chesil Beach by Ian McEwan which is a book I also enjoyed.
The tone of the story is quite similar in some ways.
Barnes, McEwan and Coetzee have a way with words that I find brilliant.
I am not fully satisfied about how the author finished the book and left some of the events unexplained.
Not in the negative way, like what Tony, the narrator, may be doing, or trying to do, to Veronica, who 40 years ago was his first serious girlfriend, but in the way he describes how his ex-wife would dress a chicken -- slipping butter and herbs under the skin, with a delicate hand, never breaking the outer layer.
While I didn't completely see the ending that arrived, I did have a clue, as I was reading very carefully, with a lot of attention, as if it were "The Good Soldier." (That's not to say that plot is essential to this story, because it's not at all, except in the ways the narrator has to adjust his thinking.) Still, there were surprises, as there is in all great fiction.
Julian Barnes' The Sense of an Ending has a lot packed in the short 150 or so pages. Memory and history, responsibility and blame, deceit, misunderstandings, aging, guilt, remorse - and, of course, a safely passive coasting on the smooth sailing surface of life, occasionally interrupted by the tidal waves of unexpected upheavals and disturbances, just like Severn Bore, seen once by Tony Webster and Veronica. "We live with such easy assumptions, don’t we? For instance, that memory equals events p
Memory and history, responsibility and blame, deceit, misunderstandings, aging, guilt, remorse - and, of course, a safely passive coasting on the smooth sailing surface of life, occasionally interrupted by the tidal waves of unexpected upheavals and disturbances, just like Severn Bore, seen once by Tony Webster and Veronica.
With this introduction, we take a dive into the mind of Tony Webster - a self-centered average guy who, like the rest of us, uses the subjectivity of memory to be the hero in his story, to be who he needs himself to be, to unconsciously tinker with the events until they seem just right.
Yes, that is part of it, but Julian Barnes has a wonderful turn of phrase and he is a keen observer who knows how to articulate those observations.I loved the elasticity of time and the relationship of memory to time:*how time slows down or speeds up *how time binds us and yet, as the narrator Tony Webster argues, time is a solvent rather than a fixative *how time affects memory so that what we now remember happened may not be an accurate account of an event*how we embellish what we remember*how for Tony there is an objective time and a subjective time*how Tony would like to place time in reverse like a river running upstreamThe final paragraph of the novel takes the story right back to the beginning and completes the circle.###Some favourite quotes:"‘I don’t know, sir.’ 'What don’t you know?’ 'Well, in one sense, I can’t know what it is that I don’t know.
Again, I must stress that this is my reading now of what happened then. Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time. From the first page, I was carried away by Julian Barnes’s The Sense of an Ending and its wonderful story. For such a short novel it seems to waste no words, and only speeds between breaths to tell us about the capriciousness of our memories. I think it cannot be truer that memory is a fickle friend. More than a story, this was a lyrical lesson w
Or rather, my memory now of my reading then of what was happening at the time.
From the first page, I was carried away by Julian Barnes’s The Sense of an Ending and its wonderful story.
If you are old enough to wonder why you forgot those long ago times, you will enjoy this book.
Or perhaps it's that same paradox again: the history that happens underneath our noses ought to be the clearest, and yet it's the most deliquescent.’ But his losses I felt as my own, I think when I read his recollections I imagined my own instead.
In the first fifty pages the narrator, Tony, tells of some events in his high school and college days: a group of rather pretentious friends (who, for the most part, play at being intellectuals), a relationship with a girl, Veronica, that didn't work out, a friend's suicide, marriage, divorce, retirement ...
(view spoiler)[And everything that Tony--and I as the reader--thought got upended.
I've felt those feelings.This blog has one writer's explanation of what was really happening, and an extremely long but intensely interesting comment section where various readers chip in with their theories and insights, which gave me a lot of food for thought.
(hide spoiler)]So much food for thought ...
A Man Booker winner, Barnes has wowed his readers with The Sense of an Ending, a book that ties up loose ends of an contemplative, older man's life, and, quite possibly, the ends of my reading year as well.Tony Webster is amicably divorced, still meeting his ex-wife Margaret for lunch once a week or so.
Following this visit home, the couple officially breaks up, Adrian writes to Tony for permission to see Veronica, and the ex-couple does not hear or see of each other for the next forty years.As Barnes quickly forwards his readers through time, he fills in the gaps in Tony's life.
Julian Barnes creates The Sense of an Ending indeed, both for Tony Webster and for my reading year.
This book literally grabbed me from the first page.
He's got the presence of mind to understand exactly what he and the other lads were like in those days.
He also has the understanding of how memory truly works.
“...what you end up remembering isn't always the same as what you have witnessed.” Or this “ I need to return briefly to a few incidents that have grown into anecdotes.” The writing here is delicious.
It's a short book, but there's a lot packed in the pages.
Tony is dense and a bit of a lughead, thinking he can go back and change history.
The Sense of an Ending is the type of British novel ALL OTHER AMERICAN NOVELS TREMBLE IN THE PRESENCE OF.
Barnes, like my other major European discovery of the year Michel Houellebecq, is a purveyor of human behavior, adding and utilizing British conventions of Modern English Literature in his own book.
The occasion which hooks the reader, like in another perennial favorite by the sublime Kazuo Ishiguro's "Never Let Me Go" in which a little girl dances, a school teacher has a breakdown, is present in a similar, indeed also masterful scene, when a teacher actually tells his student he possesses the knowledge to teach the entire class.
It's really a dull spark of understanding nested in about the same amount of egocentric self-pity that it started out disguised by.I guess it's a clever character study, but I didn't and don't like Tony.
All life has tragedy - and some lives here have *true* tragedy, which Tony fails to recognize even as he seem to be recognizing it (so I guess that's pretty clever of Barnes, but sheesh ...).
Tony's real insight seems to be the recognition that he's failed to live up to his own pompous and overblown expectations of greatness for himself.
Barnes bisbiglia a me lettore che Tony mi riguarda, è come me, fatto della stessa materia, la sua vita da ragazzo e poi quella da adulto potrebbero essere la mia.Harriet Walter, una bella scoperta, interpreta la moglie di Tony.L’adolescenza e la gioventù sono una sala d’attesa della vita che verrà.
La calma e la quiete sono solo apparenza: dentro, Tony è dominato dal “tempo inquieto”, dal rimorso del tempo mancato, sfuggito – dall’intuizione che non c’è senso alla fine, e se un senso esiste è più probabilmente nel mentre, nel durante, nel frattempo.
Has it ever occurred to you that while you are complacently sitting, basking in the self acquired glory of wisdom, you chance upon something, like an incident, a person or a written word, which forces you to revisit your understanding and knowledge of the life as you know it?
And then you gasp with a sudden disbelief at the ignorance which might have silently crept in and stayed along while you felt contented with your version of perceptions?
I felt the same while reading this book.
To say that I liked what I read would be an understatement.
His use of the details of Robson's death as an example of the unreliability of history sums up Barnes entire theme, i.e., the dependance of history on the imperfections of memory and the inadequacies of documentation, as well as the personal baggage of the historian.
Tony frequently acknowledges his imperfect memory, he possesses only a fragment of Adrian's diary, and Barnes ensures that we are well aware of Tony's personal baggage.
So there can only be the sense of an ending, and great unrest in the mind of the reader because of the accumulation of responsibility.We are left with the unanswerable question: is Tony the equivalent of the Serbian gunman mentioned in the early pages?
The Sense of an Ending It's probably safe to say that most of us have, at some point in our lives, done or said things we have come to regret. That phone call you made when you were extremely upset. That bitter email you shouldn't have written. That text message you were too prompt to send. If you had the opportunity of visiting a younger version of yourself and review what that other you said, felt, discovered, did or didn't do, how do you think it would measure up against the older you? Would
If you had the opportunity of visiting a younger version of yourself and review what that other you said, felt, discovered, did or didn't do, how do you think it would measure up against the older you?
Tony Webster, the protagonist of The Sense of an Ending, finds himself in his middle age, confronted with some things he did as a young man and the unexpected but horrific consequences that came as a result.
Is it at all possible to reconcile our version of past events with reality?
What a wonderful wonderful novel.
I went through it loving every line and anguishing over how I could never write like this - A patchy memory of life laid out in scattered pieces, excruciating in what is left unsaid and what is perhaps falsely remembered.I finished the book in a day and promised this - 'Full review to follow.' I am thinking about this again today but maybe I'll fulfill this promise tomorrow?
The book touched me on many personal levels and I want to do justice to it, maybe even read it once again before attempting an extensive review.
I bought this book at Paddington railway station, to read on the way home.
It's a short book (one of the reasons I bought it) and it quickly confirmed itself to me as a wise purchase; I was laughing out loud after a few pages, totally hooked.
Barnes is obviously a clever guy and I found I had to look up a few words along the way (I was home by then).
It's a book I'll read - again, a rarity for me - if only to look up a few more of those words I didn't recognise!
Umm. I mean this book was written ok and I get it, the whole unreliable narrator thing, but the protagonist is like a psychopath or what? I mean how could he have forgotten? And if what I think happened happened, WTF would Veronique still be talking to him? Why would the mom send him 500 pounds? WTF was that mathematical formula about? Maybe I a just too dense for English post-modernism and I gotta still to American post-modernist,. Hmpf. Disappointed :(
In the last sentence of the first paragraph of the new, Booker-shortlisted novella “The Sense of an Ending,” the narrator states that “what you end up remembering isn’t always the same as what you have witnessed.” Preceding it is a short list of what he remembers: “a shiny inner wrist,” “steam rising from a wet sink,” “gouts of sperm circling a plughole,” “a river rushing nonsensically upstream,” “another river,” and “bathwater long gone cold behind a locked door.” Following it is a hundred-plus-page expansion of these remembrances, which, like any number of memories drawn from different points in time and space, are only vaguely, if at all, congruous.
Let me begin by saying that I don’t mind short, understated books – novellas if you like.
I know it is Julian Barnes, Booker Prize, what not, but that stuff was cheesy, ok?Julian Barnes and his narrator don't "get" women.
His ex-girlfriend comes back like a blast from the past to send him emails saying random things like : "You will never get it so don't even try" or meets up with him and doesn't talk at all but takes him to some place without any explanation.
I know it all sounds like I didn't like the book, but I did.
And the longer life goes on, the fewer are those around to challenge our account, to remind us that our life is not our life, merely the story we have told about our life.
Told to others, but—mainly—to ourselves.” and how often precisely we come to know...."the sense of an ending"Memory, individual rather than collective, accounts for who we are and what we have become.
In this short but compelling novel Julian Barnes tracks the origin of one particular memory through a long and apparently uneventful life towards an explanation that leaves traces of unease that are difficult to dismiss.The facts are quite simple.
But memories betray.........Well, I wanted to like it more than I actually did.
