https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1832552.Sunset_Gun
This book reignites my love for poetry. I want to inscribe my favorite quotes on my palm for quick-draw wit when the ideal situation arises. My fervent reading of Dorothy Parker continues.
Cursing yourself because you know you're caught in an endless loop doomed to make the same mistakes again and again, and yet accepting it, because that incurable hope, that things will work out , is the only thing that makes life slightly more bearable, even if it leaves only pain behind.Hope.
But instead of the usual flowery descriptions and romantic idealism, her writing is cynical and full of dry humor and quotable epigrams that insist on making you smile through the pain.
Hers and yours.Dorothy Parker is a must read for anyone who finds poetry boring.
Dorothy Parker
This may be my primo fave of her collected poems. I have (what appears to be) the exact copy as shown in the pic. I collect her books for sport but the potent moxie with which Parker dishes it out is accessible to all. I will forever be improved and soothed by her.
Love Dorothy Parker and these poems are great. I wish she had been born 100 years later than she was.
I found a copy from like the 40s at Powell's in Portland, OR and I read it from cover to cover. I am not necessarily an avid poetry reader, but I love her sardonic wit and her ability to be funny and poignant at the same time. This particular set of poems are very realistic about the ups and downs of relationships. My favorite is called "Theory."
3/5 - Some beautiful poems within the collection that really struck a cord with me and some others which left me feeling unconcerned. Overall a mix between ones that I loved and ones I was not interested in.
Dorothy Parker is fun! - while teaching us about love, loss and sorrow at the same time. This was my first encounter with her and I'll read her work again in the future.
watch for trouble walking all along his coursestepping high and stalking like a funeral horsewatch the gloom a-wheelingblack accross the sungibbering and squeelingall the crows in one
A short but sweet sample:Two-Volume NovelThe sun's gone dim, and The moon's turned black;For I loved him, and He didn't love back.
I have an unhealthy obsession with Dorothy Parker;;
Loved the poetic literary critiques, but again, a broken heart is required.
The wry and funny poetry of Dorothy Parker
