https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60342.Pretzel
My kids made me read this book to them tonight, and I legit hated it. Horrible message and bad editing. Sorry, 1940s book, you don't hold up over time.
Kind of weird book. Pretzel is a daschund who wins a prize because he is so very long. He likes a female daschund, but she doesn't like him because she "doesn't care for long dogs." But then she falls in a hole and, due to his length, Pretzel can rescue her. She agrees to marry him because he saved her life. Awwww!!!!!"Will you marry me now?""I will, but not for your length!" Bizarre. That made me laugh out loud. I know I married my hubby for his length. ;-)
I didn't like the message I felt this book was telling. Greta didn't accept Pretzel because he didn't look like other dachshunds. He was super long and no matter what he did or gave her she wouldn't accept him and was quite rude to him too. But when he comes to her rescue she finally accepts him and they get married. What?!
Pretzel is the story of a daschund.
:)The little dog across the street, Greta, did not like Pretzel.
And Pretzel really liked Greta.
Her thoughts on the matter: "I don't care for long dogs." The rest of the story details how Pretzel tries to impress Greta ...
:)As with all the H.A. Rey books, my girls have delighted in Pretzel.
I don't think they have ever seen a real daschund, so they enjoy the appearance and antics of this unusual looking dog.
The artwork is sweet and very colorful, as with all Rey books and I think it's worth a look if you can find it!
This is a love story between two wieners....it's just beautiful
Such a cute story!
- The book is great for reading out loud.
What I didn't like:- I took exception to the dog being willing to do anything to win the love of the female dog, even when his attention was unwanted.
In kind, I also didn't like that the female dog agrees to marry the make dog after he saves her life.
I'd rather my boy not spend time finding a way to make someone may him.
This is not a dangerous book, I would rather my boy learn to respect himself and others.
If you’re a fan of classic children’s stories, see if you can get your hands on this this one.
Pretzel, the world’s longest dachshund, has a case of puppy love.
But the object of his affections, Greta just “{doesn’t} care for long dogs.” Nothing personal, of course.
Despite all his best efforts, it seems like all hope is lost, until one day Pretzel finds himself in a position to help the hard-to-get Greta in a way that only he can.It’s a puppy love story, with a slight Lady and the Tramp feel, and it trumps any George book as my favorite Rey creation.
I realize that this will make me sound crazy, because on its surface this is a classic picture book about an adorable dachshund. But the whole story is about how Pretzel falls in love with a lady dog who dislikes him and then he proceeds to give her presents, beg for her affection, and stalk her. There is literally a page that says something about how he had been following and watching her all the time. CREEPY. So he rescues her and she decides he's not so bad and they get married. UGH. Awful.
One day in May, five little dachshunds were born. One of them, was Pretzel, who would grow into the world's longest dachshunds, whom everyone admired...except for Greta, the little black dachshund from across the street. This sweet story, authored by Margret Rey, who is well know for Curious George, is a love story between two dachshunds....and the lengths the Pretzel must go to win Greta's heart.
A lovely tale that shows outer beauty is not all it's cracked up to be and how love is more than looks. A very handsome and distinguished dog finds himself in love. However the object of his affection is not stunned by outward appearances and ends up only falling for him after he shows that he has more to offer than his looks. An excellent book for youngsters on an important lesson.
- adorable hero wiener dog story - illustrations are simple and sweet - Pretzel's crush, Greta, is obnoxious and uninterested, but you can't help who you love and maybe, just maybe, he wins her over
I don't usually review children's books, but this one was so funny, with a good underlying message for kids about accepting someone for who they are, not what they look like. Pretzel, an overly long wiener dog, is a likeable and adorable character, and the illustrations are beautiful.
There are five dachshund puppies. Pretzel keeps growning larger until he is the longest dog in the world. All love him except the little dachshund Gretta. After he saves her, she does love him and they get married. Then they have their own family of five.
Pretzel, the distinguished, extra-long dachshund, wants to marry the little dog across the way . . . but she thinks he's too long. She changes her mind when she falls into a deep hole and he gets her out. First published in 1944, this book is charming but not dated.
A friend of mine introduced me to this book after I adopted a dachshund. I love this book. It's my first purchase whenever I need a baby gift (from the dog, naturally). I've even read it to my own dachshund! :)
"From the people who gave us Curious George." Never mind that, this is a charming, little story all its own that should be on the book shelf of every child's bedroom.
I can't help myself. Story time with Darcy and Finn ASAP.
heh. "length" in a guy is not everything.

I used to read this book to my brother when he was little. Tonight, I reread it to my little one and he started kicking me where I could feel him. It's one of my favorites and now I forever cherish this momment forever.
Such a sweet little book, although the writing was not that impressive. I feel like it needed just one more proof before they printed it. But nonetheless, it is a cute book with wonderful illustrations. A must read for dachshund lovers.
We liked the pictures better than the story which is sad because this book could've been a cute story.
8/16/18 Read with Julia
This book is about a love story between two dogs and all the adventures that they go on. Lexile Measure- Ad460LGuided Reading- LSix Traits plus one- voice and presentation
It’s funny, and makes me smile.I bought it without reading it because the same people that made Curious George created it and I had high expectations.Pretzel is the story of a dachshund (Pretzel) that grows abnormally long and tries to woo a lady dachshund, Greta.
But Greta doesn’t like long dogs and so he has to prove that he would do anything for her.The premise of the book is that Greta was judging Pretzel for his appearance.
But Greta doesn’t praise him like the others.A secondary lesson is that everyone judges beauty differently.
Pretzel is an exceptionally long dachshund, and has received lots of notoriety for his looks.
Pretzel falls in loves with a normal sized dachshund named Greta, but she wants nothing to do with him and claims she does not like long dogs.
One day Greta falls into a deep hole, and Pretzel is able to save her due to his length.
I felt that Greta was awful and mean the whole time, so when she professed her love for Pretzel at the end of the book, I was honestly confused.
Overall, it is a cute and funny story about a silly looking dog.
I love the illustrations, but the story is weird reading these days: Pretzel is an insanely long Dachshund.
He likes Greta and wants to marry her, but Greta doesn't like long Dachshunds.
So he gives her gifts, and she isn't interested.
He does tricks to impress her, but she's not interested.
While you could read it that not gifts and showing off but doing the right thing will win someone's love, and maybe that it's good to look past appearances, it's pretty weird that Greta keeps his gifts and it is a little "rescue the princess and win her love." I later found out my wife loves this one from childhood; I guess it's a good thing I never tried to win her over with gifts and by showing off.
I am sure that I read this book when I was a child - probably more than once.
So I was very excited to read this one with our girls.
And probably none too soon, as they are starting to grow out of simple books like this one.
The narrative is short and entertaining and the illustrations are colorful and certainly remind me of the pictures from the many Curious George books I read when I was young.
Our girls never really got into George, but they liked this story.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
