https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/936042.Wings_Above_the_Diamantina

Always an enjoyable read, with Detective Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte - “Boney” - stumped by a paralysed woman - criminal? victim? witness? - unable to talk to shed any light on the matter of a stolen and abandoned plane which then caught alight, destroying any evidence on board. It’s always amusing to read Boney’s high opinion of himself (admittedly it is warranted).This is an entertaining series to listen to and I’m looking forward to listening to the fourth.
I am changing my rating from 3 to 4 stars after this reread (June 2016).
I know that I have read this book before (something I can't say about all the books on my shelves!) but even now I am finished, it was like I was reading it for the first time.
I admire how well Upfield shows us enough of Bony's thought process that the reader feels like he is solving it along with the Inspector yet doesn't make it obvious.
It is the third book, chronologically, in a series, but was enchanting enough to get me seeking out all the other books Upfield wrote featuring a half-cast Australian detective, Napoleon Bonaparte (named after the famous Frenchman, but more affectionately called "Bony" by his friends).
Although many of the Bony mysteries are set in New South Wales or Queensland, they eventually will take you to many areas of the country.
The real-life experiences of the author during his many years experience living in Australia no doubt created a stockpile of interesting things to write about, interesting characters, and puzzling mysteries to be figured out.
This is one of a series about Detective Napoleon Bonaparte.
This Bonaparte lives in Australia.
Bony is sent to tackle the tough cases wherever they happen in Australia so each book is placed in a different part of the country.
The setting is immensely important in each book influencing the action even determining some of the action.Wings Above the Diamantina begins with a monoplane landing in a fallow pasture.
Bony must hurry as she is gradually dying from the paralyzing drug.
The setting is interesting.
The book is an enjoyable read.
He has stopped describing Bony as "childlike" and comparing the two halves of his genes and their supposed effects on his intelligence, which helped a great deal.
Someone leaves an air plane "per parachute", and people speak "per telephone" as well--a turn of phrase I've never seen anywhere else in 53 years of voracious reading in three languages.
I could do without the recap chapter at the end--all tell, no show--but it seems to be the norm even today.
And why not let the girl tell her own story?
Although the writing is old fashioned and sometimes not great, I like Bony a little more with each book. He reminds me a little of Sherlock Holmes with his mysterious deductions and of Hercule Poirot with his high opinion of himself. And of course, there's Australia!
This is the third installment of the series Once again, it is Detective Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, known to most as Bony, to the rescue.
This is the third installment of this series by Arthur Upfield, and it begins with a very strange occurrence.
The young woman is quickly taken in by the Nettlefold family, where she remains unconscious, sliding toward death.
Bony must solve the mystery of who she is, how she got there, and what type of drug is causing her illness before she dies.I like these books, although I must say that modern readers may find Upfield's depiction of the local Australian aborigines somewhat racist.
An unidentified young woman is found paralyzed in an airplane abandoned in the Outback, with no footprints to show that a pilot was ever in the plane.
Life at the cattle station where she is being nursed now revolves around the inhabitants' sympathy for this young woman.
Normally Bony's biggest asset as a detective is his patience, but if he works at his own pace, "Miss M.M." will die, and that would devastate all who know her except for one missing pilot.Upfield skillfully engages the reader's empathy for the main characters.
I don't think it occurred to Upfield to wonder if she would be blind from dried-up eyes if she ever regained her movement.Outback Australia is always one of Upfield's greatest characters.
You take a black or a half-caste, and you put him to college or teach him a trade, but the time may come when he'll leave it all to bolt back to the bush.
You can't tell me that it's natural for a man to slave in a factory, or on a road, or in an office.
It is not natural for man to work.
Many blacks never have worked.
They have never had to work and they can't see the sense of working.
Blessed if I can see the sense of it, either.
I struggled with this novel initially as I found the dialogue very forced and artificial.
In fact, I almost abandoned it completely during the first chapter.
However, I'm glad I stuck with it.
Upfield is an accomplished writer.
However, what I enjoyed most is Upfield's skill in describing the landscape.
It's as necessary to the novel as it's central character.
Arguably, it is the central character.
For those interested in crime novels that evoke a strong sense of place, where the landscape is ever-present, this is definitely one to try.
Arthur Upfield is starting to get into his stride in this novel. The account of life in the Australian bush in the first half of the 20th century has fascinated me ever since I first read these books many years ago. We treat them as historical fiction and find some of the racial attitudes regrettable, though no doubt true of the time.
Set in Bony's home state of Queensland, this presents a mysteriously ill lady retrieved from an aircraft which somehow landed in one piece with no one at the controls. Many interesting characters and humorous interludes keep the reader's interest in what is a relatively lengthy novel and one of Upfield's best, which is saying something!
The third in the Bony series and the best so far, as Upfield refines his chief character and writing skills. An unknown woman is found paralysed in a stolen plane on a dry lake in the Channel country. Who is she, what had been done to her and why is the plane blown up the night after? Bony is in a race against time to both solve the crime and save the woman's life.
This was a great book where Upfield demonstrated the fallibility of Bony neatly and by doing so made the character even more appealing. I love these books because they have a truly Australian feel to them and are plausible resolution as well. Highly recommend to anyone who loves a great mystery.
Good old Boney. Australian bush in the olden days. I love it
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Since this was first published in the '20s, you will notice the old-fashioned technology. Don't let it put you off.
Upfield's mysteries, originally written in the '30s-60's, feature an Australian aborigine as a detective. I love the style this is written in, and would like to read more.
Excellent. Enjoyed it to the end. Very much the flavor of ‘60’s Australia.
Another quality mystery with a very very interesting Australian setting. Definitely worth reading.
Hmm - another really good read - lots of twists - a couple of extravagant stretches in deductions perhaps. Commentary on being black again thick, both in the lines and between them.
Although dated, this Australian Detective story was an engrossing 'whodunnit'.
While their was much to like about the book and the story, I found the characterisations a little thin.
I wanted to like the Aboriginal 'half-caste' Detective Boney, but the pretentions and language used by him were just plain irritating.
Not sure if this reaction was deliberately generated by the author, was an artefact of the era or influenced by the person who read this edition.
The book was good enough to make me want to read more of the series.
Brilliant page turner. Marvellously evocative descriptions of the outback. Politically incorrect for these days but reflecting the attitudes of the time. Upfield obviously had great admiration for the indigenous aboriginal population of Australia.Four and a half stars would have been about right.Highly recommended.
THANK YOU my Dawnshine for recommending Arthur W. Upfield! This was a terrific book! Unbelievable that his books are no longer in print. Some of the best have become very expensive collectors items. Boooo!
