https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98413.Nana_Vol_1
The story of two girls, punk rocker Nana Oosaki ("big" Nana) and girly Nana Komatsu ("small" Nana, known in the rest of the story as Hachi), who meet on a train to Tokyo and become the best of friends.
What I like best about the series is how the characters develop - flighty, shallow Hachi becomes the pillar of emotional strength; and independent, tough Nana is revealed to be extremely vulnerable.
Another thing I love is the narration at the beginning and end of chapters, highlighting Nana and Hachi's bond and foreshadowing a tragic future, which is later partially revealed in flash-forwards.
Nana was a really different kind of graphic novel, it sort of reminded me of Ginger and Rosa, but with less teenage melodrama and more pondering angst about various situations.
Nana fue uno de los primeros animes que vi.Y siempre me fascinó la historia de estas dos chicas, aunque a veces hachi me saca de quicio, a través del anime logre entablar una relación. Elegí este manga para "comenzar a leer manga" porque ya conozco la historia entonces me pareció una buena elección, a pesar de que se separe en algún momento de los eventos del anime y que la mangaka este en un stand by con el manga.
I couldn't tell if Yazawa meant for us to hate him or like him, because he did terrible things (view spoiler)[(isolating Hachi, forcing himself on her, being rude to her, etc.) (hide spoiler)] yet was shown in a sympathetic light over and over again.Takumi's relationship with Reira confused the fuck out of me, and I hated it.
Takumi can fuck right off with his hot, sociopathic self.Hachi was my favorite character (with Shin as a close second), although I hate what she went through in order to find the tiniest bit of happiness.
¡AMÉ, AMÉ, AMÉ!
Pero todavía no es perfecto...
No le doy las 5 estrellas por algunos pequeños detalles que no me terminan de gustar del todo en cuanto a la trama (y ciertos personajes), pero eso seguro solo me pasa con este tomo (ya que al principio del anime me sentía igual y después me terminé encariñando con todos y entendiendo un poco más sus motivaciones..
L’ho amato e odiato tanto, la valutazione è stata difficile perché questo manga mi fa tornare in mente tantissimi ricordi, ho la prima copia comprata nel lontano 2002 insieme a mia sorella!!!
Davvero tanti ricordi..se devo votare la mano della disegnatrice, può non piacere a tutti per la particolarità del suo tratto, anche se io ho amato tanto i suoi disegni, le gambe sottili, l’accuratezza, i dettagli del look come in #paradisekiss e #cortilidelcuore che però ho apprezzato di più per via delle trame, secondo me migliori.
Non so neanche se la disegnatrice ha ripreso la serie ma io non penso, magari gli ricorda un brutto momento.
Nana es amor <3
I really hope the author gets better and decides to finish this series. Otherwise we will be left hanging forever!
Volume 1 introduces us to Nana Kumatsu, Nana Osaki, and Junko (Nana Kumatsu’s best friend, she’s pretty much a bonus to the series).
The manga shows us these three girls lives (but mainly the two Nanas).
That doesn’t seem like much in the way of story, but this volume is more to introduce us to characters.
This manga had some good story and plot and character development, but it isn’t a long read (180 pages at most).
As far as rating, I was told by a few girls and a few guys that I would like this volume (and series).
3/5Meh this was okay, I'm not sure if I'll check out the next volume.
From here on I'll be referring to them as Barbie and Punky.
She is forced to make some tough choices.Although Barbie is superficial and annoying at times, I liked her part of the story best.
I felt that Punky didn't have anything that made her unique in any way, and I didn't feel invested in her story.
Some issues I had with the story probably stem from the fact that I know absolutely nothing about Japanese culture, and some story lines just got a bit weird for me.
I don't want to become invested in a series that might not get an ending.
So this was sort of a prologue for the series, an introduction for the main characters, the two Nanas particularly.I love it! Eager to read the rest 😍😍
Je commence enfin ce manga culte. Un premier tome qui m'intrigue mais où je suis mitigée au niveau des deux héroïnes, avec une Nana attachante et une autre horripilante. Il faut voir la suite...
3,5*Buddy read with May <3Yes, we are dumbasses who decided to pick up a series that was apparently never finished and cry over it hsdghad And they were roommates! Nana and Nana meet on a way to Tokyo and immediately hit it off. This is enough for them to decide to move in together the next time they see each other. This and cheap rent, of course.Goth Nana is more confident and girly Nana is more childish but both of them are new to independant life and the big city. Nanas have a great dynami
3,5*Buddy read with May <3Yes, we are dumbasses who decided to pick up a series that was apparently never finished and cry over it hsdghad
This is enough for them to decide to move in together the next time they see each other.
I'm going to suffer because it's not yuri but girly Nana has spent more than one page admiring goth Nana's looks so..I didn't like girly Nana's boyfriend.
ALSO, his friends looked like siblings a bit?
This seems like something that will become more serious and sad as it goes but I can't take it 100% serious with those noodle legs..
NOODLE LEGS
3ème lecture : relu pour les besoins d'un cours, mais du coup maintenant j'ai envie de relire toute la série :p---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Cette série est et restera pendant encore longtemps mon shôjo préféré et Ai Yazawa ma mangaka préférée.
I love this one because it's not only funny and romantic but it tackles all the sensitive issues, premarital sex, drugs, unplanned pregnancies even Abortion. Reminiscent of Juno. I've read this one but not all of them, more of the latter volumes, I'm more fan of the anime. It also have all the best OST.
This was an amazing Manga! I loved the anime but was so happy to find that I love the manga just as much. I love the contrasting personalities between the two Nana's! I'm so excited to see how they are going to be once they actually meet and spend more time together.
Everything about this manga is perfect. The story, the characters and, of course, the art are truly great! I found really interesting seeing the contrast between the two Nanas. Though, my favorite Nana is the singer one. :)
its SO SAD!! but still its INCREDIBLE!!
I like both of these gals a whole lot! Very teen/college drama, but still great fun to read overall, and I look forward to learning more about each girl.
/Working on Review/
We see two alternative sides- one painting the picture of how Hachi (puppyish Nana) keeps falling in love with the wrong men and how she cannot stop her growing infatuation with cute guys and over shopping along with how she thinks that everything negative in her life is due to the "Great Demon Lord".The other Nana had a very different life - the vocalist of BLAST (a hometown rock band), an orphan, a smoker and a high school dropout she projected the aura of a "tough" "broken" girl but is anything but that.
What I love though, is that Hachi has this big girl-crush on Nana not like, in a lesbian way(even though they do share a kiss) but rather in a "you're incredibly cool and I really really want to be badass like you" way.
(Don't worry, that person is NOT your doppleganger!)This, for me, was the most interesting thing about Nana.
Nana Komatsu is a young woman hoping to start a new life after having gone through a lot of heartache.
She moves to Tokyo and meets Nana Osaka on the train.
Nana Osaka is everything she's not.
They contrast each other in personality, beliefs, and loves, but they strangely get along.
As the two spend more time together and become best friends, they face many issues regarding friendship and love.
I mean, they pretty much are consisted of the same things except instead of fashion it's music.
The artwork is fabulous-I want to make some of these outfits myself and you get a definite feel for Tokyo and Japan as a whole.
Hachi siempre recuerda momentos de su pasado para contarnos la historia vivida entre las dos.“Nana” es un manga sin demasiadas pretensiones: nos explica la vida de las dos mujeres en Tokyo, como Nana consigue hacerse hueco en el mundo de la música con su grupo Black Stones, siempre a la sombra del otro grupo que aparece en la escena, Trapnest, el cual tendrá mucho que decir en la vida de nuestra chicas.
I liked the dynamic between her and Ren and the grittier feel of her story.It does take a while to get into if you aren't sure what to expect.
It wasn't solely because Nana Komatsu's storyline was stale at the beginning, but because this isn't the grand ol' introduction I thought it was.
That way, it would feel like the beginning of two stories that would eventually intertwine rather than ones that could conclude if you didn't want to move on with the manga.Overall, I'm prepared for the angst and drama no matter which path I set on, so let's see where this series will go after the two girls meet.
شفت نانا وانا في المتوسط تقريباً , وقتها ما كان متوفر الا من ترجمة أنمي داون وبجودة متوسطة , فكثير ا
I was excited to make the realization that this series is by the manga-ka of Paradise Kiss. I loved that series, so I have high hopes for this series. I enjoyed the first volume. Was a good starter with some background information. I'm curious to see where the series goes! I'm looking forward to reading more about the two Nanas!
Read this because I needed something quick and was scrolling and remembered this! I read and watched this 8 years ago and was hit with so much nostalgia while reading again. That being said, I never liked and still don't like the Nana in this volume, but this is one of my all time favorite manga series. The other Nana is next, right??
I had watched Nana anime and movie before. It was first time to read Nana's manga version. I thought that it is difficult for me to read Nana manga a little. The author is Yazawa Ai. I love this author because picture and story are so nice!!
