https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8554005-sing-you-home
This review is from: Sing You Home: A Novel (Paperback)I've read all of Jodi's books previously and was so excited to see this one on the shelf at WalMart.
Unfortunately,(no spoilers in my review), this novel paints all evangelical Christians as homophobic scumbags and all lesbians as kind-hearted, loving saints.
I guess I thought the book was going to be about the controversy surrounding IVF primarily and homosexual adoption secondarily.
In reality, the book is about bashing Christians and telling the world that the only "fit" parents are homosexual or extremely liberal heterosexuals.
I'm extremely disappointed in this book.
I even forgot to put this on my to-read shelf on Goodreads.Picoult's characters are splendid - by the middle of the book I was immersed in Zoe's yearning for children and Max's difficulty with alcohol abuse, and I felt like they were real, breathing people.
Vanessa's no-nonsense attitude I admired, and side characters like Dara and Lucy I came to love as well.The element that really made me appreciate this novel was Picoult's take on gay marriage, and homosexual inequality in contemporary society.
The optimist in me wants to believe sexuality will eventually become like handwriting: there's no right way or wrong way to do it.
Unable to cope with their infertility or mend their broken relationship, he leaves Zoe. Zoe then meets and falls in love with Vanessa, a high school guidance counselor.
Zoe still wants a baby, and Max is still not ready for fatherhood, but both parents want what’s best for their embryos left at the fertility clinic after their divorce.
I loved Zoe’s profession as a music therapist.
Vanessa also does well for her young charges, especially depressed and suicidal Lucy, who benefits from Zoe’s music therapy.
The Christian characters in the story also suffered the same lack of depth, particularly the church officials and lawyers.
Ms. Picoult's books are one reason why I try to stay away from the big house publishers anymore.
I agree with other reviewers who call Ms. Picoult's books formulaic, but I will go one step further.
It was very clear in this book that Ms. Picoult came in with an agenda and wrapped it in a very shoddily written novel with characters who are not approachable.
I have one more book to read by this author, but it will def.
I don't care what Book of the Month I have to read it for.
I refuse to lose anymore brain cells with crappily written books.
I used to have her on my auto-buy list and have to admit that her last few books, while good, have seemed somewhat formulaic.
I wont give another synopsis of the story, you can read enough of those on the reviews below.
I read this story more slowly than I usually go through books these days, and I think it's because there was so much  emotion, so much depth, that I wanted to savour it.
I'll admit I find it hard to review this story.
As so rarely happens these days, I feel richer for the reading of this book.
If you ever read a Jodi Picoult novel, you know the drill.
My main complaint of this book is Picoult's one-sidedness about the topic at hand.
Just from that description, you can probably tell what side I favor, and it was just as obvious in Picoult's novel.
I know she was being sympathetic to the defense of gay marriage, a cause I am all for, but she risked being offensive towards religious people, which I did not like.
A solid Jodi Picoult.
A good transitory novel for readers looking to get into Picoult, as well as a solid read for fans.
This story is slightly corny at times, but Jodi Picoult gets bonus points for guts.
She's bound to get complaints from both sides of the arguments presented in the book.
All the common remarks and complaints about Picoult's novels are valid.
I give her credit for using her writing gifts to explore sensitive and timely concerns.
She could easily choose instead to write fluffy, vapid chick lit and avoid the risk of being taken to task for her presentation of touchy subjects.If you prefer not to attempt the more subtle and challenging literature addressing homosexuality, Sing You Home is a worthy choice.
Picoult treats the issues with compassion and a welcome helping of hearty humor.
What finally has turned me away from Ms. Picoult is her stereotyping of conservatives and Christians.
This is not the first Picoult book which contained these stereotypes, but it will be the last because I just won't read them any more.
The tone of the book, which mimics the liberal view, is that conservative is synonymous with fundamentalist Christian, and that "those people" are stupid, ignorant, bigoted, well you get the drift.
But I also believe she has serious issues with Conservatives and Christians, and unfortunately she has a loyal audience who will read and believe some of these wildly inaccurate descriptions.
I think I'm over the whole "important current social issue leads to big dramatic court case" format of Picoult's books.
Finished, and I have to say I was incredibly impressed by this one.
I've found her last couple of books a tad slow to engage, but this one grabbed me by the throat from page one and never let go.
It has a lot of themes, but I thought she juggled them very well.
I won't say more for fear of spoiling others' enjoyment, other than the unsurprising news that yes, there's a court scene (but an extremely well done one...).
This book introduced me to themes and ideas I've never really looked at before this closely, and it does it very bravely - some of the issues will really stay with me.
I don't know if enjoy is the right word to describe any of Picoults books, but I do like how she writes of hot-button topics in today's society and makes me think about those topics.After multiple attempts to have a child, Max and Zoe go their separate ways.
I think the way she wrote the breakdown of an opposite-sex marriage and the new-found love with a same-sex partner was very realistic IMO.I personally don't really follow any particular religion, although I do have my own belief system.
I hated this book, and I usually really enjoy Jodi Picoult.
Few books have made me as angry as this one has.
I am very socially liberal, but I felt like I was being force-fed social propaganda.
"Because our [gay] marriage isn't federally recognized, we have to jump through all these extra legal hoops to get the same rights - 1,138 of them - that come naturally to heterosexual couples who get married." I get it - gay marriage should become legal - I know.
All in all this was poorly written, and felt more like a vehicle for a social cause than a story.
Really intriguing story on the various definitions of what makes a family and the legal aspects and prejudices against same-sex couples. I really enjoyed this Picoult book. So far my Jodi Picoult phase is leaving me with the belief that this woman cannot write a bad book. Overall, just a huge I love this author and her stories!
The kind of things, if you're anything like me, that make you jump up and down and get drawn in.
Just don't be like me and be impatient.
Probably just a tad disappointed that I didn't 'feel' the passion between Zoe and Vanessa, but that might have just been me.
I wonder what others think of that?The music point of view was amazing, coming from the most 'unmusical' person in existence.
The work from this point of view was amazing and the team that the author collaborated with are to be commended, leaving me to think the musical theme combined with story was fantastic.
Poorly written, cheesy, melodramatic, and ultimately rushed and contrived.
That doesn't seem in keeping with the characters that were sketched out throughout the novel.
I also found the alcoholism story line to be contrived and rushed.And speaking of rushed, the whole divorce between Max and Zoe was odd.
He didn't want a baby (odd in and of itself considering their whole journey up to that point), so he goes straight to divorce?I had looked forward to a touching story and instead found that Picoult is still using her same cookie cutter mold approach to novel writing.
When Zoe allows herself to start thinking of having a family, again, she remembers that there are still frozen embryos that were never used by herself and Max. SING YOU HOME explores what it means to be gay in today’s world, and how reproductive science has outstripped the legal system.
I admire that she takes on a controversial social issue, but I have felt in her other novels she left the story open for each reader to form their own opinion and you weren't quite sure where she stood on the issue.
I have high expectations for her books because I loved House Rules, Change of Heart and Handle With Care and the can't-turn-the-pages-fast-enough-feeling from reading those books.I was disappointed because I found the storyline to be very predictable and hoped for a shocking ending with unexpected twists and turns throughout.
I also didn't find it very realistic for someone recently divorced to get married again after only 5 months of being in a new relationship.
I did enjoy Zoe's mother being very unique and reading the music therapy sessions Zoe had with her clients.
The struggles of infertility and strain on couples relationships was well-written.
They go their separate ways, and Zoe soon finds herself in a same-sex relationship where she and her partner are hoping to start a family with the embryos that remained frozen after her marriage with Max. The story is told from the alternating perspective of the following characters:Zoe Baxter: a music therapist who uses music in a clinical setting to help patients alleviate pain or change their moods or simply engage in the world.
All the hallmarks of a Jodi Picoult novel-flawed, sympathetic characters revealed through multiple points of view, a significant and timely social issue, and heartbreaking conflict.Zoe and Max's marriage fails after years of infertility, miscarriages and a shattering still birth.
Zoe, a music therapist, finds solace in a new friend, Vanessa.
Ultimately Vanessa becomes much more than a friend.
The major conflict in the novel is over what to do with embryo's left over from Max and Zoe's infertility attempts.
Instead of Max and Zoe deciding on their own, Max's church gets involves and elevates the situation to an anti-gay, pro-traditional marriage media event before Max finally realizes what is right and decides it's up to him to do the right thing.
Zoe and Max love being in love….years ago that is.
After the loss of another baby- one that was far into the pregnancy, Max and Zoe are both heartbroken but Zoe wants to move forward and try again for the 11th time….Max does not.....Zoe is a music therapist, mostly she works at the hospital cheering patients up or working with specific individuals to have emotional or developmental breakthroughs.
The women become very close and forge a bond that opens the door to love and a deep relationship.
When I read what Jodi Picoult's new book was about I laughed, not because the topic is funny but because instead of the usual formula of one controversial social issue, this book contains about 10 and it also includes a companion CD, lyrics written by Miss Picoult herself.
As the book continues I inevitably get annoyed by the formulaic style and start to place bets on what issue she's going to tackle next.
Yes, it contained a ridiculous number of controversial social issues and an accompanying CD which is just plain silly but it was a fast, entertaining read.
Yeah.) After two miscarriages, things finally seem to be working out for them when Zoe’s third embryo-injection has been going strong for twenty-eight weeks, but then ultimately it ends in a stillbirth.This proves to be the last straw for Max, who divorces Zoe and moves in with his super-religious older brother and sis-in-law.
Poor him.)All in all, I really liked this one and totally recommend it to anyone looking for a thought-provoking read into the minds of gay people, and also how harrowing infertility can be for women.A 3.5/5.
I can see, I think, what makes Picoult such a popular author.
Her writing is clear and accessible, and the story manages to hang together, but I felt nothing for the characters by the end.
They felt like two-dimensional megaphones for their respective positions, in this case the religious right fights an openly gay couple for cryogenically frozen embryos.
The one character that I worried about, a young girl undergoing therapy for depression, is never mentioned at the end, so we never learn her fate.
She was a casualty of the story, which is resolved adequately without her.
is not literature, but storytelling, and Picoult does an adequate job.
4,5*Mais um excelente livro da Jodi. Uma história que aborda temas muito interessantes e atuais de uma forma bastante tocante. Muito bom!
I appreciate that the author told the story from Zoe, her new wife Vanessa and Zoe’s ex-husband’s point of view.
But the author’s writing was remarkable in that I could empathize to all three main characters even if I didn’t quite like them.
Unfortunately, Zoe’s new relationship didn’t resonate with me either.
What did resonate with me was Zoe’s desire to have a family and the stress the struggle caused her, Max and Vanessa.I would have loved this story more if the author had delivered multifaceted characters instead of Max, an alcoholic turned bible thumper fighting a music therapist and an atheist school counselor.
It took me through a roller coaster ride of emotions, one that keeps you lightheaded and dizzy, in an exhilarating way, long after you put down the book.
Zoe wants her last chance at a biological child, that is to be carried by Vanessa, whereas Max does not want his child to be raised by a lesbian couple and instead chooses to give the embryos to his brother Reid and his wife Liddy, who are longtime members of his new church.
I can say now i am totally blown away by what ive read and simply cant think enough superlatives to say how good this book is.The story of a lady named Zoe who had tried for 10 years to have a child with her husband Max but due to all manner of reason's this never happens.
The church convinces Max that he should ask for the embryos be given to his Younger brother and his wife who have had there own problems with trying to have a child.Ultimately this ends in a court battle that is truelly riveting and puts you on an emotional rollercoaster as Zoe, Vanessa and there attorney Angela go head to head with the church its lawyers and its pastor.Jodi has done a superb job with Sing You Home.
If you read my book reviews, then you already know that I'm a Jodi fan.
I know that some criticize her plots and writing style and the fact that she has her own formulaic style and that a few of my English teacher friends think her work paltry.
Like her book last year (House Rules), I don't think this story is necessarily ahead of its time; in fact, the gay couple issue has been plundered in quite a few plots already.
And I like Jodi's writing style which prompts me to read "just one more chapter" before I put the book down.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://youtu.be/y7Xqi06f_VYMais uma grande história da Jodi Picoult!Gostei mesmo muito. É uma história super actual mas, infelizmente, com imensos preconceitos.
As in many of Jodi’s novels, there are difficult social issues but in Sing You Home, I think she’s done her best work and topics as diverse as infertility, gay rights, music therapy, Christian beliefs, discrimination, the role of the family, relationship choices are seamlessly woven together.It’s not all black and white though – whilst it is clear that the author doesn’t hold much “faith” with extreme religious fanaticism, we do see a more subtle, multi-tonal representation of those who have been “saved”.
