https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1703521.Swan_Song
(However, Irene never appears throughout the book; Galsworthy uses the excuse of the strike to sequester her offstage in Paris throughout.)Predictably, this does not bring out the best in Fleur, whose spoiled only-child status and doting father have managed to confer on her many of the less appealing attributes of Paris Hilton and Britney.
Because, although Fleur is such a bitch that the reader really doesn't give a toss about the outcome of her efforts at adultery, by the end of this sixth book Galsworthy manages to make us care deeply about Soames.
Farewell dear Soames !!!:( . Discreto , recto , ecuánime , leal , reservado, pero a la vez tierno y sensible a su manera . Tú siempre serás un hombre D a pesar de tus duros principios
El mejor de los libros que forman la segunda trilogía. ¡Qué pena despedirse de estos personajes!
Like the others in the Forsyte Chronicles, there were parts of this book that amused me, and parts that irritated me.
I hadn’t quite appreciated until this book just how selfish Fleur actually was - I knew she liked to collect things and wanted what she couldn’t have (I guess that’s a characteristic of most collectors or they wouldn’t keep collecting), but her selfishness stood out in this story.
As of course he was - perhaps especially so since he wouldn’t talk to Fleur about anything significant.
The conniving wretchhanded everything, wants morenever pays the price.
Swan song concludes John Galsworthy's second trilogy of the Forsytes which he coined A Modern Comedy, not that these books are humorous, but rather that they provide us interpretations of life in general as a comedy of errors and unexpected events as we continue on the journey.
Swan Song provides conclusions, (i.e. the title Swan Song), for some characters the reader has become acquainted with throughout the trilogy, and includes one main character (Soames) who also had a primary roll in Galsworthy's previous trilogy called the Forsyte Saga.
Due to Galsworthy's amazing ability to express the thoughts and feelings of his characters, readers become intimately acquainted with them, particularly with Soames who will be greatly missed.
Unfortunately for her, Jon truly is committed to his young wife, Anne, a southern belle introduced in "A Silent Wooing," which I highly recommend readers read in order to understand the plot in this part of the story.
At times I felt that Michael was too good for her, and gave her a life and child that many women would long for.
It seems as if he learns that Foggartism, which my reading twin helped me to understand is (author:John Galsworthy}'s own creation, will not help the down-trodden lower classes, especially sending young adolescents off to colonies, which have their own political, social, and economic problems.
Aunque existen aspectos que no me han convencido, como la trama política de Michael que no conduce a nada, y la aparición de cierto personaje nuevo que parecía que iba a tener más relevancia, pero al final se queda en agua de borrajas.Seguimos encontrando la prosa detallada y aguda de Galsworthy y su manejo de los personajes.
que ya no eres una niña.En conjunto, esta trilogía me ha gustado menos que "La saga de los Forsyte", tal vez por notarla más ligera o más perdida en lo que quiere contar, pero no por ello es mala.
There are no villains or heroes in his stories, only people you like and dislike as it is with the real characters we meet in everyday life.
His stories are filled with interesting tidbits about England during his lifetime.Despite how well written these books are, this is probably the last of this series I will read.
It took me a long time to get through this book, though it was not a difficult read, because I disliked so many of the characters save Michael Mont and Ann Forsyte.
After the somewhat desultory second book in this second trilogy, we're back to the true focus of the series with Jon's return to England.
One thing I appreciate about Galsworthy is his ability to portray difficult situations from both "good" and "bad" characters' perspectives.
We have Fleur struggling to be happy, Jon struggling with his conscience, and Michael just struggling to make something worthwhile out of his life.
It's easy to sympathize with Fleur's situation, even though I find her a reprehensible person on the whole.
Will be interested to see where Galsworthy takes this in the third and final trilogy.
The previous two in this series were average and left me wondering if I needed to bother with the final trilogy. But this volume was such a return to brilliance. So glad I hung in! Beautiful, emotional, sad.
Such an exciting denouement! This is the third book in the second Forsyte trilogy. One trilogy to go.
'Change,' thought Michael, 'there's nothing but change. It's the one constant. Well! Who wouldn't have a river rather than a pond!'
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................
The Forsythe Saga comes to a temporary conclusion with this book whose title has several different meanings beyond the obvious. Fleur seemed to be rehabilitating into a quite decent person, but temptation is in her way and she does the wrong thing for everyone, including herself. Where does she go from here and what will happen to Soames paintings? If that seems an odd second question, the paintings are deeply symbolic of both Soames and Fleur. The ending is sad, but cathartic. If there ways redemption for Soames, there may be for Fleur. A lovely book is most ways.
As Galsworthy writes about Fleur in this novel, "A desire to have what she hadn't yet got was her leading characteristic." Well she gets what she hadn't yet got, and it doesn't make her happy. And causes a dreadful accident. So without spoilers, how is one supposed to think about Fleur, who is certainly one of the most problematic main characters I've encountered for a long time. Can I feel sorry for such an unpleasant person. Strangely I can, and I think that's where Galsworthy's talent lies.
Oh, Soams.How we followed you for six books, changing and evolving through time, from an unloved Man of Property, to finally being loved back, and still haunted by the consequences of that horrible first marriage.And poor Fleur, the modern woman in a gilded cage. All she needed was a career, and she wouldn't have been driven to the insanity that hurt her so. Her father was strangled by society's crazy codes of decency, and she was just as strangled.
I am over the Forsyte Saga. Each book is less engaging than the previous one. In fact I got muddled up and missing out volume 5 altogether but didn't really miss it. The plot was slim and not much more than historical chic lit. At least John Galsworthy has both a good vocabulary and good grammar. At least I didn't waste good money on the book. (Purchased secondhand on Amazon)
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts.....................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008.............................................................................................................................................A Modern Comedy:-The second part of Forsyte Chronicles begins - with The White Monkey, first volume of the Modern Comedy - where the Forsyte Saga left off, with a six years gap that includes what was then called the great war and is now known as the first world war.
Exceptional story of English upper middle class in the early 20th century. Can't wait to finish the last four books.
On to #6 and whilst trying to remember what happened in the last books was handily reminded now and then with reminiscences.A tale which again centres around Fleur ( still a spoilt and selfish brat) Michael ( trying his best) their someone neglected child and old Soames in fine Galsworthy tradition .
Finally Jon returns to England (with his wife Anne) and must encounter Fleur, his young love.
This is the story of that encounter and what results.Fleur is spoiled.
This time she struggles over her feelings for her first love and her relationship with her wonderful husband Michael Mont (who is probably the very best person in this saga).Fleur's father Soames must also struggle as he observes the danger signs.
The most moving chapters of the book are center on Soames, who is, of course, the villain in this saga for what he did to his first wife Irene back in volume one.Galsworthy writes so beautifully.
Swan Song the sixth book of the Forsyte Saga Chronicles is the third book in the second trilogy: A Modern Comedy.It is 1926 and the general strike is in danger of bringing the country to a standstill.
The breech is famously filled by members of the middle classes – who suddenly found themselves working long hours driving engines, buses and keeping essential services going.
As the novel opens Fleur is occupying herself beautifully by volunteering at a works canteen, supplying food to men (who bless their hearts) have never worked so hard.
~PASSION, DELETED~The Forsyte Saga: A Modern Comedy, Book ThreeI wrote a real passionate review for this excellent book, the review concentrated on the hurts and pains passion brings to our lives.
I have accidentally deleted it, as if proving, that passion is something to be cautious about; something to stay away from to save one's heart and soul, to keep one further away from the dangers of fire of life.
If you have read thus far in the story of the life of Forsyte family, this book is a must.
Well, I am through with the second trilogy about Forsyte!
Like many other reviewers, I was very impressed with this sixth book of the Chronicles . Galsworthy returned to the passionate relationships that made the saga of the first trilogy so readable. I was saddened mostly by Soames's death and his courage, even if misplaced, in defending his paintings and the prevailing moral codes of his youth . As an equally passionate fan of Powell's Dance to the Music of Time, I found both depictions of the 1920s and 30s quite revealing.
Galsworthy ends the second part of the chronicles on a high. His writing is exquisite revealing a wonderful understanding of people combined with a feeling for nature, the landscape and the social issues of the 1920s. The threads of this novel weave there way back to the beginning of the saga. The depiction of an ageing Soames is pitch perfect.
If you've read all the others, you have to read this to complete the saga, although it is the weakest of the lot. When finishing, had not interest in going on to the End of the Chapter, which follows a different, tangential set of characters.
http://www.amazon.com/gp/cdp/member-r...
4.2
Galsworthy definitely has ended this part of the series on a high note. Best book of the three in A Modern Comedy. Rather sad to see this end.
