https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374233.If_on_a_Winter_s_Night_a_Traveler
You are about to read Mark Nicholls’s review of Italo Calvino’s postmodern classic If on a Winter’s Night a Traveller.
You might think this review an obvious imitation of Calvino’s unique style, and become irate as you read on, wondering when the reviewer is going to get around to summarising the plot.In fact, you become so irate, you search for the book on Amazon, but are incandescent when you notice each review is also written in the same imitative style, and the gimmick becomes so irritating you have to leave the room for a moment to calm yourself down.As you leave the room, someone knocks on the door.
As you return to the living room, you notice that Mark Nicholls has broken into your house and is sitting naked on the couch reading Italo Calvino’s novel If on a Winter’s Night a Traveller.
"YO DAWG, I HEARD YOU LIKE READING, SO I PUT A BOOK IN YO' BOOK, SO YOU CAN READ WHILE YO' READ."
I say this is what happened:Italo Calvino was suffering from a writer's block.
Finally, his publishers got impatient because it had been years since the last novel and they said:'Italo, get your shit together!
We need a new book.
Italo, but those are just beginning of some 10 different books...''Yeah.
It's postmodernism!!''Ok...''You know, I am playing with the concept of the author.
And one word for you: deconstructionism.There is no doubt that Calvino is (was) one hell of a writer and he plays with his poor readers like a cat plays with a mouse.
All the female characters are more or less passive.
As I plunked them down on the check-in counter, a thin matronly woman approached."Would you like to check these books in?""Yes I would but I would also like to...""Oh, I see you read If on a Winter's Night a Traveler by Italo Calvino.""Yes I did.
Have you read it too?""On starting the first few pages, you were put off by what appears to be a artistic gimmick.""Why yes a little.
For the unique part of the novel is that Calvino holds nothing back about the mechanics of his literary mind.""OK, this is getting a little weird.""It makes you wonder.
Original review: November 2011Imagine that it is winter and there is snow everywhere and you can't go out and all you do for days is read book after book, story after story, gorging yourself on fiction until your subconscious is saturated with characters and plots.
Yesterday, I came across Calvino's rationale for the book written in a complex code in the yellowed pages of an old copy of one of the volumes published by the experimental mathematician-writers and writer-mathematicians of the Oulipo group.
The protagonist of the book is apparently 'you'- the reader- who then moves through the inter-textuality of the novel to come across different manuscripts- each of which is interrupted just after 'You' begins to relish it; and 'You' continues to search for a thread through which 'You' can connect these manuscripts, however soon 'You' realizes that it's a futile attempt to look for such a  thread , and that too not before 'You' finds another character facing the same dilemma- both of you spans bookshops, probable authors (of those manuscripts) to look for such a  thread .
It's one of those books which stands alone and shine like sun.
There are a few books which you come across where the writing, the prose (so lyrical, and beautiful), makes such an impact that it leaves you completely dazzled, and for a while you are stunned: that, wow!
The Writing is magical, hypnotizing!
It casts a spell and you can feel nothing but in awe.
It goes very deep into the psyche of the readers (which happens to be human though!), and always astonishes you with great insights into the experience of reading.
Reading this book is like having the experience of 'experience of reading'.
The main character is a reader who can’t finish a book because the print copies are mixed up and he ends up reading first chapters of various novels over and over again.
Actually there are two women, sisters, who have different ideas about books and what the purpose of reading is.
But it’s not fair to really focus on the “plot.” Like many of Calvino’s works, this is more a work of philosophy than a novel.
The book is made up of ten stories; think of them as chapters.
There’s a chapter on ways of reading a book.
Or maybe you read to remember all the lives you haven't lived, or that important person who left a permanent track on you, whom you don’t expect to see again, or to delight again in the innocent thrill of being told a story like in your childhood days.
Rather than displaying his artistry through a sophisticated or overly ornamented narrative style, he turns the focus on the Reader, who becomes the true protagonist of this contemporary novel(s), where the experience of reading mirrors the act of writing.
And so what could be better than a book composed of only beginnings?
You should have seen him laugh when I told him about the line from Doctor Who, “First things first, but not necessarily in that order.” He enjoyed starting a story at the beginning so much, he couldn’t help doing it over and over.So I will start at the beginning, in his footsteps.When my story, indeed your story, began, I was in my thirties and at the height of my career as an academic, author and public intellectual as they used to say in those days.Before I met your mother, I thought I could have any woman I wanted, and I almost did.To my great regret, I persisted in this belief after I married Maria, though it was my great good fortune that I never acted on any of my impulses.This story partly concerns just how close I did come.Being an author of fiction, I looked on writing as an act of love, an act of seduction.
You can see from the preview shown on your updates feed that Aubrey has taken the route of imitating Italo Calvino's singular point of view that he grants the reader in this book, and confident in your expectations of what's to come you click the link to read more when...Stop.
This is a book for those who believe in its magic.Italo Calvino knows you, Reader.
How about, for once, the magic stays, long after the last page is turned?You will find it here, Reader.
Although second person narration is rare, and I’m female, somehow it worked.As if that’s not enough, there is also an artist, Irnerio, who makes recursive art from books – which are then published as books themselves – even though he has cultivated the art of learning not to read (by looking at words intensely, until they disappear).And on top of that, there is influencing the other way round: some of the chapters within this novel could almost be Jorge Luis Borges or Kafka short stories, with falsified documents, recursion and reflection, doubles, a kind of labyrinth, playing with time and space, paradoxes, and confused bureaucracy and justice.
You gaze, confounded, at your laptop, vainly trying to find a way to review this so-called novel, which you, an anglophone, have perversely read in French, not the native language either of yourself or of the author.
Many portions of the book are supposedly translated from other languages: Japanese, Spanish, and, indeed, French.
He has only translated it from the true source, composed in the language of Cimmerian.""But this is ridiculous!" you protest.
"Anyone who has the slightest familiarity with invented languages will know at once that no such thing could be done.
He thinks that This is a fun interactive novel where the reader is prepared by the words, intelligence and a lot of temptations, and Italo Calvino, the central image in the book - Triumphal Entry of art, the writers might have to deal with major changes in our global communications.
Geoff Wilt has something to add to what he said earlier: This is a novel of interesting interactions where the reader is prepared by the words intelligent, and so many temptations, and Italo Calvino, the central image in the book Triumphal Entry of the art, writers can have to deal with major changes in our global communications.
Imagination, Winged Push me not, not right now,Frozen feet is all I have;Shine me not, not right now,Calming dark is all I have;Correct me not, not right now,Impelling doubt is all I have;Wake me not, not right now,Breathing dream is all I have.Long ago, when I jotted down this poem, I was amidst a whirlwind of events: my final year exams were impending, my heartache was fresh, my best friend had left the city and my muscle tear was repaired but still throbbed a bit. So, I had little to rejoice
And so, the cycle continued and I, after numerous efforts, cowed in and ended up writing just these eight lines.Not as timid as me, of course, Calvino drew much constructive fury from his various storms.
Simply put, it is a story of a Reader (which is you) who starts reading a book after buying it from a bookshop and after reading a few pages, finds the rest of pages missing .
I mean come on, Calvino didn’t write this novel (or antinovel, like I read somewhere) so that some random reader would read this epic book and dare to have an opinion.
And no, I am not trying to establish a relationship or comparison between the two books but can’t help myself admiring this kind of experimental literature where the reader feels like a part of the book from both inside and outside.
An aim to constitute a cult or to write something which being a reader one always wants to read (He mentioned Arabian Nights more than once which could be a possible influence).
Çok geçmeden ne olduğunu anlamaya çalışırken olayın içinde buluyorsunuz kendinizi, romanın başkahramanı oluveriyorsunuz ve Calvino'nun tam da yapmak istediği şey bu aslında.
Roman boyunca romanla aynı adı taşıyan bir romanın eksik bir parçasını bulmaya çalışıyoruz ve bunu adeta bir ölüm kalım meselesine çeviriyoruz.
Bu muazzam bir dönüşüm ve o kadar farkettirmeden yapıyor ki bunu Calvino, kitabı kapattığımızda puzzle eksik kalmış oluyor, açtığımızda oyun devam ediyor.
Calvino Bir Kış Gecesi Eğer Bir Yolcu ile bize kurgu nasıl yapılır, öğretiyor.
Calvino kötü okur olmak ile ilgili çok düşünmüş iyi bir yazar.
Hikaye anlatmakla oyun oynamanın da birbirine paralel gittiğini iyi çalışmış, çözmüş bir yazar ayrıca.
میره برای عوض کردن کتاب، بهش یه کتاب دیگه می دن اما وقتی اون رو می خونه، می بینه یه داستان دیگه است.
به خوندن داستان ادامه میده اما اون هم نیمه کاره است، و وقتی میره برای عوض کردن باز به اشتباه یه کتاب دیگه بهش می دن و اون هم نیمه کاره است و همین طور...
اون روایت های ناتمام از کتاب های مختلف، گاهی (فقط گاهی) جذابیتی دارن، اما وقتی میدونی که قراره نیمه کاره رها بشن، همون جذابیت نصفه و نیمه هم از بین میره.
It is interesting to note that while in fiction it is norm to not address the readers directly, because reading being an exercise in abandonment in a created world, so the reader doesn’t want to be reminded of the fact that it is make-belief after all.
In this exercise, the character of the reader in the book is kept sufficiently incomplete so the reader you, irrespective of your intentions find common ground and ultimately sink into the identity that is confined by Calvino’s created world.It is a clever book on many counts.
At least, that's what I thought until the end of Chapter 2, when the story I was allegedly reading "If on a Winter's Night a Traveler" was perfunctorily cut off and Calvino began addressing his main character as the second person "you," leading to vast confusion of a wholly unpleasant nature.
And so the book progresses, alternating throughout from the first chapter of various Books That Have Not Been Written to the maddening second-person pronoun-filled main "story," though none of it ever makes sense aside from as a plot device to string together 14 first chapters of Books That You Would Rather Read Than This One.I'm not one to let books offend me on a regular basis.
Because just as the reader tries to form an image of the story-teller in his/her mind, the writer too keeps his/her prospective reader in mind while penning down his/her thoughts.A pure work of genius that is bound to enthrall readers for generations to come and perhaps it won't be an exaggeration to state that many aspiring writers may want to adopt this book as their Bible.
How to write and how to describe this novel?If I had 1 / 10th the talent of Italo Calvino will be easy.This is the story of a male and a female reader, have in it ten stories in a narrative, is a labyrinth where I loved losing myself, a journey through the imagination of its author.This book is tasted, savored, take time, discover the landscape with a thousand faces, kaleidoscope style.I can not tell you more, you now discover that novel. If a winter's night a traveler Italo Calvino speaks to you, please go ahead.
This alway has a helpful fouth-wall-breaking hand to guide you on your way, with a constant theme of self-reference that often goes off the deep end of metaphysics but doesn't really.
:)You know, just like the droids.And yet, it always is the novel you were looking for, fake within fake within fake and always turning back in upon the central theme that makes this so special: Books.
Truth hidden deep, a story like an onion that can be peeled over and over and yet remains always the same.I can honestly say I'm thrilled to have read this.
…”  “Reading is going toward something that is about to be, and no one yet knows what it will be …””The book I would like to read now is a novel in which you sense the story arriving like still-vague thunder, the historical story along with the individual’s story, a novel that gives the sense of living through an upheaval that still has no name, has not yet taken shape …”.As the Reader begins to seek a personal relationship with Ludmilla, his efforts are interfered with by her sister Lotaria.
I feel a throng of readers looking over my shoulder and seizing the words as they are set down on paper.The analogies of reading and sex are a wonderful topic of play for Calvino.
Calvino met a muse.Then he met a metamuse.But was it all a ruse?nyehh...Who am I to disabuse?I had such grandiose plans for reviewing this book.
I briefly toyed with the idea of a metareview of those reviews, but lacked the energy and time to follow through.
Besides, I’ve produced a lot of flab lately and decided to avoid the excess this time.
If what you seek is insight, humor, or tributes in kind (masterfully metafictive in some cases), check out the reviews by Ian, Garima, Aubrey, Kalliope, Michael, Madeleine, Brian, Samadrita, Algernon, Drew, Jonathan, JSou, MJ, and/or Manny.
And it becomes necessary that I, as the reviewer, should ensure you that I’ve happened to come across some previously undisclosed information about the author – some gossip you might say … but you prefer the word ‘trivia’, well, as you like it, some trivia which shall entirely change or, if I may be so bold to say, enhance your reading experience.
Είναι το πρώτο δικό του βιβλίο που διαβάζω και χωρίς να έχω ιδιαίτερη γνώση της βιβλιογραφίας του, για να γνωρίζω αν πρόκειται για ένα από τα πιο αντιπροσωπευτικά του έργα, βρήκα τούτο δω ένα εξαιρετικά ενδιαφέρον και πρωτότυπο ανάγνωσμα που για να πείσεις τον αναγνώστη να το διαβάσει ως το τέλος σημαίνει ότι γράφεις καλά.
Είναι ένα πολύ ιδιαίτερο βιβλίο και δε σας κρύβω ότι και εγώ η ίδια που το ευλογώ αυτή τη στιγμή είχα στιγμές που χάθηκα λίγο στην ανάγνωση όμως ήταν τόσο πραγματικά ενδιαφέρουσα η σύλληψη και εκτέλεση της ιδέας που παρέλειπα τις όποιες απορίες μου και ξαναχανόμουν μέσα στις σελίδες του.
لو أن مسافرا في ليلة شتاء بهذا الكتاب وحده، دخل كالفينو قائمة كتابي المفضلين، نادي مجانين السرد الذين يقلبون كيانك بكتاباتهم، أظهر كالفينو كل قدراته وكل سخريته في هذه الرواية، ها هو يصنع عملاً مبهراً، عن فن القراءة وعن فن الكتابة معاً، نوع من ألف ليلة وليلة معاصرة، حيث يقفز القارئ من قصة إلى قصة من دون أن يدرك نهاية لأي منها، وكل قصة لا تفضي إلى قصة كما هو الحال في ألف ليلة وليلة، وإنما كل قصة تبتر بسبب غباء وتلاعب دور النشر والمؤلفين، هكذا...
But besides my relationship to other people, if I'm 'forced' to think about what defines me, what I know I've always been, as far back as I can remember, is a Reader.
But these were moments only, and then I could feel myself smiling at the meaning, and the skill of Calvino -- his prose is, surprisingly, (as far as my pre-perceptions at what this book might've been like) extremely 'readable' -- just as I was smiling even more at the very last sentence of this amazing book.
If you are a Reader, I think You will love this book.
Some of those first chapters eerily resembles what is happening in the second-person chapters.This book was originally published in 1979 in Italian and its English translation came out 3 years after.
This is why my reading has no end: I read and reread, each time seeking the confirmation of a new discovery among the folds of the sentences."3rd: "I, too, feel the need to reread the books I have already read but at every rereading I seem to be reading a new book, for the first time."4th: "...Every new book I read comes to be a part of that overall and unitary book that is the sum of my readings.
