https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/713276.A_Barbarian_in_Asia
(I loved reading about the sexual positions in their architecture.) He says that the Europeans wouldn't enjoy intercourse with an Indian woman.
(I didn't know what Michaux looked like until I was almost done reading the book, though.
"One would think it was taking to the air like a sheet with hands." I loved that.
The bat you might not know is there like their buzzing.
I don't know I would have thought of that the way Michaux did.
But you know, the wondering what could have been true about people, telling his definitives to shut the hell up, and living off of the mirror smiles.
Entrar hoy en “Un bárbaro en Asia” es viajar con él en el tiempo y en el espacio, leer para reír con Michaux, emocionarse con él y escandalizarse por él hasta querer tirarle de las orejas en más de una ocasión.
“Jamás, jamás podrá sospechar el hindú hasta qué punto exaspera al europeo”.Podrás estar de acuerdo o no con lo que dice –el autor no juzga, sólo condena o absuelve−, pero estás ahí, te trasladas a los parajes y las culturas en que penetra con todos los sentidos, SUS sentidos.
Una desesperación sin recursos y sin más allá que sólo existe entre nosotros”.Necesito leer “Ecuador”, que es su primer libro de viajes.
Cada vez me convenzo más de que no son el estilo ni el intelecto los que escriben.
Una descripción geográfica de Asia que va llenando todo el cuadro mental como en una etnográfica pornografía marvelística aparejada a una lectura más psicologica o espiritual que transmite una pasmosidad digna de los solitarios personajes de Tsai Ming-liang o Wong Kar-wai -dice Michaux sobre los hindúes que ve atiborrando las calles: “De pie, los ojos parecen de hombres acostados”, y, más adelante, sobre la manía que tienen estos de tumbarse en sitios inverosímiles, agrega: “¿Es posible acaso preveer donde un gato va a echarse?".
¿Quién consigue en la actualidad apuntar a tanto flancos sin que se le noten las costuras a cada uno de los programados intentos por achuntarle al clima moral de la época?
Mon auteur favori Nicolas Bouvier le cite si souvent qu'il me fallait le découvrir.
Dans le contexte des années 30, c'est délicat.
Souvent, Michaux n'évite pas l'écueil des généralités: "le Chinois est comme ceci, le Bengali comme cela, ...".
Le monde change, et si les observations de Nicolas Bouvier restent pertinentes et délicieuses, celles d'Henri Michaux s'avèrent vite dépassées.
C'est parce que Bouvier s'intéressait aux individus, en évitant les généralisations.
Si Bouvier considérait Michaux comme un maître, alors je dirais que l'élève a dépassé le maître.
Peut-être une seconde oeuvre de Michaux me permettra de corriger mon jugement.
It's hard to believe, almost mind-boggling, that a total kook and wingnut such as this guy could travel in such interesting places as India, Nepal, Ceylon, China, Japan, and Malaysia in the late 1920s and early 1930s, and come back with so little of interest to say about it. I swear I think you could have taken any literate or semi-literate person alive in France in 1929 or 1930 or 1931 and sent him or her on this trip, and I almost guarantee that person would have come back with more interesting observations than this monkey did.
Oh, the irony of this author! Amazing!
Chaque texte de Michaux, c'est comme un bonbon qu'on mange, un bonbon à la fois amer et léger. J'aime la description de la vie du voyage, plus que du voyage même. Je suis fascinée par la dernière phrase, elle me reste en tête même des années plus tard - cette mention du retour, à la fin du livre de voyage. Je reste tout aussi collée à la contemplation.
O nome na capa engana...Este não pode ser o verdadeiro Henri Michaux...o relato de viagem pelos confins da Ásia do Michaux que conheço teria de ser muito mais interessante que isto...Ou foram drogas a mais que impediram fazer um melhor levantamento das impressões ou foram drogas a menos que impediram de fazer um livro melhor...
Perfection. Michaux's French prose submerges the reader into distant lands, religions, and customs - a true transplantation, other-worldly experience. The last line of the introduction sums it up best: "Barbare on fut, barbare on doit rester."
I forgive him if he is ever paternalistic or colonial minded. He's a great observer with a poet's DNA.
Anecdotario.
Several years ago, I read Sylvia Beach's memoir  Shakespeare and Company , grew very interested in her work, and bought this book because it seemed a perfect mixture of my interest in Sylvia Beach (who is the translator), French literature, Asian history, and travel writing.Having just finished  Lands of Lost Borders: Out of Bounds on the Silk Road , a modern-day travel narrative (which, incidentally, I would highly recommend), I decided it was finally time to pick up A Barbarian in Asia.I knew
, grew very interested in her work, and bought this book because it seemed a perfect mixture of my interest in Sylvia Beach (who is the translator), French literature, Asian history, and travel writing.Having just finished 
I read some colonial literature in college, and this outpaced most of those books for its repetitive generalizations and lack of understanding of the local cultures.
While there is some value in reading books like A Barbarian in Asia in order to have a better historical understanding (for example, to make it clear just how culturally blinded Western Europeans/Americans were), I think this book would be best studied in that context (or perhaps not at all).
Absolutely hilarious book of some French guy reflecting (ranting, in true form) about his experiences in Asia in the 30s-50s. Not even remotely politically correct, instead consisting of broad generalizations of race and religion that certainly could not be published today, though ultimately all of it born out of a genuine humanity and playfulness. Read the entirety of it in approximately 24 hours - it is light enough and full of quotes, just not the ones you'd use in more polite company.
Un libro de viajes de un Marco Polo del siglo XX que traficaba bienes espirituales y culturales.
At first I wanted to give it a single star for torturing me so much into finishing it.
I'd pick it up, get bored, disagree, put it down, again and again.
It felt like I had to listen to his opinions because I was the one asking him in the beginning, by buying his book.
My mistake for thinking it would be more interesting..Alas, it barely has a beginning and an end, being a compilation of small stories or thoughts.
As for information, it tells you how it was seen in the 60's, but for me, it is like an old map (outdated).
Apparently, Donald Barthelme used to recommend this book to all of his students. This and Three Poems, by John Ashbery, but that's proving difficult to find.It's interesting, but not a continuous narrative, which I think I need right now. This is one I'll probably dip into every once in a while.
French surreal poetry made into a travelogue. A bit dated, too much Orientalism, but a helluva a read nonetheless... taste of European notions of Asia on the edge of the end of European global domination.
Just about everything by Michaux is an eye-openner. This one reads like a lullabye.
Horrendous. Awful. Should have known by the title.
http://www.1001calatorii.com/2010/11/...
Barbarian in Asia by Henri Michaux
A book about people, places, habits, all described with passion and humor. Very nice reading :)
Ha-ha! Pe alocuri parca as fi scris eu...
I fell asleep every time I picked this book up. Disjointed writing, grand pronouncements about entire populations based on the experiences of one man, and vague descriptions make for a tedious read.
