https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100100.The_Prophets
But as I have come to read Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel, I have come to rejoice in the God of the Old Testament and his judgement and be at peace when I hear about his anger.
In Amos 3: 1-2, he says,1 Hear this word that the LORD has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt: 2 "You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.Does chosenness mean that God is exclusively concerned with Israel?
It is common to characterize the prophet as a messenger of God, thus to differentiate him from the tellers of fortune, givers of oracles, seers, and ecstatics.
The prophet claims to be far more than a messenger.
The prophet not only conveys; he reveals.
In speaking, the prophet reveals God. This is the marvel of a prophet's work: in his words, the invisible God becomes audible.
The authority of the prophet is in the Presence his words reveal.Heschel digs deep into selected prophets and shows how they were not just God's messengers but God's witnesses, interpreters, and friends.
I acknowledge that I have done wrong, I didn't have to do it, I knew it was wrong, I chose to do it, I profited by it, I wish I had not, and I am willing to make atonement.Accepting God's forgiveness is an act of faith and, for that reason, can penetrate all the more deeply into those mysterious, inaccessible places of my heart.
As a Catholic the Sacrament of Penance helps me believe that God forgives me, provided I have approached the sacrament with sorrow, regret and true repentance.
Acknowledging my sin to another person helps me "realize" both my sorrow and my faith in God. Without actually speaking to another person who has the authority to represent God, how can I persuade myself that I have truly made atonement?
At the same time, their general opposition to violence and military might set them not only at odds with the conservatism of their day but also with the violent pagan systems surrounding them."Others have considered history from the point of view of power, judging its course in terms of victory and defeat, wealth and success; the prophets look at history from the point of view of justice, judging its course in terms of righteousness and corruption, of compassion and violence" (219).Still, the more one reads the communal perspective of the prophets, the more strange become the deep individualism and pietism of much of Christian faith, whether Roman, Protestant, or Eastern.
This begins with a general discussion of the sort of man that the prophet was, before going into individual readings of the prophets and discussion of the historical contexts in which they operated.The book then moves into a theological and philosophical discussion of the phenomenon of Biblical prophecy, and then on to a discussion of the explanations for prophetic inspiration.
In this section, Heschel does a thorough job of cataloging the many distinctions that separate the particular character of Biblical prophecy from the superficially similar phenomena also found in that part of the ancient world.The Prophets is a rewarding read.
It is not simply an act of disclosing, but is an act of disclosing to someone, the bestowal of a content, God addressing the prophet.” (page 217)The two volumes of the Prophets bound into one book is one of those scholarly works—rich, and thick (and I’m not referring to the number of pages) but the kind of thing that, thought I sometimes struggle through, broadens and enhances my understanding of the biblical prophets.
Good stuff but not for the faint of heart.
Absolutely awesome. He had me in tears in the Introduction. That's pretty good. It is a study of the prophets from the standpoint of divine pathos. A tremendous reflection upon the emotional concern of God for man. There are some dangers I suppose if you took this too far, but if you or anyone needs a cure for a view of God - a dispassionate stoic - this is it. This one goes right up toward the top of my list!
A classic !
The central defining attribute of a prophet is divine sympathy, or identification with the will of God. Thus, prophets experience the divine pathos, and carry the message of God's concern to man.I would divide the book into three sections: (1) an in-depth look at the literary prophets of the Old Testament e.g. Amos, Jeremiah, Isaiah (2) a development of the theology of prophecy, and (3) a compare/contrast with different ideas of prophecy in different times and cultures.
Less a work of historical criticism than a philosophical tract (though certainly thoroughly researched and highly critical), Heschel holds up the prophets of the Tanakh as exemplars of not just divine revelation, but also of :"divine pathos" and "prophetic sympathy," men attuned to God's concern for humankind and brave enough to speak His word to those who've forgotten it. The key here is reciprocity between the divine and the human, a concept to which I fully subscribe.
I have read the vast majority of this book for a graduate level Prophets course. It's commentary is extraordinarily helpful in understanding both the major and minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. In particular I appreciated how Heschel embeds the word into his commentary. Through his work, Heschel helps develop what the prophet Hosea calls daath elohim - an intimate sensitivity for who God is and God hopes and desires for relationship with humanity and all creation.
Volume Two is more scholastic than Volume One and a slower more difficult read. As I read it, I had the sweet feeling of being in the presence of a master. What a beautiful mind! What a beautiful soul!
Aš pasiėmiau šią knygą tikėdamasi daugiau teorinės distancijos, bet tai turbūt ne knygos problema ir manau, kad nuoširdžiai religingi žmonės gali joje atrasti daugiau ir įvertinti ją geriau negu aš.Nepaisant to, pranašai ir jų tekstai, kaip jau minėjau, nėra optimistiškas skaitinys.
Labai nenoriu įžeisti niekieno religinių jausmų, bet noriu papasakoti apie pranašus atskirai, kaip jie man pasirodė, ir pastebėjau, kad kai bandau kažką daryti „pagarbiai“, išeina kažkokia nesąmonė, tai gal papasakosiu kaip išeina, dar sykį atsiprašydama, jei kažką tai įžeis.
Izajas sako, kad Asirija yra Dievo būdas nubausti Judėja, bet paskui jis sunaikins ir Asiriją.
I say this because his book is devoted to telling us about the passions that the prophets felt that encouraged, even compelled, them to speak.Heschel’s view of prophecy is radically different than that of Maimonides (1138-1204).
He considered this emotion a good thing, and contended that their emotional reactions to what they saw around them prompted them to speak.
They saw and understood what the general population did not understand.Heschel not only contends that emotions are good and that it is an emotional reaction that compels prophets to speak, he also takes the biblical stories about God’s reactions to the Israelite behavior literally and states that God also has emotional reactions.
After reading "The Prophetic Imagination," I concluded "The Prophets" was probably the most important work of scholarship of the Hebrew scriptures in the last 50 years.
After reading, "The Prophets," I have concluded it is the most important work of scholarship of the Hebrew scriptures in the last 100 years.
His central point is that rather than viewing the prophets as predictors of the future, that the prophets are messengers of the pathos of God. This approach can revolutionize prophetic interpretation leading to a relational God who, though retaining His transcendence, is present and immanent in His creation.
The pathos of God reveals God as a person, who suffers and feels and is moved and effected by humanity.
"Heschel does a wonderful job in this classic text deconstructing Greek influences on our conception of God and the prophets.
He brilliantly states that the job of the prophet is to empathize with the pathos of God. It's the same kind of thing we do.
Heschel marched with King and is a radical thinker, right up our alley.
But in his polemic against other faiths, he seems to protect Jesus and Paul, in particular (never hurling a critique of them).
But he does have good things to say about the over-emphasized patriarchs of our faith." -- Jonny
This is not lightly to be entertained. The mode of reflection would be strange to someone unaccustomed to theology (a/o religion), but that is not a critique. It's thoughtful and a sensible attempt to explore the human dimension and individual qualities of prophets without attempting to rationalize them or reduce them to that dimension and those qualities. Requires simultaneous meditative and reflective effort.
Excelrnte libro para estudiar la pasión de los profetas bíblicos. Hrtmosamente escrito, A.J. Heschel permite vibrar con el reclamo de los diferentes mensajeros de D's y sus mensajes ya sea de reclamos a los reyes, luchas sociales, injusticias, entre otros.Muy recomendable para el estudioso de la Biblia Hebrea.
Great book, but start with God in Search of Man
Thorough exAMINATION OF THE PROPHETI MOOD IN iSRAAEL.
This is an eerily good read; I'm a little scared of its relevance. Skimming, so not reviewing, but I'm sure I'll revisit as I read through the rest of the Bible.
Justice is thus an inter-personal relationship, and exists only in context of community.Implication: Justice doesn’t exist apart from God. Wherefore humanism then?3.
Why justice doesn’t exist apart from God — reason 1:“Justice represented as a blindfolded virgin, while conveying the essential thought of the rightful caution of the mind against illusions and partiality of the heart, conceives the process of justice as a mechanical process, as if the life of man were devoid of individuality and uniqueness and could be adequately understood in terms of inexorable generalisations.
Why justice doesn’t exist apart from God — reason 2:The personalisation of the moral idea is the indispensable assumption of prophetic theology.
A tremendous work of scholarship, and of inspiration.
We approach Him, not by making Him the object of our thinking, but by discovering ourselves as the objects of His thinking." (623-624)"In turning toward God, man experiences God's turning toward him." (624)"In prophetic thinking, man is the object of God's vision, concern, and understanding.
It is man's vision, concern, and understanding for God that is the goal." (624)
363)The prophet's mission is not merely to bring the word of God to man, but equally to represent man before God. Heschel sees the prophet as a tragic figure, constantly caught between God's high expectations of man, and his own compassion for his people's weakness.
And yet, the prophet must remain convinced of the eventual reform of society, via the right choices of individuals.
The prophet's mission is not to inculcate religious dogmas, but rather, to teach and to admonish, and to open the heart of those in power to the needs of the weakest members of society.
Freedom presupposes openness of heart, of mind, of eye and ear.
This book is an absolutely incredible argument that the literary prophets' main agenda is God's pathos as a call for justice in humanity.
In Heschel's meditative yet highly persuasive tone, he shows why the literary prophets are so relevant and what we should do about it.
And of course, Heschel enacted the social justice the prophets called for throughout his own life.However, I sometimes found his assumptions inconsistent with his arguments, and sometimes, inconsistent with the literary text.
Even with my disagreements with the text, I will be referring to The Prophets as an integral part of my bookshelf, as a resource in counseling, Jewish education, and my own personal growth, for years to come.
This is an excellent, comprehensive treatment of the Biblical prophets.
Heschel opens with brief summaries of a few notable prophetic books in Scripture, and then moves to an understanding of the person, office, convictions, and emotions associated with Biblical prophecy.
He discusses the emotions of God as seen through the prophets, and gives an excellent explanation of the wrath of God. The only weakness I see is it's wordiness and excessive use of examples, however, I must say the Scriptural references are a great testament to Heschel's Biblical knowledge.
3 stars for wordiness, 5 for content, averaged out into 4 stars.
Longish, but a very interesting read overall.
The first part is quite good, giving a clear description of the prophets, their message and the political/theological rationale behind their rhetoric.
When Heschel delves into the concept of Pathos as his hermeneutic horizon for understanding the unique approach of the prophets, he is thorough and rigorous.
The concept of Pathos is interesting and useful to describe the distinctive character of Jewish Monotheism.
I would rather he had left off with the full articulation of Pathos, and let up with some of the attempt to distinguish Pathos and Prophets from other forms of theological understanding of Deity and the religious expression that this engenders.
This is a phenomenal book. Other theologians should take note: Heschel has proven that it is possible to express profound ideas in understandable, even eloquent language. Obscurity is not a measure of the greatness of a book. In addition, Heschel writes unapologetically, but intelligently, from a faith perspective, and avoids the modern error of trying to understand religious faith from a non-faith stance. The big contribution he makes is his understanding of God's pathos, or, more popularly put, God's caring. Heschel contrasts God's pathos with the view of other theologies that God's perfection precludes emotion.

