https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96980.Centaur_Aisle
The first Piers Anthony book I ever read.At my middle school, there was a yearly book drive where everyone would bring in boxes of books from home and all the kids could go buy books for a dollar.
Especially in these early books, which had not yet become the endless list of fan-suggested puns and ephebophilic anti-sexuality that are his current fare.
I know he does have some adult fans, and truthfully, I'm glad they're inside reading the latest Xanth novel instead of out in the world somewhere, voting.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
I really don't know why people say these books are so sexist because (view spoiler)[Irene proposes to Dor (hide spoiler)] and also what Dor thought of at that time (and I quote) (view spoiler)[ "She had a body, true--but what pleased him most was the loyalty implied.
Dor realized he needed that support..." (hide spoiler)] there is also the fact that the female in the group is a real helpful person.
(hide spoiler)]She is a women and a real person, not written in a sexist way.
Sure, there are sexist characters in the book, but thats okay because there are people in the world like that.
I liked this book and can't wait to read the next one!!
Young love, sexual tension, heroism, principles and danger; it was really all I wanted after I read this book.Even if I go back and discover these books weren't as good as I remember (highly likely considering the span of years that's passed), I gotta give credit to them for helping raise me in a sense.
Senses of justice were pretty much instilled in me by these books, like new-age Arthurian legends.
I wanna give you a hug Anthony (even if you are a corpse) for helping instill something in me at a young age.
I'm working my way through the Xanth series and finding it quite enjoyable.
There's a bit of nostalgia – these were the gateway books that led me into a life of loving fantasy novels, and I still read them with quite a bit of fondness.
Reading it as an old man and as a much more seasoned reader than I was when I first read these books as a teenager (that long ago?
Then it becomes longer and longer, and King Trent and Queen Iris have not returned.Getting help from Irene, Smash, Grundy and Chet they start out on an adventure to find King Trent, and along the way discover the new Magician that has suddenly appeared in the land of Xanth.
Whether Dor is able to complete his journey will help determine if he can rule a kingdom, while along the way trying to figure out his true feelings for Irene.It is a fun adventure, one that is the first to have the characters have a prolonged exposure to Mundania, and one that starts to show how Xanth is land of puns.
We join Dor who is now sixteen years old, & King Trent has asked him to watch the realm while he has travelled to Mundania, ahem Earth, to establish a trading partner.
He has found he has deep feeling for Irene, and that helps mature him and help complete his Xanthish search for the missing royals.A lovely book and well written, we see a lot more of Mundania, ahem Earth; very funny and punny!!!
These early editions of Xanth novels are always filled with the best kind of OG fantasy nostalgia feels for me, from the master, Piers Anthony.
Another really fun adventure in Xanth. Dor is the second generation to be chronicled and this is his second adventure. King Trent is raising Dor in the palace to give him training in how to be a monarch. However, this got interrupted when King Trent went on a week's visit to Mundania and never came back. Dor and several companions including the king's daugher, Irene, set out to find the King and rescue him. The puns flow quickly in this romp. As does love. This isn't great literature I suppose, but what a fun ride it is!
i first discovered this series in high school for a book report... where i read demons dont dream. i found the book a couple years ago and was like hey i liked this book in high school ill read it again... and liked it again... after some research i found out it was the 16th book in a series of over 30 books... i was like... i will conquer this series... Piers Anthony's series is fun to read though not that memorable... the series does build on each book... so im excited to see where it'll go in 15+ books.
This was a pretty good entry in the Xanth series, because it included aspects of Mundania (the real world), which is always pretty entertaining. The author had an interesting take on how everyday people would react to encountering magic, and while powerful it didn't become an unstoppable trump card, which I liked. Intelligence and cunning were still necessary for success. The relationship between Dor and Irene was cute, and made me smile. Overall, a pretty lighthearted and fun read.
Dor faces the choice of risking his life or taking 10 minutes to teleport back to his castle and call ahead.
After visiting Magician Humphry Dor sets out on a journey to Centaur Ilse, for which he is woefully unprepared, particularly since Dor is currently acting as King.
So the author once again shows his MC is stupid.Next Dor leaves the magical land of Xanth for “Mundania” in search of the king he is substituting for.
About 90% of the problems Dor encounters would have been avoided if he just constantly spoke to the things around him AND ASKED FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS.
Quote from the acknowledgements: "May those who feel Xanth is sexist have pleasure in this novel, where Mundania is shown to be worse." Fortunately, this aspect of the book is redeemed somewhat by the positive development of Irene's character, and the story itself is not bad, although some parts seem to me to be drawn out quite unnecessarily.
AKA "Irene's Legs"Where are Dor's parents? They had been traveling to Mundania intermittently, but have been completely absent from the last two books. Also, Dor should be 17 and Irene 15 or 16, according to the timeline. How are they now both 15?Inconsistencies aside, the creative adventure is being replaced by sexualization of Irene. At the start, there's normal teen flirting, but this turns into constant up-skirting, child marriage, and sexual assault of a child. Irene isn't a college girl experimenting with dating. She is a CHILD, who every man in the book exploits in some way.
A new look at MundaniaThe thoughts of characters, personal interactions and the way the group interacts even with all their differences makes the story unique. I love the positive struggles of overcoming together.
Great book.
The puns go on and on and on and on. It's not so punny any more.
#24HourReadathon #Springhorror #Xanth #hour9
A fun xanth book
As always a pleasure I have read this series a hundred times. Phenomenal. I can always looked Piers Anthony for a story that just takes me away
This was as far as I got with Xanth. The stories are solid and fun, but as they continued I lost interest.
A great part of the Xanth story as Anthony travels across Xanth and into Mundania, the expansion of Dor and Iris as characters, and a very good supporting cast.
Quirky and sexist. But not a bad read.
Now an 18 year old, Dor is made temporary King of Xanth while good King Trent and his wife partake on a mission to magic-less Mundania.
Together with King Trent's 15 year old daughter, Princess Irene, Dor muddles through...
You have been warned.In addition to the main plot, there are a number of things for fans of the previous novels to look forward to reading about - one of the most important figures in Xanth gets married, the identity of the newly discovered magician is quite "obscene", and the reason for Queen Iris' long-standing poor treatment of Dor being is explained.But overall, I found it hard to pick up as opposed to put down this novel in comparison to the others.
This is the fourth book in the series and the second of Dor's adventures.
They are amongst the most important citizens of the realm, in the form of teachers or scholars or other supportive roles, offering guidance and wisdom to the human rulers of Xanth.
Their history and origin are also revealed, which is somewhat disturbing, but interesting nonetheless.The author does a fine job of allowing us to visualize the land of Xanth, and I found my imagination inspired by the vivid descriptions present.
While the author does make references to those characters, and events in previous books, the focus is purely on Dor for the most part.
They decide to go on a Quest and over the course of said Quest they discover who they are, where they belong, and fall in love."This is Dor's formula and we all came to love him in the previous book, Castle Roogna, where he set off on an adventure as a 12 year old kid.
Now he's an adult and it's his turn to fall in love.This book has 3 plots which drive it and the strongest of those is the love story.
A trip to Mundania to rescue a king30 December 2011 One of the things that I noticed about the Xanth Series is that while they were written in a particular order, and while it is probably helpful to read them in order, it is probably not necessary to do so. Personally, even though the books do not directly follow on from each other, as do most trilogies or series, it is hinted that the books are following a vague time line. Obviously Centaur Aisle follows on after Castle Roogna, but not directly
A trip to Mundania to rescue a king30 December 2011	One of the things that I noticed about the Xanth Series is that while they were written in a particular order, and while it is probably helpful to read them in order, it is probably not necessary to do so.
However Trent does not return when he is supposed to and Dor brings some friends together (a Golem and an Ogre, I think, it has been a long time since I read this book, so I am grateful to Wikipedia for having summaries of pretty much every one).
So armed with this 'weapon' they travel to Mundania to rescue King Trent.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
So in Xanth, centaurs hate magic.
Why a whole race would be written to all have the same opinion about something is also a rather too convenient way to create tension.) Anyway, Arnolde the centaur who has a magical talent is shunned by his kin.
He's babysitting the throne while King Trent is off in Mundania, land of no magic, but something goes wrong and Trent doesn't return, so Dor takes his motley magical creature troop and tries to figure out what to do about rescuing Trent.
That's why they need Arnolde: his talent is creating a magic "aisle" where there is no magic.
Centaur IsleA good bookCentaur IsleThere is a land called Xanth where anything can happen.
In Xanth everyone has magic powers.
Some of the main characters are Dor, who can talk to the imamate; Irene, who can grow plants instantly; Grundy, the golem who can talk in any langue possible, and smash an ogre who has insane strength.
There is a xanth magician whose power is knowledge.
He sensed there is a magic centaur but cannot find him.
Centaurs are known for denying or not having magic.This book was very hard to put down.
This made me think, if you could have one what magical power would you have?
When Trent doesn’t return as scheduled, Dor sets off with his friends Grundy, Chet the Centaur, Smash the Ogre, and the young woman Irene in search of Centaur Isle.The group encounters a number of obstacles as they try to find the missing king and his wife but eventually they bring the novel to a successful conclusion.Even as a young boy I barely made it through this novel as the plotting often makes little sense and the characters are scarcely one-dimensional.
Younger boys who don’t demand much in the way of writing style might enjoy the fantasy elements of this book and the world in which it is set but I can’t recommend it to anyone.As of September 1, 2012 there are 35 book in the series and Anthony has indicated he will continue to write them.
I was traveling and gave it a shot, because I hadn't tried any other books by Piers Anthony.So, it's better than most magazines.
It's not Terry Pratchett entertaining, but it was (barely) entertaining enough that I finished the book.
And Piers Anthony does a fairly good job of taking his universe's rules and tweaking them a bit, then examining the consequences.If you're looking for funny or pun-related fantasy novels, I'd start with Terry Pratchett.
If you're looking for serious fantasy novels, I'd start with The Name of the Wind.
If I ran across another Piers Anthony book, I'd probably be pretty happy to read it.
