https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72003.Angels_in_America
When we hit 35,000 feet we’ll have reached the tropopause, the great belt of calm air, as close as I’ll ever get to the ozone.
I dreamed we were there.
The plane leapt the tropopause, the safe air, and attained the outer rim, the ozone, which was ragged and torn, patches of it threadbare as old cheesecloth, and that was frightening.
And the souls of these departed joined hands, clasped ankles, and formed a web, a great net of souls, and the souls were three-atom oxygen molecules of the stuff of ozone, and the outer rim absorbed them and was repaired.
Reading these plays aloud in a high school class created more than a few awkward moments.
Kushner's overheated - and vastly overrated - opus sent me scurrying for my Yma Sumac CD, "The Voice of the Xtaby." When I want a guest to leave my apartment, I put it on with the admonition, "You must hear her 5-octave pipes!" and, shortly, I am happily alone.
Kushner, I read, thought his play might be a musical, initially, and it would have needed Yma. It still does.
The monstrous lawyer Roy Cohn, also dying, gets a ghostly visit from the pathetic Ethel Rosenberg; amid the hysteria, and juvenile raillery, an angel descends and --- where's Yma Sumac?Like Brecht, Kushner does not write "characters." He writes "symbols" : Evil, Affectation, Death, The Oppressed.
This would have probably gotten a fifth star from me(even with that awful ending) if I hadn't read Kushner's "Notes About Political Theater" at the same time, an essay which made me aware of the play's shortcomings.
Kushner writes that his goal in being a playwright is to make people aware that "[w]e are less able to see the political: in life, as in art, much energy is devoted toward blurring the political meaning of events, or even that events have political meaning", which I have trouble finding in Angels.
And Kushner's play makes itself remarkable for refusing to make people with HIV/AIDS disgusting or dirty.
ریگان همیشه به عنوان یکی از محبوب ترین رئیس جمهورهای محافظه کار تاریخ آمریکا در نظر گرفته می شود.
هر قدمی که یک انسان مومن از این جا دور می شود، یک قدم به خطر نزدیک تر می شود.» به نظر می رسد نگرانی اصلی دوست هانا از این است که او می خواهد به نیویورک برود، جایی که از نظر اعتقادات مذهبی جایگاه قابل توجهی ندارد.
او در سالت لیک سیتی بزرگ شده و به واسطه اعتقادات مورمون ها به این باور رسیده که همجنس گرایی یک گناه است.
The time has come." Angels in America is my favorite and absolutely the most beautiful play I have ever read for many, many reasons.
First and foremost, it is a real look at a historical era and crisis so often erased in popular media.
The inclusion of real historical figures like Roy Cohn and Ethel Rosenberg only grounded this even more.
At the same time, the play exists in the realm of magical realism, for lack of a better term.
If I were to choose a play that EVERYONE should read, it would be this one.
A major role belongs to the imperious, grey-winged Angel (played gloriously in the HBO adaptation by Emma Thompson) whom the lead gay character with AIDS, Prior, must straddle to get her attention: "The body is the garden of the soul." A major character in both plays play is the real-life Roy Cohn, a professional political opportunist who furthered the climate of "Witch-Hunting," persecuting not only political dissidents but inducing a "Lavender Scare" among gay men, during the Joseph McCarthy years of the 1950's.
God has literally abandoned us (evidently, during the great San Francisco earthquake), and the national and historical crises alluded to--the onset of the AIDS epidemic being the most present, but also the fall of the Soviet Union, the infection of Reagan-era individualism, the legacy of the Cold War, the Rosenberg trial--profoundly intersect with the personal crises that provide the play's sometimes overwhelming sense of trauma.Roy & Prior are each wrecked by AIDS; Harper is a pill-popping agoraphobe; there are closets galore; there are pervasive narratives of abandonment (emblematized in the one committed by God) and of comings-home; of religious doubt & the terror of change--with its corollary, the terror of stasis.
Roy Cohn is both a historical figure and a kind of literary master narrative--as my professor remarked, Roy reads almost as analogous to Milton's Satan.
I absolutely love this play.
It explores the beginning of the AIDS epidemic in the 80s, particularly its effect on the gay community.
But you don’t have to be a gay man with AIDS living in 1985 to relate to it.
It’s about dealing with loss, love, sickness, regret, hope, politics, betrayal, sex, religion, death, confusion, hate…it’s about facing yourself and trying to deal with what you find there.Angels is hands down my favorite play.
I think it’s an important play and that everyone should grab a copy of it and just read the hell out of it.
it's through her that Part 2 works.Joe at the end!
All the geeks are Nixon appointees.- I don't want to move to Washington.- Well I do.- It's a giant cemetery, huge white graves and mausoleums everywhere.- Well happy enough!
That's better than nothing.-Reaganite heartless macho asshole lawyers.- Oh, that's unfair.- What is?
A Gay Republican.- Excuse me?- Nothing.- I'm not ...
I mean you sound like a ...- No I don't.
Sounds like a ...?- What?
If I want to spend my whole life looking after white people I can get underpaid to do it.- Do you ...
Angels in America is seven hours long.
Luckily it's also one of the best.Its project is a tough one: look at the rise of AIDS in the culture of Reagan-era New York City as experienced by three men who identify as gay, one Mormon who's oriented sexually toward other men, and Roy Cohn—who spent a lifetime in the closet and died in 1986 of complications due to AIDS.
Hannah, the mother of the closeted Mormon, becomes at the end of the play a New Yorker in looks and all, amiable friends with a gaggle of gays without having gone all haggy about it.
That didn't stop me from loving the majority of the characters (but fuck Roy) and loving how they all did their part in the story.Final Rating: ★★★★☆Overall?I was pleasantly surprised with how much I liked this play, so as I write this review I'm in the middle of watching the HBO performance of it (which I highly recommend!) While I wasn't the biggest fan of the fantastical portions of this play, I really enjoyed everything else.I do have to say that I'm not the biggest fan of the agoraphobic rep.
I started reading the play but the dvd was due back at the library so I watched it.
Then when I went back to reading, my mental images were completely taken over and I was reading what I had seen.
I loved the dvd.
But wish I could have experienced it unbiased by (excellent) actors and a filmed production.
The play is heartbreaking, but has humor as well.
And it is probably the best depiction of 1980s culture and AIDS one could experience.NOTE TO SELF: I’ll come back soon to give it the star treatment.
Some day I may remove all stars from my reviews!
One married (with a woman) Mormon man, and another ruthless lawyer who refuses to admit that he is gay, and instead labels himself as a "heterosexual man who enjoys having sex with men." There are at least three other gay characters in the play (which means most other characters), and Joe's (the Mormon's) wife, who struggles to deal with the fact that her husband is actually gay.It's set in 1985-1986, and AIDS is another thing the book deals with.
Themes that naturally follow from this are things like dealing with the disease, dealing with loss; life, death, and so on and so forth.
I love this play so much, I can't even talk about it. Words, words, so many beautiful words. I'm a Tony Kushner fan girl for life.
And I bless you: More Life.Every time I try to put my feelings about this play into words, I fail to come up with anything remotely coherent. What an incredible play.
Scenes were dropped, lines were added, and Angel acrobatics came and went.
The themes it explores impacts a much broader audience.As such, it is intriguing to read this today at a time when there is so much mistrust and antagonism among Americans.
A core element is that forgiveness can be extremely difficult ...
And that forgiveness is not only difficult for humans.
The Angels have great difficulty with it, too.This edition is the last published version of the play.
The strength is not only the brilliant writing, but also in exploring the human spirit when situations are unbelievably horrific.I have been moved by this play every time I've seen it or read it.
Kushner manages to capture the tension, fear, and tragedy of the AIDS epidemic with nuance, intelligence, imagination, and magic. Angels in America is an astonishingly good read.
As Kushner says in his 2012 introduction, "The passing years have been equally if not more confirming of the plays' .
There's so much duality here--life and death, black and white, WASP and Jew (is that a duality?) light and dark, forgiveness and guilt, love and hate.
It's powerful to remember the connection between so many New Yorkers and the immigrant ancestors who escaped religious persecution to come to America.
But first, read the plays, so that you won't miss any word of this wondrous, hilarious, sad and hopeful masterpiece.
Plunged me back into 1980s NY and it was interesting to think of the parallels between then and now in politics and society's general feeling of insecurity. I'm now watching the mini series which seems very true to the script. Excellent and very moving read which I'd recommend everyone to read or go see.
Revolutionary writing about the start of the AIDs epidemic, but I wonder whether because it aims so hard, it becomes a little lost within itself. I was thinking whether this deserved 5 stars, but feel that I would need to watch this play. It is a play that needs to be performed, but is so difficult to perform.
Longing for what we've left behind, and dreaming ahead."Tony Kushner's "Angels in America" is a two-play story––comprised of Part One: Millenium Approaches, and Part Two: Perestroika––that centers on the AIDS crisis in America in the 1980's.
It's brash, profane, poetic, and often abstract, but I loved it.
His cast of character are intricately tied together through a variety of clever plot twists and almost-real visions or dream sequences, but it works.
He's sharp and clever and has a knack for poetically profane vulgarity.
Even when the play delves into the abstract and metaphorical, his characters somehow remain grounded in spite of the elevated environments they're suddenly inhabiting.
I’m rating this on the basis of seeing the play again at Berkeley Rep. I don’t love reading plays, but it is an incredible work which remains moving, funny, and politically incisive after more than 25 years. Reading it refreshed my memory from seeing the SF and HBO versions many years ago, and added interesting detail.
After seeing this on Broadway in June, I have thought about it every single day.
Reading it has left me with an even deeper love for it, but not as many answers and even a few more questions.
At the risk of sounding pretentious, this play is a work of genius.
I find myself thinking deeply about each character, questioning if I could ever answer the question "What is it about" and hungry for more historical context - to the play itself, to the AIDS crisis, to how it reads today...
Read it, see it, think about it.
I will forever.
Classic for a reason. Can't wait to see it in the National Theater this weekend. 4,5/5*
I know it's been around for awhile but I had not read Angels in America yet and I am planning to attend the Berkeley Rep production next weekend so I jumped into it the other day.
What a powerful read!
Tony Kushner is a master at words.
He creates imagery that astounds me (and I cannot wait to see this imagery manifested on the stage)and characters that make me cry.
The play has parallel themes of social injustice - AIDS and the political era ushered in by Reagan- but its value is in the truths it tells.
If you're looking at what it means to be human, I highly recommend this read.
I've read basically no plays, save the ones we read in high school and The Cursed Child, which barely qualifies as anything but garbage imo. This was a spectacular introduction to this medium of writing. This is one of the oddest things I've read. *Stefon voice* It has everything: queers, drag queens, Judaism, modern day prophets, Mormons, drug addicts, and actual Angels. I thought that the story might get lost in the fantastical format, but I was wrong. The ending was especially moving. Now I can finally watch the HBO miniseries.
this was pretty much the most compelling thing i've read in a while, from plot to themes to characters (i haven't read something in so long where i've just loved every single character, every single distinct person.
god.
but on the other hand by contrasting it with the rest of the play it gave a hint of what the play could have been if written by someone weaker, more inclined to give in to their authorial power, which thank god it wasn't).
“This disease will be the end of many of us, but not nearly all, and the dead will be commemorated and will struggle on with the living, and we are not going away. We won't die secret deaths anymore. The world only spins forward. We will be citizens. The time has come.” I read this in April of 2015 as a way to break up the rather lengthy read of Sophie's Choice because I wanted something that wouldn't take me long to read. I had previously viewed the six-hours and something minutes 2003 HBO tel
“This disease will be the end of many of us, but not nearly all, and the dead will be commemorated and will struggle on with the living, and we are not going away.
I was amazed at how much I loved this and I would recommend it to anyone who isn't afraid of something different and potentially way out of their comfort zone.
This blew me away and made me want to read more plays and more of Tony Kushner's work if there is any.
I am so glad that something pushed me to read this, because it's definitely one of my new favorites and I intend on rereading it many times.
EDIT: I read this book again for another class and I appreciated it much more the second time.
We also had the opportunity to meet Tony Kushner as a part of this class.
FIRST REVIEW: I know this play won the Pulitzer, but I just don't get it.
It gets a lot of hype, and everyone always tells me that this is THE most amazing play ever...
Then again, I'm not a big fan of magical realism, so I don't think there was any way I was ever going to like this play.
But it's definitely a play that will make you think.
