https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6777756-h-g-wells
This edition is sexy.
Unlike another reviewer who said this is dated, that is just what is so lovely about H.G. Wells.
Good vintage sci-fi not only tells a good story, but acts as a time capsule to reveal the views and concerns of a generation.
Even the writing style is very revealing.
So, if you do prefer to feel like you are sitting on the edge of your seat, Wells is not for you.
If you weird enough to enjoy feeling like you are eavesdropping on your ancestors, this book is awesome.
Did I mention that is really sexy looking?
After reading other readers review of this collection of 7 stories -- I am definitely in the minority with how I rate it.
I truly liked "In the Days of the Comet," and mainly for one reason, it offered the most in what could be looked at as dialogue, and it offered a female character.
I mean, I had read Victor Hugo's Les Miserables (unabridged 1400 page version), and loved the side stories and the richness and the main characters (both male and female).
(long review, but I deserve it after reading a very long collection of stories!)
We love these books from Barnes and Noble.Time Machine - I think it was interesting and was surprised to read that this was the first instance of a time machine in a novel.
I think the book is interesting and rewarding, offering insights and thought-provoking ideas.The Invisible Man - It is probably difficult to appreciate now how novel Wells' ideas really were at the time.
I did like the perspective on how men react to power (though, I am a bit more optimistic than Wells).
I thought some of the social commentary was interesting, though reading became more of a chore in the later books.
HG Wells was way ahead of his time. Very little that is bad in this book, except may Year of the Comet. Food of the Gods is a very well written book. Time Machine is ground-breaking. War of the Worlds and Island of Doctor Moreau are better than their movies. From Earth to the Moon is almost prophetic of Apollo in many of its details.
The Time Machine: 4*The Invisible Man: 4*The Island of Dr Moreau: 4*The War of the Worlds: 4.5*The First Men in the Moon: 4.5*The Food of the Gods: 4*In the Days of the Comet: 4*
As a pioneer in speculative fiction, Wells homed in on pure premises (“What if we could travel through time?” “What if the distinction between humans and animals was willfully blurred?” “What if we could turn invisible?” “What if an alien race arrived, who were too powerful to be withstood?”), and like Gogol’s overcoat, they – along with the work of Jules Verne and perhaps Hugo Gernsback – seeded an entire new genre in fiction.When I came across a beautiful volume of Wells’s collected science fiction (there are three additional titles that are not as well known), it was a great opportunity to properly acquaint myself with Wells.
War of the Worlds - quintessential science fiction, one of the defining novels of the genre in the 19th century.
[5/5]Time Machine - another absolute classic with imaginative speculation about the future and sophisticated thought into future societal structures.
[5/5]Invisible Man - More of a social novel yet fantastic.
[4.7/5]First Men in the Moon - I like pre-1969 books about the Moon.
This one is imaginative both in the device of transport and the flora/fauna of the moon.
The social commentary was mediocre and the engineer was the best character.
The book kept building up "the Change" but ended up being anticlimactic.
Well developed characters, though.
I enjoyed many of these classics, but In the Days of the Comet was a real slog. My library copy (Dover Publications) didn't include the introduction that other reviewers refer to; I wish it did.
I will review this book along with the book Blood Work by Holly Tucker
I have a vague sense of the plot of this story from a movie I must have seen years ago.
But that is not the fault of the original, so full 5 stars!Actually, I found the plot of the story to be the secondary element.
More interesting was the Time Traveller's evolving hypotheses on the world that greeted him in the year 802,701.
Wells created enough surprises and interesting but believable twists to make it feel like a truly new world, without getting carried away.
The Time Traveller remained the focus of the story, as he should.
G. Wells; I had been wondering why a “complete science fiction treasury” would not include When The Sleeper Wakes.
Wells is at his best with describing the effects of technology, good and bad; but he is also addicted to long windy passages of social commentary, his romantic scenes are rather stiff, and, as noted, he does not seem to know how to end several of the books well.I do like H.
G. Wells, and found this “complete science fiction treasury” to be great bedtime reading; but I do wish the editors had included When The Sleeper Wakes.
Always wanted to read the original Time Machine novel.More of a short story really in essence.
All told in retrospect.Disappointing, but considering it was written over 100 years ago, historically of interest.The second novel, The Island of Dr Moreau wasn't bad and this time I hadn't seen the film(s) (?)A mariners tale shall we say.
The man himself, Griffin, was a bad tempered old sod who seems to enjoy thumping everybody until a navvy hits him over the head with a spade.
Until then this heavyweight tome will take up residence in my bottom drawer until such time as Ben and Holly's little Kingdom is annihilated by German dive bombers.
The stories are very well written and incredibly interesting and entertaining, but as with all classics the wording and technology portrayed will seem a little dated to some readers.The Time Machine is a story about a scientist who invents a time machine to save the love of his life and comes to the realization that some things happen for a reason and some things cannot change or be undone no matter how hard you try.The Island of Doctor Moreau is an incredibly gripping story about genetic engineering The Invisible Man is of course about a man who becomes invisible and suffers a bit of insanityA very well put together collection and worth grabbing a copy for your book shelf, even if the cover looks a bit like something from Mystery Science Theater 3000.
Wry, comical, irreverent, the book skewers the narrowness of English village life and the failings and unforeseen consequences of the scientific empirical mindset in this tale of the invention of a new super food and its effect on the countryside surrounding Hickleybrow in Kent (Wells's birthplace).
Once let out, the food cannot be contained however, and is soon fed to one of its creator's children and a small number of other babies, including a princess.
This B&N edition is a fine addition to anyone's bookshelf, and the novels within are, for the most part, fun to read.
It is the story that has the least connection with Science Fiction, and is more a polemic on the society of the day (1906) and/or a socialist tract.
I had never read any before, although of course I was familiar with the stories of some of them, although most later treatments (particularly movies) changed many of the details.
In addition to the stories themselves, it was interesting to read the works that - along with Jules Verne 30 years earlier - formed the genesis of Science Fiction.
For me, I found his short story, "The Time Machine" to be the most intriguing and thought provoking of all his writings.
I greatly enjoyed "The War of the Worlds", and found "The Island of Dr. Moreau" to be almost prescient in its depiction of medical science gone mad, a la the Nazi Dr.Joseph Mengele.
Had NASA not landed astronauts on the moon, "First Men in the Moon" would have been more entertaining, but it still holds out possibilities, a la Ancient Alien theory.
In short, I would recommend any one of these stories.
I only wound up reading three of the stories in this collection, and got halfway through The War of the Worlds before ditching it out of boredom and disappointment.
That, too, passed, and I returned to staring at my house.
Oh, by the way, Martians invaded Britain.
I looked out the window in my study..." Not an exact quote, obviously, but suffice it to say that the bland domestic description to alien action ratio was WAY off.I'm going to include links to the three stories I did read in this collection, once I get done with reviewing them.
It was a short, interesting read that really made me think about science and ethics.
The War of the Worlds: Wells' book took aim at the elites of Britain and their idea of an immortal empire.
Wells sought to remind his readers that empires rise and fall frequently, often overnight.
From the time of the Babylonians to the swift, rise of Imperial Japanese, empires move upward frequently and fall just as hard.
This story reminds us of the short span of life and about the futility of mankind's effort to play lord over the earth.
A short, suspenseful read!
H.G. is a fantastic science fiction writer, and viewed as one of the founding fathers - and rightfully so.
Some of his work verges on prophetic in regard to advances in the future.
His writing may be considered a little dry in comparison to contemporary works of science fiction, but I personally don't think so - especially considering the time it was written - ground breaking.
For detailed descriptions and lengthy critiques, I'd suggest readers look him up elsewhere.
I'd like to mention though, if one has an interest in the actual history of science fiction as a genre itself, H.G. is a must read.
Praise for H.G.Wells!This has to be one of my favourite books of all time. With beautiful leather bound "old school" War of the worlds cover with silver tinted thin pages, this book is beautiful not only in content but in looks.The Seven Novels include:The Invisible Man.The Island Of Dr Moreau.War Of The Worlds.The Time Machine.The First Men In The Moon.In the Days Of The Comet.The Food Of The Gods.The Majority of these books are a MUST read. Days of the Comet and Food of the Gods are a little dull compared to the rest however still provide excellent philosophy.
Imagine my joy in inheriting this from my sister.
I first read H G Wells in Sunderland library after listening to the Space Opera War of the Worlds.
It started a life-long love of scifi ...
I think I was around nine years old and had recently got an adult library card.
I used to go to the library and get an Asimov and a Wells, then I went through the entire fiction section reading every book that looked like it was scifi ...
alphabetically, but always checking the W section in case there was a Wells or Wyndham I had missed.
It may have been the late hour I paused in the middle of The Time Machine, flipping back to the preface of this anthology, but the book quickly gained value to me after reading that introduction. In it H.G. Wells observes the selections, suggesting they be read out of their chronological order. I encountered his wit and charm in what felt a very honest and personable account of his writings and their place in time, carrying that prescience by commentary so reputed in his novels. I instantly wished I had met the man.[Originally posted to Amazon review, August 4, 2004.]

When I think science fiction, I think H.G. Wells. What a creative man. My dad and I were at the bookstore one day, and I came across this collection, my dad told me I would probably enjoy it. Man...Was he right. Each story is so different, interesting, and a masterpiece in their own right. If you read science fiction, you have to read this collection. This is a book you buy, and keep, reas it, and pass it down. Just awesome. So glad I still have my copy proudly on my bookshelf.
H.G. Wells is one of the greatest science fiction writers of all time. This collection; which includes The Time Machine, The Island of Dr. Moreau, The Invisible Man, The War of the Worlds, The First Men in the Moon, The Food of the Gods, and In the Days of the Comet; are masterpieces. My favorite stories are The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds, probably because these were some of the first science fiction that I had seen and then read.
This is a huge volume containing 7 science fiction novels. The famous ones are famous for good reason, although the science hasn't aged as well as the fiction. The last couple of novels, and In the Days of the Comet in particular, are not very well thought out and meander to pointless finishes.
So..none of them were scary at all. Though I can see how they would have freaked out people of that time. I really appreciated the observations on human kind included in each story. And the whole 'pick one impossibility and see where it goes' version of sci-fi.
So my understanding is that this edition of this collection is out of print and because of that most people are selling it for about $100. I just found it from someone on Ebay for $34. They made a huge mistake or were just very nice. I don't care which.
The Time Machine: 5 starsThe Island of Dr. Moreau: 5 starsThe Invisible Man: 3 starsThe First Men in the Moon: 4 starsThe Food of the Gods: 4 starsIn the Days of the Comet: 3 starsThe War of the Worlds: 4 stars
I haven't finished all of these yet, but I just adore H.G. Wells and the cover for this volume is phenomenal.
