https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2536134.Gone
From the beginning, my mind was full of questions about how this happened, how the kids would survive, what could prevent the same thing from happening again....So many questions.Sam is the kind of boy you want to have around when the world goes crazy.
Of course, she ends up in a worse situation that ties in with the kids in town, and in a big way, as this book culminates.
I suppose I should provide some kind of explanation as to why I didn't finish reading this book.It's not because the concept was stupid - actually the concept was quite interesting and would make for a fantastic philosophical discussion.It's not because it was poorly written - actually it was written quite well with a great plot and interesting world building and action packed scenes.It's not because the characters were horrible or annoying - Actually, Sam is really likable if not frustrating, Astrid is such a relief as a female protagonist and the secondary characters are realistic and well fleshed out.In the end I would actually recommend this book to people, especially fans of sci-fi and particularly middle-school children.
This was a very good book about adventure, mutants, superheroes and just the plain old story of surviving high school...
In a world run by children, power belongs to the bullies, the sadists, or the mutants.
Well, I've spent the last few weeks reading books that are instantly gripping, they throw you right into the middle of the story and build up their characters around it...
this book, however, takes time at the beginning to introduce and explore each character in a way that I feel would have been much more effective if it had been integrated throughout the novel.
And as I’m not planning on spending money on the next instalments of the series, I will probably never read them anyway, so why continue here?I really don’t know why Gone wasn’t able to intrigue me.
Killing and torturing people is still on a completely different level.That being said, I think one thing that I didn’t like was the constant action in this book.
I know this is how the book is supposed to be like and I totally knew what I was getting myself into and even looked forward to it.
Together, they find the possible reason for the disappearance of the people and they meet all interesting characters and go through a lot of twists and turns (just like the everyday Manila traffic) to get into the bottom of this phenomenon including its possible solution.The storytelling is straightforward and Grant's imagination is so fertile I thought I would write a letter to our President Noynoy and recommend him to solve the congestion of vehicles during rush and even not too rush hours.
If a YA author like Grant can think of all the interesting characters and situations in the book, maybe his creativity can be put to better use not only for readers but for the whole country or even the whole world.
(This is apparently the first in a series of six books.) I also predict that it will take off like the Harry Potter and the Twilight Series, with almost as many adults reading the series as kids.For one thing, this book is creative genius.
That very well may be the same for the cover art, too, but I do think it will hinder the book's allure for adult readers.
And you don't have to be a young adult to think so.
Taking place in a dystopia where all the adults have disappeared, à la Lord of the Flies mixed in with some kids mysteriously getting superpowers sounds really good on paper.
Sam is a surfer dude who everybody looks up to because he once stopped a school bus from crashing when the driver had a heart attack, Astrid is your token smart chick, and Quinn is so boring I often forgot why he was there.Admittedly, Gone is fairly good at addressing what would happen if all the adults (and older teenagers) were to disappear off the face of the earth.
Even though Michael Grant may be an asshole, I'm still impressed by his books. Can't wait to keep reading and finally find out how this series ends!
Gone is simply the best YA book I have read since Laurie Halse Anderson's Wintergirls, and stands right beside The Hunger Games and the Knife of Never Letting Go as some of the best dystopian sci-fi around...In Perdido Beach, life is normal (mostly) until a sudden disruption results in the disappearance of every adult and child over fifteen.
When tensions build among different factions in the town, the children must band together to survive or risk destruction themselves.One of the reviews for Gone describes the book as Lord of the Flies written by Stephen King.
I tried and tried to love this book, but I just couldn't connect with it.
The concept was a brilliant one.
It was the reason I decided to buy the book in the first place, but once I started reading it, I couldn't establish a connection with any of the characters.I just felt as if I was an outsider and not able to grasp any of the emotions of the characters.
I didn't feel as if I was part of the story.
I really wanted to grasp the story, but it just didn't happen.
It was just an okay read.
Poof gone!Sam has been in a horrific experience like this before, well maybe not exactly like this.
The genius Astrid, who Sam has secret feelings for, and the faithful and dependable, Edilio.Of course in any untamed civilization there is always a power struggle, those who have it and those who want to take it away.
It turns out that Sam isn’t the only one that has "powers." When the kids from the private school Coates Academy show up, Sam and Astrid realize there is something more going on.
I love when you feel like you really connect with characters, and this was one of those experiences.
This book is one of the most thrilling and addictive books I've ever read!
Don't be intimidated by the length, it reads very quickly, and you'll be wishing for more by the end.
The characters are all very young, so don't expect the most challenging dialogue, and don't expect closure at all from the ending.
The novel was also unexpectedly thought provoking.
You'll ask yourself many questions, such as "what side would I be on?" "what role would I play?", and the best question, "what superpower would I get?" I vastly recommend this novel to all, and I hope you'll read it.
In fact, there were only one or two charcters who struggled with whether or not they were on the side of good or evil.
Also, I really felt like I as reading James Patterson's "Maximum Ride" all over again, although I did enjoy this book more.
The writing in the book was good and I liked the fact that there were so many characters to read about.
I found the main characters, Sam, Astrid, and Caine, pretty average and I didn't like reading about Mary changing diapers at the day care at all.
They get a huge shiny sticker of happiness.Sam rocks for witty comebacks.Diana's sarcasm is brilliant.Astrid's a smartie, and...well, sometimes she leave everyone in the dust:"Let's keep moving," Sam said.
Yum. I like books that just gets in and say what needs to be said.
I'll only talk about a few, but trust me, the character development over the 6-books is phenomenal.Sam He's definitely my favourite.
Astrid is a genius and Little Pete is her 4-year-old autistic brother.
You'll keep turning the pages to see what's happening to the heroes -- Sam and Astrid.

Michael Grant phenomonaly captured so many different plot elements and combined them into a dystopic apocolypse that resembled Lord of the Flies, yet also added an element that gave characters unique abilities (like one of my favorite TV shows, Heroes).Every character in this book has dymanic, none of them fall flat at all.
Each recruits their own group of other teens and followers under the age of 15 (because when you turn 15, you dissapear).
It's somewhat like a parallel universe, just better.This book has everything in it, and I still remember most of it from reading it a few months ago.
It also has a lot of action/adventure due to the teens struggle to survive while fighting each other.
Dit boek hè, moet je even heel snel gaan lezen want het is zo'n gaaf boek en een geweldig begin van een superspannende en epische serie! Nog niet overtuigd? Lees dan mijn recensie:http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
Gone is like a mix of Lord of the Flies, Under the Dome, Animal Farm, Lost, Kid Nation, Heroes, X-Men and that Simpsons Movie... This book I think is popular and also has quite number of fans but I haven't read it immediately because the book was very thick and I just find that I'm too lazy to follow a series like this. However I changed my mind and finally decided to read the first book.At first my opinion about this book is, it is a very easy read. The sentences and the dialogues are kept simp
There are many times that I find it too simple but I think it made sense because the target of this book are young adults and I think even a nine year old can follow the words and sentences used in this one.Also what I like about this book is that, it is really scary.
I jst find her really interesting.What I don't like about this one is that it is you know something that is not that "original" because you can see that the idea of it was already seen from other books, TV series, movie etc.
In this new world, the FAYZ - Fallout Alley Youth Zone, the unimaginable happens - animals rapidly mutate, some kids acquire special X-men-like abilities, coyotes led by the mysterious Darkness try to overtake humans.
Undoubtedly, this sounds like a lot of craziness, and yet it all somehow works together and creates one fascinating and intriguing story.
However overall it's a great novel and I am looking forward to reading more books in this series to find out what happens next to the characters and to see at least some of the mysteries of the FAYZ solved.Update July 19, 2010.
I was excited to read this and expected writing along the lines of Scott Westerfeld, based on the plot and such.
But alas, the novel did not deliver for me and I put it down after 100 pages or so, when I found myself skimming pages and caring less and less.The problem, for me, was that the writing felt rather slow.
Also, the narration skipping around from person to person, introducing new characters in new situations, and I didn't really care about most of them because I didn't know who they were or how they connected to the plot, and the "powers" that some of the characters developed didn't sound that exciting the way they were described.
This is kind of embarrassing to admit, but I avoided this series for a while because I thought it was an offshoot of those Left Behind books.
You gotta admit that "Blah, blah, blah, a bunch of people disappear..." sounds a lot like those other books!*Alright, the story begins with a bunch of kids sitting in class when all of a sudden the teacher just goes...Poof.
Especially the part where they find a dead toddler in one of the houses.Unfortunately, it's more likely that I became fully engaged in the story once I found out that some of these kids were developing powers.Mutants!
Many long conversations where each sentence ends in "he said/she said" and a lot of telling but no showing.
You're telling me a bunch of 14 years olds who are about to get their learners' permits have no supervision and would rather walk 10 miles than attempt to drive a car?
just stupid.I listened to more than half of this book on audio to get through it faster because it's sooo long (again, unnecessary and due to poor writing) and I hated the narrator.
Sure, he did a different voice for every character and I know a lot of listeners love that, but the voices were awful.
I love these books." - Stephen KingWelp, I guess this is going to be another one that I just don't get the hype over.
I really wanted to like this, and it's not bad.
It doesn't seem like much of anything happened.
There's nothing wrong with the writing, but I sure must have missed all the "exciting, high-tension" sections S.K. was talking about.558 pages, seriously?
Well, okay, we get to read about the different groups of kids that form up - some are good and some are bad and mean.
Questo libro ragazzi è un must read! Originale in un mondo di ya che ormai ricicla sempre gli stessi temi, ben strutturato e con idee uniche! Non vedo l'ora di leggere il secondo volume della serie perchè non posso assolutamente restare con tutte le domande con cui Miachael Grant mi ha lasciato alla fine di questo libro. Leggetelo, leggetelo, leggetelo! Non ve ne pentirete assolutamente.
As the remaining citizens of Perdido Beach struggle to determine what's happened, they notice that animals have mutated and the teens themselves have developed strange and potentially deadly powers, growing stronger with each passing day.
I would have preferred, however, that their relationship progress at a slightly faster pace; this would have more readily held my attention toward the beginning of the book.I was initially somewhat confused when the book shifted from Sam's POV to that of a female character by the name of Lana.
While many questions were left unanswered at the conclusion of the novel, Grant incorporated a suspenseful cliffhanger that to compel readers to pick up the next book in the series.
He explored every angle of what it might be like if every adult with in a twenty mile radius disappeared, leaving behind over two hundred fifty desperate kids, fourteen and under.(It's interesting to think how I personally would react in such a situation.
I think I would probably cry for like three days and then hide in the daycare.)However, I wasn't hugely fond of some twists that occurred in the plot.(view spoiler)[The Darkness and the coyotes thing was so bizarre.
(hide spoiler)]But I really ended up loving these characters.
4.5 Stars!This book was fun, funny and very fast paced!I really like all of the weirdness in this book. I also liked a lot of the characters! I think what I loved the most was the well roundness of the characters. We have a super dude, a Mexican, we have a challenged little kid and we have the teens from an academy their parents sent them because they were trouble. I recommend this book a lot. Can't wait to get to the sequel!
Soon it's a fight for survival against some powerful bullies, and the clock is ticking down for Sam: he'll turn fifteen soon, but first he has to save the kids from the perfectly charming, arrogant and devious Caine and his sadistic friend Drake - opponents who pale in comparison with the Darkness hiding beneath the ground...It wasn't until I started writing this review that I discovered there are maps at the beginning of the book.
It certainly has that terrifying LotF scenario of young kids gone wild.Each chapter counts down the hours and minutes backwards from Sam's looming birthday, adding to the tension and the feeling of something inescapable and bad about to happen.
The rules of the world are changing, and Sam is running out of time before he turns fourteen and is bound to poof.The kids from Coates Academy come down to the town of Perdido Beach, and one of them, named Caine, basically takes over.
And while some of these rules are actually valid, others prevent people from gaining any power to oppose Caine.Sam, Quinn, Edilio, Astrid, and Little Pete find themselves thrown together for survival.
Sam knows that something is off about Caine, and he also has a power to shoot fire from his hands.
Gone actually made it onto my physical bookshelf, however, so I picked it up the other day and started reading.I think this is probably a really excellent series for anyone between the ages of 12-16.
I'm pretty sure they would collapse into tears just like any other kid and realise how helpless and young they actually are.
FORM A PLAN." It's hard for me to read sentences in which the protagonist Sam and his best friend Quinn refer to each other as "brah" even when they're in a serious argument.Again Sam resisted the surge of anger.
I wish I could have read it when I was younger because it does actually sound like a blast.
