https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867622.The_Ivory_Grin
It does, however, have all the ingredients of a good mystery, and is graced with Macdonald's strengths such as his vivid cameos (the old invalid black woman whose hobbies are listening to the radio and her neighbors' business; a middle-aged milliner relaxing with a glass of wine and her cat; a decent small town sheriff distrustful of big city detectives and full of reflexive racism), and his incomparable descriptions of shabby rooms and splendid showplaces.In addition, this book has some features of particular interest to Macdonald fans.
As a special bonus for accepting the questionable assignment he gets to witness and participate in the full set of noir tropes first-hand.
I cannot say anything without giving huge spoilers, but take my word for it: he is not usual run-of-the-mill noir gangster.
As much as I like classic noir I really could not care less about modern thrillers despite the fact that these two genres are fairly close related to each other, like cousins.
So to summarize: this is the second book of the series in the row which confirmed my opinion of Ross Macdonald as a classic of noir.
The good news is that Macdonald's racially tinged plot doesn't browbeat us with the politics, unlike, say, every episode of COLD CASE to ever feature an African-American.
Ultimately, you have to take Macdonald's good intentions in historical context: as drama, the plot of a black man wrongfully charged with a crime obviously committed by whites invites all the queasy risks of condescension, EVEN IF IN REAL LIFE IT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME (cf the chick who doused her own face with acid and claimed a black lady did it).
Still, Archer is a blast of a hero---hardboiled but not stylized, he seems as real as they come.
Lewis Archer is hired to track a nurse passing for white and discovers her body in a run down motel.Macdonald attacks the racism and police brutality of 1950's California with dark humor and dry wit.
So far I can't really put my finger on what it was.Lew Archer is a great protagonist for the genre; a mean, self serving PI with a penchant for hard boiled dialogue.Ross MacDonald's prose is filled with fantastic observations of both people and places.The plot is wonderfully convoluted, not too confusing but not too straight-forward either and the secondary characters (all except Archer to be fair) are well rounded, believable and pretty much 'individuals' as far as secondary characters in pulp noir fiction go.
The way MacDonald moves the pieces around the board throwing red herrings in to the mix is a joy to behold and the denouement involves a particularly gruesome description/reveal.But still it didn't grab me the way other books and other writers of the genre have in the past.
It didn't take me long to recall that I had read this book but heh, it's Ross Macdonald.
One of the writers that today's most popular authors say was an influence in their decision and desire to write mysteries/thrillers/detective books.
Lew Archer is the name of this P.I. who uses his head to solve complicated mysteries of "whodunit."I've copied this from Wiki, which read my mind except the naming of Lew. Now that mystery is solved, how Macdonald came up with Lew's name.
Even his regular readers seldom saw a Macdonald denouement coming.Was going to write something akin to what Wiki entered on Ross Macdonald's page, but why bother.
I can't say whether an African-American reader would find these sorts of descriptions that are occasionally dropped in this novel -observations by a white narrator of societal situations of minorities - offensive, but "Archer"/Macdonald seems to speak from a place of liberal sincerity.
But in the end, Lew Archer is the one decent man in what so often is a shabby profession.I guess my point is unlike Raymond Chandler's "Philip Marlowe" novels (which I love and find superior to the "Archer" series), intentionally racist terms and views are never expressed in the Macdonald novels I've read so far.
He had a flair for great dialogue, as well as for writing about dark issues from people's pasts, and a way with metaphors that rivaled Raymond Chandler.Besides, at one point in the story, Archer describes his client being "in a spiteful rage, less than half a woman now, a mean little mannish doll raving ventriloquially."Now "ventriloquially" is a real word (I looked it up in Webster's online dictionary), but how many writers would have the gumption to actually use it?Addendum: I'd like to thank the people at Vintage Crime/Black Lizard for reissuing this and several of Macdonald's other Lew Archer novels, which had previously been out of print.
Unlike the recent Thompson book The Grifters (set in the same time period and locations) which I found a bit too Dostoevsky-like, Ross MacDonald delivers well crafted, excellently plotted novels that leave one little to doubt as to the skill of this author.
The pacing of his style is superb, timed just right, delivering punch bowls of satisfaction to sip from.Lew Archer is a curious private eye, seeming to shun involvement with women though he is attracted to them which leaves tension in the minds of the reader.
Типичен, класически Чандлъров стил, живописен и образен. Но скучноват сюжет, който не ме грабна особено.
I had been waiting to get my hands on the great man's books for months (nearly a year) and the wait had been "excruciatingly beautiful" if I could describe it thus.Had read only 3 of his novels before and loved 'em so my appetite was fully whetted by the time I grabbed 4 of his rare Omnibus editions.
Damn, at this rate; I'll finish the 12 novels in a couple of weeks!
:-\But boy, what a coupla weeks its gonna be?!
That is why we are here, ain't we?Macdonald has moved into my all time fav.
(The five-stars here, of course, is relative to the genre..., not to Proust)MacDonald's mastery of his craft is evident on nearly every page here - both in the writing, and in the construction and characterization and believablity.
including a certain moral tenderness.In the Ivory Grin, RM also deals with the issue of race - circa 1952 -- and though he writes as a white man, and pretends nothing else, he has an eye for detail and nuance that rings largely true.
Macdonald was an excellent observer of human character and physionomy, linguistically inventive, and a patient constructor of plot.
I got so much deja vu reading this, because I read Strangers in Town first (a short story with a similar plot) - but long enough ago that I forgot many of the details. there are many characters and many stories. the story is quite grim and tragic, with so many characters who have lived their lives wrong and don't know how to live with the regret. the title refers to a set piece that's particularly disturbing...
Very good early Archer, with strong, nuanced characters, and a surprisingly even-handed view of race issues—it’s disturbing how relevant the concerns of the black characters are, 65 years later.
So, a mysterious, rich woman, just "Una" (later we learn it's Durano, or sometimes, Larkin) comes to Archer to ask him to find her maid, Lucy Champion.
During the looking around, Archer comes across another P.I., Max Heiss (aka Julian Desmond) who is also looking for Ms. Champion.
Well, naturally, there's lots of other stuff, such as a sketchy doctor, Sam Benning and his spouse, Bess, and a rich lady, Mrs. Charles Singleton who wants to find her missing son, for which there is a huge reward.
Bess, the sketchy doctor's wife, has a major off and on thing with the kid.
I should write up reviews within a few days of reading, rather than a month later.
(I got this bug after buying  It’s All One Case: The Illustrated Ross Macdonald Archives, a visual feast for fans) In the great  Books to Die For Irish mystery author John Connelly notes that once Macdonald became successful, that is when he wasn't writing solely for money, he managed to shed the shadow of Raymond Chandler.
Also evident in The Ivory Grin is Macdonald’s abiding interest in the psychology of families (He was writing pulp fiction to pay the bills while working on a “real” novel about this theme).
However, for the avid noir reader won't have any trouble seeing the ending coming from a ways out.For me, reading Macdonald's books is like chatting with an old friend.
Archer's heart goes out to her and he goes out of his way to protect her because of it.Great quotes:"American's never grew old: they died; and her eyes had guilty knowledge of it.""The back of my neck began to itch where the bitch goddess coincidence had bitten me before.""I don't know what to think.
That was probably to be expected since I'd just read Chandler and virtually anything is a step down from Chandler so I grabbed the author, the only one I think, who is in the same class as Hammett and Chandler, Ross Macdonald, and read it in less than 48 hrs.
I rate most of his work 4 1/2 to 5Two of Macdonald's novels were made into class A films starring Paul Newman as the lead.
BTW, Macdonald's nod to Hammett is his character's name.
For some reason, the name of Archer was changed to Harper in the Paul Newman movies.
Continuing to read the Lew Archer novels in order.
Ross Macdonald is a master of hardboiled detective fiction, perfecting what Hammett and Chandler started--but it took him a while to warm up.
After three promising but flawed offerings, he hits his stride in this fourth novel.Archer is hired to track down a thieving maid.
Soon, the maid turns up dead, and Archer is scrambling to find out what happened and make sure the wrong man doesn't go down for the murder.The revelations and reversals are well-timed, and everything hangs together neatly in the end--something that wasn't quite true of his earlier books.
In THE IVORY GRIN, Macdonald masters the perfectly-constructed noir plot, but his detective's still a bit of a cipher.
Lew Archer is probably the best of the old school PI detective series, topping Hammett's Sam Spade and Chandler's Philip Marlowe.
Not a popular opinion, but I think MacDonald takes their obvious influences and makes more interesting plots and characters, especially those involving familial betrayals and conspiracies.
Archer seems a bit less morose than Marlowe and Spade, despite the lowlifes he deals with on a daily basis, and he's one of those characters you want to see progress and evolve.

Ross MacDonald possessed a full mastery of setting, dialogue, plot and character; he may be nearly forgotten these days and you may only find his novels in shabby secondhand stores, but few other writers ever made a grouchy reader like this guy feel as immersed and convinced of the reality of a novel.
MacDonald created atmosphere that I can still taste and imagery that I can still see over 5 years after initially reading this book.
Go to the shabby secondhand store that you frequent and find one of MacDonald's books today.
This is as good as it gets. The Ivory Grin is not only a great mystery but one of the best noirs I've read. Lew Archer's on the trail of a runaway maid who knows where more than a few bodies are buried. Along the way Archer has to dodge murderous matrons, two femmes fatales and an insane church going doctor. The action is tight, the writing is sharp and the resolution has more clarity and logic than a million Raymond Chandler novels.
Ooooh, how grisly! The ending is quite good, which is where other Archer novels have lost me. Plus, there are, of course, pages and pages of wonderfully disgusting, pitiless people with racial tension and injustice sewn in. Worth the read for the appalling morgue honeymoon, a graphic murder, and the pathetic candor of the last few pages.
A labyrinth of a tale, where you can never quite get a handle on who's part of the solution or another piece of the puzzle. MacDonald characters have more facets to their personalities, never falling into the cliched characterizations found in lesser writers in the genre
One of the best hardboiled crime novels I've ever read. "Her cut throat gaped like the mouth of an unspeakable grief.” Wow.
Поколението след него има двама великана които разделят това наследство на две--Мики Спилейн взима тежкарството и го удвоява, а Рос Макдоналд взима нюансите и ги удвоява.В литературния съспенс световният майстор на нюансите е Греъм Грийн.
А в англоезичният детектив--майстора на нюанси е Рос Макдоналд.
Разбира се, за него това ще бъде шок.
Тези неща не са централни за фабулата, но допринасят за сериозна дълбочина от ъгъл от който именно този автор е баш майстор.Към времето в което Рос Макдоналд и Мики Спилейн изгряха, самият Чандлър вече беше пропит и озлобен вдовец който нескрито ги презираше двамата новодошли--единият за "прекомерния садизъм", другия за "импотентно писане".Но за непревзет поглед писането на г-н Макдоналд си е потентно и още как.По мотиви на книгите на Рос Маконалд са заснети два прекрасни филма с Пол Нюман в главната роля: Harper (1966) и The Drowning Pool (1975)
And yes, old-fashioned terms and concepts abound -- younger readers might not know what a person-to-person call is, nor recall when gas station attendants were the norm.
But that's really part of the charm of this series, which casts Southern California in a completely different light, when it was a seedy backwater trying to regain its footing after World War II, and there was no hint of the glory days to come.Oh, one other note: Macdonald is a propulsive writer, and it will be hard to put these relatively short novels down once momentum is established.
If you've read all your Hammett and Chandler then Ross MacDonald is the man for you.
Lew Archer is a private eye in the Sam Spade mode who takes no prisoners in solving a case involving the death of an African American nurse in post-war America.
With her boyfriend in the clink and an easy conviction the order of the day for the detective in charge, Archer will need all his wits, strength and bravery to find out who is really behind the murder of Lucy Champion.This book features your typical stock of gum-shoe based characters, so it doesn't score that highly on originality.
Book 54Ross Macdonald The Ivory Grin 1952I was going to quit this halfway through had I not, accidentally, already read somewhere about the climax being something about a descent into actual Hell.
I couldn't wait.
But. I've no idea what it was I was reading because the ending had nothing to do with hell, unless it was metaphorical, or symbolic or something like that.
The mystery is cool and the clues are difficult to gather made much more difficult by a story that is, even at 230 pages, spectacularly overwritten.
He's written a lot of books.
