https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527756.The_Man_Without_Qualities
Everything that Ulrich had called over time essayism and the sense of possibility, as opposed to the pedantic accuracy, the demands that you should have to invent history, that you should live ideas- rather than world-history, that you should seize which can never be quite realized, and perhaps to live at the end not like a human, but merely like a character from a book, omitted from all non-essential to ensure that the rest magically comes together, - all these, in their unusual worsening reality hostile versions that had adopted his thoughts, had this in common, that they wanted to act on reality with an unmistakable relentless passion.[translated by me]Ulrich's settings will change later on, after he's reunited with his long lost sister Agathe.Style and Meta-StyleMusil's view on the early 20th century is always precise, his diction stringent, literary, and often satirical/ironic.
Nonetheless, this is a masterful work, and well worth reading.However, The Man Without Qualities is not a polished or consistent book.
Even the Parallel Campaign, which is at the core of the novel, is abandoned for long intervals, and is rarely developed in any significant way.
All this gives the impression that a completed Man Without Qualities would have to be several times longer than the already dense, 1100 pages of this unfinished version.
This is a complex and enigmatic novel, which defies simple analysis.Musil was consumed by this book, which he worked on at some personal cost until his death.
Musil's scientific mind is able to present a humanistic view of the world of Ulrich and the rest of the characters that inhabit this novel.
Continuously inventive and invigorating for the reader, the writing is so precise and the argument Musil makes about Ulrich and his situation so intricate that it is intellectually and aesthetically involving even before it becomes emotionally so.On rereading Musil I have come to an appreciation of why he may have found it so difficult to complete the project, for his protagonist, Ulrich - the man without qualities - was so definitely a man who considered the unlimited number of possibilities before acting.
These lead to a moment where Musil brings Ulrich and the reader face to face to contemplate "the narrative mode of thought to which private life still clings,".
IL SENSO DELLA POSSIBILITÀ Non esistono stellette sufficienti per questo libro. Capolavoro. Grande tra i grandi.Egon Schiele.L'ho letto e ripreso in mano più volte, leggendo qui e là, come un libro da consultazione. Sentendomi Ulrich, sentendomi Agathe.Musil è uno dei miei autori preferiti.Mi chiedo se senza le dritte dell'Alberto da Voghera sarei riuscito a incontrare Musil così presto nel mio percorso di lettore (inconsapevole) e con così tanto entusiasmo da parte mia.Egon Schiele.
This is the greatest demonstration of human thought I have ever encountered.
It demonstrates that the novel can be the best method for deciphering and analysing the human condition and the nature of existence that we have, over and above philosophy, history, politics, psychology, sociology or any other ology you care to mention.
If you are the kind of person who feels an urge to take on the big beasts of the novel such as Moby Dick, Ulysses, War and Peace or Don Quixote, for god's sake read this.
“It’s all decadence! A bottomless pit of intelligence!” First and foremost, I’d like to make it clear that my rating is more a reflection of my personal enjoyment of this novel than of its literary merit. Musil had a brilliant mind and a startlingly innovative writing style; I worship his Confusions of Young Törless. Also, the philosophical, psychological, and political analyses contained in this book were nothing if not rigorous, intricate and formidably incisive. That said, although I knew go
Also, the philosophical, psychological, and political analyses contained in this book were nothing if not rigorous, intricate and formidably incisive.
1,774 pages of a book that tapered off excruciatingly slowly into a loose bundle of dry, esoteric philosophical discourses just wasn’t for me.
In fact, to be brutally honest, slogging through the latter portion of this book was one of the most interminably tedious reading experiences I’ve had in a long time.
I'm not one for superlatives, but this has to be the greatest novel I have ever read, hands down (even including the Brother's Karamazov - it is almost as if this book carried the former's concerns into the 20th century, evolving them in the process).
Given that I just finished it, time is needed for its effect to fully sink in; I will return with more developed thoughts, but this was a truly life changing experience.
The book has lost none of its relevance; at the beginning of the 21st century, we are all men without qualities..
This is a world masterpiece. Musil seems to me everything that Mann isn't: Totally engaged with humanity while at the same time a superb, highly nuanced commentator on his society, time and the human condition. I've also picked up the newer translation but haven't read it yet. If the big, soaring, grand, worldbeater novels, this may well be the best (well, Moby Dick?)
In questo mondo ho assistito alle innumerevoli vicende che sempre sembrano condurre da qualche parte e da alcuna parte alla fine portano, a partire dall’Azione Parallela, organizzazione creata per festeggiare il regno dell’imperatore Francesco Giuseppe i cui membri sono in continuo impegnati a trovare un’Idea (che non troveranno)da porre a base dell’Azione, passando attraverso amori, tradimenti, passioni, fino alle scene piene di grazia tra i due "fratelli siamesi" Ulrich e Agathe, ad altre scene stupende per forza espressiva come la visita del generale Stumm alla biblioteca nazionale e la visita di Clarisse al manicomio criminale.Nel mondo decadente e inconsistente creato da Musil non vi è un senso o un ordine, perché –dice il generale Stumm- “… prova a immaginarti soltanto un ordine completo, universale, un ordine di tutta l’umanità, in una parola un ordine civile perfetto; ebbene, io sostengo che questa è la morte di freddo, la rigidità cadaverica, un paesaggio lunare, una epidemia geometrica”.
An absolute classic. Sort of Dilbert but in pre-WWI Austria. This first volume is outstanding. The second one was nearly unreadable. The protagonist is tasked with organizing a massive party for the jubilee of the Austro-Hungarian emperor and the story becomes absurdist, ironic and hilarious as he confronts an apathetic administration and as everything indicates the impending doom of the regime. A must read!
how do I review the greatest work of art of all time? how do I review a book that rubbishes the superlatives I would use to praise it? just buy this and set off on the journey through the 1100 pages.......

translated by Shophie Wilkins and Burton Pike.I don't know how people found books to read before the internet and Goodreads.
Goodreads has been recommending me this book for a very long time.
The book covers many concepts, themes, and ideas.
Which I got because I've read many of their books.
I've only actually read Faust Part 1.The book is supposedly incomplete.
It's a novel of ideas so the ending isn't really that important.I'll definitely be reading this book many times again.
That one read really isn't sufficient enough.If The Man Without Qualities had a fight with In Search of Lost Time.
One of a few 'Six stars books' of modern literature (there are maybe three or five of them?). The ultimate work of western dualism. Armheim vs. Ulrich, Ulrich vs. Walter, Arnheim vs. Tuzzi, Diotima vs. Bonadea, General Stumm vs. Leinsdorf, Fischel vs. Hans Sepp, Kakania vs. Prussia. Reality vs. pseudoreality. Individual spirituality vs. regulated and intelligible morality.This is the peak, or plateau, of European thought, just like Mahler is the romantic cream of the western Music. If you go through this, you will understand why Franzen is only a laughing matter and skittish entertainment.
probably the best novel i've ever read. genius.
I know when I like a book or when others like a book, yet critics and intellectually sophisticated people often talk about books as if one can assess their value objectively, going beyond mere preference.
Yet, mysteriously, the criteria by which literacy value is to be assessed are never stated with sufficient precision so that they can actually be applied.
Even though saying exactly what literary value is would be of extraordinary importance to make the point the author wants to.
In the absence of any solid and justifiable philosophy underpinning assessments of literary value, I fear we have to take pronouncements on what's good and what's bad as a form of virtue signalling in certain circles.
This is a life changing work by a life changing author.
Musil inspires without trying to inspire, is wise without preaching.
In the mold of Aurelius, disguised as a novel, most of those hundreds of pages are quotable.
Reminds me of Dostoevsky very much, but their styles are very different.It is easy to see why his work was quickly forgotten after his death.
A world races madly towards consumerism and self gratification, in the name of all sorts of ideologies, will not understand and genuinely appreciate Musil.On reading, Musil has this to say:"Hardly anyone still reads nowadays.
This book is so inspiring, that I could rarely read more then a few pages at time. It gives you so much to think about. It is though very dense and therefore really is not an easy read. I find this book life changing.
And now - Robert Musil and his stupefyingly dense book “The Man Without Qualities”, so-called novel of ideas.
“The Man Without Qualities” is overflown with duels between philosophy-action, love-pragmatism, sublimation-lust, evil-good, naivety-cynicism.
This book is a well oiled eel, impossible to catch with your bare hands, you’ll need some help.
You’ll need to sweat, to think hard, to lose the train of thought, to come back few pages.
I've read something which is as big as one's life can get.Musil was writting this novel for his last 20 years and, just like genius is supposed to do, died in poverty, completely forgotten.
Best book I've ever read. Will probably come back to it again and again over the years. The way Ulrich conceives the world depicts the complexity of life and the tremendous effort required to dive into the depths of the human psyche. Musil lands a death blow on the deterministic way of looking at things.
From the first page one knows one is in the presence of a master story-teller, who will keep one keenly wondering what will happen next, and how he will next digress.It is a book to savour, and I miss it keenly all the time that I'm not reading it. Musil reminds me of Proust in his range, whimsy and delight in life, and in the elegance of his style.It is also topical, as it depicts Austrian society (specifically Viennese society in the last days of the Habsburg Empire) on the eve of the First World War.
One of my favorite novels. Musil's magnum opus, the epitome of 20th-century literature, which shows to the limit what a novel can do.
It’s about the only thing I can offer by way of a review:Pg. 188 (maybe my favourite sentence) “Arnheim had written that a man who inspects his suit is incapable of fearless conduct, because the mirror, originally created to give pleasure-as Arnheim explained it- had become an instrument of anxiety, like the clock, which is a substitute for the fact that our activities no longer follow a logical sequence”What I love about this is how it makes you seriously reevaluate two everyday objects and consider the influence they have upon you.
When I came across this book in 1995, I had become very skeptical of the possibility of fiction expressing my worldview.
Musil did.
Musil manages to write in a way that makes the tedium of that world interesting.
He manages to avoid teleology utterly.
Musil completed the first book of the novel, which has an incredibly powerful ending.
The second book opens with a profound shift in tone, and then drifts into no definite ending.
Musil was harried into exile by the Nazis, and died before finishing the book, but in a way that makes the perfect ending, as the narrative explodes into fragments.
One of the forgotten classics of the 20th century and very probably the single best book about the lost world of late-imperial Vienna, about a world where nostalgia is as much about the future as the past, where all the new art and philosophy of the years just before 1914 are gently but relentlessly undermining civilized and genteel certainties. Finely written, delightfully ironic, slowly disturbing. This is very much the book you want to take with you to Vienna. Recommended absolutely.
Blows your mind. Read it over a decade ago and still recovering. In a good way.
This is an amazing window into the intellectual life of a world gone by. Brilliant, brilliant book that took weeks for me to read and will take years to digest.
I read the Picador volumes - I was in Japan at the time and I asked my late mother to send them - and I was so enraptured by the prose (in translation of course) and the content - there is so much going on, it is not just about the story - Musil was a philosopher. This work is in the league of the greatest 20th century novels, it is not a question of having to read it, it is just a question of when will you read it - and reread it.
It made my heart heavy, longing for the company of all those books running at large out there – piling up on my reader, staring at me seductively from my shelves, calling me from bookstore windows.Yet, as much as I craved freedom, I found comfort being boxed in between hundreds and hundreds of pages.
It taught me that perseverance pays off in the end and that confinement doesn’t necessarily mean lack of freedom.
The Man Without Qualities was a hard book for me to digest.
There was genius lurking in every page, in every sentence almost.
Ima preko hiljadu i po strana, ali se osećam kao da sam pročitao deset puta toliko.
Stvarno ima mnogo filozofiranja (mnogi bi rekli i previše) ali više otvara pitanja nego što daje odgovore na njih.
U knjizi ne dominira nijedna tema a neke od njih su čula i emocijie, moral i krivica, ljudski duh i duh vremena, religija i nauka, ljubav, rat i mir i još mnoge druge.Delo sam otkrio preko Goodreadsa, gde mi je preporučen jer sam čitao roman Čarobni breg Tomasa Mana kome je vrlo sličan po stilu i koga čak i nadmašuje.
