https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/951285.The_Players_of_Null_A
Книгата развива голяма част от идеите на автора от предишни негови произведения, а също така се усеща влиянието и в много от по-късните му творби.Джилбърт Госейн продължава да разплита мистерията около миналото си, докато се опитва да предотврати космически конфликт, засягащ цялата слънчева система с унищожение.
Госейн трябва да овладее силите на разширения си мозък, за да спаси Венера и Не-Аристотеловата ѝ философия от агресорите и галактическите ѝ партньори.За разлика от предходната книга "Играчите" има много по-стегнат и последователен сюжет, въпреки че редица въпроси от "Светът на Не-А" остават без отговор.
41 snall88 that that180 glaxy, possesses (processes)I'll point out one hypocrisy: there's texts about how one should not identify things, ie, speaking out against tribalism. Meanwhile Gosseyn would never have a sexual relationship with a non null-A
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5Vogt's Null series just cannot get all the positive components in place at the same time.
If the purpose of the book was to explain or clarify an unusual system of thought, The World of Null-A was a complete failure.
Vogt attempted to clarify this in the current novel, but it remains a failure.
But Vogt kept it a pulp fiction account, and our hero marches through the book, always with a plan, ever with the right answer, assuming and piecing together every puzzle from the slimmest evidence (well he was Null-A!
This takes the form of the hero, Gilbert Gosseyn, being able to teleport short distances if he's thoroughly memorized the location he wants to teleport to (and subject to the limitation of time, such that his memory doesn't match the location to 20-digits of precision).His powers come from training, and the World of Null-A (the first book) must be about Venus, where all the people who have learned to apply General Semantics live.
In this book, Venus is under peril by a galactic emperor who has started to a war to conquer the half of the galaxy he doesn't already control.His secret weapon is people who (innately, not through training) have similar skills as the Null-Aers, except that they can see through time.
Gosseyn spends most of the book in a tricky stalemate with his adversary, the mysterious Follower, and it is an uncharacteristically sluggish story where the interesting events--millions of spaceships destroying hundreds or thousands of planets--seem to take place offstage.
Gosseyn spends the book as the pawn in a game whose rules he doesn't understand, tossed around by players who hide their identities.
It isn't the game-changing news that it wants to be.You can see van Vogt's philosophical influences laced throughout the story.
-¿Algunos tics de la New Wave antes de la New Wave u otra clase de trastorno con base humorística?.- Género. Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. Gilbert Gosseyn trata de oponerse al dictador galáctico que busca añadir la Tierra a sus dominios mientras intenta conocer más sobre sus propios orígenes y los de sus capacidades especiales. Publicado previamente por entregas a finales de los años cuarenta. Segundo libro de la serie No-A, que puede leerse de forma independiente.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
I didn't like it as much as the first book which I had rated 3 stars. I almost gave it up a couple of times. The general semantics stuff was way to intrusive and didn't seem to carry over into the protagonist's actions that much. The story was disjointed and I couldn't really identify with any of the characters. I'm probably not going to read the 3rd novel.
I like van Vogt a lot, I really enjoyed the first book...yet I just had to force myself to pick this up.
The first book was interesting but I didn't feel like I related to the characters and the plot was jumpy and confusing.
This book had a more easily comprehensible story line and I liked the characters a little more.
From the body jumping to his extra brain, the story felt more evenly paced and easier to follow.
I really enjoyed the way this book felt like a mystery.
(view spoiler)[Gosseyn just mentally breaks the Follower.
These books have a lot of issues, but in the end I find them very enjoyable. A.E. van Vogt has a very strange, almost arrogant style, but aside from that, and understanding that these books are a product of the times and an interesting look at early scifi, its forgivable. I really wish Goodreads had half stars, and I went back and forth on the rating.
More readable than the first book. Some interesting ideas on the the burgeoning space opera style that were clearly picked up by later authors and pushed forward. Lightweight but entertaining.
Not quite the classic I once thought it was.
Gilbert Gosseyn, ancora all’uscuro circa il suo passato e la sua vera identità si ritrova in una trappola ordita da un misterioso personaggio ombra chiamato il Seguace. Tenta di fuggire, ma proprio mentre sta per compiere un salto grazie al suo cervello extra verso una destinazione che aveva precedentemente memorizzato, si ritrova intrappolato dentro il corpo del principe Ashargin, senza sapere come ci è arrivato, come comandarlo e come tornare al suo vero corpo. Conscio che probabilmente è sta
Tenta di fuggire, ma proprio mentre sta per compiere un salto grazie al suo cervello extra verso una destinazione che aveva precedentemente memorizzato, si ritrova intrappolato dentro il corpo del principe Ashargin, senza sapere come ci è arrivato, come comandarlo e come tornare al suo vero corpo.
Conscio che probabilmente è stato indirizzato da una forza esterna verso questo giovane principe, decide grazie alla filosofia Non-A di non ribellarsi.
Scopre presto che Ashargin è alle dipendenze di Enro, il terribile conquistatore intergalattico ancora intenzionato a soggiogare il Sistema solare e che la sua missione in questo corpo è quella di uccidere proprio il despota.
While if he gets killed, Gosseyn will revive in a new body, he doesn’t know where that body is stored–it could be far from the places he needs to be.Eldred Crang, the Null-A detective, is also busy, but mostly behind the scenes with his alleged wife (who turns out to be Enro’s sister, and co-ruler of the planet…but with no power over the extrastellar empire.)There are several competent, strong-minded women in the story, but for reasons, none of them are fully trained in Null-A, so they play subordinate roles.
I have enjoyed others by van Vogt but not this one.
He also seems to have abilities that are totally unbelievable.My experience wasn't helped by the author's introduction where he proclaimed his previous book to be the most successful SF book ever and then rambled on about General Semantics for a bit.
This, coupled with the weird, italicised 'Null Abstracts' before each chapter, give the impression that this work is nothing more that propaganda for the discipline of General Semantics.Oh, and since when has 1100 lightyears been considered 'nearby'?
I feel van Vogt has a hard time grasping the scale of astronomical units.

This book fits into the category of a novel of ideas.
Each chapter begins with a section of Null-A abstracts.
They outline the philosophy behind Null-a thinking.
Unfortunately, the thinking itself dominates the book and we're treated to many passages within the protagonist's head as he uses this philosophy to puzzle out what is going on.
It took a lot for me to finish the book, but I finally did.
I remember liking Van Vogt when I was a kid, but , for me, these books do not stand the test of time.
This book came out in 1948.
Better story line than World of Null-A, more accessible, actually some humor. Better explanation of Null-A principles as it pertains to the story. World of Null-A was lacking in that aspect. I found that quickly reading about general semantics was a help in the grounding, which i did after reading World of Null-A. But this novel addressed it head on. Some goof ground breaking science projection in this 1948 Novel. There was actually some humor in this one. Overall this is a better book than its predecessor.
Continues the action of "World of Null-A" in a fairly pedestrian fashion. It's a human galaxy now at war in a way much like actual wars on Earth. The galaxy might be saved by some people trained to think a certain way, just like a movement on Earth that Vogt espoused. This book isn't a bad example of its kind, it's just very dated. What was revolutionary then is common now. Read it for historical interest if desired, but only after reading Vogt's much better Slan and Voyage of the Space Beagle.
One thing I appreciated about this sequel that the original book didn't have is that each chapter began with a null-A tenet, so that I started to get an idea of what they were talking about when they reference non-Aristotlian philosophy. I kind of had to piece it together bit by bit in the first book, which maybe was a plan. I was apparently invested enough in the characters and story to push through this second book, but only just. Still, I can see how this series influenced later science fiction authors.
Interesting. Fast paced, surprises, ties up satisfactorily in the end. Reminded me of a small scale Dune with various schools of training and people of special ability fighting over control of a galactic empire. Plotting, intrigue, philosophy, psycology, religion but Dune took it to a larger scale with a more worked out background and more characters and groups involved.Still, a good experience. Golden age SF with rational and superior hero triumphing in the end.
I really enjoyed this book when I first read it over forty years ago so I was a little disappointed when I read it again. Sadly the author is not much of a writer and none of the characters come across as real people. Having said that, Gilbert Gosseyn is a memorable character and some of the concepts are fascinating. I was considering re-reading some of the author's other books but now don't think I'll bother.
For me it is a classic. Yes a bit sluggish and maybe somewhat inconsistent with the previous volume. The main character is confused most of the time and the ideas about consciousness, self awareness and the way the mind works are are not that deeply explored, but they are there. I think that this perpetual confusion of the main character is what draws me to this series. It revolves around similar frame as Philip K. Dick's works.
I enjoyed reading this.It includes epigraphs at the beginning of each chapter which express some elaboration of the Null-A concepts (similar to the Dune books). Those were also interesting.Still, at times, the book was mechanical and step-by-step. Emotional engagement and realistic relationships was not a strong point.
The fascinating concepts found in this book led me to another, factual book: Drive Yourself Sane : Using the Uncommon Sense of General Semantics, Revised Second Edition
Read this when I was in the Navy back in 1973. I know I read it because there is a little note on the inside cover saying I did. That said, I could devour 2 to 3 books an evening back then. It must not have made much of an impact, because I remember virtually none of it, some 40 years later.
This is the second half to the Null-A series by A. E. Van Vogt. If you read "The World of Null-A" then you HAVE to read this too. It is a great Sci-Fi trip, with Gosseyn's brain getting more powerful every day, and his extra bodies wreaking havoc on the Cosmic Chess Player. Good stuff.
The Null-A books had big effect on more when I first read them - bit dated now
secuela directa de "el mundo de los no-a". Es bueno si has leido el primer libro..
http://gnomeship.blogspot.com/2018/09...
10/10
