https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1472878.Firefly_Lane
This book was such a disappointment. The characters were completely one dimensional and not at all interesting. The storyline was filled with cliches from every bad Lifetime movie. About three quarters of the way through, I somehow knew how it would end (because it was the one cliche that hadn't been hit yet). The book itself is primarily dialouge and not good one at that. Avoid.
Oh.My.God. This book deserves more than five stars, in fact, it deserves every single star in the sky. This book was phenomenal. It tugged at my heart strings in the best of ways. I laughed and I cried.. Oh, how I cried. (view spoiler)[ You will need a box of tissues, handy! (hide spoiler)]This book is about friendship. Although, in my opinion, the word “friendship” doesn’t seem like a big enough word to encapsulate their relationship. They were simply: TullyandKate. Best friends forever. This b
(hide spoiler)]This book is about friendship.
The reader was able to see both Tully and Kate come of age.
Kate had everything Tully wanted: a family.
And Tully, had everything Kate wanted: she was drop dead gorgeous and popular.
They made each other whole In my opinion, what makes a book great is character development.
When I was in high school, I could easily see Kate and Tully walking arm-in-arm down the hallway.
I’m going to go out on a limb and say that this is one of the best books I’ve ever read.
Two girls stay "best friends" through four decades and widely divergent paths.
Only thing is, emotionally, they stay girls.
They consider themselves "best friends" when in reality, they are just enablers to the other one's personality weaknesses.And yet ~ I read the whole damn thing because Kristin Hannah, despite her storyline and emotionally stupid characters, is a good writer!
Honestly, if you want something brainless, this is a good beach read (ha, no pun intended), but I wouldn't recommend it if you're feeling even a smidge intellectually and emotionally smarter than the rest of the world.
This was the first Kristen Hannah book I read and it's about two girls who become friends in middle school in the 70's and it follows them through their lives.
I really enjoyed the writing, I think Hannah is really good at telling stories because I kept wanting to read on.
The characters were all complex and made the book feel real.
The ending was not that great though and I can agree that some of the plot was derivative but I don't think there's anything wrong with using things in your book that have been done if you do them well, which I think Hannah does.
Read years ago when the book was released!Read Stephanie's review...it's beautiful!!!I was deeply moved - surprised I liked it so much ---mailed it to my sister. She loved it just as much.I immediately read one more book, by Kristen Hannah...but when it didn't 'wow' me..I didn't continuing reading more of Hannah's books - but FIREFLY...has a very authentic feeling to it - not pushed - not overly schmaltzy.Sincerely touching!Read Stephanie's great review!!!
4.75/5I think I'm going to have to limit myself to 2 Kristin Hannah books a year because her books EMOTIONALLY WRECK ME.This is the 3rd book I've read by her and the 3rd book to make me sob.
It began the year I was born and ended in present day and followed the lives of two best friends named Tully and Kate.
I loved reliving the 70's and 80's and 90's with them, all of the pop culture references made this a fun journey.
The book is much more than just pop culture though as it follows two young girls who grow into wonderful women with very different personalities.
I could identify with so much in this book and for that I truly loved it.
It alternates points of view between Kate who, when the novel opens, is 14 years old and closely watched by her mother.
Tully is rebellious and ambitious, and Kate longs to be cool like her.
Kate is stunned when Tully becomes her best friend, and their friendship lasts 30 years.They are flawed people with likeable attributes, like everyone I’ve met on planet earth.
Also, without giving anything away, I learned about something I had not heard about (and now get to be scared about something new).It’s an important book about what friendship means—like any relationship, it has its ups and downs.
Firefly Lane is about the 30 year friendship of Kate Mularkey Ryan and Tully Hart.
Being the novel that it is, Tully shatters that glass ceiling forgoing family life for stardom while Kate marries Johnny her former boss and settles into not so blissful life as an at-home mom.
What I liked about this book was the musical references, the strength of love between Kate and Johnny, and the layers to Tully's character.
After reading this, I realize why I do not read much chick lit: my life like Kate's is that of a busy at-home mom and I don't have the time to get too emotionally involved in the books that I read.
Hacía muchísimos meses que no leía una novela que me llegase así y me ha dejado tan tocada que no sé ni qué decir.
Tiene 600 páginas y yo me he pasado unas 500 llorando y con el corazón encogido.
No me gusta nada desvelar detalles (siempre creo que con la sinopsis es más que suficiente y, en ocasiones, incluso demasiado), así que solo diré que "El baile de las luciérnagas" es la historia de dos amigas, Kate y Tully, durante más de tres décadas; a través de ambas conocemos el amor, los sueños, las decepciones, las dudas, la familia, la música, el dolor, la risa..., ¡la vida!
I love books that tell a story through multiple decades.
As young girls they planned to be anchorwoman together doing news broadcasts, but life doesn't always turn out the way you think it will, does it?I finished this book with a face full of tears, and to me that shows that Hannah really knows how to touch her readers.
The best part about this book is how it shows that sometimes you DO get what you want out of life, and you can still be unhappy or feel as if you are missing something.
Time to write the review of a book that I didn't expect to even like that much, but ended up loving.Firefly Lane is the first book that I've read by Kristin Hannah.
But Kate lived out her dream as a wife and mother while Tully became a superstar.I cried through the last one hundred pages Partly because it hit so close to home.
Reading about Kate dying of breast cancer was so hard for me and perhaps you can now see why it is so hard for me write this review and why I kept putting it off (hide spoiler)]I ended up giving Firefly Lane 5 stars.
I had a feeling I wouldn’t like it very much; even though she’s a friend we have some very different taste in books.
The book wasn’t offensive, but it was nothing special.The blurb says there is a betrayal in the story.
I wouldn’t accept in a million years that one of the women does what she does to her best friend in the whole wide world.
It’s like she had a checklist and had to mention a certain number of phrases, events, clothing styles, etc, from different time periods.
Yes, we understand that time is passing.
The conversation went pretty much like this:Me: /trying not to sound like I'm cryingHim: "Are you ok?"Me: "Yes, I'm fine."Him: "Are you sure?"Me: "Yes, it's just sad."5 minutes later...Him: "Are you sure you're ok?"Me: "Yes!
I'm just a big sap."5 minutes later...Him: "Are you going to be all right?"Me: "I'll be fine.
When you die I'll be dancing on your grave." (Don't feel bad; we joke with each other like that all the time.)Eventually, I went into the bathroom so he'd stop asking me.At any rate, a lot about this book was extremely cliched, and some of it was rather annoying (i.e. the constant in-your-face cultural references), but I liked it anyway.
It is the story of Kate and Tully who meet as teenagers and then remain friends for 30 years.
I also felt like I was listening to the same story again when Kate's daughter was a teenager.
Also, I would have killed that girl.There were a few things in this book that did not work for me.
In the beginning of the story Mrs. M (Kate's mom) tells the girls they can have it both.
Also, Kate is always talking about all the money her best friend has but then her husband was making a lot of money as well.
I felt like this book wasn't really about anything.
I kept waiting for a plot but three-fourths of the way through I realized there wasn't one.
I predicted that the least-hated girl would die right around the time I realized there was no plot.
I hated both main characters for dramatically different reasons.
I think Hannah was trying to paint the picture of the life choices and paths of two different women.
However the portrayals of both were so extreme I think most women live somewhere in the middle.
This book was hard for me.
I lost my sister to breast cancer 6 years ago.
She was only 38 years old.
Much like the girls in the story, she was my best friend forever.
It was so hard losing the one person who knows everything about you.
The one person who was always on your side.
This book brought both laughter and tears but many sweet memories.
Thanks Ms. Hannah.(sorry to whoever read this review the first time, it was written at 12:30 in the morning after I had just cried my eyes out.
After reading it over I realized all the mistakes.
From 70's teens to 80's young women these two girls have more than a life time worth of memories both good and bad.
Trying to meet her parents high expectations keeps Katie from expressing what she truely feels and the knowledge of disappointment should she choose her own path keeps her from making the choices she would prefer.These two young girls start out by meeting at the bus stop in 70's.
The new millineum comes in like a lamb and as each year passes, Katie and Tully both wonder if they've really made the right lifetime choices.
The 400-plus-paged novel relies on the characters' relationships to sustain the plot and reader interest, but those relationships, like the characters, are clichéd and two-dimesional and somewhat hard to believe.
Also hard to believe are the personal stories of the characters — such as Tallulah Hart, who rises to success as a TV journalist, covering everything from individuals' crises to international affairs...
The story has redeemable qualities, scattered moments in the plot that touch the reader and a few laughs here and there, but the writing is not developed enough to make the novel anything more than mediocre.Note: I received this book through the LibraryThing Early Reviewers program.
El baile de las luciérnagas es una historia que me ha dejado con un nudo en la garganta. Mi primera historia de Kristin Hannah, aunque seguro que no será la última. Una historia contada de una manera excepcional que nos habla de temas tan importantes como la amistad, el amor, la familia, el matrimonio, la maternidad o el paso de los años. Una historia que transcurre durante treinta años de la vida de Tully y Kate. Dos chicas. Dos vidas que se cruzan un día en lugar llamado Firefly Lane. Y una novela que siempre recordaré. Reseña completa en http://www.lanarradora.com/2017/03/re...
I went into this book thinking it was a book of friends.
How strong personalities can affect a friendship in more ways than one.
But, I didn't for one second think that I was reading a book about the ending of a friendship and a life.
Or the path of eternal friendship and life.
To be honest, had I known what it was truly about I don't think I would have read it.
I was jealous right along with Katie when she would see Johnny and Tully together.
And I suffered the loss of a friend and mom as Kate battled her cancer and died.
Spanning more than three decades, Firefly Lane is the poignant, powerful story of two women and the friendship that becomes the mainstay of their lives.***********SPOILER ALERT***********From the beginning, Tully is desperate to prove her worth to the world.
They think they’ve survived it all until a single act of betrayal tears them apart…and puts their courage and friendship to the ultimate test.Firefly Lane is more than a coming-of-age novel, it’s the story of a generation of women who were both blessed and cursed by choices.
Firefly Lane is a story you’ll never forget…one you’ll want to pass on to your best friend.
Nothing I read about Firefly Lane could have prepared me for the moving story of Tully and Kate.
Sure, I've read other books that were emotionally charged and brought me to tears.
Several of them were also written by Kristin Hannah.
She's a genius at writing human stories that make it impossible not to feel the emotions right along with her characters.
This one though...this is an immeasurably touching depiction of family love & strife, career choices, and undying friendship.
I haven't read a more profound fictional portrayal of those real life issues before.
I'll be thinking about this book and these characters for some time.
I ovoj knjizi od Kristi Hannah dajem pet iako se često pitam zašto mi treba da čitam njene knjige.
Još jedna u nizu divno napisanih priča, sad mogu reći da sam pročitala sve koje su prevedene kod nas i nijedna nije bila loša, ali svaki put sam u nekom grču čekajući kraj i znam da nisam jedina koja se tako osjeća.U isto vrijeme sam i ljuta i tužna...
Zaista preporučujem ali nije bilo jednostavno završiti, čekala sam rasplet a u isto vrijeme molila u sebi da bude onakav kakvog ga ja priželjkujem.
I očito je da nije bilo tako.
Friendships were like marriages in that way.
Although I enjoyed the middle of the book more, I did not like Tully - according to me she is not best friend material, everything is her way or the highway.I am a sucker for a book that makes me cry like a baby, and the ending did just that, so because of this Firefly lane went from a 2 star to a 3 star book.
I am still undecided about reading Fly away which is the follow up - I may just read it to see if Tully has finally changed her ways.
Although I feel that the plot is somewhat formulaic (and there were parts that reminded me of the movie Beaches), the story is well-written and entertaining. I found I had trouble putting the book down, and when I wasn't reading it, I found myself thinking about the story. In one sense, I feel that the plot is a little bit predictable, but I didn't find myself minding it because the story itself and the way it's written is so engaging. It just makes you want to continue reading. A good read.
I read this dreadful book so that you don't have to.
After all, I read and enjoy chick lit.
I disliked this book so much that it made me angry with Goodreads, because as I was reading this novel, Goodreads gave me a recommendation for some other novel by Kristin Hannah.And I felt bad for disliking this book, because the author notes in a postscript how this novel was such a personal journey for her, how it's the "most personal of [her:] novels," and how her now-deceased mother inspired her to write it.
This was a lovely heartfelt story of two girls who meet in sad circumstances and find the most unlikely of friend.
I thought the pace of this book was good, quite often with stories that transcend several decades the author rushes her work, however I felt that wasn't the case here.
From the seventies until present day, the author described each decade with a good dose of realism (not forgetting those infamous eighties shoulder pads!) At times the story was so emotional it was almost overwhelming.
I will continue to work my way through Hannah's novels, just hoping they all continue to be as moving as this one.
This book was recommended to me and I took one look at the size and thought "there are like 15 books on my shelf right now that I want to read" but against my better judgement, read it and LOVED IT! By far, the best friendship book I have ever read. Each of my closest girl friends are getting a copy for Christmas. THIS IS A MUST READ!
This was a great time period story, that took me back with all of the references to cloths, songs and sayings. An unlikely friendship is created when two girls are thrown together through geography and timing. Throughout their lives it becomes clear that one is a taker and one is a giver, yet somehow this becomes a complete recipe for a lifetime bond that is quite complicated but enduring. This story truly shows how tragedies and successes shape and turn all of our lives. A 3.5 listen that was taken to a 4 by Susan Ericksen's great narration.
