https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29967411-mystery-in-the-channel
Technology has changed, the figures have changed, but almost everything else would be exactly the same today.I appreciated that many of those working on the investigation had genuine concern for the families of the dead men and for the many people affected by the collapse of Moxons.There are many days when I would rather read a mystery with more complex characters, with a plot that held more surprises, and with a story that was a little more profound.But on the day that I read this book it had exactly the right amount of mystery and real human interest to engage and to entertain.
Apparently Crofts was an engineer, and put that background to work in his fiction.The problem with characterization persisted in this book and was amplified by the fact that every single character of note, as I stated above, was a middle-aged white guy of moderate wealth and education.
There were several occasions where a name came up that I didn’t immediately recognize, but it was clear that this character had been introduced before, so I had to flip backwards in the book to try to identify exactly who it was.I enjoyed it enough that I will continue to explore Inspector French, but I wish that Crofts would let him off the chain a bit.
Lastly, he’s not a deceptively timid old lady like Christie’s Miss Jane Marple or Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Maud Silver.What Inspector French is, is a nondescript but earnest and persistent English policeman from the Golden Age of detective fiction and the hero of a series of cozies penned by the Anglo-Irish author Freeman Wills Crofts.
While I chafe at the realization that Patricia Wentworth, John Bude, and Josephine Tey don’t get the attention they’re due, I fully understand why Freeman Wills Crofts, nearly 60 years after his death in 1957, is all but forgotten.
I didn't work out who the murderer was but I really enjoyed following the detail of French's investigation and the way all the information was pieced together.This book has many aspects which are relevant to the modern world even though it was written in the early nineteen thirties - big financial institutions going bust and ordinary people losing their life savings and people in positions of trust absconding with money which doesn't belong to them.
I thought the details of timetables and the sea faring aspects were reasonably easy to follow even if you don't have much knowledge of the sea and boats.
This is a vintage murder mystery, written in 1931.
I had never heard of Freeman Wills Croft until he was mentioned in Jacob's Room is Full of Books: A Year of Reading but he wrote 33 novels between 1920 and 1951, the most famous of which included Scotland Yard detective Inspector French.
Murder in the Channel begins with the discovery of a yacht drifting in the English Channel.
Inspector French is charged with solving the case.
It was something of a comfort read, but the way that the mystery comes together is also very pleasing.
A good procedural mystery with a clever resolution in a similar vein to The Sea Mystery. Full review at classicmystery.wordpress.com
In a surfeit of frying pan to fire personal jeopardy thrillers, these books dedicated to logic and linear reasoning are like as refreshing as a long, tall drink of water.Mystery in the Channel is just such a classic.
Inspector French is assigned to the case, and he quickly runs down the list of suspects, painstakingly eliminating them one by one.Mystery in the Channel is an excellent procedural that never leaves you in the dark while the Inspector is in the know.
It is not enough to find the killer, he must find the money to help these people.I enjoyed Mystery in the Channel.
Jag vet inte om jag gav den här boken lite orättvist betyg för att jag inte kunnat läsa koncentrerat de senaste dagarna.Det är en trettiotalsbok som känns märkligt aktuell.
Två män hittas mördade på en drivande yacht, och de visar sig vara i ledningen för ett av de största finansaktörerna, som just kraschat.Kommissarie French är en trevlig karaktär, och jag gillar den positiva tonen genom hela boken.
Och att han uppskattar allas yrkeskunnande i stället för att säga att de är simpla.Fallet löses väldigt metodiskt, så om man gillar att läsa om hur polisarbete går till (även om det är 30-tal) så gillar man nog den här boken.
Very good Golden Age mystery.
It is an extremely addictive read which I found impossible to put down as I just had to know what was coming next.Obviously, as the novel was written in the 30s, some of the period details are quaint like Moxon's failing spectacularly with debts of over £8,000, 000 (more like a bonus for some bankers nowadays!) or the chief constable of Kent being a fast driver so the speedometer hovered between 30 and 50 mph or the human resources they can devote to shadowing suspects but the theme of greedy bankers and the financial misery their failings bring to ordinary people is as relevant today as ever it was.I must admit that some of the nautical calculations involved in establishing alibis went over my head as it seemed like too much hard work to follow but it is all logical and clearly thought out so it makes sense.
It shows old fashioned deductive police work, devoid of modern computer calculations, if you want to know how fast a boat travels in a certain time scale, you use maps and replicate the voyage using friendly sailors as experts!!
Every time we get close to identifying the murderer - up pops evidence to show how wrong we are and off we go again!!
I loved the period detail and this story makes you realise how foot slogging detective work used to be.
As an early example of a police procedural, this is a very linear story.
With a few setbacks and a few red herrings, the story comes down to a version of a timetable problem - which is what I understand Freeman Wills Crofts is famous for.Some of the policing is a bit suspect - a head wound wouldn't bleed badly and Inspector French seems to have an unlimited budget and license to travel - but it was a gentler time and I was wiling to suspend belief, within reason.There's no character development and a fair amount of casual, but gentle, racism, this time against the French but it doesn't jar too much.
Enjoyable and a very quick read but I don't think I'll read any more of Crofts' stories for now.
It looks like all of the suspects are in the clear, but....Crofts makes French an interesting detective, in that we see how he's reasoning out a solution.
That's actually what I like about mysteries: the figuring out.
However, I realized about half-way through the book that I wasn't crazy about his style.
I was trying to go with it, but it was too "Dragnet." Lots of declarative sentences, lots of talk about motors and machines, that sort of thing.
Then I realized there were no women characters at all.
Again, "Dragnet."Nice as a historical piece, and well worked out, just not for me.
Two financiers found dead on a boat heading to France. Investment company going under and money missing. What I liked about this book is that it is different than the Holmes/ Poirot type detective where you don't get to follow their train of thought, know everything they did or even all that they found and then you get this denoument where everything is revealed. Shows the true sometimes plodding and not always exciting police work. I'd give it 3 stars but thought about 4- but unfortunately all the details can get a bit boring.
Inspector French is called to investigate the murder of two men at sea. He quickly learns that the deaths are part of a financial scandal involving a leading stock trading house in the city of London, although clues take him to France several times. As I was reading this, I was struck by the near-total absence of women in the book. A few policemen's wives are mentioned but that's it: Nobody in the victims' families, no secretaries, no store-clerks, no gold-digging girlfriends. Just a bit strange, somehow.
Maybe this just isn't my type of book. It seemed very dry and dusty to me. There were some nice lines but it wasn't enough to keep me engaged I'm afraid. And - spoiler alert - I hate it when the guy what dunnit is the person I thought it was right from the get go. Let's face it, he was found at the scene of the crime. But we spend a whole book going down other paths to prove why it wasn't all the other suspects....but I suspect that is just me. Grumble grumble
This is not a mystery for people who like personalities or humor. It is all procedure all the time. Inspector French may be a very nice person in real life but based on the evidence in this mystery, he is not someone I would want to spend any more time on, ie I will not be reading more of these mysteries.
This book exemplifies all that is to be admired in Inspector French. He is dogged and determined.He is not a flashy amateur detective nor an aristocratic one. He is solidly professional, following leads, making mistakes but thorough and painstaking.This is a most enjoyable example of the author at his best.
I read one of the author books, The Cask, before.
He disappointed me a little back then, he doesn't this time.This time, still the good plot, strong and nearly unbreakable alibi, good twist, great amount of knowledge about the transportation (this time is the marine transportation), but no detective involved.
Only the tremendous, restless work of the official force, with Inspector French at the center, is the reason for cracking the nutshell.
Compare with all of the others from the Golden Age, this book stands out in the vast number of creations in the thriller genre, which focus mainly on the unofficial force, normally a detective and often debase the official inspector or superintendent.
There's not a lot (as in barely any) of character development and no needless romance to muddy up the waters, which is right up my alley as I've had my fill of female characters throwing around dialogue like "But you must believe me, you've got to!" before flinging themselves on a couch.
But fair warning for a reader who enjoys delving into the emotional landscape of her detective because you're not finding it here.
Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.Reading these is just like a holiday for my brain — undemanding, quick, but usually reasonably satisfying.
I actually got a little bit more involved with this one that I expected, and found myself really disappointed by whodunnit — not because it was badly written or didn’t make sense, but because I didn’t want that character to be the culprit.
Everything was worked out very cleverly, though, and involved a good amount of solid policework rather than gut feelings, etc, which I always find more interesting than magical solutions.It’s not the most sparkling of writing, but it works.
It’s like a nice snack: solid enough to keep me going, though I’ll be wanting a fuller meal later on.
I must say I read this for the novelty and it was on sale at Amazon, but I enjoyed it very much.Language is a funny thing and it's interesting to see how much it's changed in such a short time, even with the kindles built in dictionary it was not always easy to understand some phrases.
I read a few reviews on Amazon complaining a policeman would not drink coffee which made me laugh.
So don't feel put off by reviews who don't understand English culture, this is a well put together book with interesting and thoughtful characters and is remarkably relevant to recent financial issues we have faced.Well worth a read as is book 1 of inspector French which I'm just about to finish reading.
I am working my way through the British Library Crime Classics.
I just finished Mystery in the Channel by Freeman Wills Croft.
Following Inspector French of Scotland Yard as he conducts his inquiries and follows clues to the murder of two men found dead on a yacht.
The owners of a well known financial securities firm, it appears that they have absconded with millions and now they are dead and the money is missing.
Inspector French makes progress, only to sometimes have to retrace his steps and go in a different direction....back and forth, forward, then stall.
I plan to look for more of Croft's work.
One of the best from the Golden Age of Mysteries, Mystery in the Channel has aged well.
Set in 1931, it is a seaworthy "locked room" puzzle.
Two men from a possibly troubled financial institution are found murdered on a yacht in the English Channel.
Inspector French, from Scotland Yard, gets the case and proceeds to develop and then discard many theories.
With all of those theories and clues, Crofts always plays fair with the reader.
Some will find the pace slow but that's what I enjoy about Golden Age mysteries.
They went by their wits back in the 1930's, no cell phones and computers to help them out.
This is the second book I have read by this author and his technique is to set out all the clues to let the reader try to solve the mystery themselves.
I’m the Hogs Back Mystery it was not too difficult to spot the culprit as the author consistently did not follow up obvious clues.
In this book it is much harder and whilst I did suspect the right person I did not put it together so the author beat me on this occasion.I enjoyed the Hogs Back Mystery more than this book.
A steamer, the Chichester, is crossing the English channel when it comes across a yacht in which they find the bodies of two dead men.. Inspector French investigates which leads him to uncover financial irregularities within a firm. Who out of all the suspects is the mastermind behind the scheme.A very detailed accounts of the procedures which leads French to his conclusions, sometimes a bit too detailed, but an interesting mystery anyway.A NetGalley Book
I loved the way this tale unfolded into red herring after red herring before at last hitting on the solution and I found the explanation of the Police work fascinating and extremely thorough in a time when they couldn't rely on DNA or much Science to help. Brain work and hard work solve this crime and I really admired that.
When a small yacht is founding drifting in the English Channel with two murdered victims, a Scotland Yard Inspector is sent to investigate. They soon discover that the men were partners in a banking firm that is suffering from financial difficulties. It proves to be a very difficult and challenging case because all of the potential suspects appear to have alibis
A police procedural more than a mystery, as we plod along with Inspector French on his constant travels, interviewing suspects, collecting evidence and corroborating alibis. All the characters are male and there is no psychological subtlety - that the motive was greed is as deep as it gets. The writing is competent and business-like but not, it has to be said, particularly entertaining.
From the beginning I thought I knew who the criminal was. And I was right. It is obvious, but it is still a decent read. The Cheney Mystery and Sir John Magill's Last Journey are better, but if you have nothing else to read, this is not a bad book.
