https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863348.A_Fable
Faulkner testou-me até ao limite. Deitou por terra toda e qualquer veleidade que eu pudesse ter de que esta seria uma leitura típica.Arremessou-me à parede, à lama. Atirou-me ao céu.Fez-me girar sobre mim própria. Caí, claro, atordoada.Aterrei em arco-íris submersos nas valas inundadas pela água da chuva.Quando me tentava levantar, fincava as mãos nos meus ombros com força sobre-humana.Por fim, penso que se apiedou de mim, permitindo que eu penetrasse no doce/terrífico cativeiro por ele efabulado.
Quite a writer Faulkner is.I'd call it a challenging read as the story would never come across easily.
To resurrect the  messiah of peace in fiction was a theme for this story which kept writer bound for almost a decade.Faulkner braids the wisps of words entwined with explicit details and then spins it, hurls around and fling in a delivery one catch the action in last moment, almost missing it.
The story tangles a lot, formation on different planes and different time blurs previous one, the paragraph long sentences makes you re-read some long sentences and yet you go on.
"All you can kill is man's meat.
You can't kill his voice."It's bemusing how this, probably the pinnacle of Faulkner's testing the limits of his own style, can be seen as such a flawed work.
On the one hand, it is one of his most difficult works, up there with "The Sound and the Fury".
But, if anything, Faulkner constantly tests the reader, weaving in and out of wonderful, lengthy, almost dream-like cacoffinies and then bluntly smashing you in the face with something unbewildering and beautiful.
It emerges that a saintly French corporal, together with his twelve apostles, has been making the rounds of the Allied forces (and apparently the German forces too) spreading by word and deed a gospel of non-violence and universal brotherhood.
The French corporal represents man's inextinguishable impulse towards unconditional love and brotherhood; or, to put it another way, he's the "champion of an esoteric realm of man's baseless hopes and his infinite capacity - no: passion - for unfact".
For within every man, too, lives the desire to get on in the world, an egotism which produces conflict, wars and armies.
the story is a good one, and there's more than enough of Faulkner's brilliant wordplay to justify a solid recommendation for the hardy.In "A Fable," in the fourth year of a grinding World War I, a French regiment ordered to attack refuses to do so.
The overall commanding general has his own remedy for the corporal, who turns out to have very close ties to the general.The two aforementioned scenes from the past do help the story a bit, but the cost might be some people's sanity.
A dark allegory to The Passion of Christ, it’s setting in the trenches of World War 1 was probably unsettling to the vast majority of it’s (Christian) readers.
The Runner represents the influence of the Corporal, who in turn represents Jesus, while the Quartermaster represents the influence of the General, who in turn represents God. To me the most powerful part of the book was the General's monologue to the Corporal before he sentenced him to death: 'forsakens' him, if you will.
The down side to Faulkner's insistence on placing each word meticulously though, is that it generates a VERY difficult book to read.
At times, it is almost like reading Cicero or some other Latin master because the sentences are so sprawling and each word means something.After Go Down, Moses; Faulkner's "major period" is behind him.
It is richly informed by the life events of William Faulkner and his generation, one which was essentially "at war" from 1914-1945, whether or not they ever got to the trenches.
This book was terrible and I have no idea why it won the Pulitzer, short of that it was written by Willy Faulkner.
I did not know how you could take the adventure, romance, and tragedy all out of war in a single novel until I read this, but Faulkner manages to do all of it.
It was painstaking to finish this one, but I was hoping that there would be that Faulkner pay off where you just love the end of the book, where he brings everything together in a way that blows your mind, but this did not happen in the novel.
Faulkner was no doubt a brilliant writer, but by the time he wrote this, his fifteenth novel, he was less in need of talent than of an editor.The plot itself is actually pretty straightforward: a French battalion in WWI lay down their arms and refuse to fight at the behest of a Christ-like corporal.
I'm sure the author would disagree (Faulkner viewed "A Fable" as his masterpiece), but good lord its tough to get through some of this.It becomes so unnecessarily dense, there are minor plot points that get lost or distorted in the minds of the readers.
The ending was frustrating precisely because the novel could have been cut in half and yet still have made a whole lot of sense (or nonsense).
There was little coherence right until the end of the novel, and editing could certainly have been done to make the story more readable and fluid.
I agree with a fellow reviewer of mine: if one sought to read easy, accessible Faulkner, I suggest As I Lay Dying; if one sought to read intricate, difficult, but rewarding Faulkner, I recommend The Sound and the Fury, and, if that was to one’s taste, Absalom, Absalom!, which I believe is his greatest work.
While I enjoyed seeing how the various portions of the Christ myth served as analogies for incidents and characters in the novel, it was the damning indictment of the powers behind the war that I found most interesting.
At times the novel (published in 1954) read like it might have been ripped from the pages of Pynchon's _Gravity's Rainbow_: the cynicism about governments and possible secret conspiracies and agreements to keep the war going, if only to show the troops (who desperately want peace) that they do not have the power to simply throw down their arms and stop fighting; the portraits of individual soldiers caught up in schemes for self-preservation and monetary gain; the nature of the relationships between the major allied powers to cover up one regiments mutiny (by having three American soldiers execute a French general and make it look like he was shot leading his troops into the fight).
This is an insanely difficult book that buries its flashes of brilliance in a welter of incomprehensibility.
When in 1889 Chekhov acquired a set of Dostoevsky's works at his agent's (Suvorin) book store, he wrote that Dostoevsky's writing was lengthy and lacked humility.
It seems to me that what he meant was that his texts weren't just full of meticulous lengthy descriptions, Dostoevsky didn't just shared his conjectures about life with the reader, but, rather, conveyed the author's perceptions of things to them.
The artist shows off his ability to perceive life in a very slow motion, so the reader wouldn't mistake that Dostoevsky's gift as a source of his precise observation with anything else.
As Chekhov said, the artist's vanity is ill tempered, inexorable, and unforgiving.
it will blow your mind.faulkner's pretty upfront with the heavyhandedness of the allegory--in many ways it feels like a dare, to see whether we can get past it to a much larger point he's trying to make about a) allegorical readings in general and b) the endurance of man and man's folly.
i feel like the book is a tad too much work for those viewpoints, which faulkner expresses (ironically enough) way more strongly in that acceptance speech than in the book which would take him five or six more years to put together.
When I started the Pulitzer reading I figured there would be some books I didn't like.
A Fable was Faulkner's 15th book and his first of 2 Pulitzer winners.
I've read dense novels with tough language and liked them but I felt that Faulkner was just showing off here.
His sentences rambled on for sometime a full page through the use of semi-colons, colons, hyphens, etc.
It was more that he would describe things over 3 different ways in the same sentence, the same action, the same item, etc.
After reading this book I felt like Faulkner was just beating me over the head.
It will put you off Faulkner for life probably.Having said that, A Fable certainly does have its moments - the confrontation between the French woman and the officer who turns out to be the father of the man he now has to execute for example.
Well, as you can probably imagine, the warmongers said, "we will have none of that!"This 'fable' mirrors the so-called greatest story ever told of Christ and there are so many references throughout.
The only reason I am not giving this 1 star is because Faulkner utilizes a beautiful lexicon throughout A Fable. But that's pretty much the only redeeming quality. I can't believe I actually managed to push through and finish this book. It's strange, cause I like hypothetical scenarios, and I like non sequiturs, but this book just goes on and on. Perhaps I am more a fan of brevity than I previously suspected.Oh, yeah. And Faulkner hates periods. As in, punctuation. And I LOVE punctuation. Love it.
The brilliance of William Faulkner.
This book by William Faulkner won the Pulitzer Prize in 1955 and was the first of two Pulitzer Prizes won by this author. I find Faulkner's writing style confusing and the story jumps around to various sub plots making it difficult to follow. The story is about a French regiment in WW1 involved in a mutiny. Anyone interested in a good WW1 story should read "One of Ours" by Willa Cather which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1923. I give Faulkner's "A Fable" 2 stars.
William Faulkner personally puts into his novel his own experience in World War I.
Within the spreading a group of 3,000 battalions decide to join Stephen and stop fighting with the other side of the war.
Even though Stephen was executed there is still peace among the people of France and Germany.
As the war was about to end the fighting continued due to the actions of both sides of the war.
A Fable is ultimately a very powerful novel about the lives that tried to change the course of history with the action of peace.
Good read though.First off, William Faulkner is one of my favorite authors.
His ability to stall time and pin a single moment down while he paints it from all angles in a flowing stream-of-consciousness is stunning and the experience I get from reading it is at once personal and impersonal.
Without faulting Faulkner for his style, and recognizing that plot isn't really the point with him, the end threw me off.
His point is poignant and I think it works, I think it it just could have done with another edit, both to cut it down (it's over 400 pages) and to blend the supernatural allegorical moment at the end into the body of the story better.
Regardless, the story seems to be the most clairvoyant when the women are involved.The Realist: First of all, why is Faulkner writing a book based in France about European soldiers during WWI at the end of WWII in the middle of the Cold War. I read a critique that storm of legend in Faulkner’s Yoknaptawpha county has two epicenters: The US Civil War and WWI.
This was the book Faulkner toiled on intermittently for 10 years and wanted to be his magnus opus.
The sections from Thursday night to "Tomorrow" (the Last Supper to the resurrection) are the very best of the book, but it takes a long, hard slog to get there, even for this experienced Faulkner reader (this is my 13th book of his).
However, I would not recommend this book to any but the most experienced readers, particularly of Faulkner.
If one wanted to parody Faulkner, this would be the book to satirize.
i recall this one but vaguely...though the setting is the world war numbered one.
of all the faulkner stories i read when i didn't have a clue though the one clue i was trailing was read faulkner...this one holds the most interest now for the subject matter.
these republicans in the trenchs opposed by the democrats in the trenches over across the way, well, seems that two soldiers one on each side to give up the ghost of partisanship and pow-wow.
see what gives.
a kodak moment.dan rather was too busy looking for paperwork to indict george and he missed the boat.
a foreign news-angle caught it on film...dated...that's why it glows.
check it out.

If you want a story then do not read this, if you can enjoy a work because it is well written and makes you slow down in your reading, then you will love this book. I knew i was reading Faulkner all thru the book but but was surprised by his characters, they were different from his other works that i have read., i had pace myself with this, only giving it three hours a day.. All this said, i will not read it again.
This very odd Faulkner novel blew me away. Its much too long and repetitive and overdone and pretentious, but despite all that, its great, very moving, somehow still affective. Even when its hard to tell whats going on, not to mention what Faulkner is doing with his retelling of the Passion, the novel is compelling, I was caught up in Faulkners passionate sentences and repetitions.
This very odd Faulkner novel blew me away. It̕s much too long and repetitive and overdone and pretentious, but despite all that, it̕s great, very moving, somehow still affective. Even when it̕s hard to tell what̕s going on, not to mention what Faulkner is doing with his retelling of the Passion, the novel is compelling, I was caught up in Faulkner̕s passionate sentences and repetitions.
This is way too messy to be as "moral" as Bloom and others think it is. Deeply, iridescently sad, like a lot of late Faulkner.
As good as it may be, I cannot stand Faulkner's writing style. Stream of consciousness. Either you hate it or you love it. Personally, I hate it.
'Do you know what the loneliest experience of all is? But of course you do: you just said so. It's breathing.'
