https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174853.Favorite_Father_Brown_Stories
Chesterton's Father Brown character is a Catholic priest who has a deep appreciation of human nature and an uncanny ability to unravel puzzles related to its worst sins, all while remaining unflappable.
In this way, Chesterton leaves all the discovery to Father Brown as well as all the explanation.
Only at the end of each story do we even know what the crime is, but we finish it satisfied that Father Brown was never stumped by each odd, perplexing situation.Perhaps it's his Victorian roots, but Chesterton has a deft way with atmosphere in these stories.
Short, rather dumpy Father Brown never fails to bring the reader through these worlds and out to safety.
He could not help, even unconsciously, asking himself all the questions that there were to be asked, and answering as many of them as he could; all that went on like his breathing or circulation." There's a reason why I consider Chesterton one of the most brilliant authors to ever brandish a pen and his detective, Father Brown, one of the cleverest crime solvers of the twentieth century - it is evidenced in the above paragraph which singly represents the eccentric vitality with which the writer invested the sleuth.
Excellent series of detective stories that, judging by the timing of their writing and the content of their narratives, offer a response of sorts to the hyper-rationalistic hero of the late 19th century, Sherlock Holmes.
Where Holmes relies purely on facts and careful observation, Chesterton's Father Brown comes to the truth a little more intuitively.
Chesterton also does an excellent job of varying the narrative approach, so that each story doesn't simply feel like another in a series, but rather seems to stand on its own.
"I mean that we here are on the wrong side of the tapestry," answered Father Brown. "The things that happen here do not seem to mean anything; they mean something somewhere else." My favorite quote from the book. It is from The Sins of Prince Saradine.
Chesterton is absolutely lovable and I want to marry him. I can even stomach his Christianity. This one, while not my favorite, is hugely entertaining.
G.K. Chesterton is remembered as a writer for many things, not the least of which is his series of tales featuring the Priest Sleuth Father Brown.
Brown is a keen observer of human nature, thanks to his vocation as a priest.
The name of Book Two, "A Twitch Upon the Thread," is a line from one of Chesterton's stories featuring Brown.
Hmmm.I'll probably read some more, just because I'm on this old detective fiction kick (this is much better than, say, the Circular Stair, which I wrote about a month or two ago.
A number of his most successful attempts at combining first-rate fiction with acute social observation appear in this original selection from his best detective stories featuring the priest-sleuth Father Brown."A Chesteronian version of Sherlock Holmes, this little cleric from Essex -- with 'a face as round and dull as a Norfolk dumpling' and 'eyes as empty as the North Sea' -- appears in six suspenseful, well-plotted tales: 'The Blue Cross', 'The Sins of Prince Saradine,' 'The Sign of the Broken Sword,' 'The Man in the Passage, 'The Perishing of the Pendragons,' and 'The Salad of Colonel Cray.'An essential item in any mystery collection, these delightful works offer a particular treat for lovers of vintage detective stories, and will engage any reader.'~~back coverWell, they didn't engage this reader.
The six stories chosen in this collection are a bit of a mixed bag; I thoroughly enjoyed “The Blue Cross,” “The Sins of Prince Saradine”, and “The Man in the Passage”, while “The Sign of the Broken Sword”, “The Perishing of the Pendragons”, and “The Salad of Colonel Cray” seemed lackluster in comparison, filled with confusing and unnecessary dialogue and vague resolutions.
These are intellectual stories for the intellectual reader, and I appreciate Chesterton’s genius as a writer and philosophical ponderer on the plights of man.
I enjoy these a lot. Perfect for subway rides because they are short and they are also full of clever observations on human moral/intellectual behavior. Behavior the good Father Brown can decipher pretty quick. It's always about applying understanding a persons character toward the completion of the investigation into a crime. If Sherlock Holmes has a specialty its the various types of ash from cigar smoke, whereas Brown's specialty is people. Both are excellent trackers though.
I like the concept of this diminutive priest who solves mysteries in ingenious ways, but I'd like more of a set-up. I think I would have preferred one of the original books so I could follow the adventures in chronological order. This "best of" compilation leaves me with a lot of unanswered questions, like how was Flambeau turned from a villain to Father Brown's sidekick?
3/11/13Clever little stories, but some are not ones the reader might be able to solve with the clues given, for Father Brown knows things the reader often does not and he does not divulge them until the end. Chesterton spends a good deal of time on scenery and personal characteristics, bringing the place and people to life.
There's something about reading a book with such a good use of the English language. Wow! On the other hand I found Father Brown's adventures rather boring and without much explanation as to how he came to such epiphanies in just three pages.
A very different type of detective, humble Father Brown, solves cases and unveils dark secrets. These stories are short and enjoyable. However, some of the cases are not solved as much as understood. Justice does not seem to come which makes the endings a bit odd.
Father Brown is one of the great detectives and thoroughly non-violent.
Not what I expected, but still entertaining. Father Brown isn't so much a detective as just extrememly observant.
Father Brown "mysteries" are a very strange phenomenon, not surprising given that Chesterton was such an eccentric writer.
Take the Sign of the Broken Sword, where Brown simply narrates to Flambeau what happened as they slog through a Norwegian night (the action all taking place in Brazil, of course).
Even in the stories that more closely approximate a mystery, like the Perishing of the Pendragons, there is this long peculiar buildup of mundane details and then a burst of insight, often (as in that case) varied by wacky action [and almost inevitably some odd gratuitous turn of the 20th century racist stereotyping], and I usually am left with the sense that I've been somewhat conned...there's no way that made sense...Damn, but they are colorful, though.
I loved this show and figured I'd check out a sampling of the mysteries. They good and I liked them. I think what struck me the most was how innocent they were. I'm pretty sure the average mystery now involves a serial killer, the FBI, and at least 4 dead bodies. In this work, some of the mysteries didn't have any murder at all! lt was surprising to see, and kinda depressing to think of how far we've come in 100 years.
This little collection contains just six of about fifty Father Brown stories that Chesterton wrote. I had a tough time following most of them, and resorted to audio versions to help me out. They're mysteries, and usually someone dies in a bizarre way that only Father Brown can figure out. Not my genre of choice, but they were interesting.
These stories were okay. I think maybe I was spoiled by the BBC show, Father Brown. I was expecting all his side kicks, and there weren't any. Of the 6 stories in this collection, I enjoyed 5 of them, not really able to keep my mind on "The Sign of the Broken Sword." I would try some more Father Brown stories though wishing they were more like the tv show.
A great little book of six short stories by Chesterton related to his fictional detective, Father Brown. Each story is short enough to be read in a single sitting. Some are quite funny.
Love the stories, easy to follow and great literature!
Delightful, charming, enjoyable read :)
Father Brown Fails to FascinateI’ve just finished reading a collection of short stories by G.
Father Brown, the main character and Holmes comparative, had quite a nice introduction in this story.
During one of the episodes I completely lost track all together of the plot and even when i went back and read it again I couldn’t make heads or tails of it.Thankfully, the last in the collection, “The Salad of Colonel Cray,” pulled me back in like a hot cup of tea on a cold day, and I could finish the novel on a high note.
Father Brown, wise and wily, is the creation of G.K. Chesterton, and this was my first read by this author.
Since I enjoy short stories I found this collection most entertaining.The six stories are: "The Blue Cross," :The Sins of Prince Saradine," "The Sign of the Broken Sword," "The Man in the Passage," "The Perishing of the Pendragons," and "The Salad of Colonel Cray." My favorites were Saradine and Broken Sword.
Prince Saradine survives the greed of his brother by playing to that very greed.
Broken Sword demonstrates the intellect of Father Brown who unravels the reputation of a famous soldier.
Honestly Folks, for decades I have tried to appreciate G.K. Chesterton. So I thought that I would read some favorite Father Brown stories. Who doesn't love a mystery? This attempt at Chesterton failed also.I have finally decided that it is his writing I do not like. I find it to be stilted. His phrasing throws me off and shocks me out of the story.I would really like to call this a good read, but I can not. I am glad that others love him.
I just love these classics. It been almost 2 decades since I first read them, and they are so whimsical and, well, English. I'm glad I found them again. It's the perfect time to introduce them to my mystery-loving teenage son.
I had heard of Father Brown mysteries, but never read any. The other day I pulled this book from our bookshelves and decided to see what they were about. There are rather interesting, back in time stories with odd characters. Father Brown rather reminded me of Monk, the television detective.
After reading Glaspey's Book (Great Books of the Christian Tradition) I wanted to read Chesterton's Father Brown series. They are well-written detective stories with a priest as the lead character. For light reading, they are certainly worth it.
The Father Brown tales just don't get old. loved it.
I started reading this after having watched Father Brown on Netflix. Chesterton's Brown is definitely the same quirky character. I prefer the longer versions presented by ATV.
