https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163815.Seventh_Heaven
Alice Hoffman being one of my favorite authors was the main reason for me to pick up this book.
The story starts out interesting, slating the story in a small town during a time in America when women are supposed to stay in the kitchen and raise the children.When the character Nora Silk is introduced, she is the antithesis of the other female characters.
Instead of focusing on Nora and her story, Hoffman jumps around from character to character and there is no real narrator.
4.5 starsWhile on vacation, I picked this up at a help yourself book shelf next to the pool.
The book was yellowed and musty, but I have always enjoyed Alice Hoffman's writing.
Once I read the first paragraph, I was hooked and pretty much read non stop until I was finished.
How did I miss this little gem by Alice Hoffman.
The story begins in 1959 in a middle class, suburban neighborhood.
A divorcée with 2 children moves into a neighborhood where people can hardly utter the word "divorced" without cringing.
At the start of the book I felt it was going really well and I was looking forward to more of the same but the book kind of derails and gets overcrowded with too many characters that you don't really care about or connect with and a really weak plot.On Hemlock Street, the houses are identical, the lawns tidy, and the families traditional.
Marriage difficulties, wayward teenagers, petty crime, deception, lies, betrayal, boredom are just some of the things that REALLY go on behind perfectly painted doors and manicured gardens.We are introduced throughout the book to many characters on the street, too many in my opinion, I was really getting lost with so many, terribly difficult to connect to them all and some of it just got rather pointless.
When they move onto the street where the norm is two parents, two children, and nothing unexpected, Nora Silk is ostracized, Billy is bullied, and it seems that the status quo will always regain its balance.But the men start to notice Nora's distinct grace with more than a bit of lust, and Nora's comments and advice to the women start to break cracks in the veneer of "we should do what we have always done." Sparks fly, a trace of magic is in the air, and before long, 1959 is going to roll over into the sixties, and Nora Silk's influence will be felt by all.I adored this book - much as I adored the previously mentioned Hoffman titles I listed above - and had that trademarked Hoffman lump in my throat when the book was drawing to a close.
1991, January 12016, January 5In the 25 years since I first read this, I confess I'd gotten a little vague on the details.
Long Island suburban witch, I recalled correctly, but the two boys had become two girls in my mind, probably conflated with the movie Mermaids.
And oddly, 25 years ago I didn't notice that Hoffman used "witch" as a sort of substitute for "slut": not in the shaming sense of promiscuous, but in the vague way that any young woman with autonomy, and agency, and sexuality (or even just visible boobs) gets called "slut" in middle school.
My favorite Alice Hoffman, this book uses its setting and characters very effectively to show how the looks of the American dream can be deceiving. When the main character moves to 1960s suburban American, her very presence makes life less perfect and yet somehow more real for the other people who live there. Like most Hoffman, this includes elements of magical realism, including a ghost who haunts not her killer, but his brother, and a mother who uses old spells to keep her child save at school.
Like many authors Alice Hoffman details the minutiae of her characters' lives, but unlike most she does it for good reason: things connect.
We get to know and care about so many different denizens of the neighborhood, from the kids in school to the parents in the houses and Hoffman manages all their stories with aplomb.
Of course, since this is Hoffman, there is magic afoot (view spoiler)[ witchery, mind reading and ghosts  (hide spoiler)] all abound in Hemlock Street, but its more magic realism than fantasy.
For some reason I don't read as much Alice Hoffman as perhaps I ought.
It's good storytelling, written with such great care that it reads effortlessly.
All of the houses are the same and it takes the residents some time to get used to the sameness but after six years there are small differences in the lots from landscaping, etc.
Well the men of the neighborhood band together to try to get the house sold and eventually a young divorcee, Nora Silk, moves in with her two small children.
The novel peeks into the private lives of the residents and what really takes place behind all of the sameness.
I'll also be looking to read more of Hoffman.
Seventh Heaven is a slice-of-life story set on a suburban street in 1959-1960.
They feel stifled by their lives and homes and families, a theme I've seen many times in other novels set in this time period.I had a slight difficulty keeping track of all the characters while reading.
I wish I had made a little chart from the beginning, of each family, their professions, ages of the kids, etc.
It breaks the flow of the story when you have to stop and try to remember the significance of the character you're reading about.
But what happens is the street is turned upside down.Other families on the street include: the McCarthys, boys, Ace and Jackie, and their patient father dubbed "the saint" by his sons; the Hennessys,Ellen, her cop husband Joe and son Stevie who makes Nora's son Billie's life a living hell; the Shapiros, Danny who could get into any college he wants due to his good grades and financial ability; and Rickie is seems unable to make wise choices about boyfriends and school; Donna Durgin, who walks out on her young children and husband because her life feels too empty.The description of the time period was 'spot on'.
Not as good as I was hoping for, but still interesting. Hillary Huber narrated the audiobook. 3 stars.
When Nora Silk moves in, a recently divorced mother-of-two she's looked upon with the greatest possible suspicion.
And slowly the rest of the street learns that her difference is not necessarily a bad thing.The 1950s in this book gave me the creeps, to be honest.
The story moves around a lot to the different persons living in Hemlock street, all with their own problems.
Some were more interesting to read than others though.
I understand that Nora is very different from the other people in the street, but would she really influence them all so much?
I was put off by the title Seventh Heaven, it reminded me too much of the TV series and I automatically labeled the book as cheesy and saccharin.
Nora Silk, divorced with two small children, moves to the suburbs of the late 50's, with stay at home moms, tidy homes and meatloaf dinners and the neighborhood and its residents start to erode from there.
The novel blurb is a little misleading, Nora and her son, Billy are just one of quite a few characters that we meet and observe as they go through life changing moments or altered ideologies.
Dark and sad, and a little heartbreaking. Not what I usually feel when reading an Alice Hoffman novel.
In 1960 Nora Silk moves into a "fixer upper" in a suburban neighborhood where everyone appears to be living the perfect life - she is not bringing perfection with her. However we soon learn that perfection is only an illusion from the outside looking in - Alice Hoffman is a joy to read and she always takes one on an interesting journey.
Perfect for a holiday weekend, the houses on Hemlock Street all look alike in this 1950's neighborhood, but the families within are not all the same and neither is the world evolving around them as the 1960's dawn. Full of character insight and tinged with a bit of the wonderful magic Alice Hoffman brings to stories.
Nem is tudom hogy értékeljem… Fülledt poros kisvárosi Amerika, a 60as évek kezdetén. Jól megteremtett hangulat, de a történés kevés, és az egész olyan befejezetlen. Mint egy jól elnyújtott rész egy kicsit régebbi született feleségekből, mielőtt emancipálódtak volna. :) Többet lehetett volna kezdeni a környezettel.
This book had me rolling my eyes. Not sure what else to say other than don’t waste your time.
This book gets an extra star because the setting is a Long Island suburb in the late sixties, just like the little suburb I grew up in. This book loses a star because it was almost something better. There was a little "practical magic" feeling, but too many pieces of it never went anywhere. It seemed more like a first/early novel. I know Hoffman could do better and I grade on a curve.
I enjoyed the story line but did have trouble with keeping up with all the characters.
Nora Silk, one of the main characters, shakes things up without trying, simply by being divorced with two children and moving into the vacant house on Hemlock Street .
The Hennessy family - Ellen and her cop husband Joe, who live across the street from Nora.
Nice work Alice Hoffman!Now to the food…………Reading about the past made me think of plain old foodstuff….the kind you might find in any of the houses on the street where I grew up.Let your nose led the senses as you walk in the back door and smell sweet onions and peppers cooking in olive oil.
A story about life in the 1950's and how life in one seemingly perfect neighborhood began changing after the arrival of a shocking (for the 50's) divorced mother and her family. It starts out pretty slow, with the characters a little hard to sort it and I was tempted to set it aside. But it picks up about halfway through and by the end I felt attached enough to some of them that I was a little sorry to see it end.
One of the few authors I will pre-order for and encourage everyone to read.Recently, NetGalley had two of her books on the shelf, "Property Of" and "Seventh Heaven".
What stuck out for me this time was that Nora, whose greatest wish was to fit in her neighborhood, was the greatest catalyst for the other women to decide it was okay to stand out.One of the things I love about Hoffman's books is the magical realism, and I think this was one of the first novels she wrote where it made such a large appearance.
"Seventh Heaven" is a story that centers around the character of Nora Silk, a young mother of two who's husband left her and the kids for a life in Vegas.
As the reader, we're given glimpses into the lives of several of the people of this small neighborhood in a story that shows people can change, and the veil of perfection will always be broken when we try to hide our fallacies.
While most of Alice Hoffman's books are a great read and relatable to some extent, this one truly touched me.
I also can't ever seem to bring myself to DNF them.Here's what the publishers say about this book "Nora Silk doesn’t really fit in on Hemlock Street, where every house looks the same.
And everyone on this little street in 1959 Long Island seems to sense the possibilities and perils of a different kind of future when they look at Nora Silk...This extraordinary novel by the author of The River King and Local Girls takes us back to a time when the exotic both terrified and intrigued us, and despite our most desperate attempts, our passions and secrets remained as stubbornly alive as the weeds in our well-trimmed lawns.
Hoffman's books would make sense without them.
It may also be what leads to my picking up the next book she writes.
This is the story of the same kind of neighborhood I lived in from age two to nine from 1956 to 1963.
The kids play outside until the moms call them in for dinner.
All the moms stay home and bake cookies for their kids.
Author Alice Hoffman creates this neighborhood and populates it with ordinary people living what we sometimes look back on as the perfect time.
A divorced mother (in 1959!!!) moves into the neighborhood.
Suddenly we get a better peek inside those identical homes on Hemlock Drive and realize there are a myriad of different problems behind closed doors.
Despite my great love of Alice Hoffman's writing, when I read the description for Seventh Heaven, I couldn't imagine having any desire to read about the stilted lives of people living during the 1950s, in a small town on Long Island.
In Seventh Heaven, the magic is subtle, but there.Hoffman's story tells how a young woman is left by a philandering husband, who goes to Vegas to make it big as a magician, leaving his wife with two young boys to raise - one, still a baby.
This woman leaves the tiny apartment she'd been sharing in Manhattan with her husband and moves to a small town in Long Island, where she's simultaneously hated by the women and desired by the men.
She and her kids move into a suburb with look-a- like houses and act-a-like families.
She finds only part time work at low pay.
She can hardly feed her family.
No one understands, but Billy finds out where she is.
Nora finds sexual release in a teenage neighbor boy who is struggling with grief over the loss of a girlfriend that was killed by his brother's reckless driving.
He goes on to graduate from high school, which was a total surprise to friends and family.
She manages only because she has such low expectations and is not afraid of hard work.
Seventh Heaven is Alice Hoffman’s 9th stand-alone novel and tells the story of when attractive divorcee Nora Silk came to live in Hemlock Street, Long Island with 8 year-old Billy and baby James.
Hoffman gives us beautiful prose and evocative descriptions that bring the reader right into the moment, even if it is occasionally not such a pleasant one.
When Hoffman writes, the reader feels all the anxiety, fear, frustration, joy, sorrow and wonder that her characters feel.
I really enjoyed the incongruity of a brilliant butterfly like Nora selling Tupperware to the oppressed moths of suburbia.
I loved this novel.
This book is the what the "Abstinence Teacher" might have been if Tom Perotta was a good writer or alternately, if he liked any of the characters in the book besides the one based on him.
Her books are so simple and sad and sweet and a little magical.
She sometimes gets weirdly lumped into the margins of fantasy, because events in her books are often just a little off kilter.
But she should probably just be counted as part of the magical realism tradition.
The magic that happens is just life or our hyperbolic reaction to it.
It's good stuff.I highly recommend this here book for the readin's.
