https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21618.Forever_Peace
Welcome to the future...where the final war is being waged ....against war itself. There is such a bounty of wonderful, insightful and important ideas stuffed into this novel that I find myself seriously bummed that weak storytelling and plodding central plot flow marred my enjoyment enough to keep me from awarding this a 4th star. Still, from a component standpoint, this is a collection of gems. THE POLITICS:The Haves:The Alliance, led by the U.S., but including most of what we would consider t
In addition to the central "war story" thread, the book also has another major plot thread involving a scientific experiment being taken on an orbital platform orbiting Jupiter that is designed to provide definitive answers to what happened at the “Big Bang”...if it doesn’t destroy the universe in the process.
This lack of character connection is even more troubling in this story because this novel is, at its core, a psychological examination of the human species and its propensity for aggression.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with
Big stakes, a lot of smarts and a flawed hero I really felt my heart go out to.I'd really like to read the other two books in this series, and will definitely be adding them to my 'Finishing-the-Series' list as soon as I clear enough of the sequels currently clogging it up!I have 40+ books sitting on my 'review-soon' shelf that I just don't have time to write proper reviews for, so I'm going to bash out as many of these mini-reviews as I can before Christmas :-)
This is not a sequel to The Forever War.Haldeman says it is not, in a statement at the beginning of the 1997 novel, that it is related in setting but not a sequel, and not really related that much.So why the title?Well, it’s about the storyline, a strangely intriguing idea that the reader doesn’t entirely get until near the end.
Both protagonists are fringe elements, a part of the described society but not card-carrying proponents of the larger socio-political majority.Forever Peace is an intriguing mix of John Brunner, John Scalzi and William Gibson and blended together with Haldeman’s exceptional storytelling ability.
Forever Peace is a highly acclaimed and beloved book to many, but I disagree.
You'd think that in such a technologically advanced society, where technology exists that allows us to share and empathize with every feeling and sensation with other humans in that net, to the ridiculous point where the protagonist--I kid you not, actually FUCKING MENSTRUATES, we'd see more interesting travel technology than planes and trains.
I'd like to think we would've way past the point where mixed raced relationships would still garner harsh looks, 31 years in the future.
Ce ar putea merge oare prost într-o lume în care oamenii nu mai sunt obligați să muncească (cu excepția celor trei ani obligatorii de stagiu militar) și statul le oferă cetățenilor cuminți o viață sigură și confortabilă fără ca aceștia să miște un deget?
Rapid și inteligent, tânărul este ales ca mecanic de soldier-boy (un soi de armuri uriașe controlate de la distanță de către oameni prin intermediul unei mufe, aceștia contopindu-și conștiința cu a mașinăriei și cu cele ale celorlalți participanți din grupul de luptă), ajungând să coordoneze un pluton.Cam atât se întâmpla până la jumătatea cărții...
This was so completely ridiculous that I laughed out loud, until I realized that Haldeman was completely serious.So having started out as a fairly interesting exploration of psychic-linked military ops, the story suddenly devolves into an incoherent techno-thriller in which ultra-deadly Hammer of God assassins stalk Julian and Amelia and their friends in an attempt to make sure that the Jupiter Project is not interfered with, which is confusing since it was Amelia and her science partners that proposed it in the first place.Events culminate with a big high-tech battle on a US military base where soldiers controlled by Hammer of God try to take over and ensure that the world can be destroyed as planned via the Jupiter Project (say what???).
This book starts slowly, then builds up a formidable foundation of ideas and possibilities before devolving to a fairly silly conclusion.
In some ways I found it similar to works by the likes of Crichton or (Neal) Stephenson that build a fascinating world on an engaging premise, then rapidly and artificially generate and resolve a crisis to stand as a plot.
The ideas in this book especially could have benefited from such treatment, and there are a lot of interesting ideas packed in this book.The book alternates between first and third person sections.
The first storyline revolves around the technological as well as psychological needs for fighting a near-future worldwide guerilla war, in which the powers behind a globalized World System must suppress desperate peasants who are on the losing end of that equation with little hope for changing it.
He wrote this novel several years before the global conflict between the Western-led World System and terrorist insurgencies that has flared up in the early 21st century, yet Haldeman's book may offer a vision of what that conflict might look like in the future.
Forever Peace (The Forever War #2), Joe Haldeman
A fascinating novel that effectively asks if war is an inevitable outcome of human nature and whether "to get rid of war, we have to become something other than human." About 100 years in the future, nanotechnology makes it unnecessary for peoples of the rich countries to work, but all citizens have to do a few years military service to deal with the pervasive revolutionary movements in the disenfranchised Third World countries under dictatorships in alliance with the dominant powers.
The power of such interpersonal melding to provide the seeds for making humans more peaceful is exploited by a revolutionary group in the military.
Definitely not the quality of The Forever War. Don't get confused by the similar "Forever" title - this is not a second part of Forever War, it doesn't share the setting and is only vaguely based on similar ideas. (The second part of Forever War is Forever Free).Nice story-telling. Characters are a bit extreme with suicidal tendencies and a good bit confusion. The last third reads rushed and the ending was a bit of a letdown.
Forever Peace is an interesting book in itself, describing how the group mind from The Forever War/Forever Free could come about, but I didn't really engage with it very much emotionally.
Partially because the main character, Julian, is self-destructive and emotionally off.
It's self-defence, perhaps.
It's not a headspace I want to spend much time in.
At least it's reasonably well handled.It isn't really connected to the other books very closely, either, which doesn't help, and the switching between first/third person is odd: sometimes it felt natural, and at other times, really jarred.I enjoyed it, in parts, but it sort of leaves me shrugging a bit in ambivalence, too.
I began this book wondering which Joe Haldeman I’d get. Would it be the author of the celebrated classic  The Forever War ? Or would it be the author of the ho-hum thriller  Work Done for Hire ? Turns out Forever Peace is a little bit of both.This is a book that asks a simple philosophical question: is making war an essential part of human nature? As with most simple philosophical questions, the answer is complicated, and it’s a great question to ask as part of a science-fiction story. Haldeman
Along the way, protagonist Julian Class and his lover, Amelia Harding, discover that a physics experiment in orbit of Jupiter is a Very Bad Idea™, but that it should all be OK if they can just execute a secret conspiracy to make everyone in the world Love each other.In other words, the first half of this book is a deep and compelling look at the horrors of 21st-century warfare and the second half is a psychedelic trip I would have expected from a Heinlein novel after someone ate the good mushrooms.Let’s talk about that first half, since I really liked it.
Probleme:- nu e o carte, ci practic 2: la jumătate Halderman se plictisește și deraiază pe cu totul altă poveste;- nu e un military scifi decât vag, la început, și acela prost realizat;- e lungită, plicitisitoare și dezlânată;- e lipsită de originalitate, fiind o compilație de șabloane și idei destul de cunoscute (roboți de luptă conduși de la distanță, războaie asimetrice Nord-Sud, experiment științific ce poate distruge lumea etc);- trecerea constantă de la pers I la III cu referire la același personaj este obositoare și absolut inutilă, nu i-am înțeles scopul;- lumea e subdezvoltată ca descriere, nu e prea clar de ce se întâmplă ce se întâmplă, ”noroc” de faptul că oricum nu m-a păsat;- personajele nu sunt bine construite și majoritatea celor secundare apar și dispar fără noimă și fără a fi dezvoltate;- ca și în Războiul Etern, Halderman are o problemă cu excesul obsesiv de referințe la sex; cartea curge cam așa: ceva, ceva, SEX!, ceva, SEX, SEX!, ceva, ceva, SEX!
Both novels won the Hugo & Nebula, and explore the theme of war’s futility, although from different perspectives and in separate story-worlds.
Readers expecting a continuation of Forever War’s interstellar conflict or relativistic time dilation effects, will see that instead this story features a strictly terrestrial struggle between the wealthy nations, fueled by effortless nano-factory produced plenty, and the struggling excluded masses.
The earlier novel, written in the immediate post-Vietnam days of an antagonistic welcome for returning veterans, further exaggerated the alienation of the protagonist with a fish-out-of-water situation that placed the character hopelessly out of touch with his own century.
Though not a sequel to The Forever War, it's similar name and same author force the comparison to be made.The basic idea of Forever Peace is that implants in people allow them to control military equipment remotely by being jacked in.
The theme is that this deeper connection allows a level of empathy between human beings that prevent war all together.Basically, this is yet another anti-war book by Haldeman.
If you liked The Forever War, you'll probably like this book as well, though it didn't really do it for me in the end.
As a preface to Forever Peace, Haldeman says, "This book is not a continuation of my 1975 novel The Forever War. From the author's point of view it is kind of a sequel..." From a readers point of view it has little to do with The Forever War, though it is usually listed as the second in a series.
In terms of reading order, I think it doesn't matter at all which is read first.Forever Peace is a kind of military sci-fi cyberpunk intrigue story.
The ending does seem a little rushed, almost as if the author felt that the climax had been reached and so, just wrap it up.
La verdad es que me siento un poco decepcionado con este libro.
De hecho, el trabajo especulativo sobre el impacto que tendría cierta tecnología sobre la guerra, la paz mundial y la sociedad me parece magnífico.Sin embargo la trama me ha parecido un poco inocente y sin sobresaltos.
Todo sale como debería salir.Y es que desde el momento en el que te enteras del objetivo real del libro (no de lo que viene siendo la primera parte) sabes cómo va a pasar y qué va a pasar.
Me quedo con La guerra interminable sin lugar a dudas.Interesante y entretenido pero predecible y lineal.
This is an science fiction story with a fascinating premise: the eradication of war through sensitizing individuals to powerful empathetic connections. Yeah, I know, but what is more intriguing to me is two opposing feelings that I took away from the book. One, I was overwhelmed and utterly convinced of the good in the idea. Two, I felt intensely guilty for witnessing the brainwashing of an entire (albeit fictional) world population. A thought-inspiring story that made up for in ideas what it lacked in stylish prose.
I really liked the author's Forever War.This one, however, not so much. It was, well, weird. Seemed very unfocused; starts out as an exploration into the future of modern warfare. Then into some sort of apocalyptic doomsday conspiracy thriller. Very superficial feeling.From a sci-fi standpoint, I was never convinced he knew the science behind what he was talking about which is a big no-no!Ah well. A basically enjoyable read, but I wouldn't seek it out.
Joe Haldeman books are what I call easy reads. The storys track fairly fast and there is minimal character development, but enough. Haldeman has a potty mouth sometimes which I don't find offensive but younger readers may not appreciate his vivid language.All his books are entertaining and easily read. There is not too much complicated plot lines so again easy to read.Recommended
Mai multe idei decit in prima carte. Cu toate ca nu au legatura una cu alta. Dar.. nu a avut aceeasi scinteie pentru mine ca anterioara. Oricum este de citit.
My favorite book of the year. A great work of literature, rather than my typical "a great fantasy book" or "a great scifi book" or "a great way to kill time"("read" as an audiobook)
This book is actually really good.
The year is 2040ish and the world is divided by the ongoing Ngumi War, which is fought by the Alliance led by the US against the Ngumi, which is comprised of various poorer countries.
He and his lover eventually discover two extremely tempting secrets that could either destroy the world or save it from further wars.
However, both books are really good, deserved winners of the major awards, and they both ask really interesting questions about us.
So much wasted potential.
Found it slow and hard to get into until about 150-200 pages in. character introductions felt like they dragged on way to long and then the ending is summed up essentially in a couple pages. didn't feel satisfying at all. Just not a fan of Haldeman's writing having read 2 of his books.
Haldeman presents an interesting idea here & offers a novel solution.
He carries this bad concept from about halfway into the plot up to the very end, towards a fairy tale ending that honestly does not feel consistent with the rest of the novel and its grizzly happenings.If by the ending pages you're not already bleeding from the ears after being bludgeoned over the head with the whole "WAR IS BAD MAAAAN!" propaganda repeatedly, by the time you fully realize that the main villains are cookie cutter religious zealots with no clearly defined personalities except for "God shall guide us" AGAIN, you may feel a bit numb to the whole thing as a whole.The villains I think bothered me the most while reading this, my conscious mind continuously asking "WHY RELIGION AGAIN?
The technological elements of the story are really intriguing, as is some of the social commentary, but ultimately the plot doesn't do either of them justice.I came to Forever Peace with reasonably high hopes and expectations after being pleasantly surprised with The Forever War. I knew that it was more of a thematic sequel, but seeing as those themes (the pointlessness of war, alienation from one's society of origin, shifting social views toward sexuality) are of great interest to me, I was looking forward to seeing them explored in a new setting.The pointlessness of war and the deconstruction of its heroic reputation is probably the theme that Haldeman tackles best.
In the year 2043, our world is embroiled in a large-scale war between the Alliance, composed of industrialised Western nations, and the Ngumi, a loose coalition of developing nations without access to the nano-forging technology that contributes to much of the Alliance’s wealth.
Our viewpoint into this war comes from Julian Class, a draftee who controls one of the remotely-operated mechanised units called soldierboys, a job that requires an intimate mind-link and cooperative effort with the rest of the platoon.It’s such a promising setup for a story.
