https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137491.The_Toothpaste_Millionaire
The story follows Kate, a 6th grader and her friend Rufus, who is a genius.
The book is about how he markets and sells his toothpaste and the expansion of his business which he runs by himself with the help of some of his friends.
Though it's certainly not typical for a middle schooler to start their own company, it is certainly possible, which is why this book can be classified as contemporary realistic fiction.
In the story, Rufus builds his business up with very little adult influence and it was entirely his own idea.
A young Black American boy with the entrepreneurial skills of Madame CJ Walker and the curiosity and ingenuity of George Washington Carver brings his classmates from different backgrounds together to create something better and more cost effective than what already exists in 1960's Cleveland, Ohio.Inspired by his like minded, industrious grandmother - Rufus Mayflower, a boy outraged by the high cost of toothpaste - designs a product for less than 20% of the cost of existing brands.To me this story embodies hope.
I learned a valuable lesson or two with this book.
If I read it that was long ago because it's been around as long as I can remember.
Who would want to read it?
Well, I did and the book is valuable!
If you haven't read it, do so.
There is a good reason this book is still included in many Opening Day Collection lists.I'm getting a new copy and certainly sharing this book often.
I really think kids would enjoy it.Go find a copy, and more importantly don't cut this title from your collections!
Rufus is black, but he's also a kid, and the adults who dominate the business landscape don't want to give him the time of day.
As TOOTHPASTE grows in popularity, eventually it's necessary to take out a loan for factory equipment and other essentials, but banks won't front money to a twelve-year-old, not even a whiz kid with a solid business model.
Thirty-five years after The Toothpaste Millionaire first entered print in 1972, Gary Paulsen released Lawn Boy, a more popular book that explores the idea of a kid becoming wealthy after his neighborhood business performs absurdly well.
It reads a lot like a student essay, though a bit more informal.There is some early 1970s social thinking that seems perhaps a bit too contrived - the girl is white, the boy is black and they think nothing of this, although it is explicitly stated that others do.
But it's presented in such an appealing and humorous way that this does not feel like an "issues" book.
The illustrations by Jan Palmer make me think of what Trina Schart Hyman would do if the wind weren't constantly blowing in her world.
I think I must know Palmer from something else, but I'm not sure what right now.
it was good.
The story is narrated by Rufus's friend, Kate, who, along with her classmates, solves math problems based on the growth of Rufus's business, modeling for readers how to calculate Rufus's costs, profits, etc.This book is certainly a gift to anyone trying to teach a reluctant math learner.
It also teaches kids how businesses are formed and how they run without bogging them down in a lot of details that sound boring or tedious.But while this is one of the appealing aspects of the book, it's not the only one.
Spoiler alert!I take the time to write a review because I want to remember some of the ways that the characters create and handle their business challenges.Stockholders: The main character, a 6th grade boy, convinces other people to work for him not for money today but a return on the investment of time later on.
He has a projection of where sales will be and the profit he'll make, and those who help in the early stages get ownership in the company.
This is a great little story about how an idea becomes a product becomes a business.
As a child, I loved the idea that a kid could become a millionaire by creating something everyone used and then selling it at a reasonable price.
As an adult, I enjoy the interactions between the characters.
Rufus isn't too smart to take advice from his friend Kate, and through helping Rufus, Kate discovers a talent for writing.
The technology is a little dated, and today's children may not be familiar with how race relations were in the 1970s, but it's still a good starting point for teaching children about economic basics.
I thought this was an adorable book about a smart boy and his friends. It is really a shocking tale of a great idea. I loved it, I even did a book report on it. The story of how I found it starts in my 4th grade elementary library. The library was having a book sale because they wanted to get more books. So When I saw it I just wanted to get it because I thought it would be cool. Boy did it go past my expectations!
Great book on being a young entrepreneur... I enjoyed it every bit as much as my son did.... I think he would have benefited from reading it at a slightly older age - maybe 9. He understood quite a bit of the math but not all of it because we obviously haven't covered those concepts yet.... we own this book so we'll reread it in a couple of years.
I really enjoyed this one. It has many educational aspects without being a beat your head over it type of book. It deals with racism, sexism, math, stocks, accounting, and more all in a quick read. I read it on my own when I found myself bookless but I'll be sharing it with my kids very soon.
A great kid's book that has stimulated alot of conversation on frugality, making stuff, and business ownership. Thanks for the lead JoDean. This is a definite reread!
A fun story about a boy who becomes a millionaire making toothpaste.
I think upper elementary kids will really enjoy it, and also middle grade reluctant readers.
It will speak to any kid who has ever dreamed of starting a business and making big money.
I really loved it until I got to the end, which I found a little awkward and confusing (one of the characters starts imagining the story as a movie script, and it's a bit confusing discerning what is really happening and what she is imagining for her movie script.) All in all, it's a good, solid choice!
The content of the story and the lessons learned are what earned this book four stars. The writing is pretty simplistic. Depending on the reader, that could be a good thing. As a read-aloud, the simple sentence structures forced me to really use voice and inflection to color the text, since the word selections didn't do that themselves. That said, this book is excellent at getting kids to learn about, becoming interested in, and understand concepts of business and economics. It's a great discussion tool, as well.
I bought this book for one of the kids, and it’s been sitting on my shelf for a couple of years now. It was an ok book. Cute, clean, but nothing special. I’m trying to decide if it’s worth the shelf space. I think it might be a good book for older children who struggle with reading because the sentence structure is simple, but the content would probably be of more interest to a fourth - sixth grader.
I read this to my first grader and third grader. Though some of the math concepts were over their heads, others were adaptable to their level. Like many kids, my kids have wanted to "start a business." This book fleshed out some of the obstacles that might be encountered in setting up one's own business... as well as the problem-solving involved to move past those obstacles.
Fabulous book for 4th/5th grade girls and boys. The book shows kids working together to achieve an amazing goal. No difference according to sex or race. Just a win/win book for everyone with positive role models. Just good all around!!!!! And a fun read as well. Cannot wait to do PBL using this book as a model. Highly recommend!
I like this story and I like how it shows that even kids like me and make a huge difference and get rich. I do not like how it talks a little about rasicm in the book and how black and white are different which I HATE. but the rest of the book is good and about a kid who got an idea to make his own 3 cent tooth paste and sold it for 3 cents and got super rich.
This was our favorite book of the summer. It's a little simpler than The Pushcart War. I think The Toothpaste Millionaire will reach younger children a little easier than The Pushcart War.This would be a great book to guide kids through some "real-life" math problems.
Incrível! Me surpreendeu completamente!Esse livro trata de tudo um pouco, sexismo, racismo, discriminação de idade...E é trabalho de uma forma simplesmente maravilhosa.Recomendo para todas as idades! <3
A fun, inventive book for kids. If you've read the Lemonade War, this is what I *wanted* that book to be (but was disappointed). The characters here are likable and smart, and the plot introduces lots of business ideas and application.
What a great way to teach children entrepreneurship and thinking skills! I loved how it went subtly into business details. Delight to read and easy to understand. Enjoyed!
Had a lot of fun with this as a read-aloud for my kids age 7 and 8.
For a book I read in elementary school, I remember quite a bit from this one. I thought it was a good book.
My 9 year old loved it! What a fun story.
My edition the picture-book sized, 89 pp, Bank Street/HMH, 1972.
I love that most people didn't care about race, but Merrill reminded us that it is relevant to some people.
Much of the book is dated, but unfortunately I don't think the bits about racism are.
And the history lesson about Grandma MayFlower's rejection of her slave name is valuable, and the bits about auctions & bureaucrats & bank loans, etc.
are fascinating to the right audience.And aren't most kids the right audience?
But not entirely a fantasy, and I love it now and would have when I was a kid, too.
my friend recommended me to read this book because he already read it and he said it was interesting
What a fun book to read aloud! I love the math problems sprinkled throughout, and my students loved the humor. I'm definitely going to buy The Pushcart War next.
So many wonderful topics to discuss with a child presented in easy to understand language. Every child should read this book with a parent.
