https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50990.The_Breast
Ξεκινώ αυτή την κριτική λέγοντας ότι:Ναι το έπιασα για τον τίτλο.Ναι το έπιασα για το εξώφυλλο.(αλλά κυρίως)Ναι το έπιασα για τον λόγο ότι η μεταμόρφωση του Κάφκα είναι από τις πιο αγαπημένες μου νουβέλες.Η πρώτη μου επαφή με Ροθ ήταν μέσω ενός βυζιού, χωρίς σιλικόνη αλλά γεμάτο σκέψεις.(*φωνή Αντώνη Κανάκη* Τι λέειιι;!)Ο Γκρέκορ Σάμσα του Κάφκα, ξυπνά ένα πρωί για να πάει δουλειά και βρίσκει τον εαυτό του μεταμορφωμένο σε ένα έντομο σε μέγεθος Λαμπραντόρ.
Ο Κάφκα δεν διευκρινίζει τι έντομο, αλλά από την αηδία που προκαλεί στους οικείους του μάλλον σε κατσαρίδα μεταμορφώθηκε.Ο Δρ.
Ντέηβιντ Κεπες, ξυπνά ένα πρωί για να πάει (μάλλον κι αυτός) δουλειά στο πανεπιστήμιο ως καθηγητής συγκριτικής λογοτεχνίας και βρίσκει τον εαυτό του μεταμορφωμένο σε ένα βυζί βάρους εβδομήντα κιλών και με με μια δωδεκάποντη θηλη.
Però, visto insieme agli altri, è interessante.Nel 1972, infatti, Roth invece di rilanciare il suo primo alter ego di successo, Alexander Portnoy, ne proponeva qui un secondo, destinato a ben maggiore importanza (ma mai quanto quella di Nathan Zuckerman): David Kepesh, professore di letteratura, che si ritrova trasformato in un enorme mammella.Non c'è neanche bisogno di sottolineare il gioco di rimandi con la Metamorfosi di Kafka -uno dei principalissimi tra gli autori principali di Roth -, ma anche con Il naso di Gogol’.
E c’è anche il dottor Klinger, che quando David pensa di essere semplicemente pazzo, troppo influenzato dalla letteratura che insegna, e non davvero trasformato in una tetta, pronuncia la frase più bella: «Gogol’, Kafka e compagnia bella – va incontro a grossi guai se continua per questa strada.»
I just...did not get this. I didn't dislike it, I wasn't offended by it, I was just...baffled. I don't get what he's trying to do or say or what the deeper hidden meaning might be. If there was one, it flew right over my head. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Think of this as Roth being fixated with Kafka (see Metamorphosis) and Gogol (see the Nose).
Roth was in the middle of his Kafka/Czechoslovakia preoccupation.
After Portnoy's Complaint and its huge success, Roth moved to "the woods" in Connecticut; he started teaching courses on Kafka at University of Pennsylvania.
Late 60s/early 70s Roth novels have never been my favorite, but understanding he was going to spend his next four years (1972-76) chasing Kafka and interacting with/helping/promoting Czecholslovakian writers* puts the Breast in context for me.
I think of it as the birthing of the NEW Roth.
The one who would go on to write the great Zuckerman novels.
So, the novel?
The plot is similar to Kafka's Metamorphosis, but he turns into a giant breast rather than a giant cockroach. I just couldn't get with this book. Maybe I'm not interested enough in breasts? But I'm male, so that seems unlikely. I give up.
The protagonist of this story is a literature professor Kepesh who, quite literally, gets turned into a giant breast.
While The Breast obviously takes inspiration from Gogol’s THE NOSE and Kafka’s METAMORPHOSIS (a fact often mentioned in the book itself), it is very much written in Roth’s style.
When I compare this novel to other Roth’s works, I do feel it's somewhat lacking.
Still, The Breast is fabulous in its grotesqueness and it even manages to be easily readable.
It might not be his best work, but it is distinctly his in terms of writing style and topics it explores.
This has to be something from Roth's early days, thrust later on his publisher who, given Roth's previous track record, must have said, "Sure, why not?"The stunning characters, the sense of place, the underlying history, and the story itself all combined to make "Conversion of the Jews" one of the best short stories I've ever read.
By the time Roth wrote "Conversion" he was more than capable of pulling off an absurdist story with a ripe underlying meaning.
No underlying meaning.
At one point near the end the breast laments: "My life's drama has all the appeal of some tenth-grade reader..." And in that, he said a teat full.
Phil, Phil, Phil. What's the matter with you? You don't publish this kind of thing under your own name, you put it on DeviantArt under the username BoobMan33 like everybody else.
In Kafkaesque form, a man turns into a giant breast and somehow still continues to be a horny dick. This seems more like a story you write for yourself and never, ever, let it see the light of day. We all have those, Mr. Roth, but most of us have the good sense to, uh, keep it to ourselves.
La metamorfosi che Kepesch vive è quella di tramutarsi in seno,in un seno femminile del peso di settanta chili.Pian piano, il nostro personaggio dovrà affrontare e comprendere la sua difficile situazione.
Proprio attraverso il tatto, percepisce tutte le sensazioni ed emozioni, compreso il piacere sessuale.Il protagonista prova ad accettare questa situazione con la quale convive, ma fa fatica e non sempre gli risulta facile.Con una scrittura grottesca che mescola l'ironia e la drammaticità, Il seno si rivela essere un racconto visionario, surreale, a tratti inquietante, che mette in luce i molti aspetti di Roth, dei suoi personaggi e di David Kepesch, in particolare.
Гърдата: http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2015/10/blo...Представям си разговора между Рот и издателя на книгата да е протекъл по следния начин:- Слушай, Рот, трябва ми нещо ново. - Лари (примерно) нямам нищо готово.- Няма значение. Искам да е кратко, сексуално и шокиращо. Забъркай пак глупостите, които беше чел от Фройд. Сложи и щипка от еврейския въпрос. - Ами... какво ще кажеш за новела от 90 стр., в която главният герой се превръща в женска гърда?- ТОВА Е! Гениално! Ти го заби от първия път! Чакам ръкописа ти до края на деня!И така, мили дечица, се появила "Гърдата".Гърдата: http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2015/10/blo...
I wonder if Philip Roth sat down and said "I want to write Metamorphosis again, but instead of the story being fascinating I'm going to make it mildly amusing.
Oh, also, instead of a giant bug, my character is going to turn into a giant boob.
That being said, I liked that the character figured, eventually, that he was not in fact a giant boob but was just insane and thought he was a giant boob.
And everyone is like "no, really, you're a boob" And he's like "See, you just told me that I'm NOT a boob, I'm sure, but I heard that you said I am.
εκεί που έκλασε ο Κάφκα.
Breve ma intenso, paradossale e grottesco, a tratti inquietante ed ironico.David Kepesh, docente di letteratura, si sveglia una mattina e scopre di non essere più se stesso ma di avere le sembianze di una mammella gigante.
Le due più grandi ossessioni di David sono il desiderio sessuale, che prevale soprattutto all'inizio della trasformazione - questa pulsione sembra, infatti, ostacolare la presa di coscienza del protagonista - e la letteratura - per mezzo della quale tenterà di spiegare l'origine della sua nuova e mostruosa condizione.
Perché dovrebbe essere ragionevole quando tutto intorno a lui sembra non avere più alcun senso?
E' il mio primo scritto di Philip Roth che leggo, e non potevo iniziare con qualcosa di più assurdo e grottesco di questo racconto!Dimenticate il naso di Gogol e lo scarafaggio di Kafka, questo Seno è la metamorfosi del nuovo millennio, della società attuale, è una riflessione sul potere del desiderio sessuale e quello altrettanto potente della letteratura.Il racconto è fluido e si legge tutto d'un fiato, tra ossessioni di carattere sessuale e citazioni letterarie, veniamo catapultati nel caos interiore del nostro eroe-mammella dove sembra di partecipare ad un "gioco” a momenti drammatico (ma sempre grottesco) ad altri a un divertissement; infatti è la parte psicologica a farla da padrona per tutto il racconto, dove l'autore tramite questa metafora/seno ci fa entrare nella psiche del protagonista dove avviene tutto il dramma.Geniale la parte dove il protagonista vive la trasformazione come un'allucinazione di un folle:“Perchè questo grosso sacco di tessuto senza cervello, desiderabile, muto, che è manipolato e non manipola, indifeso, immobile, pendulo, lì, come è lì e pende un seno?
What a bizarre little story, imagine Kafka’s Metamorphosis, but instead of a large beetle, the star of this short story wakes up one morning as an enormous breast. There is lots of existential crisis, as well as discussions of what make a person a person and an individual...and of course since he picked a breast, a discussion of sex and sexual stimulation. But really, I think I’m going to need the Cliffnotes for this one...
This is one of my favourite Roth fictions and has the sort of funny, mad, energetic exuberance of Portnoy's Complaint, while being much more absurd and surreal in its premise.
There is nothing else quite like it in Roth's oeuvre.
From the opening line 'It began oddly.', you are drawn into a first-person story told by David Kepesh, a literary professor (and the principal character who appears in two subsequent novels by Roth, The Professor Of Desire, and The Dying Animal).
Από μωρά αυτό κυνηγάμε.Ο Ροθ βαδίζοντας στα χνάρια του Καφκα με την αλληγορία αυτή θίγει την καταναλωτική κοινωνία.Σεξισμός και ανάγκη ατομικής επιβεβαίωσης μεσώ του αντίθετου φύλου.Ο ήρωας υποχόνδριος (να άλλη μια αρρώστια της εποχής) μεταμορφώνεται σε κάτι που δεν μπορεί να ελέγξει και ταυτόχρονα ποθεί.Το βιβλίο αναφέρεται ξεκάθαρα στις εσωτερικές αλλαγές στη ζωή μας και πως τις διαχειριζόμαστε και τι γίνεται αν δεν μπορούμε να τις διαχειριστούμε.
Όσοι από εσάς το αγόρασαν επειδή έχει ένα βυζί(πολύ ωραίο φυσικά) στο εξώφυλλο για να κάνουν ποζεριλίκι καλό θα είναι να το επιστρέψετε μιας και λειτουργεί σαν καθρεφτής."I am the egg man, they are the egg men.I am the walrus, coo coo cachoo"
An imaginative take on Kafka's Metamorphosis. Roth not only pays homage to Kafka, but in some ways offers a possible explanation to how Gregor Samsa found himself changed into a beetle. In The Breast, Kepesh eventually imagines that he has not morphed at all, but has suffered some sort of deep psychological breakdown, and only imagines he's a breast. A similar idea is often suggested by readers when trying to understand Kafka.Recommended for Roth fans and Kafka fans.
เรารูสึกวามันมีความหืนกระหายในกามารมณอยูตลอดเวลาที เดวิด เคเพช ซึงกลายเปน นม ตองการ แตในนึงความตองการนันกถูกกดทับเอาไว (ซึงเปนสิงทีซิกมันด ฟรอยดเคยเสนอ) และการเผชิญหนากับความสุขทีมาอยางรวดเรว รวมถึงสิงทีจะถูกวิพากษตอจากนัน เรารูสึกไดถึงความไมไววางใจของตัวละครตลอดทังเรือง ทีเดวิด เคเพช มักจะคอยถามอยูเสมอๆ วา มีใครเฝามองเขาอยูหรือเปลา หรือเขาอยูทีไหน และตอนนีเขาอยูกับใครบาง มันกสะทอนความเปนอยูในอเมริกันยุคนันไดพอสมควร
เรารู้สึกว่ามันมีความหื่นกระหายในกามารมณ์อยู่ตลอดเวลาที่ เดวิด เคเพช ซึ่งกลายเป็น นม ต้องการ แต่ในนึงความต้องการนั้นก็ถูกกดทับเอาไว้ (ซึ่งเป็นสิ่งที่ซิกมันด์ ฟรอยด์เคยเสนอ) และการเผชิญหน้ากับความสุขที่มาอย่างรวดเร็ว รวมถึงสิ่งที่จะถูกวิพากษ์ต่อจากนั้น เรารู้สึกได้ถึงความไม่ไว้วางใจของตัวละครตลอดทั้งเรื่อง ที่เดวิด เคเพช มักจะคอยถามอยู่เสมอๆ ว่า มีใครเฝ้ามองเขาอยู่หรือเปล่า หรือเขาอยู่ที่ไหน และตอนนี้เขาอยู่กับใครบ้าง มันก็สะท้อนความเป็นอยู่ในอเมริกันยุคนั้นได้พอสมควร
Такъв е случаят и с нашата Гърда - Дейвид Кепеш е познат на читателя (е, който е чел все пак) от The Professor of Desire и The Dying Animal.Говоря повече за автора, защото повестта е супер кратка (90 страници за справка, даже няма и толкова) и ако толкова ви сърби да я прочетете, ще я прочетете.
В книжните ревюта, искам да кажа.Ох, както и да е, отплесвам се, и това "ревю" започва да прилича повече на пост от типа мило дневниче, но основната ми мисъл беше, че не пиша толкова за повестта, защото ако тръгна да я анализирам, ще надвиша нейния обем, пък и личността на автора ѝ ми е къде-къде по-интересна в 1 през нощта.Интересни са и твърденията на Рот за литературата.
Divertido cuento donde un profesor de universidad se convierte en pecho femenino. Tomando como base la metamorfosis de Kafka y añadiendo unas gotas de ironía, humor y sexo Roth construye un ligero relato que divierte por lo bizarro de sus ideas. Me recordó mucho a las peculiares ideas de Roth en El mal de Portnoy.
Più un 2,5 in verità... Si tratta di uno dei libri più strani che abbia mai letto nella mia carriera da lettrice. Non mi è dispiaciuto, ma non si può assolutamente parlare di capolavoro.
His girlfriend of three years, Claire loyally visits him everyday as does his father.
He keeps trying to convince Claire to have vaginal sex with his nipple, which she won't do.
(view spoiler)[My guess is: he's saying that for all of our intelligence, knowledge, education, for whatever-we-know and whatever-we-have-learned, despite all of our books, art, language, religions, philosophies, relationships, medical and psychological wisdom, whether god is or is not, body/mind reality, throughout the time of human existence, we really know nothing about why we are or have any clue about our existence.
He turns in a boob, literally.:) This isn't a bad book to read when you're sitting around aimlessly for a few days as I am...and it's a nice, short book--obviously a 1,000 page epic about a man-boob would be impressive, but hard to imagine....
He has to cede to the logic of his health status and the reality checks of his doctor more than his literary mind is comfortable with.It's another one of those books where a loving female looks past her man's major issue.
Of course The Breast is metaphorical, but what's great is the extent to which Roth can convince you that it's not.
apathy, etc...and/or it's just about a guy who turns into a breast.
As Kafka's Metamorphosis and Samsa turn 100 today, I read Roth's take on it from about 35 years ago.
On the face of it, Roth's David Kepesh turns into a 6 foot breast but the novella explores in detail his depraved psyche and not mere external reactions to it.
His Kepesh then becomes a literary double for Roth's other more illustrious characters, be it Alexander Portnoy, Zuckerman, or in fact Roth himself.True, the premise sounds so ridiculous at first that some find their surprise turn in into disgust but if you get through the entire thing (it'll only take an hour or so to read it cover to cover), you'll to ably see why Roth's grotesquerie isn't disgusting but rather a modern literary classic itself.
I think the metaphor here is the Breast is Fame?
through the unnumbered chapters Roth explains the different aspects as his character experiences them and reacts.
In the end he even dismisses trying to be great like Shakespeare or Kafka, who inspired him and just enjoying the superficial aspects of the fame, the girls, the women who will spread for him.
He is afraid, and overwhelmed by the idea of being judged, of repeating a great achievement.Early on he says " Why do i care if i am not alone when i think i am?...Whats the difference to me?
Scherzo d’AutoreSuperato non senza difficoltà lo sconcerto iniziale, si cerca di comprendere i motiv
In the same vein as Gregor Samsa (the male protagonist of Kafka's Metamorphosis, who woke up one morning to realize, to his horror, that he had metamorphosed into a gigantic roach-like creature), David Kepesh (the male protagonist of Philip Roth's novella, The Breast), wakes up one day only to find that he has morphed into a female breast—  a 155-lb. female breast!!! This novella is highly philosophical. It's grotesque... and weird... and wonderful. It's Contemporary American Literature at its f
In the same vein as Gregor Samsa (the male protagonist of Kafka's Metamorphosis, who woke up one morning to realize, to his horror, that he had metamorphosed into a gigantic roach-like creature), David Kepesh (the male protagonist of Philip Roth's novella, The Breast), wakes up one day only to find that he has morphed into a female breast— 
female breast!!!
This novella is highly philosophical.
It's grotesque...
and weird...
and wonderful.
It's Contemporary American Literature at its finest, & it's written by an author whom I believe is THE greatest writer of the 20th Century.
It's a novella that would have made Freud proud.Full Review to Come...

