https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266007.More_Pricks_Than_Kicks
The beginnings of Beckett: arcane, outré, plump with rococo vocab and spiky turns of phrase, incomprehensible, comprehensible in places, incomprehensible again, prone to the polylingual pun, liable to the phrase “little bump of amativeness”, self-referential and self-laudatory (“thank you Mr Beckett”), frustrating as hell, funny on occasion, abounding in references to Dante, liable to the phrase “nuptial hawser”, freewheelingly absurdist, bursting with the sort of smart-alec snottery that triggered the Joyce comparisons. Proceed with caution, you may find more kicks than pricks.
Sharp and Witty, but the plot seems to be buried under a barrage of complicated phrasing and snappy 5-syllable words.
Here we have Sam's official bow, and it shows. Bits are fantastic, others far too wooly for no sake I can detect. If this sounds familiar that's because it is also an apt description for 99% of debut works by any author. Rare is the author that emerges who doesn't try to jam too many great ideas in for fear that they may never get another chance. But, hey, it's Sammy B! It's not like you can get away without reading every word. Guy's like fucking crack, I swear...
This novel (Beckett's first) is composed of a series of stories that tell the story of the adult life of Belacqua Shuah, a sort of schmuck version of Stephen Dedalus.
You know, sort of what you would expect from Beckett.
This 170 page book took me about a month to read, mostly because I insisted on reading it next to my computer so that I could look up words in the OED and because after reading a story I pretty much had my fill of Beckett for a few days.
That is sort of the story of me and Beckett.
It's no surprise that Beckett got on so well with Joyce.
Both share certain similarities of style and tone, as well as a selfish lack of concern for the reader.
It takes concentration to extract the plot from the quagmire of wordplay.
Sometimes the action is clear, and other times - well, you either follow the author's strange line of thought, or you are lost (a dictionary won't help).
But this is Beckett, so it's not supposed to be easy, or make complete sense.The prose is playful, masterful, exuberant, and the story is often funny, at times poignant.
“‘Have sense’ she said sharply, ‘lobsters are always boiled alive.
‘They feel nothing’ she said.In the depths of the sea it had crept into the cruel pot.
Now it was going alive into scalding water.
Take into the air my quiet breath.‘You make a fuss’ she said angrily ‘and upset me and then lash into it for your dinner.’She lifted the lobster clear of the table.
More Pricks Than Kicks is probably my favourite work of Samuel Beckett's early period, about the bizarre adventures of student Belacqua and his solipsistic existence in Dublin. Beckett's early writing was obviously very much influenced by fellow Irishman James Joyce and the complex wordplay and sometimes incomprehensible jargon is on full display at times, although to me it felt mainly limited to two of the longest chapters/short stories ('Wet Night' and 'What a Misfortune'). The other shorter stories/fragments feature beautiful descriptions of the Irish countryside and surrounding nature, tender moments of reflection and agony, and really darkly humorous sketches.
I read this when I was 19 and had a very intense crush on a Beckett-loving Latin professor who is now a psychiatrist. Looking at it again I have no idea how I understood anything.
Вот это — совершенно Джойсов роман в эпизодах (жаль, что составители сборников часто дербанят его на «рассказы»), он весь происходит в топографии «Дублинцев» и «Улисса», так что если кому не хватило Джойса, могут догнаться первой книжкой Бекетта.
Покоряют мир пускай герои-стахановцы (недаром там, видимо, возникает «резиновый Сталин», хорошее, кстати, название для гаражной рок-группы).
У Белаквы же ничего, кроме омерзения, этот мир не вызывает.Топография же здесь настолько прекрасна, что организовать по ней маршруты выходного дня, как для «Улисса», было бы, наверное, тоже крайне занимательно, не знаю — может, они и существуют.
А переводить название «Больше лает, чем кусает» могло прийти в голову только душевнобольному кретину.
People often find Beckett grim and he is, but he's also dead funny. This early work is hilarious. (And grim).From my 1982 notebook:Belacqua's jolly japes in Beckett's superb prose - corns complicated his night. Every sentence wound up like clockwork, ready to delight. eg It was the old story of the salad days, torment in the terms and in the intervals a measure of ease.Balanced prose, the words a mathemetics of image and sound and meaning. (I was young, well 27).
This was a very enjoyable collection of short stories, but I think my favorite was the first out of the box, Dante and the Lobster. With a title like that, what's not to like? It was a very funny description of the preparation of lunch after reading Divine Comedy and then locking the door to ensure there would be no interruptions ..."Toast must not on any account be done too rapidly...If there was one thing he abominated more than another it was to feel his teeth meet in a bathos of pith and dough."Beckett was wonderful.
İnançsızlık bir boşluktur. İnsan boşlukta kalmaya katlanamaz.

I'd read alotof Beckett before I got around to this one.
I think Beckett's a great writer but he's too grim for me.
I'm already grim enuf..
SO, when I read this & found it to be very well written (no surprise) but also from an earlier phase in his work where people are more than just blind worms crawling pointlessly thru the mud (nice surprise) I was relieved.
Anyway, just when I was probably not expecting much from Beckett anymore he reminded me that he really IS a great writer & far, far more than a one trick existentialist (if using that word here isn't too inappropriate).
as with everything Beckett writes, these stories are intriguing, as much for their content as for their autobiographical elements...
it is interesting to see the first fiction attempts of Beckett, and one wonders why his writings often took so long to get published...
less of the short sentences and wordplay and repetitiousness of his later work, but enjoyable all the same...
another story, "Echo's Bones" was supposed to be included in this collection, but the publisher rejected it and it was unpublished until 2014...
this is early Beckett, and one sees the future in fits and starts...
More Pricks Than Kicks is a book of Beckett’s early short stories.
In addition, in contrast to the restricted vocabulary of his later works like Watt or How It Is, the stories in More Kicks Than Pricks deploy an eclectic lexicon, including puns, slang, technical jargon, Irish, Latin, French, German and Italian, which may remind the reader that one of Beckett’s mentors was the author of Ulysses and Finnegans Wake, James Joyce.
Belacqua is the character around whom Beckett has built this collection of short stories and by the end he has been firmly established as a credible human figure, with a curmudgeonly personality and foibles that are all his own.
he was an indolent bourgeois poltroon, very talented up to a point, but not fitted for private life in the best and brightest sense, in the sense to which he referred when he bragged how he furnished his mind and lived there, because it was the last ditch when all was said and done."Yellow is the funniest story, in which the unfortunate Belacqua is seen anxiously composing himself in a hospital bed as he awaits a minor operation, when he trusts the doctors will give him a new lease of apathy.
Beckett was heavily influenced by Joyce and the elder writer's fingerprints are all over these stories.For the most part each story can be read on its own, taken together they tell the life story of Belacqua Shuah.
I'll go on." -The Unnamable "The sun shone on, having no alternative, on the nothing new." -Murphy)I read this piece in college and returned to it as I am going to make an attempt to read Beckett in his entirety this year.
I am now half way through Murphy and would suggest that a more casual reader start there, or with Molloy, which I also read in college and thoroughly enjoyed.
öncelikle orijinal ismi göz önünde bulundurulduğunda kitabın çeviri ismi bence inanılmaz başarısız.
bu durumdan hiç mutlu değilim, belirtmek istedim.
kitapla alakalı ise; beckett'ın ilk zamanları.
biraz daha anlaşılır ve kendini anlatma derdi güttüğü nadir kitaplarından.
ama benim çok hoşuma gitti, okumak gerçekten keyifliydi.
beckett'la ilgili her zaman en çok sevdiğim şey çok önemli olayları 1-2 cümle ile anlatıp geçmesi.
sıradan olayları ise satırlarca ayrıntılı ayrıntılı anlatması.
gerçekten çok eğlenceli bi özellik, sanki hayatımızda büyük dertler yokmuş ya da bu dertler çok sıradanmış gibi bir hava uyandırıyor.
nasıl desem, bence birçoğumuz bu "kayıtsızlık" seviyesine ulaştığında daha az mutsuz olurdu.

Was that english ? I mean do they consider translating into American or even readable British english ? It might well have been James Joyce as far as I was concerned. I generally approach these writers as codes to be solved. The problem was, I could figure out entire passages of description of Belaqua doing something very mundane, but then I got lost when any action happened. Parts were good...
I just don't get Beckett, man. I've given him a fair shot, but I just don't get him.
Sorry... except for the part where the guy on the bike is at the bar drinking before the people get in the car and chase after him.... I am at a complete loss.I tried....really I did.
ToriginsHUWNODREDRS (;;/;)
Although this was Beckett's first published fiction, this series of short stories was a reworking of a novel Beckett wrote that no one would publish.
That novel, "Dream of Fair to Middling Women," was then released decades later.
I read them in the order they were written, rather than published, which may have heightened my enjoyment of this collection.
It's easy to see why no one would publish Dream of Fair; it's even more extremely inaccessible than Beckett's already often inaccessible works.
Many find in these stories a burdensome and immature Beckett, but I often prefer some of his earlier work, and I liked this collection a great deal.
At 27 Beckett displays an enviable erudition but does it sometimes come across as something of a conceit?
It's almost as though the protagonist's and the author's inebriation becomes, at times, indistinguishable one from the other.
This leads at times to hallucinatory and 'stream of consciousness' prose which, to be frank, can (and should only) be taken in small doses.
There is an impressive display, nevertheless, in his use of foreign languages (ie not English) and the whole, I feel, paints a romantic picture of student days in Dublin during the period.
Beckett beginning to show beyond the shadow of Joyce. Slight plot and narrative, glimpsing out from under the weight of great words and elaborately structured sentences. It’s a swim amongst vocabulary, sometimes for the delight of vocabulary’s own sake and sometimes for the sensation of those words and twists. Rushed ending to a very enjoyable snapshot.
Beckett's writing is inventive and funny as always, but the pieces here are too disjointed for a continuous narrative, and too fragmentary and underdeveloped for a collection of stories.
From evocative to incomprehensible and back again every few minutes. Never read any other Beckett, but I'm guessing he was just warming up here.
As with all of Beckett, I was living practically penniless and poverty stricken as a student. So I could totally relate to the rich absurdity of the Beckett world. Yes, Beckett is comic - hilarious - since comedy is mostly structured from pain and suffering. What more is there to say really? So if you find yourself penniless and have little more than a pocket full of 'sucking stones' and an excess of time on your hands - I suggest diving into all of Beckett. The novels and prose are my favorites. So funny, so sad, so true.
