https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22044728-how-watson-learned-the-trick
This is a miniature book written by Arthur Conan Doyle himself for queen Mary's dolls' house and in particular its library.
The book measures just 38.5 x 30 mm so its more like half a page long story.
The story Conan Doyle wrote revolves around Holmes and Watson's relationship.
It is a funny short story that shows Watson trying to master Holmes' art of deduction.
I also enjoyed the booklet that comes with the miniature book which was brief but also very informative about queen Mary's dolls' house, the story behind it and those who contributed to its making.
If only i could have this miniature library.
This is a super cool item. It should be a hit with lovers of Arthur Conan Doyle, doll and doll house lovers and fans of the royal family. Super short story that most people don't even know exists as well as super hilarious. Beautiful presentation that would make a fantastic gift.
This is a replica of the Sherlock Holmes short story that was written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in 1922 for Queen Mary, wife of King George V. Many writers of the time were requested to create books for Queen Mary's Doll House library. This is an original story that has Watson trying and failing to use Sherlock's method of deductive reasoning. This is a beautiful reproduction of the original handwritten manuscript. Readers who enjoy Sherlock Holmes or miniature books will find this of interest; readers who enjoy both will be thrilled.
Oh, bless Watson! Did he really think that Sherlock's deducing skills were that easy to acquire?A fun, very short story written by Arthur Conan Doyle for the Queen Mary's doll's house in Windsor.
Such a fun, short little Holmes parody by Doyle! It's basically a little scene that happens a great deal in the Sherlock Holmes stories, and even in the BBC Sherlock series.
A short parody where Dr. Watson thinks he's learned a few things while watching Sherlock Holmes. Witty and clever.
It is more of joke than short story with Doyle telling us why Sherlockean tricks are not to be done at home. Read it here (takes about two minutes)
Oh this was so much fun to read, Doyle trolling Watson! I have no idea why this short story is not included in the "Complete Sherlock Holmes" collection ...it is written by Doyle after all.
I got this for Christmas as a bit of a lark, hoping that Watson would ... ah but that would be spoilers. It was great, the background reading booklet was super interesting and the sweetest miniature Sherlock Holmes book to go with it. Perfect for the Holmesian collector or just a little bookwork needing books for the dolls house.
3.5 out of 5
This was a teeeeeny tiny book written in Doyle's handwriting for a royal dollhouse. Super fun!
Awww, so cute! It's a half-page short story about Watson trying to apply Holmes' methods and... shhh, no spoilers!You can find the story online and read it for yourselves :)ed. look how cute it is! https://www.instagram.com/p/BZglD1KFAih/
It is amazing that it one of the shortest story about, Sherlock and seldom people have read it. If feel rather lucky that got to read this story in a Magazine. -Over and out Rao Umar
This is a miniature book housed in a box disguised as a regular size book. I love learning about Queen Mary's dollhouse and this is a replica of the miniature Sherlock Holmes story Arthur Conan Doyle wrote especially for the Library of that dollhouse in 1922. Confession: I bought two of these. Published in Britain, but available on amazon.
This story is about half a page long, and it's hilarious. I love how Conan Doyle obviously hates the character he created himself, and how he makes fun of his own work!
Haha. More of an in-joke than anything else.
capullo <3
This one ended with a chuckle!
The story was all right. It was kinda humorous, but all in all, it felt like it was still in its old time frame of speaking. To simplify, the story did not age well.
well it cant be said a book per se... its more of Watson embarrassing himself and Sherlock very much enjoying doing it :D
Meh. I don't really like Sherlock Holmes.Read it here: http://www.sherlockian.net/acd/thetri...
