https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18368816-schlump
Well not completely forgotten the Nazis had not forgotten this anti-war book and promptly burnt it in 1933.When Hans Herbert Grimm wrote Schlump it was published anonymously and this was his first and last ever novel.
Grimm uses Schlump to describe the war as very cruel very poor joke in which all suffered no glory in this war for all.His descriptions of the officers not being leaders of men who kept themselves better fed and well away from the front lines and ask did you ever see an officer eat out of a mess tin?
In its time it might have been quite sacrilegious showing that not all German soldiers were strong and brave, Generals were rarely seen and their tactics poor, there was a lot of malingering, war was hell and the damage to men indescribable. The book does describe life behind the lines, the starvation of the German nation, and how survival was all about luck.The writing was supposedly black humour but it is full of Dad jokes, poor one-liners and stuttering prose.
Schlump is a WWI novel, kind of a cross between All Quiet on the Western Front and The Good Soldier Švejk.
At times a humid wind rustled the treetops, the bushes dripped with the perpetual fog, door handles were wet, and thick drops of water fell incessantly from gutters on to the street."To the horrific, as in this scene from the trenches:"Schlump pictured himself back in the trenches, surrounded by dead soldiers in pools of their own blood.
He had to stumble over horrifically mutilated bodies, and everywhere before him the ground crumbled away, exposing mass graves where men rotted and decayed in their thousands.
After the war, though Grimm revealed his authorship of the novel and others vehemently defended him and argued that he “cannot be regarded as a Nazi,” Grimm was not allowed to teach again because of his membership in the party.
It is a book worth reading, a story that tells, in its own way, of the disordering and the sorrow of war, in any time and place.
But he who fashioned mankind, he ought to be thoroughly ashamed of himself, for his creation is an utter disgrace!" This is counterpointed by the view of his captain, a kind of ur-Nazi who predicts their suffering will ensure that a leader with a "superhuman soul" will arise to lead Germany in uniting Europe in distinction and glory, prefiguring the political atmosphere between the wars.The cover blurb of my edition suggests that Schlump, the young soldier whose story this is, is "maybe even a new type of man." To me he's as old as fiction itself--though I'd first seen him as a kind of blundering sad sack, I came to think of him as a Sancho Panza without a Don Quixote.
Het was een debuutroman van een leraar, Hans Herbert Grimm, die als jonge man de Eerste Wereldoorlog meemaakte en er levend maar gedesillusioneerd uit terugkeerde.
Grimm voelde zich bedreigd, werd lid van de NSDAP, metselde het boek in en claimde pas na de Tweede Wereldoorlog het auteurschap.
Stiefdochter Christa Grimm nam vervolgens contact op met Weidermann en uiteindelijk werd het boek in 2014 in Duitsland opnieuw uitgegeven.
Ik voeg er nog aan toe dat de Nederlandse vertaling heel verzorgd is en, net zoals de nieuwe Duitse uitgave, de gestileerde cover overneemt van het oorspronkelijke boek.
Je me suis tellement ennuyée que j'ai fini par lire ce livre en diagonale. Je n'aime pas faire ça mais je n'en voyais pas le bout. Je voulais vraiment l'apprécier, surtout que c'est une période qui m'intéresse. Raté. Le personnage de Schlump est détestable. Bref, j'ai vraiment essayé mais ce livre n'est pas pour moi.
Absolut zu Unrecht in Vergessenheit geratener Klassiker der erste (Anti)Weltkriegsliteratur.Auch das Nachwort von Volker Weidemann rückt das Buch noch einmal in das richtige Licht.
In 1928, German schoolmaster Hans Herbert Grimm anonymously published his first and only book, the semi-autobiographical anti-war novel, Schlump.
Perhaps like many other young men at that time, he has a rather romanticised vision of life as a soldier, a view which is typified by the following passage.He could picture himself in a field-grey uniform, the girls eyeing him up and offering him cigarettes.
A good man at heart, Schlump gets on well with the locals, especially the rather high-spirited young girls who see to it that he is not short of female companionship.Everything is relatively peaceful here in the countryside, so much so that it would be relatively easy for our protagonist to forget his true status as a soldier were it not for the faint rumble of cannons in the background.
Schlump is too shadowy a character to sustain interest.
Of course, at times he is cold, hungry and scared, and he does sustain some wounds, but unlike millions of soldiers he comes out of the war physically and morally intact.
The girl he'd kissed on page 1 has patiently waited for him all these years, and one of the last sentences of the book reads: "Schlump was back to his cheerful self, and he sang again, a bright and joyful tune." Very admirable but I don't think this reflects the soul-destroying impact of WWI on infantry men who had spent years in the trenches.
A must-read. Think of a young German Billy Pilgrim/Candide being tossed through the horrors of the trenches in WW1 like a cork on an ocean of blood, guts, girls, and hypocritical and inept leaders. Yet somehow keeps his soul. Banned by the Nazis, its author (who tried to publish anonymously via the same house that gave us Kafka, Zweig, Schickele, and Trakle) persecuted until he himself, blew his brains out in his home when his wife went shopping.
A remarkable forgotten WWI story.
The novel was burnt by the Nazi's and the author fearing that he would be uncovered bricked up his copy of the book in one of the walls of his house.The novel follows a 17 year old boy nicknamed Schlump who voluntarily joined the army.
Schlump ends up in hospital twice and this adds fresh insight as we see the lengths some soldiers would go through to try and stop their return to the front such as faking shell shock or appenditcis, and again there is resentment that the richer elements of society are not putting their lives on the line.Christ, they're not going to get me back to the front.
The main character of the book is a 17 year old male who wants to live, adventure, get off the farm, experience life so he avidly volunteers for the German infantry and goes to war, WW I.
After many war stories of what life in the trenches is like (i.e. miserable, terrible, hellish beyond comprehension) Schlump’s experience culminates while taking part in a raid attack against English trenches with his good friend & mentor the German Michel (der Michel is a figure known to represent the national character of the German people, as Uncle Sam or Yankee Doodle represents the American).
Schlump is 16 when the novel opens in 1914, and joins the first world war for Germany in 1915.
The plot is episodic, stitched together with stories told to Schlump by people he meets, and the girls who seem to fall for him in every posting.
I enjoyed moments of beauty contrasted with the war: Schlump stealing into a girl's bed to recreate the scene from a fable; the train ride back to Germany through Berlin; and much attention to the colours of the seasons.
Ο Σλουμπ(που στα ελληνικά το παρατσούκλι του σημαίνει τυχεράκιας)είναι παιδί μίας μικροαστής οικογένειας..
Λίγους μήνες αργότερα κατατάσσεται όπου χρονικά συμπίπτει με την έναρξη του Α’ Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου.Αρκετά ευτράπελα θα ζήσει στην εκπαίδευση των νεοσύλλεκτων αλλά η γνώση της γαλλικής γλώσσας θα του δώσει το εισιτήριο να διοικήσει ένα χωριό και να επανδρώσει το διοικητήριο στο Λόφραντ.Αλλάζει η ζωή του άρδην όταν του έρχεται η κλήση να υπηρετήσει στο μέτωπο.
Στο κλίμα της αβεβαιότητας δέχεται ένα γράμμα από μία κοπέλα στο χωριό του και έτσι αποφασίζει να επιστρέψει στη πατρίδα του.Είναι ένα αντιπολεμικό μυθιστόρημα που θίγει το παράλογο του πολέμου.
An account of a German soldier in WWI, written by Grimm in the late '20s, published anonymously.
It's written in a simple, matter of fact style, and not translated with much in the way of elegance.
Schlump goes through one harrowing experience in the trenches, described in all its gory horrific madness, but the rest of the time he's behind the front lines trying to meet girls and not get killed.
It's at once a book about the madness of war and a tale of a young man who remains dreamy and hopeful no matter the horrors he endures at the hands of Germany's corrupt and war-crazed leaders.
Schlump is a German Schweik (of "The Good Soldier...."), a happy-go-lucky bloke who skates through the Great War sampling women and wine until he's sent to the trenches.
The shifting back and forth from comedy to tragedy, with a mix of fantasy, perhaps dilutes the impact of the book, although it also perhaps reflects the absurdity of life during wartime.
"Schlump," though, was real enough to be burned by the Nazis, and Grimm tried desperately to hide his authorship of the book during the Nazi/World War II era.
Not as powerful as "All Quiet on the Western Front," but certainly a welcome addition to literature from the German side of the Great War.
Maybe it's the translation, but the pitch at the back tells of something different from what's inside. If you're looking for humor, even dark humor, you likely won't find it. Just jagged sentencing and fumblings of what might have been punch lines.
Fácil de leer, a veces divertida, a veces da miedo como cualquier relato de locos en la guerra, no es gran arte pero cumple con retratar la estupidez que implica la guerra para las personas sencillas
The overall sensibility, and especially the early chapters, of Schlump is quite unlike the best known of all WWI novels, All Quiet on the Western Front, written by another German, Erich Maria Remarque.
He is much more like “the good soldier Švejk, in the Czech novel of that name,The Good Soldier Švejk, (There is still a tavern in Prague with his name emblazoning the front,) an anti-war novel that has us see army life, and even war, from the eyes of a good-hearted, simpleton.
Schlump is not a simpleton, though, despite his name.
Interesting, occasionally amusing. Adds depth to our conception of what it was like to fight in the First World War.
Tale of a front-line soldier in WWI and the horror of trench warfare. Book was burned by the Nazi's because it was critical of the military. Interesting story based on some of the author's real experiences.
"Entonces uno del pelotón preguntó: “¿Y cuánto lleváis casados, Franz?”.
(…) “¿Y cuánto pesa el mozo, cinco kilos?” Todos se echaron a reír.
(…) Él mandó una carta bastante insolente, lo llevaban los demonios y quería matar a la pobre Anni.
Ya al cabo de una semana llegó la respuesta: Querido Franz: No debes creer todo lo que te cuenten tus camaradas.
Y tu pobre mujer debe creerse lo que dicen.
Claro que tienen razón: hay que llevar casado nueve meses para tener niños.
¿O es que no nos hemos casado los dos?
“No hagas caso a los demás, son muy brutos.
I'm quite disappointed in my first NYRB subscription book.
It did get better once Schlump actually goes to war and there is some value in the descriptions of German ineptitude in the war, especially since we typically read about the efficiency of the Germans.
But the horrors of war are covered much better in All Quiet on the Western Front and the writing in that book is much stronger.
The afterward laments how the success of Quiet overshadowed Schlump but personally I think that was a good thing.
Many compare this book to the much better known All Quiet on the Western Front, but it more than stands out on it's own merits.
Schlump follows the titular character as he signs up for the War because he thinks it will be cool.
He's luckier than the "All Quiet..." boys by nature of not being on the front for very long.
When he his though, it shows the horror rather graphically.As optimistic/opportunistic as Schlump is, he does what he needs to survive and stay sane.It won't rank as one of the "Top 100" of my life, but I did enjoy this book.
Het eerste deel van dit boek is bijna een soort Pietje Bell In De Eerste Wereldoorlog, met een aaneenschakeling van anekdotes en onwaarschijnlijke gebeurtenissen. Daardoor komt het tweede deel, dat in de loopgraven speelt, harder aan. De ledematen vliegen je ineens om de oren en er valt zeer weinig te lachen. Het derde deel, dat de terugtocht beschrijft, is weer luchtiger.Toch raakte het boek me niet echt. Misschien omdat het eerste en het derde deel zo onwerkelijk zijn. Het is triest dat de schrijver in grote problemen is gekomen door dit boek, maar daar wordt het verhaal niet beter van.
Een schelmenroman in de lijn van "De lotgevallen van de brave soldaat Švejk". Hij biedt een levendige kijk op het dagelijks leven in de rangen van het Duitse leger, maar vooral in het achterland. De verschrikkingen van de loopgraven komen veel minder naar voor dan bij Remarque - wat volgens mij het verschil in commercieel succes destijds verklaart.
Schlump marches off to fight in WWI for all the wrong reasons. But, once in the foray, he matures and quickly realizes that war is not fun. Not fun at all. Rather, a really, really horrific experience.I read this EARC courtesy of NYRB Classics and Edelweiss. Pub date 11/15/16
'Er glaubte mit einer herrlichen Gewissheit, daß letzten Endes alles gut werden würde.'
