https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80007.An_Experiment_in_Criticism
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Cultural Chicken Soup for the Soul:"An Experiment in Criticism" by C.
S. Lewis"Literary experience heals the wound, without undermining the privilege, of individuality.
All the best writers are anarcho-punks: -          JJ Rousseau: A Discourse On Inequality-          Thomas Payne: The Rights Of Man-          Mary Wollstonecraft: A Vindication of the Rights of Women-          Victor Hugo 'Les Miserables' set in the French Revolution in Paris.
Two of the writers went mad from this sadist act, but Dostoevsky kept on writing about being on death row, psychological torture, his time in jail and did so for the rest of his life.
If you're into literary criticism, read on.
"Um verdadeiro amante da literatura devia ser de certo modo como um examinador honesto, preparado para dar a nota mais alta a uma exposição completa, apropriada e bem documentada de ideias das quais não compartilha ou que inclusive abomina."Senhor Lewis, não lhe dou a nota mais alta porque, ou não sou uma verdadeira amante da literatura, ou não sou uma examinadora honesta.
Para mim, os meus próprios olhos não são suficientes, quero ver através dos olhos de outras pessoas.
O homem só está a constatar uma realidade e a ter coragem de a dizer."(*) Essa pessoa minha conhecida tem uma relação com a arte muito peculiar.
Any book that motivates a reader to want to reread it is then a work of art regardless of label or genre.
After all, reading fiction is about transposing myself into the shoes of the different characters and seeing the world through their eyes – whether it is the world governed by the laws of nature as we know them, or otherwise – and to experience the magical journey the writer wishes to impart through these characters.I do not approach a work of fiction with the expectation of learning a universal truth or discovering a new culture, nor do I read as a source of escapism.
In a lot of ways this is a proto-text for Reader Response theory, with Lewis exploring why making a distinction between what is "good" literature and what is "bad" literature is less important than analyzing the person reading it (which he breaks into the "literary" and "unliterary").
Of course the whole thing comes off now as inescapably antiquated (particularly in the way he has no problems making clean-cut categorizations), but around every corner he comes up with unexpected surprises, often laced with a devilishly dry British wit--a spirited defense of Modernist poetry for instance, or perhaps a shrewd dissection of literary fashions ("dethronments and restorations" of literary reputations are "almost monthly events").But the penultimate chapter ("The Experiment") is the most striking of all, particularly in his cautioning against "Vigilant criticism"--which I take as being social theory which was just beginnings its rise to ascendency around the time this was published.
If you haven't read anything on literary criticism, this little book by C.S. Lewis will open your mind to a whole new world -- the world of the text, and it well-read.
In other words, some people read books seeking only to find a world they already are comfortable with and understand; a world they already have categories for and can explain.
By reading books in such a way, such readers are not challenged by what they read.
This is an entirely different kind of reading and leads to an additive gain in knowledge on the part of the reader.
"But in reading great literature I become a thousand men and yet remain myself"C.S. Lewis, 'An Experiment in Criticism', (p.141)"Those of us who have been true readers all our life seldom fully realise the enormous extension of our being which we owe to authors. We realise it best when we talk with an unliterary friend. He may be full of goodness and good sense but he inhabits a tiny world. In it, we should be suffocated. The man who is contented to be only himself, and therefore less a self, is in prison." (p.140)
Yup. I liked it. Like most of Lewis' books, he says more in 140 pages than most do in 300. But I suppose he also looks deeply into little to produce much. When most are raking leaves and combing grass, Lewis is 20 feet deep and analyzing roots.
Great. And finished yet another time in November of 2017.
I could listen to Professor Lewis talk about books for hours.
Lewis presents the argument that rather than judging books, we should judge readers or HOW the book is read.
His arguments are succinct and well-organized.
However, at the end of the book, I saw that Lewis was mostly correct and that by opening myself up to some of the criticisms, the art of reading was refined for me.
As I care very much about reading, I found this to be very valuable.
If the reader can truly "get himself out of the way", as Lewis suggests, there are many gems to be found in this book.
There are elements of this book that I really enjoyed, but there were also a great many parts in which I felt like a freshman in a doctoral level class.I can't say that I fully grasp all aspects of his argument. The parts that I did understand, however, where interesting. I definitely need to revisit this.
Either way, here we "use" the book for our own ends.In other words, if you read a classic book like Crime and Punishment or Moby Dick but only do so to check it off the list, you don't get any credit, in Lewis' book.
There may be people out there who read all the wrong books in all the right ways.
Another thing Lewis said that was challenging was that if you try to read all the right books you become subject to your culture.
One thing Lewis points out is those that read in the wrong way rarely reread.
Reading books in the right way demands a rereading.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, even though I realize that I probably don't have the categories in my mind (yet) to fully understand Lewis here.
Lewis says, "We love to hear exactly how others enjoy what we enjoy ourselves." This explains why it is so much fun to read what critics or bloggers or other Goodreads reviewers have to say about books.
And even though it is fun, we should be careful not to place too much stock in the writings of literary critics, according to Lewis.
Get yourself out of the way….The distinction can hardly be better expressed than by saying that the many use art and the few receive it.” After describing the reading habits of the “unliterary” (primarily and almost exclusively for narrative and “events”), Lewis discusses myth and fantasy (both literary and psychological) as well as realism.
But his characterizations and cautions are most apt and helpful.In his penultimate chapter, “The Experiment,” Lewis proceeds to complete his argument, first recapitulating: “Normally we judge men’s literary taste by the things they read.
One friend was pouring over a book written for Adolescents.
Now I'm not against books written for adolescents; well, actually most of them are tripe (feel free to correct me) but this one was especially tripe-y.
Another symptom between literary and unliterary readers is their discussion of the books they read.
Literary people think often to themselves about the books they read and discuss it with others.
Unliterary people "seldom think or talk of their reading." (pg.
En vez de emitir el juicio sobre la obra, él propone emitir el juicio sobre el lector y clasificarlo de lector malo o bueno.Según Lewis, los malos lectores son fácilmente identificables como aquellos que son volubles a la hora de tomar un libro y con la misma facilidad soltarlo.
Soy de las que piensan que una vez acabado el libro bueno tampoco regresas a ser el mismo.
Sadly, we'll never know.Lewis' radical proposition here is that it is as much the reader as the text which determines whether a book is "good" or "bad" literature, and the 140-odd pages he devotes to that theory provide (aside from fascinating reading) a wonderful defense of both popular literature and genre fiction.
His conviction that to truly experience literature we must surrender ourselves to it won't be a hard sell to anyone who reads a lot of poetry, but I can only imagine how his views on the uselessness of evaluative criticism went over with book reviewers of the day.Thoughtful, provocative, and sure to be one in the eye to almost any university's literature program.
Praise for the book. Here's a (long) list of all of the references to other works. See Plodcast, Episode #24: great books are the books that the people you admire read.
“An unliterary man may be defined as one who reads books once only. . . . We do not enjoy a story fully at the first reading. Not till the curiosity, the sheer narrative lust, has been given its sop and laid asleep, are we at leisure to savour the real beauties. Till then, it is like wasting great wine on a ravenous natural thirst which merely wants cold wetness.” (C.S. Lewis)
How do we consider literature and reading as an activity?
I love Lewis's insistence that we must enter in before we can even voice objections or criticism.
The ending is so lovely: "Here, as in worship, in love, in moral action, and in knowing, I transcend myself; and am never more myself than when I do." I was just thinking today about how you can identify a kindred spirit by someone who can answer with enthusiasm when you ask what they're reading.
How can people NOT read?!?
Lewis's book gives us a great opportunity to think more closely about what we do usually without consideration.
What if, instead of judging people by the books they read, we judge the books by the way people read them?
One thing's for sure, I'm wrestling with things like writing Goodreads reviews after reading this book!
Lewis spends much of the book developing his definitions and parameters, and at the end describes the experiment.
I got enough out of it to know I want to re-read it, and not before too long.
And I also know that the next time anyone asks which author I'd like to have dinner with, I will choose Lewis, so we can talk about this.
A short answer to why read, according to C.S. Lewis, is that the process itself a hedonistic pleasure and that suggests that it is "good".
"Good" for Lewis does not mean the subject matter is true or even logical but dependent on individual need and on approach.
Lewis seems to look down on other critics when he says of them, that they are “forced to talk incessantly about books,” and that they “try to make books into the sort of things they can talk about?” Lewis says that this approach is one that just imposes an opinion on the reader.
I realize this book was written 50 years ago, but I still find passages like these simply unforgivable:"We have all known women who remembered a novel so dimly that they had to stand for half an hour in the library skimming through it before they were certain they had once read it.
. Those who read great works, on the other hand, will read the same work ten, twenty or thirty times during the course o their life.""And unhappily this topic can be almost fully treated without mentioning poetry, for the unliterary hardly read it at all.
"Those of us who have been true readers all our life seldom fully realize the enormous extension of our being which we owe to authors.
We realize it best when we talk with an unliterary friend.
He may be full of goodness and good sense but he inhabits a tiny world.
In it, we should be suffocated.
My own eyes are not enough for me, I will see through those of others .
Like the night sky in a Greek poem, I see with a myriad eyes, but it still I who see.
Expressing his distaste for much of contemporary Literary Criticim, Lewis attempts an exploration of what reading is, what it does, and why literature should be given back to the readers.
I found that similar to Jacobs, Lewis focuses on the act of reading itself.
Though most of his argument focuses on the act of reading as a way to judge the value of books, he also says that readers must approach literature with the intent of reading it as if it were good literature in order to see if it will permit a good reading.
In Lewis, I found the seed of an argument that developed and bloomed in Jacobs.
Although parts of the book felt slow, the epilogue made it all worth it, and I hope to return to this book someday. In the meantime, Lewis's words about literature will be kept in mind as I read, especially since I've been trying to make peace with the fact that I'll just never get to all the books and re-readings that I'd like to.
I think this may be the first book of literary criticism I've read, and I only picked it up because I'm at the beginning of what feels like a bit of a C.S. Lewis binge (his biography 'Surprised by Joy' is by my elbow as I write this).'An Experiment in Criticism' is just that - a lengthy essay in which Lewis tests out a different way of writing about books, and in particular, distinguishing good books from bad.
Wonderful. Anybody who loves reading should become intimately familiar with this book. Full of gems tied together with a tight thesis about what constitutes right reading.
I think his basic distinction is more correct -- that the "unliterary" reader reads for the story, the narrative, only, to find out "what happens", where the "literary" reader looks more at how the story is told, focuses more on the "style" of the narration.
In justifying non-realistic writing against those who consider realism the only good type of literature (probably a strawman in any case) Lewis says, "if we do that, we shall have against us the literary practice and experience of nearly the whole human race.
I also liked the way Lewis points out how present-day teaching of English Literature in the schools encourages precisely the "unliterary" style of reading.
