https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/344189.Where_s_Waldo_
I wish Werner Herzog would write a book like this. But this would be hard to top.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EvWh6...
I knew the concept of the Where's Waldo books, but until my son got interested in them, I didn't know much about them.
Searching for Waldo on every page is a self-challenge that makes you push for your personal best; when you can't find him, you do not give up.
Long after my son loses interest and goes to play his Lego Star Wars game, my husband and I lie on the bed, each taking a side of the book, competing to see who can find Waldo, Wenda, Odlaw, the Wizard, the dog's tail, and Waldo's tiny possessions.
Where's Wally (Waldo?) has always struck me as a metaphor for... Oh fuck it... How can someone wearing such ridiculous clothing be so hard to find!!! And when you finally do, you can't lose him again, he's just always there, on the page... Invading your darkest thoughts... Hiding in the bushes beind you when you walk home in the dark... And why do people insist on putting a circle around him when they read it in the doctor's surgery!?! THAT DEFEATS THE WHOLE POINT, JERKS!!! Oh dear... I must lie down now.
I used to find these books endlessly fascinating as a child, especially the more odd and mystical elements.
Of course, what I liked most was the frantic detail.
There were entire stories laid out in these pictures, and no doubt they helped me to question how much meaning and action one could put into a single image.In high school, I made a short series of my own called The Necro Files (ha ha, aren't sixteen year-olds funny?).
It would feature a different odd locale (Atlantis, a circus) and then all of my different friends and acquaintances being killed by themed characters.
The theme of each character was the method by which they would inflict death upon you.
Like the Penguin book down below, many people feel like I either look like Waldo, or worst, I am Waldo. I often take the bus, and I try to avoid bus transportation during school hours - because the kids love to say 'Hey I just found Waldo!" It's get tiresome after awhile.And on top of that I can never find Waldo in these pictures. I have to ask my neighborhood kid on the block where Waldo is. And you know they usually say ' hey he's right in front of me.' Meaning .... me of course.
5 starsVery good book. One of my favorite book series as a kid.
I liked this book first time around, but persistent re-reads by my youngest daughter meant that my enjoyment of, and patience with, the book, did not last long.I found it remarkable that at age 4 she could remember every half-promise or insinuation of a promise ever mad by myself, my wife, her grandparents and her elder sister....
she could also remember every word [parrot-fashion] in every book that we read together....
but do you think she could remember where sodding Wally was?
No...not on your life!
So we had to go through the charade of looking for him...
Where's Wally?To be honest...
Lo que me divertía con los libros de Wally no tiene nombre xD

Where's Waldo is an iconic search and find activity book that has been entertaining people for 30 years.
This 30th Special Anniversary Edition would make a great gift for those fans of Waldo or search and finds in general.My parents shared Where's Waldo with me and I had fun passing it on to my daughter.
It gave the "Where's Waldo Around the World" feel.Final Verdict: I would recommend this book to all Waldo fans and fans of search and finds.
This special 30th anniversary edition is one that should be added to any Waldo collection.
The Waldo books actually are about a man's ability to both engage with and disappear into the body politic.
And the guy keeps movin'.
Movin' along; a moving target; perfecting those chameleon skills of disappearance that will serve him so well when he becomes a politician so he can shield himself from real people and real issues and hide in that bubble of special interests.
Where's Waldo?
He's so damned hard to find.OK, maybe Waldo isn't about any of that.
I do know he provided hours of fun back in the day when my kids were l'il guys.(KevinR@Ky 2016, rewritten entirely, simply for my amusement)
When doing a little research on ALA's banned books, surprisingly enough, Where's Waldo came up.
After doing a little research, I found that earlier versions of Where's Waldo featured a topless sunbather on one of the pages, and there were complaints made.
This reemphasized the point in the Censorship PowerPoint that really any book can be challenged/banned.I believe Where's Waldo is a useful book because it teaches kids to pay attention to details, because they might miss something.
There isn't a real story line, but this book is useful with teaching observations techniques.

A little to much for me... Although it most be very fun to read this with your kids. The kids will probably love it.
ISPY-Han
A fun puzzle book of trying to find Waldo - the man in the white and red striped shirt.
The question that changed my life and will never leave my dreams and my waking hours.
One day, Waldo should wear something different and really fuck everyone up.
A classic! How could you not love trying to find Waldo?
Riveting. Basically, the plot is that Waldo is missing and it's up to me to find him.
is a series of picture books following a man named Waldo who likes to hide in obvious areas.
The goal of these books is to find Waldo, (hence the title) which is a very fun game for kids.
It is fun and games for kids of all ages!
However, there is a theory called The Mandela Effect which basically means you have experienced events in an alternate reality.
Of course this is just a theory, but the Where's Waldo?
which is the exact same series of books, just under a different name.
Legend has it that we have experienced The Mandela Effect in Where's Waldo.
I just read the book, Where’s Waldo?
The whole concept of the picture book is to find Waldo throughout its pages.
The book has cramped, comedic, and wacky scenes, so it makes it difficult to find Waldo, the character with a striped sweater and hat.
This book was banned because one of the pages had a topless female sunbather on one of the pages.
Well, needless to say, I’m upset because I cannot find the topless woman, nor can I find Waldo.
I would not have a problem having this book in a classroom as a free read, because the odds of the students finding the sunbather are low.
Where's Waldo was a book where Waldo is hidden on every page and you have to find him.
Waldo is on every page he just isn't the easiest person to find, but there are funny pictures on each page.This book will keep children entertained and looking for Waldo, as well as give children new ideas for hiding and seeking.
This book has some interesting sites that are visited, but they might all mean something to Waldo.
This book is controversial because there is a picture of Waldo hiding on the beach and there are a few topless woman on that page.
This over-sized picture book takes the reader on a scavenger hunt for specific list of items. Each page uses a fold-out sleeve to provide an easy reference to be checked off as they are located. The book will provide hours and hours of enjoyment, again and again.
We used the deluxe edition.
Self-explanatory.
You can't underestimate the impact this book had when it first came out.
This was a lot easier as an adult then I remember as a child. Still a classic though.
Love where's wall. Fun for kids and adults, finding all the characters, items and then bonus items. Hours of fun.
Introduced the boy to a childhood favorite of mine this weekend. Hours of fun already!!! He’s hooked!
