https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595538.Roseanna
Her body is fished out of Lake Vattern, and though the case belongs to a small town police district in Motala, due to the nature of the crime, a team of detectives including Beck are sent to assist.
Henning Mankell wrote the introduction and he probably should be sending Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo a royalty check for each new Kurt Wallander book or movie deal because Kurt Wallander is without a doubt based off of the character Martin Beck.
Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo were a common law marriage team that wrote ten Martin Beck novels.
First in the series and the best .....
Just thought I’d get that out of the way right off the bat.This was published in 1965 and was the first in a series of ten books about Swedish police investigator Martin Beck.
This has an interesting introduction by the Swedish crime writer Henning Mankell who recounts reading this as a teenager and being hugely influenced by it, and that makes sense considering that his creation Wallander almost seems like a direct descendent of Beck.
It seems to be a forerunner to a lot of the Swedish crime fiction that has gotten so popular in America lately.I liked the realistic depiction of an overworked and sickly detective with an unsatisfying home life patiently working his way through an investigation.
This is sort of like a police procedural version of John La Carre's Smiley novels.
They aren't jargon littered like Le Carre's novels but the hero, Martin Beck, is sort of a non-traditional hero of the same ilk of George Smiley.
I have a soft spot for people who go through life feeling resigned and depressed but are actually really good at what they do, for example my favorite fighter comes across that way in almost every picture you see of him where he isn't eating ice cream.
The clarity of the writing and translation held me in thrall. In Henning Mankell's introduction to the reprint out in late 2008, he mentions that this husband and wife team inspired the new breed of police procedurals by the greats we read now. The view of the cop as a flawed individual with physical and personal issues was a new concept when they began. The slow, solid build-up of tension in Roseanna was so subtle that the denoument, when it came, had me actually gasping for breath. A resounding five stars for this series.
When I finished Roseanna again last night I thought I should write a review talking about how rare it is for me to reread a book, and how Sjöwall & Wahloo have conjured something exceptional from me as a reader.
They wrote ten books in their Martin Beck series, and it struck me that it is one of the only series I've read (apart from Lord of the Rings) where the authors had the entire series mapped out before they started.I decided to test that theory by actually reading Roseanna (rather than listening), and it appears that I was correct.
I gave this book four stars when I first read it, but loved it enough to pass it on to a good friend (she loved it too).
I liked it a lot.
Very Scandinavian.
I say this because (like other Scandinavian books) they treat crime as something done by insane people who are to be pitied, not loathed or hated.
They also are very methodical and relentless in their pursuit of criminals.
This took place in the sixties, and that was very interesting.
Since the villain is a rapist and murderer, some things get disgusting at times.
Not description-wise, the Scandinavians are very good at being dry and vague, but police interviewing (normal) people about their private sexual lives and setting up a policewoman as bait for the rapist/murderer.
There's a strong sense of patience and time in Roseanna, as in Sjowall & Wahloo's The Laughing Policeman.
I like the reality of long stretches of time, the deliberate treatment of procedural details that, instead of being tedious, give a heightened sense of reality and show the painstaking tenacity of the police at work.
It all seems more human somehow than the (usually American) drama of solving the case overnight and then swooping in in the nick of time and and nabbing the (usually serial) killer.There's also a strange sense of calm and lots of sitting and sleeping and waiting.
More likely Mankell recognizes the influence it had on him as a young reader and the enduring quality of the themes presented in Roseanna.One of the reasons I think this story has endured is its realism and no frills writing style - a cold enumeration of facts and great dialogue that suggest rather than declame the human hearts behind the investigation.
And the resolution will come not from the armchair deductions puffing a pipe or from a shootout, but the from the slow accumulation of facts and a lot of gumshoe.
Passados 50 anos a história de “Roseanna” mantém-se actual e a escrita da dupla Per Wahlöö e Maj Sjöwall permanece intemporal, uma leitura cativante, em que facilmente se percebe a influência numa geração recente de escritores policiais escandinavos, com destaque para Henning Mankell que escreve o prefácio da edição que li.Em Portugal no início dos anos 90 foram editados pela Editorial Caminho, na colecção Caminho de Bolso Policial (que alternava com a publicação de livros de Ficção Científica) os livros: “O Homem que Se Desfez em Fumo” (1966), “O Homem À Varanda” (1967), “O Polícia Que Ri” (1968), “Desapareceu um Carro de Bombeiros” (1969) e “O Homem Abominável” (1971).
In the end we have to trust that the detective knows more than we do as it all hinges on his intuition upon meeting the suspect and in doing so the denouement is slightly less rewarding than if it was some vital clue that nail the murdering psychopath that his constant dilligence had finally dug up but it is then buried by the following relentless tension as Beck and his team lay a trap that you desperately hope will succeed.In the P.S. section of this publication Richard Shephard refers to the writing style as literature verite, the first time I have seen the phrase used and I think I will cling to it tightly from here on out.
Δε νομίζω πως έχω συναντήσει άλλη περίπτωση που στο ίδιο πλάνο να μη δίνεται η εντύπωση του καρέ, αλλά της ταυτόχρονης παράστασης και οι συγγραφείς δίνουν ρέστα καθώς χειρίζονται τόσους ανθρώπους μαζί.
Με αυτό εννοώ πως όταν το παρήγγειλα δε γνώριζα την υπόθεση του, αλλά το πρώτο και κύριο που μου έκανε εντύπωση είναι πως τα Γράμματα ανήκουν σ’ εκείνη την ελίτ, που εγώ τουλάχιστον δίνω προσοχή.Δυο μόνο παρατυπίες εντόπισα, εκ των οποίων η μια είναι ασήμαντη: ‘Όταν ο Μπεκ διαβάζει στο γραφείο του τις καταθέσεις έχει κλειδώσει το γραφείο του και κατόπιν σηκώνεται να φορέσει το σακάκι του και … κλειδώνει την πόρτα.Η δεύτερη είναι αρκετά σημαντικότερη και δείχνει ανακολουθία ή αδυναμία των συγγραφέων να χειριστούν τον ορισμό του κοινωνιοπαθούς, με αποτέλεσμα τα μοτίβα ή ακόμη και το αποτέλεσμα της τελικής ανάκρισης να ταιριάζουν καλύτερα με άλλα μοτίβα.
Rather than give these other policemen names, Sjowell and Wahloo may as well have just called them Officer A and officer B.This is a truly Scandinavian crime novel.Life is bleak, horrible things happen and there seems to be no escape from it.
And so this detective, who is one of life’s questioners, starts to question the world all over again and when he finds the answer he’s looking for, it doesn’t seem to give him any satisfaction at all.Again, this is a very Scandinavian crime novel.And in the background is an American cop with the unlikely name of Kafka.
Book ReviewMaj Sjöwall and Per WahlööWith an introduction by Henning Mankell (he of the famous Kurt Wallander series) and writes:"I have a strong and indisputable memory that back then I thought of the novel as straightforward and clear, a convincing story presented in an equally convincing form.
Whether or not that view remains in place as I read both the Martin Beck and Kurt Wallander series, remains to be seen.Enjoy!--------------------------------------------------------------Series ReviewTwo writers from the left, without too much argument, started it all where it concerns crime fiction in Scandinavia (the books were written in the sixties).
"Roman om ett brott" = "Novel about a crime" in original (Swedish) editions) is a great 60's Swedish crime mystery.
At times slow moving and with a tinge of melancholy feeling (like all the 10 books, don't let it put you off though!
In this short format and really good narrative, giving the passages more of a bittersweet than dreary feeling, it works beautifully!).
Great, true feeling characters and an unsurpassed ability to make the story feel both real and realistic.
I recommend the whole series and certainly this book, which is one of the best.
Widely recognised as a groundbreaking series, the novels which feature Martin Beck of the Swedish Homicide Bureau have been credited with influencing the thought processes of the generations to come and with an introduction by Henning Mankell there could be no finer testimony.
Time plays a central role in Roseanna as Martin Beck is called from Stockholm to shed some light on the young female whose body has been dredged from the Göta canal in the Swedish city of Motala.
The Swedish-noir (Swedish-svart?) family tree runs just so: Martin Beck (grandfather) → Kurt Wallander (father) → Mikael Blomkvist (son).Now I admit that my exposure to this family is limited by my North Americanism, by the translations that filter their way across the Atlantic, by the culture(s) that make(s) these works popular, but even if there are branches and roots of the tree that I can't see, the relationship between these stories is undeniable.So it feels to me like Martin Beck -- more specifically the first novel starring Martin Beck, RoseAnna -- is the progenitor of the big protagonists that came after.
Police procedurals are not my usual reading, but this was a book club assignment, and I'm a conscientious member, so I gave it a chance.
It was positively medieval!And that was the fun in this book, because I realized how dependent we've all become to instant news, when we have pictures and life histories of mass shooters 10 minutes after the killings, right there on the news channels that are always a click away.
A nice quick read when I'm in need of something just a little different.
If you like mysteries this is a book you should consider reading, and reading knowing as little as possible.I will say though that it is very well constructed and that it definitely rings true.And that it’s interesting as a point in the history of detective fiction as well as being a good book in its own right.And although the world has changed in the last forty years – modern communications would have had a huge impact on this investigation – this didn’t feel like a period piece.
Questa volta l'efferato omicidio a sfondo sessuale perpetrato ai danni di una sconosciuta sposta l'ispettore Beck, insieme ai suoi fidati Kollberg Stenstrom e Melander nella regione dei grandi laghi, tra Göteborg e Stoccolma.E' la Scandinavia delle distese sconfinate, dei cieli troppo ampi, dei laghi di acque cristalline (non oso pensare quanto fredde) dispersi tra foreste verdissime e percorsi da battelli old style.
Quello che purtroppo sembra essere una costante col passare dei decenni è il rapporto feroce e malato che troppi maschi hanno nei confronti del corpo delle donne, come ancora ci racconta troppo spesso la cronaca dei nostri giorni.Ero già convinto di leggere fino in fondo l'opera di Per Wahloo e Maj Sjowall che ha dato vita al personaggio di Martin Beck.
This is something that is really great, especially since this crime takes well over 7 months to solve and requires some help from different continents and uses some great investigative work (remember this book was written back in 1967 with no such things as the internet or cell phones were available!).
It takes almost 3 months before the first break in the case and after that things still move at a slow speed.
Cannot wait to read the next book in the series!
As this was my first read by this author/series, I did not know what to expect.
At first, the writing seemed simple and stilted, but I chalked that up to both the genre (do we really expect fine prose with crime/mystery?) and to the fact that it is translated.
The crime was brutal.
I thought these were better characterizations than I might have expected.
It has to be a very rare mystery for me to award five stars and I won't make an exception for this.
Still, it crosses the three-star threshold into four.
The the ten book series (set in Sweden) taken as a whole is an exciting, moving, real-life exploration of the lives of a team of cops and their ciminal investigations.
Sjowall and Wahloo, a husband-and-wife writing team (Sjowall died in 1975) use crime fiction as a way of talking about the inherent wickedness of the capitalist system, but politics isn't what the books are about: they're about crime, and justice, and heartbreak, and strength, and all the other things we read crime fiction for.
The novel never felt dated even though published in 1965. It is a police procedural that surprisingly felt very current with its sober, less than perfect police detective similar to (and maybe a forerunner of) the many investigators in contemporary whodunits.
Martin Beck and his colleagues undertake a long and frustrating investigation.
Through dedication, patience and attention to detail they seek to catch the killer.Solving the crime takes determination.
There are many times in the investigation where the work is not glamourous.
Engaging in costly long-term surviellance with no obvious outcome.
The other detectives have less depth, but develop their own idiosyncracies over time.Finding the killer takes team work.
The detectives work together on the case, no one person steals the show.
Although Beck is the main point of view, the other members of the team are crucial to the outcome.
roseanna is a melancholy novel: i felt sad for the victim, and sad for the detectives (especially martin beck - the titular detective of the series) investigating her death. as they sought to discover the mystery behind her death and found out more about her, i felt worse and worse. i think the novel tries to underscore the fact that people are complex, that they act and react as the result of their experience and predispositions. roseanna reminds us that pain comes to all, and it isn't really about just desserts.i'd give this here a 3.5
It was ok. A solid ok. Didn't love it but didn't hate it either.
As a result, the suspense lies in our wondering whether the police are going to be able to collaborate effectively and avoid getting their wires hopelessly crossed, never mind actually catch the culprit.The book concerns the hunt for the killer of a nameless corpse that is discovered during the dredging of a river, and at least half of the mystery lies in identifying the victim.Sjöwall and Wahlöö also set out to expose what they saw as the decadence of Swedish society, and their protagonist, Martin Beck, and his colleagues have a distinctly ambivalent attitude towards the society they strive to protect.
Resulta curioso que, a pesar de ser de 1965, el libro no ha envejecido y se lee perfectamente. Se echa de menos internet y los móviles, tan omnipresentes en cualquier novela de acción hoy en día, pero estamos ante un referente de la novela negra que sigue viva.Por cierto, hay una adaptación de The Laughing Policeman, dirigida por Stuart Rosenberg e interpretada por Walter Matthau en el papel de Martin Beck que puede estar interesante.Recomendable.

