https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60220.Simply_Irresistible
I started reading the book thinking I would not like it at all, but then ....
The heroine after getting the lowest she could go in life, decided to start making things right: gets a job and can finally say she's proud with what she became.
The hero finally stops drinking (he really had reasons for drinking, not blaming him for it) and became a really interesting character to read about.
for the most insignificant thing (which could have been easily resolved the very same day if they had wanted)and stay fighting and apart from almost all the book.That's what bothered me the most.
Maybe it was the sports (hockey) theme--which I thought came across as very authentic (the author must be a fan with all the name-dropping she did), or maybe it was the soap opera-ish plot that spanned 7 years and reminded me a little bit of Lisa Kleypas's Sugar Daddy, or maybe it was the snappy/sexy/funny dialogue and the love/hate relationship between the H/h...I didn't always like the hero (sexy hockey star John "The Wall" Kowalsky) who was often rude, crude, and disrespectful towards the heroine--voluptuous Seattle-by-way-of-Texas caterer Georgeanne Howard.
Re-read for me. Enjoyed it the second time around - hadn't really remembered the story from the first time reading it.I wonder do kids these days listen to the "old songs"? Every southern girl dreamed of being a beauty queen, and with very little effort, he'd made her feel like Miss Texas. Definitely a vibe of SEP. Not sure what the writing timeline is between Gibson and SEP but some similarities, in a good way.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here. I went through a chick-lit phrase during my first two years of college, during which time I devoured any book I could find as long as it had a pink cover. One of these books was called LOLA CARLYLE REVEALS ALL by Rachel Gibson. I barely remember what the book was about, only that the experience of reading it
It actually kind of reminds me of IT HAD TO BE YOU by Susan Elizabeth Phillips in many ways, which was another sports themed chick-lit/romance crossover book from the 1990s that I read recently and had issues with.Our heroine, Georgeanne, is a Texas belle engaged to be married to the manager of the Chinooks hockey team.
That said, I felt like Georgeanne was incredibly unfair to John about his daughter, especially when she pretty much refused to let him pay for insurance and tuition out of spite.
Georgeanne is 5'10" and weighs 140 pounds (and she's curvy, because you will hear numerous times about how large her fabulous boobs and butt are).
Loved this one! New author, new series, yay! It was a little dated, but then again, so am I.
Me ha gustado mucho, es el primer libro que leo de Rachel Gibson y ha sido un muy primer encuentro, 
I'm saying by some unknown force of the universe I'm bound to like a romantic novel where the heroine is a single mom.
Even when the heroine is a dimwit and has a penchant for masochism, because that's the only way I can explain why she keeps taking back that jerk of a hero.
Why would you want your child to be around someone like that?Maybe it would've been easier to forget his disrespectful manner if there was some real chemistry going on between them.
That's the only thing I liked in this book.If you're into single mom stories, read any other before this one.
You know what? I really enjoyed this one. I haven’t read a contemporary sports romance book in a very long time. The heroine and hero were great and little Lexie was adorable.Georgie was sweet but she was no push over. And John could be quite an ass but lovable nonetheless. I loved the chemistry between these two. Great story line too!I loved that this book turned back the clock for me. It is nice to read through old fashioned sex scenes every now and again. ❤
Re-read 04/11/2014Overall Rating = 4 StarsBook Cover / Book Blurb / Book Title = 4 / 4 / 4 = 4 StarsWriter’s Voice = 4 StarsCharacter Development = 3.5 StarsStory Appreciation = 4 StarsEnding = 4 StarsWorth the Chili = 5 Stars -- [$3.99 on Amazon]Smexy [HEAT] Rating = Moderate400 pagesNote: I don't change my original rating [in this case 3.5 Stars -- now 4 Stars], but this will give you and idea of my thoughts for the second read two years after the first and how much mood plays into your [my] enjoyment.This is a go to author for me.
John is a star hockey player for the team owned by Georgie's disappointed husband to was going to be.
With no family and no-where to go, she figures she can hide out at John's for a couple of days.
Since John doesn't want to risk his career and is battling his own personal demons, things don't work out after the first night and they part ways.
John is shocked to find Georgie in town.
He's really shocked to meet his daughter.
I spent half the book disliking Georgie for that reason alone.
I spent the other half thinking John were an ass.
By this time, she is a professionally charming (in the sense of having graduated from charm schools provided by her Grandmother) and when John first meets her she's desperate and trained to think of men as the way to security.
Her desperation and his need for intimacy interacted poorly, even as it was something they both needed at the time.Where Gibson really shines in this story is investing Georgeanne with all the charm her background indicates.
Six year-olds are tough to get right and I thought Gibson did a great job making her demanding and engaging and willful and easily distracted without being merely a convenient driver of plot.
I was expecting a sugary, sweet concoction.
This continued for a good chunk of the book.
He suffered from the same affliction as Georgie: FEAR OF PAIN AND HURT.The first half of the book deals with her reluctance to follow through with a marriage to a man old enough to be her grandfather.
An add in a newspaper changes her life, as well as that one night with John.Fast forward several years later and she's a different woman.
A chance meeting at an event Georgie is catering finds her staring up into the eyes of the man that changed her life forever.
En realidad un 4'5, es difícil que un libro sea perfecto, y aunque tenga sus costillas, en general es un libro que he disfrutado y me ha encantado desde la primera página.Es el primer libro que leo de Rachel Gibson y he quedado muy satisfecha.
Es un libro rápido de leer que engancha en seguida, una historia original con unos protagonistas muy humanos, él es un hombre solitario y con miedo a amar, y ella es una chica deseosa de amar y ser correspondida.
Simply Irresistible3.5 StarsEscaping her wedding to a much older man, Georgeanne Howard runs into hockey star John Kowalsky, who reluctantly and unknowingly, helps his boss's bride make her getaway.
Can these two overcome their anger and resentment to find happiness together?Despite the fact that neither the hero nor the heroine are particularly likeable characters, their romance works for some reason.
The secondary romance between Mae and Hugh is much more engaging, and there are some wonderfully sweet and funny moments between John and his daughter.
She hitches a ride with professional hockey player John Kowalsky who is surprised to find out he has picked up his boss's runaway bride.
After spending a memorable night together, Georgie and John meet again seven years later.
This time John discovers that Georgie has been keeping a secret from him...a daughter she never told him about.This is the first book in Rachel Gibson's Chinooks Hockey Team series.
I had a problem with both John and Georgeanne in this story.
The scenes of her and John getting to know each other are priceless.
Thankfully the series gets better.
Tam da ihtiyacım olan kitapmış. Son zamanlar da böyle çerezlik diyebileceğim aşk kitaplarına maalesef rastlayamıyorum. Bu yüzden okuduğum kitapların arasına bu seriyi sıkıştırarak doğru karar vermişim.Keyfimi yerine getirdi ya gerisi boş.Severek okudum.
Entretenido. Ha sido una lectura agradable pero sin mucho más. He acabado un poco harta de las escandalosas tetas de Georgie y de los "Jesús" que iba soltando John a cada rato. Lo mejor, la relación con la niña, Lexie. Y el final que también me pareció bonito.
So I read the blurb, it intrigued me and I decided to jump over to Amazon and see how much it was.
Well, to my surprise I already owned this book, I got it on November 2, 2012.
The constant misuse of hyphens aside, the characters were all so likeable and story line was engaging and so easy to slip into, I gobbled up this book.
I'm so glad I decided to look into this one and to already have it was like a little gift to myself.
This was her first book ever published I think, and it does have a few quirks that I think could have been a little better, or some smoothing out with the flow in some parts, but overall they were very easy for me to overlook because I really liked everything else going on.A few things I'd have liked to seen:* Instead of going all the way back to 1976, and then to 1989, maybe smacking them together somehow, as in a flashback or a memory.
I originally read this book in 2013 and loved it. I did a re-read today and it was just as good the second time around. I love a (view spoiler)[ secret baby! (hide spoiler)] story!
It made story more charming that author convinced me to relate with the heroine and understood her hesitations and dilemmas.Imo, it was very intense and very well developed CR which is very hard to find in recent years.
Although they were quite good too, this one is the best for me.I was curious about author's recent developments and immediately checked reviews some of them with a big hope and eagerness.
I hope, she will regain her ability to create such stories that make the reader want to savor every moment of them.
This is one of my all time favorite Gibson books.
I adore John and Georgie both.The heroine isn't shown in a very flattering light at the beginning of the novel.
Because of the way she was raised the reader can really relate to her, even though it doesn't seem like it in the beginning.John has his own demons to face.
He drinks too much in the beginning, and is selfish and rude a lot of the time.
He puts his life back together and deals with his issues as best he can.
This is Gibson at her best.
He was an ass to start with and I hated how he took advantage of Georgeanne, then dumped her at the airport.
The funny thing was that he knew what she was doing, but he still couldn't help herself.I felt like John kept playing Georgeanne once he came back into her life.
I thought that Georgeanne had some valid arguments.
Even with all of that I was happy to see things ended.I really liked the side romance with Mae and Hugh.
Loved the smack down that Hugh gave Mae's date!I look forward to reading more in this series.
This is the first romance I've read where the female has dyslexia. Its actually pretty common in romance novels for the male lead to have dyslexia and he overcomes it, but its something different for a female to have learning troubles. I laughed so much while reading this book and gained a new lame joke.
4.5 starsThis book was nothing special,but still i couldn't put it down.I really enjoyed it.
I started reading romance novels about the same time Rachel Gibson started publishing them.
When I saw there was to be a new audiobook of this beloved story that I had very tender feelings for, I was a little afraid to test my memory and see if my love was still strong.
There are narrators who could have punched it up, but the the story is most important here and Early didn't really add to or detract from it.See my audiobook reviews at Blue Moonhttp://saschakeet.wordpress.com/
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
En contra de mi voluntad debo decir que me gustó. La historia esta muy bien narrada. Pero considero que los protagonistas son dos inmaduros que me pusieron de los nervios con tanta indecisión.
I loved the first half but found myself anxiously waiting for some big moments that didn't really happen. It felt a little unfinished during certain parts.
Hace años que tengo este libro pendiente de leer y es que aunque lo empecé, no me estaba gustando nada y lo dejé en stand bueno hasta hace poco que decidí retomarlo de nuevo. En esta segunda ocasión he de confesar que tampoco me estaba gustando demasiado, pero decidí seguir en vez de abandonar y al final me ha terminado gustando mucho. Mi favorito de la autora sigue siendo Jane juega y gana pero en este Lexie me ha ganado por completo.
