https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39506.The_Burglar_Who_Liked_to_Quote_Kipling
He’ll need all of his criminal skills and some help from his best friend Carolyn to get out of this one.As I’ve stated on other reviews I’m a huge fan of Lawrence Block, but this series wasn’t my favorite thing he’s done although I quite enjoyed The Burglar Who Counted the Spoons.
Their friendship is one of the things I’ve most enjoyed about the series.Overall, it’s a solid mystery with a good sense of humor, and Block always makes a character just trying to navigate the treacherous waters of daily life in New York City a treat to read.
The Bernie Rhodenbarr series remains an unusual series since the main character is an unapologetic burglar who doesn't lose sleep over swiping some valuables.
This time Bernie is behind the front of a used bookstore he wants to succeed with, but he's drawn into a shady deal against his better judgement when conned into a valuable book deal of all things.
This is an enjoyable fun read.
Beside the plot, of a stolen book, that may or may not be rare, Mr. Block drops references to other books his protagonist has in his shop and authors he enjoys, the customers who come into his shop to either buy or steal his offerings.The book was written in 1979 so some of the prices of books are quite a bit dated, but Mr. Block's humor still stands up, especially humorous is the ongoing gag about a Pontiac the burglar steals to drive around the city.This is the third book in the series and can be read out of sequence without any major difficulty.
Very enjoyable and entertaining. Easy to see why Lawrence Block is such a popular author!
Bernie Rhodenbarr is a master burglar with a good heart.
I'd say that put's Block well ahead of public opinion at the time.Bernie is a full time second hand bookstore owner but as part time burglar is contracted to purloin a very rare Kipling book from a personal library.
With the help of Carolyn, Bernie sets about trying to figure out who is doing what and why.This is a good old fashioned whodunit mystery, light on the violence and not a naked body in sight.There are lots of red herrings to keep you guessing and the humour lasts right to the last page.If you are looking for a good read without the gore, blood and sex this will be right up your ally.An entertaining read with a 4 star recommendation.
Comprising a gentle dose of humor deftly mixed in the world of professional thievery, Lawrence Block's Bernie Rhodenbarr series is a lighter shade of crime fiction which also caters to those readers who like tension and a constant threat of violence on the horizon.
From that point forward, THE BURGLAR WHO LIKED TO QUOTE KIPLING is very much a classic whodunit as suspects fall and others emerge.
Additionally, THE BURGLAR WHO LIKED TO QUOTE KIPLING is the third book in the Bernie Rhodenbarr series and is new-reader-friendly, another tick in my book.
Bernie the Burglar has retired.
Don't we all dream of that kind of retirement?
Only Bernie isn't pushing the business as much as he might, Bernie is still keeping his fingers gloved and on the look out for something fun to burgle.
Enter a Rudyard Kipling enthusiast with a decidedly juicy proposition and Bernie's burglar tools are packed and ready to go, breathing holes cut in the palms of his rubber gloves.The format is much as previous (and almost certainly future) instalments, Bernie finds himself in a jam, on the run from the police with only his wits able to save him from clink and a even worse, not getting paid for his work.
Reasons this book was boring:1.
The police doesn't use Bernie Rhodenbarr as a murder-detector yet - despite his tendency to stumble onto fresh or about-to-happen murder scenes.2.
All characters we already know (except Bernie and the cop) are discarded for a new cast, so Bernie can continue to have no developing relationships whatsoever.3.
The murder clues can be deciphered by nobody but Bernie while I give a damn, then the solutions are thrown at me when I no longer care.4.
I'm not sure what the fourth reason is, it's already been a day since I read it and it's such a memorable novel that the details are starting to fade...
fun reading. delightful
I then jokingly grumpy-yelled at him that he needed to go and find me a book to read and that he should be aware that the state of our relationship depended on his choice.
Now honestly I find that quite impressive because often when I read older books, I find them filled with cliches.
Just something easy to read over a couple of days before moving onto something a little more taxing, perhaps?
I love how flippantly it is treated, like it was no biggie for those days.
The plot got so convoluted that even the suspects were expressing confusion -- Block's puckish nod that his own story had gotten away from him? Regardless, still a fun read that succeeds more on Rhodenbarr's character than suspenseful plot, though there us enough of that to keep you guessing.The dialogue, especially that with gay, dog-groomer pal, echoes wittier side of Block's Matthew Scudder. Carolyn was a delightful and substantial side-kick who added much to story.A must-read for Kipling completists? Sure, why not. Block had me going about the alleged long-lost Kipling book.
I’ve just about read all the books in this series (this one is only #3 but I haven’t been reading them in order) and I can say that they are uniformly entertaining. Block employs his gifts for dialogue and humor to excellent effect in every one of the Burglar novels. It may not, on a fundamental level, make any sense for a burglar to be put into situations where he has to solve murders on a regular basis, but these books are so much fun I don’t care.
Book 3 in the Bernie Rhodenbarr series.
This is the second in series I have read.
Despite the main character's on-again/off-again profession as a talented burglar, Block is able to make Bernie likable and sympathetic.
The tone of Block's books are humorous and lighthearted.
Bernie finds himself in serious scrapes resulting from his life of crime - such as becoming a murder suspect (more than once).
A bright and literate burglar, he manages with the help of friends he develops along the way (including cops), to solve the crime and keep himself from going to prison for the crime of which he is innocent (murder) while not being arrested for the crime he did commit (burglary).
I'm on a "The Burgler Who..." binge. Bernie is a fun protagonist, the books are just fun to read. If you have a problem with moral ambiguity (he IS a burglar), you might have a problem with these books, but the adept burglar who keeps stumbling over bodies, his lesbian best friend Carolyn, and "the best cop money can buy" are just fun to hang out with.
Like eating a box of Dove bars while you're supposed to be on a diet. Not much nutritional value but sure is fun.
Our dear gentleman burglar tries to go straight in this book (well sort of) as he sets up shop as the owner of an antiquarian bookstore.
Unfortunately, he couldn't resist stealing a rare Kipling edition and equally unfortunately, in doing so, he was once again framed for murder.
I agree with everything he says but it's just ironic coming from a burglar Hahaha!Oh one other note about Bernie's character: in this book he had to steal a car for a burglary but on his way to put the car back, he filled it with gas and got the oil changed.
Nice burglar!
I love a quick read, and I love good crime that demonstrates an author's grasp of history. Block puts enough real or potentially real stuff in to create interest in an unsurprising conclusion. I feel the Block template has periods where you know he is withholding information because disclosing it would mess with the summing up. The ending is very Agatha, but why not, the formula works. I like Blocks descriptions and the effortless pace. Romance for men.
This was my favorite book of the series so far,funnier then ever with lines like“Wonderful. I can play it safe by sitting in a stolen car parked at a bus stop. Why don’t I just wait in the subway? I could cling to the third rail for security.”Fictional Kipling poems " The Deliverance of Fort Bucklow" drives the story but it's all Bernie and Carolyn thatdrive the fun with excellent dialogue and a complicated mystery just perfect for a book lover.
This was a wonderful read !!!
Ha sido entretenido y el más ameno de los que he leído de esta saga.
Following the pattern laid down by our forefathers in the late 18th century, Mr. Block gives us another installment in clever writing and plotting.
For some reason I jumbled up the order reading this story after a much later one ("The Burglar Who Studied Spinoza").In a way it was a lucky thing as it confirmed my feeling that as good as the early books are I find myself liking that later ones more.
The nugget of information that gets transmitted to us (concerning Kipling's late life writings and behavior) is new to me and interesting.
So our hero settles down, and the bodies start biling up like cord wood. Love the series. Can't be too mad that the characters are international sterotypes...it's a story, meant to entertain and entertain, it does.
I'm not going to rate this because I didn't finish it. This is the 3d in the series & I knew what was going to happen before it did. It's not really any different than either of the other 2 books. Too similar to bother listening to now. Maybe in a year or two...
quick, easy read..

Another good entry into the "Burglar" series. In this one Bernie steals a rare Kipling book only to find it is not so rare. He also helps the best cop "that money could buy" obtain a fur for his (the cops') wife. This is a fun series that does not have to be read in order to enjoy. Recommended to fans of Block.
Бърни е пенсиониран обирджия и горд собственик на антикварна книжарница в Ню Йорк.Но когато получава предложение да отмъкне уникална книга на Киплинг срещу прилична сума, нищо не може да го спре.Следва ново щуро приключение с неочакван край. :)
A delightful caper mystery! I listened to the Recorded Books edition narrated by Richard Ferrone.
Although it is crime fiction in that Bernie is a burglar and he is often accused of murder and placed in dangerous situations, including often being on the run from the law, the series tends to be light and humorous rather than dark and gritty.Plot-wise, most of the Burglar books tend to follow a similar pattern.
There are, of course, others who want this book and Bernie is held up at gunpoint, framed for murder, drugged, hunted by the police, and generally put in some awkward positions.
Did you think I was joking when I said I plan to read all the books in the series featuring professional burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr?
The books are just that good.In this one, Bernie has put burglary on the back burner (well, for the most part), focusing instead on running a used bookstore he's purchased in Greenwich Village.
When a book collector asks Bernie to find (read: steal) a rare book by Rudyard Kipling for a fairly substantial fee, he thinks about it for about a minute - and then agrees because the bookstore isn't making much of a profit (and truth be told, he still loves the thrill of picking locks).Bernie pulls off the heist with ease, but when he delivers the purloined book to the buyer at an apartment, the whole scheme goes horribly wrong.
