https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825450.Lead_the_Field
Earl Nightingale is amazing.
He's inspirational and can help everyone find a way to deal with even the smallest block that is in their way to success.
I listened to this book on an audio while I worked.
(My job entails driving to people's homes and doing interviews for the Census.) He keeps my spirit up on the bad days and inspires me to do better on all days.
The first one to listen to is "The Strangest Secret." It is about a half hour.
I listen to it often, especially when I need a boost.
Quite motivational book."Life is dull only for dull people".
I know that this field of personal growth / self-help or whatever you prefer to call it, is full of hawkers, snake-oil pushers and all manners of charlatans. However, this book has quite a lot of actionable advice that is no doubt positively good. Mostly about habits of course, but also mental strength and a proper command of language are given their due importance. It is one of those books one would do well to keep in the closest shelf for frequent reference.
I listen to the Audiobook & i really start to notice change in my live Well I admitt now im like an 
Absolutely one of the greatest books ever written about success. It's less about formula and more about human nature -- more importantly, about how to change our nature while remaining true to ourselves.I listen to this book while I run, bike, drive, do yard work, wherever. I'm on my third listen and I catch new things all the time. It's truly excellent.One bit of warning (if it is a warning): Nightingale can sound a bit old-timey. Yet, the more you listen, the more he endures you to his voice and tempo.
Lead The Field is a must read if you are serious about personal development....especially character development. This is my 3rd read in the past 3 decades. Each time the book and its ideas are just as fresh and vibrant as the first time through. The only reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is that Earl Nightingale has another classic....The Strangest Secret...which is even better. Lead the Field is a must read though. You will not be disappointed.
A really amazing few pages... Loved allot ,,,..... concise small peace of treasure.........
Life lessons by a man who makes you feel like his grandson.
That's why I never really expected to pick it up on my online business coach's recommendation.
. So I compromised a bit and went with the audio book version.
I've seen a few of Mr. Nightingale's video programs on YouTube and it piqued my curiosity about him and his ideas.
So when the book was recommended, I wasn't a hard sell.
Lately, I've been searching for information on starting a business, how to 'fix' your finances, how ti escape the rat race, etc.
If you are looking for fluffy, feel good cheerleading that tells you how swell you are, this is the wrong book.
A great book, that puts things in perspective. A great book for success.
I first listened to this book on audiotape about 25 years ago, when my Dad gave it to me, and it has stuck with me ever since.
That's because Nightingale is such a strong storyteller, is practically minded, and is no-nonsense about the approach to professional development, treating others, and, ultimately, life, that he advocates.
It's about material success, but as he repeatedly reminds us, mostly something much deeper.
This time, I read it, and doing so reminded me of the motivation he shares, although something is definitely lost without the warmth and feeling of his liquid voice.
Nevertheless, it's one of those books that is worth having around, dipping into, using as inspiration.
"Lead the Field" is a preachy, lifeless book full of empty platitudes and mindless repetition.
Almost everything inside of this book is completely obvious - from the importance of having a "good attitude" and "a good vocabulary" to tackling tasks "one at a time." Add to that the fact that this book is riddled with typos, you've got yourself a real loser on your hands.
This book somehow made it onto the "Personal MBA" reading list, and to date it has been the only one I have thoroughly disliked.
The one redeeming suggestion in the book was to brainstorm for an hour each morning about how to accomplish your most pressing goal (in order to start the day off thinking).
It is a great book! It reminds you of the basics, of the most important things in life which are not money and to become famous. And these things should not be your goal. You should follow the goals which are present in this books. They are the worthy ones which will achieve more than you have expected. It reminds you that success is having a worthy goal, not earning a lot of money for example. And each person is successful in his own means. So many important lessons!
I typically shun motivational/productivity media, since so much of it is hashed regurgitation of the classics. This is one of the classics. "Lead The Field" ranks alongside "How to Win Friends and Influence People," "The Greatest Salesman in the World", and "Think and Grow Rich". I have listened to this a few times through, and will make it a once-a-week listen while in the car on my way to work.
Remarkable wisdom every step of the wayNightingale draws a roadmap to help each person figure out what success means to them and exactly how to achieve it. Great read and something I will continually reference again and again to reinforce the principles of success this book highlights.
Excellent motivational Audio Book. Many things said in this book if followed will bring a change for good in your life. If you want to set a goal in your life and work towards it and achieve it and change your life for the better then listen to this and act a pone the advice and it will bring you the change.
I read this because Personal-Development can be motivational. To some extent it accomplished that. But over all it was pretty meh. Maybe if you're unfamiliar with the bread-and-butter of the genre this might be worth reading. But personally I find anecdotes and metaphors quickly tiring and they sure don't move my emotions when they insult fact or reason.
Its a philosophical book with lots of emphasis on self improvement. There are various universal statements, this book provides, to start your day with.Not a bad book as its simple and brief. Not for those, who can not get inspired, merely by reading books.
Where do I begin? Perhaps it can best be encapsulated by saying, if there were truly secrets to success, this work reveals them. Commonsense suggestions that are motivating and empowering. This is a classic.
Listen it for success. A very famous audio program by Earl Nightingale. I loved the first chapter very much 5/5....and a few other chapters I rate 4/5.Wanna achieve more in life listen to this recording often.
If you haven't read this book or listen to it , I recommend you to do it as soon as you can. It will spread out your mind to infinite possibilities! Indeed he deserve to be the "Dean of Personal Development."
I just found out about this book a few weeks ago and ordered it from a local bookstore! What a great read!! I'll for sure be re-reading this in the future! Great advice in the book and full of knowledge!
Excellent overview of simple ideas and habits that lead to success
Phenomenal. One of my all-time faves.
Awesome ......
ewsd
very motivational plus actual tips on better organizing time
Powerful!
Nightingale-Conant should consider having someone write an updated edition. There's helpful advice in here, but only mixed in with obsolete anecdotes.
Referred to as the 'Program of Presidents' I have coached this material for over 15 years now!!Amazing story teller. - tell a story - make a point!
