https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/354619.The_Black_Arts_
As I understand Black Magick, it is the act of performing a ritual in order to change something using your will, for selfish reasons.
To use a head of someone in a necromantic spell, does not literally mean to rob a grave and steal a human head!!!!
Rather, while the real meaning is mundane, the effectiveness of this particular ritual is unmistakable.
Since this book was written back in 1967, I wasn't too sure about whether to judge it by the standards of the modern day, however it has been re-released in recent years and Richard Cavendish, the author, is still alive, so that's what I'm going to do.
Plus, it's not as if the people from the 1960's are going to be reading this review anyway.To start with a positive, the book is very widely researched, and it is clear that Cavendish is highly well-versed on the subject.
While definitely dated and a bit Christocentric, The Black Arts provides a thorough overview of several magic practices. As an author planning to write a dark fantasy series in which magic plays a strong role, I found this book useful for learning about the foundations of various magic practices and the themes/logic applied by practitioners. I especially enjoyed the chapters about numerology, tarot, and astrology. Overall, I'd recommend this book to those interested in researching the history of magic, but not to those interested in its modern forms or practices.
The Black Arts is precisely what it claims to be: a concise history of dark mystical practices throughout history, if not exactly factual all the time.
I bought it for its descriptions of black magic practices, among some other fairly neutral mystical practices which, curiously, take up the larger portion of the book, and in that regard, it satisfied me greatly.
As I just stated, the section on the actual black magic arts is the minority in this book by a surprisingly large portion.
This book is by definition PURE fiction as this guy does not have any idea what he is talking about.
Most of the Occult talked about within this book have very normal Origins and have nothing to do with the Devil or Satanic cults which ALL originate within the Christian Religion.
With that said I would not recommend this as a Scholarly review of the Pagan religions that permeated the European areas pre-christian invasion.
I hope that anyone who read this takes everything this guy says with a grain of salt and then throws the book away.
I believe this was one of the first truly occult type book I read some 20-25 years ago. You will not get alot of depth but you will get a broad brush treatment of information to give you a fairly decent overview of the magickal arts. No this is not the fluffy llewyllen stuff but the grimoire type magick with insights into astrology and numerology, cabala and ritual magick. Like I said it is enough to get a taste but not enough to do anything with it. A good starter book.
Thinking this would be about Witchcraft and the Occult through the ages like it says I was excited to read it. More like Religious/Spiritual mumbo jumbo. ONE chapter on Witchcraft and even that was bland. I gave up reading this book. Its all about God and being spiritual. Very disappointed.
I hated this book. This book is all about Christianity and what Christianity would want you to think. Waste of money.
I really enjoyed this book and for anyone looking to begin learning about these topics, I’d suggest looking into it.
I found this was much more interesting that way as it really gives you an idea as to the relationship between all of those elements and an understanding towards the ideology behind banning and judging and executing those who were thought to practice it.
And cavendish explicitly states in moments that these are all practices and thoughts that were derived during a time that held beliefs such as men being superior while women were inferior.
I’d recommend it.
While it was full of interesting content there was also a lot of misogynistic or racist content.
This isn't the author's fault, as history *is* quite misogynistic and racist, but it did make the read less enjoyable in those parts and I found myself skipping over them to go back to astrology, tarot cards, numerology, and so on.
I haven't read many other books like this so I don't know how much information is common, but if you'd like something to flip through once in a while this really isn't bad.
The rating is more for history itself than the author's work.
An easy, fun overview that is hampered by the fact that it shows its age. In the 60's I can see how this was a breakthrough and important book. However, like much of its subject matter - it's no longer relevant. 3 stars for excellent writing. But for serious students of the occult...go ahead and skip this one. It'll offend you.
I have always wanted to learn about the history of magic, and I got more than I bargained for. Some truly disturbing practices and beliefs in this work. I'm not an occultist myself, and I won't be engaging in any of these rituals and practices, but the book did give me a great overview of occultism; many aspects of which are likely to give me nightmares.
The book is very boring. The beginning is interesting, and more interesting parts are scattered throughout, but the parts that would seem to be most interesting, the parts about Devil worshipping and black magic and witchcraft, are not nearly as exciting as one would think.
IMAO, this has long been superseded but its importance will always be felt
An excellent introduction to the occult. Cavendish does a remarkably objective scan of major branches of occult belief and practice. Well written and well researched.
a book that every person who studies occultism should have on their shelf.
Informative and entertaining
Inserted somewhere near the end is a couple pages on modern witchcraft/Wicca, dismissing it due to its cobbled-together nature: a mix of centuries-old witchcraft pop culture and pre-Christian hints of what pagans might have maybe believed and so clearly invalid - unlike all this other magic comprised of an imprecise mix of numerology, astrology, Babylonian/Egyptian/Greek myth, Christian ritual, and making up as many names for God as possible.In short, a few utterly fascinating nuggets of inspiration fuel, some interesting methods and historical bits of "real" magic largely weighed down by deep delves into numerology and astrology that serve mostly to reveal how specious they are.Magic is essentially based on two assumptions: 1) the links between phenomenon are poetic vs casual; 2) humankind was made in the image of the universe and vica-versa.
A very informative collection of brief histories and ideologies based upon different aspects of Occult practices, this book serves as a good guide for beginning Left-Hand enthusiasts.
But, if you're looking for a short account of different aspects of the black Occult practices, and a fair reference guide for some of the better known authors and practitioners, this book is a good place to begin your journey on the Left-Hand Path.
This may well be a personal thing, as I found that the sections I wanted more information were those sections that were of particular interest to me.There was a lot of information on numerology, which I frankly found a bit dull.
If numerology is your bag, then you may find these chapters a lot more interesting.I really dug the chapters on demonology, witchcraft and the other darker aspects of the occult.
This is no surprise, as these were the areas I was most interested in when I picked this book up.All in all, a very engaging read and a good introduction to the occult and the dark arts.
Anyone with any interest in magic (or horror movies or horror literature or anything supernatural) should read this book.
After reading this, I came away with a much more detailed, refined, in-depth understanding of the Black Arts, which I am able to use in my writing of horror.
The truth behind the Black Arts, as explained by Mr. Cavendish, makes understanding this facet of the supernatural so easy that it is like discovering a second nature of which you were never aware.
This is a fascinating work and has helped me immensely to make my writing much more realistic and much less cliché.
I thought this book was extremely informative and interesting to read.
I learned quite a bit from it as far as general knowledge goes (i.e. understanding references in movies, video games, other books, etc.) but don't get it confused as a source for practical knowledge.
The only downfall was the book repeated itself several times in several places, and although this may be to inculcate the information given, I found it to be wearying after awhile.
All in all, a very good read for people who are interested in a nice overview of what people believe to be the basis of witchcraft.
A really interesting book, and though most of it details basic occultism such as astrology and Tarot reading, the introduction and first chapter or so offers a compelling and truly fascinating (not to mention flattering) character study of magicians and alchemists-- an invaluable perspective for anyone-- such as me!-- drawn to creating or enjoying fictional black mages, anti-heros, and other less savory types.
Sometimes scattered and sensational, but generally good overview of the esoteric and occult beliefs and practices. I'm more and more disappointed that these ideas take place within the framework of and through and inversion of a christian paradigm. I found it particularly interesting that many demons, of the most famous demonologies, are simply pagan or non-christian deities literally "demonized" by the Christian church in the pursuit to create an other, sub-human, un-christian, etc.
Obra clásica que ha sido utilizada como fuente de ideas y documentación por varias generaciones de escritores de horror y fantasía (lo que significa que la mayor parte de la información que contiene ya os la sabéis). uno a veces desearía que analizara con más profundidad la filosofía subyacente en lugar de concentrarse en ofrecer anécdotas, pero, claro, entonces dejaría de ser tan bueno como "source material".
There are setbacks, and yes the title denotes a sensationalist taste of the time rather than a true reflection of all that is within it, but this served as a real inspiration to me. Clear, comprehensive and gripping - an excellent place to gather your senses before setting off on further occult tangents.
An overview of the magickal arts from various disciplines including low magick, ritual magick, witchcraft, tarot, and astrology. The author provides some sample spells, rituals, invocations, etc.. as well as anecdotes concerning those who practice these arts. However the serious student will want to seek out other books for more detailed information.
This book was an awesome escape from the grind. I read it as a compendium of poetic concepts and images that I could mine for writing and I would recommend it to anyone for that purpose. The section on the French magicians and their battles was really absorbing. I taking any "information" in it as dubious at best.
Wasn't all that impressed with this book. Was expecting it to give details on the development and origin of aspects of the Black Arts. However, it was more about how to do tarot readings, numerology, and such...not really subjects I would consider "Black Arts."
A good book delving into the occult world. Though hard to read at times, it has information that is an open door to the dark aspects of Witchcraft. Not for the average person in general, but contains a good reference point for the serious minded.
