https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9838361-gandhi-the-man
If you are a Gandhi fan, as I am, this is the kind of book you keep on your shelf.
Gandhi believed that everyone has greatness in them, and that he wasn't special or different from any other man.
Well, after reading the book I believe he was a gift to mankind.
The author does a good job of illustrating how Gandhi's background shaped who he became.
The illustrations of Gandhi in the book add more to his persona.
Gandhi's spirituality as expressed in this book made me want to be a better person.
If you want to understand Gandhi the man, this is a very good book to read.
کتاب شیوه ی اندیشه ی گاندی را می پردازد و راهگشای اندیشه در مورد کارکرد این شیوه در زندگی شخصی هم می تواند باشد.
برای آغاز روزهای نو این کتاب بسیار اندیشمندانه و کاراست.پایان گرفت در یکم فروردین یکهزارو سیصد و نود و شش خورشیدی"Be the change you want to see in the world." These words are by Mahatma Gandhi and his way's basic point to find the truth.
In that book we can find new points about ourself and the way to life.
This is Gandhi massage.
تصور اولیم از این کتاب یه قالب بیوگرافی وار از زندگی گاندی بود ولی غیر از فصل اول کتاب که مختصر راجع
«عشق ورزیدن به آنانی که ما را دوست دارند، عدم خشونت نیست.
عدم خشونت یعنی به کسانی که از ما متنفرند عشق بورزیم.
من خود میدانم که پیروی از این قانون بزرگ عشق تا چه اندازه دشوار است.
اما مگر انجام همهی کارهای بزرگ و با ارزش دشوار نیست؟ عشق به کسی که از ما متنفر است، دشوارترین کارهاست.
اما به لطف و رحمت خدا، حتی این دشوارترین کارها نیز اگر مصمم به انجامش باشیم، سهل و ساده خواهد شد.»«همواره خود را ناتوان از احساس تنفر نسبت به هر موجودی نگاه داشتهام.
با توسل به دوره های طولانیِ انضباط شدید توأم با دعا
من خود می‌دانم که پیروی از این قانون بزرگ عشق تا چه اندازه دشوار است.
اما مگر انجام همه‌ی کارهای بزرگ و با ارزش دشوار نیست؟ عشق به کسی که از ما متنفر است، دشوارترین کارهاست.
می دانم که این، ادعایی بزرگ است؛ با وجود این در نهایت تواضع چنین ادعایی دارم.»«اما از پلیدی، هر کجا که باشد، متنفرم.
به همان اندازه که از اعماق وجودم از نظام زشت نجس‌انگاری [اعتقاد هندوان به نجس بودن طبقه‌ای از جامعه] که میلیون‌ها هندو بانی آنند نفرت دارم.
ریشه‌های عدم همکاری من نه در نفرت که در عشق نهفته است.»«
Ghandi started out as a regular boy and a regular man, and made himself into a mountain of spiritual strength who brought about a bloodless revolution in one of the world's most populous countries.
This biography was written as a tribute by the author of my favorite meditation book, who knew Ghandi personally.
Part of Ghandi's charm--and even his message and his life--is that he thought nothing of himself.My very favorite parts of this book were the words of Ghandi himself that kept popping up as quotes in sidebars.
He was an amazing man who said and did amazing things.
Policy change soon followed.What others called political reform, he claimed was merely an outflow of his ongoing devotion to the Lord of Love, and that “all my activities run into one another; and they all have rise in my insatiable love of mankind,” and he said that if you want to define his religion, “You must watch my life, how I live, eat, sit, talk, behave in general.
It explains his philosophy of nonviolence and how he used it in South Africa and then in India to help the Indian people in both places win their freedom.
I had heard of Gandhi in the past but this book made him into a real person and showed me how one person can make a difference.It also explains the use of nonviolence as used by Gandhi in India and how it can be used today.
I found the concepts used in this book to be very interesting.
This book is a wonderful book for learning more about Gandhi and also learning more about his principles of nonviolence.
I was absolutely thrilled to win a copy of this book through Goodreads First Reads, and simply could not wait to learn more about this remarkable man who has made such an impact on humanity and the world.
Though the text goes into no great detail regarding the history and politics surrounding India's battle with the British, this book shines light on Gandhi's spirituality, his compassion towards all of humanity, his incredible strength and influence over the people he came in contact with, and most importantly his philosophy of nonviolence.
This text has a very clear focus, and Easwaran does an excellent job of bringing Gandhi the man to life.
Bukan salah Gandhi kok ini.
Sekali lagi bukan.
Siapa yang tidak terpesona dengan karisma beliau?
Orang hebat beliau itu dan India patut bersyukur memiliki Gandhi.
Tapi ini masalahnya ada di...
Sejak awal membaca saya merasa buku ini tidak mampu menarik saya lebih dalam.
Bukunya juga terlalu ringkas.
Kurang pas kalau mau dibilang biografi karena isinya kebanyakan pandangan si penulis akan Gandhi.
Juga pokok-pokok ajaran Satyagraha sih.
Saya jadinya sekarang malah penasaran sama buku biografi Gandhi yang betul-betul biografi ya.
Saya jadi semakin penasaran dengan beliau.
Siapa tahu saya bisa menerapkan ajaran Satyagraha-nya (meski itu tampak sangat mustahil).
Disana dia mendapati kenyataan pahit bahwa ibunda yang disayanginya telah meninggal.Di India Gandhi berusaha menjadi pengacara namun rasa mindernya membuat dia gagal.Gandhi kemudian mendapatkan pekerjaan sebagai konsultan hukum di sebuah perusahaan di Afrika Selatan yang saat itu masih kental dengan budaya apartheid dan banyak orang India di sana.
Ajaran2 tersebut mula-mula dia kembangkan di Afrika Selatan, namun kemudian makin berkembang ketika beliau pulang ke India di tahun 1915.Satyagraha adalah berpegang teguh pada jalan kebenaran dan keadilan.
Short, insightful narration of how Gandhi, a failed lawyer, became absolutely obsessed with changing himself, taking things to extreme in dedicating his life to the service of others. In the end it is amazing that he had such an impact over 400 million people (and even others outside India) promoting non-violence at all costs even in the face of certain death.What I felt was missing was more details about how he convinced others of his vision. Usually it's only stated that even the harshest oponents came to change their minds after just talking to him.
This book is a MUST read! It's so beautiful & heart touching!
كتاب خوب و مفيدى بود و باعث شد شناخت بيشترى نسبت به گاندى بزرگ پيدا كنم و چه حيف كه دست سرنوشت امانش نداد تا هندى زيبا و عارى از خشونت بسازد .
The book does a good job at the beginning of talking about his childhood and his young adult years, but then suddenly leaps into his later years of political activism, with no story of the transformation in between.I was also disappointed by the messiah complex of the biographer, who seems to worship Gandhi's almost inhuman powers, because I think the truly inspiring thing about Gandhi is how normal and flawed he was, and how he worked to overcome his weaknesses to the point of becoming such an enormous political and spiritual force in the world.
Great intro to an amazing man and his transformation to the hero we have heard about. It is definitely written by a 'fan', and is, therefore not reflective of the full story of Ghandi's life, which is why I gave it 4 stars. I did like how the author delved into the roots and drivers of the personal transformation Ghandi undertook in order to accomplish the amazing things he did.
Ketika semua orang berfikir bahwa melawan adalah satu-satunya cara untuk mendapatkan kemerdekaan India, Mahatma Gandhi berjuang dengan cara yang sama sekali tidak pernah dipikirkan oleh orang lain.
"Saya menolak kekerasan karena saat terlihat menghasilkan kebaikan, kebaikan itu hanyalah sementara; keburukan yang dihasilkannya adalah kekal." "Saya tidak percaya bahwa kekerasan adalah jalan pintas menuju kesuksesan....
Betapa pun saya mungkin bersimpati dan mengagumi tujuan yang berharga, saya adalah lawan yang keras kepala dari metode kekerasan sekalipun untuk tujuan yang paling mulia....
Pengalaman meyakinkan saya bahwa kebaikan yang kekal tidak pernah akan menjadi hasil dari kedustaan dan kekerasan." hal 613,4/5*
Of all the tangible books I possess, Gandhi the man, is my most prized possession.
I read it with an overwhelming heart and an ear to ear smile on my face.
What Mr Easwaran has achieved is, a wonderful portrayal of the father of the nation without bringing politics into it.
No other Independence related book have I read, which portrays the idea of Gandhi as clearly as the author mentioned above.
Being an Indian, it makes me proud to have born in a nation where Gandhi walked and was instrumental to the freedom of millions of Indians not only at home, but on foreign soil as well.
Dari buku ini saya dapat mengenal Gandhi. Hidup beliau sendiri adalah pesan yang harus disampaikan pada dunia. Sosok yang sederhana dengan perilaku sederhana pula yang membuat banyak perubahan. Saya akhirnya mengetahui mengapa Ia akhirnya di sebut sebagai Mahatma, jiwa yang agung.
Satu referensi yang bagus untuk mengenal salah satu sosok fenomenal, yang memenangkan peperangan tanpa kekerasan. Mendalami nilai-nilai kedamaian dalam kehidupannya, hingga nafas dan doa terakhirnya yang penuh rasa kasih
AD g g a f d f a Gd f f f f f g f f f f f f d f f f f f f f f f d f f f g f. F f. D g. F
This was probably a leaner read than I should have gone for with a biography of Gandhi, but it hits the main points and gives a decent overview of the major themes and changes in the man's life.
از بهترین کتاب ها که خوانده ام"گاندی، برترین آدم تاریخ است"
The power of non violence movement which eventually changed the world
I'm embarrassed by how little I knew about this great man and his amazing accomplishments. This is a great intro to Gandhi and his method of peaceful protest.
Kebencian dan kekerasan tak bisa berdiri sendiri tanpa adanya pendukung, berbeda dengan cinta dan sayang yang mengalir deras dalam darah manusia.Hidup adalah tempat untuk melayani orang, sebanyak mungkin, seberkualitas mungkin.
Berdirilah dan mandiri, maka hidup hanya akan terisi dengan hal ajaib yang menentramkan hati.Gandhi mengubah dirinya untuk mengubah dunia.
Namun, dengan rahmat Tuhan bahkan hal yang paling sulit ini pun dapat dicapai dengan mudah jika kita mau melakukannya.” – Mahatma Gandhi“Kita merasa sedih ketika kita memikirkan diri sendiri” – Ginan Aulia Rahman“Cinta tidak pernah meminta, ia selalu memberi.
In other words, Easwaran attempts to share how Gandhi came to BE the change he wanted to see in the world:"He began with his personal relationships, aware that he could not expect to put out the fires of anger and hatred elsewhere if the same fires smoldered in his own home and heart."His inspiration came from the ancient Hindu scripture, the Bhagavad Gita.
Satyagraha is love in action.Gandhi tried to persuade people to try the merits of a non-violent approach to change:"Select your purpose, selfless, without any thought of personal pleasure or personal profit, and then use selfless means to attain your goal.
Gandhi is quoted, more than once, saying “I have not the shadow of a doubt that any man or woman can achieve what I have, if he or she would make the same effort and cultivate the same hope and faith”.Indeed, the point of this book seems less about being a point by point historical account of Gandhi’s life (though it does certainly reveal his life to us and leads us to an even deeper love and appreciation of him and the life he led), and more about revealing to us the meaning he applied to it, and helping us understand that we, too, can apply this meaning to our lives, if only we were to try.
“Gandhi pointed out, our greatness lies not so much in being able to remake the world outside us – as most of us are led to believe – as in being able to remake ourselves on the highest model of human achievement we know of.”Inserting a timeline and maps increases readers' knowledge on a physical level and by intermingling black and white photographs of Gandhi and few firsthand accounts from his own writings, Easwaren educates readers on a spiritual level as he beautifully weaves them into his own composition to realize a down-to-earth, genuine portrayal of a man who is so highly thought of, and to inspire the reader that they too can change their life to become the person they want to be.
Dari awal mendapat buku ini sudah merupakan keajaiban tersendiri, karena tak lama setelah mendapatkannya, saya diundang ke diskusi tentang Gandhi.
Saya tahu tentang Gandhi dari kecil, karena dia memang Mahatma (yang agung, yang besar), tetapi saya tidak begitu tertarik.
Tetapi kombinasi buku hadiah ulang tahun ditambah undangan diskusi membuat mau tak mau membacanya, dan saya langsung jatuh cinta.
Seperti yang tertulis di buku itu bahwa pengaruh Gandhi sangat besar, setiap orang bisa jatuh kepadanya, daya tariknya luar biasa, mengerikan!
Gandhi ternyata jauh dari lemah, ia sangat tegas dan teguh pada pendiriannya, ia sangat keras kepala dalam menerapkan prinsip nir-kekerasan.
This is an engaging read. A successful attempt at bringing alive the personality that inspired millions. A story of compassion, lofty principles and the greatness that humans are capable of. Must-read.
