https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/749273.Wait_Until_Dark
This idea of criminals burglarizing a blind woman is totally intriguing, but to add these complex layers of "she has to give you the doll on her own accord", even when Roat pretty much just messily kills or tries to kill everyone anyway, is confusing.
I honestly had no idea what the crap was happening throughout most of the show, it just felt like this extra explanation where none was needed.
Honestly it could have been a silent film and I'd have been just as interested.
Amazing psychological thriller when a blind woman finds herself caught up in suspense, mystery and danger,
I’ve never seen the movie or the play but I really enjoyed reading this! It’s one badass thriller
The stage directions were wonderful. I don't usually like too many interspersed amongst the dialogue of a play but I found that this play needed them to give us the feeling of the motion happening on stage. To read this play without that feeling of motion would have made it flat and uninteresting. Well, this is another reminder never to receive an item from a stranger at an airport and transport it for them. Only trouble can come from aiding someone in this way. :DWell written and very entertaining. I would enjoy seeing this on stage.
An exciting, and intensely thrilling game of both verbal and physical manipulation. Wait Until Dark builds slowly and ends with a superbly crafted and enthralling finish.
I've seen this performed on stage (shout out to Uncle Brad, who was awesome!) and seen the Audrey Hepburn movie, and I felt it was time to read the play. I was not disappointed! I knew exactly what was going to happen, and yet I was still on the edge of my seat. This has to be one of the scariest, most heat-racing plays of all time. It is unique in that the main character is blind, and it changes the lighting for a lot of the play. Now I need to rewatch the movie!
A cunning story about three thieves and a blind woman and what they do to deceive each other. Susy has to overcome jer fear of not being able to take care of herself and use her blindness as a strength instead of a curse.
I came into the play fondly remembering the movie. It's a little hard to follow along as a script so I'm glad I was familiar with it. I'd love to see it as a play.
(Love the film version with Audrey Hepburn.)
I read this as part of a group read. I don't usually read plays (I think I mentally associate this with high school) However tis play was very witty, and easy to follow along. As one of the characters is blind, there is quite a bit more stage direction than some other plays have had-well that may not be the reason, it could be just the playrights style. If I get the chance, I would love to see this play done as a production.
Since I've used Goodreads to keep track of the plays I've seen as well as read, I've added this one that I saw in October 2008 in Wellington -- it apparently was an Audrey Hepburn movie in the '60s, but I haven't seen it.
I was involved in a high school production, and have seen the film with Audrey Hepburn, and I love it all. Because what woman doesn't see herself as being the beautiful and clever best-blind-woman-ever?
Three con men try to retrieve a doll stuffed with heroin from the apartment of a photographer and his blind wife.Well-written and suspenseful, though slightly dated.
My gosh this would be fun to act!
I enjoyed it
One of the best plays I have ever read. It is so intense, and I couldn't put it down. I highly recommend reading it.
I love this play and love the 1967 film version starring Audrey Hepburn and Alan Arkin. Knott's writing is suspenseful and thrilling. Quite perfect for fall and Halloween season.
A fantastic thriller. Edge of your seat kind of deal.
I loved reading this play. Well written, great use of stage direction and sound. Would love to see this performed.
I played Sgt. Carlino in this.
A good idea squandered by too much silliness mixed with the good bits.
An effective use of light and dark on stage. The set seems fully utilized. And the characters are Very well crafted.
Oh wow, what an exciting read. I really live this book. Awesome, suspenseful story and very exhilarating at the end.
A very claustrophobic and effective piece of theater. I would enjoy seeing this performed live sometime.
