https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50039.I_m_with_the_Band
“I couldn’t have done it better myself. I will always love you Miss Pamela, and again a thousand apologies for the premature ejaculation.” – Robert Plant  Whenever I hear the word rock star, I immediately think of Spinal Tap.  And Almost Famous. And The Banger Sisters. Rock stars are poor misunderstood creatures. Deep down they are very sensitive, complex beings.  Err... maybe not. Pamela Des Barres is a free spirit. She lived her life to the fullest with no regrets. She didn't give a damn wha
(still doesn't) She seduced rock 'n' roll's finest, she's had her heart broken, used to babysit the Zappa kids, got married then divorced, had a child, wrote a few books, acted in a few movies...
The list of her famous conquests is long, and includes Jimmy Page, Jim Morrison (you go girl), Mick Jagger, Robert Plant, Keith Moon, Gram Parsons, Woody Allen (eww) and Don Johnson.
Such a sweet and lovely precious looking cherub, why is it that he's perverted?' About Don Johnson:  I’m trying hard not to let my imagination run away with me, but it appears that we’re both madly infatuated.
Des Barres also seems aware of how ridiculous she comes off sometimes in her diaries and letters, and you can almost see her rolling her eyes behind the page as she quotes some passage where her teenage self gushed shamelessly over some rock star.
I was supposed to hate Des Barres, and that made me love her.We sneer at the women (or, more accurately, girls, since most of the groupies in this book are only teenagers) who devote themselves slavishly to their rock idols, but we never have any disdain left over for the men who were the cause of this.
She lives and breathes the rock star aesthetic and I kinda dig her dedication to pursuing all her wild dreams, plenty of times she happened to be there at the right place at the right time.
While she fell in and out of lust and love with many of these rock stars she was always actively on the lookout for true and lasting love she just happened to be searching in all the wrong places always believing she would come across her real life Prince Charming...maybe just one with eyeliner and tight pants!
4.5 stars for the sheer enjoyment of being able to live through these exciting times through the eyes of the amazing Pamela!
her description of paul mccartney's balls is priceless.
the main thing that i remember about this book is the image of timothy hutton leaving a bathroom with a trail of toilet paper emerging like a banner from between his asscheeks.
this short bit acts as a capper on the basically contemptuous timothy hutton sequence.
but if you are looking for any actual insight into the various celebrities, look elsewhere - this book is not for you.
silly silly humans.but hey wait a minute, do reality tv "stars" count as celebrities these days?
that's practically being an actual celebrity!
i feel so much more connected to the golden power of celebrity now.
I'm ashamed to admit I read this book, but it's nearing the end of the year, people, and I need to knock out the rest of my Gilmore Girls list!
This book was horrible.
I was expecting it would be like "Almost Famous," and was excited to read about the real-life Penny Lane.Nope.
She would throw in random quotes from rock songs (i.e.
I was SO in the rock scene!" And she's crass.
She never matures and moves past this high school mentality of needing attention.
I feel the need to cleanse the palate...
Pam deBarres is the quintessential party girl.
She’s had a wonderfully fulfilling life meeting all sorts of rock stars because she knows how to meet them.
Throughout her life, she slowly learned how to approach them, and to present herself in such a way that these rock stars can’t say no to her.
What fun!
Her lifestyle is extreme, and I would have held back long before she went that far.
But that’s why I read her book.
She shares her stories with her readers.
It’s the perfect mix for a sexually adventurous book.
This is an awesome book!
This book was unexpectedly inspirational for me in my formative years, I think because I hadn't heard of many women who managed to participate in the world of rock without losing their voices.
Does that sound odd?
It isn't when you think how many women are treated as accoutrements or decorations in that world.
Pamela des Barres may have participated in that, but she did it on her own terms and created a unique and interesting identity.
This isn't a feminist text, but it isn't actually anti-feminist either and it strikes a blow for the right of women to control and enjoy their sexuality just as much as their male compatriots do.
"Miss Pamela" attached herself to absolutely anyone on the rock scene, so there is some good gossip here.
Absolutely anything a musician would do, no matter how disgusting, degrading or idiotic, was "inspiring" to her.
Her revelations are dishy, but I found it shocking and sad what she was willing to do and the horrible treatment she was willing to put up with, just to be associated with the world of rock.
In 1964, the author and her friends, at the time just young girls, have stalked the Beatles to the house they are staying at in LA while on tour.
I found the book more sad than entertaining.
Sve te te njezine spike o ispunjenom životu i jedinstvu sa svemirom nisu mi se činile ni malo vjerodostojno, kao da je cijeli svoj život glumila da je netko drugi, netko "cool"(što dokazuju njezini nesigurni dnevnički zapisi puni sladunjavih gluposti).
Njezin je život jedno ludo putovanje, ali sve što je radila, radila je kratko i stalno nešto kao pokušavala, pa sad bi malo šivala, malo glumila, malo se zaredila za svećenicu, sve nešto na pola.
Samo zato jer je netko vodio zanimljiv život ne znači da to zna napisati, a kud još da i drugima govori kako se piše.
And it's a very juicy read, with lots of sex with rock stars (which is exactly what you would expect from a book like this).
Some of the sex was depressing, like the times she hooked up with Keith Moon, who is maybe the saddest rock star ever.
DON'T JUDGE.)I knocked it down a star, though, because as juicy of a read as this was, I couldn't help but think the book was lacking a bit of the self-awareness you'd expect from a memoir.
This was my bible for a long time. Despite how it is marketed, it is less name-dropping, gossipy chick lit and more the unapologetic, heartfelt diary of one teenaged girl's sexual awakening. Granted, this particular teenaged girl happened to find herself in circumstances vastly favorable to your run-of-the-mill, zitty-boy-next-door scenarios during said awakening, but still--it's a thoroughly engaging, lovely story. Involving penii of famous dudes.
I was interested in a little behind the scenes 411 about Jim Morrison, Mick Jagger, Jimmy Page, Frank Zappa, etc.
Imagine that "friend of a friend" that you stealthily avoid because she just talks too f*cking much, drops names, peppers her "conversation" with song lyrics, and then tells you too much about the not much that is going on in the empty space between her ears.
Okay, now imagine this same little energy vampire talking to you in her giddy voice for nearly 11 hours, and you'll know all you could ever want to know about this book.
When I started reading this one I expected that I would be in for a bunch of the same old sensationalist tripe that one would expect from a jaded ditch pig who has taken to sharing titillating tidbits of her past as a desperate last shot at fame and/or fortune.
In fact, she is just the type of person I could come to detest in a flash.In fact, I found myself pulled into this biography which is really quite nicely written, almost humorous in places.
She shows herself also as a bit of a philosopher, as this excerpt shows:"How close they are together; love and hate, good and evil, pure and impure.
The best rock books about the Sixties are ironically not written by the musicians themselves but all the people peripheral to the action, and Pamela Des Barres of the GTO's is one. I like the stories about the legendary Hollywood Teen Fair, the early glam rock days at the Continental Hyatt House and The GTO's. There's not a boring page in this one!

The book so far is like a hippy fantasy.
I am continuing to read this in the hopes that this woman develops a brain and if not that then some kind of self esteem or whatever she needs to get a better hobby than just ogling and clutching male genitals.
but come on!) and the kiss and tell style leaves a lot to be desired as far as details and really interesting features of being in the first groupie female group.
I was left really wanting more after reading this book.
After a certain point I feel kind of bad for Pamela because she just non stop talks about her life being completed by a husband but at the same time people are calling her to have sex with famous guys.
She really has nothing going for her besides stories of sleeping with all of these famous men and I think it would be more impressive if she had a time-less legacy/achievement to go along with it -- like many of the men she was with.
I guess the most sad thing is most people read this book because of the men involved, not because of the actual author.
The book didn't give me the anwser, but perhaps showed me the cultural environment where asking questions like that is just as pointless as to expect any reason at all.
Unfortunatly the author's voice remains hidden in the neverending descriptions of love and fame ambitions, fleeting relationships that are the only worry in author's life, where anyone (as long as it's a rock star) could play the part of her next conquest.
The depth of her feelings repeats until the end in sentences like "I will just die if I don't see him.
Oh I love him so".
Yawn...
This memoir is starstudded with legendary musicians, actors and very memorable characters whom the divine Miss P met and knew intimately (wow!) way back when: Jagger, Page, Jim Morrison, Robert Plant, Gram Parsons, Don Johnson, Frank & Gail Zappa, Melanie Griffith, Waylon Jennings, Chris Hillman, Michael Des Barres, Brandon de Wilde, Keith Moon, Noel Redding, Nick St. Nicholas, The Beatles (yes, all four of them).
Pam's night with him was my favorite!- Vito Paulekas was an old wack-o pedo "artist" and part of the freak scene living in Laurel Canyon who liked to have hippies around him - especially girls dancing naked and crazy in clubs and his home.
And it was young, beautiful, late 60s / early 70s Mick - all pillowy lips, shaggy hair, and the smallest ass on the planet.I love listening to my parents' stories from this era; I've often thought I was born in the wrong time period.
There are parts that are sad - you're rooting for her to ditch the rock star who's never going to marry her or treat her right, you want her to learn from her past mistakes, but then she goes and does the same song and dance all over again for a new dude.
Miller was a woman who had to be "in love" with just about everyone she had sex with, and a rejection whether after a weekend or a couple weeks, seemed to tear her down to nothing, but then someone else would be sexually attracted to her, and she was on to her next LOVE, which makes it very difficult to give credence to ANY supposed love because it was always love whether it was real or not.Kind of like not being able to look away from a car accident, there was that same fascination here that makes the book an incredibly fast read.
I'm not sure how to describe the way Pamela writes, poetic at times, self fullfilling at others, plain out not understandable throughout most of it...she rambles a lot.Still I have to say that I enjoyed this book because of the era.....the history of a place in time that will never be again.
She was not above judging them, calling them names, making fun of them, and the older she got the more judgemental she became of the younger groupies trying to step in to take her place.
If you are interested in rock n roll, sex, rock stars, movie stars, groupies, drugs, and just plain crazyiness this is the book to read.
I loved loved loved this book and the spirit of it.Every chapter made me holler with laughter or grin to myself behind the pages.
Music is everything to me, still is, always will be and I am sad that the people who have brought so much to me will never know the amount of inspiration they have brought to my life.
I was naive and in love with every possible rock'n'roller ever since I had my first favourite band as a little girl.Pamela Des Barres participated in the rock'n'roll movement and did it with a free spirit and a wide smile on her face.
This book was so great I plowed through it in less than 24 hours after getting it.
Miss Pamela was a true rock n roll courtesan and glided with ease through the lives of legends like Frank Zappa, Jimmy Page, and Mick Jagger.
At the heart of it all, she is a true super fan and she never "grew out" of the ability to go stark raving mad for a guy rocking out on a guitar.
A great story of coming of age during the 60's in L.A. Supposedly Kate Hudson used this book to help her shape her character in Almost Famous, which is one of my favorite movies of all time.
Mmm, salacious readings!Or not.This really wasn't as bad as I thought it'd be.
Miss Pamela is frank, but not explicit.
Actually, I debated for a while whether to read this or not, but I finally decided I would.
Though let's face it, I'd probably end up doing that at some point anyway.) Miss Pamela did not bed any of my favourite celebrities from this era (AKA The Beatles!) so I was quite happy about that.
(Please don't take that sentence out of context.
Though I'm not even sure if it makes sense in context...)
The writing was horrendous, and if not for the subject matter, I felt like it was written by a 6th grader.
Sleeping with either Jimmy Page or Mick Jagger would have been a life accomplishment, but Miss P slept with both of them; she had pseudo-relationships with both of them, among a number of others.
Talk about a life less ordinary .
But for all of the impressive conquests, there was just something so childish and naive about her that I just found myself detesting.
And despite all of the impressive conquests, and how I couldn't stop reading, it really just wasn't very good.
Any book that involves knocking boots with Jimmy Page is alright by me. Always chose him over Robert Plant, myself.Seems Ms. Des Barres didn't knock out nearly as many brain cells as she lets on, as this is a very densely detailed (down to Rod Stewart's outfits and Mick Jagger's half-smiles) account of her many summers of love. Best line: "I was turned inside out, pulsating with creamy pink desire for the most coveted hunk of drool material." Read the book to find out just who she was drooling on!
I wanted to read about the rock'n roll life from a woman's perspective after The Dirt, but reading this is like reading a girl's journal or teen magazine, only the boys are rock stars.
Only these husbands/fathers are rock stars.So disappointed.
Or to write in Pamela's style: Sooooo DISAPPOINTED.
She writes in a teen-y style about her teen and early twenties, but the book was published inn 1987, when she was almost 40.
There certainly is a voice of an older woman looking back at her life here and there, but most of it is the voice of the young girl.
