https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77618.The_Rubber_Band
3.5★I started with high expectations for this book, as the first chapter was absolutely hilarious! Wolfe still paid no attention to me. As a matter of fact, I didn't expect him to, since he was busy taking exercise. He had recently got the impression he weighed too much- which was about the same as if the Atlantic Ocean had decided it was too wet... & the revelation of the chief villain genuinely surprised me, but it was just too talky talky. Of course this is always a characteristic of this
3.5★I started with high expectations for this book, as the first chapter was absolutely hilarious!
Wolfe still paid no attention to me.
As a matter of fact, I didn't expect him to, since he was busy taking exercise.
He had recently got the impression he weighed too much- which was about the same as if the Atlantic Ocean had decided it was too wet...
Of course this is always a characteristic of this series, since the morbidly obese Wolfe never leaves the house, but this time Archie doesn't move around much as Wolfe decides to have other minions do the leg work.
These guys make a fine addition to the colorful cast.Nero Wolfe has to hide his clients from time to time to save them from their enemies and from their untimely meeting with the police (he likes to arrange his own timing for such meetings).
This book features one of the best ways in to hide a person right under the noses of a police squad doing a methodical search of Wolfe's house for the person in question.Great characters and a very good mystery which kept me guessing until the end give this book well-deserved 4.5 stars.This review is a copy/paste of my BookLikes one: http://gene.booklikes.com/post/901207...
Among the firsts in this book, the third in the series:Wolfe's exercise program.Sgt. Stebbins tagging along with Inspector Cramer on a visit to Wolfe's brownstone.I don't recall the use of pfui by Wolfe in the first two books. It appears in this book.Cramer is still smoking a pipe at times and again refers to Archie as "sonny". Cramer hasn't jelled completely yet.
In only the loosest sense are the t Nero Wolfe books a series. Though they are numbered sequentially, that is more so for the time frame of each title's publication and the time era of the story. In every other way, these books can be read as stand-alones without missing anything critical to the enjoyment or understanding of the book in hand.
Rex Stout combined the hard-boiled detective of Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler with the intellectual master-detective of the Sherlock Holmes stories and came up with a most winning formula for his long series of Nero Wolfe books.
The Wolfe books are extraordinarily entertaining, and THE RUBBER BAND is one of the best.
Stout so perfectly combines the elements most loved about the Holmes and the hard-boiled dick stories, and he creates such a richly familiar environment, that the scores of novels he wrote never grow boring or common.
But he does, and just about every Wolfe book is a wealth of entertainment.
Nero Wolfe novels are just plain fun and I should read more of them.
Only Nero Wolfe and his assistant Archie Goodwin are more than caricatures.
Wolfe commands a wide network of operators.
The characters who present the mystery are, surprisingly, somewhat better seen than those operatives.
We don't always know what Wolfe is thinking, and we don't always have all of the clues to solve the mystery ourselves.
The dynamic between Wolfe and Archie is just too good to fret over what I'll be told later.
I had ordered The League Of Frightened Men, #2 in Stout's series but they shipped me The Rubber Band instead and when the mistake was pointed out I was told to keep the book and they gave me a full refund.
The book was in fair to poor shape, a paperback, but the words were legible and that's what matters most of all.
If I can read it then it's a good book, all things considered.I don't know if I read any of the Nero Wolfe novels as a kid.
I was living in Brazil from the ages of 11 to 13 and no s
I had ordered The League Of Frightened Men, #2 in Stout's series but they shipped me The Rubber Band instead and when the mistake was pointed out I was told to keep the book and they gave me a full refund.
If I can read it then it's a good book, all things considered.I don't know if I read any of the Nero Wolfe novels as a kid.
If I didn't read any of Stout's novels I should have and now I'm making up for lost time.I had heard of Nero Wolfe but I think my first introduction was the A&E series in 2001-2002, staring Maury Chaykin as Nero Wolfe and Timothy Hutton as Archie Goodwin.
Only the third of the Nero Wolfe novels, written in 1936, when all the male visitors to Wolfe's brownstone wore hats and overcoats, and the ritzier ones had canes to be left near the front door.
Archie has not yet developed the intelligence he will display in later books (30 years later he and Wolfe will not have aged, although they will have changed a little), but his love-hate, passive-aggressive relationship with Wolfe is already on vivid display.
The mystery is a good one, with all the usual Nero Wolfe aspects already in place, and not only did I not guess the murderer, I never even had him on my radar screen, despite the carefully placed clues.
I will give a full review at a later date.
While this Nero Wolfe installment is not one of my favorites, it still is a strong mystery. Grand Larceny, an English Nobleman, a 50 year old debt, and Murder has the detective spinning and a female staying in Wolfe's house. Archie's wit and cynicism is fully on display and expect a few laughs, especially when the police execute a Search Warrant on Nero Wolfe's home . Everything does eventually tie together and the culprit was a surprise to me.
The Rubber Band is early in the Nero Wolfe cannon and it is fun to see the characters as they begin to take shape, particularly the supporting the cast.
However the suspects and the clients are beautifully described, as always, and the reader has no trouble at all picturing Clara Fox in Archie's PJs. All the clues are there and when Wolfe gathers everyone in the office to reveal the killer, we should know whodunnit.
In this case, I was almost right but "almost" wouldn't hold up in court or in Archie's eyes.
...Anyway, this is my first time reading anything in the Nero Wolfe series, and I ended up starting with Rubber Band. It was a riveting novel with elements of mystery and crime, and the characters felt like they were almost real. Definitely a book worth reading. :)
This is chronologically the third NW mystery, and most of the elements are already in place – the great man summoning clients no matter how prestigious rather than heaving his bulk out into the world, be they kings of industry or foreign diplomats; making them cool their heels while the genius finishes in his plant rooms once they arrive; the over arching importance of meals, their names thrown off as if I should just know what Chacken Brazilia is; the insulting of people, especially those who come from the 9-5 world of commerce:“Pleasant afternoon, Archie?”“No, putrid.
Anybody who likes Nero Wolfe stories is sure to like this one.
Rex Stout essentially hit the ground running when he started writing Nero Wolfe, and this one, only the third book in a long series, is totally up to speed.
Some of the long-familiar character traits aren't quite set in stone yet.
Inspector Cramer actually lights a cigar.
Wolfe is ever so slightly susceptible to his client's feminine charms.
Is the roadster parked at the curb outside or in a parking garage?
We get conflicting reports.
But none of that matters.
It's a neat story with some of our favorite detectives.
The Rubber Band by Rex Stout.Nero is faced or to be more exact presented with a two in one mystery.
The case revolves around a beautiful client with charges against her on the near horizon.
But the cases themselves start almost 50 years ago in the west...the Wild West.
Together they proceed in uncovering a plot founded in greed.This particular story reveals Archie in a more critical view of his boss.Nero Wolfe and Archie have remained a mainstay in my reading for years.
Published in 1936, this is the third of the Nero Wolfe novels by Rex Stout and already the relationships existing among the characters living under Nero Wolfe's roof are evident.
The passive-aggressive, snarky relationship that binds Nero Wolfe and his assistant, Archie Goodwin, makes me smile on the bluest of days.
In this outing, a former client wants to hire Wolfe to prove that Clara Fox, one of his employees, is innocent of stealing $30,000.
Later that same day, Clara Fox arrives wanting to hire Wolfe for an entirely different reason.
Before it's over, Wolfe solves both mysteries without setting foot out of his Brownstone or deviating from his strictly set daily schedule.
Not Rex Stout's best Nero Wolfe book; but even a not-best Nero Wolfe story is good fun.
3.5 stars
If you ever wondered what Sheldon Cooper would look like as an overweight detective, this is the novel for you.
That's not just a tagline, that is how I felt about the good Nero Wolfe at the end of the novel.
The mystery was a bit similar to the prior novel, The League of Frightened Men, but the wrap-up was quite different.
We, the readers, receive an excellent series of back and forth between Nero and Archie.
Both men feel put upon by their partner (I know Archie technically works for Nero, but please!) and work almost as hard to irritate the other as to solve the case.
And, as this is just the 3rd of 72 Stout/Wolfe outings, Stout is still introducing us (I assume, as I've only read one) to particular nuances of the characters, and, yes, this is an odd set, memorable certainly.Place=2: This book could have been set in any big city.
(Please note: I have not read this book two times, even though goodreads is telling me I did.
Gostei, apesar do estilo destes policiais americanos ser por xs meio difícil por falta de dados, informações que os personagens têm mas o leitor não, deste modo não é possível resolver o caso...Não conhecia Rex Stout, ou então já não me lembrava, mas valeu a pena
Wonderful as usual, this Nero Wolfe mystery! Archie Goodwin, Fritz, Theodor, Saul Panzer and all other usual characters take us on a fast moving thriller during which the hypothesis are reflected upon while Nero Wolfe drinks beer, eats like a Gourmand and takes care of his famous orchids!With the inestimable humor of Mr. Goodwin, one of the partnerships ever against crime!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 9 February 2018.
Miss Clara Fox, an employee and possibly more to Mr. Perry, is accused of stealing $30,000 from the company.
Later that same day, Clara Fox herself shows up and wants to hire Wolfe for a totally different reason.
Is Wolfe going to be able to solve it or is he too bound up in reading Hungarian Poetry to the beautiful Miss Fox?
This guy they saved from hanging must have been awfully young when it happened or wouldn't Clara Fox now regard him now as just an old geezer?
And you know that if she can charm Wolfe, she'll make a great diplomat's wife.
When my concentration is off, like on the beach or in times of stress, I return to my old favorites for the pleasure of a good read without needing my full brain power.
For this reason, I happily return to Rex Stout, Nero and Archie.
This book, one of the very first, is still a pleasure to read, and shows that even early in his long career Stout had a firm handle on his craft and his characters.
And everything (almost) I know about orchids I learned at the feet of Nero/Rex.So here's to a classic that stands the test of time.
I do like this series.
I know I've read them, way back when, before but I don't really remember them.
Written and set in the 1930s, some of the pejoratives for nationalities and race are used and are rather surprising and gasp-inducing in this day and age, but they are pretty mild compared to other novels of the time period.
All part of the enjoyment.Nero Wolfe's genius is challenged by this complex mystery of murder, manipulation, greed, and graft.
Archie Goodwin as the legman and recorder of the murder mysteries is sharply observant, dryly witty and smart in his own way.
What is not to love about Rex Stout's wonderful Nero Wolf series?
I hadn't read any in years, so I requested the earliest ones available from the library that I hadn't read yet.
This is the 3rd book Stout wrote featuring the famous fat detective and his "confidential assistant" Archie Goodwin.
They might just have the best repartee of any two literary characters.
This story (totally secondary to the characters) focuses on a young woman who has managed to get herself charged with both larceny and murder.
If you haven't read a Nero Wolf story, I strongly urge you to, as soon as possible.
The Rubber Band is the third installment of the long-running Nero Wolfe detective series, and I cannot express how grateful I am that I still have over 40 of these to read.
Take everything you may not like about Sherlock Holmes (if anything) and toss it out, add in anything you'd like to see, and you have Nero Wolfe--the perfect detective (not perfect person).
These two share a mutual respect, but like all great friends, they tire of each other after prolonged exposure, and when Nero is in his moods, these novels are just a delight to read.
I spare any readers who accidentally stumble over this my review the synopsis of the book, other people did a better job at describing than I could.As in any good mystery, there is a nice twist and a fantastic solution to the case, but that's not the most charming part of this (and probably any other) Nero-Wolfe-novel.
And after all, his voice is much more entertaining than Wolfe's (or even some possible outside observer and story-teller) would probably be.So, that's it.
In other books Archie likes to play dumb, but in this one he uses a word (Weltschmertz) that even Wolfe greets with, "Where did you get that!" I had to look it up online.In this tale, a wouldbe adventuress tells Archie she's setting her cap at Wolfe, and it seems to be working for awhile, as we see him reciting Hungarian poetry to her over luncheon!
Published in 1936, it's interesting to read how things have changed.
Both he and Archie use the occasional bit of profanity, but compared to today's fodder, it's all very mild.
I read this crime-fiction novel (1936) by the well-known mystery writer Rex Stout in preparation for viewing the play, "Might As Well Be Dead: A Nero Wolf Mystery" at the Park Square Theater, St. Paul, MN (7.21.17).
This 180-page novel was slow in the process of gathering evidence (complication), but swift once the murderer/embezzler was discovered (climax & denouement).
Private Investigator, Nero Wolf, is a reclusive and eccentric connoisseur of fine food, expensive beer, and exotic orchids.
A forty-year-old pact, a five-thousand-mile search, and a million-dollar murder are all linked to an international scandal that could rebound on the great detective and his partner, Archie Goodwin, with fatal abruptness.
