https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137192.Wayfarers
Lutalice su divna, topla i nežna knjiga sa ukusom zimskih bajki, ali ne onih koje pričaju bake da ugreju, odagnaju strahove i ražeste maštu, već onih koje pričaju dede, da ojunače: sa konkretnim događajima, fantastično stvarnim likovima, pravom srčanošću, ozbiljnim izdajama i raznim životnim zgodama i nedaćama iz kojih sam moraš izvući nauk.
Iz vizure sveznajućeg pisca (kome je to što sve zna posao, a ne izuzetnost – dakle, bez trunke oholosti), pratimo nekoliko likova koji su ovako ili onako upleteni u život nepismenog, ali vrednog i bistrog Edevarta iz malog ribarskog seoceta na severu Norveške, negde na dnu božijeg zadnjeg džepa.
Volim njegove divne opise, njegove divne zemlje :) svaki put po završetku knjige imam utisak da sam i fizički boravila u Norveškoj, ne samo mislima.
Ovaj roman je, u odnosu na prethodne koje sam čitala, nešto obimniji, po mom mišljenju bespotrebno...čini mi se da se radnja neprestano vrti ukrug..pretpostavljam zato da bi nam bolje dočarao život svojih lutalica.
No dobro, neću zanovetati, jedna dobra četvorka za početak uspešne čitalačke godine :)Iako je "Glad" na mene ostavila najjači utisak (tematika je ipak nešto teža od ostalih koje pročitah), nekako mi se čini da su mi "Plodovi zemlje" definitivno favorit.
Translated from the Norwegian by James McFarlaneFirst line - Two men came trudging northward from the neighbouring village.This has 460 pages and if a passing librarian can enter that in the blurb box then I could watch my progress and be very happy indeed.
Sorted thanks to Dear Hayes.Page 45.
There is mention of a boat called The Seagull and for some reason my mind threw out 'unlucky name' so I went looking for a boat with that name, which seemed to fill me with trepidation.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_...A little later - think my dread of The Seagull comes from an icky little book.4* - Hunger4* - Mysteries4* - Wayfarers
Zwervers is zo’n boek dat beter lijkt te worden naarmate je er meer afstand van neemt. Hoe langer je erover nadenkt, hoe meer je terugkijkt hoe meer je gaat beseffen dat het wel een verrekt mooi boek is. De thematiek is geweldig uitgewerkt, de belangrijkste personages zijn onvergetelijk en de schets van het moeizame leven in Noorwegen van ruim een eeuw geleden is indrukwekkend mooi. Maar bovenal is Hamsun een geweldige verteller die met Zwervers een boek heeft afgeleverd dat na bijna een eeuw nog nauwelijks gedateerd aandoet. Magnifiek!Volledige recensie: https://jkleest.nl/2018/09/zwervers-k...
(No listing for that edition here in GoodReads.) A big canvas on which Hamsun depicts numerous intertwined characters' lives, focusing primarily on two on-again, off-again traveling buddies Edevart and August.
Were the Poldeners happier when they stayed on the land, keeping their one or two cows, and working with the seasons -- despite some degree of privation?
One of the little changes mentioned along the way caught at my heart: Edevart's brother complains that some farmers were raising cows to slaughter to sell the veal to rich families, instead of naming them and keeping them as part of the farmer's own family, as they had always done before.

Really enjoyed this poignantly rich gem from one of my all-time favorite authors KNUT HAMSUN.
Fave lines: "He had no one to talk with, for he was too lowly to mingle with the snobs and too snobbish to mingle with the lowly"&"Rich he was not and he never claimed that he was; but he wore beautiful blue clothes, owned a silver watch and had a few dollars in his pocket" & "The crab must proceed patiently on its long backward journey to the place from whence it started." Loved the wild escapades of the young brash character AUGUST and his more conservative thoughtful friend EDEVART.
Great juxtaposition of personalities through various wanderings in times of both happiness and grief.
Great read.
Although Hamsun received the Nobel Prize he isn't widely read anymore.
His quiet books have a lot to say about the effect of modern times on man.
In this book many of Hansun's themes are on display: restlessness, the effect of industrialization on mankind, Hamsun's dislike of technology in favor of a more agrarian, simple living, the importance of friendship and so on.
The book focuses on two friends.
For me there is a melancholy in his writing that really makes him worth reading and the last few pages, for me at least, have stayed with me for over 10 years.
this book is ok but someone from la public library poked out the front cover's balls with the metal bit tip of a mechanical pencil, hard enough to leave an impression like 50 pages into the book. pretty cool. eithera] a prudish librarian did not want the delicate eyes of knut hamsun readers to be assulted by a busy walking man's pubes and ballsorb] a prudish reader of knut hamsun saved as all from aforesaid.truely life is full of magic and mysteries. speaking of mysteries read that, hunger, or even pan before this one. thanks bye
Mesmo tendo recebido o Nobel da literatura, Knut Hamsun caiu no ostracismo da literatura mundial, muito provavelmente pela campanha difamatória que recebeu pelo seu envolvimento com o Nacional Socialismo durante a 2ª Guerra Mundial."Wayfarers" é o primeiro livro da trilogia 'August' que ainda conta com "August" (livro extremamente raro de se encontrar) e a terceira parte "The Road Leads On".
Cometi o erro de ter lido a terceira parte antes mas nem por isso tirou o brilho desta obra prima que é "Wayfarers".Ao contrário de "Hunger", o livro do escritor que foi uma das maiores influências para Charles Bukowski e John Fante, os demais livros que tive contato não seguem a mesma linha.
This is the third Hamsun book ive read this year and the best.
I loved this book, it's just great and the story just moves so naturally and effortlessly, its true that your never gunna need a dictionary when reading Hamsun but who needs to be able to string along aload of big words when your just a phenomenal storyteller like Hamsun.
This is kinda like another novel by Hamsun ~ Growth Of Soil, it follows a cast of characters over a number of years as they struggle though life, though all the ups and downs and the changes, there's murder, grave robbing, restlessness and loss love.
My first foray into Norwegian Lit. And it was great - something entirely different.
Hamsun goes a step further than Hardy, I think, showing what happens when individuals try to rise above their fate, try to improve their lot.
Many things are lost, and what is gained?
Is knowing, seeing, and having more really "being" more?
It's hard for us 21st century folk to comprehend not having access to the wealth of knowledge we have now.
The idea of just living with things as they are - I have trouble imagining it.
A great book on many levels.
It raised a lot of questions.
Beautiful novel, took a while to get into it, but eventually drags you into its self-contained universe. Big cast of characters, like a Dickens novel; central story (that of Edevart) a sad one. Not as cosmically great as 'Growth of the Soil', but what is.
He grew up in poverty just like his main character in the Wayfarers, Edvart.
He had a deep admiration of Germany and Hitler.
He worshiped Hitler and longed for Norway to become a part of Germany.
He was celebrated as a writer and was even awarded a nobel sfter his masterpiece "the Growth of the Soil".In this novel, Hamsun looks at the lives of two vagabonds as they travel Norway looking for work.
August and Edvart struggle with poverty, unemployment, and illiteracy.
Despite all these, they are able to survive as they look for work.
That is a central theme in Hamsun's novels.
This book together with  Hunger,  Frankenstein,  1984,  Jurassic Park and  Lost Horizon are my "classic list" to be read.
Какие люди нужны человечеству? Человечеству нужны всякие люди" Не могу назвать философской, не могу назвать простой. Селение Поллен в некотором смысле Россия в миниатюре. Разные персонажи - это все мы. Но, конечно, в книге раскрывается образ скитальцев. Именно поэтому она меня и заинтересовала. Я надеялся получить ответы на свои вопросы или мысли для своих умозаключений, но...это книга описательная, сага, история. Бродяг сложно понять, но они нужны миру, т.к. они (как в этой книге) несут перемены. А перемены, какие бы они не были, это основа всего. Но не думаю, что сразу приступлю ко второй книге, т.к. всё-таки тяжеловата, суховата.
'We lived in Polden and went fishing in the winter and lived as well as we could from year to year. That was good enough for us. We had no cause to complain to God. He kept us alive and did not foresake us.' 'So it comes and goes. Indeed it does. Everything comes and goes, but some things go under. It cannot be otherwise.'
An excellent book about the fear of settling down - and the struggle of always wanting to move forward. It was written in the early 1900s, which makes it interesting to read today - in an even more hasty and and anxious world.
The love theme of this novel is my favourite - it so well describes the pain that one feels when he is emotionally commited to a person who lives far away - the anxiety that arises in long-distance communication.
And furthermore, the pain that one feels when he realizes that he secretly wants his loved one to stay the same all the time, to not change, for a change might mean a twist in the nature of the relationship.
L'humanité de tous ces personnages est transcendante, tous les habitants du village natale d'Edevart avec Ezra et Ragna, ceux de Doppen avec Lovese Magrite et les Knoffs et comment ne pas citer Auguste, qui, il faut bien se l'avouer est sûrement le personnage le plus fort de cette oeuvre.
Bref comme je pourrais lire, je pourrais parler à l'infinie de cet auteur et de son oeuvre et dans le fond je ne crois pas être capable de relever toute la finesse et la puissance de son texte.Où s'en est-il allé?
Hardly anyone reads Knut Hamsun anymore.
Anyway, the one I'm talking about concerns the lifelong friendship of two vagabonds, Edevart and August, one of whom is a tale-spinning rake and the other a more steadfast type, through the ups and downs and weirdness of their lives as freelance fishermen and travelling peddlers in Norway just as America Fever hits and everyone moves away.
Includes the tale of a murdered skipper allowed to drown in a bog that feels like a metaphor for uncharted sinkholes in everyone's hearts--reminding me of a similar metaphor in Hugh Gallagher's "Teeth", written almost a hundred years later.
This is another whole new kind of novel from Hamsun, more like "The Growth Of The Soil" than "Mysteries," but enough like "Hunger" that it works.
Klasika, trochu tiesnive, o hladani sameho seba a spokojnosti, aj ked rozhodne nie takto prvoplanovo a jednoznacne. Nepatri medzi Hamsunove najlepsie diela, ale svojim sposobom si ma v priebehu citania naozaj ziskala.
"Maar Edevart had een gevoel alsof er een schilderstuk, een regenboog in hem verscheurd werd."
A book about humans conspiring against themselves for a lifetime!
I just love Knut Hamsun. He shows a great insight into human nature, and his writing is ironic and droll, which I happen to enjoy.
Jævla kul bok as. Lo høyt mange ganger hehe. Leste originalutgaven fra 1927.
perceptive.
liked the way this book reflected life and the meaning you can find in the flow of life...
