https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278471.The_Legend_of_the_Seventh_Virgin
Other characters are Granny Bee, who is basically a wise woman of the village (but is actually quite stupid), Kerensa's brother Joe, who falls in love with animals, not with houses, the St. Larnston brothers, and a few other villagers.
Nevertheless, I liked the setting and the St. Larnston family was interesting, as was Joe. I actually liked all the male characters very much, and they provided sufficient variety to the monotony of Kerensa's obsession with "the house".I'm discovering that Holt's so-called "strong" heroines are not really that progressive.
Oddly enough, this is actually one of my favorite books. There were many times throughout reading it when I wanted to slap one or more of the characters... But let's face it, not every book should be about some incredibly wonderful person that triumphs over character faults to move on and live happily ever after. It is a great book and does an amazing job of pointing out that having what you wish for is not necessarily a dream come true.
The gulf between her social station and that of the St. Larnston family owning the estate looms large in her life.Through a series of chance circumstances, Karensa ends up being befriended by Mellyora, daughter of the local vicar.
Her life then starts to become more deeply intertwined with that of the St. Larnstons.
Instead of being docile and pliable, she burns with ambition and has an edge of ruthlessness that many heroines lack (or at least hide.) The Cornwall setting vividly written and if you like books involving homes burdened by troublesome histories, this one would definitely fit the bill.
I loved this book - both now and when I first read it almost 30 years ago.
I loved Mellyora and Karensa so much that I actually wanted to name my kids by those two names (of course my husband said "no").
The characters are strong - whether they have good or bad qualities - the strength in those qualities is well defined and clearly fits into the story.
I love how there is always a new twist or turn in the story that is almost unexpected.
The continuous turns kept me engaged and interested and I had a hard time putting down the book.
Way back when, my mother and I were reading the same gothic romances. It was a nice break from all that high school required reading like "Hamlet" and "All the King's Men" and "Pride and Prejudice", etc. And I still today read an occasional gothic. But this one, "Seventh Virgin", I remember as being particularly good (along with the Christmas decorations and roaring fireplace and winter vacation from school) , almost on par with "Rebecca". True, this is a genre often overlooked by "serious" readers. But I like to read a little bit of everything. Cause I believe one should.
Nada realmente acontece além das maquinações da protagonista e relata sua vida desde os doze anos, voltando um pouco no tempo para relatar o que lhe havia acontecido antes de chegar a Cornualha, onde vivia com a avó e o irmão.
Casa-se com o irmão mais novo dos Larnston após muito trabalho (ele era uma pessoa desprezível, mulherengo, maldoso, arrogante, etc), fica grávida e passa a cuidar para que Justin jamais tenha filhos com a esposa, Judith e também que jamais a abandone por Mellyora porque apenas seu filho poderia herdar a propriedade e as terras da família.
I'm pretty sure that when I read this back in the seventies I hated it.
But reading it now, I can appreciate the fitness of it a little more.
I suspect the author wants us to agree that Kerensa hasn't grown enough to warrant any more than a hopeful ending.
Not to mention Kerensa's grandmother who witnessed the event, knew that Johnny only married Kerensa because of it, but didn't tell her about it until years later.
"BTWs, your husband only married you because he thinks you saw him killing a girl.
Anyhoo, have fun storming the castle!") Compared to that, Kerensa's machinations seem pretty tame.
I had been interested in reading the author since Lauren Willig (whose Pink Carnation books I adore) mentioned that a Holt book was an influence on her Night Jasmine installment in the Pink series.
The Legend of the Seventh Virgin is always engaging and has a nice tone of melodrama throughout.
The lead character is a bit problematic, though she has a great name: Kerensa Carlee.
Appropriately soap opera-ish, no?
The Cornish setting here is fantastic, and the style of Holt's writing is good.
I might try more Holt sometime soon, so four stars overall.
To be perfectly honest I was steadily becoming less interested in this book as the story progressed.
However when I had time to kill at a laundry mat, I decided to read the last few chapters just to see how it ends.
I had heard that it didn't have a happy ending but I couldn't disagree more.
The last few chapters make the whole book.
I don't like spoilers, but if you start to read this I would just say push through the whole book.
It's a story of the importance of compromise and true happiness.
This book reminded me a lot of Jane Eyre, which probably explains why I liked it so much.
At first the setting was hard to get used to because it was so foreign, but as the book went on Cornwall grew to seem more and more like England.
Kerensa is a very strong character and I really enjoyed the fact that her Spanish looks were dramatized throughout the novel.
The ending was a surprise and didn't quite favor the character I was rooting for, but it was still a good book.
This is one of my favourites, don't know why but just was at the time of me reading it, of course if I were to read it now it probably would not get as many stars but I am going from memory here.Sorry - I should point out that I read this book over 22 years ago. I remember reading some of it on the train on my way home from school and being so intrigued with it I almost missed my stop.
This is one of my favorite books of all-time. It's not a sappy romance novel at all and like Gone with the Wind, the heroine is strong and couldn't care less about getting a man, until later when she's met the rest of her goals. Just a really interesting story set back-when.
This is the first Victoria Holy book that I ever read - back in 1977 - I was hooked from the beginning!

I´m a huge fan of Victoria Holt, I read most of her books (in icelandic) when I was 12-14.
Better than I had dared to hope since it´s been such a long time.
It´s not as masterful as lets say Jane Eyre or Northanger Abbey, but I feel completely justifiable for giving it 5 stars.
Some have said she is a little like Scarlet O´ Hara, but I´m not sure I could go that far.
I happened to love the bitchy-ness of Scarlet so I didn´t get bothered by Kerensa at all.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
This was a great story. Didn't end like the other Victoria Holt books I have read so far but it made me love it more for that reason.
I'm not particularly into reading damsel in distress, and I can say I always prefer heroins with strong characters, but Kerensa is very difficult to relate.
I love Nick Hornby so much because he cares deeply about his shallow characters.
(hide spoiler)] And as I grew less attached about Kerenza as the story goes, reading a story following how she feels and thinks is not much fun.
I read both as a child and did not understand why people like them.
All my experience with Gothic novels makes me think people at that time are unbelievable, and unbelievably simple-minded.
Set in Cornwall, probably mid-to-late 1800's, and narrated by beautiful Kerensa as she spins her rags-to-riches story. She is driven by pride and ambition for those she holds dear, skillfully bending others to her will. She is championed by her wise grandmother and her charitable friend, Mellyora.As the story winds to a conclusion Kerensa comes to see that perhaps she has not been the spider spinning her web so much as being caught up in a web of which she was unaware.She reminded me of Scarlet O'Hara in GONE WITH THE WIND, with a more satisfying conclusion.
Es la primera vez que realmente deseo que no pase lo que la protagonista desea, sino todo lo contrario... Kerensa Carlee no es la heroína, es la antiheroína de la historia. El final compensa mucho de lo que pasa en la historia, y es increíble cómo esta autora logra que sea muy difícil soltar uno de sus libros después de empezar a leer.
While this isn't a book equal to Wuthering Heights or Rebecca (as the book cover suggests), it is thoroughly enjoyable. Many reviewers mention the unlikable traits of the heroine, but I would argue that her flawed ambitions and selfishness are really important to my appreciation of the book.
It's a long time since I read any Victoria Holt.This one has it all - drama, intrigue, murder,treachery, all wrapped up in a beaut "flying fickle finger of fate" historical tale.
Her books have always been a source of entertainment for me, even though they are so silly and predictable. And I'm always chuckling at the outlandish and goofy names of the characters: this one has Kerensa, Carlyon, Mellyora and we mustn't forget Grannie Bee!
I was so fascinated by Victoria Holt  The Demon Lover that I gave another try on one of her books and this is quite good and very engaging.
I found this book interesting from beginning to end!
This was the book I read in Jr high. Its the only one I remember reading that I really enjoyed. I think I read it at least three times. I just might read it again.
Kerensa Carlee has a dream that she firmly believes she wants to fulfill and she works hard to fulfill it in this engrossing story.
Holt shows the reader in page after page how Kerensa is thinking, what she is feeling, and how she rationalizes things to herself.
I've been watching Poldark on PBS and found myself thinking of that show as I read this story.
Holt's story has no clear villain as in Poldark which makes it probably closer to reality.
Kerensa is probably both her own worst enemy as well as heroine.I really enjoyed this book!
Certain elements were predictable but the unfolding events were well-crafted enough for this to not matter.One episode near the end of the book, which I won’t describe in detail as it would serve as a spoiler, had potential to be ten times more enthralling than it actually transpired to be, owing to Ms Holt underplaying it.
She becomes self-obsessed, though not always regarding her own desires, but about how she thinks the likes of her brother should be living his life the way *she*, not he, thinks is right.I did start to like her again near the end of the tale, with some feelings of sympathy returning.
This is the story of Kerensa Carlee, an young orphaned child who left the fishing village she was born and raised in, with her young brother, after the death of her father.
Life with Granny Bee, a wise woman, is good.
Kerensa is happy but ambituous and dreams of living in the Abbas, the former Cornish convent which is now owned by the St. Larnston family, and which is home to the six virgins, a stone circle which is said to be the ancient bodies of 6 virgins who, having lost their virginity, were found out and while dancing in the field in defiance were turned to stone.
The seventh virgin was a nun that was walled up and left to die a slow death in the convent walls.
If you're a gothic romance enthusiast, they don't make 'em better than this.
Holt, also writing under the pseudonym Jean Plaidy and Phillipa Carr infuses her romances with regional and historical references.The Legend of the Seventh Virgin spins the tale of strong willed cottage girl, Kerensa Carlee.
Kerensa is fascinated by the ancient home of the local nobility, the Abbas, with a wing that used to house a nunnery.
Her elevation is not all she'd hoped for and the climax is a fast paced surprise ending.Alas, no vampires, werewolves, S & M enthusiasts, just basic, entertaining gothic romance!
I have to admit myself rather unimpressed by this book.
What I think was meant to be a twist at the end was blazingly obvious and the final couple of chapters were just plain anticlimatic.Frankly, the book would've been far better if the nutcase had managed to wall her up and we'd been able to witness her last suffocating moments.
Possibly that's not very nice, but it would've made for a better book!Anyway, this is one that I don't regret reading, but won't bother to recommend because it's just not that good.
