https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510605.The_Mystery_of_the_Screaming_Clock
This one was surprising.
However, about halfway through it picked up and turned into one of the better Three Investigator novels.A "screaming clock" is brought into the junkyard.
Rather than an alarm sounding, this clock screams.
We do have another teenage boy introduced, but this time hes from Cali just like the other boys, so no exotic cultures this time.
(One threatens them with a blowtorch for example.) We also see the return of a familiar villain, which was a pleasant surprise.I didn't like (view spoiler)[ the way the villain just walked at the end.
(hide spoiler)]The series still has some surprises left, and I look forward to future volumes!
Jupiter comes across a clock that screams-which leads the three investigators to a set of mysterious messages and another exciting mystery. This was a very enjoyable read. I didn't quite figure out what the puzzles (except one set) might turn out to be and even the puzzle leading to the denouement was very well done. This has to be my favourite in this series so far.
Spannende Rätsel.
Das Buch wurde zum Ende hin noch recht spannend, eigentlich genau in dem Moment, in dem Hugenay auftauchte. Überhaupt fand ich die Interaktionen zwischen Hugenay und Justus sehr interessant.
2009 review - I had it in my head that this and “Talking Skull” are the weakest Arthur books but, upon re-reading this as an adult, I don’t think that’s the case.
I really enjoyed this re-read and it seems to me (certainly following my reading of “Silver Spider” and “Talking Skull”) that Arthur is at his best when the boys are near to HQ, with the action taking place in Rocky Beach and Hollywood.
Good stuff.2018 update - an overdue and welcome re-read, I agree with the previous comments and would highly recommend this.
Ijak #5Asyik, asyik sekali novelnya :DSetelah biasanya berkutat dengan novel misteri bertema pembunuhan, rasanya menyegarkan membaca novel Trio Detektif. Bagi mereka rasanya apapun bisabdijadikan misteri :) bahkan jam beker pun ternyata juga menjadi misteri yang asyik dan menegangkan. Rasanya ingin balik jadi kecil lagi dan berlarian di lapangan sambil tertawa keras - keras hahaha.
I personally thought that the book was very well described. The author described the setting clearly and made it easy to picture where the characters where standing. I would recommend to read it.
Klasika z "arthurovského" pera. Tieto prvé diely sú esenciou toho, prečo som dlhé hodiny rozmýšľala ako zakomponovať do príbehu dievčenskú postavu, ktorá by dobrodružstvá prežívala s nimi.
2009 review - I had it in my head that this and “Talking Skull” are the weakest Arthur books but, upon re-reading this as an adult, I don’t think that’s the case.
Characterisation is good - it’s nice to see Hugenay again after “Stuttering Parrot” (and it’s a shame he never appeared again) - it’s well written, there’s some nice interplay between the lads and there are a couple of decent action sequences.
I really enjoyed this re-read and it seems to me (certainly following my reading of “Silver Spider” and “Talking Skull”) that Arthur is at his best when the boys are near to HQ, with the action taking place in Rocky Beach and Hollywood.
Membaca lagi buku ini setelah lewat bertahun-tahun :DKisahnya diawali dengan ditemukannya jam weker yang bunyinya menjerit oleh Jupe.
Lalu ada pesan yang menyertai jam itu.
Pesan dari Albert Clock sang pemilik jam menjerit untuk Rex, agar bertanya pada Imogene, Gerald dan Martha.
Ketiganya ternyata mendapatkan pesan yang berbeda dari Albert Clock.Pesan kepada Imogene:It's quiet there even in a hurricaneJust a word of advice, politely givenOld english bowmen loved itBigger than a raindrop, smaller than an oceanI'm 26.
almost, not quiteRangkaian pesan tsb ternyata menunjukkan tempat dimana Albert menyembunyikan lukisan2 berharga yang dicurinya.
Lalu fungsi jam menjerit ?
untuk mengeluarkan lukisan2 itu dari tempat persembunyiannya :D
+ceritanya berawal dr hal kecil-hal biasa saja, berkembang mengikuti imajinasi Jupe dan mengawali petualangan Trio Detektif.
mereka mengasah kemampuan berimajinasi dengan mengikuti permainan pikiran dan menciptakan petualangan..+ini merupakan satu theme 'teka-teki'-sayang, pengisahan-nya agak kurang mengajak pembaca menjadi bagian dari cerita Trio Detektif.
saya cek di bukunya, yang ada hanya nama Alfred Hitchcock, tidak ada nama penulis lain.
Jadi saya tidak tahu siapa penulis buku yang ini.
Penggunaan kalimat tidak langsung lebih dominan ketimbang seri lainnya sehingga saya tidak merasakan kesan seperti biasa seperti "I am part of them" -- mungkin ini kesan yang dirasakan Alfred Hitchcock saat membaca laporan Bob..
Re read
Mereka mengungkap sebuah kasus yg bersumber dari jeritan sebuah jam.
Jam yg biasanya berdering ini, mengeluarkan sebuah suara jeritan yg menurut mereka adalah sebuah hal yg misterius.
Berangkat dari ketertarikan dan rasa penasaran mereka, akhirnya jeritan jam tersebut membawa mereka pada sebuah kasus besar pencurian lukisan dengan harga yg fantastis.Menarik.
Ceritanya ringan dan ringkas sehingga tidak memerlukan waktu lama untuk menghabiskannya.
Walau ringkas, namun pengungkapan misterinya tetap menarik dan membuat pembaca penasaran.
Bacaab ringan namun bernas ini seru sekali untuk dibaca saat selingan.
Saya jadi tertarik untuk membaca cerita misteri lain dari Trio Detektif.
I had never heard of Robert Arthur until I found a tattered copy of this book in a pile that was being given away. I remembered the old Alfred Hitchcock television show and decided to give it a try. It turned out to be a fun mystery for young adults, not a major work by any means but still an entertaining enough read on a snowy afternoon.
Toto bolo oveľa zábavnejšie (pre mňa) než Brezinovi 4 kamaráti v akcii. Aj keď poslednú kapitolu sme museli čítať dva večere po sebe, lebo prvý večer mladý zaspal a nepočul riešenie záhady.
A classic Three Investigators tale: riddles with solid threat and tension.
A classic Three Investigators tale: riddles with solid threat and tension.
A screaming clock, an art thief and a wrongly imprisoned man. Great mystery
Sometimes ya just need a little light nostalgia
I liked this mystery better than the Nancy Drew novel I read. I liked the riddles to solve the mystery.
I read this and every other book of the series when I was in grade school. They were not required reading but they were suggested reading at the time.
Ini buku ketiga yang gw baca dari seri tiga detektif. Kali ini Jupiter, Bob, & Pete menyelidiki misteri tentang jam weker menjerit. Awalnya misteri ini sangat sederhana dan kurang menarik, tetapi ternyata banyak misteri yang meliputinya. Mereka bertiga, harus menjawab teka-teki dari surat-surat yang dikirim oleh pemilik jam weker kepada beberapa temannya. Dan kali ini, nuansa detectivenya lebih terasa. Banyak teka- teki yang harus dipecahkan. Gw suka banget.
This Screaming Clock addition to the Three Investigators series is a classic.
Jupiter wants to know the background of a weird piece of junk in the Jones Salvage Yard, in other words one screaming alarm clock, and by the time he unravels all of the clues and all of the mysteries, he and his companions had solved several riddles, recovered some stolen artwork, placed two gangs of crooks behind bars and freed their new friend's innocent father.
I could not help by play along when the boys tried to solve the riddles, and I did acceptable well at it, but in the end I must applaud Robert Arthur's brilliant writing.
Why I Reread This Book: I'm on an ongoing Three Investigators kick.Goodreads says I rated this three stars on 2007-09-11.
I suspect this is because author Robert Arthur worked in the world of radio drama for years.
This book gives us a few "behind the scenes" glimpses of that world, which had already largely vanished by the time this book was published, 45 years ago as of this review.(Finished 2013-03-03 08:21:15.6 EST.
Approximately.)(Previous rating: 3 stars on Goodreads, 2007-09-11.)
Das ursprüngliche Zuhause dieser Rezension ist der WortWelten-Blog: http://wort-welten.blogspot.de/Zusammenfassung:Als Justus in einer alten Trödelkiste einen seltsamen Wecker findet, der schreit statt zu klingeln, ahnen die drei Detektive aus Rocky Beach noch nicht, welch hochbrisanter Fall damit seinen Anfang nimmt.
Erst ein Experte für Schreie in Film und Fernsehen und ein jugendlicher Auftraggeber später kommen die drei Jungen allmählich dem Geheimnis um den schreienden Wecker auf die Spur.
Ganz klar - ein neuer spannender Fall im Universum der drei Fragezeichen aus Rocky Beach ...Fazit:Ich glaube, ich muss so etwa elf gewesen sein - immerhin schon fast zwöf Jahre her -, als ich bei einer guten Freundin erstmals dem Hörspiel zu diesem Buch lauschen durfte.
Saya masih ingaaat...sudah lebih dari 1 dekade dan saya masih ingat.Terakhir saya membabat habis koleksi Trio Detektif di perpustakaan sekolah waktu SMP kelas 1.
Waktu itu saya menganggap cerita misteri jeritan jam ini keren sekali.Jadi ceritanya adalah Jupiter dan kawan-kawan menemukan jam beker bekas.
Jupiter penasaran, kenapa ada orang yang mau-maunya membuat jam yang bisa menjerit seperti itu.
Melibatkan beberapa aksi kekerasan dan penculikan oleh penjahat-penjahat profesional, serta barang berharga bernilai jutaan dolar.Dulu saya punya impian untuk mengoleksi serial detektif ini sampai komplit.
Tapi sayang waktu itu bukunya sudah sulit didapat dan toko buku sangat jauh.
Untung sekarang sudah dicetak ulang lagi, tapi toko bukunya tetap jauh sih XD.
I'm not typically a reader of mysteries, and especially not a reader of Alfred Hitchcock or anything remotely resembling horror / fear.
I read this one to sort of get the "feel" for the series, and found it clever.
Although the title denotes inclusion of Alfred Hitchcock, the author is actually Robert Arthur.
Alfred Hitchcock is included as a minor character in the book.
Perhaps he is a minor character in all of the books in the series, hence his name being included in the title.
This book has a "Hardy Boys" or "Nancy Drew" feel.
I highly recommend this book for any boy (or girl) who likes a clever mystery.
The narration unleashes the plot in a way that keeps you involved all through till the end.
The last but not the least their re-encounter with the greatest opponent, the three investigators ever dealt with.As in all other cases Jupiter digs into practically harmless things to come up with a case that ends up being so interesting that one is forced to read the book in one go.
The book can be enjoyed to the maximum only if one tries to solve the mystery along with the three investigators.
Trying to solve the mystery yourself while reading the book is the best way to enjoy this book.
I had it in my head that this and “Talking Skull” are the weakest Arthur books but, upon re-reading this as an adult, I don’t think that’s the case.
Certainly, it’s not as sensational as the other stories and sticks resolutely close to home (coming off of the Varania trip), but it’s a solid mystery, showing the boys detecting skills perfectly, though the story itself relies quite heavily on chance.
Characterisation is good - it’s nice to see Hugenay again after “Stuttering Parrot” (and it’s a shame he never appeared again) - it’s well written, there’s some nice interplay between the lads and there are a couple of decent action sequences.
Worth a read.
I loved these Three Investigators books when I was a kid (growing up in England, they had the almost-contemporary American allure that was missing from similar Enid Blyton adventures), so when I found this on a friend's bookshelves while staying over one weekend, I could not resist rereading it late at night (though not, unfortunately, under the covers with a torch).This is a grand adventure: just enough action and fright to be believable, and with a solid case of clues and deduction to work on.
