https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140400.Witch
This has been my favorite Barbara Michaels novel so far.
A ghost story, a lesson on mass hysteria, and a mystery, with a little romance thrown in for good measure.
Once I got started I couldn't put it down.
A strong female main character dispels the Gothic critics who roll their eyes at many novels written in this era.
While we do have a man come to help out in a time of crisis, he is hardly an alpha male.
Some feminist comments here and there, common for that era of time, but otherwise a fast moving, suspenseful novel.
Well.... it's happened everybody. I promised myself that I would never give a 1 star review for a book. I really tried to like this book, but it was painful to even get to the end. Barbara Michaels'  Witch  is set in rural Virginia, where Ellen March purchases a farmhouse to reside in with lots of land, with a humble, quaint, small town atmosphere. Prior to purchasing the house, Ellen is warned by the current owner about the rumors surrounding the property—the myth of a witch's ghost haunting th
Prior to purchasing the house, Ellen is warned by the current owner about the rumors surrounding the property—the myth of a witch's ghost haunting the premises.
Unfazed, Ellen excitedly purchases the property and seeks to set a new life for herself.
As her time at her new property lingers, Ellen quickly finds out that a witch would be the least of her problems.Alright alright alright—this book bored me to death.
The other excruciating focus of this book for me was that it was hardly about the witch and more about Ellen's drama with her neighbors.

There's not usually a cutesy feel that would explain it - perhaps it's the old houses, hot tea and feline companions?
Generally there are several people in the house solving the mystery together, batting ideas off each other with witty comments, hidden insults, but bigger affections.
Not much action save personal issues is happening, and for some reason I'm always enraptured with the details Michaels writes about when redecorating these old houses.
The end villain was a culprit I never would have suspected.Overall this is a more than memorable book; it has elements of a cozy mystery that's simple in its telling and psychologically twisted in its revelation.
At one point in my life, she was an auto-buy, must-read author for me, and although I started reading her in the late 1980s/early 1990s, it was her early stuff from the 1970s that I liked the best.
The story is about a rich divorcee, Ellen March, who has been acting as housekeeper/nanny for her late sister's husband (whom she has a giant crush on), decides to buy a house in the foothills of Virginia.
Luckily her teenaged daughter, Penny, shows up in the last quarter of the book to figure things out, because Ellen needs all the help she can get.
It's so great when an old favorite does not disappoint. I've always thought of Witch as one of my favorites and now I remember why. What great characters: Good guys and Bad Guys alike. I wish she had done a follow up or two, like with Ammie Come Home.
An extremely average book with lots of implausible plot solutions.
All I can say is it ended too soon! There was so much more of the story I wanted to know. The main story was good and satisfying but I really wish there had been an epilogue.
Then she peoples them with amazing characters and comes up with books you can't put down.When Ellen March gets her first look at the secluded house in the woods, she instantly falls in love and insists on buying it.
A very troubled boy who appears to have extremely violent and disturbing tendancies immediately fires up Ellen's maternal streak and she gets involved, trying to get Norman to take the boy for therapy.All the underlying fears and anger come to a shocking and explosive climax, which moves very fast and keeps the reader flying through the pages to see how things turn out, who was the real evil villain, and how things end.
I just finished re-reading this after I don't know how long.
The main character, Ellen, is moving to a new town and finds when she gets there that the house she's bought is the town's "haunted house".
It was a good read - you can feel Ellen's excitement while she tries to make a home in a small town and how different it is for her, coming from the city.
As the story moved along, it was easy to keep reading; I wanted to see what happened.
It was the kind of book that's nice to read on a rainy afternoon ...
This was the first Barbara Michaels book I ever read. I think I must have been 14 or so, and my mom's best friend loaned it to her and I picked it up. Barbara Michaels/Elizabeth Peters got me through adolescence, and I'll always have a fond memory for this book in particular.
The last third of the book is riveting...and the big twist was excellent. A great read.
This book is less of a ghost story and more about the fear of stagnant southern small town ideology and mob psychology. Good read; adore the author.
The plot twist was really obvious, but the way the book was written allowed for suspense anyways. A fun, creepy read, and I loved all of the cats!

Better than I expected. It had a gothic feel with a dose of witchcraft. The ending was satisfying. The book was a quick read and I enjoyed it.
This is one of the few Barbara Michaels titles that I hadn't read before. Yes, it's dated and flawed, but I still had fun reading it.
I love these books and start salivating the minute the house is introduced.
This seventies haunted house has a great garden:Pale-white stars of dogwood shimmered against the green background of the pines, and sprays of wild cherry and apple shook feathery branches over the car.
The house is old (from the Revolution), completely isolated and comes with thirty acres of Gothic greenery.
Thirty acres!!
But remember: thirty acres!
I'm not saying this is the most sophisticated masterpiece I've ever read, but it is well-written and dryly humorous, and I loved every minute of it, so five-star rating it is.
It shows, in the formulaic nature of the book.
That's not necessarily a bad thing, as the formula is a successful one.
Just be prepared to figure things out early on.This is not a horror novel, or even a ghost story.
All is not bliss, though, as Ellen soon runs afoul of the town's leading citizens with her freespirited nature and befriending of the town delinquent.
Things quickly get out of hand, due to the machinations of one driven by a most ancient motivation.A somewhat dated story, Witch is still a perfectly fine way to spend a leisurely evening or two.
I requested this from the library because it was the only one by Barbara Michaels that I didn't have marked "read" on here.
As it turns out, I have read it at some point in the past, but it still held up very well, despite some things being somewhat dated - not surprising considering that it was published in 1973.
I particularly like the fact that so many of her heroines are not 20-something ingenues (though she has her share), and also the cats.
Almost every book has cats (and the ones that don't have dogs, and some have both), and it's so obvious from her portrayal that she knows and loves them.
This is a classic work by a wonderful writer. Just enough suspense and supernatural to make you believe, yet question. An old Virginia house formerly owned by a supposed witch attracts a divorcee who stirs up something in the local town. As is true in many things not everyone is who they seem. This one was definitely worth re-reading.
I have enjoyed Barbara Michaels for years. She does a nice ghost story, not too carried away. I believe that I have read all of her books over the years & a reread is a trip down memory lane.
Loved itI really enjoyed this book! Such a great twist at the end. I fell in love with the characters and didn't want it to end.
Ellen is quite possibly one of the most arrogant and stupid characters.
She's a former social worker who is under the delusion that pretending to be a fortune teller or witch won't bring down the wrath of a local religious cult on her and her family's heads.
Or that the local budding seriel killer is not a huge risk factor to invite into her home.
Worse, Ellen by the novel actually admits she's stupid!
It really is pure drivel and certainly not one of Michaels' better novels.
The only word I can think of for the dialogue is ridiculous, it’s like bad Jane Austen fan fiction “I daren’t hope that...”The plot is that 38 year old Ellen March moves to quaint home in a rural town in Virginia, where legend has it, a witch lived 200 years ago.
It was scary in the sense of child abuse and how group mentality can escalate, but the name of the book is deceiving.Also, there is a particularly upsetting description of Prudence Muller, where Ellen mocks her weight, clothes, and personality.
I don’t recommend this book if you want a supernatural thriller.
First of all, I really enjoyed Barbara Michaels storytelling.
Her way of introducing you to characters, old houses, and cats is quite refreshing.
This alone makes me want to read more of her work.
Now while I did enjoy this novel, the title is a little misleading.
I anticipated finding out more about this "witch" or at least expected more supernatural things happening to the main character, Ellen.
The story was still good and I never felt a sense of bordom while reading, but I did feel an ounce of disappointment when I got the hint that this was a very MILD ghost story.
It is what it is though; A light, enjoyable read.
This was a great read!
It captured attention from the first chapter and never let it go.
I would really like to see how the town was held accountable for it's actions.
And as a reader I was suspicious from the start there was something strange in that family and that house.
I wonder if Peabody is the same family as in Amelia Peabody series or just a nod to the other author's pen name?Nevertheless, story is great and reminded me  Devil May Care a lot.Heroine is very likable and all her family is great!
I liked that mystic part about Mary too.
Phycology of the crowd is very well captured.
I'm still mind-blown by the fact that Barbara Michaels and Elizabeth Peters are the same person, so of course the writing is outstanding. She always treks a good story and this is no exception. Gave me a little twist at the end I wasn't expecting.
Starts out rather interesting and then goes downhill.Perfect though if you want a mystery [figured out most if by the middle of the book] that requires little attention and can be read in just a few hours, this is for you.
Somewhat dated, occasionally goofy, but compulsively readable = Barbara Michaels in a nutshell.
