https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64794.Dancing_Wu_Li_Masters
The happiest thought I take out of this book is the fact that science is no longer taking a direction opposite to that of religion, philosophy or spirituality - all the noblest endeavors of mankind were fundamentally tied together after all.
Also, Zukav seems to feel that repeating an idea or concept three times is the best way to convey it to the lay person.Except for these peeves, it was magnificent to look at Einstein, Bohr, Heisenberg etc not as scientists discussing theories and experiments but as philosophers arguing over the nature of reality and mysticism.
But Capra, in The Tao of Physics, still clung to the S-matrix ideas, and every time the book was reprinted he would add forewords and afterwords that were more and more out of touch with reality, claiming that history had shown that the S-matrix approach was the one true way, when in fact QCD had knocked it out of the park.
Then Zukav followed Capra, and wrote this book.Woit, evidently tearing his hair out, says that both books are still selling well, and that, although S-matrix theory is now completely discredited, it embarrassingly lives on as "nutty New Age philosophy".I read Zukav's book in the early 80s, and I wasn't that impressed, though I had no idea that it was this much at odds with mainstream physics.
Interesting book, but I wasn't as 'wowed' by it as some were."If this is so, then the distinction between scientists, poets, painters, and writers is not clear.
In fact, it is possible that scientists, poets, painters, and writers are all members of the same family of people whose gift it is by nature to take those things which we call commonplace and to re-present them to us in such ways that our self-imposed limitations are expanded.
Those people in whom this gift is especially pronounced, we call geniuses."3 Stars = I'm glad I read it.
I can't even dignify this book with an inclusion on my 'science' bookshelf. Surely, the most dangerous rhetoric is that which sounds plausible. 'Dancing Wu Li Masters' does the whole "Ancient Chinese Secret" treatment of particle physics that was so popular during the 1970s. Unfortunately, I worry that too many who read this bestseller were irrevocably taken with an esoteric, transcendental, and ultimately fallacious interpretation of contemporary science.
This is a book that lightly, and perhaps appropriately, suggests a connection between eastern religions and the developments in 20th century physics, notably Einstein's theories of relativity, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, and the collective effort, from Max Planck through Einstein to Nils Bohr and many others, to develop quantum theory, quantum mechanics and other dimensions of "quantum" reality.The fundamental issue is that logic breaks down in the quantum world.
We dream in gravity-defying dimensions that also take us back in time.The eastern religions enter the picture describing everything that we take note of as illusion...or a veil...or the Tao...the path...all in motion...all self-transforming...all becoming as opposed to all permanent and present.Sometimes books like this one capture us because we think they will be fairly easy primers, sexed up with lots of provocative speculation.
Made an otherwise complicated subject readily readable for me, even eager for more. The simple analogies and examples created that feeling of an epiphany, as in: "OK, I get it now!" Beautiful.Since it's been over 30 years since I read this, it's time to re-new. Can never know too much about quantum physics. Or its relationship to philosophy.
Zukav argues that experiencing reality through, perhaps, meditation and eastern religious metaphors, may lead to a greater degree of "knowing" or enlightenment, as the case may be.
Basically, quantum mechanics argues we know really nothing about the essence of reality, so anything could be and maybe anything in actually is real.
There's a quote in the book that I will post in my office and spread around my scientific camp, and it's worth thinking and mulling over."Reality" is what we take to be true.
What we look for depends upon what we think.
What we think depends upon what we perceive.
What we take to be true is our reality.
From his completely nonsensical leaps from point to point, to his annoying tendency to follow each mention of "matter" with "(pun?)" to his pseudo-knowledge of quantum mechanics and belief that randomness = free will to his decision not to explain the uncertainty principle in any way that might make sense and make it seem less mystical to his just plain terrible writing and awful, irrelevant quotations I can safely say that this is the worst piece of snake oil I've ever read (granted, I didn't finish it so maybe the last 100 pages were all about how the first half was a complex joke).
It also brought back horrific, repressed memories of reading The Holographic Universe (a book in which the author had absolutely no knowledge of how either holographs or the universe might possibly work).If you want quantum mechanics, read QED by Feynman.
When a writer can make something I believed inaccessible to me seem like dinner conversation in which I can participate, I'm thrilled to the core. Thanks to Gary Zukav. Without him, many other books I've read would never have made sense at all. How could I have approached The Elegant Universe without having read this first? How could I sit down at Thanksgiving with my high-energy physicist brother without having read this book?
His humor is cloying and totally unnecessary.Still, if you're interested in the history of physics--from Newton to Einstein to the birth of quantum mechanics--this is the book to read.
The Dancing Wu Li Masters (history of physics + good discussion of Einstein + good intro to quantum mechanics)2.
His intro to quantum mechanics is good enough, but that will be covered in more detail later.Hawking rushes through the history of physics so you really need Zukav as a primer.
I'm halfway through it now and it's pointing towards a unification of general relativity with quantum mechanics (aka quantum gravitation).I began reading Brian Greene's book but realized that Zukav and Hawking really must come first.
I knew going into it that he wrote this book with a particular readership in mind but to my surprise, I felt like I actually could have used MORE math, MORE in-depth explanation, and less sweeping extrapolation; this is no fault of the author's though, and I will have to credit him with encouraging me to study physics in greater depth.In summary: a superb, well-written introduction to new physics, whose only flaw (to my tastes at least) is a penchant for applying the knowledge to big-picture philosophical levels-- which isn't really something that anyone as clearly fascinated by the discovery of these new physics as Zukav is can be faulted for :)
I couldn't stop thinking about updates and what recent theories have added to the discussion.
That said, the book wasn't what I was expecting.
What was the unifying theory behind the whole book?
Maybe I'm supposed to put the book down and meditate on it.
I did, however, love the different explanation/definitions for Wu Li. That was perfect and I wanted the entire book to reflect that - and I believe that there was an attempt made to do that, but it fell flat for me.
I also loved the fact that every chapter was Chapter One. But the book is definitely dated.
( How I wish I had done that 8 years before!)In one sentence, this book had similar effect on me as far science is concerned, as Sophie's World had on me for Philosophy.Gary Zukav not only introduces the difficult concepts of Quantum Mechanics and the theory of Relativity in a simplistic layman-language, but also presents the new concepts of modern physics with lucid and vivid illustrations that Physics becomes a pleasant reading.
The Dancing Wu Li Masters is a book about quantum physics and metaphysics, in which, as far as I can tell, all of the physics is correct, and, ironically, everything else is uniformly wrong.
Gary Zukav, if he had written the previous sentence, would have replaced the word "ironically" with "therefore." His characteristic error is to invent an analogy to describe a quantum concept, then claim that the analogy is literally true.
At this point, Zukav wrote a sentence that should cause any author to question the value of his occupation: "Nonsense is nonsense only when we have not yet found that point of view from which it makes sense." Allow me to retort: A token of gratitude would kindly inquire something about you.
Frustrating because the mind grasps quicker what can be conveyed through language.
Frustrating because, something clicks, your mind abstractly grasps the idea, but when trying to convey these exciting new concepts to friends and loved ones, you feel grossly inadequate.
Seriously mind-blowing, in our scientific quest to find out the fundamental building block of all matter we reach the startling conclusion (though not so startling if familiar with the Upanishads): spirit--non physical realm of pure-potentiality--wave lengths stretching through different dimensions.
Written for those unaccustomed to physics and mathematical language, the book stays in the realm of science while inferring possibilities that are nothing less than life-transformative.
This is an amazing book and amazing so, because it revitalized the science training within me!
As a teenager, I was so absorbed and completely fascinated by Neils Bohr's postulates, Max Planck's Theory that Physics was the air i breathed!
This book truly is meant for the ordinary layman who is or was never a science student!
What science really means in the life of a student and a researcher versus in the ordinary life of a layman, this book completely closes gaps on it!
What a wonderful lucid style of explaining modern physics!
Clearly, one of the best resource books for everyone!
The annoying this about this book is that mostly it's wonderful. Gary Z has a clear, lucid prose style, and his explanation of wave-particle duality etc is as good as any I've come across. So when he says that subatomic particles are "conscious" or that he believes in telepathy, it's that much more frustrating. I have a number of very bright friends who get taken in by New Age snake oil because of careless use of language in a book like this.
Nice read. Great introduction to physics for someone who has no idea how it applies to everyday life.
Zukav did a surprisingly competent job describing physics in laymen terms that it is hard to believe he is not in the STEM field at all.
Even though the book is published almost 40 years ago, some of the discussions have not changed much.
A recent poll of physicists on the interpretation of quantum mechanics still checks all the boxes on page 335 — the possible implications of Bell’s Theorem.
That said, the book has many things to nitpick.
The distorted notion of many interpretations of the word “Wu Li” (Chinese for physics) is utterly wrong, annoying, and frankly stupid.

I have a lot of mixed feelings about this book. On one hand, it was a readable introduction to quantum physics. On the other, it was really snooty about "those close-minded scientists" in a way that really made me angry. It saves itself from a three star rating because I am now more curious about quantum physics and want to read more.
Re-reading, I would not say the science it re-reveals to the "ordinary reader" is obsolete, rather, needs updates, but of course that is not the author's fault.
Gary Zukav in several places reiterates that mathematics is not needed to read (and understand) his book, however, it is not for the ordinary non-mathematics reader either.
But, it is not a new age book either, which relinquishes science into the hands of eastern beliefs or religion.
Claiming new physics and eastern beliefs perhaps "touch" each other is not a crime for either.As to its language, as much as it claims to simplify itself and repeats expressions to makes the reader comprehend, it does sometimes get on one's nerves.
Not an easy read but sooo full of awesome new physics explanations.
If you want clear explanations of quantum mechanics, relativity, and particle physics and Feynman diagrams (with a dose of Eastern philosophy and some Buddhism) look no further than this excellent book.
A lot of the foot-notes were contributed by big physicist names and I really enjoyed them, having a physics background.
Most of this book is review of stuff I learned in my undergrad and a year into my grad, but it was a refreshing reminder of all these amazing discoveries that have just happened in about the last hundred years.
The book explains the Wu Li is Chinese for Physics. A rather interesting book, but not a real easy read. It does a pretty good job of discussing topic related to quantum physics in laymen language. I particularly liked the chapters related to Einstein's theories of relativity.The interesting twist to this book is how it relates the process that quantum physicists work and come up with theories to eastern philosophies.
Brutally terrible. Do yourself a favor and shred it before opening to the first page. I'd have given it 0 stars if that was possible. Typical wacko hippie crap disguised (poorly) as quantum mechanics. And the writing! It hurts to think about it.
Damn good !
Hmmm. There's no such thing as matter, Damn G.
Muddling science with belief can become tedious, especially in this volume.
Some of his explanations should be useful as a connecting thread for a more detailed treatment.I started reading it in the middle of july it is middle of october now and I could not finish reading the last 10 or so pages, the connection he was trying to establish between physics and the old wisdom became too suffocating -- to which he might have said, "Nonsense is that which does not fit into the prearranged patterns which we have superimposed on reality." Anyways, I think there are still interesting parts here and there, some are as follows:1."Physical concepts are free creations of the human mind, and are not, however they may seem, uniquely determined by the external world.
It's a book for the fans-- for people who wonder in awe at the nature of the universe and want to know more about all this cool weird shit going in at the subatomic level while still keeping our day jobs.
[Responding to some 2* reviews, here]But if you think physics is super cool and you want to get a good historical overview of how quantum theory came to be....
The scope of the book will still do well to give you a solid basis on which to go read about the standard model or string theory later if you want.
