https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48467.Wise_Blood
After reading just a few pages of this book I kept thinking to myself Hazel Motes is doomed.  First of all he is the lead character in a Flannery O'Connor novel. The only thing that could be worst is if he were the lead character in a Jim Thompson novel. The poor bastard hasn't got a chance. For one thing he's got the wrong look to him. "His black hat sat on his head with a careful, placed expression on his face had a fragile look as if it might have been broken and stuck together again, or lik
"His black hat sat on his head with a careful, placed expression on his face had a fragile look as if it might have been broken and stuck together again, or like a gun no one knows is loaded." Haze decides that he is an atheist and to prove he is irreligious he sleeps with loose women.
When Haze discovers that Preacher Asa Hawks faked his own blindness I could swear I heard the last snaps of the ropes holding Motes's mind in place come loose.
Of course, God has already selected Motes as a member of his posse, so he eventually cannot help but crawl toward the most savage acts of masochism and self-deprivation in order to achieve a thumbs-up from his creator.
Of course, Motes has been programmed from an early age to believe that god has already selected him as a member of his posse, so he eventually (foolishly, depressingly) cannot help but crawl toward the most savage acts of masochism and self-deprivation in order to achieve a thumbs-up from his supposed creator.
In a way, it reminded me of Marilynne Robinson’s Home, a novel written in beautiful prose, delivering realistic portraits of people who do not see that it is possible not only NOT to believe in Christianity’s dogma, but also to be quite happy, and free of guilt outside its limits.
In Robinson’s as in O’Connor’s world, you can be an atheist, but you are a distinctly CHRISTIAN atheist committing the SIN of NON-BELIEF, and you stay within the boundaries of Christianity’s ancient morality and mythical foundations.
One wonders however if Hazel gets some kind of enlightenment towards the end when he says, "If there's no bottom in your eyes, they hold more."I think that Ms. O'Connor was trying to show that in the insane acts of Hazel (which include murder) and his ultimate mimicry of the blind preacher, that truth cannot be obtained by looking for it in others (as both Enoch and Sabbath and Mrs. Flood do with their devotion to Hazel at various times in the book), but can only come from oneself.
Hapless IronyFlannery O'Connor was a woman who knew her world.
O'Connor knew how these people act in this world, and how they speak, and, more important, what they are completely unaware and incapable of.
Enoch Emery's pointless attachment to Haze and his bizarre interpretation of what's needed to help him succeed are symptoms of an insanity equally evident in recent American political rallies.The suspicion-laden, functionally autistic interactions we have every day - on public transport, walking down the street, in run of the mill commercial transactions - are essentially no different from those of O’Connor’s country bumpkins.
Certainly the "Blue Velvet" in the literary realm, "Wise Blood" has an OVERWHELMING SIMPLICITY that seems truly out of this world.
O'Connor expertly places all these annoying wind-up toys near each other--see them bump and grind and sometimes line up in a maniacal precision that repeats and repeats-- and what we get is a very complex nightmare, almost hitting the true nerve of (my personal champion of all literary categories) Southern Goth.
It is true brethren to the Faulkner's masterpiece, "As I Lay Dying"--a true mesh of the best of Pynchon (the most iconographic that is), the silliest of Beckett, er, maybe Pinter, & (why not?) the most macabre of Hawthorne...
but a true original by All rights.
522. Wise Blood, Flannery O’ConnorWise Blood is the first novel by American author Flannery O'Connor, published in 1952. The novel was assembled from disparate stories first published in Mademoiselle, Sewanee Review and Partisan Review. The first chapter is an expanded version of her Master's thesis, "The Train", and other chapters are reworked versions of "The Peeler," "The Heart of the Park" and "Enoch and the Gorilla". The novel concerns a returning World War II veteran who, haunted by a life
Wise Blood, Flannery O’ConnorWise Blood is the first novel by American author Flannery O'Connor, published in 1952.
The novel was assembled from disparate stories first published in Mademoiselle, Sewanee Review and Partisan Review.
The novel concerns a returning World War II veteran who, haunted by a lifelong crisis of faith, resolves to form an anti-religious ministry in an eccentric, fictionalized Southern city after finding his family homestead abandoned without a trace.شهود - فلنری اوکانر (نشر نو) ادبیات آمریکا؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نوزدهم ماه نوامبر سال 1989 میلادیعنوان: شهود؛ نویسنده: فلاتری اوکانر؛ مترجم: آذر عالی پور؛ تهران، نشر نو، 1367؛ در 236 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 ماثر را سرکار بانو آذر عالی پور، مترجم رسمی دادگستری، در سال 1367 هجری خورشیدی ترجمه کرده استا.
Fresh from a stint in the army, Hazel Motes starts a religion out of spite and gets entangled with a preacher named Asa Hawks and his teenage daughter, Sabbath.I recently read the exquisite The Summer that Melted Everything and kept thinking of Flannery O'Connor.
However, there were some laughs despite the bleakness, many of them at Enoch Emery's expense.Flannery O'Connor writes some powerful stuff.
However, I didn't think Wise Blood was nearly as good as her short story collection A Good Man is Hard to Find and Other Stories.
Meanwhile, Enoch Emery’s story line branches off into him becoming enamored with, and then literally turning into, a gorilla, which came off as a little slapstick in its presentation and fell flat for me as a whole.Wise Blood seemed to hit the ground running toward something definite and profound from the very first page.
It felt disparate, like it didn’t belong, which, of course, is true since it was originally a separate short story, but it should not have felt that way to the reader.O’Connor’s use of vernacular was spectacular.

"People who haven't grown up in the South, in the Bible Belt particularly, have little understanding of how much a part of the fabric of Southern life religion is." Barry MoserThis novel, I don't mind saying, spooked me a bit.
In any case, such grotesque representations are a signature of Southern gothic novels such as this one as well as of O'Connor's short stories.
Then, out on his own, Enoch steals a gorilla costume under surreal circumstances.For a short time, Motes is drawn to a blind street preacher named Asa Hawks and his teen daughter Sabbath Lily Hawks.
Such a shame she died so young; one can only wonder what stories she left untold.Wise Blood tells the tale of young Hazel Motes, who returns from military service to find he no longer has a place to call home.
So he sets out to make a place for himself in the world and decides he wants to start a new religion, The Church Without Christ where he preaches that “the lame don't walk, the blind don't see, and the dead stay dead!” Trouble with Hazel is, to say he’s slightly off balance is like saying the Pope is slightly religious.
“The only way to the truth is through blasphemy, but do you care?” Ever since  The Ship of Fools  by  Sebastian Brant  and  Praise of Folly  by  Erasmus  the human foolishness keeps disturbing our minds. And with her masterpiece Wise Blood Flannery O'Connor managed to add to this fertile theme truckloads of new stuff.Wise Blood is a detailed story of fools’ misadventures and misfortunes.He had left it when he was eighteen years old because the army had called him. He had thought at first he woul
A preacher’s power is in his neck and tongue and arm.These are solid beliefs of the protagonist.Sometimes he didn’t think, he only wondered; then before long he would find himself doing this or that, like a bird finds itself building a nest when it hasn’t actually been planning to.And these are behaviour patterns of his loyal satellite.When one hasn’t enough intellect to think one starts using instincts of one’s blood…Flannery O'Connor stays completely unsympathetic and wittily murderous all the way through the novel.Society needs its fools with their foolish ways otherwise there would’ve been no scapegoats.
Hazel moves in with a prostitute and then comes across a not-actually-blind preacher and his demented daughter; he becomes obsessed with them.
Hazel moves into the same boarding house as the preacher and his daughter; he and the demented daughter begin a relationship of sorts.
Hazel gets some competition from a shyster and a demented pseudo-preacher of anti-religion.
more demented antics ensue.although the adaptation is basically a faithful one, Huston does take certain liberties here and there, rearranging and changing a few things in the narrative, but mainly messing with the tone of the story.
If that is so Hazel Motes will be okay, he will be unspewed because there is pretty much no moment in Wise Blood when he is not white hot with rage and spouting fiery blasphemy As for the Jesus who was reported to have been born at Bethlehem and crucified on Calvary for man’s sins, Haze said, He was too foul a notion for a sane person to carry in his head.Hazel Motes came back from the war with a brain that wasn’t working properly but you could tell he wasn’t no Dietrich Bonhoeffer before he went.
Lookeere, thisere story iz bout some right weirdazz folks, I declare.
Come ter think, there's right number a things I wasn't quite so sure bout in thisere novel.
I mysef live downchere in tha South, and I right declare as I were readin on this bastard this morning, I did have me several interraptions in which deez folks come in an ey acted right bout like the folks in thisere novel, I swar.
But it seem like Ms. O'Connor, yea she may be a sher cite shy of a load herself, be writin about deez folks with such cornviction, the way she do.
Hazel Motes gets out of the army and arbitrarily goes to a generic southern city to play out his damage.
To say that Hazel Motes eventually addresses matters through recourse to violence gives nothing away.
His last name is Motes, specks of dust in the air, seems an apt metaphor for his lack of direction as well.
Be advised, this book makes liberal use in the early going of the n-word.
At first my sense was that O'Connor knew how these people would speak and what words they would use, and these are the words she used.
I suppose Flannery O'Connor must be considered a Christian writer, as she was a Catholic and Christian themes permeate her books, but her imagination was on fire and she knew how to get those flames into her words and that's really all that matters.
If your eyebrows don't go up and your eyes widen when a character finds his particular salvation by hijacking a Hollywood gorilla suit and burying his clothes in the woods and reemerging as a scary ape then maybe you should consider taking up scrapbooking rather than reading potent literature such as this.
A story of dark and strange staggering beauty.Joy and pain, suffering and redemption.It's has dark cynical humour with characters of outrageous quality.There is plenty of work behind the structure of the story.She has included many issues around her during her time and locality, they are of beauty, child neglect and abuse, racism and police brutality.Watch out for these things as you read this along as you might not pick up what she trying to convey.His large hat and clothing seem to give everyone an idea that he is a preacher and his body seems to imbue that he's a preacher and a believer.
I love this book.
I have no idea what the book is about other than the story told.
Hazel struggles with his relationship to an unknowable deity, like the author's own relationship to her strict Catholic upbringing.
While Enoch's hereditary insanity represents O'Connor's struggles with lupus - a really mean spirited disease.
And Sabbath Lily's struggle with just being a female may be similar to the author's dilemma with her sex.
You can give this book to any ten people, people who like to read novels: 4 will read 20 or 30 pages and throw it in the wastebasket!
daha önce yazarın "iyi insan bulmak zor " adlı öykülerinden oluşan kitabını okumuş ve hayran kalmıştım. nasıl bir roman yazarı olacağını merak ile bu kitaba başladım ve gördüm ki bu alanda da gayet başarılıymış. Yarattığı atmosferden olsa gerek bana Kafka ve Dostoyevski yi anımsatan bu harika bayan aynı zamanda harika bir kara mizah ustası.
I sometimes find it difficult to overcome things that are obviously repulsive but part of the time in which the book is written, but I can do that when there is something there that overreaches that.
This book showed no promise that that was true.
Again, drunkenness and prostitution are subjects I can countenance if they contribute to some greater meaning in the story...didn't see it.I am bailing, after having several trusted friends tell me there wasn't going to be any improvement.
Can't win them all, although this month I have really been having a bad run.
*Disclaimer: I was raised Catholic, so I’m likely predisposed to liking this book.*Disclaimer 2: I watched the shit out of the Poltergeist movies as a kid, so I'm likely predisposed to liking this book as I have a special place in my black heart for Evil Southern Preachers, Wide-Brimmed Hat Division.Wise Blood is so fantastically odd, so tit-stuffed with awful human beings, that it’s astounding that it isn’t loved by more members of the Satanic Underground that I hang out and play Yahtzee with.
Oh, and people who speak like this:"Do you think, Mr. Motes," she said hoarsely, "that when you're dead, you're blind?""I hope so," he said after a minute."Why?" she asked, staring at him.
Wise Blood: Flannery O'Connor's tale of the rejection of grace"God's free initiative demands man's free response"--Catechism of the Catholic Church 2002If Hazel Motes ever read the Catechism of the Catholic Church, he read no more of it than the Bible he carried like a rock in the bottom of his duffel bag.
No divine source necessary.Enoch's uncelestial compass meshes fine with Hazel's church without Jesus where "the deaf don't hear, the blind don't see, the lame don't walk, the dumb don't talk, and the dead stay that way." In a town full of eccentrics, O'Connor ratchets up the action when a former radio preacher tries to horn in on Hazel's church, charging a dollar admission to join.
And how Faith works within each individual is as mysterious and unknowable as the God from which it is supposed to derive its reason and by which it has appeared to have become a felt universal need.But of course, that's just one way of interpreting this novel.
But one's experience of a book depends, in turn, on whether he is a surfer or a diver.
Those who love more the peacefulness of the deep and its hidden secrets.For the divers, therefore, "Wise Blood" is about faith; and for the surfers, it is about insanity.
Flannery OConnor (1925 – 1964)A escritora Flannery OConnor (1925 – 1964) é unanimemente reconhecida como um dos expoentes máximos da literatura norte-americana do século XX, particularmente aclamada pela genialidade dos seus trinta e dois contos, coligidos em dois volumes: “Um Bom Homem É Difícil de Encontrar” e “ Tudo o Que Sobe Deve Convergir”, que combinam o cómico, o violento, o trágico e o brutal.“Sangue Sábio” e o “Céu É dos Violentos” são os seus dois únicos romances publicados e que se i
Motes cresce perseguido pelo pecado, revelando “uma instintiva convicção, negra e profunda, de que a forma de evitar Jesus era evitar o pecado.”As inúmeras personagens que se vão “reunindo” com Hazel Motes apresentam comportamentos estranhos e bizarros, que vão tentando lidar com as sua próprias crises individuais, seja emocional ou espiritual, ou numa conjugação dos dois estados, e com a mentira, a hipocrisia, a vingança e o arrependimento; com destaque para Emoch Emery, um jovem de dezoito anos, tratador num jardim zoológico, detentor do seu “sangue sábio”, para Asa Hawks, um pregador autoproclamado “cego” e a sua degenerada filha Lily Sabbath, para Leora Watts, uma prostituta que lhe dá guarita e para Hoover Shoats, um charlatão, fundador da “Santa Igreja de Cristo sem Cristo”.
Huh. I don't know what to say about this book at all.
I tried reading some of the reviews to see if they helped clarify anything for me, but nobody said much of anything.
I'm still unsure what the point of this book was: what's the critique, what's driving it, what, if anything, am I to take away from it?I've not read O'Connor before, and I don't think I'll be rushing out to get those supposedly fantastic short stories of hers.
Hazel Motes is on that Book magazine list, and here's one more case of me not understanding why.
This was a huge let-down.
Huge, gigantic.
Holy crap and profit! I think Flannery O'Connor could go 10 rounds with Cormac McCarthy and still end with a draw. Wise Blood is an amazing look at sin, heresy, apostasy and redemption(?). No. Redemption might just be too hopeful for this O'Connor. Wise Blood is an amazing reworking of several of her shorter stories, but where this novel might have ended up as some Frankensteinian monster in lesser hands, Wise Blood pulls it off. It is a monster for sure, but you never should confuse a grotesque Southern Gothic masterpiece with a deformed literary Prometheus. This novel is amazing.
What can I say, this woman...Flannery keeps on amazing me, this story is batshit insane to say the least.I can see a young David Lynch devour this one :), it boosts all the surreal elements his films are so famous about.I really really loved it, it certainly deserves a place among my favorite books, and I definitely have to give that John Huston movie a rewatch.Flannery is so gory and kafkaesque I really cannot understand she is so widely accepted by catholic America ?!
And that she definitely read and loved West's Miss Lonelyhearts :)I wanna read everything with her name on it!
Ne kadar korkunç, deli, karanlık, tüyler ürperten, gözlerime yaş getiren, sapasağlam kurgusuyla bir kitap okumaktan ziyade yaşamın içerisinde su gibi akıyormuş hissi veren bir yazar bu böyle!
Daha önce O'conner'ın A Good Man Hard to Find öyküsünü okumuştum sadece, orada hiç beklemediğim sürprizlerle dolu korkulu sonları ne kadar da mahir bir şekilde hazırlayabileceğini görmüş ve yazarı alkışlamıştım.
Bu kitabı okurken de sürekli şok edici sonlar beklemiştim ve yazar bu konuda beni hiç yanıltmadı ama yine de beklediğim her son (hem Haze hem de Enoch, hem de ev sahibesi Mrs. Flood için) beni sarstı, keza karakterlerin sürekli evrilen iç dünyaları da...
Gotik kelimesini her anlamıyla hak eden, derin bir yazar var karşımızda....
