https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/572375.Anglo_Saxon_England
It's a general reader intended to cover the Anglo-Saxon period from the first invasions of Germanic tribes in England to the fall of the country during the Norman Conquest.I say general but this is far from general: this in-depth guide is around 800 pages in length, with small text and hardly any white space.
There's a longish bibliography at the end which is very useful for those wishing to take their studies further.This book is extremely thorough and takes a really long time to slog through, but by the end of it any reader will have a deep understanding and knowledge of the Anglo Saxons and their lives.
Took a good month to gradually nibble away at but proved to be a slow-burn, boil-in-the-bag, banquet...whatever that might be. Stenton has performed a major miracle by transmuting some of the dullest sources known to man, (a-hunting and a-fighting and a-naming chronicles so turgid they make a Neanderthal fireside grunt-and-greet sound like gossipy philosophical fun), into a rather thrilling and interesting historical narrative.Definitely start here before exploring any other books on this period.
For decades if you asked a serious historian a question about Anglo-Saxon England the answer would be, "I'll look in my Stenton." Even today, more than half a century after the book was first published, people still look to Frank Stenton's work for an overview of England between the Romans leaving and the Normans arriving (and it's pretty good on the Conquest too).
Even with all the findings of half a century of archaeology, Stenton's book remains on the reading list of every undergraduate course and deservedly so.
It is still the most substantial survey of the entire Anglo-Saxon period though inevitably skewed towards the last hundred years or so of it.
The section on the immigration and settlement of the Angles, Saxons and mysterious Jutes is going to be substantially out of date, the Oxford History did attempt to remedy this by introducing a supplementary volume just on the settlements in the mid 1980s which wouldn't exactly be au courant now either.
The archeology in particular has moved on, while this has its impact on coin finds and our understanding of the later economy its impact is more dramatic on the earliest period when the written sources are at their slightest.
Mr Stenton shares a wealth of knowledge gleamed from various sources and sets it out in chronological order from the coming of the first Saxons and Germanic tribes through to the reign of the Conqueror, Duke William of Normandy who effectively ended Anglo Saxon England.Unfortunately for me the book does not contain interesting images or photos but there is a useful map of England folded at the end of the book.
As far as I am concerned, it set out to achieve what I hoped it would and that was to fill me with more knowledge about the subject than I already knew.
What a wonderful history.
From picking his way through the years after the Anglo-Saxon conquest of England to his writing on the poetry of the period, Stenton is both interesting and enjoyable to read.
I've never been much one for sitting down with a history book like this, but Stenton's prose, attention to (interesting) detail and depth of sight grabbed me so tightly that I found myself simply reading it for pleasure.
It must be noted, though, that certain of Stenton's ideas, particularly concerning Anglo-Saxon literature, are somewhat less than precise.
As a fairly comprehensive history, the book has kept its value.It covers the Anglo-Saxon age and the reign of William the Conqueror.
The big advantages of going up to 1087 are that it makes for a more coherent picture of the transition to the Anglo-Norman state, a process building on developments earlier in the 11th century; and that it makes it easier to explore how far there was continuity after the Conquest, and how far there was major change.This is a serious work of scholarship.
The narrative chapters are clear, even for the confused period of Anglo-Saxon settlement when a plethora of statelets began to coalesce into larger units.One thing missing from the book is genealogical charts, which might have helped the reader follow some of the narrative history more easily.
Originally published on my blog here in October 2000.For a long time now, the Oxford History of England has been the standard series of reference works on the subject.
Even though, as its introduction states, there was felt to be little need to make changes for this edition (as subsequent discoveries had mainly confirmed Stenton's ideas), that itself was written almost thirty years ago.Taking into account the limitations inherent in its age, Anglo-Saxon England is a truly classic history.
It also has a somewhat old-fashioned outlook, being mainly political and economic; if you want an account of the farming practices of the Anglo-Saxon peasant or of everyday life in a tenth century town you should look elsewhere.
As a classic for the history of Anglo-Saxon England, Stenton's work remains a standard monument.
Beginning with the migrations of the earliest inhabitants of Britain, he moves through the history of the period both chronologically and thematically, weaving various threads throughout the whole narrative.
This last word, indeed, should be emphasized, as the whole book unfolds as a story--albeit told through different lenses, from different thematic perspectives, and moving episodically through the phases.
Although some of the details may need clarification in light of more recent study, after almost seventy years this aspect still rests as the quality of the book: Stenton remains a master story-teller for the Anglo-Saxons.
Don't settle for imitations; this is da bomb for general histories of Saxon England. Great maps.
If you have an interest in this era or need to know more about Anglo Saxon England for research purposes, then this is the book for you. Such an amazing and eternally relevant piece of work.
An old book now but still the best overview of this important period by a mile. Dry but still fascinating. This is period that really must be more prominent . Here we become a nation and a Christian nation too, and a literate nation. This is why Alfred is one of our greatest Britons. This is why we have Saxon and Viking place names. This is why we are who we are. And the Angles? Yep, the word English is Germanic. Meanwhile, Brexit.....
During visits to secondhand bookstores I have been collecting the various volumes in the Oxford History of England series.
Although some are rather historical themselves (this volume is the third edition of 1971, but it was first published in 1943) one does get the sense that one is reading proper, you know, actual history, like, done by real historians, titans from a bygone age.If I had to describe this book in a single word, it would be 'magisterial'.
You can tell this because Stenton includes long quotes in Latin, which, although presented without translation, are analyzed for their literary quality nonetheless.
Clearly, Stenton's readers were expected to be fairly fluent in Latin.

Probably still the most thurough study on Anglo-Saxon England.
Belatedly I realise I don't really enjoy this type of history. It's too early in history to be able to create a sense of narrative, to help you absorb yourself in the time. It's fragmentary, hedging itself multiple times per sentence, and obsessed with assessing the validity of Bede and Gildas. Not fun.
yeah that's a lot of Anglo Saxon. Right down to ploughlands and gelds and hides.
A bit of a tome this one and probably only for the devoted Anglo Saxonite scholar.
Don't be put off by the design of the blog, he is very funny and cuts to the chase (normally in an episode of less than 10 minutes), so I would recommend him as a starting place if you want(or need)to know more.
Demanding but rewardingEighteen chapters and an epilogue that run through almost 700 dense pages and covers all aspects and vicissitudes relating to Anglo-Saxon England.
Demanding, of course, but rewarding in proportion to the care and interest deposited in its reading.
The index of contents plays in this book a life saving role, due to the density of each chapter, which flows uninterrupted throughout.The effort that such an enterprise entails, the mastery in the telling and the knowledge of the subject matter demonstrated, must ensure that this book continues to be a classic for generations.
Although covering a significant time period, Stenton does not meander and succeeds in making each century feel interesting, even those that have a lot of obscurities in nature.
When I got to the end of this book, I realized that we knew more about the so-called 'Dark Ages' than is made out and feel that some of this content should inspire English storyteller a lot more.The importance of the kingdom of Mercia in forming the English nation is one of the more enlightening aspects of this work.
Not for the faint of heart, this is a well-written and researched book on Anglo-Saxon England from approximately 450 C.E.
(the consolidation of the Norman Conquest with the publication of the Domesday Book).
It's all here: geography, migrations of Angles, Saxons and Jutes; The Mercian kingdom; the English church; Viking raids and the Danelaw; Alfred the Great and the decline of the English monarchy; rise of the Normans; and the conquest of 1066 with its aftermath.
The author was considered by many to be one the premier authorities on the subject when this was first published in 1943, and the book was a volume of the "Oxford History of England".
Too many Aethelberhts and indeed too many small kings and tribal leaders in never ending warfare - not unlike a contemporary failed state.
Because the sources are so thin we never know much about individuals and so few are memorable.
Only once you get something approaching a unified English state does the narrative pick up as you start to identify with individuals.
Solid and reliable (it’s still on undergraduate reading lists), but I think I’d like something that was a little more informed by contemporary archaeology and what that says about ordinary (and not so ordinary) life in the period.

This was 6 weeks of hard work, with infinite detail, not for rthe faint of heart, butn I thought it was worth the effort to find out much more than I knew about England before the Norman conquest. My folks were there.
Very comprehensive account - thorough and well written. I've learnt a lot from this, even though it is now a considerably old book on the subject (first edition written in the 40s), it appears to be a well regarded tome on all aspects of Anglo-Saxon life.
Why I abandoned it - in one sentence: part of a general book abandonment and reset...there was just too much life going on and too many books dragging it down.I probably would have given it: 5 stars
Thorough expose and best book I've found that touches on all thing dark in the ages, which is more than I thought: coins, churches, papers, laws, religion, relationships and the people of the times.
(reco from Neil, 7-24-2012)
This is the definitive text - everything you want to know about Anglo-Saxon England from the leading scholar.
Classic tome - worth reading
