https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39072210-a-spark-of-light
We are all drowning slowly in the tide of our opinions, oblivious that we are taking on water every time we open our mouths. Isn’t that the truth? Regardless of topic, circumstance or person—and whether you have the guts or gumption to share it—deep down, we all have an opinion about everything. Each of us find ourselves walking through life, in our own versions of reality, shaped by past experiences, mistakes, upbringing, religion and oftentimes age. There are those who hold steadfast in their
It’s a conversation starter, in the least.Will Jodi Picoult make you examine your own stance on abortion and why you hold those beliefs so tight?—you bet.
It’s a different experience starting with the end—well most of it—and working your way back to the beginning to uncover how each character came to be at the The Center the very morning a crazed gunman opens fire.
I can’t say much, for fear of giving anything away, but her naivety in thinking things could never work out with her fiancé because they came from different backgrounds was gut-wrenching.
She wondered if the only way any of us can find what we stand for is by first locating what we stand against. I got a really pleasant surprise a couple of years ago when I picked up Small Great Things on a whim and discovered that Picoult is actually much more vicious and hard-hitting than I'd expected. Her covers look like chick-lit, but it seems she takes very current, often controversial, topics and examines them through the eyes of complex and relatable characters.However, I think this book
Her covers look like chick-lit, but it seems she takes very current, often controversial, topics and examines them through the eyes of complex and relatable characters.However, I think this book doesn't quite hit the emotions it's aiming for.
I still want to give it three stars for what I'm tempted to call an important or even necessary read, but I don't think it dives much deeper than the surface.Picoult tells the story of a gunman barging into Missisippi's only abortion clinic and taking the doctors and patients hostage.
The characters are diverse in race, wealth, and sexuality.Lots of viewpoints are covered, as are the laws that make Mississippi the most restrictive state on abortion.
For me this took away any mystery or intensity that I would have felt had the book been written from beginning to end.
I have read other books written in this fashion but this one just didn’t flow right for me.
It felt choppy and actually I got bored with it, that’s my honest opinion.The book then continues introducing characters and why they are at the clinic that day.
I felt there were too many loose threads.I kept waiting for the twist at the end that other reviewers had written about.
"Today, Wren McElroy thought, was not a good day to die."This book begins with a hostage situation at the local Center.
There are others and through the story we get to learn about each character, his/her past and why they are in the clinic that day.
It starts with the hostage situation and goes back in time to the beginning of the day.
No matter where readers stand on abortion, I believe both sides will appreciate this book.
I also enjoyed how she gave back story on the characters and his/her reason's for being at the clinic that day.
Audiobook...Narrated by Bahni Turpin, and Jodi Picoult Favorite line: from Jodi Picoult...( reading this part herself), in the author’s notes:“Laws are black and white;lives of women are shades of gray”.
I especially didn’t feel this book worked as an audiobook.I’m not a fan of books - or a fan of myself, when I ‘press on’....while my inner voice isn’t peaceful - in partnership with the author’s purpose.
I wasn’t feeling aligned with the storyline.I’m not blaming Jodi, I’ve enjoyed at least 3 or 4 of her other books...but I didn’t enjoy this novel enough to recommend it.
Set in a women's reproductive health services clinic, now becoming a rare commodity, the story kick starts with a bang with a desperate gunman shooting at those within the clinic and holding them hostage.
This includes clinic staff, pro life people, the desperate gunman's tale, and clinic clients.
She captures the intensity of the feelings people have on the topic, both pro life and those who uphold a woman's right to choose, exposing the misinformation peddled in the arguments.

This time however, the path she takes to get to the finish line is a little different.As we all know, Jodi Picoult is no stranger to controversy.
Beth had a choice to make and now she is paying the ultimate price.“A Spark of Light” is one of Jodi Picoult's most challenging and controversial books to date.
That said, in this book, Jodi Picoult does a brilliant job of keeping her thoughts neutral, making it such that you feel for each person and each party (whether it’s Pro-Life or Pro-Choice) and have more compassion for everyone involved and that is one heck of a feat.
3.5 rounded up.Jodie Picoult is a prolific writer, and if you’ve read any of her books, you know she confronts head on some tough, controversial and always relevant issues.
Most people who read this book will probably have their own opinion on the issue, and what happens here most likely isn’t going to change that.
I liked how the hostages, some of whom didn’t know each other connected.
I liked how Picoult moves rapidly from character to character and gives us each of their stories.
What didn’t quite work for me was the structure of the book which reads backwards in time and I’m not really sure why.
4 fiery stars to A Spark of Light! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ As a fan of her writing, I have noticed Jodi Picoult’s topics have gotten more fiery as the years have passed, and they continue to be thought-provoking. The Center is a women’s clinic serving all their health needs. Everything changes when a man with a gun enters the building, begins shooting, and takes everyone hostage. My first questions are who is this man and why is he so distraught? I knew there would be more to his story. Hugh McElroy is a hostag
Everything changes when a man with a gun enters the building, begins shooting, and takes everyone hostage.
Wren shares her story inside the building, while also shedding light on the other hostages, including clinic workers among others.
I enjoyed it because it was different, but I had to remind myself a few times the story moves backward retracing how everyone arrives at the clinic that day.
As with all her books, it seems as if Spark of Light is meant to ignite a dialogue about an important topic to many.
I am so happy I can't even speak. I received this ARC in the mail!
She examines abortion from the top of the iceberg and slowly works down to the broader scope of the issue, both from the perspective of pro-choice and pro-life characters.It was a risky move to write this in reverse chronological order, where every chapter goes back an hour.
I didn’t count, but there must’ve been 20 major characters, few with any kind of spotlight role.
It’s one of the few novels to really discuss abortion in a meaningful way.
I wish there had been fewer characters, but I also can’t see any other way to examine an issue this far-reaching.
It’s been years since I’ve read Picoult.
It’s been so long that I can’t recall which of her books I did read.
This one begins at an abortion/women’s health clinic during a hostage crisis.
Told in reverse chronological order, the story examines the abortion issue from both sides by presenting characters who wind up in a hostage situation for a multitude of reasons.
This hot button issue is handled fairly and the research seems to be solid but I didn’t care for the reverse order of the story which minimizes rather than enhances this novel and you see the big reveal coming from a mile away.
It stood to reason that both life and death began with a spark of light 5 Powerful & Thought Provoking StarsIt's a fall day and women are driving from all over the state to The Center for Women in Jackson Mississippi because it is one of the few places that women in the state can go to receive care. This includes birth control, cancer checks, ultrasounds and yes, abortions. Mississippi has the strictest law (15 weeks) that you can have one. Outside the doors, there are protesters everyday t
Justine, a pro-life advocate shares her stories and secrets and Izzy, a nurse who ends up taking care of some of the shot patients also shares stories while trying to save lives.
There are two main Father/Daughter relationships throughout the book and they were similar in many ways but at the end they became complete opposites.
Regardless of what each Dad chose, I felt they were acting on their own instincts to do what they thought was "right" for their daughters.The book is written from almost finish to start.
Some people have criticized this writing and said it "gave away" the story but I understand why Picoult wrote it that way.
If you read one book I recommended this year I urge you to make it this one, I feel like we can all learn something profound from this book.The structure of this was amazing, it’s told in reverse order which always sounds super confusing but if it’s done well then it’s a little bit of magic and if anyone has the magic touch it’s Picoult.
This book was total perfection in my eyes and I cannot wait to see where she takes me next.Spark of Light in three words: Profound, Emotional and Incredible.
The format is also a bit different and unusual in the fact that the author chose to start at the end and go backward from there counting back the hours and one horrific day in the small community clinic.Now, for me I very much appreciate what the author tried to do with bringing this subject matter to light in a truly thought provoking read.
At this point i shows why I like to give each book a chance and not give up early because at that point my rating obviously went up.When all was said and done with the book however I began to question again how I felt about where the story had gone, the format, the subject overall etc.
I don’t think it is a matter of enjoying it or not but rather than it changed something in me as a future doctor.🌟 The book started out really good and chapter 1 was amazing and I knew I would like the book, this chapter ended with a cliffhanger and it was actually the second to last chapter in the book, so the story starts from the ending to the beginning.
I heard that this is not Picoult at her best which means that she is even more awesome than she was in this book!🌟 And I need to point out that this was one of the most medically accurate books that I have ever read, I think she did a great job in the research.
There were a couple of pages I had to skim read because I was too uncomfortable, but I think most readers will find themselves an emotional wreck at one point or another while reading, maybe not at the same point as me, but at some stage.I was torn over the reverse narrative that saw the novel opening at the close of the hostage situation, including the aftermath, and then working it’s way backwards in one hour increments.
The downside was that at the start of the book you had these characters who had survived this horrific experience, but you hadn’t yet experienced it with them, nor had time to form an emotional attachment.
Jodi Picoult is one of those reliable authors that manage to keep you turning the pages with every one of their books that you read.
This time it is about abortion.Hugh is a police negotiator called in to talk to a gunman after he opens fire at an abortion clinic.
The women in the clinic, the police negotiator and the gunman himself all have a story to delve into and she does it so well!
However, hopefully that's just me, and others reading will not have that problem.The subject matter is controversial of course, and like the majority of her books - she makes you think.
Once again, Jodi Picoult has given us a novel that is thought-provoking and poignant and powerful -- with a litany of compelling, deeply affecting characters. What makes this novel especially interesting is the narrative structure: Think "Time's Arrow" by Martin Amis. The story moves backwards, and then flashes forward to a stunning epilogue. And what a story it is: a hostage situation at the last clinic in Mississippi that performs abortions. So timely -- and so moving.
I should have paid attention more fully, I didn’t realise on Net Galley the publishers were only offering an exclusive first chapter, all this has done is frustrate me until I can get my hands on the entire book.This starts with a hostage situation.It’s told in only the professional way a talented author can tell for her readers to actually feel scared in amongst all the mayhem.I can’t wait to read more. Thank you Hodder & Stoughton but I need more!
I've read several other books by Jodi Picoult and they've all been full of tension and suspence that kept me glued to the pages.
I also enjoyed reading the individual stories about the circumstances that brought each person to the clinic that fateful morning.
This is definitely not the caliber I expect from Jodi Picoult but I'm I have on a number of her novels on my shelves that I'm excited to read.
With thanks to NetGalley, Ballantine Books, and Jodi Picoult for this digital ARC for me to read in exchange for my honest review.
Ahhh can't wait for this!! THE cover is to DIE for!! <3.
“Joy wondered how you get someone you think is blind to see what you see. It certainly can't happen when you're standing on opposite sides of a wall.”   A very true statement. As such, Jodi Picoult brings opposing perspectives on abortion inside the very walls they fight, all inside one abortion clinic where they not only share differing opinions but now share the experience of being victims in a violent hostage situation. They are able to put their differences aside and work together towards
As such, Jodi Picoult brings opposing perspectives on abortion inside the very walls they fight, all inside one abortion clinic where they not only share differing opinions but now share the experience of being victims in a violent hostage situation.
This is Jodi Picoult after all.
However, the controversial theme of abortion does run strong, showing how each of the very many characters came to their personal opinion/belief on the subject while shining light on laws, religion, health, race, women's rights, family culture, etc.
Although A Spark of Light offers an admirable message, I did not find it enjoyable to read.
Jodi Picoult shines a light on a controversial issue hoping to spark conversation and understanding.SUMMARYThe day starts like any other at the Center in Jackson, Mississippi.
Later in the morning, a desperate and distraught gunman, George Goddard bursts in, opens fire, and takes everyone inside hostage.
That what looks like carnage, from a different angle, might be a crusade.REVIEWA SPARK OF LIGHT is a compelling story that starts at its end.
While the backward time structure is creative and unique, it makes for a very difficult read, feeling choppy and disjointed.
A Spark of Light by Jodi Picolt is a story of people caught up in a hostage situation in a medical centre. I did not realise that I had only been given an ARC of the first chapter of this book.and I would really like to read more to see how the story progresses.
I think the subject matter here was going to be hard to read no matter what because abortion is such a hot-button topic with little to no gray area in the middle, and like so much in the current political climate, is very divisive.
I found myself very drawn into the story, which centers on a group of people trapped in a clinic during a mass shooting.
Trigger Warnings: (view spoiler)[ murder, violence, mass shooting, rape, graphic description of medical procedure, abortion, abuse  (hide spoiler)]Please excuse typos/name misspellings.
Never one to shy away from a contentious subject, Jodi Picoult tackles the question of abortion on in her new book, A Spark of Light.It is hard to keep your head clear and read a book such as this, and try not to judge what the author says and feels.
I just believe that this subject was a bit marred by the unevenness of the telling, the format not being conducive to this hot button topic, and for those reasons, I am somewhat disappointed.Thank you to Jodi Picoult, Ballantine Books and NetGalley for a copy of this novel.
It’s really hard to write a review with so many different POVs. Especially when the subject matter is a tough topic such as abortion.In A Spark of Light, you hear every side.
The story is told in reverse which I loved.
Anytime a story is told differently like that is a win for me.
There are a ton of characters in this story, each come with different beliefs and upbringings.
Throughout the story we learn how all these characters got to this moment.
I won’t say much else besides I loved it!
The novel is told backward: starting with a shooter entering the clinic and working back from that moment.
I've read some reviews where they thought the backward style left nothing unexplained/nothing left to know, but I found it to be the opposite.
Picoult captures moments in time, as our characters remember back on things.
It's a lovely look at fatherhood for two sets of families, and Hugh and his daughter, Wren, are a wonderful pair.
Picoult does an excellent job paralleling them with another set of characters, too.
It was easy to picture these characters and even easier to fall for them--all signs of a well-written novel.
