https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91475.White_Night
Hands down the most fun book I've read these past two years.
White Night is also the best Dresden Files book so far.
It restored my wobbling faith in the series.
Jim Butcher has my respect.
He can retain control over what makes Dresden special, yet dish out an entertaining, fast paced book that's unique in the series.
Everything here was fun to read.
Even the times where vampires' unearthly beauty was being described made me happy.
But here it seemed so exaggerated and silly that it was...not funny, but pleasant.
Oh wait, it WAS funny as hell!
Can't wait to read the next Dresden book!
If it's a woman, Harry will tell us, multiple times in the same book, how he can't bring himself to be less than courteous.I think the reason this book bothered me so much was that the last book in the series had a different vibe to it, and I was so very interested the entire time I read it.
That book took us to the land of fairy, gave Harry an apprentice, and I felt like it moved the series forward a few steps.
I think I could have skipped the entire book and been just fine moving on to the next one.
I like how Jim Butcher starts to layer the books on top of each other, each plot line leading to more complications and depth.Normally, Wardens existed to police wizards, to make sure that they didn't use their power against the rest of humanity in violation of the Laws of Magic.
Otherwise it'd be up to a meter by now." pg 154, ebook.Though I had some difficulties with the way Harry behaved in the latter part of the last book, I feel like he's more of the flawed character I've come to know in this entry.
But I don't have time to MAKE it perfect, because did I mention THIS BOOK IS DUE AT THE LIBRARY AND THE LIBRARY OPENS IN (checks watch) LESS THAN TWO HOURS AND I NEED TO GET OUT OF HERE?So read this book but first read the previous books in this series and be happy that Harry Dresden has finally stopped giving that pages-long speech he used to give once per volume like clockwork about how people don't believe in the supernatural anymore, which is TOTALLY BOGUS because have you looked around lately?
While Jim Butcher does deliver payoffs and resolutions in his previous eight books, here in "White Night" he steps that up a notch, bringing back old friends and enemies to Harry Dresden's world all while building on several key plotlines from the last several novels as the war between the various supernatural factions begins to reach a boiling point and Harry Dresden is, once again, at the center of it all.If you're coming into this cold, you'll be thorougly confused.
About the only thing I found frustrating about this novel is that in the last book, Harry determined a secret group was plotting within the power ranks of the White Council.
*3.5 stars*LOVE this series and the narrator, James Marsters, can do no wrong, but this book was freakin' confusing as hell! Time jumps, lots of random things happening... it was just more chaotic than I would have liked. Still one of my favorite series of all time and I'm still jumping right into the next book!
He is pretty good in making you feel that way, and I love that when I read his books.I will try not to get overenthusiastic in this review, I promise;) Of course, there are some things that I don't like about the series.
And the other annoying thing is the fact that almost every female monster has to be pretty, sexy woman and of curse Harry can't help but notice it ever time.
It's usually quite different than the way Harry uses it, and that's always pretty interesting and cool to read.
Executive Summary: This is one of three books from the Dresden Files series I've given 5 stars to, and if you follow my reviews, you know that's something I try not to do lightly.
If you've been reading my previous reviews or listening to this series yourself you know that.
I'm still not quite sure, but I think Changes edges this out for best in the series.This is the book that turned me into a herald for Jim Butcher.
With my vague memory of the next few books, it's something we won't quite see again until Changes either.This book shows that both Harry Dresden and Jim Butcher have both matured into something more then when they started.
Little hints at Harry's background are also building up slowly, working towards a big reveal.
In this episode, Sgt Murphy calls Harry in for his unofficial opinion on a series of deaths made to look like suicides.
Harry pretty soon works out that some minor magical folk are being targeted in Chicago and other cities even though the Peace Accord between the White Council of Wizards and the Vampires is still active.
Harry soon finds himself back in the White Court of vampires, having to overthrow a deadly plot.
3.5/5 stars How much of a good thing is too much? Five books? Nine books? How about sixteen books? White Night was a book nine and unless something ground breaking happens I don't think I will make it to book 16 (there's more coming after that too I'm sure). This was everything that a good Dresden Files novel should be: witty, non-stop action with some sexual tension and hilarious remarks. But I still felt a little bit bored. Maybe because we already met the villain in the previous book. Maybe b
​This was everything that a good Dresden Files novel should be: witty, non-stop action with some sexual tension and hilarious remarks.
Especially in the middle - things dragged quite a bit, despite the never ending action (I don't even know how's that possible).
​What I love most about Dresden Files, besides the hilariousness that is Harry, is how relatable and real the books are.
I love that Harry gets cranky and tired, and he sleeps and eats like a normal functioning human.
​Despite being a tad bored with this one I still think that these series is a great fun and I love most of these characters dearly.
Before starting the review of White Night, I would like to tell you how I met Harry.
And first time I met Harry there when I was recommended Dresden Files in response to my request.
They are written in the sarcastic first person voice of Harry who tends to get hired in order to uncover the facts behind some kind of supernatural murder or crime.The first couple of books were okay, nothing really breathtakingly brilliant about them, but from there they picked up and have quickly become fan favorites.
So now back to White Night, this book starts with Harry being called by Murphy to a murder scene.
Murphy told Harry that there were more murders like this.
Evil’s afoot.Well, sure...because it refuses to learn the metric system. Otherwise it’d be up to a meter by now.  I’m not usually one to push so quickly through a series, but I’m thoroughly enjoying myself and can’t seem to pull myself away. With every installment Harry is becoming stronger and more experienced, while implementing interesting tools and forming unlikely alliances to aid him. Meaning, the action only gets better. Next to Sue the magical mayhem and fight sequences in this book we
I’m not usually one to push so quickly through a series, but I’m thoroughly enjoying myself and can’t seem to pull myself away.
Meaning, the action only gets better.
And no doubt this far into the series someone’s luck is bound run out.
It’s hard not to get caught up in the details, or the directness with which Harry handles his relationships, everyday issues, and his ongoing internal ones.
I love a smartass :)So yes, another great installment in the series and I can’t wait to continue.
No one likes a wiseass, Harry.Are you kidding?
9 books in now and I feel confident that the reviews I write will be pretty standard throughout the series.
The majority will be 4 stars as the quality of writing is good, the characters well rounded with enough development throughout the series to keep it from being stale, the plot getting more complicated with each passing novel but still easily digestible.
For some reason the climatic ending reminded me of playing Gears of War. No idea why, but I’m going to pick that game up again now!All in all, if you’ve read this far in the series then you’re likely to continue and you won’t be disappointed.
There’s plenty of action though and Harry has beefed up a lot of his magical accessories for that bit of extra punch – a regional commander of the Wardens of the White Council needs a bit of extra juice after all – especially in the middle of a war with the Red Court Vampires.The action at the end of the book was pretty intense.
Oops.I don’t know about the other Wardens, but Harry wears the “grey” cloak well – ‘cause a lot of his actions, and some of the alliances he makes involve cosying up to some pretty nasty characters – not everything is black and white – sometimes it’s a case of living with the “devil you know” – particularly the ones on the inside.3.5 stars.
3.5 starsThis story is well structured.
There’s a crime mystery with personal stakes involved: women are being murdered, and Thomas becomes a suspect.
He’s actively avoiding Harry, so the case is personal.
Then there’s the road discovery filled with clues and setbacks and then a final big, huge climax.
The creatures de jour are mostly White Court vampires and ghouls.
I’m not sure what ghouls look like.
Something like this:They’re definitely unpleasant.It’s not until the end we find out exactly what Thomas has been up to:(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]This is a fine addition to the Dresden Files collection.
Harry Dresden is back and just like every previous book in this series, its better than it's predecessors.
It feels like we as readers have taken this journey with you as you started out in this career and you really have gone from strength to strength.
They have become such complex and well liked beings that I doubt the author could off any one of them without a huge backlash from his fans.
I do admit that while I thought this book was pretty amazing, I never fell into that cannot-put-it-down mode that you get from your most favourite reads.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Another great book in a great series! I don’t have much to add here or to my other reviews on this series but if you haven’t read these yet, you really, really should. And stick with it because the first few are mediocre but they get SO much better.
"What's up, boss?""Evil's afoot.""Well, sure," Bob said, "because it refuses to learn the metric system. Otherwise it'd be up to a meter by now."  Things having been building up for a long time with Harry. He is still fighting the demon-in-a-coin influence, which seems to have changed his personality a bit, along with the pressures he is under from being a warden, apprenticing Molly (which means his death if she screws up), and worrying about Thomas who is definitely hiding something from him.
He is still fighting the demon-in-a-coin influence, which seems to have changed his personality a bit, along with the pressures he is under from being a warden, apprenticing Molly (which means his death if she screws up), and worrying about Thomas who is definitely hiding something from him.
At the start of this book, we also find out that Harry has had a traumatic experience in between this book and the last at a training camp for young wizards in New Mexico that involved an attack in which a couple of the kids were killed.
Too much pressure can't hurt, can it?Harry is trying to figure out who is killing off witches all over the country.
Butcher has spent 8 books weaving small details of a larger plot together.
That's not to say there isn't a Big Secret still to be seen, but Butcher is more than happy to show that we are moving towards it apace.I'd say a hearty thumbs up to this book, well worth the slow beginning I had with this series.
It's refreshing in some ways that I haven't seen before.The plot, without spoiling, isn't predictable, even when it is, and solves dangling threads I didn't expect.
Dresden is reaching full circle in some ways here and I can't wait to see what's next.
Just doing a short review this time.Basically a fun read, but not the best in the series. I did like having Molly around - the master/apprentice aspect didn't go overboard in this one, and was really fun. I thought Thomas was great in the one and I always love Murphy. I really hope that the (view spoiler)[ Lasciel storyline is done (hide spoiler)]
4.5 maybe. Just another great addition to the series. Loved the intricacies woven in from previous books - feels like they've all been leading up to this moment, and now we're really seeing where this story will be going from now on. I'm excited to see what else Jim Butcher throws at Harry Dresden.
It's definitely getting harder to review these at book 9.
This is the last book that came out before I started to become aware of the series.
Not only did I start out behind, but the freaking guy can't stop putting out a million books a year so I fear I'll still never catch up.
I'm still enjoying these, though I think I might have overdone it reading 3 in very close succession.
This was tightly plotted and highly enjoyable as usual.
If you've read this far, it's more of the same except slightly better than the first that were the same.
4 out of 5 Stars (highly recommended)
They're all pretty small things, stuff like Harry feeling the need to bring up how long it has been since he's had sex.
Which thinking about it is maybe why it comes up so often...but there have to be better ways.There's also things like the way that every time Harry goes to McNally's pub we are treated to a long discussion of why it is significant which we have been reminded of in every single book (I don't know of anyone that is jumping into a series at book 9 so it is really unnecessary and gets in the way at this point).
They battle the forces of darkness and learn more about each other's pasts.
The progression makes sense, but is not predictable or cliche.
At the heart of each book is a mystery to be solved.
The clues lead Dresden to secret circles and a Mob boss.
You want to be fooled." When I read mysteries, I spend the whole time trying to figure it out.
I get wrapped up in the characters, or the words, or the stories.
Its exciting and it makes sense.
I suggest starting at the beginning [Storm Front, Dresden Files Book 1].
Basically, a bunch of women practitioners are being hunted down and killed and Harry must figure out what is really going on.
Everything comes to a head with the White Court, Cowl, Madrigal Raith, and something called a Skavis.
The thing that stood out the most in this book was the highly theatrical fight of Harry + Rameriz against Vittorio and Madrigal.
That fight between the four of them really shows off what can be done with magic in this world and opens up the series quite a bit to how powerful the mages can be.
The ongoing story of Harry Dresden does not get better in the ninth book.
The consistencies in the mechanics and the competence of characters get very iffy here.
(Is it a trend, like in that Rowling series, to have prima donna protagonists, around which all things move, be named "Harry"?)Harry will explain how magic makes sense in the Law Of Conservation Of Energy even it violates the Second Law of Thermodynamics.Harry will touch the good side of a fragment of a Fallen Angel who has been Pure Evil for countless millennia.Harry will defeat opponents who've had decades, maybe centuries, of practice in combat.Harry will cut deals with powerful factions of 'lesser evil' and have them around his finger even when it would benefit them more to betray him at the last minute.Harry will have you remember that this IS trashy pulp, and is meant to be enjoyed that way, if you are to enjoy it at all...
This volume was high on magic, but low on detective work which wasn't the best trade-off; however the action and characters helped to re-balance the scales.
Murphy was particularly awesome in this installment as was Harry's brother, Thomas.
Molly got on my nerves a bit with her complete disregard for how her actions impacted others.
She's learning though, as was evidenced by her growth towards the end.
And, here I was thinking that *I* had the best dog in the world.
WHITE NIGHT definitely had a lot to offer, and I can't wait to discover what mischief Harry & co get into next.
First read 9-16 May, 2010.Re-read 12-23 October, 2013. More shadowy conspiracy! More kick-butt violence! Harry is as funny, crafty, brave, stubborn, chivalrous, and vulnerable as ever, and now he's even more powerful! Great use of recurring characters, especially Thomas, Ramirez, Murphy, Marcone, and Elaine. Elaine is awesome, and Ramirez is adorable; I want to see both of them in featured roles in upcoming books. Thomas' secret was quite the fun surprise. Interesting revelation on the Lasciel matter. Another good page-turner!
One of my friends convinced me to try out the audio versions of this series, and I really enjoyed, especially the humour, which had me laughing out loud 5h00 in the mornings on my way to work - not an easy feat.
The only problem with this title, was that I was a bit lost with some of the characters or events referred to, as I read the previous titles in the books quite a while ago.
The other one was the amount and lenght of the fight scenes - too much, but much easier to deal with on audio.
Will definitely get the next in the series.
