https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/418135.The_Cardboard_House
The presence of paragraphs, that tell me, just maybe, I’ll be able to understand what I’m preparing to read.
Wonderful, wonderful paragraphs.But, there are those damned prose poems.
Those deceptive paragraphs which, may or may not, yield up meaning, or understanding, or anything that a reader who’s almost exclusively drawn to prose might expect (hope for?).
The familiar made alien by inclusion in the prose poem.
A story the way a poet might tell it.This afternoon, the world is a potato in a sack.
The sack is a small, white, dusty sky, like the small sacks used for carrying flour.
Adán's words work like memory: not a long and spooling high-def replaying of people and events, but razor sharp fragments that can injure if mishandled.The sea is a soul we once had, that we cannot find, that we barely remembered as our own, a soul that is always different along every esplanade.This book is a proem, a masterful use of language that tells a story that isn't a story.
The sun — a rare, hard, golden, lanky coleopteran.Every vignette is a flowery, often extravagant embroidery created out of the vivid poetic images.In the bewitched mirror of the rainy street — a drop of milk, the streetlamp’s iridescent globe; a drop of water, the sky above; a drop of blood, one’s self with this foolish joy at winter’s unannounced arrival… I am now that man with no age or race who appears in geography monographs, with ridiculous clothes, a somber face, his arms spread wide as he arranges India ink pastures and charcoal clouds — the engraving’s sparse, ragged landscape.Every vignette is an iridescent tessera and all those brilliant pieces add up to a fantastically beautiful mosaic.A nighttime stroll.
At times it’s like the physical descriptions from The Book of Disquiet without the Soaresian philosophy.
At times it’s near indecipherable, like Agua Viva but less grandiose.
At times, like On Elegance While Sleeping, it’s the everyday outpourings of a perceptive youth, funny, random-seeming, but unlike Tegui never flippant or glib.
Not – like the Viscount Tegui (whose book, in its repulsive Dalkey edition, irritates me just to look at it), or the earnest Lispector – a piece of theatre.
the only prose work from martín adán, the cardboard house (la casa de cartón) was originally published in 1928 when the peruvian poet was twenty years young.
set in the barranco district of lima, the cardboard house came to be an influential work preceding the latin american boom.
with rich, descriptive, and melodious prose, the cardboard house is a thoughtful and beautifully-written work.
sadly, it appears that none of adán's collections of poetry have ever been translated into english.graywolf press first published the cardboard house in a slightly different translation in 1990, but it quickly went out of print.
A remarkable "first book" written by an eighteen year-old kid.
The distinguished and mature sophistication exhibited was unbelievable for a kid that age and my bull-shit radar was smoking from being over-worked.
Nonetheless, credit is due this beautiful work.
There was plenty of place (setting) in the poem and its raw beauty was stupendous.Hannah Alpert-Abrams has written a review of the novel which can be found here: http://www.full-stop.net/2012/11/21/r...It is possible I shan't have much more to say on the matter other than this rating above and my previous reading progress reports.
If their singing could be musically annotated, it would have to be done on a temperature scale, on graph paper, with a dotted line, with odd numbers.
Musical skeleton.
A whirlwind of light and dust rises to the sun from a nearby field surrounded by thick adobe walls.Martín Adán (1908 – 1985) was a Peruvian poet who published his only novel, The Cardboard House, when he was twenty years old.
The book meanders through page-long vignettes of life in Lima surrounded by sky, sea, and city.
That may be so, but from a superficial literary standpoint—were there such a thing—in Cardboard House, he excels at lyrical descriptions of the commonplace seaside scenes.
This is outstanding. Every sentence combines words in ways we never employ in daily life, but make imaginative sense here. Adan describes his world, in the Barranco suburb of Lima in the 1920s. Surreal, essential, wild, bitter, erotic, youthful--a wonderful book.
No es prosa. No es poesía. Es un manual de cómo hacer origami con el Castellano. Bellísimo.
Esta obra aborda muchas cosas, y las que no, no es que no se aborden sino que el lector no las intuye.
Suerte de poemario en prosa, narra la historia del final de la adolescencia - final de la época escolar - final del verano - transcurso del día a la noche - metáfora de una vida entera, en la cual cada elemento es un personaje con su propia historia, paralela a la principal, y cada personaje es un elemento —como los jacarandas que son personas y las personas que son jacarandas, entre otras muchísimas transmutaciones—.
Posee gran belleza y nunca se excede, a pesar de haber sido concebido en el límite entre lo artístico y lo huachafo; aparentemente, ese riesgo es lo que lo hace aún más interesante.
#readaroundtheworld PeruThis kaleidoscope of staccato writing was surprisingly appealing to me
Just because something reads like poetry doesn't necessarily make it a good ride. This translation felt sterile to me. The language was nice at times but at no time did it rock me or touch my soul like Neruda does at times. So it could of just been lost on me, but it didn't have any soul or grab me.
Un libro que a mi parecer es un largo poema en prosa. Pero que también es más que eso, y acuso humildemente a mi condición de lector aun inexperto el aun no comprenderlo del todo. Pero de lo poco que he podido apreciar de tu lectura destaco sus imagines poderosas, la prosa impecable y la evocación de un mundo intimo como pocas veces he leido en la literatura peruana.
No me ha gustado para nada.
Read on the flight from Bogota to Lima to get ready to walk the streets of Barranco, a cool mishmash of reflections and poetic musings, reminded me a bit of Lispector, totally dug it.
He wrote this book when he was nineteen -- a writing exercise set by a teacher, he claimed -- and he was apparently widely read even outside of the classroom: there are hosts of references to the most current European literature of the day, as well as to the Spanish classics and the previous thirty years of popular philosophy.
Goodreads recommend it after I’ve read the wonderful Clarice Lispector, and since she’s now one of my all-time favorites, I can’t help but compare these two.
So I can’t help to think that perhaps Lispector did actually read it and might have been influenced by it.
Both use repeating the same word/sentence three times as a syntax trick, which is wonderful, and both are stream of conscious writers, so I guess perhaps Lispector was influenced by him.
I’m very disappointed with the fact that this is the one and the only serious book of his, considering his life story, but it’s a great adding to the wonderful league of South American writers, and founding fathers of good Latin literature.
siento mientras leo a Martín que entro un poco en mí, así escribo, así me siento; de pronto siento lo que ha de sentir el resto al leer las líneas que suelo escribir: "un bochorno", "un fastidio encerrado, la sombra interminable de una misa de cuatro horas"; es cuando me dicen "cambia" y después "deja de escribir". Lo siento, no me adhiero, al contrario, me siento y sigo escribiendo..
One of the most gorgeously written novels I've ever experienced, made all the more inspiring by the fact that the author was twenty years old at the novel's publication. Way to make me feel like a failure at six years your senior, Adán, you brilliant bastard.
4.5/5 - stunning.
Get the feeling I'll be rereading this one forty or fifty times.
Lo leería mil veces.
Striking beautiful language, an almost plot-less narrative and very few characters distinguish this groundbreaking novel of Spanish American Literature.
3.5
The only novel by the Peruvian poet Martin Adan. A Hallucinegenic vision of everyday life in Lima - a young man walks the streets where memory and life collide in poetic phrases.
What a marvelous little book. He squeezes more imagery into each paragraph, each sentence even that they could blossom into stories of their own.
This was not a narrative story, it was just a bunch of pretty mental snapshots of moments. =
http://www.full-stop.net/2012/11/21/r...Review by Hannah Alpert-AbramsYou should read The Cardboard House, if you haven’t already, because perhaps you have never read a Peruvian novel before.
You may also want to read something extraordinary.First published in 1928, La casa de cartón was the debut novel of a young man (Rafael de la Fuente Benavides) who wrote under the name Martín Adán.
When The Cardboard House was published, it was expected to herald a new age of uniquely Peruvian art imbued with urbanism and the spirit of the avant-garde.
The grammar books are made of cardboard; so, presumably, are the houses and also, perhaps, the Barranco resort in Lima, where the novel is set.Read more here: http://www.full-stop.net/2012/11/21/r...
Aparecido por primera vez en 1928, "La Casa de Cartón" es considerado una de las primeras obras modernistas de la literatura peruana.
En vez de ser lleno de detalles superfluos que distraen el lector, el lenguaje de Adán, quien escribió esta novela corta a la edad de 18 años, es sorprendentemente original, estimulante y hermoso.
Aunque la densidad del texto y el uso de tantas palabras rebuscadas harán de esta lectura un verdadero desafío (con diccionario a la mano, jaja), vale la pena para entregarse al pequeño mundo contenido en las páginas de "La Casa de Cartón".
