https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71552.The_Real_Life_of_Sebastian_Knight
We begin to wonder if this unnamed narrator-brother is simply a mirror device to reveal ‘the real life of Sebastian Knight?
(view spoiler)[ Nina Toorovetz (I had never seen a skin so evenly pale, the narrator says when he meets her), the woman who destroys Knight (though he dies of a heart condition, we see that it is she who has struck the blow) is almost the mirror image of his mother.
And it's funny how I referred to dinner, as this now makes me want to gobble up as many Nabokov books as possible, maybe even one day with pipe and slippers completing a clean sweep!The format of this novel made it highly addictive to read, but it isn't without the mind-boggling details and layers of narration that do create a challenge.
Nabokov has the narrator doing an awful lot of travelling, from Russia, to Paris (where most of the novel takes place) to Berlin, trying to gather as much information as possible to write his own book on his beloved half-brother.
And love, apparently, is the best exponent of this singularity.” ― Vladimir Nabokov, The Real Life of Sebastian KnightNabokov's tenth novel and first published novel written in English, 'The Real Life of Sebastian Knight' for me seemed like a dry run at big, complex themes he would later use in Ada (funky plot structure) and Pale Fire (meta-fixation on another 'artists' literary work) along with a complex, Möbius-like narrative.
That fake game felt a lot like 'the Real Life of Sebastian Knight', just not nearly as literary and didn't end with both frustrated kings jammed up my nose.
Sebastian Knight is full of pre-echoes of the kind of things that will eventually dominate Nabokov's bigger, more famous books: identity, memory, literary pastiche, linguistic playfulness, formal games, and a direct, witty, elaborate narrative voice.
The end result comes over as something like a cross between Tristram Shandy and Steve Aylett's Lint (though not as funny as either).There are copious quotations from and comments on Knight's oeuvre (he was, we are told, the author of such bestsellers as Lost Property and The Doubtful Asphodel), and these allow Nabokov to outline a theory of literature from, as it were, a safe distance.
Nabokov's cold but never stylistically unsound first novel in English should make most said-language speaking writers go ahead and give up now before they embarrass themselves.
Jealous gripes and grouses aside, The Real Life of Sebastian Knight is a formally inventive metaphysical detective story about a prissy, aristocratic narrator who goes sniffing around his recently deceased brother's past to gather material for a biography on his life.
The two brothers (half-brothers if we are being honest) shared a distant, oddly formal relationship while both were still alive, but this didn't weaken the narrator's sincere admiration for his brother's works.
It’s also a satire that mocks the glorification of writers.The premise of The Real Life of Sebastian Knight is that of a biography (kind of) of an author—Sebastian Knight—being written by his half brother.
We get very little understanding of Sebastian, mostly a view of how cringingly pitiable the narrator is instead.Very close to the beginning of the story, the narrator enraged me by burning Sebastian’s letters.
Despite the obvious surface humor and satire of The Real Life of Sebastian Knight, there are many intriguing layers to it, such as a theme that addresses the impossibility of understand a “real self.” It’s an onion with layers that can't be peeled.
I could perhaps describe the way he walked, or laughed or sneezed, but all this would be no more than sundry bits of cinema-film cut away by scissors and having nothing in common with the essential drama.”The Real Life of Sebastian Knight is an investigation of the writer’s past, an attempt to get nearer to his genuine self… How close may an investigator come to the reality of the other person?“I collected one of the most precious pages of Sebastian's life.
“La nota fondamentale della vita di Sebastian era la solitudine, e quanto più il destino cercava benevolmente di farlo sentire a suo agio contraffacendo in modo ammirevole le cose che egli credeva di desiderare, tanto più avvertiva la propria incapacità di inserirsi nel quadro, - in qualsiasi quadro.
An unreliable narrator, a Russian émigré in Paris, frequent allusions to chess… We are definitely in Nabokov territory.
This appears to be a very personal novel: in the accounts of a Russian author learning to write in English, adapting to a new culture, and in the concern over artistic legacy and interpretation, Nabokov appears at times to be speaking through both subject (S.
Knight) and narrator (unnamed).
Nabokov’s prose is not bad for someone writing his first novel in his third language (kidding, it’s outstanding - there is not even a hint of awkwardness or unfamiliarity).For me, this was something of a slow burn.
A mysterious and at times almost sinister story with a somewhat curious ending (whose real meaning depends entirely on the reader) that leaves you with a lot to think about, written in a brilliant way by an astonishingly brilliant writer who knows that what you don't write is equally important as what you do write, and with that he plays with you in a deceptively simple narrative that is really anything but. If you don't pay attention, you'll gain little from Volodya.
O passo seguinte foi procurar outra obra de Nabokov, dando preferência a uma cuja temática fosse mais leve.A Verdadeira Vida de Sebastian Knight veio confirmar que nem eu, nem a maioria dos outros leitores, estávamos enganados, Nabokov é mesmo um grande escritor e a sua especialidade é deixar os leitores indignados e felizes!
Fiquei com a sensação de que esta obra é quase auto-biográfica e que Nabokov se "desdobra" entre as duas personagens mais relevantes: Sebastian e o seu meio-irmão.
There are a number of ways one can take the novel's closing lines, which I of course won't give away for fear of being beheaded by the "no-spoilers" crowd.
Since Invitation is my least favorite Nabokov novel by a wide margin so far, I therefore would prefer he remain this way.4.
It's questionable how great Sebastian actually is, at least as a writer; the few passages we're offered of his work suggests that he's stilted and a little too clever for his own good.
I think I like this more than Lolita and Pnin, and am now a lot more excited to dive into Nabokov than I had been beforehand.
I was strongly reminded of my Lolita reading experience. Nabokov makes you read every single word of every sentence. It's an intense reading experience and he makes me focus like no other author I've come across. I don't have too many thoughts and feelings towards the story itself. It was a bit exhausting to read and would definitely benefit from a reread or two. Just what I expected from Nabokov.
Sebastian Knight, nasceu na Rússia em 1899 (tal como Nabokov) após o divorcio de seus pais ficara a viver com o pai, este, mais tarde casa com uma senhora Inglesa e de quem tem um filho, meio irmão de Sebastian, que nutre um elevado amor por Sebastian, o irmão mais velho.Após a morte do pai, num duelo, e a derrocada do Czarismo a família emigrou para a Inglaterra.
Muito do que está escrito no livro “A Verdadeira Vida de Sebastian Knight “, é um grito de dor e cansado de Nabokov, é como se pretendesse matar-se a si próprio para depois ressuscitar, tal como Sebastian, porque este efetivamente, não morreu.“É o fim, o fim.
An interesting conundrum that reminds me of a dinner party at Le Grand Rire in midtown NYC, herewith a fable: in a private room hostess Flossie Fidget seated me next to Commodore Sackbut, said the placard, whom I've longed to meet.
At end of this marvelous party, I thanked Flossie Fidget for my placement.
Oh, she said, I'm so sorry the Commodore couldn't come, but I'm glad your attention was engaged by his cousin, though I don't know his name.
As I left Le Grand Rire, (first time there), the maitre'd tapped my shoulder and said knowingly, "Good to see you, Commodore Sackbut, soon again, I trust."
He puns in French, too, while I weep with envy.I personally thought Sebastian Knight was a much better book than Lolita, the Nabokov book that everyone's read.
The nameless narrator, the half-brother of the eponymous character, spends the entirety of the novel attempting to piece together the life of his deceased brother, a famous writer - the two loves of his life, the circumstances surrounding the writing and publication of each of his books, his clueless and shady biographer, and his sad death.
I'm just guna come out and say it.This is better than Lolita.It is fictional biography/mystery.
And Nabokov is definitely having fun with the various conventions and forms that these two genre frequently utilize.As in many of Nabokov’s novels, not much really occurs.
Tea, train-rides, conversations in a garden, and yet so much is happening behind the scenes, in between these small moments.Nabokov frequently laughs at his readers but I’ve never felt that more strongly than here in this novel.
Did you see that?!”The only way to really experience a Vladimir Nabokov novel is to pick one up and dive in.
Maybe it's a momentary response to the ersatz-bluster of Henry Miller; maybe it's because, fresh off Ada, my mind has yet to render an insatiable hunger for more Nabokov; or maybe most people are wrong and severely underrating, but The Real Life of Sebastian Knight, for all the clumsiness and structural slips expected of an author's first foray in a foreign language, is a fucking fantastic read.
Literary thrashings and facades, metafictive wordplay, Space-Time parody, dissolution of identity and Dionysian narration, elements comfortably affixed to Nabokov, are present and compressed in Sebastian Knight, a brisk satire of the detective novel presumably written by a gauche, aristocratic and nameless narrator (offhandedly referred to as "V.") adorned with the honey-tongued Luciferian hubris redolent of other Nabokovian greats.

3,5/5*Εντάξει, πολυεπίπεδο και καλοδουλεμένο μυθιστόρημα, αλλά κάπου το 'χασα με τις υποθέσεις των μυθιστορημάτων του συγγραφέα-αδερφού του αφηγητή. Υπάρχουν αρκετά σημεία σύνδεσης των πλοκών των μυθιστορημάτων αυτών με την αφήγηση που τις περικλείει, ωστόσο δεν κατάφερα να συγκεντρωθώ όσο θα έπρεπε για να τα εντοπίσω όλα.
Nabokov's first foray into English, a story about a novelist, his brother, and the search to discover the 'real life' of the former. Nabokov's prove is not as sparkly as usual, as he is still becoming accustomed to English, but it still shines. Recommended to those who know the struggle of an artist's life, or Nabokov fans.
Αριστούργημα :p https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2017/...
Simply the best book I've ever read.The Real Life of Sebastian Knight is Nabokov's first English novel.
Slowly, the reader feels himself becoming entangled in a web of suspicions and possibilities.The story of the novel is told, in the first person, by a biographer in search of the life of his subject.
The story mainly concerns the troubles that the narrator has obtaining the facts that he's looking for, with the actual life of Sebastian Knight coming only second place.
The Real Life of Sebastian Knight succeeds in making this paradox come to life, rather than formulating it as an academical exercise.
ناباکف نیز با نوشتن سباستین نایت در آستانه ورود به مرحله دیگری از زندگی ادبی اش بود، این رمان حکم همان شوک بنیادینی را داشت که قرار بود شکل تازه یی از تفکر را به زندگی او پیوند زند.
او نیز آغاز شیوه تازه تفکر را در زندگی اش با تامل در نفس گره زد و پیش از هر چیز کوشید تا از طریق نخستین رمانی که به این زبان جدید می نوشت خودش را بشناسد.اما نکته کلیدی در مورد فرآیند خودشناسی در این رمان، آن است که راوی سباستین نایت نیست.
Non male ma, seppur alla prima esperienza col buon Vladimir, sono convinto abbia scritto di meglio. [71/100]
“One thought-image, then another breaks upon the shore of consciousness, and we follow the thing or the being that has been evoked: stray remnants of a wrecked life; sluggish fancies which crawl and then unfurl eyed wings” (173).
He had no use for ready-made phrases because the things he wanted to say were of an exceptional build and he knew moreover that no real idea can be said to exist without the words made to measure.
This was a sad, beautiful novel-- I cried at the end. This is my second and favorite Nabokov, I didn't understand Invitation to a Beheading, but this, this I felt. This was quite a page turner, I read it all in one sitting. I really liked how unique of a narrative this was-- it's one of those novels where the main character pretends the main character is someone else-- think Gatsby or Antonia.
آنچه ما از خود مي پنداريم تصويري است كه ما خواهان نمايش آن هستيم ، خود واقعي ما چيزي گمشده از لحظات زيستن ماست كه بياد نداريم يا شايد خواهان يادآوري آن نيز نيستيم. ما در بين سطرهاي كتاب واقعي زندگي مان پنهانيم ما خوانش آن روايتي هستيم كه دوست مي داريم و اما مرگ هميشه پيروز است ، كافيست جاي دوربين و سه پايه را عِوَض كرد، آنجاست كه طرحي نو در مي آميزد شطرنج هم بازي زيباييست ، شاه در برابر شاه، سفيد در برابر سياه ، ما در مقابل ما
اگر بگويم دو، شروع به شمارش كرده ام و انتهايي بر آن نيست. تنها يك عدد واقعي وجود دارد؛ يك، و در ظاهر، عشق بهترين نماينده ي اين يكتايي است.
Biografia tristă și misterioasă a unui tânăr scriitor ruso-englez, dezvăluită de fratele său vitreg - primul roman în limba engleză scris de Vladimir Nabokov. O lectură placută, ușor de parcurs.
