https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28678119-paper-princess
(Although I'm not 100% sure if it's true or not.)Here is a lovely list of what this book includes:• male dominance and chauvinism and sexism that is NOT rebuffed or called out• sexual harassment and near-rape• romanticising abuse• detailed sex scenes• no plot whatsoever because who needs that• a protagonist who has as much personality as paper (SEE WHAT I DID THERE)• alcohol addiction that is totally shrugged off• DID.
He's calling her a slut, talking with his brothers about how it's not safe to have sex with her because she's diseased, he's making sure all the people at school hate her, he treats ALL WOMEN like they're pieces of furniture to use, he walks into her room without knocking while she's changing, and he commands her to go here, stay there, come, sit.
WELL THAT WAS A JAW DROPPER!!!!! A fucking JAW DROPPER!!! I'm still reeling! Ahhhhh! Okay... I think I've found a NEW addiction and it's  ROYALLY  intoxicating!!!! YOU GUYS! I started Paper Princess around 11pm on a Sunday Night. My plan was to read until 12:30. Yeah, rightttttt!!! BIGGEST MISTAKE EVER. I had to forced myself to set it down. I had read and read and read and before I knew it I had to be up in 2hrs. TWO HOURS. The next morning I couldn't think. Not about ANYTHING but this book. I
When you first meet Callum Royal and his sons, you don't know what to think of them.
His breath hitches, almost imperceptibly, but it’s there.My heart leaps to my throat and blood begins to pound in places that I absolutely do not want to be associated with Reed Royal."You’re playing a dangerous game,” he rasps out.Don’t I know it.
“I don’t know any other way to play it.” ....]All the Royal boys have distinct personalities.
But our hero is Reed Royal.
REED MOTHER FUCKING ROYAL!
And I think things are going to get very juicy, and maybe even a touch scandalous, in book 2.
5 stars  I honestly can’t tell you the last time I’ve read a book that was this addictive.
This book was like crack to me.
I started it on a day when I had things going on and no matter what I had to do, I was itching to read it.
I was sneaking in chapters.
I devoured this book.
It was angsty in the best way possible, had a strong heroine and a family of brothers who ended up being the most lovable jerks- but trust me, you won’t love them all the time!
Ella Harper is tough.
I honestly can’t tell you the last time I’ve read a book that was this addictive.
If you stay, we'll break you so bad that you'll be crawling away.”
Of course, Reed was great (some of the time) but one of my favorite characters in the book was Easton Royal.
After spending more time with these Royal boys, Ella sees who they really are and why they do the things they do.
My jaw is still on the floor and my heart still hurts from reading that last chapter!
I have to admit, I didn't expect to like this book, but it has a Hana Yori Dango (Meteor Garden, Boys Over Flowers, whatever you call it) sort of vibe. "...all it takes is one word from him and you’ll be nothing here. Insignificant. Invisible. Or worse.” This is no brilliant work of literature, believe me, but what it was is utterly entertaining. The reason I compare it to Hana Yori Dango (HYD) is the premise. It's a bit different, but the similarity is still there. Ella Harper is plucked from p
I have to admit, I didn't expect to like this book, but it has a Hana Yori Dango (Meteor Garden, Boys Over Flowers, whatever you call it) sort of vibe.
She is smart, strong, a survivor, and is plopped into a chi-chi world and ultra-rich school where four of the sons attend, all of whom are determined to make her life a living hell.The school she attends is straight out of HYD.
It always takes a lot for me to overcome my prejudice of the genre, and what surprised me about this book was the fact that there are other female characters in the book.The difference between this book and HYD is that all the guys are asshats.
She never had any relationship with the sperm donor that gifted her life and then promptly left her mother in the dust, much less the stranger that claims to have custody of her.Despite her best efforts to evade him, Callum persists until he has Ella on a jet and headed to his home.
In spite of Callum's best efforts to make Ella feel welcomed, his five teenage sons make their distaste for Ella equally clear.Reed, the second oldest son, but the oldest son still living at home, is clearly calling the shots.
That is what we're told anyway- but Ella doesn't seem to suffer any mental challenges despite her past.
Nope, she easily adjusts to life with the "Royals" and constantly talks about how horny she is despite her past, her abuse, and the way they treat her.
(view spoiler)[ Ella comes from a bad past.
Ella all the sudden is rich and has to live with 5 boys who are "hot." The "meanest & most disturbed" one is the one she lusts after.
So we start the story with Ella Harper showing up to school, but gets told to see the headmaster and there she meets Callum Royal.
Ella really doesn't know what the hell to think when Mr Royal announces that he is in fact Ella's guardian being as both of her parents are deceased.
Ella's been told that the royals basically own the school and that if she doesn't abide by the rules, then her four years in school will be absolute hell, but then again Ella Harper doesn't give a shit about anything.
★★★★★! Paper Princess, book 1 of 3. Modern tale rags to riches Cinderella in high school setting with six potential suitors & all the elements of a fairytale!   “You may have lost your family, but you’re not alone anymore, Ella. You’re a Royal now.”   Books in The Royals series should be read in order:Book 1: Paper PrincessBook 2: Broken PrinceBook 3: Twisted PalacePaper Princess (book 1) is the riveting opening to a glued to-your-kindle saga.  One woman, six men, money, greed, excess, sex d
Modern tale rags to riches Cinderella in high school setting with six potential suitors & all the elements of a fairytale!
“You may have lost your family, but you’re not alone anymore, Ella.
Books in The Royals series should be read in order:Book 1: Paper PrincessBook 2: Broken PrinceBook 3: Twisted PalacePaper Princess (book 1) is the riveting opening to a glued to-your-kindle saga.
Seven words to describe Ella Harper: Strong, independent, loyal, private, charismatic, reflective, naïve and unforgettable.Paper Princess, brilliantly told from Ella’s POV, spellbound me all the way to its shocking and oh so perfect ending.
You're kidding me.You're kidding me. You're fucking kidding me!!   “These Royals will ruin you”  I am the one ruined beyond repair. I am livid. You can practically see smoke steaming from my ears and pieces of my heart falling to the floor.I have fallen apart.  “You should know whatever game you're playing, you can't win. Not against all of us. If you leave now, you won't be hurt. If you stay, we'll break you so bad that you'll be crawling away.”  I beg you to forgive me for not writing a proper
I couldn't relate with Ella nor understand her actions, I hated the boys at first and at the end all I could do was yell at a certain someone who did a certain something and damaged my faith in him.But Paper Princess was addictive.It's definitely one of the books I'd call guilty pleasures, there were so many things wrong with the characters and their decisions and their life styles I can't even begin to describe, but they grew on me despite my will.
Like I said before, I hated the Royal boys at first.
It's really not fair how hot this guy is. And he's got this whole bad boy vibe that I'm not usually into, but for some reason, it makes him even hotter. I guess I like bad boys. OH MYYYY GOOOOD! I wish you guys could hear me literally scream at this book.This whole book was a huge WTF moment. Why is this thing even allowed to exist?!!!! I have never been this pissed at a book before. It was wrong on so many levels, I don't even know where to start. Could you just puh-lease stop romanticising bl
Can you imagine all the teenage girls reading this book and thinking that freaking assholes are hot because this idiot character Ella is attracted to jerks?????This book is the most disgusting thing I have read in my life.
All you can find in here is abuse, near-rape and a creepy characters.
If any teenage girl is reading this review, I need you to understand that abusive relationships are not okay.
The fact that they kept referring to Ella as their sister makes it TEN TIMES more disgusting and creepy.
He’s a jerk and he wants to hurt you, I scream at my body.
5 Stars  You should know whatever game you're playing, you can't win. Not against all of us.If you leave now, you won't be hurt. If you stay, we'll break you so bad that you'll be crawling away."  Let's talk about things that trigger my one-clicker for a second here, shall we?Authors: we have a book that's basically an angst filled love child of Cruel Intentions and Gossip Girl. There's YA kind angst but with NA kind scenarios. There's hate lust, an incredible tough as nails heroine, a bunch of
Let's talk about things that trigger my one-clicker for a second here, shall we?Authors: we have a book that's basically an angst filled love child of Cruel Intentions and Gossip Girl.
Now that her mother has passed away, Ella has nothing and no one and struggles to make ends meet just to make it through high school so she can go on to college.
But Callum is determined to help once he sees the way Ella's been living and it's not long before she arrives on the Royal doorstep much to the disgruntlement of Callum's five sons.
Well that was a hoot, wasn't it?I would say more, but this has been reviewed to death and I have absolutely nothing to add. These are quite the "high schoolers," though, no?
This book deserves its own category in my GR bookshelves, really, I was tempted to make a new shelf called: "WTF" just to put this book in (still tempted, so maybe I'll end up doing it).
I was rolling my eyes ALL THE TIME and not only because of the drama, but also because everything that happened was (I repeat) ridiculous!
I think I said "wtf" out loud more than 50 times while reading this.Nevertheless, it was a fast read and an addictive one, so I might give the second book a try.
Because of that and also because this one ended on a massive cliffhanger and I have to admit I'm curious about what will happen.
*****FIVE STARS*****{ARC Generously Provided by Authors}Just FABULOUS!!I've been dying to get to this one and so happy I finally got to read it!This house is an illusion. It's polished and pretty, but the dream Callum is trying to sell is as flimsy as paper. Nothing stays shiny forever in this world. When the buzz first started going around about this book months ago, I was extremely intrigued. I was told this was one hell of a book that was going to knock my socks off. IT DEFINITELY DID!! It wa
Callum Royal tells Ella that her father has recently died and that he was named her guardian in his will.
Having lived in some of the worst environments, Ella isn’t quick to trust Callum and tries to run away.
Now you see why I said this is like a girl’s dream come true????!!To get Ella to agree to come back with him and stay at his place, Callum offers her $10,000 up front and promises an extra $10,000 for every month she stays.
I NEED TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS NEXT!!!What is it with authors deciding to co-write books lately??!!
However if in other occassions I prefer not to post a review or even a rating because a) I don't want to waste more time than the book deservesorb)I can't pinpoint what I didn't like,In this case I think I have to warn other readers who might have the same problem than I have.
If you are warned of what you will find you might even give a 5 star rating, that I think the authors deserve because for the most part their book is not bad.I think everyone will love this book way more than I do.
Five brother's (including twins), all of them smoking hot, arrogant, entitled and rich man-whores.Where do I sign up?!Enter Ella, the poor girl from the wrong side of the tracks, thrust into their world of elitists complete with mean girls and all sorts of high school paraphernalia.
If you happen to see this but don't feel like reading my review just have a look at "Who I would recommend it to and you'll know if it's something you would enjoy and if you're still not sure then just give it a go because trust me, it just sucks you in.
5 Royal Stars!DAMN FEELS.Let's just say this one quickly made it to my new favorite reads this year.
The storyline of Paper Princess was a little cliché to me maybe because in my younger years I used to go gaga over Boys Over Flowers and F4 and this book's story is pretty much similar to this Asian telenovela.
I haven't tried any Jen Frederick book but after reading this, I thought I'm going to grab her works one of these days.
The writing of the authors was so engaging and it simply draw me quickly to the story.Well-portrayed characters.
I’m a bit new to Erin Watt (Jen Frederick) and haven’t read any of her books, but I’ll be sure to remedy that very soon.Paper Princess is about a teenage girl named Ella, who after the passing of her mother has been living on her own.
She’s a strong female character who doesn’t need or want saving, but in this book she realizes it doesn’t hurt to accept help from others.
Ella also recognizes the value in hard work and doesn’t shirk away from jobs that others see as below themselves.
Erin Watt is the brainchild of two of my fave authors in NA right now: Elle Kennedy and Jen Frederick. So when I heard they're writing releasing a "cracktastic" book, I was like... Four hours and a cliffhanger later.... A word of warning. Do not read this book if you have something important to do the next day, like go to work or go to school or just doing something that needs you to be alert and awake because you're gonna fail at it. Hard. And all because of this book. Paper Princess is one of
Paper Princess is one of the most addicting books I've read in a while.
Set in a very privilege world of the rich and the insanely rich, Paper Princess follows a story of a young high school girl named Ella who, at the start of the book was struggling to get through her life.
As much as I loved reading about the Royals and can't help but be fascinated by them, the main attraction or the main character that keeps me glued to its pages was Ella.
There is still too much to uncover about the Royals, about Ella's biological dad, about Callum...everything.
I just wanted to say though that when I was 13/14 I read fanfiction that was just as bad as this book so like it doesn't seem that strange to me that this is YA.
Maybe because like I said I used to read fanficiton and this reminded me of what I used to enjoy about it.
I liked Ella and I enjoyed all the hijinks she gets to.
I can totally get why some people may not have enjoyed it but I really enjoyed it and I really want to read the next one.
”You’re a Royal now.” …and the cheese stands alone. This story simply never got me to the point where I felt like I was enjoying it. It’s in the vein of the The Prince and the Pauper story but with rich spoiled mean teens and felt like one big cliché. Even when the heroine’s love interest is clear and his feelings seem similar for her I was confused by what she found so attractive about him.  "Smile, I beg silently at him. Smile at me. Touch me. Kiss me. Anything." The story felt like drama for
This story simply never got me to the point where I felt like I was enjoying it.
It’s in the vein of the The Prince and the Pauper story but with rich spoiled mean teens and felt like one big cliché.
"Smile, I beg silently at him.
The story felt like drama for the sake of drama occurring page after page.
As a mom of a seventeen year old junior, I’m sad to inform you that this age group doesn’t speak like this at all.
Easton Royal and the heroine are the only characters that I did actually care for.
If you're looking for a read with:-Revenge plots-Sex and lust and hate-Crazy high school drama -Family secrets-A feisty heroine who falls for her kinda/sorta step brother who is a total asshole when he's not being sexy as all hell ...then this right here is it.
So what's the crazy world of the Royals all about?Ella is living on her own after her mother passing away and never having known her father.
Reed, the second oldest at 18 and pretty much the leader of the boys (and his entire school), takes a special interest in Ella.
this book was too much!
it was absurd and over the top and too dramatic and… i liked it!
this book (and im hoping the rest of the series) falls perfectly into my ‘guilty pleasure’ category.
i know im not getting any more intelligent by reading this and it is by no means a literary masterpiece, but there is something so captivating about the drama of highly fictional lives that draws me in and wont let go.
if only i was a destitute 17 year old girl, who gets scooped up by a millionaire and has to live with his five attractive sons.
It's a classic.Now reimagine it as an R-rated movie with smut galore.Now give all the mean girls dicks and a sexist attitude.
Then Callum Royal shows up, claiming to be the best friend of Ella's unknown father and assuming guardianship of her.
Easton has a sweet side to him.Callum Royal: I don't know what's worse: his drinking problem, his failures as a parent, his blatant PDA with his girlfriend, or the way he throws around money like it's chicken feed.The Twins: No comment on their "sharing" habits.Val: Ideal best friend.
Val knows what's up.I loved the book but kind of saw the ending coming.
Title: Paper Princess Series: The Royals #1Author: Erin Watt (Elle Kennedy and Jen Frederick)Release date:  April 4, 2016Cliffhanger: YesHEA(view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)]This book surprised the hell out of me.
Just my personal preference, I know a lot of readers go for the asshole hero every time, but I'm very, very picky when it comes to that.
These authors weaved their magic for me because they made me addicted and desperate for more of Ella and Reed's love/hate war relationship.
Ella comes to live with Reed when his father becomes her guardian.
All the power play between Ella and Reed developed into the kind of ripe sexual tension that readers dream of.
5 STARSWhat do you get when you meld together two brilliant storytellers, Elle Kennedy and Jen Frederick - aka Erin Watt, and throw in similar feels to Cruel Intentions, Mean Girls and a Modern day Cinderella?  I started this baby on a late night train home from a work thingy. I was exhausted and thought I’d just read a few chapters to unwind. By the time the train pulled into my station, I was like a junkie soaring from my last high and jonesing for my next hit!  I rushed home, jumped in bed an
but again, see above, I was freakin’ high as a kite and while I knew I'd eventually crash with one vicious book hangover, I didn’t care!Ella Harper’s a 17 year old dynamo; I simply adored this girl for her spunk, resilient and take-no-prisoners attitude.
These boys don’t like her and the ring leader, Reed Royal, makes it known that she’s not welcomed and they won’t go easy on her.
Despite all the machinations and mind games, Ella can’t help but face that she’s attracted to Reed even though he’s the biggest asshole to her.
I really liked each and every Royal...
Yep, this is one of those books that makes this old bird a very happy woman.17 year old Ella Harper has lived a very frugal life, and now she's all alone in the world without her beloved mother who recently passed away.
I want all of them to get a story, but I digress, he has five sons and when they discover that their father has won guardianship over a girl who is stripping for a living, it's safe to say they are not a happy bunch.
But as with any good book, the author slowly makes you fall in love and you can't help but be drawn in.I cannot wait for more.
The story is cliché-ish enough, but still -- loads of fun and loads of teen angst and loads of Mean Girls vibes and loads of sexy times and loads of bad boys and loads of this and that which make everything perfect in the end.
Not gonna talk about the plot -- shh, there isn't any honestly -- read the synopsis and you're pretty much good to go; but you need to know a couple of things: Ella, badass chick, strength incarnate, optimist extraordinaire; the Royal brothers (5 of them, IMAGINE THAT MUCH PHYSICAL PERFECTION), fucking assholes, intense dudes, and goddamn lovable actually.
I know many of the relationships are toxic and problematic and I completely understand that they wouldn’t be the healthiest and/or most ideal of starts for people in real life, but I love steamy reads and I rate them purely off my enjoyment, and I truly did enjoy Paper Princess.
He promises to give Ella a better life, because her father, too, has tragically just passed away.Ella is then thrown into the Royal family, where the man that is trying to help her also has five sons himself.
Also, I need to start Broken Prince immediately, because Paper Princess ends on maybe the worst cliffhanger I’ve ever read in my entire life.
I just finished my last book, which was sweet and perfect, my bubble of evading the world, and now I discovered this one, that unraveled me and gave me mixed feelings..My review won't be long, because I literally don't know how to express myself with the info that I have right now.So, Ella is our heroine.
Of course Ella puts up a good fight, but eventually she ends up in Callum's house, together with his 5 sons.
He hated Ella so much, but during her stay in his house, all the walls that he build were torn apart, because he had no reason to feel this way towards her.
