https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19435.Vampires_Don_t_Wear_Polka_Dots
Honestly, I'd love it if someone made movies out of the Bailey School Kids books and I think the perfect actress to play Mrs. Jeepers would be Susan Sarandon.With a Transylvanian accent and a green brooch, I think she would great as the third grade teacher who may or may not be a vampire.There is a really great subtlety of playing on the children's imaginations in these books and that you never have a definitive answer as to whether these adults really are the monsters the children think they are.
I've loved these books since the 90s when I was a kid and I've seen them really get children interested in reading, and if you can take a kid away from video games or television and actually want to sit down and read a book then I'm all for it.
I got this book to read to my 7 year old niece at night before bed.
She has been getting into the twilight series and vampires and werewolves, but I find them way to mature for her so I found this book and it is so great.
It kept her attention.
It had a little scare here and there but nothing bloody just things poping out at ya.
It has funny parts that wouldMake her laugh.
So if you have a young one like me who wants to be into the stuff like the older kids this book is for them.
I liked at the end because I think Howie knew Mrs Jeepers was a vampire but he was trying to protect her by not telling anyone.
Okay, so I read a lot of popular children's book series when I was a kid: Goosebumps, Magic Tree House, A to Z Mysteries, and so on...
I honestly don't know how this happened since I was all in for monsters and spooky stories as a kid, but I just never picked up one of these books.
Actually, I think I enjoyed this first book in the series (Vampires Don't Wear Polka Dots) more now than I would have even as a kid.
I know I'll be reading many of these books this Halloween season.FINAL VERDICT: 5 stars!
publisher: Scholasticmiddle grade fantasyA class of third grade students at Bailey Elementary School are getting a new teacher after they ran off Mrs. Deedee.
I mean, vampires don't wear polka dots.As I have recently said, I am getting to know several middle grade series that I am aware of but haven't read before.
This beginning of the Bailey School Kids series was...
I remember really loving Sachar's Wayside books when I was young and wondered how those would read to me today as I attempt to examine through a diversity lens.
Would those be a good alternative, although there are fewer books to the series?
"Mrs.Deedee had not actually gone nuts, but she had quit her job after she found her top desk drawer full of shaving cream." After Mrs.Deedee left, the students got a new teacher who was weird and strange.
On the second page of the book, Dadey describes the incident with the shaving cream by saying: "She had been looking for a pencil when she stuck her hands in the mint-scented shaving cream.
A wild look came into her eyes." The author did a great job by describing what what kind of shaving cream it was, as well as how Mrs.Deedee reacted.
I don't remember much about this series, only that I really enjoyed them. It was a fun story for young readers and the writing style was great. Although, I do remember that I really REALLY loved this one!
Kallie is reading this whole series, so I read the first book so I could know what it's all about. I have a hard time reviewing kids' books as an adult. I'm obviously not the target audience. Kallie, however, loves them.
But that's what our tetrad of troublemakers get with Mrs. Jeepers, a seemingly kind woman from the Transylvanian Alps who speaks in a thick Romanian accent, lives in the creepiest house in town, sneezes when exposed to garlic, and, oh yeah, shows all major signs of vampirism.But vampires don't wear polka dots, do they?That's up to the reader.
If you're looking for a book where every question is answered and every clue is explained, a'la Scooby-Doo, you'll probably want to steer clear of this series.
What signs point to Mrs. Jeepers being a vampire?
(And in fact there are almost 75 books in this series now, nearly all of them featuring a different mythological creature, which just on its own is pretty impressive.) These are very much for the younger end of the chapter-book crowd, in my opinion from ages 7 to about 9 or 10, featuring lots of illustrations and a ton of silly humor; and to their credit Dadey and Jones are much more interested in simply being entertaining than in trying to teach a moral lesson, usually a common trait among books for this age group.
This book is so awesome I swear it was written for me! How have I not read these books before?? Somehow I missed the Bailey School Kids series growing up :( So far this series reminds me a lot of Louis Sachar's Wayside School series (which is equally awesome!). Can't wait to check out more Bailey School Kids books!!
I CAN'T BELIEVE I HAVEN'T MARKED THESE AS "READ" YET!!! This was one of my absolute favorite series growing up, and I read them again, and again and again! So quirky and weird and funny! I just found a whole box of them while my mom and I were cleaning up and AAAAH I MISS THEM SO MUCH!For parents: These books are perfectly clean. None of the people the kids imagined were secretly "monsters" were ever actually monsters. There was always a perfectly reasonable explanation for everything. These stories are just good ol' silly fun. XD
I love this series (it's a good inspiration for what I want to write and I loved them all when I was younger) and got a copy for a student's birthday.
I enjoyed this book because I liked the part when the people in Mrs. Jeeper's class thought that Mrs. Jeeper was a vampire. But Mrs. Jeeper was actually wasn't. Mrs. Jeeper is kind of weird.
It is about a third grade class that is trouble makers until a mysterious teacher comes, Mrs. Jenkins, who they assume to be a vampire.
This book seemed intended for kids in upper elementary, 8-10 years old where they could relate to the students in Mrs. Jenkins class.
This once un-behaved class turns around with the works of Mrs. Jenkins who they assume is a vampire.
This is another mystery book in which the kids go investigate her office and classroom to try and find clues about their assumption of her being a vampire.
I rated this book well because I enjoyed how they related to kids of their own age.
Vampires Don't Wear Polka Dots is the first book in The Bailey School Kids series, centered around a group of kids at an elementary school.
I think the premise of the series is these normal kids with supernatural adults roaming around this town, but I'm really unclear on all the facts.
I read some of the other titles and realized that as a matter of fact, that is the basis of these books.
This book centers around a rowdy group of third grades who need a new teacher because they ended up driving the old one insane.
But for a book for children, it actually did catch my attention more than others.
But everyone knows that vampires don't wear polka dots.
As the adventures For Melody, Liza, Howie, and Eddie begin with their new teacher, it starts the the series of the "The Adventures of the Bailey School Kids." As you read, you get the mysterious feeling as you go into the world of vampires and kids that try to see if a vampire is really their teacher.
I like this book because its mysterious and funny.
Enjoy 'Vampires Don't Wear Polka Dots'(a vampire didn't write this, I swear)
The story is entertaining, the characters are interesting and well-drawn.
Four friends receive a new teacher after the class bully (Eddie) scared the last one away, an accomplishment he appears to be proud of.
When the new teacher arrives everyone suspects her of being a vampire, and Eddie does his best to get on her bad side, until she loses patience and apparently has a talk with her in the hall.
Everyone suspects her of having bitten him.
After this book, Eddie becomes less of a bully and more of a clown.The character development is fairly good.
This is another great book for kids who are digging into longer books.
This is also a great book series that can open the kids of to the genre of fantasy, since every book is about a new fantasy "monster," such as mummies, pirates, and martians.
I also think they are good examples for children to look at for well written books for their age.
One thing I liked about this book in particular was that it showed students that they should respect their teacher.
Overall, a great book and series for children who like reading fantasy to dive in to.
In my quest to read all the books my kids are reading, I've stumbled onto this series and it is by far my favorite series for young readers.
This series is about a group of kids who suspect there teachers are monsters (WHO CAN'T RELATE TO THAT!?!).
Each book has them investigate an individual they suspect to be some kind of monster.
In the first book, the four kids sneak around, trying to determine if in fact their teacher is a Vampire.
I can't tell you if she is or isn't, but I will tell you that these books are not scary, though mildly suspenseful at times.
Just what is it about kids’ books about weird teachers, anyway? Though it seems they come by the boatload, Vampires Don’t Wear Polka Dots is a cool take on the creature-teacher subgenre for kids.When the new teacher, Mrs. Jeepers, lands in the third grade at Bailey School, the kids begin to wonder how they’ll survive the year. A great mix of chilling humour makes Vampires Don’t Wear Polka Dots (and the rest of the Bailey School Kids series, too!) a wonderful pick for young readers this season and for the upcoming Halloween Holiday!
The Bailey School Kids series were my favorite books to read in Elementary school. My 2nd and 3rd grade teacher would read us a book from the series every week. Each book tells a story about an innocuous character that the Bailey School kids meet that may or may not be a mythical being. Vampires Don’t Wear Polka Dots is fun and imaginative for children. This would be a great book to read around Halloween, even though the children may get a little scared, the suspense keeps them engaged and alert.
I can see why my youngest son loved reading the Bailey School Kids when he was younger. This book had me in stitches with the way these kids were thinking. I could picture any classroom from when I was young to even my children's thinking like these kids. Very well written, and would be a great mentor text to introduce mystery genres to a classroom. I will be getting as much of this series as I can for my own classroom library, and I am sure that I will be reading them all as well.
I liked when she said 'That is quite enough'. I really, really liked the book. I liked when Eddie was white as a ghost, and I liked when Eddie spit the paper balls (spitballs). I liked when she was like 'Why is there whipped cream (shaving cream) in my desk!?!'. And I liked when she rubbed her brooch. And I liked when she played a game with them. And I liked the part that there was spiderwebs hanging from her chandelier.
The collection of "The adventures of the Bailey School Kids" stories are among my all-time favorite children's books. Witty, mischievous and fun, these short and silly books continue to bring giggles to the young and old. Just as I have enjoyed them as a kid, my own children also love them today. I even catch myself re-reading them (alone) from time to time. What can I say? I guess I'll always be a BSK kid at heart.
The things I love most about this series is that it keeps their attention, gets them thinking/using logic to determine what may or may not be, such as a vampire teacher, and it introduces the supernatural (which my kids love!) in a kid friendly way. I have two 6 year old girls and this is perfect for them. No sex, gore, violence, or blood. Just a supernatural mystery with chapters just long enough to read a couple every night before bed.
The kids liked this book but I didn't like the way it ended. There was no clear conclusion. Feb. 2016: I'd like to update my review of this kids' book. Since Feb. 2015 my grandkids and I have read a few other Bailey School books. They all have ended the same way, with no clear conclusion. I've come to like that about them. It gives the kids something to think about and enables them to form their own conclusions. Anything that gets a kid to think is ok with me.
This book is a fun and imaginative for children. Depending on the time of the year, this book would be very enjoyable during Halloween. Maybe a few children may get a little afraid especially younger elementary students. It is great thought for it keeps children engaged for what is going to happen.
Maybe it's not so surprising I read the Fear Street/Goosebumps books and the Bailey Kids books growing up. Now I read everything Stephen King has to offer and the Sookie Stackhouse books.Time is a wheel :)Anyway I adored these books when I was a kid. Read as many of them as I could get my hands on and then read them again and again. No Babysitter's Little Sisters crap for me!
It was a okay book to read. The kids really seemed to enjoy it.It was fun talking to the kids about wither or not they thought the teacher WAS a vampire and why. It wasn't as fun for me to read out-loud as some other books I've read them, but it had a decent flow to it. The chapters were a nice size.
