https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85443.The_Lords_of_Discipline
I love Pat Conroy and I don't think I could ever do justice when reviewing any of his books.
There aren't many authors who can do that so eloquently, tying in real world issues with a fictional world full of characters who are well developed and a plot line that makes me want to keep reading until I get to the end.
Some of this book was really rough though especially the scenes with the hazing but I think it's really necessary to have that visceral reaction to the things happening in the story.
Conroy makes his story true and maybe this is over the top statement, but most of the time I feel like I am inside, like I’m in the book, feeling a bit embarrassed because I'm watching what is happening with his characters.
During four extremely brutal and agonizing years he was psychologically, physically, emotionally and morally humiliated, degraded in every possible way a human can tolerate, or not tolerate, because plebe system during the first year makes you swallow blood and expect nervous breakdown.
It’s his love letter to Charleston and I often read passages out loud.
From the beginning this book was intense but Will is just so powerful and attractive character that you live with him during the reading.
This would be the 3rd unforgettable book I've read by Mr. Conroy in the past year, and to date. I just love reading his work. There is no other way to put it. He just simply writes, in my humble opinion, the most beautiful sentences I have ever read. He has an unflinching capacity to be so brutally honest it often hurts. But it is the greatest pain one can recieve from a great novel. The amount of passion, pain, and pure adrenaline within the pages of this book will not let the reader put this one down. I promise!
Wow. An incredibly in-depth novel about life for young men in a military school. Hilarious, tragic, and sobering, THE LORDS OF DISCIPLINE is one of the best books I've ever read.
A book of several plot lines and experiences that reflect the plebe system, racism, class, and secrecy. Honor is taught and praised but not all follow. Loyalty to your fellow cadets is earned; others are forced out. A system that takes Marine boot camp from eleven weeks to four years. The task is taken to earn the title or in this case the ring and become part of a brotherhood that is forever.
It focuses on Will McLean’s dark experiences in his last year at the Carolina Military Institute, a school where administration turns the other cheek to vicious hazing practices designed to produce “real men.” This is a story about love and hate, and how these two values we associate with everyday objects, ultimately shape who we become.In this novel, the reader is put in the shoes of Will McLean, a senior at the Carolina Military Institute.
I believe this book has particular value for the two extremes of the social spectrum.
As with all Conroy books there are many plot lines in the story. So many, that when they made the movie, they left out the main one! Nevertheless, a writer like Conroy can handle that many stories with his superb prose.As a graduate of West Point we always wondered why people went to the Citadel to be abused. I still wonder although it is an ingrained part of society in that part of the country.Conroy was never afraid to take on difficult topics and his frank look at the racism might even be understated.An excellent read.
I was introduced to this book at Pat Conroy by my high school algebra teacher.
Conroy's descriptions of Charleston are priceless.
Some of my favorite quotes come from this book.I return to this work yearly to explore my old friends once more and with each reading I find a nuance that I had overlooked in the past.From the opening passages where Will McLean says that "walking the streets of Charleston in August is like walking through gauze or inhaling damaged silk." To the tragic, yet triumphant ending this book remains a fascinating snapshot of a period in southern history that is both specific and timeless.A wonderful primer on the love/hate relationship many intelligent and progressive Southerners have with their own beloved part of the world.
Wow this is a rough Read. Interesting what was expected or accepted during the Vietnam War. There was no room for the week. These young men were put through rigorous and demeaning torture that was definitely the actions of ruthless young men that had a history of violence or abuse in their younger lives. The power hungry, older officers should have been charged with Conduct Unbecoming an Officer and a Gentleman. On the flip side there was a group of friends that were very loyal to each other...or were they? Good writing, characters and narration.
I love Conroy's humor in this book, the way he uses it to diffuse some incredibly raw scenes. I cried so hard when Pig walks down the line and the men turn their back on him. And then the train. Ugh. It absolutely broke my heart. I love all of Conroy's books for their descriptions, for introducing me to the beautiful South, and for his characters. He has strong people with strong issues which makes them real. And the men are vulnerable and strong and that's not something you see in many books. Thank you Pat Conroy.
I read this book over the course of two days in September 2000. I could not put it down. It was recommended to me by a friend who attend The Citadel. I rarely read books as fast as I read this one. I highly recommend it.
But to me, Charleston is a dark city, a melancholy city, whose severe covenants and secrets are as powerful and beguiling as its elegance, whose demons dance their alley dances and compose their malign hymns to the side of the moon I cannot see..."He goes on to say that he's not a good person, and we won't like him after he finishes telling us his story.
The Ten and Charleston have those secret and beguiling covenants.The Lords of Discipline is set in Will McLean's Senior year at the Carolina Military Institute in 1966-1967.
I had expected to hear a story of hazing and tough military discipline.
And I knew that the main character was loosely based on Conroy and his years at The Citadel because I had read about his tenuous relationship with his alma mater for years and read about the reconciliation and his returning to the college to deliver what I think was a commencement address.
I did not, however, expect to read a story of a whole and complete person, one who commands so much more respect than the majority of the "officers and gentlemen" in positions of authority at the college.
There is so much to this story and so many characters.
This is one of my favorite Conroy books, though the subject matter isn't easyfor those of us who know The Citadel, but there's much that's true about it back in the day.
It made it to a Banned/Challenged Books list.
It was challenged in the Cobb County, Ga. schools (1992) for profanity and descriptions of sadomasochistic acts.
School Board (1992) due to parental complaints about language and sex in the book.
Imagine that!I support freedom to read.
Read more about banned books at The Forbidden Library and the  American Library Association.
Fantastic book!
Pat Conroy does an excellent job conveying the life of a student at Carolina Military Institute (based on the Citadel).
Conroy has a wonderful writing style that really enables the reader to visualize everything in the novel, from the atmosphere of Charleson to the vicious beating the cadets endure.
The book is told from one boy's point of view and begins with his senior year, but has flashbacks to his earlier years.
While you may flinch at the violence that is tolerated at such a school, you really understand the pull of becoming an "Institute Man" and the internal struggle the main character has with becoming such a thing.
This fulfills the category of reading a book published the year you turned 18/graduated high school.
What a fantastic find!The Lords of Discipline tells the powerful story of Will McLean, a senior who attends the prestigious South Carolina military school, also known as the Institute.
This is crucial to the story line because of the time period the setting of the book is based off of.Conroy's love for Charleston clearly shows through in his flowery and poetic descriptions of it and the South.
Pat Conroy draws upon some of the events of his days as a cadet at The Citadel to tell the story of Will McLean, a senior who attends the fictional Carolina Military Institute in Charleston, South Carolina on a basketball scholarship.
The reader is graced with a vivid depiction of life in the barracks for The Citadel's attendees during possibly its most brutal and demanding era, that of the war in Vietnam.This is a rare work of intelligence, humor and emotion.
Conroy estabishes himself as one of the truly great American writers with this work.
Oh wow, just wow.....I know that I should be the president of the "I love Pat Conroy fan club", but this book was just in a word fantastic.
I went through the gauntlet of emotions while reading this story.
He lays his emotions out in the open and fills his characters with such reality that you would know them if they walked into a room in which you were seated.This book about a young man's coming of age while enrolled in Southern military schools, was filled with pathos, love, and an understanding that it is more than a uniform that makes one a man.
Powerful and wonderfully told through the memories of a young man who experienced the hazing culture of a southern military college. Conroy said the school was a composite of several schools, but it strikingly resembles the Citadel in Charleston, SC where the story takes place. Great characters, memorable action, and Charleston is so well described the old city serves as an additional character in the plot. Powerful suspense and a satisfying ending. Conroy was a master.
4.5I figured I should read the most notorious Citadel novel now that I work there.
It's a little melodramatic in a couple of places and depicts a couple things that are hard to read but on the whole is a great work.
I see both how he still loved the place despite its brutality at the time he went through it and why he felt compelled to expose that brutality.
It's easy to see why The Citadel excommunicated him for a time.
His descriptions of Charleston made me want to get to know my new city.
Mr. Conroy explains that this book was banned for years in schools and institutions in the USA.
Pat Conroy has me sympathizing with the freshmen as they are bullied and hazed all year long.
The badgering and vile language is very difficult to hear and I often needed to stop the reading or turn the volume to nearly off until the rampage was over.
Due to the abundance of swearing in this novel, and I abhor hearing swearing even more than I dislike reading swear words, I gave this book only 3 stars.
Fantastic characters, and an even narrative that made it such an absorbing read.
While Lords of Discipline had fine characters, the narrative was, at best, uneven, and in dire need of a good editor.Sprawling and highly repetitive descriptions of Charleston are thickly spread throughout the novel (well, at least for the first 54%).
The term staged dialogue came to mind as I was reading this.
Unfortunately, the redundant descriptive prose and corny dialogue were too much to get through.
COMPELLING."Cruelty was an easy sport to master when practiced anonymously."—screen 971Any atrocity is okay if it's done for the sake of the tribe.THE LORDS IF DISCIPLINE, by Pat Conroy, is one of the most compelling, 'hard-to-put-down' novels I've ever read.
It brutally probes the subtlest nuances of honor, of integrity, of character, of cruelty, of callousness, and of fear.How have I missed reading this incredibly haunting story, first published in 1980, for thirty-four years?Recommendation: A 'must read'."...I was a lone, absurd, figure in the history of my times, a sleeper in the history of ruthless law, of bombers over suburbs, of artillery barrages destroying the gaily painted walls of kindergartens."—screen 1147iBook digital edition, 1,337 screens (<> 561 pages)
Rare indeed is it that I, someone early to bed and late to rise, finds himself wide awake at 1:30am unable to even consider going to bed until the book being read is finished.
This almost unbelievable scenario took place last night as I kept turning the pages of this book.This is the 3rd or 4th Conroy novel I have read to date (I have my Losing Season on the shelf) and it is without doubt the best so far.
I found it thematically the most clear and therefore the most satisfying in that regard as well.
An excellent read. Pat Conroy is an amazing writer and story teller. This is a fictional account of a cadet at Carolina Military Institute in the late 60's....based on the author's own experiences at The Citadel during the same time. While difficult to read and even more difficult to digest at times, this should not be missed. Riveting!!!
One of my students was being recruited to play football at the Citadel, the fictional setting for this book. I told him I couldn't let him go until he read this book. Conroy's said this book is the reason for years he was not welcomed to the campus. Now it's included in the curriculum. Deep, rich, eloquent. I loved this one.
והפער בין העשירים שנחשבים לאליטה החברתית והעניים לא יכול להיות בוטה יותר.בשנה הראשונה כחניך וויל מתיידד עם טראד, בן למשפחה עשירה מהאליטה של צ'רלסטון.
והוא לא מצליח.מבחינתי, האירוע שהיה הכי מזעזע בחלק שעסק בשנה הראשונה, היה החלק שתיאר את ההתעללות בחניך בשם פוטיי ואת התוצאות של ההתעללות הזו: (view spoiler)[פוטיי, בן למשפחת בנקאים עשירים שהגיע לבית הספר כדי לעבור את השנה הראשונה ולהוכיח לאביו שהוא לא נמושה.
(hide spoiler)]ואם חשבתי שהחלק על פוטיי היה גרוע ולא יכול להיות יותר מכך, התבדתי.באירוע מכונן אחר, המדריכים פשוט שוברים את וויל בדרך המזעזעת ביותר.
“In Charleston, more than elsewhere, you get the feeling that the twentieth century is a vast, unconscionable mistake.”  “Evil would always come to me disguised in systems and dignified by law.”  This is a story about four cadets, in their final year at a military institute called The Citadel.
It is 1966, Charleston, S.C. Will McLean is our wise-cracking narrator.
He is also a poor boy from Georgia, with an authority problem.
This novel is about friendships and loyalty, but there is also debauchery and betrayal, with a bit of misguided romance thrown in.
There is also a wicked society, inside The Citadel, that Will begins to investigate.
I’ve had this book since 2012 in my to read pile. So happy I found time to finally focus on it. Not disappointed it’s a well crafted piece of manuscript. I didn’t realize Pat Conroy had passed away in 2016. I have a couple more of his novels I’ll have to read sooner than later. Now that I know how talented he was.
I know that this book is the foundation for most of Conroy's story telling, but I have to say, that perhaps because of his immaturity in his writing career at that time, it is poorly edited and a bit self-inflated.
Pat Conroy is one of my favorite contemporary writers, but I find one thing I consistently dislike in his stories.
On the other hand, how do we know which of his characters a writer is using to portray himself...
