https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310459.Roll_of_Thunder_Hear_My_Cry
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Set in Mississippi during the Great Depression, Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry is a searing portrait of family and self-worth. Every child deserves to know Taylor's firebrand protagonist, Cassie Logan, and experience her untiring battle against social injustices and racism.
I first was exposed to this book in fifth grade and I have to say, it changed me forever.
I guess as a child, until I read this book, I thought there was slavery and then there was freedom.
This book taught me that there was a LOT of gray in between and it made me angry to know that there really wasn't justice and equality for everyone in my country, the way it was "supposed" to be.
It was the first time a book exposed me to the idea that there can and is a disconnect between what laws say, what the government says, and what actually happens in practice.
when i was little, i would get dropped off at the library in lieu of daycare, particularly in the summer, when there were programs for kids without friends.
just what was it i was reading??
(i think i read mostly lois duncan)but this book is great, really.
the writing is very good - she has a great ear for realistic dialogue and she builds tension very well, it is even an adult-book-length!
i wonder if the woodside library has summer programs for friendless kids.
i may have to join them and take the lois duncan out of their hands.
The Logan family may seem to be at the mercy of the local white folks, but they're not going down without a fight.Her mother attempts to explain to Cassie the facts:"How come Mr. Simms went and pushed me like he did?"Mama's eyes looked deeply into mine, locked into them, and she said in a tight clear voice, "Because he thinks Lillian Jean is better than you are, Cassie .
. ."When Cassie wonders if Mr. Simms thinks Lillian Jean is better because she is his daughter, Mama's answer stuns her:"No, baby, because she's white."Her father explains things a little differently:"There are things you can't back down on, things you gotta take a stand on.
Here are a couple of my favorite quotations from the book:(During a conversation between Cassie and her mother after Cassie is treated horribly by Lillian Jean Simms and her father):"I didn't say that Lillian Jean is better than you.
In fact, he thinks she's better than Stacey or Little Man or Christopher-John--""Just 'cause she's his daughter?" I asked, beginning to think Mr. Simms was a bit touched in the head."No, baby, because she's white."Mama's hold tightened on mine, but I exclaimed, "Ah, shoot!
Some cases where “Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry” was banned or challenged: **1993: A Louisiana high school removed it from its reading list because of “racial bias.”Mar 24, 2014 This book is about family and the strong ties that bind them, as well as racism in America during the Great Depression.
Anger, sadness, embarrassment, disbelief, to name a few.
Anger by far was the most prevalent.
A historical fiction novel this is...
This story takes place in 1933, it was published in 1976, and here we are, in 2016, and this book hasn't dated at all.
Also, Logan is quite possibly the coolest last name ever.The African-American folks in this book all spoke with a demeaning way, but so did the white people.
However, that doesn’t override the fact that it just isn’t a good story.I think it’s important for people to know about these kinds of things, to be well-informed so this kind of prejudice won’t happen again (though I doubt we can prevent some form of it from happening eventually unless Jesus comes soon … people are pretty sinful and stupid as a whole, if you haven’t noticed).However, we shouldn’t be required to read bad books to get one little message.
This review was written for my young-adult literature class...Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry by Mildred Taylor is a beautifully narrated novel about racism, class distinction, friendship, pride, and love.
Taylor writes with a preoccupation for sounds and she develops the extended metaphor of the growing storm to emphasize tension in the community as well as the need for and the inevitability of relief.In the beginning pages of the book, Cassie describes the Jefferson Davis County School, the school that the white children attend.
Every day I watch videos of white people, emboldened BY Trump's presidency, calling Black people niggers or telling minorities to go back where they came from...
Mildred Taylor has created a family that isn't the damn Cosby show.
They are aware of the white people around them, but not afraid of them.
I felt the strength from Cassie's mom, dad, and Uncle Hammer flow through me as I read this.
I would never bow down to a white person...
And I'll be damned if I ever will.
And my daughter, like Cassie, will follow on those footsteps.
During reading this book, it made me feel anxious that the idea of racism, judgment, criticism, and stereotypes are existing in our society.
It is our thoughts that are making people in our society being judged and criticized.
When will the idea of racism be gone and be broken in our society?", and I think that the answer is that, racism and criticism of people who are different from "normal" people will never end.
Until we come to a day when everyone starts to abandon the thoughts and stereotypes and make a new society where there is no racism existing.
This has been on our family book shelf f-o-r-e-v-e-r. Sorry I took so long to actually read it. It is marvelous! The main protagonist, nine-year old Cassie Logan, is also the delightful narrator. Excellent, if not sobering way to introduce middle schoolers+ to racism in America in the 1930s.I cannot help wondering what kind of equivalent book will be written about our era for the young people of tomorrow...
I truly had high hopes for this book, as it is highly recommended.
However, I am completely dissatisfied by the whole story.
The whole story is against racism, and yet all whites are evil and racist except for a few exceptions, and all blacks are hardworking and good except for a few exceptions.
The characters are all boring and one sided, and has little to no character development.
WE DID NOT NEED TO DEVOTE SO MANY PAGES TO A HISTORY OF THE LOGAN FAMILY.
Honestly, no one cares about the Logan family history.
This was a terrible book and DON’T BUY IT.
I'm proud to have an African-American descent and I want them to be as well, or at least gain awareness and a sense of solidarity with their forebears.All of us loved the story.
Loved the Logan family!
And talk about a family rich in love, frugality, industry, dignity (when it was hard to come by), and human goodness.Mildred Taylor says in the forward of her book that although the story is fiction, it consisted of the stories she grew up listening to by fireside.
And I love when stories have real-life complexity.
This is a tremendously beautiful story. By the time it ends you feel like you know every single character. I hated to say goodbye to the Logans but I am also afraid to read the other stories in case they are not as good. Truly important book which continually made me ask myself, "Would I have done that if I grew up in that culture?" It is a scary question.
Although I didn't remember a lot of details (37 years have passed since I read it) I do remember loving the characters, especially Cassie and Little Man. I also remember being incredulous that people were treated in such an awful way just because of the color of their skin.
I didn't remember Uncle Hammer and on this reading of the book he became one of my favorites.I don't even remember which family friend gave me the book but now I see how cool and "on point" they were way back in 1977.
This is one of those books I think everyone should read.
Taylor tells an inspiring and compelling drama.Nine-year-old Cassie Logan is a fortunate young girl because her family owns their own land.
The whites don't like the face that the Logans own their own land, because it makes them independent, which is a kind of power on its own.Cassie is the second youngest of four kids, with her oldest brother Stacey beginning to transition into manhood, her next oldest brother Christopher-John the most timid of all, and her youngest brother Little Man not afraid to speak his mind, and a strong little mind he has.
I really really enjoyed this book... until the end. I'm certain that it was realistic, but still! How depressing. I really disliked T.J. from the start, and didn't know what Stacey liked him. All in all, this was pretty good history-wise, (as far as I could tell) but not enjoyment-wise.
In this award-winning novel for young people, all the black people (with possibly one exception) are honest, kind, hardworking, ambitious, intelligent, and good looking.
All the white people (with one or two exceptions) are cruel, dishonest, malevolent rednecks, who persecute the "colored people" for no reason at all.
Historically, the Jim Crow era wasn’t all smiles and sassafrass tea, but there were good and bad people on both sides of the street, just like now.
In our current climate of political correctness, the pendulum has swung in the other direction, but young people are still required to read this tripe.
I had previously read Song of the Trees, a short book that tells a story that comes just before the events of Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry. It's an intriguing and rather haunting book.
But in Roll of Thunder, Taylor has more space to build a very powerful story of daily life and racism in Mississippi in the Great Depression.
I found this very inspiring, that each family member knows what his or her role is at any given time, fulfilling that role as best as they can.Second, I like the ever-watchful, guardian role that nature plays throughout the story.
but I didn't feel that with this one.Perhaps that is due to the fact that this was told in first person by Cassie Logan, who is 9.
And to add to that, at times I felt that Cassie was kind of annoying in her demands and talkbackitude to be able to tell the story, and that kind of grated on my nerves.
This is part of a series, and that probably has a large part to play in the way the ending ended, but I just feel that there was a big something missing, and I'm not sure that I was invested enough in the story to continue on with the series.
Cassie Logan doesn't understand why possessing land means so much to her family, nor does she realize that so many of the white people around her think she's inferior to them.
Then the night riders appear, threatening the black people in her community with tar and feathers and burning, and Cassie herself is humiliated by a white girl.
The characterization is excellent, not only of Cassie, but of her whole family and her friends, of the white people who target them and the few who support them.
It's amazing to us that this book is forty years old. It's as powerful and relevant now as it was in 1976, perhaps even more so.  White is something just like black is something. Everybody born on this earth is something and nobody, no matter what color, is better than anybody else. From their love of the land to their love of one another and their fellow man, the Logans are a family that you need to spend time with. Highly recommended, even if (especially if) you've read it before.
I am not super into children's literature, and I wouldn't have read this if I didn't need a children's classic for both Read Harder and PopSugar, but I'm glad I did.
She also balanced that so well with the love between Cassie and her family, and the ordinary moments that made up their daily life.I really wish I had read this as a kid--I don't remember being exposed to a lot of books by or about people of color, and I think I would have loved this book and benefited from reading the Logans' story.
even high school.One of those books that I never got around to reading.I just realized that all three of these books have a little gold circle somewhere on the cover - so maybe that means my teachers just always had Newberry Medal Winners on hand.
although, that may soon be replaced by digital everything...You know:(Caveat Emptor on that book, by the way...)At any rate, there were spots for the white school, and spots for the black school.
Once the books were "poor" they were given to the black school.
I did not expect to love it as much as I did.The book is narrated by Cassie, a precocious nine-year-old girl who lives with her family in the Deep South.
I felt like I should take notes when Ms. Logan spoke to her children about racism at night, while she sat on Cassie’s bed.There’s a moment in this book where almost all the characters are affected by racism.
What Taylor does best is demonstrate, with considerable subtlety, how racism affects not only the victims, but their families and their friends.This book is powerful.
Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry is a fictional story about the Logan family who are African Americans living during the 1930s depression in Mississippi.
The plot is narrated by Cassie, the daughter of the Logan family.
Each of the events in the plot teaches Cassie the importance of owning land and that the sacrifices to maintain that ownership are worth the struggles because of the freedom the land gives the family.
The story reads as a bildungsroman as Cassie learns and grows from the experiences told in the novel.
Overall, I enjoyed the book.
I also cannot tell you how many times I have checked this book out from various libraries, just to re-read the Logan's all over again.But what I can tell you is that, hands down, this is one of the most life changing books I have ever read and the lessons I have taken from this book (and its subsequent books) are indescribable.
Words cannot explain how formative this book was to me as a youth and continues to be to me as an adult."Baby, we have no choice of what color we're born or who our parents are or whether we're rich or poor.
What we do have is some choice over what we make of our lives once we're here." Mama cupped my face in her hands.
2018 re-read -- dang, it's just as amazing and addictive as when I read it the first time.
This time around, I thought about all the ways in which things are still the same or how injustice has transformed.
I partially re-read this because Angie Thomas said it was one if her childhood faves and the Logan fam definitely reminds me of the Carters.
I think Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry is the best book title ever btw.
I remember this book from 5th grade, but didn't read it until I was 24.
تحدد الكتاب للمناقشة القادمة بإذن اللهشكرا لأم علاوي ، مشجعتي القرائية..القصة ترويها الطفلة كيسي، تصف في مرحلة ما من عمرها، شيئا من المعاناة التي لاتزال تدغدغ خيالهاالأحداث مؤلمة لكنني أعتقد أن كل ماقيل فيها ليس إلا غيضا من فيضفبديهي جدا أن تكون اللآلام استمرت بعد انتهاء القصة، وربما تفاقمت مع كبر أبطالها في السنالجميل في الأمر أن القارئ بستطيع بكل سهولة أن يتخيل الأحداث حية أمامهيحس بالطين ويشم رائحة الحرائقوأعتقد أيضا أن قرائتها بالإنجليزية كانت لتكون أكثر متعة..
If empathy is one of the goals of reading, then I think this book is important for all children to read at some point in their education (probably 5th-8th grade would be most appropriate). I love how the reader draws us into the African-American experience in 1933 Mississippi. Beautifully written, and a fun book to teach.
