https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9644151-ashfall
i read a lot of teen survival stuff, it's kind of my thing.
true, this kid is not entirely selfish - he definitely has heart and respect for human life and holds on to some pity.but he'll do some stuff.and the girl he meets up with is the same way.
this world is completely realized; even if some of the scenes are brief as alex makes his way, they are always richly detailed and ba-DOW!!i cannot recommend this book highly enough, to you people who like this kind of thing.true, it is dark and bleak and tough, but the violence is never gratuitous or shock-value.
My mates over at Tanglewood Press have asked me not to review this book until a month prior to its release.So. Instead, I give you:Elle's Top Ten List of Things Learnt From Reading Ashfall1.
Mike Mullin is a genius2.
Bald chicks are hot3.
Bunnies are delicious 4.
Toilet water is also delicious5.
I should really get around to planting that corn field...6.
Mike Mullin is who I will befriend during the next apocalypse7.
Darla: a name no longer reserved for 1930's boobalicious southern damsels8.
Despite what you've been told, Obama will not save you from a slow and excruciating demise9.
Alex starts off this book as a somewhat spoiled teenage boy.
Don't go and Google that shit like I did.
It will scare the crap out of you.
Alex grows up fast and goes in search of his family.
Along the way he is joined by Darla..who is flipping awesome.
It's rare in young adult books that the female mc is cooler than the male one but it happens here.
Alex is very likable and not a wuss at all.
There isn't really insta-love in this book and thank you Jesus and Mike Mullin for that.Now for that frigging disaster.
This one actually scared me.
June 27, 2012SUPERVOLCANO!!!I strongly recommend a visit to karen's fabulous review, which (along with her encouragement) got me interested in this gripping and realistic tale.  AND! A SPECIAL GUEST APPEARANCE BY karen IS FEATURED IN THIS JOINT REVIEW!! YAY!!  So here is what we are talking about. We will start with some science.Pic #1: Ashfall zones from known eruptions of the Yellowstone Supervolcano:'Age=' : millions of years ago for the specific eruption.How likely is an eruption during our
Within the past 17 million years, 142 or more caldera-forming eruptions have occurred from the Yellowstone hotspot, as discussed in this Wikipedia article.AshfallIn what follows, I will focus (as usual) on big-picture aspects of the story, and stay (mostly) away from plot details.
karen’s comments: well, there is an attempt made in the book to gather people together into refugee camps, but what happens there seems to be a criticism on the way FEMA is unprepared to deal with large-scale events of this kind.
For the first time ever, I felt ashamed of my species. The volcano had taken our homes, our food, our automobiles, and our airplanes, but it hadn’t taken our humanity. No, we’d given that up on our own. Being a teenager in a world covered with ashes is not easy at all. Alex discovered that after the eruption of a volcano in Yellowstone National Park. His parents and his little sister had left town just before the earth started to shake and Alex was left all alone in a burning house with no one
His parents and his little sister had left town just before the earth started to shake and Alex was left all alone in a burning house with no one but himself and two friendly neighbors to rely on.
The love between Alex and Darla was beautiful and refreshing, especially when compared to all the exaggerated and unconvincing romances we came to expect in postapocalyptic YA literature.
That’s not to say that Alex is weak or that there’s anything remotely epicene about him.
Sure, sometimes he lets his temper get the best of him, but mostly he is calm and more level-headed than any 15-year-old I’ve ever met.(view spoiler)[In fact, he was a little too perfect at times.
The first night after I started reading this book, I dreamt about being stuck in a house and hiding from some people while trying to survive/escape.
We got to live through it with Alex while he was unaware of what was happening or why his house was basically falling down on him.I hate to compare books, especially with big hits like the Hunger Games.
Once the ash started falling and Alex figured it wasn't going to stop any time soon, he left to go find his family who were away at his uncle's house.
But my physical TBR pile is literally (view spoiler)[(that’s a proper “literally”, thanks very much) (hide spoiler)] big enough to do me an injury (albeit a minor one) if it fell on me, and somehow Ashfall repeatedly ended up on the bottom of that stack.
That at the core it was a very human story about survival, and what drives a person in the face of overwhelming odds.I wouldn’t necessarily call Ashfall a fast-paced book - the tension waxes and wanes throughout.
COME ON MIKE, GIMME BLADES OF SPRING.----------SUCH a fantastic book.
Well written, well researched, detailed but fast-paced, frightening and exciting.
There were several times reading this where I was literally terrified of what was happening or what would happen next for Alex.
I need the next one SO BAD right now but I'm gonna make myself wait until I've read the stack of...
four books?
Gotta finish the four other library books before I'll let myself grab the second one in this series.
BUT I'M SO EXCITED!
Who knows.----------update: My dad read this last week and loved it :D excited for him to read the other two!
These seem to be in slow supply these days, sadly.Ashfall tells the story of 15 year-old Alex traveling from Cedar Falls, Iowa to Warren, Illinois after the supervolcano in Yellowstone National Park unexpectedly erupts.Let's pause for a bit:If you are like me and didn't really pay close attention in school about volcanoes, or skipped science class, or slept your way to graduation (view spoiler)[
(hide spoiler)], you may be asking, "What is the likelihood of a supervolcana erupting without notice?" And I would tell you, "How should I know?" But thankfully, this discussion was hashed out over at Anila's review in the comments for your viewing pleasure.
There are several different reasons why people enjoy apocalypse stories.
But we’re going to have a different kind of struggle to the one the main character has.He was a reasonable character who started off a little weak and boring for me.
This book deals with themes of government oppression and corporate greed that vaguely felt silly to me.
Socialism, government fear, issues with authority and autonomy aren’t as big a deal here and I think gave a triteness to this novel, for me, that a different audience would find powerful and unsettling.
Over all it was a fun read, and for a different audience, I think it would serve its purpose very strongly.
I remember a high school history teacher telling us that if there were ever a nuclear attack he recommended getting in a car and driving as fast as possible towards New York City, most likely it would be a target and you'd have a better chance of getting instantly killed the closer you were to 'ground zero' (this was when ground zero meant the spot where nuclear warheads would strike, and at a time when we feared IBM's flying over Canada as a doomsday scenario, one that you figure gives you time to realize, yup it's all over, and decide if you should duck and cover, hide in some basement since you never got around to building a bomb shelter, or getting in your car and driving as fast as possible towards the largest population center in hopes of being killed instantly).
Oh wow this girl is almost more impressive than Alex.
This girl is made of the strongest stuff people can be made of, but again she is vulnerable just like everyone else in this situation.
What makes them both such powerful characters is how they could be people that exist.Though this hits the end of the world feel right on, it is a strangely a life-affirming book.
It strips away all the unnecessary things we live with, and shows life in its barest and probably most beautiful form.I can't wait to experience what Alex and Darla do next in Ashen Winter.
So imagine the super-volcano at Yellowstone National Park erupted and caused the grid to fall, no more electricity, no more travel by car or plane, food is scarce, ash fall causes roofs to fall in and buildings to cave, people start looting and acting like maniacal animals...
So, the ending was kind of unsatisfactory, and I don't really feel the urgent need to find out what happens either.Darla was a great character.
That was probably the best part of the book.The thing that got me the most about this is that this kind of thing *could* happen, and everything WOULD go crazy.
Whether he describes a desperate family sifting through the rubble of a collapsed gas station and getting aggressive when Alex turns up with a seemingly well-filled backpack, whether he has Alex fighting or building a shelter or kissing a girl, or whether he shows Alex’ embarrassment when Darla discovers his fear of heights, it fit the whole and it felt real and right.I cannot pinpoint the scene, but at some point I knew that I had fallen head over heels in love with both Alex and his love interest – maybe especially his love interest: Darla is a very resourceful, strong and outspoken girl.
**4 ~Can they catch a break~ Stars**Wow...I normally stay away from YA books but this one was good...it was written so well, that at times I forgot that these were just kids trying to stay alive.Yes, there were times that I felt the book slowed down and others where I found it so unbelievable that these kids couldn't catch a break, but it worked in the long run.Definitely a different twist to the post apocalyptic world and believable consequences that could happen at any time.I absolutely LOVED Darla ---- awesome character and well developed!
So, now he is by himself and loving life, right?Not. See, when you are teen trying to act like an adult, sometimes you need to make adult decisions.
Sometimes, those decisions are huge like fleeing for your life because a supervolcano has erupted.
It has action, lots of bad people, a bit of good ole fashion violence, a really smart girl that puts Alex in his place, and a sweet romance (with the smart girl no less).Besides being a fun, natural disaster survival book, it also has a great main character in Alex.
It is so refreshing to just love a book without it having some super serious plot and lots of angst.
Christmas present from Jen (Nevada Jen)  *4.5 Stars* For the first time ever, I felt ashamed of my species. The volcano had taken our homes, our food, our automobiles, and our airplanes, but it hadn't taken our humanity. No, we'd given that up on our own. Oh my gosh, guys...this book was SO good!!! I think I'm only shocked because, well, I kept putting it off and putting it off and then my wonderful Jen bought this for me for Christmas. Turns out??? I am a total MORON for not reading this before
I was so happy when I began to realize that we were going to get to see Alex struggling (I mean it...he literally struggled not to die all the time lol) every single day and that it wasn't, oh, I don't know...forced??
Now, I'm not sure how people feel about love in a dystopian world (Um, I'm all for it, clearly) but this wasn't really what I was expecting when I started this book.
If you love bunnies....I dunno if you'd like this book lol.
“For the first time ever, I felt ashamed of my species. The volcano had taken our homes, our food, our automobiles, and our airplanes, but it hadn’t taken our humanity. No, we’d given that up on our own.” Define Humanity: hu·man·i·ty, noun, plural -ties.1. all human beings collectively; the human race; humankind.2. the quality or condition of being human; human nature.3. the quality of being humane; kindness; benevolence.Define survival: sur·viv·al, noun1. the act or fact of surviving, especiall
the quality of being humane; kindness; benevolence.Define survival: sur·viv·al, noun1.
a person or thing that survives or endures, especially an ancient custom, observance, belief, or the like.Define monstrosity: mon·stros·i·ty, noun, plural -ties.1.
How can you tell the difference between a human and a person?Listen to me...When this book comes out, pick it up people, and read it.
But, if the end of the world story happens to be about a natural disaster – say like a massive volcano eruption – then I am in heaven.
It is a young adult book with a male main character, set in a location I know intimately well because I grew up there, and involving a super volcano eruption and its aftermath.
The story begins as many young adult books do, the hero of the story is alone because his parents are gone for the weekend and well, the world ends.
So many end of the world and survival stories take place in urban settings.
I'm not entirely sure why I put myself through reading books like this when they cause a sense of panic to flow right through my body and out the end.
Honestly I would be completely inadequate; I don't know any survival skills; I couldn't butcher a pencil let alone an animal.
*Please note I'm recruiting for any skilled professionals who will ponder to my every whim- must be ready to leave their lives behind if an impending natural disaster is imminent*Anyway what was I supposed to be talking about - Oh, the book!I loved it.
And of course they'll think of sex during times like that - I would want any escape I could get from the reality they were living.
Ashfall is the story of Alex, a teenage boy learning to survive on his own after the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts.
At the point in the novel where Darla joins him on his journey to find his parents, they have become emotionally dependent on each other because they’re slowly realizing just how lonely the world has become.
Overall, the story of survival and strength is a beautiful one.The BadI was so overwhelmed by the end of this novel that I couldn’t express my opinions and views into sentences.
Following 16 year old Alex who has been left alone for the weekend while his parents visit family out of state (yay) His plans include, sleeping in, playing World of Warcraft and not having to deal with his stupid sister and Mum’s constant nagging.Then the supervolcano erupts, sending a chunk of rock through the roof of his house and spewing endless ash, darkness and winter into the skies.
The evolution is so subtle you’re not even aware it’s happened.I couldn’t help but compare this book to Life As We Knew It –which is another excellent read and took me ages to recover from.
Alex Halprin, almost 16 years old, is being left home alone for the weekend as his parents and sister go visit relatives about 140 miles east of Alex’s home town in Iowa.
Alex’s town is about 900 miles east of the volcano and the devastation is catastrophic.
Alex’s taekwondo skills are most useful when dealing with some of the dangerous characters he meets up with.I also loved Darla, Alex’s travelling companion.
Alex and Darla were perfect for each other and I enjoyed how they learned to depend on each other.
On one hand I enjoyed it and it kept my attention and loved the characters.
I admired Alex and Darla for being so resourceful and not giving up (even though I wanted to smack Alex one time but I may have reacted the same way, who knows), even when they reached a certain destination.A certain incident with a certain character and Alex's actions had me seething and cheering for Alex for what he did.
I kept giving Darla hugs after that for awhile.So why the rating?
It's a good tale but after I reached the last page, I just don't feel the desire to continue.
*whinges* I thought this book was going to be less dystopian aftermathy and more ‘HOLY EFF THERE IS LITERALLY LAVA COMING AFTER US RUUUUN’.But that’s just me who watches Dante’s Peak every time it is shown on ITV2….
Alex didn’t try to be a badass or become broody/ whingey about his situation but he just got on with things, doing a fantastic job at looking after not only himself but other people around him.
As I come from a place where the only real threatening weather/natural disaster is floods, it would normally have been difficult for me to imagine what it would be like in Alex’s shoes.
This story felt more like a journey towards a new way of living in a new world rather than the beginning of the end.After a supervolcano erupts in Yellowstone National Park, Alex’s weekend of freedom away from his family turns into a struggle and journey to survive in a world now covered in ash, darkness, unpredictable weather, violence, pain, loss, hunger, and fear.
This book does not shy away from the harshness in a battle to survive, but love is a big part of this story.
You have written an end of the world as we know it story, but infused it with hope.
But, this new world that Alex is apart of is covered high with ash, bereft of food, filled with dying people, and seems to bring out the worst of human nature.
Around him, the world may be ending, but for Alex, his adventure is simply beginning… For some reason or the other, even my highest expectations of this book couldn’t match what it truly was like.
Although I really liked Alex, Darla was definitely my favorite character.
Darla and Alex come alive on the page, playing perfect complements to one another.
In the first chapter a giant piece of rock destroys fifteen-year-old Alex's house, and right away he decides to venture out into the ash and find his family.
Along the way he encounters Darla, a tenacious girl with a knack for mechanics, and together they fight to stay alive amidst the chaos caused by a supervolcano's explosion.Mike Mullin creates a convincing post-apocalyptic world in Ashfall.
:)This is the story of Alex, a typical teenager who has to grow up fast when he finds himself alone in the midst of the biggest natural disaster of his lifetime.
It really touched me how Alex decided to follow his heart and not let himself be swept away by fear.
Their relationship is about sharing the good and the bad and just being happy of every minute together, knowing that someone they love has their back and always will.
Alex is not the type of asexual teen that can kill a person but never feels anything below the belt like we see in a lot of YA.
Halfway through reading this, I felt the need to inform my husband how woefully unprepared we are for the coming apocalypse.We don't own a shotgun.I don't know how to slaughter my own meat, or cook over an open fire.And I am completely ill equipped to deal with the inevitable downfall of society.Once I accepted my inadequacy and accepted that I would most likely be one of the first casualties, I could sit back and enjoy the story of Alex's battle for survival on his journey to find his parents after the cataclysmic supervolcano and ensuing ashfall.
