https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105760.Zodiac
2.75-3 starsI decided to pick this book up after watching Zodiac which was completely enthralling, h
Now let's say you just happen to work at a famous newspaper, one of the papers to which you like to send your letters.
An artist who is capable of duplicating the "killer's" writing if you want.
Now you want everyone to know who you've killed, so you reveal all your victims in the book, suggesting that they are "possible" victims while knowing they are far more than "possible." How marvelously taunting, and how much more superior does it make you than the police?But it gets better.
We all know the Zodiac was never caught so why am I intruiged to know how it ends.
It was gripping, detailed, talked about victims and the letters.
But like halfway through it started to get dull.
We finally got a plausible suspect named but then it turned into name dropping.
And then you get like 20 pages of the codes and the ciphers and the symbols and then it just started to sound like those illuminati theories.
And then follow that up with 10 pages of names and dates of people who died who may or may not be victims of zodiac.
I suspect because people can't grasp the idea that the movie can get away with more in the name of entertainment than something sitting on the True Crime shelves can.
This is "true crime," not "fiction based on a real event." Also, the movie covers things in the author's real life, which the book isn't about to do.
Just keep that in mind before reading any non-fiction, especially True Crime.3) This is about the victims.
That the suspect was never charged should tell you immediately that the evidence isn't as strong as the author is making it out to be.
I liked how the movie gave Graysmith a bit of humanity - a family who was affected by his obsession with the case, but I think that it made other changes that I didn't like - not explaining a lot of the details and connections, and jumping huge gaps of time, and not going into the family details of the main suspect they had.
I liked the level of detail in the book and felt that there was a lot missing from the movie.
It kind of jumped around in time and going back to murders etc...
To read or not to read Zodiac, that is the question. Regardless of what some say, no one knows who the Zodiac was. No it's not Ted Cruz, sit down internet conspiracy theorists. I feel like this is bait. Ain't nobody got time for that.
He's everything campfire tales are made of, except he was real.Robert Graysmith, the San Francisco Chronicle cartoonist who was on staff at the time of the killings and who became obsessed with the case after the Zodiac letters started arriving at the paper, does a good job of narrating the who, what, and where of the crimes.
It is also true that Graysmith gives way too much detail about things that have no relevance to the case.
Graysmith's good when he sticks to the known facts and relating his more plausible ideas, but the rest of this book is iffy.
I picked this up because I enjoyed the movie version and thought I'd investigate the truth behind the Hollywoodization (that is SO a word).I found this book very interesting, despite its somewhat uneven tone. It's quite dry in places but, hey, it's journalism not fiction, so I'm not expecting it to be Dickens.Ultimately, though, due to the fact that the Zodiac killer was never caught, it kind of peters out at the end, leaving one feeling rather unsatisfied. Still, I'm glad I read it.
The writing style is a bit too dry for my taste, but the subject is so fascinating! Enjoyed this book very much, loved how detailed and informative it was.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
Graysmith lays out the known facts, reproduces the full text of the Zodiac letters for the first time, and conducts his own investigations of the major suspects.Man. I’d forgotten, but this is a hell of a story.
OMG!) And when I say something is outlandishly fictional in the context of Zodiac, I mean it’s pretty freaking unbelievable.It’s a great book, though, and Graysmith is right to be proud of this first and most thorough collection of the facts (not to mention his pretty impressive personal work, up to and including cracking one of the Zodiac’s nastier ciphers).
I gave Zodiac four stars instead of five because the material could be dry at times, and a more skilled writer may have been able to do a better job at making those parts sparkle and shine like the rest of the text.
I definitely think that this would be a great book for any true crime buff or for those who are interested in the great unsolved cases of our day and age.
A definite must-read for true crime fans and a good primer for those looking to get into the genre!
Be careful if you read this book. It has a very high potential to get you addicted to the case and try to figure out who the Zode is.
Oh, so it is a liiiiitle weird that they both (A.L.A. and Zodiac) used the same intentional (?) misspellings (e.g. Christ-mass) and that Allen liked code books, but meh, it's just not enough to justify ruining a dude's life so bad that he ends up sticking sale tags on staple guns at some Ace Hardware forever.
It got to the point where I couldn't even read my journals a year later (probably for the best, those things are embarrassing after two days) because I had no idea how I even came up with all those code words and symbols and shit, let alone what they meant.The movie that was built from this book is one of my top five-ish crime dramas, though.
I only want to say that despite the cynicism I've gotten from friends, or the criticisms I read of this one, it is a great book that is uniquely interesting and thrilling and sparked great conversation around the board.
The book does a very good job at avoiding monotony by presenting the details in an interesting and alluring manner that is both entertaining as well as interactive all at once.Graysmith conducts interviews with the police and surviving victims of the Zodiac and supplements their testimonials with incredible research.
If the police were fearful of this guy and had no idea who he was, then I could barely fathom just how petrified the citizens of San Fransisco had to be.Included in the book are the letters and cryptograms that the Zodiac sent to the newspapers to taunt investigators and brag about his crimes, some of which were being reproduced for the first time in print (obviously not a big deal now with the advent of the internet, but at the time of its publication, this was monumental).
Movie, Director's cut was great......I saw it first....but the book goes into a lot more details about the cryptic messages...and the process of decoding...shows them all.....POE would have been proud......and goes into a lot more details of the thinking of the criminal mind,and the thinking of the investigator......I thought it was interesting that Armistead Maupin got involved, being a columnist for the Chronicle......I don't remember that detail in the film, or maybe I missed it......Anyway the read was, engaging, fascinating on how one's mind works from both sides.....I really recommend this one.
The crimes themselves are fascinating. I cannot say the same for this book. Perhaps it’s because I read it on the heels of an exquisitely written true-crime story.
A fascinating account of a real-life murders. You seem to know something and then it turns out that the mystery continues.
What i really like about this book was how it was told and how it was layed out.Mr. Graysmith was a Newspaper cartoonist who later became involved in the Zodiac case.
Not by his volition but, by the Zodiacs.He lays out the facts.
Yes, he was directly later involved in the case but, he does not "slant" the view of what the facts begin to lay out and where the evidance leads to.In the end.
However, when you read the book and he lays out all the facts.
Read the book 1st.
I don't think you can watch the film adaptation and remain unmoved by Graysmith's story and his obsessive quest to uncover the identity of the Zodiac killer.
There was no question that I had to read his book.
Graysmith was a cartoonist by occupation, not a journalist, and it shows.
He makes the number one blunder of any amateur writer of either fiction or non-fiction -- he tries to include every last detail.
Graysmith's obsession with the Zodiac killer means every minutiae of the case is deemed critical.
As a reader, you're completely snowballed by facts and circumstances.
Watch the movie; it's quite excellent.
Between 1999 and 2004, most of these were finally captured, tried and convicted for a 1975 murder committed during a bank robbery in the town of Carmichael.I don’t know how relevant that is, possibly not in the slightest, but the Zodiac phenomenon that snaked through the decade seemed of a piece with much else that was going on, particularly in the Bay Area.
But hey, what a cool thing to put on one's resume.I’m not old enough to have any memory of the crimes, but in the late ‘70s I would occasionally read about a new Zodiac rumor, most often in Herb Caen’s column in the Chronicle.
4.5 stars. Fantastic true crime story!
“This is the Zodiac speaking”Seriously one of the greatest true-crime books ever written.
I’ve read Zodiac countless times now and I’m always so impressed with just what a fantastic book it is.
True-crime authors already have a strike against them when they’re writing about a crime that’s unsolved, trying to tell a story that’s cohesive and interesting when said story is still unfinished would be a major task, one that few authors are able to do well, but Robert Graysmith has done a marvellous job with Zodiac.There are plenty of books out there about The Zodiac Killer, most of which are actually pretty good, however, the very best is this one.
He even masturbated at my porch, sometimes, as he was seeing me study late at night, through my window shutters.
I know that my persecutor was nothing next to Zodiac, but at that time I was fearing that he would take some sort of revenge on me for being arrested or spanked.
(In fact, I still do.) When I was reading this book late at night (Because I couldn't leave it!
It's so addictive!) I came back to being troubled by every single little noise.
(I know, a little pathetic.)That's how I discovered True Crime is much more disturbing than plain horror books like Stephen King's.
I have read this book years ago.Trying to add some books on Shelfari I discovered I had never registered this book on BC.From Library JournalFrom 1968 to the early 1970s, the self-styled "Zodiac" killer made headlines in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Graysmith, a San Francisco Chronicle staff member, was obsessed with the case from the beginning and he has continued to investigate it as an amateur sleuth.
Except for "Zodiac" himself, the author now knows more about the case than anyone.
I remember I was fascinated but it sucks we still don't know who did it.
Første halvparten av boka er veldig bra og spennende, og Graysmiths ganske frie diktning påvirker ikke historien noe særlig.
Siste halvdel av boka er for det meste full av Graysmiths ganske utsvevende teorier, mye møl om månefaser og astrologi.
Siste halvdel av boka er egentlig bare en tour de force av Graysmiths intense interesse i å finne ut hvem Zodiac var, av og til spennende, men ikke så veldig hjelpsomt for å prøve å finne ut av noen svar selv.
Men alt i alt, en av verdens mest spennende saker og la oss alle please krysse fingrene for at det blir noen DNAmatcher snart sånn at jeg får sove om natta.
This was a pretty wonderful read to follow up I'll Be Gone in the Dark with. Tonally very similar, but with the aching mystery entirely intact. Graysmith presents more about Arthur Leigh Allen than I knew, and I can't help but favor him still.
I don't normally do a review after finishing books but I thought this was a fantastic read. I would highly recommend to anyone interested in the subject matter.
Compelling, although the equinox stuff bored the living shite out of me and it stank of clutching at straws.
