https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77771.Three_Plays
I loved Thornton Wilder's The Long Christmas Dinner; especially the way he managed to use the essential unreality of the stage to telescope time so that generations pass before our eyes, partaking essentially of the same Christmas dinner.
Wilder uses the same technique of breaking up the illusion of verisimilitude that the proscenium stage provides, which essentially makes the viewers into voyeurs peeping into someone else's reality through the "fourth wall": and this is his intention.
He does this through minimal and stylistic stage settings, stylised performances, shifts in time (back and forth) and the direct interaction of the characters with the audience.
original readings:The Matchmaker & The Skin of Our Teeth May, 1982 and January 2018I was on a kick looking for monologues in his short plays and got into reading the longer ones as well.Our Town June, 1982, June, 2015(I was Emily Webb. I can still remember a hell of a lot of those lines)
One major thing that is pointed out in this play is that people walk through life without ever really seeing anything, and this is shown on many an occasion, not really being noticed until it is too late to do anything about.
People that are alive do not have the worries that life will be short because they are still living it.
And when that person has not lived a full enough life, they will have no one to blame but themselves for not appreciating it when they had it.
Review for Our TownRead/posted 11/29/185 out of 5 starsThere's not one idea in this play I haven't thought hundreds upon hundreds of times.
Problem was, they always remained brain thoughts, never quite reaching my soul.
Thornton Wilder put them in soul language for me.
Now I understand my thoughts, because I understand that they can't be understood.A friend who recommended Our Town told me: "It's a classic." She's right.
And I know why it's a classic to me.
Now in the presence of this play or novel or poem (or picture or piece of music) I know that I know it.'"
Our Town - 5 StarsSkin of Our Teeth - 5 Stars Matchmaker - 3 Stars
I'd like to say that Thornton Wilder as a playwright didn't interest me very much although i liked "our town" very much. It's one of the cases of "the author of one work", The skin of our teeth was very bad, i didn't like It at all, and the matchmaker was an ordinary farce. As a novelist i did't read any of his well known novels yet.Here's my reviews about each play
I seldom read plays and "Our Town" is a probably why.
Despite the simplicity of its staging, it was altogether too difficult to follow without a stage or movie equivalent, even after a second reading decades later.
But as extraordinary as the movie was, I needed the play to make it even better.
Thornton Wilder's introduction to his writing life was equally extraordinary, although he says "I never did anything original, but I always enjoyed myself." At least one of these other plays became a renowned movie.

I really enjoyed and found relevence and quality writing in the first two plays, but the third "The Matchmaker" which eventually became the musical "Hello Dolly" was not very interesting. It was a commercial play written to make money, whereas his other plays were written with certain amounts of integrity and artistic craftmanship (along with having something to say.) Reading them all together was acctually a bit confusing. I would like to read his novels to get a better grasp on him as a writer. Over all not even close to my favorite playwrite.
For book club, we are only discussing one of Wilder's plays - The Skin of Our Teeth, which is the strangest of the bunch.
I had seen a high school production of Our Town before and now want to see Hello, Dolly!
The plays might not seem as strange when viewed as opposed to read.
Without the brief analysis of The Skin of Our Teeth, I would've been utterly baffled.
There will be plenty to discuss.From a reading perspective, The Matchmaker was easiest and in minute ways reminded me of Oscar Wilde, but probably most for its being a farce.Overall, strange but award-winning.
Three plays by Thornton Wilder.Our Town ★★★★A play about life in a small town. Told in three acts - daily life, marriage, and death. Simple, beautiful, and tragic.The Skin of Our Teeth ★★★The story of a family that has been around for thousands of years. They've survived, by the skin of their teeth, multiple end of world scenarios - ice, flood, and war. A unique play that relies on breaking the fourth wall. Absurd and witty.The Matchmaker ★★★A wealthy merchant hires a matchmaker to find him a wife. A delightful and humorous play.
"Spoiler"In the play “our town” , by Thornton Wilder, he highlights living and death. In act one the play begins with the birth of twins. The audience is introduced to main characters in act one and they show us how they grew up. In act two they show us how the two main characters love each other. The audience is introduced with a long lasting relationship. In act 3 one of the main character dies due to natural causes. This shows that life can be taken from you, without you enjoying it.
I've always loved Our Town--yup, cried again. My first time for The Skin of Our Teeth--even weirder than Our Town, an interesting premise, and a few eerily current sounding quotes about immigrants and foreigners. I've seen Hello Dolly, but this was my first time reading The Matchmaker. Stick with the musical--it makes more sense.
I am a big fan of this dude. Our Town, read it before but really got it more as a young adult, really poignant although slow moving until the end. What the actual FUCK was Skin of Our Teeth, that shit was weird and I could not get into it, I'm sorry. It took me like 40 pages of The Matchmaker to realize it was Hello, Dolly but omg what a banger of a play.
I actually only read "The Matchmaker" which Goodreads does not list as a separate book. It was fun to read the original story and it's evolution.
'Our Town' is THE most BEAUTIFUL play that has ever existed. Damn.
3 3/4 stars
Just not work that kept my attention.

It’s been on my shelf for decades, and finally it was time to take a look and see what it was like.Our Town was the play I was assigned to read, I believe, in middle school (probably ninth grade, though I might have read it for school in two separate years).
I would have preferred the screenplay to any Frank Capra film, which would have contained the same message, and probably a little more social commentary.In all, I guess I have a bit more of a sense of Thornton Wilder from having read this, but unless he put out more plays along the lines of “The Skin of Our Teeth,” I probably won’t look for more by him.
I read The Skin of Our Teeth first prior to seeing it performed at The Theatre For A New Audience's production at the Polonsky Shakespeare Center in Brooklyn.
I have never read Thornton Wilder before and this is a strange play as each of it's three acts appears to be set in different time periods that manage to weave the ice age, Noah's Ark, Cain & Abel, etc.
I was disappointed by Our Town and would only give it 3 stars but really liked The Matchmaker which I would enjoy seeing performed live some day.
I already have this book down as "read" long ago.
That was a LONG time ago.
Anyway..."Our Town" - Read this last night.
A very Buddhist message.Moving on to "The Skin of Our Teeth".
Pretty funny so far.Now done with "Skin..." and in the middle of a more conventionally amusing farce - "The Matchmaker".
After repeated failure the "people" are getting discouraged and crazy(George).
Both "Skin" and :Our Town" won Pulitzer Prizes."The Matchmaker" - OK so far...
Hard to imagine the very weird Carol Channing in the role of Dolly Levi, though.
My score on this is averaged from all three plays within the collection:"Our Town" *****I came in with certain expectations, since my only prior exposure came via the many allusions to Wilder's most famous play.
Wilder's dialogue is dense, somewhat stylized, yet believable.
But I still enjoyed "The Skin of Our Teeth" and would certainly recommend it to those who are fond of meta-fiction."The Matchmaker" ***My least favorite of the plays in this collection, lacking much of the depth and spark of the previous two.
As with the previous two, Wilder's dialogue is dense and often fun to read.
Our Town surprised me.
I went into it, thinking that it was going to be a cliche warbling about Americana lost; I've heard rumors about the play that have not been kind.
But the sadness and longing in Act III is touching and brings much needed depth to the previous scenes.I'm intrigued by Skin of Our Teeth, but I feel like there's too much going on.
I like the writing, but staging this show must be hell.The Matchmaker is the best in the collection.
Normally, four act plays spell doom for me, but it flies by so quickly you hardly notice.
This is one of those books that you can't escape if you take any kind of course involving 20th century theatre.
No problem, though, these are three great & classic plays.
Better yet, they're still so popular that you stand a good chance of being able to see a production.
"Our Town" is the most frequently performed, but unfortunately, a lot of the complexities evade all but the most professional productions.
"Skin of Our Teeth", another great play.
"The Matchmaker" is a very funny play with a story you may recognize from elsewhere: it's the basis for "Hello Dolly!" They make for good reading.
Each of these three plays by Thornton Wilder is humorous, poignant, and - most importantly of all, I believe - deeply perceptive, whilst retaining a simple, fast-paced narrative style and dealing a sharp slap to the concept of the fourth wall. I only wish that I could see them performed on stage. My personal favourite is Our Town, which begins as a gentle satire on life in a quintessential small American town at the turn of century and develops into a rather philosophical commentary on our ability to appreciate life. A pleasure to read.
My favorite Wilder's play is , of course, "Our Town." About two years ago I saw Dadiv Cromer's production of "Our Town" in Barrow Lane Theater, NYC. The book, if paired with performance, stays in your mind forever.The "Skin of Out Teeth" is masterfully told story of mankind, highlighting the best and the worse of people. No matter what times we live in- modern or pre-historic, humans remain unchangeable.As for "Matchmaker", the quotes about marriages are irresistible. As, for example: marriage is a bribe to make a housekeeper think she's a householder. Oh, this's one is really good!
Three plays that couldn't be more different. Despite being a chestnut of Americana, Our Town is a far cannier piece than most suspect. I was especially interested in/impressed by The Skin of Our Teeth, haveing recently been alerted to the influence of Finnegans Wake on Wilder. In any event, a very strange post-modern piece of theater that I'd love to see some day. The Matchmaker (source for Hello, Dolly) is a bauble, that I can imagine being funny (or not) depending on cast & direction.A fascinating author-- I need to look into more of his fiction.
Good. American. Interesting. I picked this up to revisit "Our Town" which I loved years ago (and still do). But the other two plays were particularly intriguing on this read-through. Both quite different, and neither what I expected. Comparing the three gave me a much fuller sense of Thornton Wilder's aesthetics as a playwright and of his motivations as a writer in general. And plays are a nice break from novels. This was time well spent.
The play Our Town is a play about a small town in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire and the ordinary people who lived there. The most important point of the play is that we miss how important everyday life is and how we should relish each and every day: each and every moment. Pg 110: Quote from Emily: "Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it? every, every minute?"The Matchmaker is the basis for "Hello Dolly" one of my favorite musicals with Barbara Streisand.
