https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21025.The_Gift_of_Therapy
Not only that, but he recommends that therapists should allow space between clients to digest and record and not fill every available therapeutic minute chasing another $!
If therapists can't connect with clients how the hell is therapy supposed to work?
Be where the client is.
I think that's the main message of the book with, of course, wonderful examples of how he was with his clients.
Loved the inclusion of the Harry Stack Sullivan quote describing therapy as "a discussion of two people, one of them more anxious than the other." Note that it is not necessarily the client who is the anxious party!!
A fabulous book I would recommend to any aspiring or current therapist.
Irvin Yalom writes concise and easy-to-read chapters that span several pertinent psychological topics, such as how to exude empathy and when to self-disclose.
His advice to focus on the present and to engage with clients in a way that transcends typical boundaries shows his expertise and insight to the field of therapy, and his use of case studies keeps The Gift of Therapy an inviting and intriguing read.Once again, recommended to anyone interested in therapy at all.
One of those books that excites me for my future career.

نه فقط برای بیمار و درمانگر؛ که برای یه خواننده معمولی که میخواد بتونه بهتر خودش رو کاوش کنه، عکس العمل ها رو ببینه و درک کنه و ارتباط بهتری رو بسازه.کتاب تقریبا تمامِ مباحثی که یه درمانگر احتیاج داره رو داخل خودش جای داده، بعضی مباحث کوتاه و در حد یک صفحه هستن اما با مطرح شدن شون ذهن رو درگیر میکنن و همین میتونه کافی باشه.طرز بیان این کتاب خیلی ساده س و خواننده حتی اگه درمانگر نباشه به زیبایی میتونه خودش رو مخاطب حرفای نویسنده ببینه و تطبیق بده و از نکات مفید و کاربردی ش استفاده کنه.پنجره جوهری یک شخصیت سنج موثق است که برای آموزش رهبران گروه و‌ اعضای گروه برای خودفاش سازی و بازخورد به کار می رود.[image error]مربع ۱ (شناخته شده برای خود و دیگران) خود عمومی است.مربع ۲ (ناشناخته برای خود و شناخته شده برای دیگران) خود ناپیداست.مربع ۳ (شناخته شده برای خود و ناشناخته برای دیگران) خود مخفی است.مربع ۴ (ناشناخته برای خود و دیگران) خود ناخودآگاه است.مربع ها از لحاظ اندازه در افراد مختلف متفاوت است: در برخی افراد بزرگ تر است و بعضی کوچک تر.
My fourth Yalom book, this text was the perfect supplement to my Masters course in Psychology (actually sometimes the uni course felt like a supplement to the book!).
In an age of “don’t touch your clients” and “don’t let your clients into your life”, comes such advice as “Let your patients matter to you”, “Be transparent” and “Make home visits”.
While I wouldn’t agree with everything in this book, it is nonetheless a much-needed antidote to the rigid and restrictive formal training young therapists today receive.
There is so much wisdom in this book, formulated as a very readable guide for the young therapist, with fascinating case examples – the whole package.
I have the impression that many books on therapy in the self-help section are full of watered-down insight and oft-repeated platitudes,like clever pats on the back repackaged a thousand times before---but this book is nothing like that.
On that note, his clients are characters but they are also normal enough to normalize what receiving therapy may be like---so if you are considering it for yourself this is a good way to test the waters of your pre-contemplation.
God, I love this book.
It's 3 a.m. and I have 5 patients tomorrow, so I need to sleep instead of write right now.
But I really really love this book.
So much of it resonates with my beliefs about what therapy should be, which too often is not what we're taught or how many of us behave.
In many ways reading it was an experience of validation for the way I work and my complex feelings about all of it.
I'm usually a library reader, but I'm glad I bought this one, because I'll be reading it again and again.
همزمان اشتیاق فراوان به درمانگر شدن پیدا کرده، و از درمانگری ترسیدم.بعضی فصلها عالی بودند. جز قسمتهایی که به وجدم میآوردند، فصول ۳۹ و ۴۶ هم برای کمک به دو سه نفر از کسانی که با هم صحبت میکنیم خیلی کارآمد به نظر رسیدند. البته وقتی میخوانیشان میبینی انگار نکتههای کلی و خیلی بدیهی هستند، ولی خوب، معمّا چو حل گشت آسان شود؛ معلوم نیست اگر دربارهشان نخوانده بودم هیچوقت حواسم بهشان جلب میشد یا نه.
همزمان اشتیاق فراوان به درمانگر شدن پیدا کرده، و از درمانگری ترسیدم.بعضی فصل‌ها عالی بودند. جز قسمت‌هایی که به وجدم می‌آوردند، فصول ۳۹ و ۴۶ هم برای کمک به دو سه نفر از کسانی که با هم صحبت می‌کنیم خیلی کارآمد به نظر رسیدند. البته وقتی می‌خوانی‌شان می‌بینی انگار نکته‌های کلی و خیلی بدیهی هستند، ولی خوب، معمّا چو حل گشت آسان شود؛ معلوم نیست اگر درباره‌شان نخوانده‌ بودم هیچ‌وقت حواسم بهشان جلب می‌شد یا نه.
This was an exciting and wholly overwhelming time as season of school was ending and the season of getting a job and actually "doing the damn thing" was starting.
I felt like I had a precious handful things I that I knew and a bathtub full of knowing of what I don't know.
I had (and still sort of have) an urgency to get more, know more and "cram" in anything to quiet the panic of "doing the damn thing" with so much left that I didn't know.
This book was a good read during that time.
یالوم نکاتی ریز از درمانگری را در این کتاب با روانشناسات در میان میگذارد که قابل توجهاند، با این حال نحوه ارائه این اصول و نوع چارچوببندیاش گاه پراکنده به نظر میرسید و گاه تیتروار رها میشد.------------------- بخشهای ماندگار کتاب:غمانگیز است که مدتی طولانی با دیگران باشی و با این حال، اجازه ندهی آنها آنقدر برایت اهمیت پیدا کنند که بر تو تاثیر بگذارند و تغییرت دهند....گرچه مادیت مرگ، نابودمان میسازد، اندیشهی مرگ، نجاتمان میدهد.
یالوم نکاتی ریز از درمانگری را در این کتاب با روانشناسات در میان می‌گذارد که قابل توجه‌اند، با این حال نحوه ارائه این اصول و نوع چارچوب‌بندی‌اش گاه پراکنده به نظر می‌رسید و گاه تیتروار رها می‌شد.------------------- بخش‌های ماندگار کتاب:غم‌انگیز است که مدتی طولانی با دیگران باشی و با این حال، اجازه ندهی آن‌ها آن‌قدر برایت اهمیت پیدا کنند که بر تو تاثیر بگذارند و تغییرت دهند....گرچه مادیت مرگ، نابودمان می‌سازد، اندیشه‌ی مرگ، نجاتمان می‌دهد.
I have been trained in CBT, which means two things: (1) therapeutic alliance and collaborative work, and (2) skills training, such as thought record, behavioural experiments, exposures, cognitive reconstructing.
I do not fully agree with this approach and sometime I feel that the therapeutic relationship, or love as I would label it, is far more important than skills training.
When I heard others telling me that I don’t have enough skills to deal with some issues, I felt ridiculed—no one can be perfectly trained, but with love and faith, one can learn and even develop all the skills that are needed to help the client.
A professor recommended How Can I Help? to budding social workers, and I'm recommending The Gift of Therapy. It's quite possible that no one in the world can really understand why we do what we do except for others in the profession, and this "open letter" is an excellent resource to remind us to keep on keeping on with a sense of humor and open hearts and minds.I give it two very solid thumbs up.
از بین آثار یالوم که تا کنون خوانده ام (و نیچه گریست، مامان و معنای زندگی و کتاب اخیر؛ موهبت رواندرمانگری) این کتاب تخصصی تر و خطاب به رواندرمانگران با تجاربی بوده اما همچنان برای خواننده ی عمومی چون من گیرا بود. گیرایی آثار یالوم، علاوه بر هنر ساده نوشتن موضوعات تخصصی، بر درگیر کردن ذهن خواننده اثر می گذارد و دریچه هایی نو در ذهن می گشاید و من این را غنیمت می شمارم.
I was primarily acquainted with Irvin Yalom: "the group psychotherapy guru." However, he is equally strong as an individual psychodynamic psychotherapist and well-known author of several other books on the therapy process, most notable "Love's Executioner." This book is a slim volume he has written late in his career to advise primarily new therapists, drawing from 45 years of experience.
I was particularly impressed with chapters which emphasize therapist's use of self.
I would recommend the book to therapists early in their work or "seasoned" professionals.
However, as with all non fiction books I started loosing focus by the end of it.
Like focusing on your relationship with the client will ultimately highlight why they are having difficulties in their outside relationships.
Ultimately, this book finally drove home what it's like to be a therapist and I don't think I like it so much anymore.I've always entertained ideas of going into therapy; this book has chased them all away.
I don't have tolerance and I don't think I really care about people anymore.
So many relevant insights! Yalom's words about the therapeutic process perfectly describes my sentiment about the privilege of walking with clients in their journey of change. "Sometimes I feel like a guide escorting patients through the rooms of their own house. What a treat it is to watch them open doors to rooms never before entered, discover new wings of their house containing parts in exile- wise, beautiful, and creative pieces of identity."
This book took me a while to read because it's 85 different snippets of advice. I would read a chapter or two a day and then sit it down. The flow was alright, as Yalom grouped these by similar topics. A lot of these tidbits were very common sense. I wonder if it might have done better had it been written in an actual letter format.
There are a lot of points in this book that really resonate with what I have felt has helped me as a patient to have a great experience in therapy.
That being said, I don't think I would have finished this book if not for it having been assigned to me for schoolwork.
Yalom's examples are reminiscent of those you would find in a self-help workbook, and his desire to guide therapists with an oddly end-all and preachy tone irks me.Good book, perhaps better for someone who is much more interested in the traditional model of psychotherapy.
Bu kitapla ilgili bir blog yazısı girmem çok büyük ihtimalle. Bağışlanan Terapi, aslında Yalom'un yeni nesil terapistler için yaptığı bir dizi önerinden ibaret. Ben de bir aday terapist/psikolojik danışman olarak keyif alarak okudum. Ama bunu hep söylerim, Varoluşçu Terapi, bana seanslarda kullanılacak bir kuramdan çok, benimsenmesi gereken bir hayat tarzı gibi geliyor :D Yine de hoşuma giden çok yer oldu, 20'den fazla post-it kullanmışım :D Herkese hitap eden bir kitap olduğunu düşünmüyorum, çünkü genelde seanslarda neler yapılabileceğinden bahsediyor. Hayatınız boyunca bir psikoterapi/psikolojik danışma seansı yürütmeyecekseniz çoğu şey size bir anlam ifade etmez.
I'm not a therapist but this book was full of so much wisdom about communicating with others that a lot the material is applicable to both my personal life and in my work as a teacher. There are so many useful tips here, and so this book merits rereads—and I will make sure to dip back in to fish out some morsel of wisdom from time to time.
If Yalom's goal here was to make new therapists feel better about not being perfect, I think he more or less got it. I took away a star because he has a thing for dream interpretation and because there were a few chapters I didn't connect to. Otherwise, really helpful!
Несмотря на то, что книга «Дар Психотерапии» предназначена преимущественно молодым практикантам и будущим психотерапевтам, каждый может узнать много нового и интересного для себя. Например особенно захватывающим было читать про интерпретацию снов, про соответствующие методы коммуникации с людьми имеющими определённые комплексы или слабости. В книге собрано множество цитат известных философов и мыслителей.
As Dr. Yalom explains, from the existential perspective, there are four ultimate concerns that a patient confronts with the givens of existence; viz., meaning in life, freedom, isolation, and death.
Here is an answer: Death is inevitable!So now the question turns towards: How do you live a fulfilling and meaningful life while constantly being aware of death?Here is where that oft misunderstood gentleman Heidegger comes in…In our existence, we operate from two aspects: First, there is the aspect of “everydayness”.
This is what Heidegger and Yalom were both trying to explain.Although I have spent considerable time expounding upon the concern of death, there is also some captivating insight on the other concerns of life meaning and freedom.
It doesn't.Spare yourself a few bucks by not buying this book filled with vignettes that demonstrate what is therapeutically baneful, groundless normative musings and unnecessary quotes from different books, plays, etc.
every other page.Lastly, Irvin is obviously a man who cannot take good care of himself and is unable to detach his ego from the therapeutic process, rationalizing this as being true to himself and genuine and so forth.
This leads to patients becoming dependent on him and his acceptance and approval of them, in particular.
*The critical "throw-ins" of therapy* In the introduction of his _Existential Psychotherapy_ text, Yalom recounts how in a cooking class he discovered that it was the instructor's "surreptitious throw-ins (that) made all the difference." He then makes the parallel that the "critical ingredients" of effective psychotherapy are the therapist's intuitive "throw-ins" that exist outside of formal training and "are hard to describe, even harder to define."Fortunately, in _The Gift of Therapy_, Yalom has been able to eloquently describe and clearly define many of his "critical ingredients" which have ultimately made all of difference in his work.
The 85 bite-sized essays comprising this book convey the crucial "throw-ins" that optimize the effectiveness of therapy, including the here-and-now therapist-client relationship, the therapist's use of self, an ongoing exploration of the givens of existence, and the use of dreams in therapy.
It should not however, be used as professional for several reasons: The author's psychoanalytically oriented methods are antiquated, and in a world with more and more evidence-based treatments for mental illness, such comparatively unproven, time-consuming methodologies are increasingly irrelevant until proven otherwise.
But more deeply troubling is the description of the "intimate" nature of his relationships with patients.
Although the physician/patient relationship is an important therapeutic tool, there is a massive power differential which cannot be understated, that makes patients, especially psychiatric patients, vulnerable to emotional manipulation and potentially exploitation, so the author's emphasis on forming a deep, personally invested emotional connection with patients is both unprofessional and ethically questionable.
When I started this book I was working on my master's and absolute loved the book and all the helpful advice that is given by Yalom.
It took me a while to finish it and now I'm working in the field and I'm a little more cynical of the book.
Most beginner counselors are not working in a private practice and their clients are facing real problems like where to get their next meal or how not to lose their children.
Some of the examples in the book were almost laugable.
For example, one client is stressed about which woman to take on his Aruba vacation.
This is my all time favorite of Irvin Yalom's books.
Yalom is probably best known for his Existential Psychotherapy and The Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy texts, which are viewed as classics for counseling theory/practice courses.
His recent (2002) publication, The Gift of Therapy, is my favorite because he--in a frank, very readable, and knowledgeable way--shares insights about the dynamics of therapeutic change that he has acquired from 45+ years of clinical practice.
This book is at the top of my list of any other publications I've read on psychotherapy.
I learned a lot with this first read...so much so that I plan to reread it (maybe several times!)
While this book came recommended from a professor I deeply respect, I have to admit it didn't do a whole lot for me.
While some of what Yalom says I really appreciate - particularly in regards to working in the here and now with clients - I found a lot of it a little too fluffy for my liking.
Maybe I'll pick this up down the road and find more value in it but for now I feel like I need something more concrete.
Of course I will be deeply human with my clients, how else could I be?
یالوم در ایران بیشتر با رمان وقتی نیچه گریست شناخته شده ولی در حقیقت یکی از بزرگترین رواندرمانگر های تاریخه که در توسعه درمان به سبک وجودگرایی بسیار موثر بوده و با سخاوت مثال زدنی تجربه های ناب و موشکافانه ی کاوش های درمانی و تجربیاتش رو در قالب 83 فصل چند صفحه ای به درمانگران و مخاطبان آینده انتقال داده.
چیزی که زیاد میبینیم در جامعه.در ضمن کتاب طوری نوشته شده که از کلمات تخصصی زیادی استفاده نشده و مخاطبخارج از حیطه روان هم میتونه ازش لذت ببره
البته فکر میکنم درست نباشه من نظر بدم راجع به این کتاب؛ چون من روان درمانگر نیستم و با دید حرفهای ای
البته فکر میکنم درست نباشه من نظر بدم راجع به این کتاب؛ چون من روان درمانگر نیستم و با دید حرفه‌ای ا
