https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166912.The_Big_Clock
As Fearing’s main character George Stroud says about the clock: “It would be easier and simpler to get squashed, stripping its gears than to be crushed helping it along.”One of my all-time favorites, Kenneth Fearing’s classic noir/thriller published in 1946 is not only a caustic commentary on American business but a story holding the reader in suspense with a keen desire to keep turning the pages to find out what happens next right up to the last sentence.
This is the kind of book the Coen brothers would love to film, but probably won't, since a fine movie -- perfectly cast w/ Milland, Laughton, Elsa Lancaster -- has already been made.
(The story/movie must be Holy Ground for them.) But the Big Clock has the kind of blackness that the Coen brothers excel at it (The Man Who Wasn't There, Blood Simple).
I don't want to reveal much about the book, other than it takes place in the publishing world, has a brutal murder, and a painting (complete with a mad artist).
For some reason I kept thinking of Humbert Humbert -- even though they're two completely different characters.
A powerful noir novel with all the makings of a classic, The Big Clock is a disturbing yet captivating story of murder, mayhem and the man caught up in it all.
Due to it's awesome concept, I had great expectations for this short novel.
The plot is tailor-made for a great noir.
After George Shroud, a crime magazine editor, has a night-long fling with the bosses girlfriend, she ends up with her skull bashed in.
His boss is determined to find the man she was with that night and gives the assignment to the very man he's searching for, George himself.
An instance where the awesome movie (one of my favorite film noirs) is better than the book.
And when the hour strikes, on the big clock, that is indeed the hour, the day, the correct time.
It is as deaf as it is blind."The cog springs forward, one tick, one second at a time; the wheel progresses, inch by inch, foot by foot, yard by yard, mile by mile whether you like it or not.
The difference in this is that the reader knows the obvious direction and plot while the characters involved do not.
Told from a first-person perspective, by a menagerie of characters, 'The Big Clock' goes forward in that clock-wise motion; composed of that unit time and doesn't disappoint.
In this kind of noir, 'circumstances' are the stars, and their enablers get all the best lines, whether sarcastic bellhop or secretarial pool wisecracker.Author Fearing seems to have led one of those grotesque noirish lives himself, a bit like David Goodis, ending up writing shady pulp and outright pornography to float a meager existence defined by the bottle.
)Balancing the slight downside of character depth is the rotating points-of-view treatment by the author, multiple voices that tell the story.
A black pudding, made from the crushed up dreams and bloody scraps of all the other characters that have come before.
It took me about 40 or 50 pages to warm up to Kenneth Fearing's suspense classic The Big Clock, which is a fair amount of time considering the edition I read was less than 150 pages.It's written in a breezy, faux-sophisticated style that really rubbed me the wrong way, but once the main conceit of the novel kicks in, it's a hard book to put down.
In brief, a man named George Stroud, who works for an enormous publishing syndicate, cheats on his wife for the umpteenth time ...
Kenneth Fearing’s The Big Clock is an atypical noir that puts us square inside of the big corporation, in this case Janeth Enterprises, run by the big man, Earl Janeth.
One is that George himself could be implicated in the murder, so he is trying to save his own skin.
In another sense, the “big clock” comes to symbolize not only the essence of time against the corporate grind, but the individual being pulled in into an escapable, fateful path that comes in the way of inevitable mortality.
i have admired the john farrow film adaptation of this book for a long time, and i have to say it probably clouded my enjoyment of the novel though i love the conceit of george stroud's dilemma his story, above all.
the big clock is an extended metaphor throughout the novel, of business and society controlling and overwhelming independent spirit which is reduced to a reality in the film: there actually *is* a big clock, and instead of ruminating on the big clock as it hustles people along, attention is paid to time and time pieces throughout: the murder weapon in the book for example, is not as it is in the film, a sundial but rather a brandy decanter close at hand.
Kenneth Fearing's novel was one of them and is a reminder why still my favourite genre of books is crime.
Fearing creates several wonderfully clever situations, but to relate any one of them would spoil enjoyment for a potential reader.
Fearing takes almost a third of the relatively short novel to the reader a feeling of the time, and the lives of the characters, the most significant of which narrate the story chapter by chapter.
It is at this stage when the novel becomes something special, constructing some situations as clever as anything I have written in the world of crime.
The moving impulse simply arrived, and we, on the face that the giant clock turned to the public, merely registered the correct hour of the standard time.But being the measure by which so many lives were shaped and guided gave us, sometimes, strange delusions."The artist (Louise Patterson) whose work George collects, when she steps onstage, is a marvelous sketch of a true Bohemian:"...
Miss Patterson, I didn't write that article in Newsways.""Oh, you didn't?""No.""Well, I thought it was a perfectly wonderful story." It came to me that I'd said the wrong thing again, and I simply howled.
Sometimes, it is possible for an excellent novel to be overshadowed by an excellent film based on it.
Kenneth Fearing's The Big Clock is probably better known as the original source for John Farrow's film of the same name, with Ray Milland and Charles Laughton.
In many ways, the film was slightly better, though it could not hope to replicate the novel's multiple narrators: The film is entirely from the character of George Stroud, played by the underrated Milland.
Fearing's experimental use of seven different narrators would not have been my bet to work out as well as it did.
There are mysteries that don't involve murders (a number of Sherlock Holmes stories come to mind), that don't feature detectives as protagonists (like most of Jim Thompson's novels), and that don't even culminate in the solving of a crime (for example, Andrea Camilleri's The Shape of Water.) So if a novel can be a mystery without a corpse, a detective, or a criminal brought to justice, what exactly defines the genre?If I had to take a stab at some kind of definition, I'd suggest that maybe two kinds of things characterize mystery novels.
The Big Clock is a book where the concept was better than the execution.
Sounds like a very good book - perfectly dark and oozing that noir atmosphere I love being enveloped in, and in a way it is a good book but unfortunately there's a lot of filler content which detracts from the pacing - a real let down considering the page count it relatively low (144 pages).There's a distinct cat and mouse feel to The Big Clock as the world closes in on George as he tries to maintain his innocence while keeping his affair secret.
"Clock" is a better-than-average noiry kind of novel.
Somewhat by-the-numbers, it manages to get past a leaden opening few chapters and evolve nicely.
Once it gets going, it's pretty great, and I was able, even, to get past its often surreal logic.The plot is straightforward: guy sleeps with his boss's girlfriend.
Boss doesn't know it's him.
Boss kills girlfriend in fit of drunken anger.
Boss wants to blame someone else.
Boss gets guy having an affair with his now-dead girlfriend to investigate and find the "killer".Multi-perspective chapters help advance the madness along, too.
I was a bit surprised at how slow this novel started: there’s nothing in the first thirty pages to indicate the page turning tension that is to follow.
So having other narrators take the stage briefly to push the plot and let us see how Stroud is dealing with things was a good choice.
Not a lot of variance in the voices, however, at least until the chapter narrated by the artist, there Fearing really stretched out and captured a voice different from Stroud.Don’t want to be a spoiler so will skip the details, but the ending does not work because it doesn’t actually solve Stroud’s problem.
When I read fiction, the last aspect I care about is plot, but I've been reading crime novels and mysteries to help me better teach plot to my students interested in writing genre and popular fiction.
Although Fearing has some dynamic poems, he restrains himself from linguistic indulgences in his fiction.
Fearing's practice as a technician is the only aspect of the novel that will stay with me, but I am particularly impressed at how in a restrained prose style he uses narrative shifts to move the plot.
The big clock of the title is our seemingly inevitable fate; time marching on relentlessly towards our end, and this also sums up the predicament the protagonist feels in this story of a man investigating himself for a murder he didn’t commit.The lovely Pauline Delos has been murdered by her boyfriend, a magazine publisher, and this becomes obvious to one of his employees, standing in the shadows, having been almost caught in flagrante delicto mid-affair.
The publisher gives the task to said employee, a man with editorial control over a title breaking stories on real life crime.The first half of the novel is a delight in terms of turns of phrase.
In the Library of America set I have this in, it's preceded by The Postman Always Rings Twice, They Shoot Horses, Don't They?, and Thieves Like Us. Out of the four so far, The Big Clock is more akin to They Shoot Horses, Don't They?: an interesting, short book with a pretty damn good film adaptation (TSH,DT?
Thieves Like Us is a great novel in its own right, unjustly forgotten by many it seems, despite the Robert Altman and Nicholas Ray films, both pretty good.
The Postman Always Rings Twice has two tolerable film adaptations, but neither is anywhere near as good as the violent, sensuous, lush, and unrelentingly dark novel they're based on.
Maybe author Kenneth Fearing's pen was running out of ink or his publisher was banging on the door demanding a manuscript, either way he wrapped this one up dead sudden!The tension was building to almost unbearable levels, the net was closing in on our "hero" and then...
It's slightly more complicated than that but I don't have all day.Still for all it's sudden ending this was for the the most part an excellent thriller recounted by multiple narrators and the tension truly does ratchet up with every page and every development.
But for the ending this would undoubtedly have warranted a 5 star review but the feeling of being let down will be with me for a little while yet.
A curious novel (from 1946) made into at least one curious movie, The Big Clock is regarded as a noir classic.
Its premise is clever and original: A journalist is put in charge of an investigation to locate and identify a reluctant witness to a murder, who happens to be himself.
Going to the cops will destroy his marriage; completing his task will finger him for the killer.
The only mystery is how our man is going to get out of the jam.
Fearing was a poet, and his prose was pretty decent, too; the clock of the title is a metaphor.
I didn't dislike this book the way most of my fellow classmates seemed to.
I think I have an easier time reading books and appreciating them for what they are, rather than what I want them to be.
The book was written to make a point about attempting to maintain your individuality and keep your head above water in the face of an emergingly powerful force - corporate america - and its takeover of the media.
I found it fascinating - not the best book of the century, but at least one of the important ones.
(Stroud and Janoth, for example, may perceive it as a nightmare, but it’s not differentiated in any way from their normal lives in that regard.)The story depends on her choice not to turn him in; the fact that she thinks he’d lie in response and be believed instead of her is a wonderfully cynical gloss on this choice, as is the fact that Stroud manages to turn the circumstances to his advantage and essentially blackmail her, when as she points out in her internal monologue, it out to be she who blackmails him.
“I knew I would never breath [sic] again,” says Stroud at one point, and though he manages to avoid being crushed in the cogs of the titular clock this time round the circle, it’s unclear how long he’ll be able to continue that pattern.

The 1948 film version, scripted by Jonathan Latimer and directed by John Farrow, is a classic of paranoid, walls-closing-in storytelling which Paul Shrader included in a list of pictures exemplifying what he called the second phase of the classic film noir cycle, “the post-war realistic period from 1945-’49.” Fearing was a police reporter for the Chicago City Press and in the 1920s wrote pseudonymous titillation for “spicy” pulps Tattle Tales, Paris Nights, French Night Life Stories, and Snappy.
Great cast: surprisingly ambivalent about sexual preferences for 1946.Place=5: While Agatha Christie's "Orient Express" ran horizontally, here we have a 30-story publishing company running vertically.
Fearing sets us in the middle of a publishing company which thrives on stories, and writers who make stories even bigger and better and possibly not even close to the truth anymore.
This is a very good book which, for me, could have been great had the author spent less time on foreplay and more time on plot resolution.
THE BIG CLOCK by Kenneth Fearing is a good noir, with an experimental structure and an original plot of a guy having to hunt himself, sort of like that movie D.O.A., but with a less morbid punchline.
It’s told in the first person by half-a-dozen characters, but mostly the protagonist, the sucker who fucked his boss’ girlfriend, who shows up dead the next morning.
Raymond Chandler loves the book, which has been adapted into two movies.
All this going for it and yet I was sleepwalking my way through the book.
It’s not you, book, it’s me.
Everything seems black-and-white to me, even a classic noir like this.
Whenever you see a man leading a search party for himself, please think of this. Pretty cynical.
Even the milieu in which Stroud works--as executive editor for one of many periodicals owned by a publishing magnate named Earl Janoth--while providing Fearing a way of exploring the whole "faceless modern corporate world" thing, is not so compelling (in fact, at times, the plethora of names and publications can get a bit confusing) that I just couldn't stop reading.I couldn't say for sure, but I may have simply been biding my time during those first few chapters in anticipation of what I knew (based on reading about the book) was to come--that George Stroud has a fling with Janoth's girlfriend, then witnesses her and Janoth going into her apartment building together.
Classic noir from 1946, this still holds up well today. The book was adapted as a well-received film by the same name in 1948; the plot was also used as a basis for the film “No Way Out” in 1987. Worth the read for those who enjoy the genre.
