https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176839.One_True_Thing
This is the book that changed everything for me ...
I was a slow reader and my mind would wander while I read.
Instead of a final exam, we were required to read this book and then write a paper about it.
I did not enjoy reading, so I was pleasantly surprised when I couldn't put the book down!
This was almost 10 years ago, so I'm not sure if the book was really that remarkable, but the one thing I do know is that it was good enough to change my mind about reading for pleasure.
This was my favorite Anna Quindlin book!People who might consider reading this:Mothers...daughters...Husbands & wifes...People who value education...People who value family...People who value community...People who have ever cheated -have thought of cheating --or have been a child of parents who have...People who question 'what's right' and 'what's wrong.....(are willing to consider that maybe YOU'VE got it backwards).People who know 'somebody' who has had cancerPeople who know people who have died....so who isn't this book for? Got me!
Are our relationships really how we imagine them, or just a “vast web of misunderstandings, a tinted and touched up family portrait, an accurate representation of fact that leaves out only the essential truth”?Ellen has reluctantly quit her successful New York career to move in with her parents and take care of her dying mother.
Ellen always had a good relationship with her father, but felt she had little in common with her mother.
Early on, mother and daughter decide to form a book club so that they have something to share, reading Pride and Prejudice, Great Expectations, and Anna Karenina.
I have been wanting to read this book, but have been reluctant to start it.
The description of working so hard to make that last Christmas 'as it always was' was on the money.
In many ways, the book was like someone else truly understood what I had felt.
**Only after reading other reviews and seeing the other book editions, did I remember that I saw this movie in college.
And yet reading the book today, I never cried.
Amazing how you can approach the very same work from such a different place in your life.
This book hit way too close to home for me on multiple levels.
I lost my grandmother 3 years ago to Cancer, and my family moved into her home to help take care of her, eventually bringing in a nurse until we finally had to move her into hospice.
Ellen comes home to take care of her mom (against her will) while her mom starts chemo and the eventual downhill that follows.
The other thing that bothered me was how detached Ellen was emotionally-- just felt a little off.This quote ripped my heart apart and sums up this book's emotions perfectly, "I'd read them all before.
Both are written earlier in Quindlen's writing career, but very different books.One True Thing is more of a study in character.
I am glad I read this book, if only, because I learned, that we might think we know a person, but there are often many things, that change our perceptions of a person, when we don't know as much as we think we know.I hope I remember that important lesson.
We read the blurb on dust jackets when we are in a bookstore because we want to decide if the book is going to interest us.
You can read the synopsis for yourself, but in short Ellen Gulden is a Harvard-educated writer living in New York, on the cusp of greatness.
Her father is a Lit. Professor and Ellen connects with him, more than her stay-at-home mother, Kate.
Kate is diagnosed with cancer, and with the urging of her father, Ellen leaves the city and moves home to help take care of her mother and the chores.
When reading One True Thing, I find myself connected to both women, Ellen Gulden and her mother, Kate.
As a mother, I see the world through Kate's heart, and Ellen's eyes.
This is one of those books that haunts you long after you read it.
It is about the relationships between an adult daughter, her dying mother and the father she adores.
The daughter puts her career on hold to return home, as her father demands, to care for her mother.
I read it a year or so after caring for my own dying mother, and several passages were so perfectly descriptive of the emotionally charged experience that I was moved to tears.
Quindlen writes as though from experience, though her own mother died suddenly when she was a young adult.
I read this book shortly after my own Mom died, so it was especially painful. I loved the book and cook club and how the daughter finally was able to establish an adult relationship with a woman she had totally misjudged. The book explores being pulled painfully out of our childhood misconceptions about who our family members are. The daughter gained a mother just to lose her, and lost a father after being forced to see him exposed to the harsh light of reality rather than through childish adoration. It's a book worth reading again.

There are some authors I'm interested in reading, but instead of reading a variety of their books, I end up rereading the same book repeatedly.
Maybe I should add a bookshelf called "books I'm tired of re-reading".To me, the best parts of the book are her descriptions.
Once or twice during my most recent reading I was so taken with the description that I lost interest in the plot; I just wanted to focus for a moment on the wordcraft.The storytelling is okay (good enough to be made into a movie), but it's Quindlen's wordcraft that makes this book for me.
I'm often distrustful when critics call a novel remarkable, but in this case they are right. Funny thing was that when this was made into a movie, and I heard Meryl Streep was in it, I thought she was all wrong for the part-- because I envisioned her as the daughter (ie ,i>my age) not as the mother, who should have been my mom's age. I laughed when I learned she played the mom, because of course, that was good casting. :)
I really like Anna Quindlen. I think she writes very real, ordinary books that show a hidden, beautiful side of human nature. An especially poignant story about mother-daughter relationships.
One True Thing by Anna Quindlen was a gently meandering character driven novel shining the light upon family dealing with a terminal illness.
It was moving, beautifully written, and a delight to read.Early on I couldn't relate to Ellen the novels protagonist.
I couldn't understand her reluctance toward coming home to care for her mother during the last months of her life.
During the months spent caring for her mother Ellen developed a whole new understanding about the person her mother was.
Over time Anna Quindlen's skillful writing changed my attitude towards Ellen.
Once again Anna Quindlen has delivered.
Once upon a time, there was a woman who lost her mother then her sister to cancer, within two years of each other.
Then 14 years later, she read this book and some things she had forgotten came back to her.
Hard.Anna Quindlen did a remarkable job of describing the losses that come with cancer’s inexorable march—losses that do not include the death of the loved one with the cancer.
We see our loved ones in one way, and it’s very hard to change that unless something pretty spectacular or devastating happens.
While this was very hard to read, it was also wonderful to read—well-crafted, well-developed, well-described.
This was a bit of a slow start for me, and I felt the epilogue was a bit long and drawn-out, but it really picked up about half-way through, and part of the epilogue was great.The book reminded me a little bit of The End of Your Life Book Club, although that was non-fiction and this is a work of fiction.
But a young woman returns to the family home to take care of her mother as she undergoes cancer treatments and, in order to give her an "in" to her daughter's thoughts (they hadn't been very close prior to this period), the mother suggests they form a book club and they talk about Anna Karenina and Pride and Prejudice.
When Ellen Gulden must quit her job and return home to care for her dying mother, Ellen is resentful.
Guilt is a close companion to that resentment, but as she and her mother connect during the weeks Ellen comes to know the woman who reared her as someone much more than the clever homemaker and civic minded individual of her childhood.
One True Thing is a powerful story about family, about life, about death; it leaves you knowing just how complex our connections to each other really are, and you won't find out the true irony until the end.
I am loving this book, as I have the other Qundlen books I've read recently. And now I'm back on goodreads--I've been MIA while dealing with hospital, convalescent hospital, and now assisted living.
This is the best, the most carefully written, of all Quindlen's books I've read so far.
I really loved this. The characters, the family dynamics, and yes that moral dilemma.
Ellen has been more like her father – driven and ambitious, given to literary analysis and harsh judgment – but as she spends times with her mother and begins to recognize the hard work and dedication required to be the homemaker Kate is, Ellen arrives at some different conclusions about who she is, who her parents are, and their relationships to one another.This is a thought-provoking read for several reasons.
That being said, there are some scenes which are difficult to read, because Quindlen is brutally honest about what it means to be a caregiver to a terminally ill loved one.
Still reading, but a combination of life and the books I've read simply not prodding me to turn on the computer, have made me rather lax.
It's not exclusive;- a strained relationship between mother and daughter is tested to the extreme when the mum becomes ill, - but my goodness, what a story!
Alice Hoffman's quote on the front cover says 'Simply impossible to forget'.
I mentioned reading this book on Facebook via a book club I'm in, and it was noted by Susie Lynes, herself an extremely talented writer.
Now that will definitely prod me into turning on the computer and heading for the book section!
I loathed the father, all the choices he made and the fact that the family compromised for him every time.
I think the main reason why I didn't like this book is because I didn't like the characters.
They made such bad choices all based on their selfishness.
The fact that someone finally said out loud that they didn't like Elizabeth Bennett and the reasons for their dislike might be enough to recommend this book.
Made me look at EB a little differently and in a new light and I have to admit that I agreed with the argument, oh my!!!
This novel read like a memoir: One True Thing = many true things. I had to stop reading and take breaks, because it was so intimately sad (and I have not had or nursed someone with cancer). The ending felt like it was written by a different author - didn't ring true, somewhat contrived - but it is easy to forgive.
Stephen King recommended. This book was much better than I expected. It's not generally the type of story I'm drawn to, but it was well-written and the characters were well-developed.
Bah. Anna Quindlen's prose makes plucking out eyelashes seem like a reasonably fun way to spend an afternoon.
Beautiful and sensitive book about life, love, choices and consequences. Family life as it is and how it changes with crisis. Excellent book and well written.
And then the next morning you wake up and the kitchen smells like coffee and the children have their hair all brushed and the birds are eating out of the feeder and you look at your husband and he's not the person you used to think he was but he's your life.
You can be hard, and you can be judgmental, and with those two things alone you can make a mess of your life the likes of which you won't believe.
The plot line is simple: a young woman (Ellen Gulden) starting her career in New York City is called back home, to the small college town in which she grew up, to be a caretaker while her mother (Kate Gulden) is dying of cancer.
Perhaps it was the story line of a daughter leaving her high flying NYC life behind to take care of her dying mother back in her home town, or the shallow and cowardly boyfriend who ditches her for doing so, or her professor father’s philandering while his wife of countless years keeps the home fires burning while her own candle grows dim, but I just found the whole thing totally depressing.
When it became clear that the mom had died of an overdose then the daughter was arrested.
