https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29501.The_End_of_Faith
This is to say the book's popularity is due to external factors, its timing, and cathartic tone.
Any reader familiar with the atheistic works of Lucretius through Bertrand Russell or Antony Flew (who recently became a deist) will find Sam Harris' treatment to be scattered, grasping, and shallow.
Sam Harris).
This is poignant given Harris' trite pontifications on the primacy of science, as if he is a sugared up kid ready to jump into the now-drained pool of Positivism.
The book does have the verve and personal engagement that is rare.
There are several currents running through The End of Faith, many of which I agree with enthusiastically, some of which I regard with caution, and one or two that I find so strange as to wonder whether Harris wrote the last few chapters while in too..
(4) Religious beliefs should not be accorded "respect".If you are still nodding after (4), you agree with Harris (and incidentally, me) on the main thesis of his book.
Harris states "Religious moderates are, in large part, responsible for the religious conflict in our world, because their beliefs provide the context in which scriptural literalism and religious violence can never be adequately opposed".
The End of Faith by Sam Harris is a landmark book for me.
It influenced my writing most of all books and for that I'm glad.
I couldn't, however read the parts about meditation and Sam Harris's take on mysticism is too contemporary and he doesn't look at the subject through history.
Harris's writing was surprisingly muted there and he didn't give any example to clarify his vague texts.
Seemed that I was reading it for the first time quite recently.
Sam Harris should go back to discussing Christianity as that is his forte and he should update his work.
Choosing to be moderate, as Sam says, betrays both one's faith and reason.This may be the hardest pill for Sam to get readers to swallow, because it requires the most sacrifice of one's own foundations (if one is moderately religious, that is.) This proposition simultaneously asks the moderate believer to abandon thoughts that they have held to be sacrosanct from their youth, and then as a consequence, "disaffiliate" themselves from a tribe with which they have strong identification.
Scott Atran in his latest book, Talking to the Enemy, dedicates an entire section to responding to and debunking Harris' claims about suicide bombing.
(Robert Pape is also recommended for a reality-based view of terrorism and suicide bombing.) Certainly fundamentalism of the Islamic stripe is a danger (just ask Theo van Gogh), but foreign policy can't be based on a fundamental misconception of religion and geopolitics.The same type of distortions are found in much of Harris' treatment of history in general.
I believe the word he was looking for is "ideology."When Harris isn't rewriting history, he spends a number of other chapters laying out a philosophy of materialism or philosophical naturalism.
If you won't give up your theistic beliefs by our obviously superior rational arguments, then I'll shame you in to giving them up."Ho hum.Harris trots out the usual dusty canards of the New Atheists: religion is evil, it's the cause of all the wars, it's gonna destroy mankind, etc.Of course none of this is ever based on any serious scientific research, odd for the priests of Science.
He repeatedly claims that "If you don't have evidence in favor of your beliefs, then your belief is unjustified or irrational." Of course, all we need to do is inquire about this belief itself.
The problem, then, is that he claims we shouldn't allow people to have unjustified beliefs.
My primary complaint with this work, and the reason I knocked off a couple stars, is due to Mr. Harris's illogical and inconsistent privileging of America and fundamentalist Christianity over the more "violent" Islam.For example, he argues that we can rest assured that the intent of Bush in bombing Iraq was not, as in the case of Palestinian suicide bombings, an attempt to cause widespread civilian death.
Much more logical to assume that with the most powerful military on the globe, Christian America doesn't need to do suicide bombings?Next, we're assured that these non-Western nations, with their approaches toward death and suicide, could not possess nuclear weapons without annihilating innocent civilians with them.
I absolutely reject Harris's key argument that Islam is essentially and inescapably a religion of violence and hate. That's like defining Christianity by the actions of the KKK. Given that, it's hard for me to do anything other than dislike the book, but I was equally disappointed in it for other reasons. e.g. compared to religion, "Mysticism is a rational enterprise" based on "empirical evidence." (p. 221). Um, really?Very disappointed in this read.  ETA: As many people have pointed out, this c
I absolutely reject Harris's key argument that Islam is essentially and inescapably a religion of violence and hate. That's like defining Christianity by the actions of the KKK.¹ Given that, it's hard for me to do anything other than dislike the book, but I was equally disappointed in it for other reasons. e.g. compared to religion, "Mysticism is a rational enterprise" based on "empirical evidence." (p. 221). Um, really?Very disappointed in this read. ¹ ETA: As many people have pointed out, this comparison was the wrong one to make. Because the KKK was WAY worse
Everyone who is Islam is not a bad person, as a group that can run out into the street waving AK-47's around cheering and celebrating the deaths of a few thousand innocent people, or who find it proper to behead people, or douse women in gasoline and light them on fire, or excitedly show pictures you took with your camera of dead-people on the ground around the WTC that are now housed on your laptop, and not understand how come everyone else around you doesn't think it's a great thing (ok, this guy might just be a sociopath who happened to be Muslim, but still Greg conspiracy number 3 of 9/11, why did he bring not one but two cameras to school with him that day, when he had never brought cameras to school any other day?
For Sam Harris, this is more or less the sort of intolerable behavior and belief structure that has absolutely no business in our current political reality, even in our daily interactions with other human beings for that matter.A significant aspect of this social and ethical hinderance is the way in which religious beliefs tend to deliberately factor out one another.
One difficult aspect of Harris's methodology here is that in calling for complete intolerance of religious faith, he might sound equally intolerant of religion.
Here Harris argues that moderate believers are as dangerous as fundamentalists as by stopping debate on faith they leave the field to the fundamentalists to cause havoc.
I like his view that our only hope is a conversation and religion ends all conversations always falling back on faith and therefore leaving no room for further debate.The last few chapters about Buddhism were very odd.
Well, yeah - but not because these chapters are not atheistic enough, but because they just don't fit in the book at all.Letter to a Christian Nation is a much better read - but in talking to moderate christians this might well be the more important book.
In this book, Harris makes the compelling argument that human beings can no longer afford the luxury of major religious belief systems.
Harris claims that even moderate members of a religion are to blame for extreme acts committed in the name of their faith, because the moderates help to legitimize the acceptance of beliefs that can be easily used to support violence.
This is a highly provocative book that offers many important ideas to the debate about the role of religion in modern life.
I was excited to read this book after seeing Sam Harris on the Colbert Report.
It seemed like the Atheist argument that I had really been waiting for, and that finally I was going to find something that I wholeheartedly could get behind, without reservation.Well, if I could give this book negative five stars I would.
I don't need the book to require a Philosophy degree in order to understand the allusion and logic of the argument, but I would like the argument to be flushed out, and have a bit less emotional energy.
Hitler exterminated Jews from a Racist-Darwinian belief, not a religious conviction.
He argues from no philosophic framework that hasn't been cogently discredited in the past fifty years.Essentially, THE END OF FAITH is a diatribe based upon his prejudicial dismissal of belief, not on sound philosophical argumentation or factual presentation.
He replied, "They don't believe for the same reason unintelligent people do; they simply don't want to believe."It is not that I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone; it's that anyone who reads this book should be aware of other philosophical and theological framework that is obscured from the regular reader.
Unless the core dogmas of faith are called into question (that is, that we know that there is a God, and that we know what he wants from us), religious moderation will do nothing to lead us out of the wilderness." This is wonderful, wonderful writing, at least for this reader.
"The God Delusion" (by Richard Dawkins) lays out a more logically organized and readable look at a broad range of naturalist (as opposed to supernaturalist) arguments, and would be my recommended starting point for someone just beginning to read modern atheist literature.
Theists accuse him of bashing religion and are quick to bring up evil men like Stalin and Hitler to make their point(view spoiler)[Harris' response is even if one agrees there were no religious undertones to what these men did (and one could argue the hatred of the Jews was facilitated by the Christian belief that Jews were responsible for the death of Christ in the case of Hitler), there were pervasive dogmas and a slew of bad ideas involved.
His starting point is Islamic terrorism, which he argues can only be understood in the context of faith--without the religious beliefs underpinning these people's lives, without the certainty they have in both the righteousness of their cause and the eternal reward they will earn, recruiting for suicide bombing missions would be awfully hard.Part of his argument, though, is that contrary to what we typically say, the problem isn't just a few extremists.
Harris examines a number of ways that this has played out in the U.S. At its heart, religion is making claims about the world--about how it is and how it should be.
Belief in an afterlife (NEVER provable) full of rewards leads people to irrational and dangerous behavior in THIS life---the only one we have.The author's argument/fear is that worldwide religious disagreement will eventually lead to mutual annihilation because all these religions look forward to some sort of apocalyptic end in which they themselves are the victors.
Our extreme tolerance of people's religious beliefs encourages radicals of all faiths to flourish and grow without opposition.
Unfortunately, Harris gets so bogged down in philosophical rhetoric and neuroscience in the last few chapters of the book that he dilutes the strength and importance of his message.
The 2005 paperback edition includes an Afterword in which the author speaks to some of the earlier criticism of this title, whether the criticism was made correctly or incorrectly: the atrocities of irreligious regimes (which he actually does speak to within the work itself), the need for some kinds of faith, the unique challenge of Islam, and his understanding of what does constitute a valuable mysticism/spirituality (to the horror of some atheists).
I was surprised by the inclusion of the mysticism/spirituality section, and I’m still mulling it over; I think if Harris is granted all his premises, he may be right.
It has always been clear to me that faith-based belief systems eliminate the possibility of conversation and the alternative to conversation is violence.
For example, if you want to discuss a policy issue that relates to a faith-based belief, the dialogue ceases when one says "I don't believe that." There can be no response.Sam Harris discusses the issue also, but much more articulately.
Harris argues in his book that we need to take religious dogmatists at their word; if they say that blowing themselves up in the service of their belief will gain them a place in heaven, we should believe them.Is there an alternative to religious faith?
2017 Review:I read Sam Harris’s The End of Faith: Religion, Terror and the Future of Reason probably 10 years ago and remember disagreeing with his views on Islam.
There are moderate Muslims and I think it’s very important that they are supported as much as possible, particularly when they point out the shortcomings of their own religion.
Earlier in the book, Harris discusses extensively the idea of faith and how believers, before resorting to faith, find reasons (even if these reasons are weak) to support their religious beliefs.
Harris criticizes religion and he has written several books such as Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion, Letter to a Christian Nation and The Moral Landscape.Harris discusses his views on his “Waking Up” podcast that he started in 2013.Structure of the book: It has 325 pages and it is divided in seven chapters, each one having a unique title.Overview: This book was written after the 9/11 attacks.
The author also provides evidence to his claim that religion opposed the development of stem cell research in the US as well as AIDS prevention and family planning in the developing countries.Weak points: I personally found weird discussing mysticism and meditation from Sam Harris, who is one of the “Four Horsemen of Atheism.” And I did not understand it.
Further in the first chapter he opposes respect and tolerance for all religions as they are all based on no evidence and on the other hand can lead to various harmful results (violence, ignorance, waste of lives for non violent reasons and more)He challenges the issue of religious belief.
In the case of religious beliefs, they do not represent the real world and are useless in predicting anything.
In another chapter of the book, he discusses the influence of the Cristian right in the U.S and criticizes it for (among others) in influencing such areas as drug policies, embryonic stem cell research, and AIDS prevention in the developing world and separation of state and religion.His description of the Muslim religion is even harsher, and he describes it as "The cult of death".
I've read Dawkins, Dennett and now Harris (I think this book should also be read with Letter to a Christian Nation which was his response to all the hate mail he received.) Harris makes a very good case, perhaps less shrilly than Dawkins, for why religious belief perpetuates evil and hatred.
Clearly the faith-based foreign policy engaged in by the Bush administration is evidence enough of the moral bankruptcy of religious policy wonks.I have to admit that I was one of those Harris castigates, i.e., those who fail to criticize religious moderates.
He makes a strong case for not tolerating religious faiths, regardless of how moderate or fundamental they might be.
But Harris' book is hypocritical, shallow, and unpleasant.
And the sad truth is that however much his general case might apply to almost all religion (potentially even his own), much of the book is merely a thinly-veiled assault on Islam; a reasoned attack on religious superstition in all its forms is one thing--rank bigotry is something else.It's unfortunate: this could have been a great book.
Had Harris done what he claims to be attempting--illustrating the dangers of medieval superstition in a nuclear age--the book could have been a serviceable defense of capital-R Reason.
I am sympathetic, though perhaps not entirely convinced, of Harris's argument that faith--moderate or extreme--is always dangerous.
However, religious beliefs should certainly be opened to criticism.
As Harris suggests, religious beliefs should be made as open to criticism as any others, and people must become aware that the argument that "the Bible says so" is a non-argument.
Harris goes astray, however, when discussing rational ethics, by effectively endorsing torture.
Further undermining Mr. Harris's argument for most, I suspect, will be his turn in the last chapter to effectively endorse mysticism and, in particular, Buddhism.
To take just two obviously bad arguments: * he rejects the idea that religion can cause good things by saying that since everyone throughout history has been religious, it's a truism to say that religion has caused some good things.
But that argument is equally applicable to his own claim that religion is the cause of almost everything bad: it's not religion.
It's people who claim to be religious that are behind the evil.
* he cites a survey which shows that support for suicide bombing varies significantly across a number of Islamic nations.
We are at war with Islam. Sam Harris.There are no atheists in foxholes. William J. Clear.Igitur qui desiderat pacem, praeparet bellum. Vegetius.Screw you guys I'm going home. Eric Cartman.
BRILLIANT.Simply Brilliant!!!!If you have a choice to read this or God is Not Great by Hitchens, do yourself a favor and read this.
The future is scary. Very scary. And there is no sight for it to become any better. I'm scared for my children.
