https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36681184-still-lives
”For the four years I’ve lived in Los Angeles, the Rocque Museum has been my workplace and my university, offering me a degree in contemporary art and the cosmopolitan life---brilliant as the blues in a Sam Francis painting, decadent as a twenty-four-karat cast of a cat testicle.
Kim Lord has a reputation for producing edgy, progressive art, but she has been out of circulation for a while, so this new exhibition, Still Lives, that she does in conjunction with the Rocque Museum, is not only going to reestablish her reputation, but also give the Rocque some much needed publicity, as well.
In Lord’s art, it isn’t Elizabeth, Nicole, and Judy, but Kim Lord herself who is posing in the place of the original victim.
And while everything mentioned in the blurb does in fact happen in the book, it's not told in as thrilling of a way as you might expect.
Things happen and you (sort of) get to know the characters, but it's not very engaging.Another issue I had with this book was that I never felt like I was able to understand Maggie, our main character, and her motivations.
There aren't a lot of emotions, even when somewhat dramatic things happen.It also feels like it's trying to say something about the fetishization of violence against women, but the novel is more concerned with the appearance of making a statement than actually making a statement.
3.5 stars.The Rocque Museum was one of Los Angeles' hidden treasures—an art museum for art lovers and collectors more than for tourists. While this set the institution apart, this also took a toll on its finances. Everyone is desperate for a hit exhibition, including the founder's daughter, who is tired of bailing out the museum and the director, who is worried about job security.They think they've found it in  Still Lives , an exhibition by artist and provocateur Kim Lord. Lord painted self-por
At the same time, it's also a bit of a whodunit, one of those books in which an average, everyday person finds themselves immersed in trying to solve a crime despite having no real skills at doing so, and despite the fact they're putting themselves in danger.The information that Maria Hummel provides gives a lot of insight into the former, and I like the way she describes the dynamics of the museum staff and the goings-on around the mounting of an exhibition.
But as the book shifts full-time toward Maggie trying to figure out what happened to Kim and who was responsible, it loses its footing a bit.
The glittering world of art can be at once insightful and nasty.
A at a prestigious gallery that is having money problems, a new show featuring the avant garde, often shocking Kim Lord.
Her latest installations are paintings of women who were mudered in Los Angeles, including Nicole zBrown Simpson and the Black Dahlia.
At the opening gala, Kim Lord makes headlines when she doesn't show up for her own show.This is a tightly plotted, literary mystery.
It all balances out nicely though, didn't guess the finale until Maggie herself makes the connection.
Maggie Richter is the museum editor, struggling to get over the break up of her relationship with Greg Shaw Ferguson, and carrying a haunting burden of the murder of a source that led to her giving up her fledgling career in journalism.
Maggie has no reason to help Greg, but she is convinced he is innocent, driving her to look into the life of Kim Lord, those involved with the Rocque Museum, and the art world.
The shady art world, with it's symbiotic relationship between the artist, dealer and collector is driven by money with most transactions happening behind closed doors.

Still Lives takes the reader on a mystery set in the L.A. art world.A famous artist, Kim Lord, goes missing on the opening night of her exhibit, "Still Lives."The exhibit is controversial because the portraits are of famous women like the Black Dahlia, Nicole Brown Simpson and other murdered women.There is definitely a lot of buzz and talk around the exhibit. When no one can find Lord on opening night, Maggie Richter, one of the museums editors, decides to investigate for herself.Mystery, suspen
When no one can find Lord on opening night, Maggie Richter, one of the museums editors, decides to investigate for herself.
Mystery, suspense, L.A., the art world, all should add up to one great book but sadly this book falls short.
It lacks the suspense and buildup of a great thriller.
In a great mystery/thriller, there is an expectation of anxiety, fear, excitement and a roller coaster of emotions that the main character experiences but sadly that did not happen with our main character, Maggie.
The dead already know their ending.A literary mystery surrounding the disappearance of an enigmatic painter set in the world of museums and galleries drew me to this story, but it was the author’s writing that kept me reading.
Just as interesting to me was another of the author’s posits about super collectors and their influence on the art market.Despite a ponderous first half and some misgivings about a novel that (maybe) had too much to say, I’m giving it four stars because I will always champion good writing and a satisfyingly complex plot.
Kim Lord is a famous artist with a very controversial show about to open when she mysteriously disappears.
Editor Maggie Richter finds herself sucked in to the scandal as she tries to figure out what happened to Kim, while struggling to reconcile with her own demons.I had a lot of hope for this book - set in Los Angeles, art world, scandal....but, something just didn't click with me.
I am clearly in the minority as this book is winning awards like crazy, so please take that into consideration.
Every one has different experiences with books, this one just wasn't for me.
Ultimately this book is a mystery about a missing person but the way the author wove in the Art community was very interesting.Kim Lord is a famous artist and it's her opening night of a her new exhibit.
She takes on a tough subject when it comes to her art: abused and battered women.
She paints based on emotion and tries to portray the struggle for women in these situations.The night of her exhibit opening she is no where to be found so she must be running late..or is she?Maggie works for the press company and is covering the exhibit launch.
Luckily, I found this in Still Lives, a suspenseful, splashy story about fame, sex, and how our culture views women’s bodies.Kim Lord is a prominent and provocative artist whose new show—a series of portraits in which she impersonates real-life murdered women—is about to be the art event of the year.
And Maggie, who dreads the worst, finds herself being pulled to the center of a plot bigger than she could’ve ever imagined.What happened to Kim Lord?
But I also loved that it tackled the sticky subject of how women are portrayed in art, culture, and the media—and the consequences of those portrayals.
This time, she exploits women who were murdered in horrible crimes.
But I don’t want my book pretentious.
I could care less about an author infodumping about art and murder victims and musing about how this fictional art means something.It didn’t help that Maggie was the most boring sop of a woman I have met in a book.
Poor everyone!” She was constantly in some pity party and I got bored with her.None of the other characters were interesting either.
And this book seemed to be a lot about art of famous murder victims and not enough about the actual crime in the book.Definitely not for me.
Her groundbreaking new exhibition Still Lives is comprised of self-portraits depicting herself as famous, murdered women—the Black Dahlia, Chandra Levy, Nicole Brown Simpson, among many others—and the works are as compelling as they are disturbing, implicating a culture that is too accustomed to violence against women.
A rogue’s gallery of eccentric art world figures could also have motive for the act, and as Maggie gets drawn into her own investigation of Lord’s disappearance, she’ll come to suspect all of those closest to her.
Still Lives is a refreshingly original take on the contemporary thriller set in glamorous Los Angeles.
There are plenty of surprises and I found myself completely immersed in the story and the wonderful setting.
If you appreciate intriguing thrillers that are both chilling and disturbing, you will find much to enjoy here.
At its core, is the exploration of societies fascination with the distasteful, sort of like when people can't help but stare at a car crash they are passing on the motorway.
People have an insatiable appetite for the macabre, this novel highlights this extremely well.Many thanks to Quercus for an ARC.
4.5 starsStill Lives is a fascinating read set in Los Angeles that focuses on the disappearance of an up-and-coming artist right before the opening night of her exhibition.
On a professional level, Maggie is uncomfortable with the subject matter and the fact that the art work itself has drawn a lot of criticism; on a personal level, Kim Lord currently dates Maggie’s ex-boyfriend Greg who Maggie still misses.
While the subject matter of the book is dark, Hummel’s deft and careful handling of the graphic elements of the story lessened the gruesomeness and allowed me to focus on Kim’s disappearance and the craziness of the modern art world.I highly recommend Still Lives.
It’s more of a slow burn noir about the LA art world, with a missing woman at the center.On the opening night of her new museum exhibition featuring self-portraits in which she depicts herself as famous murdered women, artist Kim Lord disappears.Maggie Richter, who works at the museum as an editor, becomes swept up in the mystery, suspecting her colleagues and her ex-boyfriend, Greg, a gallery owner who was dating Kim.As Maggie becomes more consumed in her own secret investigation, she realizes that her own life may be in danger.This is one of those books where I enjoyed the journey more than the destination.
Which would be fine if it added to the discussion a great deal, but it felt that all that description was for sensationalism and then led to some overly simplified ideas: 1) society is preoccupied with violence against women and 2) it's really common.
As Hummel mentioned the stats about violence against women, and the characters pointed to the men around them, I had a bad feeling that whoever the murderer ended up being, it would likely be a woman.
When a crime novel is set in a very specific place or time or industry, it can sometimes feel more like a gimmick than something where the story flows organically from it.
The art is vivid, the ideas expand, it is almost like going to an art exhibit yourself, and that's a really significant compliment.On the mystery/crime novel side, this is a solid entry.
This is more of a literary crime novel, though I did feel like there were times when the book felt more literary and times when it felt more like a crime novel and they didn't always work together the way I would like.
I'm quickly coming to realize that books about possession or art just don't work for me all that well.
While this one is centered around a missing artist and the behind the scenes of where she could possibly be, the underlying world of art and what people consider art just does not interest me.
I think this book is more suited for those who love the art world, love a woman who is still hung up on her ex and then plays detective to try and help him since he's suspect number one...
"She also says that unless women artists simultaneously inhabit the roles of artist and subject, the art world will never escape the prison of the male gaze" This may not be the first book to make literary capital out of the juxtaposition of contemporary art, sexualised violence against women and murder, but it weaves its themes together with considerable deftness to create something that is immensely readable while constructed on a foundation of feminist aesthetics. The first person narrator,
This isn't a rush of breathless page-turning action so if that's what you're looking for best step away now - it's also bold in its refusal to turn away from the extent to which modern western culture dwells on, even fetishises, beautiful dead women.My one niggle is that Maggie makes a sudden leap of intuition to pinpoint the murderer and the motive/actions are not very credible.
But, then, I'd say this is far less of a whodunnit and more of an exposé of the hip art world and its embedded capitalist concerns that make women's bodies and art itself into commodities to be bought, sold and owned.Overall, then, a smart read that wraps up important ideas in a thriller-style format.
Everyone seems to be giving this book at least 4 stars but in reality just like art is subjective so are books.
I really, and I mean, really struggled with this book at least until 60% of the story.
It’s not that it is a badly written book, it was just boring and slow.
The other half of the book gets a bit better but the ending did not wow me and by the time I was done with the book I was tired of reading it.
I’d like to thank Edelweiss for providing me a copy of this book in exchange for my honest opinion.
Honestly. One of the worst books I have read this year. However it is not for a lack of trying. I just couldn’t connect with any of the characters and the story never seemed to get off the ground. I was really disappointed because I was looking forward to reading this and it was a let down. I skimmed half the book just to figure out what happened at the end.
Picked up this audiobook on Hoopla. It was a botm pick previously, so I thought I’d give it a try. But, like many contemporary murder mystery/thrillers, I found the story unrealistic, plot thin, and characters ridiculous. I don’t understand why women in these stories all make such bad decisions. This one was a disappointment for me, and I’m starting to think that this just isn’t my genre.
The main character, Maggie Richter, works at the Rocque Museum in LA.
Maggie has mixed feelings about this exhibition; not only because of the theme of the paintings, but also because Kim Lord is the lover of art gallery owner, Greg Shaw Ferguson.
When Kim Lord fails to appear, this shocks Maggie into trying to investigate.
However, without doubt, it is the unusual background of the art world, and those who inhabit it, which really made the novel work well.
It was a wonderfully imagined world, and the creepy background of Kim Lord’s exhibition, really gave this an unsettling feel.
I wanted to love this one, I really did, but it just didn’t work for me. Maybe it’s a case of right book, wrong time, but at the moment this one fell wide of the mark for me!
Maggie Richter works for a private art museum in L.A. and they are getting ready to present an exhibit of paintings by Kim Lord called Still Lives, depicting the gruesome deaths of several young women, all famous cases torn from the headlines.
The pretentious LA art scene is also an essential character of the story and is depicted in interesting detail with all the hard work that goes into preparing for and presenting a major exhibit.
Star points are downgraded a bit because the book is hardly a 'thriller' with most of the dramatic tension coming in the last fifty pages as the book builds to its conclusion.
Maggie works in an art gallery where an exciting new exhibition is premiering.
The exhibition is by Kim Lord, and includes self-portraits depicting herself as famous murder victims.
As hours and days pass, it appears something sinister may have happened to Kim. Maggie starts asking questions, and trying to piece together what has happened to Kim. This story is told from Maggie's point of view.
As Maggie looks into Kim's disappearance, she learns more about her coworkers and the art gallery.
While the characters were interesting, I never connected to them or was drawn into the story.
I did find the art world to be a compelling setting for the story.
I really wanted to like this -- I love a good mystery -- but I just found it really unconvincing, especially the big reveals and all the details to be tied up at the end.
Too many words. All over the place. And just boring. An interesting concept, but it just felt flat.
I learned that still life paintings started because women weren’t allowed to see live models.
The character Kim Lord is an avant-garde painter, known for her provocative art and behavior.
Some think it’s just her art; she’s missing to attract more attention.
Others believe she indeed is missing.The novel exposes the behind the scenes activity in an art museum.
The novel is told from protagonist Maggie Richter, who is the editor of the museum.
When the thriller starts humming along, Maggie does some unbelievable stuff that I didn’t think fit with her character.
The glimpse into the art world is entertaining.
