https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/600506.The_Ticket_That_Exploded
Lust for lifeI got a lust for lifeI got a lust for life- Iggy Pop, Lust for LifeReviewing, cutting, looking slowly back at 1962 oorˌtekst, 1967 Endetext, fold, refold, oragami fold, cut, paste, recut, film and redact. So? Start again. From the bigbanging. - there are no good words- I wrote silences - review the story of two halves, two texts, living text, breathing review Here comes Johnny Yen again/With the liquor and drugs - 'Better than 'the real thing?' - there is no real thing - reviewing t
- there are no good words- I wrote silences - review the story of two halves, two texts, living text, breathing review Here comes Johnny Yen again/With the liquor and drugs - 'Better than 'the real thing?' - there is no real thing - reviewing the review, before the end, I'm not sure the cut-up review will work.
Boys will be boys and boys, 'Boys we've been sublimated.' I'm worth a million in prizes/With my torture film.I'll redraft this draft, re-view this review, and post it toast it on Audible.
I'll let Audible carry my post-review drip penicillin.
Having read this all the way through I can state confidently that I had absolutely no idea what was going on.
And yet, at the same time, I sort of did.
The book seems to be about how the human visual imagination is really an invasion of alien messages, so the moment you 'see' something in your mind's eye you are actually submitting to outside control.To combat this in a book, a text can't have a narrative that presents a story flow that can be visualized by the reader in linear time.
So the meaning of the text has to accumulate in disconnected chunks.
Smell of rancid tide flat--police drama strangely flickers in and out, much channels are playing.
The unnerving documentary on parasitic Machine, however this strangely analogous to Doctor.
Channel-change static bursts to foil religious mind-control Now imagine what, and poisonous insects of the amazon--a sci-fi cable box.
Doctor Benway less noticeably playing a variety of sex films.
Imagine that these channels are strange religious sacrifices.
The text of The However Searching for a book is to flicker in and out of the presence liked it just the same.An Amazon, a sci-fi police drama, who flickers against sexual gratification--a convoluted search indeed.
This work needs to be approached as a piece of conceptual art or an occult manual... those seeking storytime may find it somewhat hard going.
The one William S. Burroughs book that causes the fan base to be afraid, really afraid. Burroughs at his most out there - those who have a fear of experimental writing - stay far away. This is a live bomb ticking slowly and it may explode in your hands! For those who are not afraid, this is really good. Burroughs at his most dry, and distain for the real square's world most intense work.
If you don't like the idea of reading paragraph after paragraph about catapulting streams of jism, then maybe this book is not for you.
But the Ticket That Exploded is about so much more than torrential ejaculations...
There is a kind of zen state that becomes necessary to read Burroughs sometimes, you have to really let the sickness flood over you and understand that it is not the author that is sick, but instead you, you with your fear and your rules.
Burroughs is reprograming you.
Erasing fear and sensitivity to bullshit.
This book is a shaman guiding you through the spirit world of your anxiety.
Strange thing happened while reading. For the first time I felt genuine empathy for a book, not the words in the book but the actual tree the book was made of. Not that Burroughs is bad. He is innovative and funny and when he's in a good mood he moves his cut-up experiments toward poignancy. I will read more. But the significant enjoyment I got from this was outweighed by the perhaps false but nonetheless overwhelming impression that I was wasting my time.
Burroughs' 2nd cut-up novel (if I have the chronology right) & the beginining of what's, for me, his strongest period.
My having opened to this page where "Towers, open fire" is written isn't just an indication of Burroughs' repetitiveness of certain phrases - it's also an indication of how magikal it all seems, of how oddly one can link into the writing - a proclamation for the effectiveness of Burroughs' formal strategies for breaking thru into deep levels of the mind.
The story seems to be about mind and body control through orgasms and splicing of tapes and I have to say Burroughs has a fucking dirty dirty dirty mind and I'm not sure what he was on at the time, but whatever the drug was, I'd congratulate his dealer.
Good job.I really liked the dirty parts and all the jizz and blue ejaculations etc etc etc, but there comes a time in a girl's day when liters of sperm seem to be a little much.
Anyway, bottom line, if you like sci-fi, and I mean, CRAZY IMAGINATIVE AND LYRICAL sci-fi, this book is good for that.
I read this right after reading Bukowski, so I was a little apprehensive. I really didnt want another masturbatory ode to losers and the women they convice to take care of them.I really liked this book. It was so stream-of-conciousness that after awhile it became a game to figure out any kind of story line underneath it all. (There is) It was actually quite disorienting: a straighforward paragraph, a paragragh or two disecting the first paragraphy, five or six paragraghs dissecting the previous

What happens in this book? Why, the cock flipped out and up rectal musk of KY jelly slides the green fingers of the fish boy into autoerotic tape manipulation causes an overlay of the physical forms in St. Louis, joe. Less a story and more a set of junkie koans to meditate upon in your search for the transformative power of the Word. Because in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, twisted in Burrough's thin, gnarled fingers into a vicious demiurge plumbing the darkest desires and depths of your psyche.
this is, by some arguments, burroughs' last cut-up method book, and it's where you realize he's come to believe all the crazy stuff he's been saying.
usually this just results in a certain electricity in how it all comes out, but in this book he gets too literal and things stops feeling weird and starts feeling crazy and tedious, because he's detailing for you how you're gonna change the world by using the cut-up method.
yes, it has some strong sections, but this is the book that could ruin burroughs for you.
still...my love is strong.
Hypnotizing. By the fact of Mr. Lee creating an entire universe for the purpose of presenting the cut up method not only to the reader but to the whole universe as a manual and as a combat manifesto against the powers that be. Utterly fascinating are also the step-by-step experiments of splicing tapes and breaking down the association patterns constructed over our entire time in this planet. Loved it. Are there any Brion Gysin or Ian Sommerville books out there? Gotta find out.
The Ticket That Exploded is Burroughs' best (and longest) book in his cut-up trilogy. It also is the most experimental and philosophical (if you are interested in the cut-up theory he adopted, this is the book for you). Moreover, it includes art and even writing by longtime friend and collaborator, Brion Gysin, who turned WSB on to the cut-up method. This is a must-read.
My favorite of the cut-up novels (includes Wild Boys, Nova Express, The Soft Machine)...lyrical, loopy, confused, witty, as usual: funny as can be, and (perhaps?) an important contribution to the evolution of literary form.
No.
He creates a perverse world/galaxy/universe, where, within the pages of the book, hundreds upon lives are lost and thousands of gallons of sperm are spilled and only your mind to mop up all that blood and jizz…-The book starts of incredibly strong and the fascinating flux between different levels of existence, from Bill Lee and BJ, to a ‘sick film’ to a character in the film reading a sci-fi book which all have equanimity both in the authority of their narrative and the space given to them in the book but, after a while (and Lord knows, I tried) they smear into each other and become incredibly hard to distinguish which can be seen as a real achievement of the text or becomes a tedious flux which the reader must patiently follow.
Of course, this is what an academic would say makes Burroughs “post-modern” or whatever – I think that really just groups him with some American writers all writing during the same historical period – namely post world war 2 (and before the Reagan 80s, where experimentalism was frowned upon in exchange for minimalism or other modes of storytelling).Really, reading one of these cut-up novels now (2017 – and I read The Soft Machine last year I believe) it is impossible to remove the presence of Burroughs the beatnik writer, junkie artist from the work.
Besides, as the second book in Burroughs' 'Nova trilogy', it was written using the cut-up method - it's not supposed to make sense.Let me explain - Burroughs experimented by cutting out lines of his manuscript and re-arranging them, and by recording lines and then cutting and pasting the recordings until a new composite whole was formed.
It's fascinating, really - he even detailed the process in the novel.
This is the first book in the Nova series that makes even any sense at all, or at least has portions I found I could explain to others.
Burroughs fascination with film splicing and the use of tape recorders also marks the era of his writing but opens a door on more of his prophetic visions of how technology would be used in the future.
The last chapter is perhaps the simplest and most straightforward bit of writing Burroughs does, but is fascinating in terms of his perspective on how audio-video tech can influence the world around us.Ultimately I can still only recommend this to the most loyal Burroughs fans.
Deliberately disjointed, hallucinatory, wacky, disturbing and inventive. Burroughs employs a collage technique where different narratives are cut up and thrown together like a salad. I originally read it in the English edition, which differs from the American. Read long time ago.This is definitely my favorite of the works of this talented madman. It may be his oddest. I was gratified to see this posting on RealityStudio (http://realitystudio.org/bibliography...) Perhaps one of Burroughs’ least accessible books, particularly for the uninitiated, Ticket nonetheless provides some surreal montages of words.


Softly wavering between scattered cut ups and visceral marches through post-taboo imagery, The Ticket That Exploded is collage art, profane satire, and deep subconscious phantasmagoria wrapped into a swirling colony of bite sized insanity. There is absolutely no way to describe what the nova trilogy is to people that read mass-market novels or enjoy light reading. This is for closing ones eyes and reading, so to speak, removing one's self from pace and falling through the delusions of junk sick madness and feeling a different kind of physiological attachment to prose. Not meant to be read but experienced.
William S. Burroughs is alive and well and seems to be currently writing for the BBC.I was amazed when I caught a NOVA episode about the cuttlefish's ability to dazzle prey by triggering its skin cells to rapidly change color like a Pink Floyd light show, just like the fishboys. No one can come up with disturbing, half-ancestrally remembered creatures like Bill Lee.
Difficult, clearly, but rewards careful reading. For me, Burroughs is by far the most interesting post-war writer. When I think of the London Literary Mafia, with their circle of fawning literary editors, their cosy review system, and their snobbish exclusion of writers who explore the dark corners of our existence - what am I trying to say ? - Burroughs was a literary genius and his work condemned the London Literary Mafia to their wishy-washy mediocrity.
A completely incomprehensible entry into the Burroughs bibliography, which is a shame because when it is coherent, it forms an interesting story in and of itself.However, it is mostly just Burroughs cut-up insanity, total gibberish likely for the sake of being so. A marathon of tape recorders, semen, fish boys, ect... Would not recommend, personally.
I don't see me ever reading a book as annoyingly bad or as challenging as this ever again. I'm still not sure if it was published as a joke to prove that people will read and praise anything. If so, well played.
OH come on people. Self-indulgent. Masturbatory in every sense of the word.Probably not a best book for me to have read as my first Burroughs. Probably not a great idea to read a book because you like a song that is based on it, anyway.
Really WTF? Moving on.
