https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17337562-forever-too-far
2.5 Stars!•Horrible ending!!•Felt more like Rush and Nan's book than Rush and Blaire'sSUPER FUCKING PISSED!!!!!!!!!!!!This wasn't even like Rush and Blaire's book.Its like NAN THE BITCH'S book.
DRAGGED UP AND OVER THE TOP.
AND KICKER IS, HER DRAMA DOESN'T END HERE.
Its going to get dragged into Grant's first book if not both of his books.
SO its like she's getting 4-5books only about her pathetic insecurity; even after Abbi said she doesn't want to give NAN a book.+We wanted a third book for Rush and Blaire...
'insecurity drama'
4+ RUSH CRUSH and Every Dream Come True StarsI’m not ever letting your sexy ass get too far away from me again.”“How far is too far?”, I asked.
I want you right here beside me...”After a lot of pain, tears and despair, Rush and Blaire are finally together, building a home, a family and a shelter.
Speaking of screw-up family members: Nan, you freaking loathsome, crazy-ass bitch, stop whining and get a life!
I hate you!Nan's bitchiness aside, this book is a wonderful conclusion to Rush and Blaire's beautiful and emotional story.
Rush promised her forever...

Her character became a distraction from rather than an assets to the story.
That said, I LOVED Rush and Blaire and their romance in this book.
I was so please to see the unique and endearing characters I fell in love with in the first book–who I felt went missing in the second–back again in this story.
Other than Nan, I loved getting a satisfying dose of my favorite cast of characters from previous books.
All in all, I really enjoyed this story and its HEA ending.
5 Stars!!! Abbi Glines is one of my favorite NA/YA authors. I love everything she writes! This book wasn’t perfect, there are some things that could have been a bit different that could have made it better, I can see where everyone wouldn’t love it. But I sure loved it! Another Rush book? Hell yeah!  Rush is the hottest of the hottest, the swoonyest of the swoonyest. He’s not perfect, but damn... I just love him! He has proved over and over again just how great he is, and just how much he loves
This book wasn’t perfect, there are some things that could have been a bit different that could have made it better, I can see where everyone wouldn’t love it.
Trying to put a wedge between Blaire and Rush.
Something extreme happens, Blaire just can’t take the drama anymore, and that feeling of never coming first to Rush.
Rush realizes he can’t make Nan a priority anymore (than God!) that Blaire has to be number one- always.
He’ll love her completely because he’ll know how.”  But my favorite part of the book...
For all Rush & Blaire lovers, I’m sure you will enjoy this one!!
DNFSo when I downloaded this baby, I was like.....gimme some Rush! Then about the first 30% of this book I was like... Then in comes Mega Bitch Nan and I was like.... Then at about 40% in, I just plain gave the hell up.... Why, you say? There was no fricking story. Rush was so sweet but he got led around by his balls by Nan. I just couldn't stomach it. Nan's dad is a douche. Nan is a spoiled manipulative bitch. I've got better things to do. Sorry people. This book had just too much drama with ve
DNFSo when I downloaded this baby, I was like.....gimme some Rush!
Then about the first 30% of this book I was like...
Then in comes Mega Bitch Nan and I was like....
There was no fricking story.
Rush was so sweet but he got led around by his balls by Nan. I just couldn't stomach it.
Nan's dad is a douche.
Nan is a spoiled manipulative bitch.
I've got better things to do.
This book had just too much drama with very limited plot.
Sometimes ya just gotta end a story while its still good.....this book felt like one huge afterthought.
Forever Too Far was a WILDLY entertaining read.
It was a bit crazy but hey it was fun!Right off the bat, be warned that Nan (the step-sister from hell) is still pulling her same over-the-top tantrums.
We also meet Harlow who is Kiro’s other daughter “the good one”.Now onto our love story…Blaire and Rush get through a couple of bumps: Rush had to “relearn” the lesson that he MUST answer his damn cell phone when Blaire calls!Rush was outright SEXY in this book!
I asked."It's all too far.
I want you right here beside me...forever."
BLURB -->  Rush promised her forever … but promises can be broken.Torn between his love for his family and his love for Blaire, Rush has to find a way to save one without losing the other. In the end one has to be more important. Letting go isn’t easy.Blaire believed in her fairytale … but no one can live in a fantasy.Her love for Rush and desire to have a family keep her believing that they can find a way for this to work. Until she has to make the right decision for her and the baby. Even i
BLURB -->   Rush promised her forever … but promises can be broken.Torn between his love for his family and his love for Blaire, Rush has to find a way to save one without losing the other.
Letting go isn’t easy.Blaire believed in her fairytale … but no one can live in a fantasy.Her love for Rush and desire to have a family keep her believing that they can find a way for this to work.
BONUS CHAPTER HERE: http://www.abbiglines.com/2013/03/673/Here's what Abbi Glines posted:   "Okay...
I am having to put the epilogue aside and write a "bonus chapter" lead in to book #3.
“When you find your reason for living, hold onto it. Never let it go. Even if it means burning other bridges along the way.” This book made me a swooning mess.When we first met Rush he was an immature man who lived only to fuck around.Two books later and he has changed a lot.Now he has a girlfriend that he is willing to protect from everyone,including his family.Blaire is the girl that gave meaning to his life and now that they are both in love they have to face and outreach all the difficultie

*3.5*
Actual rating: 1.5 very generous starsWhy did I do this to myself? I knew going in it would be a problem and I plowed right on ahead and did it anyway. I should have run away screaming when my friend lent this to me. I should have listened to that little voice inside my head telling me... Sadly, I did not. To me this book was merely a money-making venture. Seriously, this series could have very easily been completed with an epilogue. It would have been nice actually if the author had done this,
Listen, if I find Grant or Woods so interesting I'll read their stories, I don't need or want you taking away from other characters to push your agenda.
Right there in the wedding scene, she actually interrupts it to direct the reader to buy Rush Finlay's song on iTunes.
Yes, there's drama when Nan busts back on the scene but honestly, I hate her so much at this point I wanted to skip those scenes entirely so they added nothing of consequence.
It honestly got to the point in this book where the whole Nan/Rush relationship felt awfully incestuous.
This are one of my absolute favourite series and I urge any contemporary romance fans to read them.Moving on...WARNING: THIS REVIEW WILL CONTAIN SPOILERS FOR BOOKS #1 & #2!*grins**sighs*Sooo, yeh...
*grins and sighs**swoons*Major major major Rush Crush over here.*giggles*Mission accomplished!What is it about a super hot guy going all gooey over his baby and the mother of his child?!
It was just a cute ending to Rush and Blaire's story and it set the scene nicely for Abbi's future books; Twisted Perfection, Woods' book, which is sitting on my Kindle but I haven't gotten around to.
Update: FULL REVIEW-19/06/2013 “When you find your reason for living, hold onto it. Never let it go. Even if it means burning other bridges along the way.”  -RushOk so! Where do I even start with this review. As you all know, I'm a huge Abbi fan...like huge. Massive girl crush on the lady huge! Yeah. And Naturally I had to have this book immediately. IMMEDIATELY! I almost couldn't get internet access to have ti downloaded and I nearly died a thousand deaths, but I got it, I started it, and I fin
Yeah, that's how awesome this book, it's a wonderful ending to the perfect love story.We get our duel narrative again in here from both Rush and Blaire and it was just so fantastic to be back with these two amazing people, that I just simply couldn't put it down.
Abbi has a real knack for introducing new characters and we get a couple of new characters and his brother Grant makes a more prominent appearance in the book which is fantastic, Abbi's secondary characters are all pretty well written and all have apart to play in the book and the lives of Rush and Blaire.
Overall Forever Too Far was a perfect ending to Rush and Blaire.
Minor Spoilers -mature content reader discretion is advised.4 STARS out of 5Genre: New Adult RomanceRiver Joshua Kipling aka CaptainThe only thing I want to know is...
Inquiring minds want to know.
'I knew what it felt like to have a father not want you.
Rush has been playing the father figure for his baby sister for so long that it just comes natural.
*wiggles eyebrows*I like how Glines pretty much (view spoiler)[ let's us know that Grant will not be caught in evils clutches by introducing Harlow as his potential love interest.
I want to know more about her too.
It has been a great ride reading about all their trials and tribulations and seeing them come together and work things out.
Besides Rush and Blaire, I felt like the main focus of this book was family.
I just felt it was too much!Back to happier, and sexier things....I love sexy Rush and his tongue piercing!
I will miss Rush and Blaire but I know we will get tidbits in the last Woods book and of course, in Grant's books....and I can't wait!
A very big and pretty penis,” Blaire whispered.
3.5 starsTo be perfectly honest, I vacillated many, many times as to how to rate this book. Finally, after sleeping on it and thinking about it, I finally settled for 3.5. I wish I could give this one a solid 4 or even a 5 but there were too many things that bothered me. Anyway, onto the review. Let's start with the good first.  Rush and BlaireI'm glad these two finally had their HEA. Loved the first book, didn't care for the second one, and this time, Rush and Blaire had me swooning once again.
Loved the first book, didn't care for the second one, and this time, Rush and Blaire had me swooning once again.
Well, at least, when they weren't doing anything stupid like running off without talking it out with your partner!!(Yes, I'm talking to you Blaire!) Anyway, more on that later but seriously, you guys, I loved (view spoiler)[their wedding especially when Rush serenaded Blaire as she walked down the aisle.
Now, let's go into the not-so-pleasant things in this book...First off, Nan. Enough said.
Second, Rush totally buying Nan's bullshit for nth time and Blaire running off with talking it out with Rush.
^^^^^4.5 Super Sexy...RUSH stars^^^^^[image error] This is the 3rd book in the "Too Far" book series with Rush and Blaire.
I'm so happy Abbi Glines wrote a third book because the ending to the second book wasn't a cliffhanger or anything, it just had a RUSHED ending.
I love this couple so much....Rush grew up alot in this one and he is truly devoted to Blaire.
"This sweet, determined, sexy-as-hell blonde walked into my life and gave me a reason to live."My Rush
I want YOU right here beside me.....FOREVER."

Blaire and Rush are together and things seem to moving in the right direction.
Blaire isn't sure if Nan will finally get what she wants and end the relationship she has with Rush.
●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●“She is everything I want to be."●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●"I love you, Rush Finlay.
Can I just say that Rush was so freaking AWESOME in this book!
It was a good ending for Blaire and Rush.
I anyone whose reading this book is obviously following this seriesand knows Blaire is pregnant with Rush's baby."When she walked into my house the first time and I laid eyes on her I was attracted to her.
Also Nan is super jealous of Kiro's otherdaughter.My feelings towards Nan:This book ends up being a tug of war of Rush who wants to be there forboth of them.
He’ll love her completely because he’ll know how.”"And much much more!!!Every single thing Rush did after that took my breath away!!!!"I was just thinking that my son was going to have the mother that I never got a chance to have.
I think we all would have liked a little less Nan, but overall I am glad that Abbi Glines decided to listen to her fans and write this.
I think it was a lovely ending for Blair and Rush and after it stopped focusing so much on Nan it was really sweet and cute.
Overall, I think Abbi Glines books get better the more she writes them...
If I am in a book funk I know I can turn to an Abbi Glines book to help settle me down and help me move on to the next story.
On the one hand it completely lived up to my expectations and I’m so happy to see Blaire and Rush get their HEA with an adorable little bundle as an added bonus.
On the other hand, something was missing and it took me a while to figure out what it was.
I KNOW, I KNOW **jumping up and down and waving my hand in the air.**  A NAN BEAT DOWN!
Yes, I’m a bloodthirsty bitch and I needed a little more outrage from Rush as far as his sister pulling her usual crap was concerned.
No bueno, Rush.
Please give Nan the figurative bitch slapping she deserves and soon!
Della) I don't know, I just hate how Woods' book turned out and he ended up with Della, don't think she's heroine material and good enough for Woods.There it all started I got so disappointed and then you add the unspeakable Nan/Grant pairing I was like "WTH Abbi Glines"On the positive note here are the things I love about this book..Harlow, Harlow, Harlow!!!!
I thought the petition against Nan was hopeless..thank God Abbi took pity..Grant!
Grant, atleast it is safe to assume you're now saved from Nan..Hopefully we get to see more Rush Blaire Nate in your book..
I felt like Rush finally started taking Blaires side (TOOK YOU LONG ENOUGH) and he made obvious strides in his relationship with Nan, by -at the end - putting her in her place, it was also interesting to see Grant and Harlows perspective at certain points in the book, I was worried when reading the first teaser that Harlow was going to be a problem for Blaire and Rush but she turned out to be a nice friend for Blaire and someone who hated Nan equally.Personally although I thought Kiro was a self indulgent asshole, I felt like Nan brought it on herself with all her shrieking and whining...
I don't like having my fucked up family around."Rush knew that since his dad didn't know about Blaire and he showed up there to see Rush, that it could very well be about Nan.
Rush wants to disagree, but his dad cuts him off and says that both Rush and Blaire should come back to LA so he can get to know Blaire.When Dean asks when the baby is due and when the wedding is.
It's Blaire's first Thanksgiving without her mom and she's happy to have her dad there.Dean tells Rush that Grant had been dating Nan for awhile.
And I know we’ll get to see more of them on Woods and Grant’s books… but I’m going to miss Blair and Rush.
But Rush’s family doesn’t know boundaries and they keep demanding Rush's attention to solve their problems.
>Blair loves Rush beyond limit and she knows that he loves her the same way.
But somehow there’s always something in way and for the first time Blaire want her and their baby to be put in first place.
Half of the book was like a giant epilogue and I loved it.Definitely a series that I’ll re-read countless times.
but promises can be broken.Torn between his love for his family and his love for Blaire, Rush has to find a way to save one without losing the other.
It’s too damn cold.” Rush told his father.Dean finally stopped walking and looked back at me.
Blaire this is Dean Finlay, my father.” Rush said in a tight voice.
“What’s wrong?” He asked turning his back on his father and bending down so he could look me directly in the eyes.I didn’t want to have this conversation in front of Dean.
I’ll meet you back at the house,” Rush said over his shoulder but kept his eyes focused on mine.
To be honest, I think I lost a lot of my Rush Crush after the first book.
He wasn't as cool as he used to be, and he has lost a lot of that original bad boy demeanor I use to find so hot from the first book.
It's been going steadily downhill for me in these last two books, and although he is very lovey-dovey with Blair, it wasn't what I liked about him in the first place.
Perhaps it's from the way he chases after Blaire, but this book sunk my crush for him - big time!
I hate for this series to end.. I've enjoyed Blaire and Rush so much. I would easily enjoy another book with them. Abbi G has a way of making each book fresh. I'm really looking forward to the spin off from this series with Grant ( and hopefully Harlow) and also the next installment of Woods and Della Simple Perfection. I'll definitely be re-reading this entire series again in the future...
“When you find your reason for living, hold on to it. Never let it go. Even if it means burning other bridges along the way.”   Rush:Blaire:I fell right back into the story as if I’d never put the books down. The writing was engaging, you could easily relate to the characters, the story kept you turning the pages, and there was that promised HEA.   When you first looked at meI forgot to breathe that moment marked my hardened heartI vowed never to leave   Rush promised her forever... but promi
Rush:Blaire:I fell right back into the story as if I’d never put the books down.
but promises can be broken.Torn between his love for his family and his love for Blaire, Rush has to find a way to save one without losing the other.
but no one can live in a fantasy.Her love for Rush and desire to have a family keep her believing that they can find a way for this to work.
Rush and Blaire have both come a long way since that first meeting at his house and you can just feel how strong their bond is.
I want you right her beside me… forever.”
Blaire and her gun make me laugh.  That gun has come full circle. *********************************************************Rosemary Beach series is interconnected. The secondary characters from the first series become the main focus in subsequent series. Each series can be read as a standalone.TOO FAR (Rush & Blaire): {#1} Fallen Too Far | {#2} Never Too Far | {#3} Forever Too FarPERFECTION (Woods & Della):{#1} Twisted Perfection | {#2} Simple Perfection CHANCE (Grant & Harlow):{#1} Take a Chance | {#2} One More ChanceSERIES:
  
  
  Cliffhangers. Series complete.
