https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211235.Anthology_of_Black_Humor
Andre Breton the head honcho of the Surrealists on being funny. Now that's funny! This is a great anthology of humor via the eyes of the great lunatic eccentric Breton. Everyone from Swift to fellow Surrealists are here and it's like one large crazy party.
I've always found Breton, after his initial refreshing gasps as kind of a mediocre dude.
His flailing attempt at compiling the anthology in question is appreciated but it falls flat because it is patchwork and of dubious worth as far as representing its subject.
Some inclusions are nice (Poe, de Quincey, Lautreamont) and you'll probably pick up a few new names to chase (Corbiere, for me, when I first read this years ago), but overall the slice-and-dice style of the inclusions and Breton's beautifully written but insipid introductions make the whole thing seem kind of flaccid.
This is a wonderful collection of vintage black humor, perhaps typified in its editorial bent by the inclusion of the Marquis de Sade.
L'humoir noir was one of the foundational legs d'giraffe upon which Surrealism farted and cavorted.
With age, the black humor collected here has largely been surpassed, giving this book the feel of a vital museum piece.
There are writers here who still hold their own (Peret, Carroll, Jarry, Huysmans and Baudelaire, among others), though it must be confessed that modern readers won't find the mad belly-laughs here.
If you have to pick one book with which to bludgeon someone to death, this would be a fine choice.
La antología es bastante buena, no es sólo una compilación de relatos, yo lo veo más como una invitación a la lectura de los escritores que están en ella, la colección de ellos es bastante variada, desde Fourier, hasta Nietzsche, pasando por el Marqués de Sade, Leonora Carrington, y muchos más escritores ilustres. Breton nos lleva por un camino de poemas, cuentos y fragmentos de novelas y ensayos, todos conectados por el nada sencillo arte del humor negro. Muy recomendable.
Пожалуй, самая неприглядная книга, прочитанная мной за последние годы...
То есть, совершенно не приглянулась.
Для начала, мне не совсем понятно, почему Антология в подавляющем большинстве включает опусы психически неуравновешенных, склонных к суициду, хронических алкоголиков и просто выраженных маргиналов, можно подумать, что именно у этой категории и есть самое выраженное чувство юмора.
Мне понравилось определение черного юмора как попытки Сверх-Я человека взять вверх над Я, но на деле, в моем представлении, книга никак это не иллюстрирует.
И в результате, то, что Бретон продвигает как юмор, в моем представлении гнусность невообразимая, после рассказа Никудышный Стекольщик я книгу Бодлера в руки не возьму.
Not what i expected
Vice Magazine: The Early Years.Bréton opens his selection with Jonathan Swift, whose black humour, he suggests, comes from outrage at the injustice of the world.
I don't much like Swift, but I can respect that - a shame, then, that most of the other authors in this anthology share none of that rage.
Uhhh congrats dude?You can certainly see Bréton's selections, so obsessed with death and nihilism, as representative of the trauma of two world wars, but this doesn't make them any better reading.
It's a shame I don't think much of Bréton's selections, because his introductions are often great - though he does lean on Freud a bit too heavily.
"vaulted streaks with its sulphury alb"
Aburrido
No pude admirar a los autores por las mismas razones que Breton y no pude admirar nada de muchos textos.
Creo que no soy bueno con las compilaciones y menos con las que no tienen los textos completos.Aún así disfruté mucho de varias cosas.
Otros más que honestamente no recuerdo del todo me gustaron bastante, pero la mayoría no los distingo y creo que me quedaba muchas veces más impresionado con su bizarra vida que con sus textos (Xavier Forneret y Jarry en especial).
El ensayo al inicio de Breton también es muy bueno y representa una forma fascinante de ver al humor.

Me sería imposible no darle las cinco estrellas a esta antología. Jamás me había carcajeado mientras leía como ocurrió con Alphonse Allais. También disfruté mucho la poesía de Picabia, la obra de Grabbe, los textos de Swift y los de De Quincey. Sin mencionar a los surrealistas que como siempre me han encantado.
Lichtenberg, his hypochondria and hump are welcome to drink tea.
Christian Grabbe is a crack up. Pity he was of questionable ethics, but if you don't read too deep into it, the language is way ahead of his time.
An anthology wherein the biographic information provided by Breton tends to be more blackly comic than the selections he includes.
an essential anthology to understand the dark humor of the Surrealist movement.
Just love it!
If you like black humor is just wonderful. Perfecto para quienes gustan del humor negro.
