https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40189670-josh-and-hazel-s-guide-to-not-dating
Her plan: find a guy with enough guts to take on her Hazy tornado.The one person she knows is (a) out of her league and (b) too mellow to handle her brand of fun is Josh Im. Back in her life after 10 years—he was once her biggest crush and someone she showed all of her cards immediately—she decides if she can’t date him, she’ll settle for second best.
5+ stars!!!
I've read several of Christina Lauren books and I can say with the utmost confidence that this is their best book to date.
It's by far my favorite of theirs.
There wasn't one thing I didn't love about it.
Josh and Hazel's Guide to Not Dating is the epitome of opposites attract.
It's one of the best friends to lovers story I've ever read and I loved it so much!!
I have no doubt it will be one of my favorite reads of 2018.
Hazel Bradford is a bit of a weirdo, and I mean that in the be
I've read several of Christina Lauren books and I can say with the utmost confidence that this is their best book to date.
Josh and Hazel's Guide to Not Dating is the epitome of opposites attract.
It's one of the best friends to lovers story I've ever read and I loved it so much!!
I think what I loved the most is that Josh loved Hazel for who she was, crazy and all.
I laughed and smiled so much while reading this book and it gave me the best heartwarming feels.
Hazel and Josh were both such endearing and fantastic characters and I loved their connection and chemistry.
I've been struggling lately with a lot of heavy life stressors and have found myself gravitating more and more toward romantic comedies and upbeat contemporaries, genres I never would have touched even a year ago.
If you enjoy rom coms with less graphic content and a greater focus on the comedy portion and the feel good fluffies, this one is for you.Unexpectedly, I really enjoyed the tidbits included into Josh's family heritage.
I've been on a roll lately with books including various forms of asian culture, and the Korean traditions expounded upon here were a nice addition in bringing Josh and his family to life.
➳Quirkiness, fun double dates, sexy times that became unexpected, everything combined together to bring two individuals that are beyond different but definitely meant to be... ➳When one starts reading a romance novel by my favorite duo Christina Lauren, one should know that you will forever love the story no matter what. When one reads romance stories, you expect a trope to take into place. No matter what, this new stand-alone filled with fun adventures between two best friends, has every retro
➳When one starts reading a romance novel by my favorite duo Christina Lauren, one should know that you will forever love the story no matter what.
No matter what, this new stand-alone filled with fun adventures between two best friends, has every retrospective of uniqueness when hitting the pitcher at the exact spot of loving Josh and Hazel.
After becoming best friends, Hazel and Josh decide to start setting up double dates with individuals they know, for each other.
Thank you to Gallery books for letting me enjoy this romance novel that had me itching for more love of Christina Lauren.
I loved reading it just as much as the first time, but probably more now.
Actually, I know I love it more than the first time I read it, because my feelings towards it intensified tenfold.
This book is literal happiness.
Characters so good, so pure and so alive in my head, I couldn’t get enough!————————————————WTF is this cuteness that I’ve just read?!
I mean, I’m overly happy.
I want to find me own Josh (plus a dose of every other fictional character I’m obsessed with, in him!)This was such a delight to read!
Had such an awesome time buddy-reading this with Karima!
ARC provided by Simon & Schuster in exchange for an honest review.  “The world seems full of men who are initially infatuated by our eccentricities, but who ultimately expect them to be temporary.”  Most of you know that I’m a pretty big fan of Christina Lauren!  Autoboyography  is now one of my favorite books of all-time. And friends, I really enjoyed this book and it made me so unreasonably happy! Josh and Hazel’s Guide to Not Dating is set in Oregon and is honestly one of the cutest frien
Josh and Hazel’s Guide to Not Dating is set in Oregon and is honestly one of the cutest friends to lovers stories I’ve read in such a long while.
- Doctor, Korean (Yeah, named Jimin, smart marketing because BTS Armies are going to love him with their whole heart), and currently in a long distance relationship that isn’t working.And these two’s paths have constantly crossed since college, but fate has truly brought them together when Hazel attends her best friend’s BBQ, only to realize that Josh is the guy who she has embarrassed herself around since college.
THIS WAS SO GOOD!!I told myself I wouldn't read anymore Christina Lauren because I thought Roomies was a bit bland and not up my alley, but this one just sounded cute so I broke my own rule and WOW I'M SO GLAD I DID THIS IS A NEW FAVORITE OF THE YEAR!
She reminded me of Jess from New Girl, which is my favorite show of all time because I love her character so much.
I just love how the characters in Christina Lauren book will encounter a problem in the relationship or with sex and literally say, "Hey, let's talk about this" rather than avoid each other childishly.
I've always enjoyed romantic comedies at the movies, but I've never really been a fan of them in book form. But sometime over the last year I found the writing duo that calls themselves Christina Lauren. I was absolutely wowed by  Autoboyography  (see my review) last year, and then earlier this year I fell for  Love and Other Words  (see my review), and that will be one of my favorite books of 2018.Who is this man that I've become?I don't know, but after reading their newest book,  Josh and Haze
Josh, on the other hand, is a physical therapist, who craves order and calm."'I realize that finding the perfect person isn't going to be easy for me because I'm a lot to take,' she says, 'but I'm not going to change just so that I'm more datable.'"When she and Josh meet again 10 years later, they know they aren't a suitable match romantically, but each grows enamored of the other as a friend.
Is life without Hazel (or Josh) the life they want?"'But if you changed your mind about something like that,' Emily says, 'I think that's the one thing that could dim her light.
3.5Fun, fluffy friends to lovers to soulmates story with a bit of an edge. Hazel first me Josh in college when she propositioned him at a frat party and then proceeded to puke on his shows. They have some embarrassing run-ins afterward, but it isn’t until 10 years after college that they are reunited. Hazel is a lot to handle--she’s loud, a little weird, oftentimes says the wrong thing, and fully embraces those she loves. Hazel is aware that she’s different and not everyone can handle her perso
Hazel is a lot to handle--she’s loud, a little weird, oftentimes says the wrong thing, and fully embraces those she loves.
Hazel realizes that Josh’s rigid personality makes them a bad romantic match, so she decides the next best thing is to become his best friend.“When I meet someone I love, I become an octopus and wind my tentacles around their heart, tighter and tighter until they can’t deny they love me just the same.”The two friends decide to help one another find love and go on a series of blind double dates.
While I knew where things were headed the whole time, Hazel’s character kept me invested in reading.
“Josh and Hazel’s Guide to Not Dating” sounded funny and sarcastic - like something I would be interested in, and so I just had to see what all of the fuss was about.I gotta give this one credit: I listened to the audiobook in my car and there were several moments where I was laughing out loud hysterically - stomach aching from giggling so much.
Thanks to all of my Goodreads friends who recommended this so highly (Melissa, Larry, Berit, Melisa and Hollis, to name a few).
This would have been a full on 5 star read had it not been for the dramatic/unnecessary turn the plot took in the last quarter 🙃 although despite the weird ending, I did love the characters SO MUCH and their chemistry was just A+++++. But tbh I am so conflicted on how to rate this bc that ending was JDJSHSKAKSISJAJSJ WHY
As somebody who is too concerned with what everyone else thinks, I really need some Hazel in my life and in my personality...
Well he wasn’t too bad either...😉This was probably one of the absolute best friends to lovers books I have ever read...
josh and Hazel begin setting each other up on blind dates....
I mean we’ve all been on bad dates, so this part was so tremendously relatable and a lot of fun!Also really loved how important family was in this book...
josh’s family was equally fabulous, I loved how accepting they were of Hazel....
this is THE book of my life, plz excuse me while i hug this book to my chest for the next 10 years.
Unique, a breath of fresh air, she’s the one you see laughing uncontrollably at something not so funny, she’s the one that loves crazy things, she doesn’t care how out there she is, she just lives life happily, for her.So flash forward years later when Hazel is at her best friends BBQ party and comes face to face with Josh, whom she hasn’t seen in years and happens to be her best friends brother....So what happens when both have made it known that, yes indeed we aren’t compatible and could never date????
Because I can't help but not rate a Christina Lauren book 5 stars! This one was wayyy too cute and just hilarious. Such lovable, flushed out characters, it's like coming home. That's the only way to describe their writing. You're laughing one moment and then YOUR HEART IS SO BIG A FULL OF JOY YOU JUST WANT TO BURST! Perfect weekend read!
Though this story was nowhere near cute as Autoboyography or touching as Love and Other Words but this was light and fun.Josh and Hazel met first in the college.
While Josh is happily dating someone, Hazel is single.
To bring him out of misery, Hazel starts setting double dates for Josh and herself.
Things went downhill for me from there.While Josh is a lovely characters, it is Hazel that stands out here.
They gave them freedom, let them fly, and were with them when they fell to take care of them.
I haven’t laughed out loud at a book this hard for a long time.
I absolutely flew through this book - there’s nothing like a good romcom to break up all the heavier reads.
Hazel, a highly eccentric and oh-so-funny woman, is going down as one of my favorite characters of all time.
I loved these two and their relationship and their dialogue had people looking at my funny because I kept laughing out loud!Recommend to readers who like a good laugh and don’t mind some steamy romance!Thank you to Gallery Books for my advance copy.
5 starsSuch a fantastic story, this story was so addictive and I wish we could have more.I loved Hazel and Josh so much, the make the story special.For one more time Christina Lauren delivers a unique and original story.I fall in love with the story and everything about Josh and Hazel, their awkward moments,their cute and sweet moments and the slow burn between them was something else.I laughed with them a lot.This book make me have a smile on my face most of the time.If you are looking for a sweet story with a fantastic characters.
5 STARS  Sometimes your lack of filter kills me,” he says. “It’s not even like you lack a filter; you lack a funnel.”  Oh my gosh! I loved this book! If you're looking for a fun, quirky, put-a-smile-on-your-face-and-keep-it-there rom-com, this book is it! I was immediately hooked from the first page and stayed glued to my kindle until the end. It was the most fun I've had reading in a while! Josh and Hazel's Guide to Not Dating was a refreshingly different take on friends to lovers and I loved e
Josh and Hazel's Guide to Not Dating was a refreshingly different take on friends to lovers and I loved every adorably quirky page!
I can’t believe I’m encouraging this conversation, but you were telling me about your gynecologist snubbing you and I’m actually curious to hear how it turned out.” “So I stopped in the middle of the gymnasium and smiled at him—not my courtesy smile, but my real one—and he just walked by.” “Maybe he didn’t see you.” “He definitely saw me—and don’t get me wrong, I run into guys all the time who’ve seen my vagina and pretend not to know who I am.
*****FIVE STARS*****{ARC Generously Provided by Author}I know I’m drunk, and I know it’s Josh Im—the blueprint for Perfect, who should never want Hazel Bradford—but when it’s done, and he goes still over me, breathing heavily into my neck, I choose to melt into that sublime blur of pleasure, the way I used to think it might feel to live in a cloud.Christina Lauren have once again, created a story that I have fallen head over heels in love with!
To say I loved this book is an understatement, and it came into my life exactly when I needed it.Christina Lauren is an author duo who only get better with every new release.
They’ve cemented themselves into a favorite author spot for me, and I know they are automatic one click authors.Josh and Hazel are characters I loved equally, but for very different reasons.
I loved how Josh got Hazel and accepted her, never wanting to change her.
He’s more a stoic type, but the kind that will quietly be beside you through everything.This book is going into my best of the year list!
This is a romance that takes place in Portland, Oregon (which is another thing I loved.) It follows Hazel Bradfurd and Josh Im. They've known each other since college and she's embarrassed herself inf front of him a handful of times over the years.
I mean come on, she's an elementary school teacher from Portland, Oregon, and she has these intense feelings for her best friend Josh (kind of like with Nick in the show).
I mean the whole premise of this book is that Josh and Hazel become best friends and then they start setting each other up on blind double dates, and some of the dates are absolutely hilarious.
Classic Christina Lauren, and a boatload of fun!
Honestly, super fast and enjoyable (except for the end.
to the end I screech "hell no" from the rooftops bc no thanks).
Some of the jokes didn't land and the whole thing was a bit on the predictable side because there's no way I'm *that good*, but ultimately I had a nice time and that's really all I can ask for at this point.ALSO, as a certified New Girl obsessed human, I can confirm that Hazel Bradford is basically Jessica Day. Maybe a little wilder in some ways, but I am confident that they both brake for birds and DEFINITELY rock a lot of polka dots.
regardless, if you like New Girl check this thang out.
It’s now ten years later and they meet again in surprising circumstances but this time become fast friends.
I’m a fan of friends-to-lovers stories and this one is best in class.
When his romance falls apart, Hazel goes on a mission to get him back in the game and becomes his fiercest protector and friend.
I loved their relationship as best friends and how it evolved, slowly without guile or subterfuge.
Both of the narrators captured their characters’ personalities (though the male version of Hazel was quite a bit off).
4.5 StarsAre you looking for a rom-com?Are you looking for a book that makes your face hurt from smiling?Are you look for completely unique yet relatable characters?Then Christina Lauren are your gals. In this ridiculously funny opposites attract story, Hazel and Josh are friends turned sometimes lovers who think it's a great idea to set each other up on blind/double dates, all the while not realizing their scorching attraction to one another.   “I always thought I caught you in . . . a phase.”
In this ridiculously funny opposites attract story, Hazel and Josh are friends turned sometimes lovers who think it's a great idea to set each other up on blind/double dates, all the while not realizing their scorching attraction to one another.
“Apparently you’re just like this.” “I feel like I have a lot to apologize for,” I admit, “but I can’t be sure I won’t be constantly exasperating you, so maybe I’ll just wait until we’re elderly.”Half of his mouth turns up.
“I think what I liked was being someone’s person.” Hazel’s fingers come to rest on my wrist, and I blink up again to catch her reaction.
4 / 5  ❤What an adorable and sometimes steamy read — and can I just say how much I love that Josh is Korean? Asian men are so handsome — I’m just saying. Similar to my last read novel, I also picked this one up on a whim. But I think I should start doing that more often, since I’m noticing I enjoy my “random” reads more often than my planned ones. Look at me being all spontaneous — but let’s be honest, I probably won’t stop planning my reads. I’m too much of an organization freak.And that was s
But I think I should start doing that more often, since I’m noticing I enjoy my “random” reads more often than my planned ones.
If I’d read the little description on the back of the novel, I would have called everything that happened in the book (the romances, the so-called twists and turns).
Therefore, even though I did end up calling everything, it was still a fun read, — what can I say?Definitely not a life changing novel, but one I’ll remember, Josh and Hazel’s Guide to Not Dating is endearing, romantic, sometimes steamy, and includes just enough humor to make it a perfect pick-me-up read — which is what I was looking for.
This is an adorable love story about Hazel and Josh, who met in college when Hazel threw up on his shoes.
We know this because the chapters alternate between Hazel and Josh’s point of view.What I loved about this story is that Hazel and Josh are friends first, then lovers, then eventually, both realize they want more than friendship with occasional sex.
What I didn’t love is the reader is TOLD about four hundred thousand times that Hazel is quirky and zany and that’s why relationships never work out for her and why she can’t possibly be right for rule-abiding Josh.
A solid upright low-key person who balances all of Hazel’s uniqueness.
Together we get a humorous story of “friends” who set each other up on double dates because they’re just not right for each other.
They have the unique ability to create live-out-loud characters in Josh and Hazel that just endear themselves right to your soul.
Josh + Hazel’s Guide to Not Dating is a funny, quirky, sexy book that you just have to experience.
This is one story you will definitely fall in love with.* advance copy received for review considerationfull review - https://amidlifewife.com/josh-hazels-...
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThis kind of reads like Christina Lauren took the plot of one of Mariana Zapata's friends-to-lovers (or willful-denial-to-lovers, as I think of them) stories and replaced the heroine with a manic pixie dream girl. Josh Im and Hazel Bradford have known each other since college. Josh comes from a close-knit Korean family, is very conservative and down-to-earth. Hazel, on the other hand, sees nothing wrong with dancing in the middle of a field
I thought Josh was cute and even though Hazel's behavior was a bit too Amelie for me, I did like the message that men only want manic pixie dream girls that fit into their fantasies - any sorts of other quirkiness or unconventionalism is unwelcome, especially if it threatens their masculinity.
So I thought that was a good message and thought that maybe I could stomach Hazel's manic pixie dream girl tendencies if she was allowed to do it on her own terms and not for a boy.The problems come halfway through when Hazel and Josh start setting each other up on hilariously bad blind dates.
