https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419302.When_Love_Awaits
You know, most Johanna Lindsey books I read would get an extra star if the last 1/3rd wasn't always the H and h deliberately misinterpreting and non-communicating about Random Dumb Shit and having Psycho Mood Swings from minute to minute.This one was quite better than the usual, though. No Malorys in sight! Woot!
I tried, but sadly, JL just isn't for me :(
I just had to add a review to this one; even though, I'd read the book at least a decade ago.
Moreover, the H Rolfe is probably one of my favourite romantic heroes of all time.
He's this battle hardened knight with little time to stop and smell the roses; yet falls ardently in love with the wife he married as a tactic to ensure peace for his lands and people.
Rolfe 'Black Wolf' D'Ambert is a handsome man and turns heads wherever he goes; but remains faithful to his wife - even when she's being less than accepting of his romantic overtures towards her.
4.5 starsI loved this book. It was awesome. Really enjoyed it.
Foarte interesantă cartea!
I'm okay with BIG MISUNDERSTANDINGS, maybe even two if the writing's good, but this book was nothing but misunderstandings.
I know I normally hate these types of books - meaning, brutish, yet handsome hero, a great and terrible misunderstanding, forced marriage, a live-in mistress, a bitchy stepmom...
Now, that is sexy.Lady Leonie is forced to marry Rolfe, the Black Wolf, under the orders of the King.
Not realizing that his bride was brutally beaten for refusing to marry him (because of some ridiculous attempt to maintain her pride by wearing a veil) or that she did not have a good image of him to begin with or that she is completely gorgeous and so his type, they start their shaky marriage.
The peasants hear her, and since they are very loyal to her start wreaking havoc on Rolfe; minor incidents but enough so that he wants to take action.
Lady Leonie refuses to marry him at first, but her step mother takes action, and has one of her loyal servants beat her until she is black and blue; so that she will consent to marry him.
From the moment that they first kissed, he sensed that there was something different about Leonie, and knows that there is a growing passion developing between them.Leonie, is a amazing woman and was very aptly descripted in When Love Awaits.
(Akhirnya cuma kasih 1, karena toh gw ga suka Secret Fire, dan ini lebih parah dari Secret Fire)Ga heran gw picky banget kalo menyangkut HR..Ga semua sih, tapi paling males tipe cerita beginian, pake main mistress2 segala, walau gw tau emang keadaannya kayak gitu pas jaman medieval, tetep aja hati kecil gw (ciee) ga setuju..Dan sorry aja kalo gw prefer genre paranormal romance, at last pada setia semua tokoh2nya, walo jalan ceritanya aneh.
;PBukan berarti ga suka HR, tapi paling ga gw udah tau mana pengarang HR yang emang bagus ceritanya dan mana yang ngga.
Oh,I finished this book!Wait,I did,right?Seems that I am not sure.It would have been a super book if not for the fact that on the last page (view spoiler)[we see that the mistress lied,lost the baby,the hero and heroine make up (I think,could not be sure) talk about their love (kind of) and the heroine is pregnant (but we never see her tell) (hide spoiler)]So,call me crazy but all that crammed in there was like being pushed down a kiddy water slide. It just isn't done. Bad author, bad!
Don't try to make out the heroine is smart by having her be her own steward and discover underhand dealings regarding the accounts, and then make her completely oblivious to the evil stepmother and conniving other woman.And barely any of these misunderstandings were talked about at the end and cleared up.
Introduced literally pages before the end, it just seemed so unnecessary and pointless.
I can think of quite a few people who were introduced and never seen again and played no part in the storyline.I guess I need to make allowances since it was published in 1986.
Incredible with its soap-opera feeling, exciting with the intrigues and natural with the slow blossoming love between the spirited Leonie and her new husband, the fearless Warrior Rolfe d`Ambert whom everyone calls the Black Wolf, "When Love Awaits" proved to be a Fast-paced and Entertaining historical romance set in the medieval period."I hate you," Leonie whispered, the words sounding less than convincing even to herself."Then I will love you despite your hatred."He kissed her again, and the traitorous flame leaped within her, drawing her to him despite everything.Forced marriage, hate-ful villians, light humor and wonderful romance-Everything in one package!
This is absolutely my least favorite Johanna Lindsey novel of all time.
The hero has to be some kind of idiot to not realize that she is not ugly but beaten and he is so chauvinistic- way more than the alpha males you usually read about - in his attitude and downright cruel in the way he treats his heroin.
PLUS there is an awful lot to do with a mistress in this book.
Truth me told, I got a third of the way through this book and wanted to rip it in half I was so pissed off.
I wasted a day of my life reading this mess.
The entire book was frustrating to me.
The hero and heroine had problems - for the entirety of the book (no, really, the entire book is just that)- which could be easilyresolved if they would just talk to each other.
And these problems, which were literally simple misunderstandings caused by an OW who the hero didn’t care a whit about.
Especially the heroine, ughh, I wanted to shake some sense into her - she simply refused to communicate with the hero.
The hero was okay, trying to do right by everyone, I guess 🤷‍♀️.
Too many and irritating misunderstandings. The story is quite OK but predictable, the main characters are stupid, the first 2/3 is boring, the last 1/3 got the 2.5 stars.
So, like any sane person would do, i clicked on my lamp and picked up the first book on my nightstand, and figured that i could read a few chapters and continue the next day.
But, I believe i may have found a book that i quite like, because at exactly 6 o'clock in the morning, i finished the whole thing.
One by a man they call the "Black Wolf", and one who happens to be the grand-daughter of an Ear, Leonie.
So, like any other man, who thinks they know everything, suspects Leonie of ordering her serfs to make trouble for the Black Wolf.
Re-read July 2012.Re-read January 2016.Re-read June 2018.
salah satu novel JL favorit gw...suka sama co nya en ce nya walo gw lupa siapa namanya hehehe...tapi recommended banget buat di baca secara terjemahan gpu bagus banget...
Un final muy tonto y malo para todo el tira y afloja durante toda la historia.
He makes one fairly big booboo right at the beginning which definitely makes Leonie think the worst of him, and primes her to believe his bitchy former mistress' lies.
(hide spoiler)]The thing is that you can see why they believe what they believe - Rolfe's big booboo (view spoiler)[ trying to seduce Leonie while not knowing who she is (hide spoiler)] doesn't exactly scream 'faithful husband', and Leonie's cold attitude doesn't exactly say 'loving wife' either.This is not a Big Drama sort of book.
(view spoiler)[Fortunately, they were mostly present at the beginning and end of the book and easily dealt with, except for the hero's ex-mistress, whom was present throughout the book.
(hide spoiler)] A lot of the problems did stem from poor communication and misunderstandings caused by some lies told by ex-mistress and the heroine's stepmother.
The heroine acted a bit childish at times, always wanting to run away from her husband, which got annoying.
The hero was too forgiving, but that just shows how much he loves his wife.
The love scenes weren't too detailed, which was fine, because it fit well with the flow of the story.
Aunque no soy muy fan de este tipo de lecturas ya que me molesta bastante el machismo de estas historias, el libro me ha gustado. De lectura simple, fácil y rápida. Tengo unos cuantos en casa de esta autora.
Not my favorite JL book. Rolfe, the hero, is too gullible, believing the lies and deceptions of his former mistress. The heroine, Leonie, is both gullible AND stupid. If they had been willing to sit down and talk honestly together, this would have been a far shorter book.
This book, written in 1986 makes use of the misunderstanding and miscommunication plot device to much and not enough time having the characters build a relationship and slowly begin to trust each other.
The book was too much about Rolfe dominating Leonie and bending her to his desire and will and Leonie's resistance and not enough about them getting to learn and love each other despite their fear and mistrust.Overall, this was an alright effort in an old school genre of romance writing.
Love in an Arranged Marriage in the times of King Henry IISet in England in 1176, this is the story of Lady Leonie, sent away by her father to her dower keep because he didn’t want to be reminded of her mother whom he loved.
Leonie knows Rolfe only by his bad reputation, but she will not defy the king.Little does Rolfe know, he is about to get more than he bargained for.This is a fun romp through the time when Henry II ruled England.
The story reflects Lindsey’s research into the era and what life was like at the time.
Johanna lindseys have never failed me but i guess theres a first time for everything. what ruined this book for me was the heroine. to dam stuborn and prideful and stayed quiet for things i would have yelled and raved about. Holy shit, did i hate her. There were so many opportunities she could have taken to clear up the entire situation and she didnt use any of them. Completely Dissapointed in this Book.
The book has all the common elements which you will find in a boring cliche historical novel.A brute determined hero, a strong heroine, a stepmom, an absent parent, a mistress, confusion, tragedy, a lonely heroine, attraction, sexual tension.Yet it was so beautifully woven that it would grip u till the end.A good read.Its 5* but not going on my fav shelf just because of too much misunderstanding.But that's expected from Johanna Lindsey's books.
I don't know why I read romances when one of my least favorite things is something romances specialize in: conflicts that could easily be solved by the two characters HAVING A FUCKING HONEST CONVERSATION. That situation accounted for about 85% of this novel.(also, since I read these on a sketchy Russian website, I don't usually get to see the covers, but OH MAN, THIS ONE IS 1000000% PURE 80S CHEESE AND I LOVE IT.)
I read it 6-8 year ago(2-3 gimnazjum/secondary school) and from what I remember I loved it but to keep it fresh I will read again soon and we'll see :)
About starting huge misunderstandings and falling for every lie, complot or trap regardless of how obvious they are.And nothing is really solved until the very end, because even if something is found out or they do realize some truth, it doesn’t matter, they still go on like before or start a new misunderstanding.It took them more than half the book to have their first intelligent thought and rightly conclusion about each other or their situation and it changed nothing.Her motto throughout the whole book was “I will not speak of it!
