https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132336.Body_of_Evidence
I was such a gruesome kid...
in that I loved to read this series.
Blood never bothered me, and the more psychopaths you throw at me, the happier of a reader I am.
I think I learned some anatomy from this book.
:)The descriptions are vivid, not for the faint-hearted.
Hits close to him when it's about a writer being murdered.
Almost decapitated.
The MC, Scarpetta, is a challenging character.
She's so honest and raw, you have to respect and love her.
But she's also got this side of her where I'd be a little scared to be her friend.Very complex mystery.
Very intense read.
The first book was good, this one's even better!
This book kept me at the edge of my seat and I have learned to become genuinely interested in every character.
Definitely worth reading especially for CSI fans like me!Quotable Quotes"Some people simply want company.""I didn't know what I wanted.
Maybe I never had.""The older I got, the more I was of the opinion that love can be experienced in many different ways.
There is no right or wrong way to love, only in how it is expressed.""You can never be real sure who's all right and who ain't...
It's real hard to know these days, that's for damn sure."

An enjoyable book that sees Kay Scarpetta looking for the killer of a young author. The author was working on her memoirs, but the potentially explosive manuscript goes missing, and several high profile people are invested in finding, and hiding, it's whereabouts. As the body count starts to climb, Scarpetta finds herself under siege and scared. I found this book to be easy to read and highly entertaining. A worthy addition to the series.
This series is what I call a "guilty pleasure".
Not at all high-brow, but easy to read thrillers with some mystery, and I have to admit that I enjoy the gruesome details about forensic pathology.
Being an engineering type, I like to know the details behind things, how things work, in particular when it comes to problem solving or investigative techniques.I do love the character of Kay Scarpetta; she's a strong, smart woman who is also attractive.
She makes me nuts sometimes when she does risky things that her superior brain should be telling her not to do, but then there wouldn't be a story, would there?
I believe everybody has books that are near and dear to their hearts, like comfort food that they cannot help but love and embrace despite some issues and flaws.For me, this Kay Scarpetta series on the whole falls into that category.
There are a lot of qualities that make her an interesting and an alluring character as well as makes me want to be like her, and I cannot wait to revisit this series and see how she entices me down the road.
Scarpetta and the police being piecing things together, discovering a deeper back story related to her current piece of work and a collection of letters she wrote to a mysterious ‘M’.
After a related murder, Scarpetta realises there is more to the story than meets the eye.
Great character back story strengthens the foundation of both the novel and the series, still in its infancy.Cornwell does a fabulous job with all aspects of the novel.
A great series for Reichs’ fans to try, while waiting for the next novel.
Any fan loving a great murder mystery with a hands-on medical professional will surely eat this up.Kudos, Madam Cornwell.
Definitely enjoyed this one more than I did the first and can see how this series would get better as it goes. Loved that the mystery kept me on my toes and I didn't quite figure out whodunit until towards the end. Will definitely keep reading these!
3.5 stars. Really good.
So I liked the book but I think that has more to do with the characters than the actual story.
The two main things are that yet again Scarpetta’s office is made to look bad with her superiors and the media and the her romantic partner is a main part of the mystery.
The mystery is really two stories in one and one story almost overwhelms the book when the other story seemed to have more impact on the outcome.
The narrator of CJ Critt did an excellent job with the characters I loved Marino’s voice the most.
Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Virginia Chief Medical Examiner is again in the middle of mysterious murders and personal vendettas!Lieutenant Pete Marino summons Scarpetta to the house of shy fiction writer and murder victim, Beryl Madison.
She didn't suffer much pain after bleeding out from having her throat cut.Kay's is preoccupied thinking about the forensic clues in the Madison killing as she returns to her house when she hears her telephone ringing.
It is Mark James, the love of life who got away after college.
There was a contract signed by Madison eight years ago promising to never write about Harper, but she has gone ahead and finished a book about Harper after all.
3.5 stars. Not nearly as good as the first in the series, but I know this series gets better. I don't think I ever read this one, though. There were some interesting twists in this, definitely not what I would have guessed. A solid entry in the series, but without the crackle of the first, Postmortem. I'll definitely continue with the series.
Lackluster, especially after the introduction of Al Hunt (no, not that Al Hunt) and his mentally ill friend Frankie. An utterly tedious denouement, with the reveal of the killer's identity the most soporific moment of the novel. Much dull bloviation about Key West and its gay population. A lost opportunity to make (view spoiler)[Mark James, Scarpetta's ex-lover, the killer (hide spoiler)].
“It’s like in your place, Doc. No such thing as preventive medicine.
Can’t do a damn thing until after the fact, when there’s hard evidence.
Like a dead body.”-------“Various emotions are associated with colors.
It’s a legitimate basis for color schemes chosen for public places, hotel rooms, institutions.
You won’t find many psychiatric hospital rooms decorated in blue.
Black is morbid, ominous, and so on.-------“I’m too old for change,” she explained.
“I’m too old to pursue good health and new relationships.
It is easier.”------Attraction turns to obsession, love becomes pathological.
When his secret love is not returned, he becomes increasingly obsessed.
I used to teach this installment of the Scarpetta series as the example of the "mystery" genre in a novels class.Basic Plot: a writer of historical romances is found murdered, and Kay Scarpetta is on the case again.Considering the fact that I taught this book, I remember it fairly well, even years after reading it.
I like to read clues through a story and figure things out with (before if possible) the main character, and this book didn't allow for that.
This 2nd book in the series allows the character to grow a bit from the first volume and readers also get to see more of her back story.
Why read: Reading the series.What impressed me: Body of Evidence was definitely a topsy-turvy mystery.
Kay's not knowing friend from foe in her personal life adds a lot of tension and intrigue to the story.
And either Cornwell does much better in this second book with laying off the excessive explanations, or I'm just getting used to her writing style.What disappointed me: Nothing stood out as disappointing.
Was it really that extreme in the early 90s when this book first came out?Recommended: Yes. Even better than the last.Continue series: Yes. I'm definitely becoming interested in Kay's personal life.
A solid murder mystery that, thankfully, does not rely too much on the forensic science element to further the plot. Cornwell is a terrific writer, and I enjoy her Kay Scarpetta character more than most detectives from other series. The book is fun and light, never disappointing but never reaching the upper echelons of great storytelling, either. Great for a long airplane ride, but not a book you're likely to remember well a couple years after you read it.
This was my first Patricia Cornwall and I enjoyed the quality of writing but overall I think the detail was overwhelming and I'm not sure I will be reading another PC just yet. I have to acknowledge that the story did lead you down certain routes and the truth was revealed. There was a lot of dialogue and protracted evidence and technical descriptions which I found a little laborious.
Need to be reviewed.EDIT: I actually prefer the later books to the early books. I think her writing got stronger.Mariano was so unlikeable in the early books.
Recommend.Second Read: Kay Scarpetta, chief medical examiner of Virginia, gets involved in the case of a brutal stabbing death in Richmond of romance writer Beryl Madison.
(He is not killed in it but near it.) She can't bear to drive it after his death, so she trades it in for a nearly identical car.In the early novels Scarpetta is the Chief Medical Examiner for the Commonwealth of Virginia and works in Richmond.
Madison apparently lived with Harper and his sister for many years; and there are rumors that the book she was working on was autobiographical, which would cause a sensation in the writing world.However, Madison was also being stalked; she fled to Key West, then returned to Richmond some months later, promptly being brutally murdered in her house mere hours after her return.
No novel was found, only two photo-copied letters she had written while in Key West to someone named “M.” In the course of her investigation Scarpetta makes the re-acquaintance of an old flame, one whom she loved to distraction much more than he loved her, and finds herself being sued by an entertainment lawyer for having “stolen” the novel Madison had been writing.
Anyway, Scarpetta is investigating the murder of a well-known novelist who has returned from the Florida Keys where she has been hiding from someone who keeps threatening to kill her.
The night of her return she inexplicably opens the door to the murderer who does just that.
The plot thickens as her former boyfriend, a lawyer, appears on the scene worried about her safety and to prevent her (he says) from crossing swords with a crooked entertainment lawyer (redundancy?) who desperately wants the victim's last manuscript.
Enough about the plot.
Decent but pretty routine addition to the series. Two brutal murders linked together, her ex making an unexpected return, a celebrity lawyer out to ruin her and some small red herring to keep you guessing. Started well and then tailed away. Still - love the heroine so will be sticking with the series.
Author, Beryl Madison flees Key West when a terrifying message is scratched on her car.Kay Scarpetta pursues the case of, "Who murdered Beryl Madison and why."What a great series.
The action is exciting, the plot is moving, and the characters are intriguing.
Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Kay Scarpetta is a likable character.
Her high-tech forensic skills enable her to collect a body of evidence.Even though Beryl is murdered, her life lives on.
During the investigation, it's like she's there.
I loved the way the author weaved the real-time with the case.
I look forward to the next book in the series.
This mystery takes place over a twenty years, or so, period.
But as more mutilated bodies keep turning up it soon becomes obvious that thing are not as simple as first thought.
Well written, good plot and enough characters to love and hate.
What more can you ask for?As much as I enjoyed this book, for me, it fell a bit short of the first book Postmortem but it was still good enough to give it 4 stars.
3.5 - enjoyed! Review to follow.
It looks like a psycho stalker did the deed, but the missing manuscript has an unscrupulous and greedy agent complicating the investigation in order to get his hands on the valuable pages.Cornwell’s writing is fast paced, technical enough to be realistic to those familiar with law enforcement and psychiatry, but also understandable to the lay person (although I’m not sure why the ME is getting so involved, it’s been my experience that they mostly limit their investigations to autopsies and evidence found on the body).Unlike a lot of female protagonists in crime novels, I can’t fault Kay very much with putting herself in dangerous situations, but again, she does get much more involved with the case than one would expect from someone in her job description and much, much closer to the killer than necessary.I mentioned this in my review of the first Kay Scarpetta book, Postmortem but it bears repeating: if your lengthy and intensive investigation leads you almost to the point where you know who/where your killer is and said killer shows up at the protagonist’s home/work/favorite restaurant, etc.
It starts with homicide, then Scarpetta is attacked by journalists / lawyers / random guys who just want to make a fuss (always because she's a woman on an important position, and she is never helped by anyone), then another homicide happens, then Scarpetta gets personal with the case (why?), and then she is threatened herself by the attacker.
Marino wanders around and makes snide comments, Scarpetta on one hand says she's strong and doesn't need the care, while on the other hand has a victim personality, something from her past pops up...
There isn't enough going on in the labs to justify reading further.
A good murder mystery needs three key components: a sympathetic victim, a fast pace, and an intricately woven web of clues for the reader to unravel right along with the book's crime solving entities.
What is perhaps Body of Evidence's best asset, though, is the fact that despite Kay Scarpetta – Virginia's chief medical examiner and the novel's narrator's – intelligence and scientific training, its her intuitiveness and her heart which eventually help her to solve Beryl's murder.
Although a crime novel told from a medical examiner's perspective could quickly become detached emotionally, there's nothing cold and sterile about Scarpetta's methods, this book, or Cornwell's abilities as an author.
Though most murderers are loose in the head, writers of this genre must make the person interesting and amuse the readers on the workings of a criminally insane mind as Cornwell has done in her other books; in this one her characterization of the killer fell flat.One thing I am starting to feel as a reader of this series (though I did not read the books in order) is that the focus on Kay Scarpetta has become somewhat tiring.
It may be understandable as she is, after all, the hero, the protagonist of this series, but it maybe good to give her a break and make the character see that not everything is about her.
