https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7671409-p-rgup-hja-uus-vanapagan
Both, to varying extents, have a temper which flares at particular events, but a day-to-day stoicism (Andres can be quick-witted, but he nonetheless believes in his thankless work of farming and improving a swamp and reads the book of Job frequently; Jürka can appear simple-minded in his devotion to manual labour, which he believes will earn him salvation).From plugging a few synopses into Google Translate, it's evident that Tammsaare did write about other scenarios; it just happens these two rather similar ones have ended up in English.
Essentially, God has decided that man has reached a point where no one is able to live a good enough life to go to heaven.
Since this means everyone is going to be sent to hell, God has compassion and decides to close Hell.
So, Satan is sent to Earth as an Estonian farmer.
Satan, as depicted here, is a dimwitted gullible behemoth of a man whose attempts at living a decent life are thwarted by a well meaning but ineffectual priest, rigid bureacracy, and a scheming landlord who scams Satan at every opportunity.
Twinges of existentialism. I like the allegory, but I felt it did not delve as deeply as it could have.
Kaasahaarav ja rohkete emotsioonidega teos. Annab ka hea aimduse kunagisest eestlaste elust ja mõtteviisist. Rohkelt mõtteainet pakkuv. Loetud Tammsaare teostest lemmik!
Geniaalne
He becomes convinced that if he works like a dog that he will be righteous and earn salvation for himself, proving that Man is capable of it and just chooses not to, so that way he can keep hell open and the truly righteous people can still earn salvation.
Unfortunately for Satan, named Jürka on earth, his landlord and neighbor Ants, is a truly selfish, bad man.
He has numerous blunt, simple conversations with the pastor and Ants about his goal and people don't understand.
Tammsaare's satire exposes the real social and religious hypocrisy that people struggle with.
Satan, cast into the life of an Estonian peasant, wrestles with a struggle for salvation through singleminded work, and though his stated goal is to open the way for fresh souls to arrive in hell, he nonetheless experiences many of the most beautiful aspects of the human experience: deep and loving family bonds, true compassion, and even the tragically beautiful pain of the loss of a loved one.
Minu jaoks oli see esimene Tammsaare teos ning olen vägagi meeldivalt üllatunud. Millegi pärast olen alati arvanud, et Tammsaaret lugeda on väga raske ning see ei meeldiks mulle, kuid selle raamatu põhjal muutus mu arvamus vastupidiseks. Raamat on nii eestlaslik. Lugejale pakub teos palju mõtlemisainet ega ole kahtlemata lihtsate killast, kuid see teeb asja vaid paremaks. Märkimata ei saa kindlasti jätta pessimistlikku tooni, mis, tõsi küll, on samuti eestlastele omane. Raamat, mida loeksin uuesti ning mis võiks kõigil eestlastel kuuluda must-read raamatute hulka.
Great novel by a classic Estonian author from pre-war era, actually my favourite of his numerous books. Mysticism, symbolism, satire, well depicted Estonian archetypes. At first glance a comical story, but is it really?
Vastik sisu, aga väga hästi kirjutatud.
Satan heads down to Earth to earn salvation. A lot of farming ensues, also he is swindled left and right. An uneventful book about an entire lifetime.
