https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133497.The_Whale_Rider
They seek a leader for the next generation of their people, a male heir who is the reincarnation of the original whale rider Kahutia Te Rangi, who is able to converse with the gentle giants of the sea and restore balance to the earth.There may be a leader right before their eyes although Koro Apirana holds strongly to his traditions and does not realize that the future may hinge on his great granddaughter, Porourangi's daughter Kahu, named for the tribe's ancestor Kahutia Te Rangi who could speak to whales.
I read this in my self-proclaimed New Zealand November, 2015.
It is a very readable intertwining story of the modern day characters with the mythology of the gods of New Zealand and the ancient whales within their own societies and rituals.
The Maori in this novel are active in teaching their native languages and passing down traditions.
This was great for me in my year of reading Oceania because he talks about the differences between the three countries and the treatment of the native populations.
* 2.5 *I am having a wee moment of picking up New Zealand books that I should have read a long time ago and that have co-incidentally been made into films.
Maurice Gee's  In my Fathers Den  was my most recent foray and off the back of that I decided to read Witi Ihimaera's novel  The Whale Rider .
Ihimaera has written quite a long list of books and short stories but  The Whale Rider  is probably his most well known due to the 2002 film of the same name.
A gem that glistens. Beautiful. A contemporary rewriting of an ancient Maori legend. Its messages speak of the strength of women, but even more importantly of the oneness of the past and present, the rational and the irrational, what we understand and don’t understand and of all life on earth. This is young adult literature for adults.The audiobook narration by Kiwi Jay Laga’aia was well done. There is music throughout the recording, but it is the same snippet repeated over and over again. When will we get audiobooks with varied music and numerous songs? Anybody listening out there?
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. Country: New ZealandIn all honesty, this was a peculiar little book. I both liked it, and didn't like it. I'm saying this in the sense that while I was reading The Whale Rider, I wasn't bored out of my mind. However, at the same time, I can't say that I actually enjoyed myself.So in a way, this book just was. The story was interesting in its entirety and the fairytale quality of the entire novel. There are two stories between which the narration shifts:
It's a wildness in the method and narration, rather than one in the actual events, but ultimately leads to a very fairytale-ish world of collision between myth and reality.This, however, can also be confusing, as I wasn't sure how I'm supposed to take the story: utter fiction?
Mythological characters are rarely very deep and well-developed, so in a book which is unsure about its allegiances with reality, expectedly, the characters were not really three intentional.Lastly, while I enjoyed the stories about Kahu, I was rather bored with the whale narration and the general repetitiveness of the book.
Add a girl power element and mythology involving whales and I'm enticed.Unfortunately, my shackles are still shaking as I think about how important it is to put well written books into children's hands in order to turn them into lifelong readers.
They had put a rope round the whale's rear flukes and were getting angrier and angrier with the woman, manhandling her away....We came to the rescue and that was the first fistfight of the day.....""There were several beefy guys loading a dismembered jaw onto the back [of a truck] As we approached we saw an old man scuffling with them.
This book was amazing. The Māori culture was really interesting, and I love how Kahu and Nanny Flowers are constantly trying to fight the iwi's sexist, traditional ways. As a kiwi, I feel that this book has an amazing way of telling one of our many stories- all the Māori legends and myths we should know but don't. Witi has a unique way of writing stories, and it's captivating. 5☆
Beautifully written and such vivid imagery. I listened to an audio book edition narrated by Jay Laga’aia and it was just such a beautiful thing to listen to. I was swept up in the story from start to finish.
A beautiful story about the Maori culture, with a touch of magical realism, everything I love. Plus it's well-written and a quick read, I highly recommend!
It was an interesting book it showed how the females couldn’t gain traditional leadership of the Maori people but Kahu (short for Kahutia Te Rangi], an eight year old Maori girl who was a member of the Maori tribe of Whangara, New Zealand, kept trying to learn the ways of a leader and wants to become the chief of the tribe.
But when hundreds of whales beach themselves and threaten the future of the Maori tribe, it is Kahu who saves the tribe when she reveals that she has the whale rider's ancient gift of communicating with whales.The main learning that i took from this book was that if something has been done a certain way for a certain time, it doesn't necessary need to be kept the same way.
This book alternated between ancient mythology and the modern struggle of a young girl trying to take her place in society.
The mythology portions tell the story of the whale rider, who was a long-ago ancestor who rode a giant ancient whale to the land where the Maori tribe of Whangara, New Zealand live.
The young girl is Eight-year-old Kahu.
So, the parts about the mythology and the internal narrative of the giant whale were not the most compelling passages to me, but I liked Kahu and her struggle to be accepted by her grandfather.
Her persistent love and optimism shone brightly through the old chief's scowl.
Loved this. Teared up and everything. It's a beautiful retelling of an old Maori legend, and the themes are transcendent. The dynamic between Kahu and Koro alternately made me smile and broke my heart, and I adored Nanny Flowers. Now I want to watch the movie.
Έχω δει την κινηματογραφική μεταφορά αυτού του βιβλίου αρκετές φορές, μπορώ να πω ότι είναι μία από τις αγαπημένες μου ταινίες.
Στο τέλος αυτό που μπορώ να πω είναι ότι υπάρχουν αρκετές διαφορές, αν και το πνεύμα του βιβλίου διατηρείται αναλλοίωτο.
Ένα ιδιαίτερα συμβολικό έργο που πραγματεύεται πολλά θέματα, όπως την απώλεια της ξεχωριστής ταυτότητας απέναντι στην ομογενοποίηση, το ρόλο των γυναικών, τη σχέση του ανθρώπου με τη φύση, τον αγώνα του καθενός για να εκπληρώσει το πεπρωμένο του.
And the triumphs were equally brilliant--as fluid and swift as the feeling evoked as the whales sliced through the sea.I would like to wonder out loud though as to the general designation of this book as children's literature.
In the primary library in which I work, we shelve it as "J"...generally, chapter books for grade school and middle school readers.
I haven't done any research yet into this question, but I wonder if Ihimaera intended for The Whale Rider to be a children's book or if this was the publisher's marketing idea?
The BBC World Book Club interviewed Witi Ihimaera and used one of my questions!
Prose that reads like poetry, soulful and enigmatic. Myth and magic intertwined in the present day. Bold, compassionate, colorful people. This is a really powerful story which was translated so beautifully on film. "I am not afraid to die." I've always had a soft spot for pure hearted heroes who sacrifice themselves for their community. This book has become so special to me. I can't wait to revisit it again and again.
Immersive writing that draws on close connections between Māori mythology and family. Loved the focus on harmony with the environment, home and identity. Jay Laga'aia, the audiobook narrator was fantastic too. Full review here: https://paperwanderer.wordpress.com/2...
Phenomenal. Incredible prose, breathtaking execution, a story with soul to it. I don't remember the last time a book brought tears to my eyes because it was so beautiful. Highly recommend to everyone.
4.5 stars “La Balena e la Bambina”  è una piccola ma splendida fiaba Maori in cui mi sono imbattuta per puro caso la scorsa settimana mentre curiosavo tra gli scaffali della bibloteca locale. Non avevo nemmeno mai sentito parlare del ben più celebre film che ne è stato tratto nel 2002 e che ha riscosso notevole successo al botteghino: vincitore del Toronto International Film Festival e del più noto Sundance Film Festival, ha fruttato alla sua interprete principale, la giovanissima Keisha Castle-
Ma tutto sommato, meglio cosi: forse non avrei apprezzato pienamente il libro.La vicenda ha inizio quando, in un piccolo villaggio sulla costa neozelandese, viene alla luce Kahu, nipote del capo tribù Koro Apirana, la cui unica colpa agli occhi della comunità è quella di essere nata femmina… Da sempre, infatti, la tradizione Maori stabilisce che a prendere le redini della tribù possa essere solo un erede maschio, come maschio fu il capostipite della tribù, Paikea, il quale, secondo la leggenda fondativa, approdò sulle coste neozelandesi dopo un epico viaggio sul dorso di una balena e lì fondò il villaggio di Whangara e la sua comunità.
Only 120 pages long, it’s a richly layered story dealing with several major social issues: family relationships, gender discrimination, generational differences, racial prejudice, loss of the cultural identity of indigenous tribes, ecological conservationism and modern man’s disconnection from his spiritual self.Kahu is a young Maori girl who, from the moment of her birth, had a deep connection with her great-grandfather Koro Apirana, a powerful Maori Chieftan.
I really felt for Kahu (or Pai) especially, and now I will look up to her as a favoured character.
It was interesting how the folklore of Pai weaved into Kahu's family, although I take the stories lightly as I have faith only in the one true God.I'm in the process of learning the Maori language, so I liked how Maori words were incorporated into the book, as I had the chance to catch onto some new words.If you read this book, you will have a greater love and understanding for culture and diversity, and hopefully appreciate your brothers and sisters more if you haven't before.
It's back there, and very useful.The story is good, if a little...oddly told.
That said, it has some very beautiful parts in it, and I think it's a good book to have kids read.This is going to sound like sacrilege, but...in this case, I liked the movie better--I would give the movie all five stars, if I were rating it here.
It's probably because I saw it before I read it, and also because I'm not a kid, so for me the story went a little too fast and skated right over things that, in a book for adults, might have meant some meaty drama.
Man over-fishes his seas and out of his greed changes the balance in nature, particularly in this case with regard to whales.
Many men choose to kill those who beach themselves rather than trying to turn them back into the sea to save them.I found Kahu an enchanting heroine who adores her grandfather, Koro.
Only a son, he believes, can inherit the Maori legacy of communicating with whales.
Of course, the story challenges this belief as Kahu proves to be an out standing young woman in every way.
Of course, there is more but I have probably already revealed too much.
I listened to the audiobook wonderfully narrated by Jay Laga'aia, and would recommend the audio as there are Maori phrases and music that add to the enjoyment of this story.
I love creation stories, and this one retells an ancient Maori legend juxtaposed with the present day lives of the Maori.
Kahu is a young Maori girl who has the misfortune of not being born the boy her Great-Grandfather desperately wanted.
This story switches back and forth between her struggle to find her place in the world, and the reminiscences of the ancient whale of legends.
While written for a young adult audience, this one is a lovely read for adults as well.
Maori chieftain Koro's hopes are dashed when Kahu, a great granddaughter, is born as she is next in line for the title.
Girls are nothing in his eyes and he needs a male to continue his line as the chief of his tribe.Through the years Kahu tries to win his love but to no avail, yet she is the "whale rider." She has inherited from the original whale rider himself the ability to communicate with the whales.
Will she ever win his love?
Maori words and tradition are throughout this novel set in New Zealand or as the native people call it Aotearoa (the land of the long white clouds).
Kahu is the eldest great-grandchild of Kori, the chief of the Maori in Whangara, New Zealand.
Unfortunately, Kahu is a girl and therefore Kori has no interest in her because he is only focused on finding the next leader of the tribe.
Kahu showers Kori with love and admiration despite the fact that he continuously dismisses her and he continues his classes for the the males in the tribe and searches for the "one." This is a heartwarming story of a detrmined little girl and her quest to find her way into her great-grandfather's heart.
I read this as a part of my attempt to read more New Zealand literature. I saw the film years ago and can’t remember a lot about it, but I do remember my mum being very moved by it. I was probably too young to fully understand what the characters were experiencing. What I missed from the film I undoubtedly found in the book. This book was the perfect length and I was able to read it in one sitting. Kahu was the most delightful heroine and Ihimaera’s storytelling was spot-on.
I did not like this book at all - at times there was no meaning in the text and there were no parts that were merely amusing or entertaining. Although it claimed to be a story of the history of the Maori-New Zealand tribe, many parts of the book were irrelevant to the main plot.
The Maori tribal leader, Karo, is upset when the great grandson he hopes for turns out to be a girl who they name Kahu.
Karo is crushed by the fact that he will have to find another successor because a woman is not suitable to be chief in his eyes.
It's a heart wrenching story that's great for young girls especially.
It was a five star film for me.
The book didn't have the same power for me, but there's a reason it inspired such a great film.
It's a great story that's definitely worth reading.
Except that in this case, there was an eldest daughter” (p16)-	Traditional burial of the birth cord is discussed (p20-21)-	Whales call from the sea, saying “Let it be done” (p23)Summer-	The section is subtitled Halcyon’s Flight; can be used as an adjective to be idyllic, peaceful time; in literature an Asian/African kingfisher; as a noun is a mythical bird who breeds in a floating nest at sea at the winter solstice, charming the wind and the waves into a calm (p25)-	“The elderly females assisted the younger mothers, shepherding the newborn in the first journey from the cetacean crib” (p27)-	Rehua, Kahu’s mother, dies (p29)-	“It was surprising how closely Kahu and Koro Apirana resembled each other.
I think the thing I liked most about this book was the way it blended the natural and supernatural pieces of the story into a coherent whole. Overall, it was a quick and easy read, and I definitely liked the storytelling style. I kind of wish I knew more about Maori culture and myths, but I enjoyed the book even though I think I probably would have appreciated it more if I'd had a better sense of the cultural background.
