https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209574.The_Heart_of_the_Buddha_s_Teaching
Buddhism teaches a four-stage cessation of suffering called “The Four Noble Truths”: 1) Acknowledge suffering in our lives and around us, 2) Recognize the origin of suffering (how it came to be), 3) Understand that you can stop suffering (or be transformed by it to rise above it), and 4) Practice The Noble Eightfold Path which is essentially right thinking and right action in all its forms.There’s nothing to be afraid of here.
If you're looking for an erudite, comprehensive overview of mainstream Buddhist thought, "The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching" is an adequate choice, but prepare for a long, hard slog.
Unfortunately, most of the book isn't told from his personal point of view— it's an academic rundown of major Buddhist ideas (and endlessly listy— sure, you've heard of the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path, but maybe the reason you're not familiar with The Seven Factors of Awakening and Twelve Links of Inderdependent Co-Arising is because all of the other people who heard about them died of boredom before they could pass on those truths.) If you're looking for more approachable Dharma teachings, try Pema Chodron.
Every time such a seed is watered, it will manifest on the upper level of our consciousness, and we will suffer and make the people we love suffer at the same time.
The practice is to refrain from watering the negative seeds in us...."We also try to recognize the positive seeds that are in us and to live our daily life in a way that we can touch them and help them manifest on the upper level of our consciousness, manovijnana.
Continued practice means trying our best not to allow the negative seeds in our store consciousness to be touched in our daily life, not to give them a chance to manifest themselves.
I think I love Buddhism, but please, please, please, don't make me take a test on it.When I decided I wanted to know more about Buddhism, it was because of my developing interest in yoga.
First of all, I find no need for faith in yoga or Buddhism.
I practice Buddhist principles, I feel better.
Catholic - although baptism receives you into the church, you get a few years, then you have to start confessing sins.
In Buddhism too little faith.This much is clear - Buddhists are more peaceful than Jews, Christians and Muslims.
One of the more difficult books I have read, to the point where I am not sure I got out even a tenth of what Thich Nhat Hanh put into it.
But with every morsel of their baby’s flesh they ate, the young couple cried and cried."I was pulled entirely out of the book by this.
Mostly I found the examples like this (and there are many) to be deeply weird.Thich Nhat Hanh is a Vietnamese Buddhist, which is one of many traditions of Buddhism, and there are passages about the Vietnam War, and one of his students being killed.
Lucid and helpful with great presentation of Noble Eightfold Path especially.Thoroughly enjoyed reading it and am incorporating parts of it in my meditation.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1935728.htmlA book by a prominent Buddhist monk outlining key teachings of Buddhism.
I started off rather liking it as an approach to mindfulness and how to process suffering and the good things about life.
But after he Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path, I started to get a bit irritated with the constant discovery of new lists of important spiritual things, from the Two Truths up to the Twelve Links of Interdependent Co-Arising; it seems to me that over-describing the undescribable is fundamentally a mistake.
Anyway, it is still the most interesting book by a Buddhist on Buddhism that I have read.
This book by Vietnamese Buddhist monk Thich Nhat Hanh goes into a lot of the background from the later-life teachings of the Buddha such as the Lotus Sutra, so in a way, it's more about what the Zen school of Buddhism or Mahayana sects in general teach.
What's good though is he doesn't just teach from one set of Buddhist teachings, but presents teachings from a wide body of books which makes it feel a lot more inclusive.
this is a very useful book for me, helping to clarify exactly what is the difference between religious and philosophical texts, what I like about Buddhist thought, what I learn, what I generally do not note.
as far as difference: ethical assertions within a metaphysical superstructure, ontological arguments, referring often to texts or authorities or stories, is religion.
some beautiful poetic insights, some accessible metaphors, which you can extend according to your knowledge...so for a serious student of the religion, this book rates higher, but for me, whose interest is philosophical, it is perhaps interesting to read how Buddhism has developed, how a Buddhist monk explains it, but does not convince me to assume Buddhist thought on any practical level beyond recognizing the basic lists, the ideas of lust, hatred, delusion, the inescapable reality of transience...
I have been savoring this book for some time, and was lucky to have it with me while trapped on planes and in airports and on an overnight detour to Detroit--Hanh's teachings didn't quite transform the ordeal into great spiritual practice, but they did vastly improve the experience.
When we do, we have real peace and joy." It becomes clear in Hanh's writing that he surely has found real peace and joy, and his life is a great embodiment of the teachings he presents so lovingly here.
I think this may be the most interesting book on Buddhism I’ve read in a while.
It covers a lot of ground, and maybe it’s one of those books that one really needs to re-read before getting it completely, and I think I will do that in some time.
These two parts seem a bit at odds with one another.On the whole, I liked this book because how informative it was about the evolution in Buddhism, and the different schools, and so on.
I don’t think I would recommend it as the first book for anyone interested in Buddhism, but it is a good one.
"Mutluluk bireysel bir mesele değildir."
This has been a recurring thing for me since I was about sixteen years old: I get interested in Buddhism, read a couple of books, but then I quell the interest by convincing myself that suffering and angst are conducive to good work (just look at the arts!), that it's good to feel bad sometimes, and I leave it alone.
Thich Nhat Hanh tells us that Buddhism is not about not suffering per se.
I rather felt that these other basic teachings required a book of their own because they are more in depth, but still, it's good to know where to start looking deeper now.
And have for as long as I remember being alive, wanted to stay away from religion, any religion.
Reading about Buddhism, I truly recognized myself, and the way I live my life inside the faith and practises.
What I like most is the here and now way of living.
That is when my interest starts to fade, and I find myself walking away.
Love, peace and an understanding of oneself and the world around.
What I wish for is that one day all religions can strip itself from any labels, and simply LIVE FOR LOVE.
This is an excellent book to read to understand the core fundamentals of Buddhism.
I liked the fact on how Thich Nhat Hanh emphasizes the need for depth in life - developing it by living the values, the Buddha taught and practised.
The only aspect which could have been better is that while many sections do have good anecdotes from either Thich N hat Hanh's own life or the Buddha's, there are a few sections which are entirely theoretical and dry.
Overall, an excellent introductory book to the essence of the Buddha's teachings, and well worth a read.
I first read this book about five years ago.
I found it both heavy going and life changing.
Returning to The Heart of Buddha's Teaching, I was pleased that I was able to understand more but it is still overwhelming.
And although each item made sense, the overall feeling was indigestion but perhaps that's what happens when a whole tradition is being covered in ONE book.
Or perhaps I need to read it a couple of times more before I can get the full benefit?
there is a lot here. sometimes it feels like too much. take small bites. chew. repeat.
Thich Nhat Hanh is probably the best communicator of Buddhist ideas I've come across in my admittedly limited amount of reading on the subject.
Don't let the concision of this book fool you, it's a surprisingly comprehensive and nuanced look into all of Buddhism's central teachings alongside practical applications and illustrations for how to implement them into your life.
I'm still a long way away from self-describing as a Buddhist, but I think just about everyone who comes into contact with this religious philosophy could really benefit from its central tenets.
Still the best book on Buddhism that I have read.The first two sections are the best, providing a nice overview of the ideas at the heart--as it were--of Buddhist philosophy.
He is of the opinion that Buddhist practice should emphasize joy, not suffering--suffering is something to get beyond; and to emphasize the immanence of nirvana, rather than putting it off for the after life (or after lives).He provides textual support for his take.
Any philosopy worth its salt should be a living one, and if Thay is adapting Buddhism, all the better.There are parts I worry about, though.
Adding this one to the list of "books that have changed my life." This is an excellent, clearly-written explanation of major tenets of Zen Buddhism. My only complaint is the use of terms without definitions. For some unfamiliar terms, definitions are provided late in the text, while others go completely unexplained. Overall, though, a lovely and important read.
I first picked up this book when I was going through an identity crisis in the seventh or eight grade. Many books have made me think, many books have changed my opinions before, but the Heart of the Buddha's Teachings has been the only book to change my life. I remember the very day when I read a passage from this piece and it was like a great awakening.
A thorough and very easy to digest review, in depth, of the teachings of the Buddha. Thay delivers here...illuminating the path with clarity.
I think that this is a good book for those new to the subject and those that are more advanced in their study of the subject.
For beginners, I think that it serves as a good introduction as it crams in a lot of information and cites where people can study the summarized conceptions in the book in a more in-depth manner.
Probably the best introduction to the trappings of Buddhist thought and methodologies; simultaneously instructing the reader in the way to be a mindful and useful human being. Written by a man who is fully awake and filled with metta. Everyone should read this book. It should be taught at school. The world would be so much better for it.
Thich Nhat Hanh's writing is gentle, compassionate and joyful, each page was filled with inspirations for me to be a kinder person every day. You don't need to be a Buddhist to read and understand this book. Thich Nhat Hanh teaches us how to look deeply into ourselves and others, and reminds us that joy can be found in the here and now, we just need to pay attention to find it.
The overview I was looking for. Thich Nhat Han’s voice is beautiful and insightful and accessible. I will need to read this book many more times to fully appreciate all it has to offer. I look forward to that.
budda has some great teaching on how to turn your suffering into happiness.
The perfect book to get back into practicing Buddhism, but also a great and inspiring read for non-religious purposes.
Ugh, that subtitle. I'm definitely not here for the subtitle, but for philosophy and history. You are not a self-help book. You are not.
Read this in like 2010 when I bought my first yoga mat. When Buddhism was still a coping mechanism, a defense strategy, a theory not a practice. Who am I kidding. I'm always the same person I have always been.
