https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23577.Lies_the_Lying_Liars_Who_Tell_Them
It makes me wonder if people like Franken and Ann Coulter aren’t in this for money, as championship of polar values gets them easy praise and tons of cash.
I found the epilogue, about the Democrats taking Congress and righting all the wrongs of the country to be the most amusing part of the book.
When we actually saw how little the Democratic Congress (which I helped with my vote into office) did, it was like one final nail, heavier than all the others, driven through this paperback.
I would recommend this book to intellectual conservatives so that they simply have more ammo to disassociate themselves from the neo-cons. I actually respect true conservative thought and this administration was not it. At all. And Franken gives a funny, sometimes enraging, flogging of the neo-con media.It's a great book. I think, however, it preaches to the choir since the person who would read this is a liberal to begin with in the first place.And he DESTROYS Ann Coulter and Bill O'Reilly...this, in and of itself, are good things...
This very funny but extremely serious book goes after the deliberate falsehoods perpetrated by the right-wing on "liberals."As you may know, the Fox Network went after Franken for trademark infringement because he used the phrase "fair and balanced." The judge threw out the suit as completely ludicrous and made several trenchant comments about the inability of the Fox executives to recognize satire when they saw it.Harvard University gave Franken a fellowship to basically do whatever he wanted, but demurred at his idea of having Harvard students write his son's college application.
Franken finally hit upon the idea of having a group of students do research for his book.
You may think he's too moderate but he's pretty clever at calling bullshit on the right.3) There was some really hilarious controversy surrounding this book when it came out.
Bill O'Reilly got in a fight with Al over this book in a heated exchange at a major Book Expo.
The details of this fight are hilarious.
What happened is, the judge told the Fox representatives in court that the were full of shit and in over their heads and the case was I think literally laughed out of court4) His sense of humor is very unique
The advantage here is that Al plays all the quotes by the people he's bashing (with a little more context) and he himself is just very funny how he reads.I know the subtitle's supposed to be a joke, but this book is WAY MORE fair and balanced than anything by bona fide Ass-Holes (capitalized) like Bill O'Reilly and Ann Coulter (they are the Zeus and Hera of assholes).
I don't think it's a good book for converting far-righters, but it makes a lot of good, logical points.
It's also heart-felt and apolitical at points.
(something Bill O'Reilly can't ever accomplish).
After reading and hating Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot, I was still somehow drawn to open up and read this book.
As for a review of the book, my best summary would be: blah, blah, joke that isn't funny, blah...half truth...blah...out of context quote...blah, blah...political attack without evidential (or even logical basis)...blah, blah, blah...say the same thing ten different ways, none of them right...blah, blah, blah, mean-spirited, bomb throwing...blah, blah, still more jokes that aren't funny...blah, blah, blah...the end.
All that said, if the book had been funny, I would have looked past the flaws as I don't look to Al Franken for political insight.
Al Franken is clever but he's not this funny in person.
Team Franken, discussions with God, exposing the lies of famous conservatives, and particularly, the field trip to Bob Jones University - all classic material.
No wonder he's running for Senate...and all the more satisfying that he's going for his old friend Paul Wellstone's seat.I couldn't muster big stars for the follow up - The Truth.
The Truth was hard hitting and bitter.
I enjoyed it, I learned from it, I share his bitterness, but it was missing the playful touch that made Lies such a great read.
What Franken claims is that he's a comedian, in contrast with the apparently serious political commentators he skewers.
I laughed out loud at "Loving America the Al Franken Way," a grab bag of facets of America, rated on a good/bad/weird scale.
In the same chapter, responding to the claim that liberals "train our children to criticize America, not celebrate it," he says, "To a four-year-old, everything Mommy does is wonderful and anyone who criticizes Mommy is bad.
And it is funny, sort of, that Franken's target (in this case, Sean Hannity) seems to miss it.
I found some of the later chapters sad or discouraging--and funny at the same time.
You know how some books act as landmarks in your life, either as a reader or as an acutal liver of the world outside the window and the page?
Hannity used to smoke cigars- this is true, now- and he enjoyed this lesiurely activity until one day his tiny son came up to him and asked him why daddy smokes those smelly things- aren't they bad for you?
Al Franken is to be commended for exposing Fox Television and its supposed news commentators in this book which might be profitably read alongside a viewing of the documentary film, Outfoxed.
Since then, however, thanks to the aforementioned film, a Canadian Broadcasting documentary on the same subject and some study of film clips of Limbaugh, O'Reilly and others available on the Web, I see his point and would now get more from the book.
Still, the book did point me in the direction of checking out his allegations and discovering that they weren't as exaggerated as I had at first supposed.Incidentally, why haven't the professional associations of editors, publishers and journalists come out against Fox and its supposed journalists?
He takes the same material that a hundred other writers have gone through - the hypocrisy of the media, the deliberate distortion of the truth, the greedy, grubby little schemes of the Bush Junta - and makes you laugh at them.It's really, really depressing because, despite the laundry list of reasons why no one on FOX News should be trusted, it's still the most popular network.
He takes some decent (but not perfect) books and authors and twists their words so he can call them liars.
He pull on or two unimportant things out of their books and claims that they are wrong and therefore liars.
Just a little web research shows that many of his supposed lies, really aren't.
And many of the things he accuses others of are incorrect.
Very troubling after he claims to have several "researchers" helping him.And on one or two occasions, when confronted about incorrect items in his book, he retorts that it was a "joke." Sorry, not funny.
Even his obvious jokes aren't that funny.Don't bother.
Lies and the Lying Liars Al Franken It seems the only way to be a liberal partisan is as a humorist. I'd like to think that every book he sold brought Franken closer to the senate. Hey, maybe that means Jon Stewart will run for senate?Library copy
this book is an excellent account of what most americans are too lazy to figure out for themselves - that the republicans and their cronies are liars.
and not just your typical political liars, i.e. how every politician who has ever walked the face of the earth is a liar.
i'm specifically talking about how their lies corrupt the very fabric of american society, turning neighbors against neighbors, promoting a culture of ignorance, creating a wave of petty and empty patriotism that has created some of the world's most troubling problems, and thus lowered america's economic, military and political standing throughout the world.
Funny...outrageously funny....then sad, almost depressingly sad...then funny again once you realize January 2009 is almost here. Word to the wise, don't listen to the audio book while trying to get some sleep after your toddler has gotten you up for the third time in the middle of the night...it is so funny you won't want to fall asleep. Oh, and also, don't try to listen to this when your toddler is awake...unless you want him thrown out of preschool when he repeats some 'colorful' language.
His modus operandi was to research the conservative talking head's claims either through Lexus Nexus or by simply calling the people involved in the story and finding out what really happened.
He refuted several things that the Right came up with regarding the funeral, that it had been a politicized event by the Democrats, among other canards and that it was planned to attract attention.
It makes sense and I had always suspected that her views and methods had to be similar to what the family used and I was right.
It’s filled with real live actual journalists, committed to informing people.
In this pathetic excuse for a universe, they are actually considering giving the seat to Fox, which is not and never was, and, barring the intervention of benevolent deities or aliens, never will be, a news organization.
People who watch Fox: Believe that WMDs were found.Therefore watching Fox is actually less informative than watching Gilligan’s Island.
Toast requires science.) A friend of mine suggested that the large number of people that consider Fox to be a valid source of news and information gives it journalistic legitimacy.
The premise of it, in my opinion, is that Al Franken and his Harvard-financed rag-tag team of hand-picked Republican haters (hereafter called TeamFranken) set out to show that any popular political pundit who criticizes Democrats has lied, and because of this we should never believe anything they say.
Toward the end of the book though, TeamFranken breaks from their theme and starts in on why the GOP stole the election, why Clinton was the greatest President, and why all things liberal are way better than all things conservative.
Also Bernard Goldberg does a much better job of pointing out problems with the MAINSTREAM media being liberally slanted in his book than TeamFranken could even begin to refute.
Had I read this book upon its initial release, it might have made me want to pull my hair out in anger.
Reading it now still made me want to pull my hair out, but at least that feeling came with a smug sense of “I told you so.” This book was written for a very specific audience.
Still, I think Limbaugh and friends should require their fans to read this book; if only to try and discredit it (which of course they wouldn’t be able to do).
I will say that this was interesting and I jotted down quite a few things to look into more on my own.
I may lean more toward Franken's side of the debate, and I think that he did a heck of a lot more research than, say, Ann "Here Comes the Hate-Spewer" Coulter has ever done, but I'd like to read a bit more on some topics.
I think he asked for us to take quite a bit of this at face value, stating that he'd done the research, and it's not that I don't trust him, but heck, the book's about liars.
If Al Franken wanted to make a point, he failed.
I did like reading about what was happening in early 21st century politics.
I was still in high school when all of the events in this book were happening, and was only just starting to pay attention to the news.
I feel like I have a more firm understanding of pre-9/11 American politics, so I don't at all regret reading the book.I still think Al Franken is a liberal apologist and an extremely biased writer.
With the rise of universities in the 13th century, the Manuscript culture of the time led to an increase in the demand for books, and a new system for copying books appeared.
The books were divided into unbound leaves (pecia), which were lent out to different copyists, so the speed of book production was considerably increased.
The system was maintained by secular stationers guilds, which produced both religious and non-religious material.[16]Judaism has kept the art of the scribe alive up to the present.
A sofer "scribe" is a highly respected member of any observant Jewish community
Political satire at its most biting, Al Franken has the drawn-out dead pan punch lines of Jon Stewart in a written medium more conducive to expansion on things like historical context, political backlash, and a chance to reflect on his own role in the public arena - a task he accomplishes in ways sometimes a bit too self-aggrandizing, but most often earnest and simple.
His conflicts with O'Reilly and Coulter got a little too personal - there were a couple of chapters that felt like he was trying to get some free therapy out of writing out some rage - but they were always funny, and there was always a salient point to the telling, which is more than I can say for Coulter or O'Reilly.
Good show, Franken.
Hilarious and devastating.
Here is a funny treatment of serious topics.
The title, alone, won my heart with its teasing reference to Fox News' "Fair and Balanced" tagline.
Says who?
Says Fox. Their smug and shameless self-promotion reminds me of the old Firesign Theater routine for George Tirebiter, political candidate.
In a political ad, Tirebiter assures voters, intoning seriously: "You can believe me, because I never lie, and I'm always right."I'd love to hear Bill O'Reilly use that line.
It couldn't be any more pompous than his contention that he is "fair and balanced".
Al Franken does a pretty good job of avoiding most of the bogged-down liberal rhetoric and concentrates more on pointing out the lies of Fox News and Neo-Conservative pundits commit on a daily basis.
In journalism, the greatest sin is to lie.
Unfortunately, most news channels, papers and political shows lie constantly; not just tell "half-truths", but outright lie.
I'm aware Franken is a liberal and I will never subscribe to liberal politics, Al Franken at least does a good job explaining that if we want to talk and debate about politics, we should at least get them from trusted peer-reviewed sources, and Sean Hannity, Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilly, Bernie Goldberg are the last people on earth you would ever want to get political information from.
I wish I could say this book was as funny as it was depressing, but considering the ceaseless shit storm he had to work with, it is a credit that he managed to make it funny at all.
There's a lot of interesting information if you don't mind being constantly disgusted with the state of American politics, which I can not mind anymore because it is my everyday state.
If you already hate people like Bill O'Reilly and Ann Coulter but need more specific data to back up your gut feeling that they are garbage people, you've definitely come to the right place.
funny and entertaining and.very enlightening.
crap shelf
Read this when it came out. Loud, over the top and nasty. Some fun but forgettable.
