https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14069.Throne_of_Jade
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListThis was supposed to be my St. Patrick's Day book (green) read, but I still read it in March so it still counts =) I love Temeraire and Laurence so much !
I loved that Temeraire was very protective over Laurence in this book.
We get to meet up with Riley again =) Some stuff happens on the trip over and some of the other dragons in Temeraire's crew help them out a for a little bit.
And we got some of the crew back to be there for Laurence and Temeraire.
That kind of painfully slow:✘ There isn't much action.There is so little action here that Laurence reading to Temeraire at night feels like a major event.
Exciting, right?✘ There is a story, but it's not that gripping.Laurence, Temeraire and friends are on a boat to China.
Now would probably a good time to remind you that I did actually give this book a 4-star rating.
So cute, adorable and heartwarming that reading about them makes me feel like I'm 10 again.
And I caught up with my inner wickedness in less time than it takes Temeraire to eat a sheep.
Naomi Novak’s writing is always beautiful and detailed and had I not read Uprooted before starting this series I might not have had such high expectations but alas I did and so I wanted something more.Throne of Jade is a lot more about cultural differences, social acceptances and politicking.
Unlike His Majesty’s Dragon which involved getting to know the dragon culture and being in quite a few battles, much of the time in Throne of Jade is spent traveling to China and the focus is more on the bond of loyalty between Teremaire and Laurence.
There are a few battles in this book but a lot of the action comes at the very beginning and the very end.
The previous book was mostly about Napoleon and his continued efforts to take over the rest of Europe; this book expands on that some more, but now there's also China thrown into the mix as both Britain and France fight for the Celestial Emperor's favor.In middle of all of that, you have Temeraire and Laurence and their unbreakable bond.
It was revealed at the end of the first book that Temeraire is a Celestial, the most prized breed of Chinese dragons, and here we learn that Celestials are companions only to Emperors and crown princes.
A fun read, but not quite as captivating as the first book. We got an interesting look at shipboard life as they travel for a long time, which made the book drag a bit, but not too much. The story had some twists & turns, some quite unexpected. From the long build up, it seemed to end quickly & completely, much to my surprise. A bit too abruptly & neatly, perhaps. I look forward to reading the next book, which I have, but I won't be reading it next. I don't feel I HAVE to read the next book.
In His Majesty’s Dragon, I got a beautiful dragon/human bonding story that focused on their budding relationship… when I expected a full-blown military showdown and very little character development.
In Throne of Jade, I got a nautical adventure with some great inter-character moments… when I was expecting most of the book to focus on some sort of military conflict with China (are you seeing the pattern here?).
I also love how much I’ve learned about Novik’s vision for dragon culture evolution in this alternate world, and, as with fun surprises, look forward to seeing how she develops this throughout the series.Series status: Temeraire is currently my #1 priority at the moment, and I’m trying to strike a balance between satisfying my cravings for them with my desire to also avoid burnout lol.
Deal with it.As I discovered in reading the previous book in the Temeraire series, His Majesty's Dragon, this is not necessarily an action/adventure fantasy.
If there was any doubt before, Laurence's friendship with the dragon has clearly moved well beyond that of master and pet to a very deep bond that is thoroughly tested as Temeraire learns more and more about his homeland of China.
The ending was a bit of a disappointment, but I am curious to see what Temeraire and Laurence will do with what they learn in China.
I've read reviews that say this second book in the Temeraire series is boring...
What's not to love???In this second book in the Temeraire series, Laurence and Temeraire must travel to China.
The freedom is dizzying to the young dragon and dismaying to Laurence who hopes to be able to take Temeraire back to England.I love that Novik was able to create this fascinating world of dragons in the first book and now, in the second book, has turned that world on its head and created an entirely different dragon world.
I just really love these books and the Laurence/Temeraire relationship is phenomenal <3 The fact that they branched out from the typical European/British setting and went all the way to China for this book was fantastic.
Another book that I have been putting off writing a review for, because I did not enjoy it nearly as much as I thought I would.The story has enough of Temeraire and Will to satisfy, and plenty more in the form new dragons, a new country, great action and interesting history, but it really tested my patience.My chief complaint, is that most of the book was a journey and NOTHING happened in between, apart from a single interesting incident involving a sea-serpent.
It was a chore turning pages and I longed for the book to end.
Luckily the ending was strong and I will more than likely pick up the next book in the series early in 2016.Also, it has dragons.
That’s almost a star on it’s own.
Then things get really interesting:)This book starts where the first one ended and the Chinese Prince and their delegation wants their dragon back!
But as much as I disliked the Chinese in the beginning, because I feel they have no right to our Dragon, NO right!, once we see how dragons are treated as a whole in China, I felt bad for the Western dragons and it is kind of obvious that they are being mistreated.
I especially feel this heartbreak for the albino dragon...
Unfortunately, things are off to a much slower start this time around, as we join Laurence and Temeraire in the middle of negotiations with China...regarding Temeraire's future with the English Aerial Corps.
Through a series of various events Lawrence ends up heading to China as a quasi-ambassador, joining Chinese nobility and various other characters for the long journey across the waves.
Which is fine by me, as I was very taken by the roles of dragons in Chinese society.While a full-fledged character in the first book, Temeraire really gets to shine here.
3.5 that I'm rounding up because I love Temeraire. This one was rather like war - long stretches of boredom punctuated by insane action. I kid, a little - I actually love the slowness of these books, but this one did have me wondering at the overall plot. Nonetheless, lots of fun!
The bigger part of the book is spent during the eight months that it takes for Laurence and Temeraire to get to China.
Okay, I know eight months is a long time, and if Naomi Novik was trying to get across just HOW long, then she really succeeded.
After all: the fight-scenes are still extremely good, the relationship between Laurence and Temeraire is taken in a new direction, the different cultures and their treatment of dragons was extremely interesting, the characters are still good, without a simple, boring 'bad guy' or other stereotypes, and I still laugh out loud at parts.But no.
It goes on as the first book ended and in the same style.To me it feels like the Temeraire series is a gigantic road trip.
It is more a trip with some goal, occasionally interrupted by some random action sequence/attack by someone or something and finally ending with a significant fight, only to have everything wrapped up rather nicely so the heros can continue on their journey.My biggest gripe is actually the lack of real plot.
you can read it half asleep before actually going to sleep and you don't miss much.The relationship between Temeraire and Lawrence is perfect, just as it used to be in the first book.
Nada emocionante en esta segunda entrega. Se aburre uno leyendo como Temerario y su jockey (el capitán ese) se van a China a ver si descubren los orígenes del dragoncito.Más o menos.Olvidable. No malo, malo, pero olvidable. No sigo con la saga.
Novik goes from strength to strength.
Maybe there are other writers who can evoke so much about time and place and character from the difficulty of finding suitable evening wear, but most writers overlook such prosaic material, particularly in a series that has war and adventure at its core.
I want to downgrade everything else, in order to give Novik more stars.Somewhere in the course of reading this one, I became convinced that the dragons aren't based on humans, but on cats.
Maybe that's because I was sick, and covered with sleeping cats, but it still seems plausible to me.
Rozczarował mnie ten tom.
Z jednej strony 2/3 dotyczą morskiej podróży, co powinno mnie jarać jak (nomen omen) flota Stannisa, ale głównie nużyło.
Fabuła polegała na: problem A - rozwiązujemy problem A - problem B - nie do końca rozwiązujemy problem B - problem C - wynika pośrednio z problemu B, rozwiązujemy problem C - problem D - wynika pośrednio...
To nie jest przepis na dobrą książkę.
Jeśli przez cały czas podkreśla się jak bardzo formalnym krajem są Chiny, a potem największą formalność załatwia się ot tak, to coś tu ewidentnie było nieprzemyślane.
And he comes to realize that in this book via his exposure to Chinese civilization – which, if my stereotypes hold, was and is not the most favorable toward women…but in this book, women’s rights in China are a byproduct of the Chinese reverence for dragons…so, take it where you can get it.In between the (aerial, as in on the back of dragons in flight) swordfights is political intrigue – the rather obvious plodding politics of Britain in the Victorian age, the more sophisticated politics of the Chinese Emperor’s Court (which are complicated by the related dragon issues, as compared to the British who assume they are superior to dragons, just like they are to everyone and everything else on the planet) play out.
I haven’t found this series to be particularly “twisty” or surprising so far, but I still get wrapped up in the story even when I’m not on the edge of my seat wondering what will happen next.
Another similarity is that the second half is quite a bit more action-heavy than the first half, and I enjoyed both halves.I did think the ending was too abrupt.
As I approached the end, I decided the problems at hand would surely be carried over to the next book because it didn’t seem like there was enough time left to resolve them.
Audiobook narrated by Simon VanceIn Book two of this series, the Chinese have learned that the gift they were sending to Napoleon (an unhatched dragon’s egg) was intercepted by the British.
The voyage is long and there are several serious mishaps, but when they finally arrive at the court of the Chinese emperor, they find even more intrigue.I was reluctant to read the first book – His Majesty's Dragon – because “fantasy” is just not my preferred genre.
Temeraire is growing and maturing, and shows great loyalty to Laurence.
And I love the voice he uses for Temeraire.
Apparently this picks up right where the first book ended.
It's been five years, sounds about right from what I remember.Slow start.
Old-fashioned feel to it, meshes well with other period-dramas I have read of that time.
Great travel narrative.However, there can be too much of a good thing.
Those were always excellent.The plot as such was good, but there were no great surprises.
The writing, in tune with the period, felt so old-fashioned, that I never managed to develop an emotional attachment to Laurence or Temeraire.
Sounds a bit tedious.
Eventually I might be tempted to read the next book.
While the pace of the book was considerably slower than in the first one, I still enjoyed it immensely. The journey to China was long but it paid off, since we learned a lot about the history and characteristics of dragons. It definitely had a more scholar feeling to it, especially near the end.
This second book in the series is very entertaining.
I'm impressed with Novik's writing.
The plot is much less predictable this time around and the action scenes are nicely timed.
Novik is a fan of Patrick O'Brian and Jane Austen, and her love for this period is obvious.I do have to say that her portrayal of dragons isn't my ideal.
The dragons in this series think and act almost exactly like humans, whereas I would expect them to have a less fathomable intelligence and a vastly different worldview.
But then my concept of dragons was perhaps fixed by the Pern books which I read at an impressionable age.
The fact that it's the real world with real countries and the war between Napoleon and Britain is something I really enjoyed and the relationship between Temeraire and Laurence is great.
It serves as a good plotpoint to make Temeraire like the Chinese more (which is not that great but also not that bad in my opinion).
I know the Chinese were supposed to be disliked during the book, but I actually liked the way they treated their dragons: they were not just living war machines.
I will not be continuing on in the series, because, from looking ahead at some synopses, it sounds like Laurence and Temeraire just travel the world and experience the various political and military happenings of the period, and they're still having the same debates.Throne of Jade consists almost entirely of the boat trip from England to China.
Initially, I was saddened by the thought of Temeraire being parted from Laurence, but by the time they actually get to China, the book had been over that six hundred times and I didn't have it in me to care that much what happened.The plot when it finally happens is quite anticlimactic and unbelievable.
Much politicking ensues and Captain Laurence is told to lie to Temeraire so that the young dragon will cooperate and return to China.
Of course, our young dragon is a little bit of a rebel and he refuses to cooperate so Captain Laurence and his entourage escort the Chinese delegation back to China by ship.A good portion of the book takes place on the ship.
The time spent in China was eye opening.
The Chinese treatment of dragons was very different than that of the English.
At times it read like a 4 star book - exciting, funny, clever.
The story was only barely saved by a fairly decent and (thank god) conclusive finale that gives me hope for the next book.However, I am getting slightly frightened that this series is just going to go downhill as there are NINE books in total and, at this point, I just can't see it going anywhere.
This is why I can only give Throne Of Jade a pathetic 2.5 stars, because anything less than that would be disrespectful to the series as a whole - as I LOVED the first book so much and I still plan to read the third - but giving it anything more would be an absolute lie, because the story was remarkably unexciting and this series needs to get itself together, fast.
This book combines two of my least favorite aspects of the fantasy genre--unnecessary sequels and endless travelogues--into a vortex of boredom.
The characters who were great came back dull, the okay ones came back interchangeable, and there is absolutely nothing going on except a very slow voyage to China,* because the Chinese want Temeraire back, which of course we know isn't going to last because there are half a dozen more books featuring him and Laurence in places that aren't China.Now it's no secret that I have little patience for series and even less for the episodic type, but good grief, if you're going to write that kind of series, at least bring in some complex new characters or interesting plots or something.I propose a new rule for fantasy book writing: if more than a quarter of any sequel is spent traveling, it's because the author doesn't really have anything more to say in this world or with these characters, and is simply drawing it out for the sake of writing a sequel.
I liked the mix of (alternate) history, battles, China, and especially dragons.
