https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22058229-the-dancer-at-the-gai-moulin
Set in Liège, Belgium, author Georges Simenon’s hometown, The Dancer at the Gai-Moulin begins with Delfosse and Chabot’s amateurish attempt to hide out at the Gai-Moulin after closing in an effort to steal from the cash register; however, what the boys find aren’t Belgian francs but a dead customer!
And why was Graphapoulos, who originally bought a ticket for a flight to London, in Liège at all?Despite its title, Adèle Bousquet, the beautiful woman whose job it is to dance with the male patrons at the Gai-Moulin and flirtatiously entice them to spend big on drinks, does not play a big role in The Dancer at the Gai-Moulin.
One of my favorite Maigret novels — which is high praise, indeed!
First, Inspector Maigret doesn't even appear as a central character until almost 2/3 through the novel, leaving an interesting and refreshing narrative through other people's eyes for the majority of the story.
It doesn't take place in Paris, the reader is not part of Maigret's knowledge of the case (or even how he became involved) until much later, and the reader is given a special insight into a few characters and their worlds that is not present in Simenon's other books.
A great first read for anyone who knows nothing of Maigret, and a great refreshing change for anyone who (like me) enjoys the series but is looking for something slightly set apart from the rest.
I've been aware of the prolific Georges Simenon for years but for some reason have not picked up his Maigret mysteries.
Thank goodness for the "bag sale" at my local library!
I came home with a small stack of them recently and this was the first one I picked up to read; perhaps the greatest pleasure it offered is that I know there are dozens and dozens and dozens more of Simenon's novels out there waiting for me..
The characterization is great;.
the setting is so vivid I feel like I walked into the room;.
and Inspector Maigret is a jewel.
Maigret doesn't even appear until the middle of the book, but his presence is felt from the beginning. Published in 1931, there's a lot in this story which fits in with the goings-on of young people today -- too much money, too little direction, disenchantment with work, partying nights, looking for excitement in the wrong places. Throw in a little espionage and moving corpses and you have a really good mystery.
Tutti i particolari in cronaca.Terzo "Maigret" per Simenon e per me, questa volta non ha funzionato.La storia gialla non gira e lo spiegone finale fa giustizia dei colpevoli, ma non dei buchi di sceneggiatura, rattoppati malamente con una trovata poco plausibile.I protagonisti sono un po' troppo ovvii, due ragazzotti che non si sentono a loro agio in nessun posto, a caccia di vita facile, di locali equivoci e ragazze inequivoche.
Al lettore con maggiore inclinazione per la materia (i gialli o le ballerine un po' sfiorite), potrebbe forse strappare una stella in più.
Simenon takes a different approach with this 10th novel in the Maigret series. (view spoiler)[The good Inspector does not appear until the middle of the book, but then it becomes apparent that he was roaming around for quite a while...and even controlling many of the actions with a heavy hand. (hide spoiler)] I felt it had a bit of an uneven pace, though many sections are some of my favorites in the 10 first novels. Good read.
3.5 rounded up to 4 stars
Simenon in questo romanzo breve concede davvero poco spazio alle intuizioni di Maigret, e tra l'altro buona metà del romanzo è dedicata alla descrizione del locale e dei suoi due (poco) raccomandabili ragazzi che lo frequentano, Defosse e Chabot.
L'entrata in scena del commissario è molto ritardata, ed anche l'indagine in realtà non c'è, poichè basta inscenare una piccola recita da parte di Maigret, che subito la verità viene subito alla luce.
Il finale stesso è abbastanza deludente e la verità sul locale abbastanza improbabile e dai toni piuttosto frettolosi,come se l'autore non avesse avuto molta ispirazione nel lavorare a questo scritto.
Margret stories are short and involved, but most of the time the reader is not expected to be able to solve the crimes.
At least, I have found that to be true.
There is a "cult" following for Simenon and the writing of these stories.
This one was about a night club that was the scene of a mystery and the death of a man.
I would not need to say more as it might give it away, but there are young decadent teens, arrogant rich parent, bored foreigners, and a tired and middle age dancer.
I keep reading these as they are short and they have intricate plots.
Questo Maigret si discosta dai precedenti per un aspetto abbastanza importante; Maigret entra in scena nella seconda metà del romanzo. Prima invece, largo spazio è dedicato ai due protagonisti, due giovani viveurs di Liegi, alle prese con bagordi serali e piccole truffe… Maigret c'è ma non si vede, nel senso che è una presenza costante ma non identificata… Finale un po' piatto, peccato, altrimenti da 5 stelle
One of my least favorite Maigrets. It's more of a procedural than others I've read, and lacks some of the psychological nuances of others in the series.
My first novel by Georges Simenon. I do like his style. **I'll add more soon**
Prior to this, the predominant point of view is from that of a young man of humble origins under the nefarious influence of his libertine friend who finds himself embroiled in the murder of a mysterious rich foreigner.
I prefer my mysteries as hard-boiled character studies, and I read this series for Maigret's point of view.Maigret swoops in at the end and almost clavoyantly assembles a set a very confusing facts into the correct order.
The Maigret book chosen ("La Danseuse du Gai-Moulin" - published 1931 in France) had been recently translated into English by Sian as "The Dancer at the Gai Moulin".
Thus the evening provided an opportunity not just to discuss the Maigret book but also the wider question of translations of literature into English.
It is publishing all 75 of the Maigret novels, one a month, in order and newly translated, over the next few years.
You should always translate into your first language, though a few people were genuinely bilingual.Sian made the point that there was a huge difference, greater than in English, between spoken and written French.
They plan to rob the till after closing time but that goes out the window when they stumble across a dead body in the club.
The dead man was a rich playboy, there is no police search at the club, and the boys are shocked.
This is a classic mystery with almost no leads for the local police to follow, no suspects, not even a crime scene.
Simenon has created an enduring character and threaded him into a massive series of puzzles, any one of which is a worth while read, entertaining as all heck, and puzzling to the end.
Two unpleasant 18 year olds are drinking at a less than glamorous night club that they attend often.
The atmosphere created in the Gai-Moulin is sensational, to the extent that the reader feels they are there, drinking at the bar, observing.
I have read several of Simenon's stand alone and this almost is that, as Maigret does not appear until well into the second half of the book.
Certainly the 'reveal' is compelling and with twists, but the real magic of the book is in creating the scene.
Deux jeunes noceurs endettés – un bourgeois désaxé et le fils d'un employé – fréquentent à Liège « Le Gai-Moulin », une boîte de nuit où ils courtisent l'entraîneuse Adèle.
A la fin d'une soirée qu'elle a passée, à une table voisine des jeunes gens, en compagnie d'un Levantin arrivé le jour même dans la ville, Delfosse et Chabot se laissent enfermer dans la cave de l'établissement afin de s'emparer de la recette.
Dans l'obscurité, ils entr'aperçoivent ce qu'ils croient être un cadavre, celui du Levantin ; ils prennent la fuite.A movie was made based on this book: réalisé par Jean-Paul Sassy en 1981.
Alec Jean Richard (Commissaire Maigret), Annick Tanguy (Madame Maigret).
The start was slow and I found the young protagonists, Chabot and Delfosse, extremely irritating and jejune.I spotted the identity of the mysterious guest at the night-club without difficulty, but had no idea what lay behind the murder, or who the murderer was, as there were really no clues until Maigret made his exposition of the case.The translation flows smoothly and this is easy-reading, a pleasant-enough way to pass an hour or two.
There is no real depth to the story, unless you imagine there to be more to the relationship of Delfosse and Chabot than meets the eye; the former is certainly a very disturbed young man.The Dancer of the title, Adèle, is another of Simenon's tough and strong women.
The version I read was called Maigret at the "Gai Moulin" but the Dancer is the original French title.
Anyway, this is a bit unusual in that M does not make an appearance until 2/3 of the way through the book.
When trying to rob a night club, the Gai-Moulin, they see a body on the floor and panic.
One boy is distraught, but the spoiled son of a local business man goes another way, taking up with a dancer from the club.
The murdered man is a wealthy Greek, but what is he doing there?
Who is the mysterious "broad shouldered" man who was tailing him?
He is Maigret.
È il secondo Maigret che leggo, mi rendo conto che non è molto per avere un'opinione ben formata su Simenon e il suo stile, ma non mi sta entusiasmando.
Il lettore non grandi indizi con cui "giocare".
L'ispettore sa cose che a noi non è dato sapere se non quando le dice lui.
Insomma non mi sento coinvolta nelle indagini.
Lo "spiegone" finale non è illuminante e soddisfacente è piuttosto un mucchio di informazioni che non avevamo che magicamente riuniscono i puntini del caso.
Ne leggerò ancora qualcuno perché sono comunque curiosa di capire cos'è che ha reso così famoso questo ispettore.
A könyv eleje szerintem kicsit tovább lett nyújtva, mint kell, nem értettem, hol van Maigret végre? Mikor jelenik meg? És azt mondtam magamnak: Gabi, nagyon régen olvastad ezt a könyvet, ha semmi nem rémlik belőle. :-)Valahogy hiába jelent azonban meg Maigret, nekem az események nem pörögtek fel. Nem éreztem azt a kisugárzást, amit eddig minden Simenon minden krimijében éreztem. Eddig pár oldal után ott éreztem magam a helyszínen, most ez elmaradt.Összességében azt mondhatom, három csillagot adhatok rá. Sajnos csak ennyit.
The perfect read for a journey to Bristol and back - gripping, entertaining, but not too challenging. And at 150-odd pages, I finished it whilst passing through Slough.A great novel if written by anyone other than Simenon. As far as the great man is concerned, this is just another very good offering. It's hard to say much without spoiling the intricacies of the plot, but what was a fine touch was for Maigret to have made no entry into the novel until halfway through.
This is the earliest of the Maigret books that I have read so far, and I was pleasantly surprised at how it was structured so differently than the later ones. This is much more intricately plotted as well, and if some of the plot points seem a little far-fetched I can forgive Simenon because I am well aware that in the 1930's a foreign agent seemed to lurk behind every corner.
The first Maigret I've read, having become interested to read the books since the new TV version with Rowan Atkinson. I enjoyed the story, a fast - paced whodunnit which I read quickly, both because it was short, but also because it was full of suspense and held my interest to the end. I look forward to reading more Maigret.
Een nachtclub in Luik. Twee jongens laten zich insluiten na sluitingstijd. Ze willen er met de inhoud van de kas vandoor. In het donker treffen ze echter het lichaam aan van een van de andere bezoeker van de club. Ze slaan op de vlucht. Al snel worden ze verdacht, maar er is nog een verdachte: een breedgeschouderde, pijprokende Fransman, die het heel goed kon vinden met Adèle, het danseresje van de nachtclub. Hij wordt gevonden en gearresteerd. Zijn naam is Maigret...
So many twists in this story it made it even more fast paced than usual.In this one there has been a murder of a mysterious visitor to the Gai-Moulin club, who has done this and who is involved? This story revolves mainly around Jean and Renee, who frequent the club and Adele one of the dancers at the club. What do these 3 have to hide?
Of course, Simenon and his detective Maigret never disappoint, but this one is especially good because of the characters and the particular slices of Parisian social strata and of police life as well.
A bit silly
Misguided teen-agers, a shady spy ring, and a detective who unmasks himself only half-way through. Simenon is a master craftsman when it comes to mood. The plot in this one was a little thin.
at first i thought, is this broad shoul dered guy Maigret, then, of course not, then, surprise!
