https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10461.Desolation_Angels
Described by some as Kerouac's best work, Desolation Angels contains everything you would come to expect from a key writer of the Beat Generation, with an abundance of Jack's sometimes difficult to grasp Spontaneous Prose.
This was such a mixed bag for me, from the stream of his semi-conscious jazz-like rhythm fuzzy beatnik mind, to the more clearer and poignant writing later on that chronicles the travelling lives of himself, his friends, including Irwin Garden (Allen Ginsberg) and Bull Hubbard (William Burroughs), Cody Pomeray (Neal Cassady) and towards the end, an emotive journey with his own mother.
This book is the best reason I can think of for anyone ever learning to read.
The things he sees and thinks and writes, they're gorgeous, uplifting, insane, horrific, and sometimes bleak beyond belief.
But through it all there is a shocking sweetness and sometimes earnest naivety from Kerouac himself, which endears so much about the world to - I'm certain - anyone who reads it.
I still don't believe in God, but Kerouac has given me the best reasons why belief is still important, and can still be beautiful.
You know when you've just finished reading something utterly wonderful, and you feel all pretentiously gob-smacked that your brain has been irrevocably changed?
“My life is a vast and insane legend reaching everywhere without beginning or ending, like the Void 
Desolation Angels starts where Kerouac left us at the end of The Dharma Bums.
Although the two books kind of flow into each other you will notice that Kerouac has changed.
He still has that excitement for life and experience and that somehow never ending urge to be on the road and hang out with his old Beat buddies but eventually he can't identify with the spirit of the so called Beat Generation anymore.
Throughout the book he spends lots of time in solitude - thinking, drinking and writing.
It is a book about solitude, friendship and poetry.
If you liked The Dharma Bums, Desolation Angels should follow.
And who am I, really, to comment on such a great mind.In the final chapter of this book, Kerouac writes (in relation to Neal Cassidy, though he is obviously making a wider point):'He is a believer in life and he wants to go to Heaven but because he loves life so he embraces it so much he thinks he sins and will never see Heaven ...
They are the ogres of Law entering the Holy Realm of Sin!'This is a typical moment in the book, where Kerouac merges poetry with prose, so that there is no clear distinction between the two.
The writing here is again vintage "On the Road" Kerouac continues with his travels to Africa and Europe and this included the following poignant passage when he becomes homesick and wishes only for a box of Wheaties in an American kitchen Many Americans suddenly sick in foreign lands must get the same childlike yen, like Wolfe suddenly remembering the lonely milkman's bottle clink at dawn in North Carolina as he lies there tormented in an Oxford room, or Hemingway suddenly seeing the autumn leaves of Ann Arbor in a Berlin brothel,Scott Fitz tears coming into his eyes in Spain to think of his father's old shoes in the farmhouse door."That passage reminds me of the writer that Kerouac could have become if he had continued to evolve.
Of the many Beat writers, Burroughs and Kerouac are the two who I’ve read the most and who’s writing has had the most impact on me.
Of the two, I like Burroughs’ writing more but find I identify more with Kerouac’s.The first Kerouac book I read was  On The Road .
I was in college and I was in Spokane in the early morning waiting for a bus to take me home to Cheney.
I read the entire book waiting for that bus, which tells you I was way into it and that the busses In Spokane were few and far betwe
Of the two, I like Burroughs’ writing more but find I identify more with Kerouac’s.The first Kerouac book I read was 
I read the entire book waiting for that bus, which tells you I was way into it and that the busses In Spokane were few and far between.Having read Burroughs recently, I thought it would be swell to give Kerouac another go.
It’s a pleasure to read Kerouac talking about his friends.In fact, some of my favorites parts of Desolation Angels were when he was talking about hanging out with Burroughs.
Desolation Angels is heaven and hell and the world and America and the Void and his Mom. Kerouac/Duluoz is a despicable, noble, earnest, loving, whiny, brilliant, loyal, weak, irreplaceable, insane jazz poet.
As a preamble, listen to Bob Dylan’s Desolation Row and realize how he creates surprisingly linear beauty tangentially, and then crank up the random-o-meter one hundred times for Kerouac.
One thousand preliminarily random images turn into a masterful Pointillist painting in prose.
In Desolation Angels he is Dharma Bum, addict, alcoholic, villain, criminal, poet, preacher, seer, mystic and finally Penitente and Bodhisattva having simultaneously reached the gates of Heaven/Nirvana and found himself unforgivable.
Another excellent chapter in his life, with many great moments.
Definitely felt the desolation throughout this book, over and over he talks of meaninglessness and death, yet interspersed is still a great spark of life, reverence and friendship, and some reflections on his burgeoning fame just prior to Road's publication, and he, already fatigued by the media and public's reactions and exaggerations.
My third favorite, after Road and Sax, and still some great ones remain...
I, like many others, found Desolation Angels after reading On The Road. If you're expecting this to be an off-shoot of On The Road, you'd be wrong.This book is a journey into the mind of Kerouac. Some call him genius, some madman, but I don't think you can truly define him in any one catagory.This book is no easy task. It takes a lot of thinking and a lot of patience to get through, but it's well worth the effort in the end.
Forget On The Road- this is Kerouac at his best. Combining the spiritual philosophies of the Dharma Bums, the road and parties and seeking of On The Road and the desolation and isolation of the human spirit in the abyss of nature of Big Sur. To me, this is Jack's most accessible and balanced writing, not only for the content, but also for his lyrical prose being at its finest. Genius!
In this book Jack goes on the road (with Mom), has sex with a fourteen year old mexican prostitute, meets up with a Neal (Cody) whom is a far fly from his On the Road days and is tied down with a wife + three kids and a job, meets Salidore Dali + William Carlos WIlliams + Carl Sandburg, gets his book published, is constantly compulsively depressed, has a paradigmatic consciousness flip after a huge dose of opium, meets up with junkie Burroughs in Tangiers (whom is lovelorn over Ginsburg), and kicks Buddhism down a notch for a more hardcore return to Christianity.
After this period of desolation, he returns to the bright lights of the big cities to meet up with his friends, many of whom were high-profile literary figures even at the time.Expect to see plenty of familiar faces disguised behind new names, like Allen Ginsberg as Irwin Garden, William Burroughs as Bull Hubbard, Neal Cassady as Cody Pomeray, Gregory Corso as Raphael Urso, Peter Orlovski as Simon Darlovsky and Gary Snyder as Jarry Wagner.
Jack-EEE Duluoz climbs the mountain, and comes down (p.
while I spent all summer pacing and praying in mountaintops, of rock and snow, of lost birds and bears, these people've been sucking on cigarettes and drinks and pacing and praying in their souls, too, in their own way .
. ."Love Jack, love the writing: the humility, intellect, humanity, and humor; I'm a big fan, and he inspires me.
This is a great, great book.
Jack is hilarious, as in the scene when Raphael (angel) confronts the mob (p.
324), and it continues throughout the book.poem "Old Shoe"http://www.beatdom.com/?p=3096poem "Shack on the Beach"http://www.beatdom.com/?p=3109
Boy, I really enjoyed this book, even if not a great work of art. For me reading later Kerouac is like a great conversation with a really thoughtful and interesting, if somewhat mixed-up friend. I bought this for .50 at the Friends of Library Booksale, lost it for about two months, and spent many pleasurable hours on my front porch reading the almost 400 pages this spring, summer and fall. I'm feeling kind of melancholy that I'm finished and don't have Jack to visit with anymore. Goodbye Jack. Maybe we'll run into each other again sometime.
I tried getting into this but wow, this is horrible and I dont understand why so many give it great reviews.His style is extremely awkward, and the mini-rants(for lack of better term) are pointless. I could not get past page 5.
Jack's books are all based on his experiences, and I can't imagine being a lookout on the top of a mountain, all alone and isolated for an entire month.
She explains how she met him in New York back in the 1950s and his fascination with Buddhism.
In his later years, he used Buddhism to justify his isolation from the world, which would eventually lead him to being alone and out of touch with his friends in a small house in St. Petersburg, Florida.The book is uneven at times but there are several passages that show the true brilliance of Jack Kerouac.
I can't get into this, the writing style is too tedious.
I had already started reading Desolation Angels when I read the first few pages of Going Rogue by Sarah Palin just to see what it's like, and it initially intrigued me as they were surprisingly similar in content i.e.
- wilderness, and the style of flat writing focusing on the everyday, people, places, and daily routine.
I was going to read Desolation Angels along with Going Rogue, as very different books often give a wider perspective and context, when read together.
In this case maybe not a good idea.
I absolutely loved this book. Why? Mostly because Ive always been a fan of Kerouacs writing style, his sincerely and progress as a writer as well as a human beeing. While some might argue that in his later year he became a bitter alcoholic one must say that it never affected his writing in a negative way. This is not On The Road, its darker and grittier but that may be exactly why I liked it so much.
I absolutely loved this book. Why? Mostly because I´ve always been a fan of Kerouacs writing style, his sincerely and progress as a writer as well as a human beeing. While some might argue that in his later year he became a bitter alcoholic one must say that it never affected his writing in a negative way. This is not On The Road, it´s darker and grittier but that may be exactly why I liked it so much.
I finally found it. The book that changed my life. A bible for any avid and aspiring reader, poet, philosopher, writer, adventurer.
Kerouac epitomizes his roaming road-dog philosophy as oscillating from beat as in beat down to beatific as scintillant angel-in-waiting penitent walking, thumbing, noticing the lost backroads of the world's underbelly.
"Desolation Angels" begins on a mountaintop in contemplation and after a roller-coaster ride through the detritus riddled mélange of Beat characters' antics arrives worn and shorn of hubris but nonetheless a writer of notoriety in the making.
All these hepcats and to be fair their were women accomplices who would later gain at least some recognition for their contributions ushered in a lost-in-the-world consciousness of post-war freedom purchase on the souls in search of release from bourgeoisie ennui.
His life was just as miserable and hopeless and the loops of despair that at one time were poetic and brimming with passion became sad yelps of day by day unpeaceful.So I am wary of reading this book, but so far I have managed.
Dharma Bums?I swear I will stop reading it if it makes me blue.Well old Jack has his appeal, and for a few days I continued reading his wonderful descriptions.
Anyway, I even dipped into the Dharma bums to see if I could scare up the quote, but had no luck.Then, this morning, driving to work, I said to myself: I don't know why, I'm feeling kind of depressed.
The only cringe worthy aspect of Kerouac is his ignorance over race, suggesting all poor black people are jolly happy folk.The only problem with Beat-Lit is the fact that the men are so weak & stupid; their attitude to women is simply degrading: 'I just wanted them to spread their legs.' e.g. if she sleeps with you she's cool, if she's not interested she's a dike or 'square'.This blatant sexism & ignorant racism i find bizarre along side their relaxed attitude to homosexuality, and really works out that men can do whatever they want.But this is only part of Beat, and doesn't detract from his amazing stream-of-conciousness writing style, rushing by as fast as the road, carrying us with it.
This book was unique among Keruoac books I've read.
It seemed like it was cobbled together by editors in a hurry to sell Keruoac in his post-On the Road fame.
Overall, the amount of material Keruoac (or the publishing company) tried to cram into this one book detracts from the quality and readability of the book in the end.
This book was not Keruoac's best, or at least not my favorite work of his that I've read, but it has some glimmering moments that I really appreciated, which in the end caused me to bump up my rating from 2 to 3 stars.
What Keruoac book should I read next?
The thing to admire about Jack Kerouac is that he was smart enough to disguise the fact that he was an idiot, in his books at least, and he didn’t do that.
This is not to deny that his writings are streaked through with layers of pretentious dispensations lathered upon his fictional self and his thinly disguised friends and literary contemporaries.
Starting with its title, Desolation Angels is veined with bold assertions of eternal sacred significance for Kerouac’s book-famous crew of basic fuckups.
Certainly not the excitable, lust-for-life Kerouac of On The Road and his earlier days, but still a very recognizably Kerouacian stream of thought.
Originally a double novel, the first section is based on his time spent on fire watch upon Desolation Peak and the metaphysical rambles that run through the mind during 60+ days of isolation and solitude.
In this section, in this end-half of the book, in this period in his life, you certainly see the beginnings and feel the melancholy of the author's later-life.
An amazing read for those who can find beauty in the author's sometimes bleak views on the ephermeral, trivial nature of life.

Kerouac's best, IMO.
Probably one of the more intention looks into Jack's mind. A must read for any Kerouac enthusiast, just don't keep the gun loaded.
This book rocks the fucking cock.
