https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107159.Batman
★★★✬ 3.5 Stars The Year Is 1889. Wealthy Gentleman Bruce Wayne has returned from his long and mysterious Europe trip after years of absence. He is a man with a mission, and the mission compels him to don the cape of the bat to fight the evils of the dark. Alas, Just like the bat, someone else has found his home in Gotham. Someone who had a spell of notoriety in London. Someone.... sinister.Gotham by Gaslight is the very first elsewhere story published by DC, and it's been quoted as one of the be
sinister.Gotham by Gaslight is the very first elsewhere story published by DC, and it's been quoted as one of the best in the set.
The identity of Jack was easily guessable, and the whole last act was not as good as expected.This collection also features a second story, The Masters of the future (1991) with arts by Eduardo Barreto.
This story also suffers because of the short length, but I really enjoyed the final reveal and the action.Considering this was written over three decades ago, Gotham by Gaslight is a good collection for Batman fans looking for a unique tale!
Batman in the Victorian Age! This TPB edition collects “Batman: Gotham by Gaslight” and “Batman: Master of the Future”, the two part of the elsewords miniseries “Victorian Batman”.Creative Team:Writer: Brian AugustynIllustrator: Mike Mignola & Eduardo BarretoInker: P. Craig Russell Letterers: John Workman & Willie SchubertIntroduction: Robert Bloch GOTHAM BY THE GASLIGHT I’ve known about this story since some years ago, but until now, knowing about the incoming direct-to-video animated
Well, so much good books, so little time, I haven’t any better reason to justify myself.This miniseries is set in an elseworld (parallel dimension) where Batman risen 100 years before, during the Victoriana ge, but still set in Gotham City, USA.Bruce Wayne suffered the same, with the unfair murder of his parents, BUT I liked a little detail in his origin here, where the bats instead of being something that he fears, it was something that saved his life, since a bunch of bats was the reason that the criminal wasn’t able to shoot him too.
Aside from Mike Mignola making Commissioner Gordon look like drunk Teddy Roosevelt from the Hall of Animatronic Sex Panther Presidents, the art is quite good in the first tale (the book contains two stories, the second of which is not as good—artistically or plotistically—as the first).
There's a certain expectation when you see something claiming to be Victorian Era Batman, and that expectation is what you mostly get. Unless, of course, you wanted some detective to shine through since there won't be any gadgets... because there isn't any mystery solving in here. Not really. I mean, a mystery or two gets solved, but only between panels. Look, when I see something claiming to be some alternate reality Batman, I immediately assume it will be 'fine'. Because they're never great, are they? And that's precisely what this is. 'Fine.'
We've seen it a million times before (and executed far better) in other Batman tales.
19th Century asylums are very interesting places, and the 19th century version of Arkham--especially a steampunk infused version of it--could be mind-blowingly awesome.The story, despite being boring, also feels quite rushed, to the point where there are plot holes.
Nothing is explained.I also wasn't that impressed with the artwork.
Our glimpses of Batman are few and far between and none are particularly cool looking.In short, this Batman comic was a complete waste of the brilliant potential in terms of both its story and its art.
Just as the initial depiction of Sigmund Freud seems more akin to a cardboard cutout that an actually fleshed out individual, so too does the rest of the story amount more to a visual success than a properly bodied tale.Just as mentioned, we get the appearance of that (in)famously deranged, cocaine addicted fraudster but none of the personality that (un/)rightfully earned this man his place in the annals of history.
I've been going back to Mignola's pre-Hellboy work. I read this Batman elseworld ages ago. The art was part Steampunk, part Year One. The story was fantastic: Batman versus Jack the Ripper. I loved it then and I still loved it today.
Συμπαθητικό άλμπουμ με δυο καλούτσικες ιστορίες, σίγουρα κάτι το διαφορετικό στο σύμπαν του Μπάτμαν, όμως γενικά τίποτα το εξαιρετικά ιδιαίτερο.
Το σχέδιο πολύ καλό, με μετέφερε για τα καλά στο κλίμα της Βικτωριανής Εποχής: Μου φάνηκε όσο σκοτεινό και ατμοσφαιρικό χρειαζόταν, με φοβερό χρωματισμό.
Και η δεύτερη ιστορία -"Master Of The Future"- δεν είναι καθόλου άσχημη, το σχέδιο είναι καθαρό και αρκετά όμορφο, απλά κάτι δεν με έπεισε στα κίνητρα του κακού, ενώ η όλη πλοκή δεν με κράτησε όσο η πρώτη, αν και είχε και αυτή το ενδιαφέρον της.
The concept behind this was so intriguing to me I could not wait to devour the story, and then, it was classic mystery pattern.Innocuous secondary character, introduced early, forgotten, then is the villain.Yawn.The part I really liked, was how well Bruce Wayne was framed and nearly hung for the crimes.I do hope they do more with this era, but with better long term writing and thought-out plots.
I was so drawn to this brooding and reticent watchful guardian of the night in a very inexplicable sense, and I knew that he needs to be a constant thing in my life from there on.Reading Bryan Augustyn's self-contained story Gotham by Gaslight unearth those nostalgic feelings.
This fifty-paged comic book is set in an alternate universe where Bruce Wayne, Batman and Gotham City are in the nineteenth century.
Gotham City itself after all has that kind of vibe already--something so ancient and dark that you always feel a chill in your spine when you're reading about it.
Interesting idea but kind of short and missing elements in the story telling that could have made this really work. There seems like so much more that could have been made between the Batman and Jack the Ripper, but instead the story breezes through to a very unsatisfying but obvious conclusion.
There are two stories in here: the original Gotham by Gaslight and a follow up.
You could safely ignore the follow up story.
It isn't as good as the original, and has Batman in a much more action oriented, pulpy sort of role.
The original story pits Batman against Jack the Ripper.
Now this was really good.
Bruce is at the start of his career as Batman, and the case doesn't come easily to him.
This story also felt more authentic, much more like what Batman would have been like in the Victorian era.
Definitely read the original Gotham by Gaslight story, but you can stop there.
Like X-Men Noir, this is a great idea with a kinda pathetic execution. The writing is so-so, the artwork is shabby, but the book's worst crime is that the world of Victorian Gotham is never explored. I wanted to see gaslight versions of our favorite villains, but all I got were paint-by-numbers steampunk hijinks. Selina Kyle as an Irene Adler-like lady thief, Oswald Cobblepott as a vicious new-money social interloper, the Joker as Jack the Ripper: now that would be a comic book. If only.
Two parts. The first is much better, specially the parts drawn by Mike Mignola:I guess it would have been much better if the villains in the first part and the second part were The Joker and Superman (respectively). It was very doable.
Hatta bir ara şen dulları zehirleyerek öldüren ama yakalanınca intihar etmeye kalkan ve yüzüne “kalıcı bir sırıtış” yerleşen bir katilden bile söz ediliyor.Bruce gündüzleri zengin bir aylak rolüne bürünürken geceleriyse Batman olarak sokakları suçtan temizlemeye başlıyor.
Daha sonraysa olayların hiç beklenmedik bir yön alması ve sürpriz bir sonla bitmesi de ayrı bir keyif oldu doğrusu.Sonuç olarak, "Gotham’ın Gaz Lambaları" sadece Batman ve Karındeşen Jack efsanelerini başarıyla birleştirmekle kalmıyor, aynı zamanda da tadı damakta kalan bir okuma deneyimi sunuyor bizlere.
Ve en sonunda onu durdurmak pelerinini yeniden kuşanmaya gönülsüz olan Batman’e düşer.LeRoi’nın tüm tuhaflıklarına rağmen, bu maceranın "Gotham’ın Gaz Lambaları" kadar etkileyici olduğunu söylemek zor.
Der Band enthält zwei Stories, in denen Brian Augustyn den Fledermaus-Mann in die Ära der Gaslaternen zurückversetzt.Beim viktorianischen Zeitalter und bei Jack the Ripper denkt man eigentlich zuerst an London, und hier nimmt die erste Geschichte - GOTHAM BY GASLIGHT - auch ihren Anfang.
In London treibt der Frauenmörder Jack the Ripper sein Unwesen, und Bruce ist noch nicht lange zurück in Gotham, als sich dort die Mordserie fortsetzt.
Peki karşısına Karındeşen Jack gibi ele avuca sığmaz bir katil çıkarsa?
Batman'i ve Gotham şehrini alıştığımız kalıplarından çıkarıp 1800'lere uyarlaması kadar o tarihte yaşanmış gerçek olaylara ve kişilere yaptığı göndermelerle de dikkat çekiyor.
Hellboy'un yaratıcısı Mike Mignola'nın erken dönem çizimlerine şahit olmak da bir o kadar güzel.
Ama en güzeli Karındeşen Jack efsanesini Batman'in karşısında görmek ve bu ikilinin keskin zekâlarını birbirlerini alt etmek için kullandığına şahit olmak elbette.
Konu olarak Karındeşen Jack serüveni kadar ilgi çekici olmasa da başka bir çizer tarafından yapılan çizimlerini şahsen daha çok sevdim.
Batman'in bu hâline tam olarak doyamadığınızı, kendisini yeterince göremediğinizi düşünüyorsunuz okumayı tamamladığınızda.Alternatif tarih hikâyelerini sevenlere tavsiye olunur.
I have wanted to read this for ages and I'm so happy I finally got my hands on it. It was fantastic, I loved both stories but especially the Jack The Ripper one. Gotham suits this era perfectly and everything fits nicely. The Ripper letter at the beginning as well was really well written. The next thing I'm going to say is slightly spoilery so stop reading now if you don't want to read it! Finally someone said what we've all been thinking for years "That mask does not disguise the eyes of the man I love" - Finally!
This volume collects three "Elseworlds" Batman stories.
The first story, "Gotham by Gaslight" was filled to the brim with wasted potencial.
While the artwork by Mike Mignola (of Hellboy fame) captured perfectly the victorian setting, sadly the story itself was too basic and short to be particularly memorable.
It is a brutal and bloody good story with great artwork from Kelley Jones.
There are two other stories set in this world that sadly were not included in this volume.
The final story in this collection is "Sanctum".
I just wish that the other two Batman Vampire stories were included.
A superb suspense thriller of the Dark Knight set in the Victorian age.
Bruce Wayne returns from London to find that Gotham city crime rate has intensified.
The story is by Brian Augustyn and illustrations by Mike Mignola.
Batman has to face the notorious Jack the Ripper prowling the gas lit streets of the city later Bruce Wayne has been charged of murders and locked up in Arkham Asylum.
Batman using his detective skills nabs the real Jack the Ripper.
And who is that person is a revelation for us.
About artwork and other images please click the link below.
Sadly, though, in my opinion most of the Elseworlds stories that have been released have ranged from 'okay' to 'just awful', but luckily for me there is one shining jewel among the sea of mediocrity, and that's the original, the OG.
Also, this may be my bias speaking, but it was a huge missed opportunity to not have Mike return to pencil this book, but I suppose for the type of story it is the art is good enough, especially for the time that the story was originally published.
Having become quite enamored with the "Elseworlds" imprint, I was shocked when I saw no indication that "Gotham by Gaslight" was an Elseworlds tale.
Subsequently I have found that it was written prior to the designation being created and is now considered the first "Elseworlds" tale.Rightly so.The first story has Batman facing off against Jack the Ripper, while the second story has Batman facing off against an air pirate!
I also felt that the second story portrayed Batman in a much more Superman/Clark Kent dynamic which was both interesting and utterly charming.At this rate, I feel like all Elseworlds tales will end up on my final Batman list.
Batman Gotham by Gaslight tells the story of Bruce Wayne at the end of his travels across the globe and his return to Gotham City.He takes a ship from London to Gotham.
These murders seem to have followed him to Gotham, where he takes on the cape and cowl for the first time, becoming Batman.
Both stories are well written and both have great art.
The art by Mignola fits the gory story very well.If you’re a fan of Elseworld stories like me, you have to check this book out.
A great short story with some magnificently gothic drawings by the excellent Mike Mignola it's no wonder his talent took him on to bigger projects like Hellboy and BPRD.
"Master of the Future" is the second and longer story in this collection featuring an alternate origin story for the Joker and another test for the Batman to save Gotham.
Eduardo Barreto's drawings are excellent here too and Brian Augustyn, who penned both stories, writes another great script.
An excellent "What If...?" collection of two great Batman stories with some fantastic art thrown in.
I really like speculative fiction and while I don't have a lot of experience in steampunk/alternative history, I really liked 1890s batman.
I especially liked the first story, Gotham by Gaslight.
Jack the Ripper has always been an interesting part of history for me, and I really enjoyed where they took this interpretation.
I really didn't like the art though, it's very 80s (I know this was written in the 80s whatever, I just don't like that art style).
Overall this is an enjoyable Batman story and if you're interested in speculative fiction I suggest picking it up.

This was really just two alternate universe comics of Batman in the late 1800's. The first had him going head to head with Jack the Ripper. That one was pretty entertaining but the "secret" identity of Jack patently obvious to all but the most obtuse reader. The second was a story of Gotham being terrorized during the World's Fair. This one was a fairly straight story and gained little from the special time period. That being said, I'm a sucker for these "What If" type stories and had a good time reading it.
Pretty great book! Ever wandered what batman would have been like in the 1800s? Here's your answer! This book starts where Bruce Wayne returns to Gotham after his training, and becomes batman! What villain does fight first? Jack The Ripper! This was a pretty solid read, this book is the love child of Batman and Sherlock Holmes fans!
The comic answers: kind of a lot like it usually does, but with more moustaches and top hats.Even by the standards of most "what if?" one-shots, Gotham by Gaslight does little compelling with its premise.
Since our first story painted Victorian-era Gotham as little more than a grimy American harbor city, the idea that Gotham is marching ahead into the 20th century is weak enough - that the villain has a robot-piloted zeppelin and a solar powered doomsday weapon, and yet is intent on warning Gotham of industrial progress, is...
I absolutely loved this! Bruce during Victorian times in Europe and in America. Cameos by England's Prince, Dr. Freud, Buffalo Bill Cody and Thomas Edison! A very entertaining piece of the lexicon.
