https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69882.Billiards_at_Half_Past_Nine
Set in post-war Germany in the late 50's (although large parts of the narrative focuses on events from the past), Heinrich Böll has written a multi-layered and complex work of brilliance, that uses a free-form narrative, and, on a limited scale, a more structured recognizable one, which alternates around depending on whether in the past or present.
It is also, more importantly, a searing indictment of Nazi Germany.The more I think about the level of depth Heinrich Böll depicts throughout the novel, the more passionate I will praise it.
I have just re-read one of his better early novels, Billard um halbzehn (1959),(**) and am once again seduced by the many fine qualities of his prose.Though those of my generation may roll their eyes at this truism, it could well be the case that members of more recent generations are unaware that, for completely understandable reasons, in the first decade after World War II the German people had no desire to dwell on what had occurred from 1933 to 1945.
this book is SO much more than the actual events that took place because the story unravels as each of the characters take their turn to detail the inner ramblings of their mind's past.
Billiards is one of the most stylistically brilliant books I have ever read.
Throughout this book I was slightly confused trying to piece the names, places and events together.
Do not read this book if you enjoy being told EXACTLY what to think by an author.
Instead, this book does an excellent job making you feel like a confused outsider- much like the characters felt surviving in Nazi Germany.
Read this book if you enjoyed Memento.
Αργόσυρτος ρυθμός, πυκνή γραφή που σε παρασέρνει σχεδόν σε λήθαργο αλλά στην πραγματικότητα πετυχαίνει ακριβώς το αντίθετο: Την καταβύθιση στον κόσμο των πρωταγωνιστών του μυθιστορήματος που περιλαμβάνει αποξένωση, αμφιβολίες, ενοχές, πάθη, πληγές, όλα αυτά που δύο συνεχόμενοι παγκόσμιοι πόλεμοι και -κυρίως- το φάντασμα του ναζισμού άφησαν πάνω στη μεταπολεμική Γερμανία. Αναμφίβολα ένα βιβλίο σταθμός.
Είναι βγαλμένο μέσα από την ίδια την Γερμανία μετά την καταστροφή του πολέμου, κομμάτια κομμάτια ασύνδετα όπως τα ερείπια και οι ζωές των ανθρώπων του έργου.Με αποσπάσματικη γραφή, κομμάτια που καλούν τον αναγνώστη να προσπαθήσει να "γεμίσει" τα κενά της αφήγησης - σιγά σιγά - και όπως προχώρα δίνονται όλες οι απαντήσεις και οι λύσεις στους γρίφους ακαιρων, στην αρχή, λεξεων και σκέψεων, χωρίς να ακολουθεί κάποιο συγκεκριμένο μοτίβο διήγησης, παίζοντας με τους εσωτερικούς μονολόγους των ηρώων και με την αφήγηση τρίτων πάνω στο ίδιο θέμα ο συγγραφέας δημιουργεί κάτι...πρωτολειο (;)!
4,5. Κορυφαίο έργο.
Afterwards I read his books in a row one after the other.Böll's strong sense of justice, his representation of Truth is shining through his works like the desert SUN.
I guess Böll's literary work -facing the truth, no matter how hard it gets- was essential and instrumental for a German society recovering after the devastating WW II.
Reading his books is like putting together a puzzle.
Pieces get offered from different people's perspectives, the story is getting deeper and more complex as flashbacks and memories of several characters are written in the first person, yet they all get filtered by an omniscient narrator.
فرم کتاب را میپسندم. تغییر زاویه دید و جابهجایی مُدام آن میان یک عالمه شخصیت که همهشان زندگی پر فراز و نشیبی هم داشتهاند. در واقع مشکلام با داستان است. درست که دارد به جنگ میپردازد اما خط داستانی مشخصی وجود ندارد و کُنشی اتفاق نمیافتد. همهچیز در گذشته اتفاق افتاده و تمام شده. شخصیتها زندگیشان را برای مُنشی یا پادوی هتل تعریف میکنند اما خواننده که منشی و پادوی هتل نیست که مجبور باشد به وراجی آنها گوش دهد بی آنکه بداند قرار است این خاطرات به کجا برسند! انرژی داستان در صد صفحهی ابتدایی فروکش میکند
در واقع مشکل‌ام با داستان است.
درست که دارد به جنگ می‌پردازد اما خط داستانی مشخصی وجود ندارد و کُنشی اتفاق نمی‌افتد.
همه‌چیز در گذشته اتفاق افتاده و تمام شده.
شخصیت‌ها زندگی‌شان را برای مُنشی یا پادوی هتل تعریف می‌کنند اما خواننده که منشی و پادوی هتل نیست که مجبور باشد به وراجی آن‌ها گوش دهد بی آن‌که بداند قرار است این خاطرات به کجا برسند!
انرژی داستان در صد صفحه‌ی ابتدایی فروکش می‌کند و انگار احساس می‌کنی قرار نیست جز بازشنویی وقایع زندگی آدم‌های این خاندانِ درگیر جنگ، چیز دیگری دستت را بگیرد.
Ο Χάινριχ Μπελ ήταν στη Γερμανία από τις σταθερά αντιναζιστικές φωνές, αν και δεν γλίτωσε τη στράτευση στον Β’ Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο, όπου έχασε και τα δάχτυλα των ποδιών του από κρυοπαγήματα.
Αυτά τα χρόνια της λήθης και της σιωπής, ο Μπελ δεν σταμάτησε να μιλά για αυτό που συνέβη, δεν έπαψε ποτέ να θυμάται.Η πλοκή στο «Μπιλιάρδο» εκτυλίσσεται όλη μέσα σε μία μέρα, την 6η Σεπτεμβρίου 1958, μέρα των γενεθλίων του Χάινριχ Φαίμελ, ογδοντάχρονου περιώνυμου αρχιτέκτονα που έκτισε με μανία ένα σωρό κτήρια.
It is also such a rarity… The novel takes place during one day in 1958 in Cologne.
It reminds also that the spectre of Evil is never far away; it just reincarnates into different shapes and forms.
It asks the question what is better to build or to destroy?
It reminds us that there were many Germans who never supported the Nazis and they were the victims as well as everyone else.
There were a few places in this novel that moved me close to tears, which is extremely rare for me.
Red-green, white-green, from the billiard balls new figurations emerged like so many signals.
Then were swiftly scattered.
Leaving naught behind.
Music with no melody, painting without likeness, quadrilaterals, rectangles, rhombs, endlessly multiplied.
Clicking billiard balls caroming from green cushions.This is a wandering meditation in post-war Germany, through ruined abbeys and thought pleadings of and for the dead.
It is wry and humorous at times, but a deeply sensitive book.
It is about families after war, their tics and habits, and repeated phrases.
God's Little Lamb and The Host of the Beast.
He is a complex writer, but also a sensitive one.
This is a wonderful, wonderful book -- and it has made me a fan of Böll -- the writing is lovely, humane, a spirit of dignity... I found the ending somewhat less satisfying, as there were too many loose threads, and so the missing star. But this remains a wonderful read, and the discovery for me of a magnificent voice.
The book is "set" on his 80th birthday, so why not a little autobiography from a guy who almost literally created himself.Ch 5: Johanna, Robert's mother, narrates from inside the sanatorium leading up to and following a visit from her son and/or husband, but not during?Ch 6: Back to Robert.Ch 7: Pingponging between Schrella (Robert's childhood friend finally returned from exile) and Nettlinger (the alleged "catalyst" mentioned in the blurbs that you should ignore).Ch 8: Joseph, Robert's son, narrates—an architect in training (his father & grandfather are also architects, but of very different stripes)—as does his fiancée Marianne.Ch 9: Schrella again.Ch 10: Robert again + his daughter Ruth.Ch 11: More from Johanna, this time she's "talking to" the general under whom her son served in World War II and narrating her plan for her husband's birthday party.Ch 12 & 13: Narrative orgy.Character & Plotishness Notes:Robert Faehmel is Mr. Rigid.
Heinrich Böll's novel is about three generations of German architects who struggle with the impact of two World Wars and Nazi oppression.
Their friendships, families, and psyches are shattered, and the fragmented narrative of the novel reflects this reality, where memories are always ever-present, like the ruins of the city after the war.
The symbolism is clear (and heavy-handed at times): under the thumb of the Beast, an entire generation of Germans became sterile, unable to build upon the achievements of their parents, but only destroying, at the behest of the Nazis, the great civilization handed to them.
I almost missed an ultimately great experience with this book because the first pages did not seem to be repaying the effort. Unnecessarily esoteric, I thought.But I gave it a rest, then plunged into the middle and, as in other cases, it became easy to like and impossible not to care about. It's a marvelous novel.
His words suck you in, diving into his stories feels like a spiderweb that's slowly wrapping you up.
It's impossible to approach his work today without this in mind, but back when his fourth novel, Billard um halb zehn was published, the topic of what it meant to be part of a postwar Germany hasn't been explored to the degree to which it has been reflected upon now and it made him one of the first authors to write about it.
A Mosaic of MemoriesThis novel reads like a puzzle.
και μετά, και για τον οποιο τοσα εχουμε διαβασει και μελετήσει έκτοτε, μας είναι πλέον οικειος αλλά δεν ειναι μονο αυτό.
Πιστευω ότι είναι ένα βιβλιο που θα πρεπει να διαβαστεί από όλους όσους ενδιαφερονται για την κοινοτοπία του κακού καθώς και για τον τρόπο που η λήθη ή η προσπαθεια συμφιλίωσης με τους εκπροσώπους του σκοταδιού επενεργεί στο παρόν και στο μέλλον όχι μονο μιας χώρας αλλά μιας ηπείρου.
Τέλος δηλώνω μετά παρρησίας οτι αυτό το βιβλίο δεν είναι για να διαβαστεί μόνο μια φορά, νομίζω μάλιστα οτι την δεύτερη θα το απολαύσω ακομη περισσότερο!
Ajajajaj, tohle tedy zaböllelo!Jednou to prijit muselo.
Tohle vsechno by bylo moc fajn, ale mit jedenact vypravecu a situovat vetsinu knihy do jejich vnitrnich monologu a vzpominek bylo vice, nez kolik muj mozek dokaze vstrebat.
Ten sice neni v kdovijake forme, kolikrat mi treba stara napise kup rohliky, mleko, vajicka a ja ani tohle nezvladnu a prinesu domu akorat rohlik a lahev vina, ale presto si troufnu tvrdit, ze Böllem zvolena forma to pro me naprosto zabila.
Jeste na stopadesate strance jsem doufal, ze se dostanu do rytmu, ale nestalo se.
466. Billiards At Half-Past Nine, Heinrich Böllبیلیارد در ساعت نه و نیم - هاینریش بل (سروش) ادبیات آلمان
I have no idea whether Boll had admired or read Faulkner, but “Billiards,” both structurally, with its constantly changing voices, and thematically (National Sin), certainly reminded me of Absalom, Abasalom.
But Faulkner hit a home run with his novel (one the greatest in American Literature), and Boll, with his attempt to reconcile the past with the present, blinked.
Don’t get me wrong, there are soaring passages in Boll’s novel that rival anything I’ve read in literature.
(Boll numbingly reminds us throughout the novel of those who took the Host of the Beast.) And Hindenburg, of course, opened the political path for Hitler.
Strongly antiwar, hated the guts of Germany's militaristic leaders during both world wars yet, due to circumstances of self-preservation, became a commander of retreating German forces [mainly due to his expertise in blowing things up:] during the waning days of the second war and was responsible for the senseless demolition of an abbey which was built by his father and was the latter's top architectural achievement.The book's "present time" is in the late 50's although there are a lot of flashbacks and recollections, mostly of deaths in the family[Robert lost his wife and siblings during the war:].
So the book demands complete attention from the reader.Maybe Boll just experimented with this difficult style in this novel.
The story is told by almost a dozen different narrators that help piece together a story of coming to terms with the compromises large or small that were made during the wars in Germany. I think that the writing in the book is worth five stars, I did not personally like the style of flashbacks and memory, so it was a 4 star for me. The book was a clear denunciation of fascism and the crimes of many regular Germans, including the Catholic church. Although the wars are over, the battles within each person affected continue on.
Ασηζητητί πεντάρι και για την μετάφρσαση και για την έκδοση. Διαβάστηκε δύο φορές γιατί μια δεν φτάνει.
German Literature, dealing as it does with the haunted legacy of Nazism, Germany's collective guilt in the post-war years, and the burden of memory, as reflected in the account of one German family, the Faehmels.
Through each man's flashes of memory and varying viewpoints, we bear witness to the terrible price this one family paid for the strains of nationalism and militarism that defined the Kaiser's Germany and which reached their terrible climax in the rise of the Nazis.
In some of the novel's most harrowing sections, the story's narration shifts to the institutionalized wife of the old man, who was finally driven mad by so much loss and pain during the course of WWII.
En voor een goed begrip zou dat wellicht heel goed zijn!De dramatische gebeurtenissen betreffen drie generaties Fühmel (allen architect) maar spelen zich allemaal af op één dag, dus er zijn veel flashbacks.
De steeds terugkerende begrippen ‘Weid mijn lammeren’ en ‘Sacrament van de buffel’ waren mij geheel onbekend maar zijn voor het begrip van de roman essentieel dus die heb ik nagezocht.‘Jullie weldaden’, zei Schrella zacht, ‘zijn bijna nog verschrikkelijker dan jullie misdaden’.
Wat ik zo vreemd vind, ik kan me vergissen maar heb het idee dat Böll al in de vergetelheid aan het raken is...
کتابهائ هاینریش بل همواره نفس آدم را بند میاورند و نمیتوانی تا تمامشان کنی ؛ آنها را به زمین بگذاری.
فرم روايت داستانو به شدت پسنديدم كه هى راوى و زاويه ديد تغيير ميكرد،،اما به نظرم بهتر از اينم ميتونست باشه،، سخته انتخاب تعداد ستاره واسش...
کتاب روایت یک روز یک خانواده آلمانی در آلمان 1958 یعنی سیزده سال پس از اتمام جنگ است و از زبان راوی های متعددی روایت می شود خانواده فهمل که معمار هستند و روزهای سختی را پشت سر گذرانده اند.
کتاب پر است از تک گویی های متعدد شخصیت ها،سیلان جریان ذهنی آنها ، هذیان گویی و پرش های زمانی که مدام بین حال و گذشته در تغییر است.
همچنین به آیین مسیحیت در کتاب توجه ویژه ای شده است.
برای اینکه از جریان کتاب دور نشوی باید به سختی به بدنه آن بچسبی.
در حالت کلی کتاب بسیار خوب و سختیست.
Set over three generations of architects and told from the perspective of over 10 narrators, it’s the kind of novel that you have to just relax into and go with the ebb and flow backwards and forwards between the First World War and 1958.It wasn’t the kind of book that you come away with having learned something desperately new.
While it’s obvious that the former stand for the Nazis, by not stating this explicitly, Böll is able to construct a novel whose characters could be any society in any era of history.
Sometimes, you get the impression that the characters are standing on a stage, and the light goes on one of them, and they speak to themselves, or to the others; but the ones in the dark don’t speak back, the one in the light speaks for them.
It’s wrong to set formulae free from their rigidity, and put secrets into words, and transpose memeroy into feeling...The Church figures heavily, its role in a society, its use of doctrine, its overall sense of social enamel.
The development of the human being (or, soul, if you don’t mind that word) through his or her interaction with everything that is-not-him, is-not-her—what is partaken of.
