https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18428067-a-constellation-of-vital-phenomena
The history of ethnic strife in Chechnya is long and confusing.
Anthony Marra bypasses the facts and figures and takes us directly into the lives of ordinary people trying to make a meaningful existence amid the rubble and death and ongoing violence.
These are the sins for which they are now seeking absolution, whether from a higher power or from those they have wronged.I'm a picky reader, and my friends tell me I'm a hard grader when I rate books.
Anthony Marra is one of those who deserves all the praise he's receiving.
Recently mesmerized by a stunning debut, one that made me step back and look at the people in my life a little more appreciatively, I found myself craving something along the same lines—a story with a deep and resounding message.
Anthony Marra drops the reader into the midst of the second Chechen war and spends zero time on the background of the region, giving the reader very little to draw from.
It took a bit to get my bearings and situate the cast, but it wasn’t all in vain.Marra presents a character-driven novel and flits back-and-forth between the first Chechen war that started in 1994 and the midst of the second in 2004.
Soon our cast of characters will expand and we will meet Akhmed's wife, Havaa's father, Sonja's sister, and other residents in the village of Eldar, each of them with a story to tell.One of my favorite characters was Sonja, a tough doctor who left Chechnya to attend medical school in London, but she returned to her war-torn country to try and help her sister, Natasha, who later disappeared: "Though she was the elder, Sonja was always thought of as Natasha's sister, the object rather than the subject of any sentence the two shared.
Άλλη μια μέρα ή νύχτα ζωής που καθώς είναι κυριευμένη απο θηριωδία κομματιάζει ψυχές και σάρκες.
Την ώρα που βουλιάζεις σε πολεμικές αιματοβαμμένες σκηνές καταστροφής,σε οικονομικά συμφέροντα χωρών που συγκρούονται και πετούν μέσα στο «πετρέλαιο» χιλιάδες, άπειρες ψυχές ως εθνικές απώλειες, την ίδια ώρα επιλέγει να σε κεράσει λίγο οξυγόνο ελπίδας που το πληρώνεις ακριβά επειδή ο νους δραπετεύει και αγωνίζεται να βγει απο το βαθύ σκοτάδι αλλά καταλήγει στην εσχατιά όσων δεν μπορεί να αντέξει.
Κάπου στο βάθος αχνοφαίνεται το λιγοστό φως της ελπίδας για ζωή και λύτρωση.
As well as being the most cleverly structured novel I’ve read all year A Constellation of Vital Phenomenon also features some of the most memorable characters.
Ostensibly the novel is set in Chechnya though in many ways the novel depicts a generic modern war and the terrifying lawlessness that prevails in an invaded country.
As with most novels set during wartime it’s easy to care about the characters whose survival is threatened on a daily basis.
Survival is often depicted as the struggle to keep memory of loved ones alive.
Ostensibly it takes place over five days but the numerous flashbacks scatter compelling mysteries throughout its pages.
The story began as eight-year-old Havaa watched her house burn down from the relative safety of the forest she was told to hide in when the Russian soldiers arrived.
A secondary set of characters got POV spotlights as well, including Akhmed’s physically and mentally compromised wife, Havaa’s loving father who had just been taken away, Sonja’s beautiful (better liked, now missing) sister, and an old villager named Khassan who had written a massive history of the Chechen people.
It's a good bet his book of short stories, The Tsar of Love and Techno, will influence my eventual view.
In common with other contemporary American writers (Foer, Krauss, Lethem and the Australian Peter Carey) Marra’s characters are all of the quirky and socially dysfunctional variety – a 21st century tribute to Dickens’ groundbreaking legacy.
How, for example, the best novels create a new human archetype - Don Quixote, Heathcliff, Madame Bovary, Anna Karenina, old man Karamazov, Rhoda, Molly Bloom spring immediately to mind.
For all DeLillo’s stunning prose and uncanny percipience regarding the modern world he hasn’t really created a new character.
It’s very clever, for example, how five days in the novel bring to a head the emotionally fraught events of ten years in the lives of his characters.
So many glowing reviews made me think that it was going to be a book that I would going to remember for a very very long time, that too in a good way.Story revolves around Akhmed who is taking care of his bedridden wife, but has to leave her behind to take his neighbor’s daughter, Havaa, to local hospital.
Most of the times I was few pages in before I realize that I was reading events from past.2)	Different story lines took too long to converge in the end.
Other than Akhmed and Khassan, none of the character was impressive.
Upon starting this book I had heard of Chechnya. I couldn't point it out on a map though. Or even have told you what part of the world it was in. This book takes you there. Not just in mind..but in spirit also. The author states he chose to write about this area after hearing about the death of journalist Anna Polikovskaya from her reporting she did from Chechnya. He read up on the non-fiction reports he could find from the area. I'm glad he did it. My eyes would have glazed over from the enormi
Upon starting this book I had heard of Chechnya.
This book takes you there.
The author states he chose to write about this area after hearing about the death of journalist Anna Polikovskaya from her reporting she did from Chechnya.
He hides her with a frustrated Russian Doctor named Sonja.
Sonja and Akhmed are amazing characters.
I'll remember Akhmed for a long time after finishing this.
The story takes place over 5 days..5 days that will stick with the reader long afterward.
For a first book this book is absolutely amazing.
Most of the story takes place in a few days in 2004, with flashbacks to the two periods of invasion of Chechnya by Russian Federation forces in 1994 and 1999, which was marked by massive civilian casualties by bombings and artillery strikes.
Two hundred meters in, raising his head in a long scream, he tore a hole in the silence through which he could walk more freely.Here is an example that does well at first in capturing Akhmed’s shock of dealing with a victim of a landmine, but to me it overreaches toward the end: … he wasn’t the first man he had seen writhing like a noodle in a pot of boiling water, not the first he had seen with half his shin hanging by a hinge of sinew.
4.5 Stars “When they took him, he held your name right there in his chest, and you were with him, even if you didn't know it. When he reached the end, he did not die. He called your name and began to live in you.” ’A Constellation of Vital Phenomena’ is Anthony Marra’s debut novel. If you’ve read this, then you’ll understand how unfathomable that seems to me, and likely so to most people when they’ve just finished reading this. Set in a snow-covered village in Chechnya, The Chechen Republic, aft
Set in a snow-covered village in Chechnya, The Chechen Republic, after the dissolution of Soviet Union, this story takes place between the years 1994 and 2004, weaving back and forth through time.
This was a hard book for me to read, overwhelmingly bleak, filled with despair at times, and while there was almost no real reason for hope, these characters hold onto hope as though it were a lifeline as tangible as food, water and shelter.
There are books we love for the way their beauty makes our heart soar, or for the thrills we find inside their pages, some for the things we learned while reading them.
At the end of their time together, they tell the stories to the larger group, taking on the persona of their partner — an exercise, McCann said, in “radical empathy.”"Radical empathy being one of the reasons why I need literature in my life like water, food, air and love, reading "A Constellation of Vital Phenomena" was a shock to me in the best sense of the word.
An essential and extraordinary experience told through the lens of a handful of characters whom I will never forget.Anthony Marra's writing is something to behold, muscular and evocative, bold and infinitely delicate at the same time.
It is a book about human connection and about how little acts of kindness can create more kindness.
It is beyond impressive.While I didn't quite love this as much as I loved Marra's second book (The Tsar of Love and Techno), I still think it is an exceptional novel with unbelievable depth to it.
While this is a very rewarding book it is also a very human one.
Marra does not sacrifice substance to achieve style and his book is as emotionally rewarding as it is intellectually impressive.I cannot wait to see what Anthony Marra creates next!
A Constellation of Vital Phenomena is such a book.How can a debut novelist write like this lyrically and searingly?
A number of original and whimsical characters were woven into his rich tapestry of words, and for many pages, I wondered just why such-and-such character was being portrayed in great detail.But then it all started coming together, and – wow oh wow.
The title comes from a description of life in a medical book: Life is a constellation of vital phenomena – organization, irritability, movement, growth, reproduction, adaptation.
Rather than embrace Ramzan’s view of the world, this book shines a spotlight on the true meanings of love and sacrifice, and the lengths we will go to connect and endure.
This is a book that made me pause, reflect and pause again.
To say this was an excellent book would be an understatement.
The story takes place in worn torn Chechny and flashes back over the characters lives during 5 precious days.
It begins with the horror of a father, Dokka, taken violently away by the Feds during the middle of the night.
He saves his 8 year old daughter, Haava, by forcing her out into the black of night with her already packed suitcase.
The story traces the character's lives and the moral choices they have made in their struggle to survive.
Here, in fresh, graceful prose, is a profound story that dares to be as tender as it is ghastly, a story about desperate lives in a remote land that will quickly seem impossibly close and important.“A Constellation of Vital Phenomena” opens in a tiny, blood-soaked village of Chechnya, that part of the world that drifts into our consciousness only briefly — when, say, the Russians crush it again or, more recently, when young zealots detonate pressure cookers in Boston.
I know how I felt while reading this book, but why?
Why near the conclusion did I just listen to get to the end?This book is set in a small Chechen village in 2004, thus during the Second Chechen War. The story is told through numerous flashbacks.
It is confusing, not so much because of the different time settings but because the author never says anything directly.
After reading it, have I a more detailed, better understanding of the Chechen Wars?
No.Most people seem to be head over heels in love with this new author.
Akhmed, Khassan, Ramzan, Dokka, Sonja, Natasha, Havaa, these are all the main characters of Mr Marra's powerful novel.
The novel spans ten years, telling the story of three families who were neighbors in Eldar, as well as two sisters who lived in Volchansk.
Within that suitcase lies a key to Natasha, but that key is not revealed until the novel's conclusion.There are other sad poignant characters we meet like Khassan and his informant son, Ramzen, who were neighbors of Akmed.
In what he calls his Bibliography, Marra credits Anna Politkovskaya’s A Small Corner of Hell: Dispatches from Chechnya, Åsne Seierstad’s The Angel of Grozny: Orphans of a Forgotten War, and Allah's Mountains: The Battle for Chechnya, New Edition by Sebastian Smith for giving him much of the background he needed to imagine this place, in this time, a ten–year period between 1994 and 2003.
3.7 rating for me!This story is set in Chechyna between 1994 and 2004: Interesting 'wartime' history --(I actually wish this book had developed more visuals of the Chechen 'culture' than it did) --as I didn't know much about clashing cultures of the Chechnian State within Russia.
I wanted to know more about 'why' Natashia left?
How, who, why, when ...(what conversations went along with it?) The strongest parts of the books (for me) were: ...The beginning and the ending....My favorite character was Akhmed...Dr. Sonja is a kick!
(too funny).Weakness: The book feels a little long.Overall: 'Most' of the time --this story is gripping-engaging!
Oh, what a joy to read a fully-realized, beautifully written, totally engrossing novel.
The novel brings to life the cruel absurdities of war with moments of light and humanity.
I knew little of Chechnya, and Marra does a masterful job of supplying enough information without weighing down the narrative.
This, too, can feel satisfying--yes, life will go on from all this awfulness--but I felt the heavy hand of the novelist here, a little too much.
(I admit I cried multiple times.) I'm looking forward to Marra's story collection and future work.
In a small rural village in Chechnya, eight-year-old Havaa watches from the woods as Russian soldiers abduct her father in the middle of the night and then set fire to her home. When their lifelong neighbor Akhmed finds Havaa hiding in the forest with a strange blue suitcase, he makes a decision that will forever change their lives. He will seek refuge at the abandoned hospital where the sole remaining doctor, Sonja Rabina, treats the wounded. For Sonja, the arrival of Akhmed and Havaa is an un

Reviews have hailed it as everything from "brilliant" and "haunting" to "a flash in the heavens that makes you look up and believe in miracles." One reviewer even said this book "restores my faith in the future of the novel all over again."One day, in a snowy village in war-torn Chechnya, eight-year-old Havaa hides as Russian soldiers abduct her father, Dokka, in the middle of the night.
Their kindly neighbor, Akhmed, fears the worst when he sees the soldiers setting fire to Dokka's house as they take him away, but he rescues Havaa from her hiding place.
As life pulled some of the sisters away from the story they became really lost with their focus and had to leave the coulee and return back to read this at another time.
Leaving three sisters and myself in a coulee continuing to read this story together.A Constellation of Vital Phenomena is a complicated plot with many side plots and characters and we found it easy to get lost in the plot and at times felt we missed some connections between characters in this delicate web of connections.
Loads to discuss with this one and we also recommend not to be missed for book clubs who come together in person to discuss the plot and characters.
Μεγαλύτερη, σε έκταση και πληθυσμό, από τις δημοκρατίες αυτές ήταν η Ρωσική Σοβιετική Ομοσπονδιακή Σοσιαλιστική Δημοκρατία, η οποία, μετά την πτώση της Ε.Σ.Σ.Δ., μετεξελίχθηκε στη σημερινή Ρωσική Ομοσπονδία.
Τον Δεκέμβριο του 1994, λοιπόν, ξέσπασε ο Α΄ Πόλεμος της Τσετσενίας ανάμεσα στη Ρωσική Ομοσπονδία και τη Δημοκρατία της Τσετσενίας.
Γιατί ακολούθησε και δεύτερος (Β΄ Πόλεμος της Τσετσενίας), όταν τον Αύγουστο του 1999 οι ρωσικές δυνάμεις εισέβαλαν ξανά στα εδάφη της Τσετσενίας, ανταπαντώντας στην εισβολή που προηγήθηκε ανταρτών (Ισλαμική Ταξιαρχία Προστασίας της Διεθνούς Ειρήνης) στη Δημοκρατία του Νταγκεστάν.
The passage (actually one long sentence) is about a younger brother along with his family (whom the readers never see again) at the village doctor's (a better artist than he is a doctor) to describe his 'disappeared' older brother in order for the doctor to draw his portrait.
The technique creates tension in the reader that merely hints at (thank goodness for us) the tension felt in the daily lives of these characters, who are not participants in the wars, but villagers and a few remaining city-dwellers trying to survive as best they can.The one torture scene is like a feverish nightmare that feels even longer that it actually is, one you want to read between your fingers, but the book needs it to be there and you are grateful for it being only the one: it stays in your mind and stands for many more.
4.5 stars, rounded up to 5 because this is an exceptional first (!) novelI’d never really understood the conflicts in post-Soviet Russia and Chechnya, but Anthony Marra’s heavily researched and deeply moving novel taught me a lot and got me caught up in the lives of a handful of characters simply trying to survive those times.Over five days in a small town in Chechnya, the fates of several people – including two very different physicians (one brilliant, the other hopeless), a precocious eight-year-old orphan, an ethnic Russian involved in sex trafficking, a Chechen informer and his proud father, a historian who defended his country all over Europe – become intertwined.
It didn't make the shortlist, but personally I would have traded it with the Lahiri, since that book had similar themes to her previous works, and this felt new.
The author moves backwards and forwards in time, but always tells you exactly where you are at the beginning of every chapter, which starts from a timeline listing the years from 1994-2004.
Other readers have pointed out moments of humor to me, and while I wasn't ready to see them as funny while reading, they did have a balance, a humanity, that the senseless violence really needed.
For a young American writer to choose Chechnya as the subject for a first novel shows commendable ambition, and for the most part he gets away with it.
I had high expectations of this book after seeing a few recommendations from friends here.
When dealing with such unpleasant subject matter, the tone must be a tricky balancing act, particularly given the amount of humour that pervades it.
For all that, there is a powerful human story at the centre of the book and it manages to maintain a degree of hope, and the narrative is never less than readable.
A story of the transcendent power of love in wartime, A Constellation of Vital Phenomena is a work of sweeping breadth, profound compassion, and lasting significance.My Review: The Doubleday UK meme, a book a day for July 2014, is the goad I'm using to get through my snit-based unwritten reviews.
Today's prompt is the twenty-first, discuss a book you expected to hate but ended up loving.Life: a constellation of vital phenomena—organization, irritability, movement, growth, reproduction, adaptation.Yes.Now, there is always a matter of taste when it comes to appreciating or otherwise a given writer's work.
