https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6408862-stolen
My dad, trying to keep the morality of four teenage girls intact, complained about movies always doing that, making you root for something you didn't believe in.
I remember thinking "it's just a movie; you're supposed to want that," because I had wanted it.Christopher is a smart woman.
She realizes this power, that as an author, she can direct you in what you're supposed to want, who you're supposed to like, and what ending you're supposed to root for.
She makes you, the reader, experience Stockholm syndrome, so that by the end you're as conflicted as Gemma about the outcome and about your own feelings of Gemma's resistance and Ty's culpability.
This book completely reaffirmed my fascination with the beautiful land that is Australia.But the people who live there seem to want everyone to think it's a lot like this:Or this:Or even this:Gemma, just a regular 16 year old school girl, has been captured by a handsome and alluring young Australian man named Ty. Although Gemma seems to think so, it never feels like she's in any imminent danger, from Ty at least.
But I'm a sucker for a man with a hot bod and an Australian accent.Definitely, this is another of my favorite books I've read lately.
(Even though it's definitely going to be on top of my 'favorites' list.) I don't think I've ever cried so much while reading a book!
It was perfect.I wanted to read this book for so long, but couldn't get my hands on it.
There were times when I hated him for taking Gemma against her will, but when Gemma found out that she loved him, it was like I was falling for him right along with her.
It was all like this to me: ...I love Ty, he's amazing...wait, no he's not, he's a stalker and a kidnapper...but he's so sweet!...let go of Gemma you controlling creep...Oh my gawd he's so effin' hot!...
Spoilers… that’s it? Well, that was a shit fucking letter, wasn’t it? Can you even call that a letter? It’s just a recollection of everything that happened between Gemma and Ty. As if someone would be able to remember every conversation that had happened on every day for a month. It’s fine as a story, but I did not accept the letter concept. It reminds me of a certain Friends episode where Rachel and Ross are fighting and Rachel wrote him a letter.Ross: “I fell asleep!”Rachel: “You fell asleep?!
I mean, who wouldn’t love living in a fucking desert, away from every type of civilisation, hunting camels and kangaroos and possibly being bitten by poisonous snakes?
But when Gemma keeps whining, he promises that he’ll take her back to the real world if she still doesn’t love it after four months.
He loves Gemma, in his own twisted way.
But hey, he’s actually a pretty nice guy, so he doesn’t force his company on Gemma, which results in one of the most boring books I have ever read.
(did you know that Australia is the only continent where species of poisonous snakes outnumbers non-poisonous ones?)5) hallucinating6) kangaroos7) psychological terror and thrillingness!8) vehicular chases9) did I mention crazy guy?10) a supporting cast of chickensIt’s got a great sense of place and the character development is just fantastic (I love me some trauma), but the thing I liked best was that as Gemma, the main character, spends more time in the presence of her kidnapper, the author very, very, very skillfully messes with our brains just like Gemma’s brain is getting messed with.
Stolen is such a singular reading experience that its difficult to decide how I feel about it.Gemma is a sixteen year old English girl kidnapped by Ty and taken into the Western Australian outback where she is held prisoner.I had to give this book five stars for several reasons.
Never before have I felt a book to be so real, so gritty and tangible.This book is a journey into the world of Stockholm Syndrome and the craft of Christopher's skill left even me, feeling the effects of this baffling psychological problem.The characters of Ty and Gemma are fantastic.
She's a real sixteen year old.
So, the hype surrounding this book.....I've read a few books on the topic of kidnapping now, and I can safely say this one is my least favorite so far.
I liked that it was a bit different in that way.However, the entire story fell very flat for me, and I never cared about what was happening.
I didn't grow to care about Ty like so many people seem to, and I never really came to understand why he even took Gemma in the first place.
I need specifics in a book like this (read If You Find Me by Emily Murdoch for an example of a well fleshed out story).
(I would say the middle of paradise, but I understand she doesn't see it that way).I was scared this was going to be boring, I mean, I almost knew (view spoiler)[ they didn't even kiss  (hide spoiler)] but boy, I was waaaaaaaaay wrong, I didn't even need it.I know, a lot of my GR buddies cannot like a story about a kidnapper (yes, I am thinking about you Baba) but this is one is way different and I know most of my buddies don’t read YA anyway but I just wanted to say that Ty is not the typical kidnapper.
I hated some of the moments in this book- could not even begin to imagine myself feeling even the slightest bit of empathy for certain characters.
Before you know it, you're viewing this book in an entirely different light than when you started it.
Suddenly, your eyes have opened to the true heart of this book, and you understand.
It's confusing how this book makes you feel so much compassion for something so terribly wrong.
The story ends, and like Gemma, you find your heart aching for everything you finally understand.
Yes, this book is complicated.
I can't believe it took me this long to read it.
She was always wary, always looking for chances of escape, even though it was pretty much hopeless.And then there's Ty.I wasn't expecting to be so in love with him.
He is not evil or cruel in any way.
I loved how this book ended.
I loved everything about this book and oh my god forget about all those books that I've said are the best books I've ever read because this one tops every fucking list.
god, you guys, this book.
This fucking book.
I expected to love this book.
The premise was right up my alley - a psychological thriller, an exploration of Stockholm Syndrome, a story about a kidnapped person who finds herself emotionally attached to her captor.
But somehow Stolen didn't move me in any significant way.While I found the premise to be extremely interesting and pretty much a genius idea on Lucy Christopher's part, I thought the execution of this idea was lacking.
A book which centers on intricacies of human psychology ought to have realistic characters.
I still think Stolen is a great discussion book.
A heart only for Ty of course.What I loved about this book was Ty. Yes I know what he did was wrong, but the way the author wrote his character, makes your heart hurt for him.
He didn't want to hurt Gemma, he didn't want to touch her and torture her, but he kidnapped her and kept her in the middle of nowhere with him and that's definitely not okay.Still, as you read about him, he's nothing but a broken human being in need of love and care and god damn did he make my eyes sweat.
Okay... I just finished this book and I need to take some deep breaths and calm down a little- alright, here it goes! Sixteen year old Gemma is at an airport coffee shop in Bangkok when she sees him. Ty is in his mid twenties. He looks familiar to her, something about his beautiful blue eyes, but she can’t place him. He buys her a coffee, they chat, then she starts to feel funny. She has been drugged. She is being kidnapped. Now, meet Ty and Gemma:  When Gemma comes to, she is surprised. She is
He loves Gemma, he wants her, and only her, forever.
(view spoiler)[Because he loves her and wants her to be happy, he gives her a promise.
No matter how much he loved her and wanted her to stay.
He is sweet, kind, beautiful, and its really hard not to like him- in his head everything he did was for Gemma, because he loves her.
My favorite reason TY IS AMAZING (view spoiler)[At the end, he chose to SAVE GEMMA and stayed with her when he could have just left her at the clinic and got away.
Final rating: 5/5 stars   “How long will you keep me?" I asked.You shrugged. "Forever, of course.”    ATTENTION PLEASE!!!This book is FANTASTIC. WHY? because it's UNIQUE, and it's not usual KIDNAPPING STORY. It's something else entirely, and it's WORTHY OF YOUR TIME.Stolen is also quite REALISTIC, CREEPY and EXCELLENT STORY. And, the one thing that made me love it is THE UNIQUE WAY OF WRITING. This is a letter... a LETTER TO HER CAPTOR - LITERALLY. And it's  ENDING  was what  i loved the most. T
And, the one thing that made me love it is THE UNIQUE WAY OF WRITING.
(hide spoiler)].The characters were fabulous  and you understand both Ty and Gemma completely and utterly.
until i understood him, just like Gemma.
(hide spoiler)]).But, i have to say that in the end, i did like him, because of one thing:  He never made her do something against her will, except to stay with him.
And i will love it always, because its the most unique story i have read for a while, and there were so many feelings involved which is why this story deserves no less than five stars.I highly recommend it!!!!
They're pretty powerful, you know, those eyes, pretty beautiful too.So as you can read from the blurb, this book is written like a letter from Gemma to her captor.
Here is a hot guy with a lot of issues from LIFE.Here is a hot guy that has been watching Gemma for many years.
Ty also tells Gemma when he decided he wanted her in his life forever.
He was expressive in beautiful ways, he could see the good in nature and little things, he was always kind to Gemma even when she was trying to run away or when she would attack him.
♥ 5 CAPTIVATINGLY BEAUTIFUL STARS. ♥  "You saw me before I saw you..."  Where to even begin with a review on a story like this...Let me start off by saying that this was not an easy story to read. From the moment I started reading it, I felt like there were dark clouds looming over me and something bad was going to happen any minute. And I pretty much felt that way throughout the entire book, which explains exactly why I was so hesitant to start it at first. But in the end, I'm really glad I fin
But in the end, I'm really glad I finally did give this fascinating story a try because I ended up loving it and I've definitely found myself a new author to put on my favorite authors list.Stolen is written as a letter from the kidnapped young girl, Gemma, to the man who took her from her family and the life she knew, Ty. The way the author has written it, the story seems much more realistic than many other captivity stories I've read so far.When sixteen year old is on vacation with her parents, she meets the charming and trustworthy looking twenty-five year old Ty in a coffee shop at Bangkok Airport.
(hide spoiler)] Although, Gemma hates her new living conditions at first, she does start to appreciate the wonders of nature a bit more every day.
All you have to do is find a piece of paper and something to write with and start making strike marks for every scene in which Gemma should attempt to KILL Ty. I think I got up to 27 or so, with each murder becoming more devious and creative than the last.
She convinces herself that writing HELP in the desert sand won’t do any good, doesn’t think that the steel of the knife she hides is greater than the muscle of Ty and deludes herself when he starts telling her how long he’s been watching her.
Check.Recognized moments where the captor showed love and deep emotion toward the victim?
What a crafty author to be able to tamper with my moral compass without my awareness and create a story and situation where I wanted the captor to get an ending he really didn’t deserve.In Stolen Gemma is kidnapped from her family in Bangkok Airport and taken to the Australian Outback by Ty, an emotionally disturbed young man.
So much happened in this book and I think I internalized a ton of the emotion because I feel like I’ve been walking around in a daze since I started this story.
You see, this book is such a mind-fuck (excuse my language, but there is really no other better way to put it) because on one hand, you despise Ty for stealing Gemma, for taking her away from her home, for stalking her for so many years, for making her life miserable; but, at the same time, I despised Gemma whenever she destroyed Ty's art, when she hurt him with her words, when she mocked him and his love for his desert, when she failed to even try to understand him the way he so obviously understood her...Stolen isn't a romance and for 90% of the novel, Gemma is constantly trying to run away from Ty, to escape her predicament.
You saw me before I saw you. [image error]This book was just WOW!I fell in love with the characters but mostly with the writing style.To be more specific , this book is written like a letter,a letter to her captor, which means that she is refering to him.This is very beautiful because the reader takes part in the story and the book is alive.Gemma never thought that a friendly stranger could harm her.The story begins when she is in a coffee shop at the airport.There she spots a familiar face but

Did I...did I just experience secondhand Stockholm Syndrome through a book?Well, I'll be damned.(If only this were more realistic thriller than unrealistic romance.)
Stolen: A Letter to My Captor annoys me so much.At first I thought I'd like this story, because I'm deeply interested with Stockholm Syndrome and the conflicts between kidnapped victim and the kidnapper...and not to mention I had also tried my hand on writing yaoi fanfic with similar themes.
If Ms. Lucy Christopher didn't redeem her creation before the ending, I would write an Angry Letter to both Ty Selfish Creepy Kidnapper and Ms. Christopher after I'm done.If you are looking for some worthy drama between kidnapper and his captive, I suggest you to read The Collector instead.And here's my reaction to Tyler MacFarlane the evil kidnapper.Need I say more?When the review arrives, please be prepared for a lot of cursing and swearing.
The premise is so unlike any book that I've ever read and so original in its format: a letter written to the kidnapper by the 16 year old girl who was kidnapped.The main character, Gemma, is a strong and capable girl who actually makes smart decisions after being kidnapped by Ty. This is so refreshing because, although she is terrified after being kidnapped by a man who has been stalking her for six years, she still tries to survive.
I also loved how Stockholm syndrome came into play.
Everyone, including the reader, believes that Gemma is suffering from this syndrome and that is what is causing her to sympathize and later fall in love with Ty. However, I still questioned whether there was a part of Gemma that actually had fallen for him.
She really get you thinking about what is right and wrong and the place in between.
And the way Christopher vividly describes how stunningly gorgeous the land really is and how deadly it can be, makes it feel like it is another important character in this tale.When I think of Gemma the first word that comes to mind is brave.
Even though it is written from Gemma's POV, I felt we got Ty story as well.
He is a character that haunts your thoughts.
I know what he did was wrong and I should be disgusted by him but I liked him.
Soon the inhabitants built a well there and called the place 'The tears of the Desert'I know this is completely irrelevant to the review but this story floated into my mind while I was reading Stolen.Christopher has beautifully described the desert.
A moving letter about how she was kidnapped by him and her life in the desert with him.I would have honestly cried if I was in Ty's place if the letter was addressed to me.Ty, her kidnapper was lovely too.
The proud Aussie chick inside me was majorly pissed off with this book.An English friend of mine (who thinks he's fecking hilarious BTW) recently developed his own slogan for Australian tourism:"Snakes. Spiders. Jellyfish. Weather. Australia - countless ways to get assfucked by nature"- D. CrowleySo you see, we're having a hard enough time AS IT IS to entice the world to visit us without Lucy Christopher raining on our awesome parade. Further thoughts on the actual story to follow shortly...
4.5 StarsI’ve wanted to read Stolen for a long time.
Sadly, it was pushed to the side so many times, but I’m glad I finally picked it up because it was a powerful and gripping read.
He wants company in his remote desert “paradise” and somehow he thinks Gemma is perfect for that life,…perfect for him.
Ty was clearly unstable and socially stunted, but as I continued to read, my feelings softened toward him, much like Gemma’s did, so that we were both confused:
Did I want it to end like that?
Evil, but beautiful.
Gritty.I fell in love with Ty, the kidnapper.
He'd saved Gemma's life so many times and eventually sacrificed his freedom for her.
How can anyone not love him a little for that?
He just wanted to escape civilisation and when he spotted Gemma, who he believed was being neglected by her parents just as he was, he wanted to rescue her.I can't understand why people compare this to Living Dead Girl.
She (the camel) had my heart from then on.As you can tell I loved Ty but I also cared about Gemma.
Gemma and Ty together.
this is hands down one of my most favorite books I've ever readThe first time I read this was almost 4 years ago and at that time, I'm kind of ashamed to say that I didn't fully understand it.
But now that I've reread it, I JUST WANT MORE FROM LUCY CHRISTOPHER.
Like I wanna know what happened at the trial, how many years was Ty's sentence?
Ugh. I'm not very good at writing reviews but I wanna add one for the sake of this novel's greatness.
I don't know, I just really love it.
The writing was really good, it's gripping and extremely vivid.
Also, the song Where's My Love by SYML goes so incredibly perfect with this book.
Okay, imma use a Stephanie Meyer format:About three things I was absolutely positive.First, this is such a conflicting, heart-jerker of a read.Second, I ship?
I’m really trying to convey how damn much you’ll just feel after reading this book!Character time!Ty is messed up, unconventional to the max, and he‘s got the whole 'twisted-past-so-that's-why-he-is-the-way-he-is' thing going on.
feel.
Overall, this is just such an emotionally confusing, heart-wrenching, don't-know-if-I'll-ever-read-this-again-cuz-I-can't stand-the-thought-of-going-through-that-much-emotional-trauma-again kinda read.
Idfk what rating to give cuz I JUST FEEL!Well played Ms. Christopher, well played....
