https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58894.Daja_s_Book
Daja’s Book is the third in Tamora Pierce’s children’s fantasy book series, Circle of Magic.
The kids’ magics are even more tied up with each other than in the last book, to the point where it’s endangering them.
But she does it subtly and with cool magic and characters you can love.If I ever have kids, this is a series I will definitely be giving them, although I do hope that in future installments of the Emelan world that the kids are a bit more grown up, and the books reflect that.
The only reason it's four stars instead of five stars is because I didn't connect at all with some of the magic used here- there are times of the kids being magically away from their bodies, and that completely takes me out of the experience of the book.But that is literally my only complaint.
It continues the story of all of the kids, of course, and strengthens the CIRCLE OF FRIENDSHIP even further, but what stands out for me as different from Tris's Book is that Daja grows here, but only becomes truly more of who she is.
Small disclaimer: Daja has always been my favourite.Not just my favourite in the series, and not just one of my favourite Tamora Piece characters, but a favourite all-time character. As a child I was so, so envious of her ability to work metal, and her skill combined with her toughness and loyalty meant I was torn between wanting to be her friend and wanting to be her.So this full-cast audio version is simply perfect. I'm getting so addicted to these readings.Whoever has the Overdrive copy out of The Will of the Empress, will you please return it asap?
This book definitely had an emphasis on Daja and I really enjoyed it.
I've liked Daja ever since I first met her and I'm glad she finally got the chance to talk to another trader part of a caravan.
I think she really grew a lot in this book and the ending made me so happy for her.This book has the kids out on an adventure trying to help parts of the country with Sandry's Uncle the Duke.
They get into a far bit of mischief but they do manage to help some, especially since they have unique gifts and their bond with each other.
Pretty standard fare for this series. I continue to have difficulty imagining the magical workings.
Thrilling and emotional and wonderful. These books are amazing.
I love all the insight we get into Trader culture in this book, and all the new characters! Daja is amazing. Don't fuck with nature. Forest fires are serious business.
You can tell this book has really grabbed my emotional investment because I was just as upset about what might happen to their intertwined magic as they were.Other great things about this book were that weird magical metal plant Daja made, Polyam's entire character, and seeing the kids outside of Winding Circle.
I think I was sort of put off by them suddenly being outside the temple community in the beginning, but eventually I realized it's a great way to challenge them, and cool to see how their little circle of magic clashes with the rest of the world.
But Daja's Book is definitely a great installment.
The change of scenery is extremely refreshing for this series-- we get a lot of new characters, and our main cast is bumped out of their routines from Winding Circle.
The focus, obviously, is on Daja, and it delves deep into her Trader identity, but Briar gets a lot of attention as well [setting up nicely for the next book].
Woven together by Sandry a few months ago, we saw some bleed-through of their magics in the previous book but here, they have serious consequences.
It's natural that the weaving of their powers resulted in this, but these new powers can be both a benefit and a disaster.
During this tour, Daja runs into a group of traders - people of the culture that shunned her after her entire family died at sea.
But when disaster strikes, will the Traders allow Daja to help or will their pride get in the way?I am crazy about this entire series, it is one of my constant rereads.
Daja is an amazingly courageous individual and I have nothing but the utmost respect for her.
Her family dies and she gets exiled from the only life she's ever known but she is still so forgiving of her people.
Daja is more gracious than she has any right to be.
Daja raises her own questions about fame and envy.I hate people like those in Gold Ridge, more interested in status and showing off.That was unfair of Niko, scolding the kids for something they did when he never said anything before.Little bits of background are dropped by Sandry, Frostpine (the betrayal of his parents was huge), Lark, and the reason Polyam lost her status (damn these Traders are superstitious people!).The StoryFires are ravaging Gold Ridge Valley, and Duke Vedris has brought the kids to see what they can do to help.It's a new aspect of her magic, making metal grow, creating a net of metal that can smother fire.
And then if I remember correctly, 4 years pass between Briar's Book and the Circle Opens quartet.Thoughts on relationships: for all Tamora Pierce has said that Lark and Rosethorn were together, there is SCARCE evidence of it here.
No signs of Daja being gay yet, either, unless we were supposed to think she's stereotypically butch because she is a smith and is always described as not having a waist.As for racial diversity, I hadn't picked up as a kid that both Lark and Briar were described as having some eastern/far eastern traits, or that at least one of them is mixed.
The creation of that bionic limb was AWESOME and I really love how Tamora Pierce was able to combine the modern technology of today with the magic of this book to create something that was workable and believable in the environment while still making sense to the reader.Side note: (view spoiler)[Yarrun was a moron of the highest degree and I did not like him and his "there's only one right way to do magic and it's my way" attitude.
This one had more depth than the others. The characters are maturing, and as a result, the writing is too.
That said, this is the third --- yes, third book I've read in this series.
The reviews sounded great, and I think I like Tamora Pierce.
It's quite possible that this is another one of those unfortunate books (as is The Raven Boys series) that lost its stars due to the narrator.
I don't think it was a bad book, but when you're listening to someone that annoys you, you can't help but wish they'd shut the hell up already.
Anyway -- I don't know if I'll get around to the 4th and last book in this series.
:') :') :')
This was my favorite when I was younger, but holy ableism, Batman.

There's a lot to learn about Trader custom and ritual in this book.
Daja encounters some Traders, and has to deal with them labeling her as an unclean outcast.
It's pretty rough on her, though she does get the upper hand when she accidentally creates a living iron vine that they want to purchase.The rest of the Circle are dealing with their magics spreading to each other; Briar produces lightning, Sandry produces heat, etc.
It's up to Sandry to weave a map of their magics, as she's the one who spun them together in the first book.
Throughout the book the reader sees a lot more about Trader culture than ever before and certain things, like Daja not being as vocal as the other children, beings to make sense.
I feel like, with the third book in this four-part series, the reader is allowed to see more of the characters than the plot.
Things I LikedThe two things I liked most about Daja’s Book deal with her: the look into Trader culture and her feelings about being a trangshi.
I loved the exploration of magic, Trader culture, and Daja’s internal thoughts and feelings.
Unfortunately, that means that plant mage Briar is getting sparks of lightning that kill plants, and Daja gets out of control just like Tris.
They want to buy it - but noone is willing to communicate with Daja.Just like the other books in this series, there is a focus on the plot pushing forwards.The majority of this book is from Daja's perspective, although the other three children also have parts.
There is some character development, particularly for the children learning responsibility for their magics.In this book, it is possible to see how magic can kill someone, because they are trying to stop the forces of nature.
Because of the disaster that left Daja an orphan she is considered unclean and unlucky and is banished from having any dealings with her culture.
Also that Hubris is Bad. There aren't any enemies to fight and kill, so the violence is at a minimum but there is still a strong feeling of danger.
This is the first time one of the main characters has had a very close brush with death, which fits well with Daja as a character.
Actually I love how all of the danger in these books fit each character so far.
Now Daja has her physical enemy, and next we'll see that Briar's enemy is pretty fitting too.
It bit off probably more than it could chew, trying to balance Daja's personal development with Polyam the Trader, the ever-present forest fire, the four main characters (Tris contributed very little in this book, I was a bit disappointed there), the magical imbalance and blending that looked like it would be the central problem but wasn't - it was a bit much.
Like the magical blending of Daja's, Sandry's, Tris' and Briar's personal magics, this book was a bit of a cluster.But when the plot came back in, BOY did it make up for it!
Daja, the third member of the Circle of Magic, was born into the Trader culture; nomadic merchants who live according to their own rules and customs.
Because of her magic with fire and metal, Daja was brought to Winding Circle Temple, where she made new friends and began a new life.
But now, because of her magic and the magic of her friends, Daja has accidentally created a tree made of metal, which grows as if it were alive.
This, and the wildfires that are threatening the kingdom, may give Daja the chance she longs for to earn her place as a Trader again.
I love the part where she saves the trader caravan despite their treatment of her!
Go Daja!Edit: Added detailI always feel bad for poor Daja in this book.
I love learning more about the kids powers each book.
And sad/happy that Yarrun died.
I'm glad that Daja decided not to rejoin the Traders.
I always feel bad for Daja in this book as she more than any of the others has to try really hard to forget and move on from her heritage.
I grow to hate the traders more in this book and they only slightly redeem themselves at the end.

I'm enjoying this series more and more, and it's definitely improved a lot from the first book!
I find Tris and Briar's Magic a lot easier to visualize just because they're both things that I encounter regularly, but I don't have any experience in weaving or in metalwork and that makes it difficult to understand what Sandry and Daja are doing.
I also don't want to have to google stuff while I'm reading, so it's a little annoying not being able to get the full experience of their magic.
But other than that I'm really, really excited to read Briar's Book next because he's honestly my favourite character!!!
I think Daja is my favorite one of the bunch. Not only was the story interesting, but it also had a pretty dramatic plot. On the external level, the mages need to stop a series of fires. On the internal level, Daja has to come to terms with her role among her people. The characters are well-rounded with their own strengths and weaknesses and I still feel like this series doesn't get enough credit.
Here's where the series starts taking the threads it's set out until now and making them into really interesting stories. I liked this a lot. This is Daja's book, but it's not just her story: it really is the story of their interrelated magics, and the strange things that happen as a result. Living metal plants! Replacement limbs! Good stuff. Not particularly well-written, but good stuff nonetheless.
The Circle books are written for a younger audience than many of Tamora Pierce's novels, but they are still excellent. Daja's Book, the third in the series, is almost an environmental message of a book. It is intense, more so than either of the volumes that precede it, and will keep readers on the edge of their seats. It seems to carry a message about forest care, but can also be respected as a good young adult book.
