https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175113.The_Return_of_the_Prodigal_Son
Coming HomeThe Return of the Prodigal Son, 1636The Return of the Prodigal Son, 1642The Return of the Prodigal Son, 1668I was trained as an art historian, so I tend to look at Rembrandt's three versions of the parable of the Return of the Prodigal Son in terms of the artist's stylistic evolution: the baroque energy of the etching made when the artist was 30, the moving simplicity of the pen and wash drawing done six years later, and his final version, painted only a few months before he died, portraying the reunion of father and son almost as a holy ritual.
Nouwen reflected that the L’Arche community made him aware of his own limitations - "It is the place that confronts me with the fact that truly accepting love, forgiveness, and healing is often much harder than giving it."The best reward for me was reading Nouwen’s brilliant critique of Rembrandt’s painting and observing how this analysis dovetailed his exposition of the biblical text to elucidate the meaning of the parable.
Nouwen gave a very stirring description of the father’s love as depicted in Rembrandt’s painting and the parable - a love that is supposed to reflect divine love.
Father Nouwen's book forever changed me and the way I understood this parable of forgiveness, love and our relationship with God, the Father.
I first read this book in 2001 and was amazed to discover the richness and depth within the simple story told by Jesus, and also grateful to be introduced in such a profound way to Rembrandt's famous painting which adds layers of meaning to this amazing parable about the vital aspects of Relationship.
Recently I listened to the book on CD with a friend on a long car drive and—once again—I was struck by all that Nouwen drew out of a seemingly simple story.
A lot to chew on with this elegant and short reflection on both Jesus' parable and Rembrandt's painting of the return of the prodigal son. I especially enjoyed Nouwen's confessional writing style, which allows him to preach without being preachy and convict the reader without claiming to do so. The best part is Nouwen's discussion of the elder son, often neglected in treatments of the parable but whose own journey is perhaps most relevant to many Christians, including myself.
The discussion explores the characters of the younger and older brothers and the many ways in which they represent humanity; but the entire book culminates in an examination of the father, who is not only the final speaker in Jesus’ story and the visual center of Rembrandt’s piece, but also a personification of the nature of God’s love—a personification to which we all are called to aspire.On the whole, the book succeeds as a feel-good reassurance of God’s love for his people without resultantly serving up a mushy or watered-down theology.
In this way, The Return of the Prodigal Son serves not only as a source of emotional reassurance, but also as a firm challenge to the reader to take seriously the responsibilities inextricable from being the Beloved of God.
Today I see it as my call to help every person claim his or her own way to God." – Henri Nouwen The parable of the Prodigal Son in Luke 15 used to be my favorite Bible passage.
A meditation (in the Christian sense of the word!) on Rembrandt's famous painting, I settled in to enjoy the sensitive priest's insights into this beautiful picture of God's love.As I began reading, two things emerged by the end of the Introduction: Nouwen was a man who sincerely loved the Lord and His people.
Esta es la revisión que más me ha costado escribir. Por que lo que diga no reflejará lo que este libro puede transmitir. He disfrutado tanto leerlo y he aprendido tanto sobre cómo puede ser mi relación con Dios, que recomendarlo es poco, yo te diría que lo leas, y lo leas ¡ya!. Que lo medites y que te lleve a mirar a tu interior.
After finishing, and claiming no expertise in the matter, I'm going to say all pastors should read this book.
Yet the longer I am part of the community, the more that solidarity proves to be only a way station on the road to a much more lonely destination: the loneliness of the Father, the loneliness of God, the ultimate loneliness of compassion."The more I read Nouwen, the more I am impressed with his ability to conclude profoundly, leading me empathetically and subtly through knowledge of myself to surprising conclusions about who I can and should become.
This book has some crazily accurate descriptions of what a perverse need for human affirmation feels like, and how reception of God's love is the answer. The call to move from a son who receives love to a father who gives is also really striking. It was really interesting, and helpful, to see a treatment of the story that cast the younger son's severance from the father in terms of looking for affirmation wrongly and so-called 'cold' or 'spiritual' vices instead of lust.
The heart of the Bible is the parable of the Prodigal Son and Henri Nouwen's book on this parable is by far one of the best. I can read it over and over again and feel like I am reading it for the first time in my life. If you want to know what type of God we have in Christianity, then begin with this book and you will be proud that you are a Christian!

This is the familiar story of the Prodigal Son seen through the visual of the 17th painting of the subject by Rembrandt and analyzed from the perspective of the younger son, the elder son and the father. The author sees parts of himself and really of us all in all three characters. Ultimately he sees the great love of the father who never forces that love on others, but is always there filled with love, equal for both, when the others are ready and willing to receive it.
But, it is more than just a devotional book on the Biblical parable of the prodigal son; it is a devotional book on Rembrandt's Return of the Prodigal Son as well.
Nouwen takes you through the life of each of the character, considering it from the character's perspective, Rembrandt's perspective, his own perspective, the reader's, and finally Jesus Christ's.
In fact, so moved was I by this book, that I now own a print of Rembrandt's Return of the Prodigal Son and have it hanging in my home.This is a must read, I just don't know when you must read it.
I felt less alone after reading this book. I was encouraged by his firm grasp and pronouncement of the gospel, and by his vulnerability regarding his own flaws and trials. While I wasn't always engaged with some of the detailed art theory, that wasn't a majority of the book (although it is the main reason I knocked off a star). His love for God and desire to really know God is genuine and contagious. I look forward to reading more of his books.
While I don't agree with all of Nouwen's theology, this was a great book. There is a lot of insight here, not just about God as the Father, but about our relationships with other Christians.
4.5 starI think Marie O'Toole definitley has a point in her review of this book and I think you should be aware of these points of criticism  review Nonetheless I learned a lot from it and would recommend it with the sidenote to read it critically
I liked this book. Basically my wife's review covers exactly what I would say about the book as well.
He looks at the painting and parable in light of the three principle figures--the younger son, the elder son, and the Father.
Many authors have explored what it means to be the younger son lost in profligacy and the elder son, lost in his rectitude and resentment and Nouwen does this also.
He describes how Christ is both of these--the younger son in "becoming sin" and the elder son, in being the beloved Son who shares all things with his father.
My question is what does it mean to make the move from being the repentant elder son to becoming the generous father?

I read this book the first time over a decade ago and recently reread it.
This is vintage Nouwen.
In this book, Nouwen reflects on Rembrandt's painting  The Return of the Prodigal Son  and uses it as a window to look deeper into Jesus's favorite parable.
Nouwen helps us examine in the lost younger son, in the judgmental older son, and in the loving embrace of the father.
Each of the sons are recapitulated in Jesus--the true younger son who leaves his home with the Father to welcome us back; and the true elder brother who loves and welcomes his wayward sibling.
I wish that I could give this book 10 stars.
This and the Pursuit of God are my two favorite 'spiritual books'.
I wish for one day that I could crawl into Henri Nouwen's head and experience God as he does.
That would indeed be a wonder.
I relate to this book because I think in my life's journey that I have been the older brother (very self-righteous) and the younger brother...broken over the ways I have hurt others and completed broken from the things I have done; both sons so in need of Grace.I think you'll love this book.
Henri Nouwen writes a sort of exegesis from a painting of the Prodigal Son parable in the Gospel of Luke. Nouwen takes the reader through the inspiration he receives from careful prayer and meditation on the painting, and leads the reader to a better understanding of Gods Mercy.
Life changing. Helped me see the Father better.
Rich and complex, Nouwen explores Rembrandt's mysterious painting of the prodigal son and father, while discussing the deep meaning of God's love.
I will never look at any painting the same ever again, having seen the special and thoughtful way he analyzed every single movement, expression, and placement of the characters in the painting.
Lastly, he did a great job of talking about his life in context of what he was learning, but the book was not overly about his own story.
Lots of great quotes in this little book, but this is one of my favorites:The question is not, "How am I to find God?" but "How am I to let myself be found by Him?" Not, "How am I to know God?" but "How am I to be known by God?"
En algunas ocaciones hemos dialogado sobre la famosa Parábola del hijo pródigo, algunos se han sentido representados o identificados con el hijo pródigo, otros con el hijo "obediente", incluso hay quienes se contemplan como los que están observando desde atrás, etc., un proceso además de interesante de gran ayuda para la introspección personal.
El libro de Henri J.M. Nouwen, escritor, mentor y académico de grandes escalas, permite al lector pensar y reflexionar, con unos hermosos matices que además aportan formación afectiva e incluso artística.
Libros como este tienen todo, narrativa, formación afectiva e intelectual y sobre todo la semilla de un hombre que ha ayudado a millones de personas por amor y caridad, una vida así vale la pena ser vivida y compartida.
I read a chapter a day as part of my morning devotions and absolutely was drawn in to this book the first day.
I read to really look at the finer points and detail of the both the painting and the story.Not only did I love this book, I found myself looking at art differently and even began to look at more Rembrandt painting.This is a familiar story but Nouwen brings the story to life by including the art and his own personal spiritual journey.
I can see why Nouwen spent so much time looking and pondering on the original piece.
Rembrandt's life was discussed as well, about which I knew some but certainly not all that was provided by the author of the book.Nouwen, the author, is a Catholic priest who 'engaged in a long spiritual adventure' after seeing a poster of the Rembrandt drawing.
This adventure, including much self-analysis and attempt at understanding himself and his vocation, is presented in the book.
And truthfully, this reader was also compelled to do a great deal of pondering!In what appeared to me to be a unique but effective method of analysis, the book first considered the prodigal son, the younger son who left home and returned.
A wonderful journey through a parable that is changing my life!Using Rembrandt's painting, The Return of the Prodigal as inspiration, Henri Nouwen shares his journey in reflecting on the painting and the parable.
Nouwen uses his personal journey, full of trials and challenges, to bring to light how each of us is at some point in our Christian walk the younger son and the elder son.
He goes on to share how each of us will eventually be called to be mother or father.For me, the beauty was revealed in the shameless love God has for us and His acceptance of us where we are, even if we are covered in pig manure and almost broken.
Nouwen meditates on the parable of the Prodigal son, devoting time to understanding the Prodigal, the elder son, and the father.
He explores the deep love of the father, who yearns to bring his children home (where the children might live in/out of the fathers love).
He discusses what causes us to “leave home” as well as how we live apart from the father’s love even as we are in his household.
He finishes by considering how we might also become “father”, welcoming others freely into the generous, unconditional love of the Father.
This is a book I will continue to ponder and discuss for a long while.
