https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1910155.The_Wisdom_of_Confucius
The ruler’s first task is to “put in order his personal conduct and character.” Then, Confucius says the ruler “will understand how to govern men.” (2)As to the nature of that governing approach, Confucius says it is, generally, to follow the golden rule: “What you do not wish others shall do unto you, do not unto them.” The golden rule applies the universal moral law to the earthly sphere.
(9) Given the age parallels and trade contacts from Greece to India and China, it’s interesting that there are similarities between Confucius and Greek thought regarding eternal harmony, hierarchical class distinctions, the role of the sage ruler, the aim of perfecting human nature, the emphasis on true knowledge, and the role of the Socratic-like voice.
Perhaps it was the author's singular view so often expressed that left me cold or unhelped and perhaps distracted at times; perhaps it was that, having read several sources of this wisdom now, this one is not so different/better as to make the work of digesting it seem worth it; or perhaps it is that familiarity breeds contempt in the sense that Confucius's faults are also examined here and in so doing he is diminished/humanized in a way that impinges naturally (and negatively for me) on his philosophy.There is much gold to be mined here, but, truth be told, I am happy to leave it for a time and come back to it as the going is challenging.
We still need to learn something from this great sage who was born 2,562 years ago. Please allow me to verify from the Internet since I heard from a few TV reports on the event in China, some mentioned 2,565 therefore we understand why China has long been great as regards her history, culture, scholars, etc. They can tell you when Confucius was born, how come?

This is good for an introduction to the topic, or for a better understanding for those who may have no idea at all. The history of the life of Confucius was probably the most enjoyable section, as it cut out some of the unnecessary opinions of the author (some of which prompt a questioning of his own translation). The rest of the book was a bit redundant and disorganized at times. In short: While this book provides a good start, I am sure there are better sources available.
I read this to get a better understanding beyond the jokes and short sayings attributed to Confucius that you learn as a child.
While this book did give me a bit more of that understanding it does suffer from some unavoidable problems with the age of the underlying text.
After a leader or two in power destroyed writings attributed to him, what we are left with are reconstructions of things written on bamboo stalks.
This book, however, is likely only to be worth it to those that have an interest in this specific part of history.
Several discourses had direct copies in other places in the book (the sections on aphorisms and "Ethics and Government"), which made the book about twice as long as it needed to be in order to fully expound its message.Other than that, though, it humanized Confucius for me (putting the man behind that horrible, hideous visage), and taught me the correct way to read his Analects (which should be broadened out to encompass all forms of reading and thought).
The correct way being to take one or two statements a day, and to fully think over them and master their implications and nuances.
that's great book.
great philosophy, use music as ethics
its a good story
How to write a review? I knew practically nothing about Confucius, and now I know a significant amount. The book wasn't exciting, but it was readable and the editor explained things well.
