https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/524988.Classic_Ghost_Stories_by_Wilkie_Collins_M_R_James_Charles_Dickens_and_Others
Dover Publication has published numerous collections of short ghost stories, so many, in fact, that I always read two or three of them as Halloween approaches.
Classic Ghost Stories by Wilkie Collins, M.R. James, Charles Dickens and Others has eleven gems, the best of which are Sheridan LeFanu's "An Account of Some Strange Disturbances in Aungier Street"; Wilkie Collins's "Mrs. Zant and the Ghost"; Robert Louis Stevenson's "The Body Snatcher"; and M.
R. James's "Oh, Whistle, And I'll Come to You, My Lad."John Grafton has edited this collection.
GBut then, this book is in Dover's Thrift Editions series and theeby doesn't get the full editorial treatment.
Collections of short stories whether they be by a single author or several are fun to read.
One can complete a tale and muse about it before moving on to the next.
I have some favorites in this grouping."Mrs. Zant and the Ghost" by Wilkie Collins was a good one and probably my favorite.
To say much about why I like these tales would give them away.
I can only suggest that this collection is enjoyable.
Just a comment: There are good ghosts and bad ones in this series but you will have to discover them for yourself.
Some stories were great, some were chilling, some were boring and predictable, but there is a good balance in this collection. Most of them really are classic in their structure and themes. Some that were memorable are:Charles Dickens' "No. 1 Branch Line: The Signalman";Wilkie Collins' "Mrs. Zant and the Ghost";Mrs. Henry Wood's "Reality or Delusion?".Amelia B. Edwards' "The New Pass" is not so much a ghost story in my opinion but it is an interesting adventure story, while Robert Louis Stevenson's "The Body-Snatcher" reads more as a short anecdote told in musty pubs late at night.
I can't be bothered giving the other stories individual reviews. I've been away and can't even rely remember what I thought about the others anyway. Overall this book is exactly what it should be, except to really stand out it could have contained some stronger stories. M.R. James and all that were fine. But there were some less than thrilling stories as well. Basically a fun but average read. But if you like ghost stories, then by all means give it a go.
These stories were all written by various classical authors between 1853 and 1904. The writing is very different from what we are used to in the 21st century but still hold your attention and provide the required shivers and chills. I dare you to read these at night especially "Oh, Whistle, and I Will Come to You, My Lad" by M. R. James. Go ahead, snuggle down between the sheets and read. Feel the sheets, warm and close and.........
I didn't think that the writer's of yesteryear would be able to match the shock and gore that newer horror writers create in ghost stories, but I was very wrong. This collection was creepy and, to use a cliche - spine-tingling. I was gripped by every single story, but I have to say that Dickens was by far the most memorable, and the scariest.
Listening to this on a Digital Audio Device--I love these. I thought I might as well keep the theme going by reading Romantic authors from England, about England. These are fun and beautifully written.
The first one in the series was quite good. After that, they grow rather bland.
Some were better than others, but mostly very good.
The best was 'The Signalman' by Dickens. Other good ones were: 'Mrs. Zant and the Ghost' by Collins & 'The Body-Snatcher' by Stevenson.
My favorite of the eleven classic ghost stories was Mary E. Wilkins' The Lost Ghost
Nice array of stories, most of which I'd never read before.
This is a great little collection of ghost stories, several of which actually made me shiver. And it's a Dover Thrift Edition, so you can't beat the price.
Classic Victorian ghost stories.
