https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129603.You_Can_Heal_Your_Life
She takes beautiful, enriching concepts such as self-love, affirmation and forgiveness, and then tells people their illnesses are a result of not doing these things well enough.
Louise Hay seems to think she can eliminate all pain and illness with mindfulness and self-love, which is a fantasy.
Life is more complex than that - we can use self-love and affirmation to get through illness, but to think that we can eliminate pain by sheer force of will is setting ourselves up for failure, disappointment, and we're left blaming ourselves for not being able to sufficiently heal our bodies perfectly and completely with self-love.
I remember then that there was some interesting information in the book, but there were things that just didn't make sense to me then and now, looking at it again 20 years later, it still doesn't.
However, since she has never worked in the arena of medicine, mental health, or any other related profession, it makes it difficult to put a lot of weight in her arguments.Specifically, she fails to adequately address how serious birth defects, such as downs syndrome, spina bifida, infant AIDS, cerebral palsy and the like are connected to mental health.
While certainly once a person becomes cognizant of their emotions and surroundings, it makes sense to connect physical health with emotions.
This book has given me tools to get things DONE, to control my own thoughts and thought process, to put my powers to use for Good, and to make my passions work for me, instead of letting my thoughts, feelings, and FEAR get in the way of achieving my goals.Since reading this book I've: improved the relationship between my adopted child and myselfimproved the quality and communication of my marriageimproved my health and dietmoved my family into a bigger house in a better neighborhoodstarted going to night school to embark on a new careermade peace with my family situation, if not all family members- yetI still have lots of things left to clear out in my skeleton closet, it's not all butterflies and rainbows in my heart and mind, but I feel better and am finally getting past the fear that has held me back from doing the things I want to.
شفای زندگی از آن دسته کتاب هایی به شمار میاید که درست مثل آدمی شجاع و صریح هست که بدون هیچ ترسی و مراعات حالی ، با نهایت شجاعت، واقعیت پشت پرده مشکلات انسانی و درد و مرض های جسمی و روحی را به روی انسان میاورد و شدیدا تکانمان میدهد و ممکن هست خیلی ها مثل من موقع خواندنش بارها کنارش بگذارند یا کسانی حتی عصبانی بشوند و شاکی از حقایقی که لوییز هی نوشته و سعی میکند باعث بیداری مردم این دوره شود .
ترکیب عبارات تاکیدی این کتاب با روش ای اف تی بسیار شگفت انگیز و شفا دهنده خواهد بود که به همه پیشنهادش میدهم.
This is one of the most irresponsible feats that has ever been accomplished in publishing, and though I believe it could bring many some emotional relief as they use the processes that have been sampled from cognitive science, I also believe that it will and has brought to many a sense of guilt and self-blame regarding the tragedies of their lives.This book will claim a science to healing, but there is no institution (including Hay's) that offers hard proof of these facts.
This is a tough book for me to admit to.
Because its self-help.
And its got goofy-sounding psuedo-science around the edges...and its hippy flakey commie witchy woman so on so forth...
everything that is the opposite of how I indentify myself.But damn.
The core of it is one revolutionary idea that I can't disassemble, with any amount of cynicism or logic.
And that is: I'm choosing my life.
All sadness, failure, struggle in my life...I'm creating it, ASKING for it, even.
And it can change.
Its a beautiful object, this book.
I can't say my life is healed or changed yet.
But this book makes me happy.
Louise Hay told a generation of dying gay men that it was their fault they were dying because they didn't love themselves enough. Her basic premise is that if you just love yourself enough, you'll never get sick. A stupid premise, to be sure. The hiv+ community of the mid-80s, looking for any hope to hang onto, desperately embraced this book and its author, and she returned their devotion with the disrespect any common carnival con artist shows their mark. This book is indefensible and she should be ashamed.
Dear Oprah, I typically appreciate your literary leadership. "The Secret" and I have had some good times together. I even enjoyed A Million Little Pieces despite the lies. However, you have dropped the ball on this one. This chick is crazy! She has some good ideas, sort of, but wow this one was hokey hokey hokey. I forced myself to read it, and I wish I hadn't. Feel free to make it up to me by sending me a new car.
I have read many "self help" books...this one is metaphysical
I couldn't finish this one due to high levels of disagreement & seeing flames ;]While I agree that our physical states are tied to our emotional ones, I don't think breast cancer or HIV affects people who just didn't love themselves enough. Her approach tries to be inspiration but just ends up blaming the victim.No thanks.
I heart this book!
I read it when I was fifteen and it changed the way I structured my thinking.
Hay sent about a dozen copies to my mom and she handed them out to a bunch of my friends.
I have bought copies for so many people over the years because she offers such a great way to think about life.
It puts the reader in the realization that we have a life we can learn to love and we can use the tools in her book to change it.
It’s pretty much a psychology book with spiritual undertones
It puts the reader in the realization that we have a life we can learn to love and we can use the tools in her book to change it.
I have to say that this book lightly touches these concepts and so it is a great read for someone who would know nothing about psychology or spirituality.
She basically says that diseases start in ones mind and we draw certain things to our bodies because our minds are thinking certain negative thoughts.
What happens to our bodies are a direct manifestation of whatever negative thing is going on in our mind.
If v're willing to do the mental work, almost anything can be healed...
I refer to the 'Heal Your Body' section often if I am sick or I have an ache or pain, to learn the positive affirmation to say to 'release' the physical ailment.
I saw the author, Louise Hay, on Oprah maybe 8 years ago and was instantly compelled by her sincerity, knowledge and compassion to buy this book.
positive thoughts, connection.
I have worked in the medical field for over 20 years and work hands-on daily with patients with all sorts of mental and physical ailments and diseases.
I have witnessed first-hand the power of positive thought and positive action at work, even with those who are severely injured or sick.

Still trying to figure out WHY, but I have some inklings.I think, if you read this book and do the suggested affirmations and exercises when YOU are in the right emotional place to do them, this book could potentially be life-changing.
There's so much good here, so much about rejecting negativity and embracing one's one loveability and worthiness, I think everyone should read this book.That said, my mother died of breast cancer.
Perhaps I don't want to accept the possibility that my mother did choose to die, rather than to stay in this life.I will say that, IMO, 95%+ of this book is great.
As usual I was hesitant to read this book as it is not "Christian" but the more I read in it the more I like it and the more I gleaned from it in practical ways in order to overcome resentment and practice forgiveness and thus receive healing.
What is funny and being the cheater that I am, I take her New Age concepts and Christianize them, and boom, it is a Christian book my size :-) So anytime I read the word Universe, I simply read it as "The Lord" and they book keeps reading more beautifully.The book has good points but thoughts are not deep, not developed, an can be simplistic at times, hence loss of my patience.
I know that I’m an adult male with the capacity to think for himself and dismiss ideas that don’t work for him, and I would say the same of most of my Goodreads friends, and so I review this book as myself and for them.Here’s another story.
It’s pure chance, and I really believe this, that many of my family members are still alive today, so I don’t think that I or they have the right to gleefully skip about as if our completely safe current lives were always guaranteed, because they weren’t.
Having been introduced to Louise Hay's work with this book, just hours before meeting her, I found it to be an invaluable tool for cutting through what I would have considered too much "religion" and "Jesus-talk" in the writings of Dr. Ernest Holmes.
And it was Louise's clarity, simplicity and ability to cut to the heart of New Thought, which led me to a 26-year healing journey.I recommend this book to anyone who is serious about moving through the obstacles, appearances and difficulties life sometimes presents, and learn the skills of life mastery.This book, and the study of Lojong (The Eight Verses of Thought Transformation)are indispensable tools for those committed to creating a radiant, wholesome and vibrant life.
Meh. It just goes too far. I believe that our health can be affected by our mental states, sure; I even believe that some physical ailments are, quite possibly, almost entirely connected to our minds and emotions. But I simply cannot accept that every single thing that happens to me is something I have brought on by my own mental attitude. Sometimes bad things just happen.
واسه من كه خيلي مفيد بود... در جهانم همه چيز نيكوست...
However, that being said, it is the sole good lesson that I was able to see in this book.
It's because you want to be fat and cannot let go of some form of negativity in your life.Do you have cancer?
You could be rich if you believed you could be.She states several times that if you get upset with her statements or disagree with her it's not because you're right or she's wrong or because there's room for disagreement but simply that it means that you need to change and that she's hit upon that fact.
What I like about You Can Heal Your Life is that the reader can look up a specific illness to find out typically related emotional issues.
This gives them a starting point in healing their life.
Thus, my book,  Transformational Healing: Five Surprisingly Simple Keys Designed to Redirect Your Life Toward Wellness, Purpose and Prosperity, takes the reader a step deeper than You Can Heal Your Life.
My book also gives the reader a means to find their own personal emotional connection.
While I recommend this book for any healer's shelf, I advise they use it as a stepping stone for deeper exploration within.
This is a classic, and can be very useful as long as one doesn't get too literal about these things. I find that sometimes people in the "new age" community use this kind of information to judge and define rather than to support themselves or others with possible interpretations.
While it has some very good things I found beneficial, it also has crazy parts.
It's OK that I made mistakes in the past, but I don't need to feel guilty because I did the best I could.
The book helped me realize how often I told myself that I should have a cleaner house.
No, if I wanted to spend more time cleaning or hire someone to clean, it'd be clean; however, it's not worth it to me.
I could have a cleanner house, but I don't want to spend the time or money on it.
Approached with an open mind & free spirit this book if utilized can help you heal your life.
You Can Heal your Life was recommended to me in 1985 by a motivational speaker whom I met at my place of employment.She at the age of 32 after her husband in an unforeseen whirlwind abandon both her and her child.Without previous medical problems, signs or symptoms suffered a heart attack, along with medical intervention She believed this book helped her move her life onto a self sustaining more self aware & loving road.
همه امراض از عدم بخشایش ناشی می شوند.هرگاه که بیماریم , باید در دل خود جستجو کنیم و ببینیم که چه کسی را باید ببخشاییم .
کتاب ((تعلیم معجزات )) می گوید: (( همه امراض از عدم بخشایش ناشی می شوند.
و هرگاه که بیماریم باید به پیرامون خویش بنگریم و ببینیم که چه کسی را باید عفو کنیم .
این به معنای تایید رفتار آنها نیست .
این به معنای دست برداشتن از سر آن کس و آن مساله است .
لازم نیست که بدانیم چگونه عفو کنیم .
تنها کاری که باید بکنیم این است که مشتاق عفو و بخشایش باشیم .
I would have felt rather silly to stand in front of a mirror and tell to my reflection that ''I love you'', but I benefited from all the words of wisdom in it and the little thought provoking quotes.This is a book that I would recommend to anyone who is going through a bad time, or suffers from lack of self confidence but maybe not to someone who is deep in depression, they would need professional help.
It is me, with a little help from Louise Hay.This is something I like to tell people.
In this book Hay teaches us how a closed mind and preconceived ideas can keep us trapped and sick. She teaches how an open mind and the power of thought can heal most every sickness or situation. I recommend we all read this for better clarity in our lives.Enjoy and Be Blessed
So many of us would never utter a word about our inner tumult to anyone and in fact, I am certain that Louise Hay wrote her book “You Can Heal Your Life” for the silently misguided souls among us much more so than the ones that are openly unhappy and miserable and in dire need of help.A friend told me about Louise Hay. The first time I watched her on video, I fell in love with her sincerity and her brilliant insight into our human soul.
I loved _ LOVED _ the video - and will be watching it many times again.
All is well in myworld."Even better...in Chapter 15 she again includes here "List." The same list given in her boo, Heal Your Body.If you look up the problem, she provides the probable mental cause and provides a new thought pattern.For example, for diabetes...Cause: Longing for what might have been.
No sweetness left.New Thought Pattern: This moment is filled with joy.
No wanting to move.New Thought Pattern: I move forward with confidence and joy, knowing that all is well in my future.The ones I chose to look up I found revealing, enlightening, and truthful.
