https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10106.The_Children_of_Henry_VIII
Best place name: FotheringhayBest adjective: bedeckedBest phantom pregnancy: Mary's firstMost unwelcome death: Jane Grey'sMost welcome deaths: Tie between John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland's and Queen Mary'sBiggest asshole of a Pope: Pope Paul IIIMost unfit parents: Henry Grey and Frances Brandon (Duke & Duchess of Suffolk and Jane Grey's parents)Most scantily mentioned former queen: Anne of ClevesBest hunchback: Mary Grey
Extract from Mary’s will, 1557 :I, Mary Queen of England, thinking myself to be with child in lawful marriage…and being at this present (thanks be unto Almighty God) otherwise in good health, yet foreseeing the great danger which, by God’s ordinance, remains to all women in the travail of children, have thought…to declare my last will and testament.So Edward VI became King aged 9 in 1547.
Then I can carry on running the country.The hapless girl he fixed on was a 15 year old called Jane Grey, a cousin of the king and a great grand daughter of Henry VII.
There isn't any earth shattering information contained in this tome, no new facts unearthed; but Weir has such mastery of her research that it's always a pleasure to read her works. This is the first time I've read about all four I suppose you could call them junior Tudor monarchs in succinct, consecutive order. I've always been partial to the nine-days queen since I saw the movie starring Helena Bonham-Carter in the '80s. I think she's been shortchanged by history. Here she is given a healthy discourse. Overall a great discussion of these rulers
Although both are far different experiences, re-reading this history piece still brought enjoyment (once-again).Immediately in the first sentence of the Preface, Weir states that The Children of Henry VIII “…is not a history of England during the troubles reigns of Edward VI, Jane Grey [let’s stress for the beginner Tudor reader that Jane was NOT Henry’s daughter], Mary I, and Elizabeth I, but a chronicle of the personal lives of four English sovereigns and the relationships between them…” While this is true that Weir does not dive too deeply into the political landscape of the aforementioned individuals and focuses more on the social and personal aspects of these leaders; the text still doesn’t give the desired look into the psyche of these sovereigns as perhaps expected.
While Weir does her usual fine job of elucidating characters and their times, calling this "The Children of Henry VIII" is a bit misleading, since Lady Jane Grey's nine day reign is included.
This makes a great deal of sense historically, since she was labeled sovereign by some lords upon the death of Edward VI and before Mary's supporters drove Grey's "handlers" from power.The book does a nice job of outlining the personalities, experiences, and beliefs of Edward, Mary, and Elizabeth, the children of Henry VIII as well as Lady Jane Grey, also of royal blood.
Here, she focuses on Mary I, Elizabeth I, and Edward VI, the Tudor Children.
Believe me, you will not want to put the book down, as you flow from Henry's death through physically weak Edward, then through Bloody Mary's reign, and then to Elizabeth's ascension and the beginning of the global empire for England.It always amazes me that so small an island can have produced such magnificent historical figures.
Get your Tudor groove on with this great read.Book Season = Summer (second verse same as the first)
The Royals of England always seem to get a lot of publicity, more than most others.
It wasn't that much different in Tudor EnglandAs we who have read Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies learned, it wasn't easy to be at Court or a Tudor child.
Weir has a firm grasp of that period and gives us a good narrative and great deal of detail about each of the four children and how their lives were directed and influenced.
It answered some questions and gave me a much better perspective on all the elements influencing decisions at the Tudor Court.
I liked how Weir did not present the children only by their actions, but also spent some time talking about their appearances, their personalities and their educations.
It was extremely interesting and made me more real to me.While I can't say I learned many new facts, it is definitely true that Weir's research is in-depth and precise.
Plus, Weir's style is always extremely readable and easy to follow.
The book truly reads like a novel in some points, and I did not find many dry parts.
If you want to learn more about Henry VIII's heirs this book will serve you just fine.
It also speaks of her betrothal to Lord Hertford being broken in favor of her parents' desire for higher position, as well as to fit the Duke of Northumberland's schemes to raise his family's stature by marry his own son, Guilford Dudley (younger brother of Robert) to Jane.
I highly recommend reading the book :) July 17, 2009 From what I've just finished reading, Edward's Lord Protector at the time of this death was the Duke of Northumberland, who was Robert Dudley's father.
He needed more time to set affairs into order in a way that would benefit him (by getting Jane on the throne, who was married to his youngest son, Guilford Dudley).
All she can do is should responsibility for mistakes committed by others.” Of course, Elizabeth’s long and remarkable reign proved them completely wrong on all counts.Sandwiched between the reigns of the commanding personalities and the politically and socially astute minds of Henry VIII and his second daughter, Elizabeth, the short-lived reigns of Edward VI, Jane, and Mary are often overlooked as a result of their political naïveté and lack of genuine leadership skills – the first two being mere pawns of more powerful forces in the end.
Now this was fun!...yes yes one can absolutely enjoy oneself while reading about Henry VII, Bloody Mary and that fascinating family!Alison Weir may not be a traditional scholar of the Tudors, but whatever she lacks in "official credentials" she amply makes up for it with seriously good research and, most important of all, a clear approachable style of writing that serves as a brilliant introduction to the Tudor universe and, for those more familiar with it, perhaps a pause from the seriousness of more traditional biographies?This one is another example of such success - while, to the best of my knowledge, respecting known historical facts, Weir uses an ample selection of sources from the times to tell the story of the convoluted years between King Henry´s death and the crowning of Queen Elizabeth I.
This is an account of the events that happened after the death of Henry VIII up to the ascension of Elizabeth I to the throne. It is the story of how his heirs; his son Edward, his daughters Mary and Elizabeth and his grandniece Jane Grey engaged in a power struggle. This is not a biography of either of them but a look at a pivotal point in English history. I gained a good deal of insight into the events of that time period and how they all fit together.
As someone who finds the period fascinating, it was academic enough not to be boring if you know a fair amount about the main characters, but not daunting if you dont.
Alison Weir puts the chronology together well, and examines the four characters relationship with each other, how those relationships were manipulated or affected by those into whose care they were entrusted, and their motivations in the actions they took.
She also takes a great deal of care in the detail - for example in trying to make a modern diagnosis of the ailments suffered by the characters, and in particular those suffered by Mary in her desire to bear an heir to the throne.Thoroughly recommended.
At his death in 1547, King Henry VIII left four heirs to the English throne: his only son, the nine-year-old Prince Edward; the Lady Mary, the adult daughter of his first wife, Katherine of Aragon; the Lady Elizabeth, the daughter of his second wife, Anne Boleyn, and his young great-niece, the Lady Jane Grey.
Weir examines the relationship between Edward and Mary, Edward and Elizabeth, and Mary and Elizabeth.
The reigns of Edward and Mary are covered in good detail: Edward the Protestant, and Mary the Catholic who became known as "Bloody Mary."
this reads too much like a text book from school and not really my type of enjoyable reading.
By focusing on a narrow window, Weir makes it easy to connect to the characters in the book as though it's great fiction rather than history.
It is easy to skip over the reigns of Edward, Lady Jane and Mary on the way from Henry VIII to Elizabeth I.
The events can be real and dialogue can even be taken from primary source, but there is a line where an honest historian can decide to write from his or her own point of view and personal understanding without qualification in a literary style rather than as a scholar.
The style of Weir's writing here is just to the history side of the line.
A man hailed as 'the next King Solomon' - as such a young boy when he came to the throne (9 years old) he was manipulated and pushed by his advisors to agree to everything they ever wanted.
After Mary took the throne, she did not want to kill her cousin, and gave her many chances to take up the Catholic faith, but Jane was a fierce protestant, and, you could say she had a hand in signing her own death warrant.
After Mary's death, there is a small part on Queen Elizabeth I, as the next book in the series is 'Elizabeth the Queen' - which I have already read, and is also fantastic.
Elizabeth, Henry VIII & his sixth wifes fill more books about the Tudors than anything else.
I actually think Edward would have made a fine King had he lived, although he was just as extreme about Protestants as Mary was about the Catholics so who knows if he would have started burning people as well in the end?
I also originally thought this book would be about all of the Children Henry VIII produced rather than just his heirs, but none of his bastards were mentioned (Not counting Mary & Elizabeth).
The Children of Henry VIII, by Alison Weir"The Children of Henry VIII" is a nonfiction history that reads like a narrative.
Weir's book is perfect for lovers of historical fiction, because this history is so easily readable, yet also very educational.
I was a little sad when I finished this book; I greatly liked living in the world Weir recreated, an England awash in political and religious machinations.
For example, my view of Edward and Mary changed quite a bit after reading Weir's book; I used to think Edward was a sickly boy, and Mary heartless, but I learned that wasn't necessarily true.
I absolutely adored this book...and not just because I'm wild and crazy about the Tudors.
My only regret regarding the reading of this book is that Sundance Channel played 1998's  Elizabeth  directly I was through, and of course, all I saw during the first screening was all of the historical inaccuracies committed for sake of cinematic appeal.
Irritating on the part of the studio, yes, but if irritation is the pound of flesh owed for a well-functioning, healthy intellect, well...My apologies to Joseph Fiennes (it is a crying shame) but then of course, we'll always have  Shakespeare in Love  .
Reread for a paper on the Tudor period in my British Literature class.
While there are multiple books out there on the subject, I did find a few things that while familiar to me since I had read the book before, I do not remember reading about them in other books.
Have there been new discoveries about the time period and the people in it, definitely.
They are still very enjoyable books even though there may be a few things slightly "wrong" due to new information coming to light.Re-read for Hooked on Challenges June Challenge Royalty.
British Royalty.
To reiterate my review of Weir's "The Six Wives of Henry VIII," I can't believe I read this book all the way through, which says something about Weir's writing skills.
Obviously, it helps to be interested in the subject matter, but it really expanded my knowledge on the children of Henry VIII.
Of course Elizabeth I's reign would be its own book, but I was expecting Weir to touch on her reign a little bit more.
It would be interesting to see a side-by-side comparison of Mary vs.
Elizabeth's reign, if only very briefly.
Loved Alison Weirs 'The six wifes of Henry VIII' and this is picks up where that one ended...i.e death of a tyrant!!
The books focuses less on politics and more on the private lives of Henrys descendents and helps us understand more fully how they all interacted with each other why they became the rulers they did.
If you ever wanted to understand Bloody Mary better or Elizabeth I this is the perfect starting point.It does tend to focus more on MAry than Liz but then Wier has written a book about Elizabeths long reign so in fact this book ends as Elizabeth learns she is Queen.
For all his worry about heirs, he spawned three drastically different Monarchs, one a puppet, one infamous for religious fanaticism and murder and one celebrated as the greatest Monarch in English history. I knew of their adult lives, but reading this really put the pieces together for me and I saw how their childhoods dictated their future actions. I thought it was a fascinating peek inside, so to speak.
I love this book. Now, Elizabeth, we want Elizabeth!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I looooooooooooove this book and can barely put it down. I will be reading all of Alison Weir's other books once I finish this one!
It covers the brief reigns of King Henry's son Edward, his daughter Mary and his great-niece Jane Grey and ends with his daughter Elizabeth assuming the throne to embark on her 45 year reign.
Additionally, the title of this work is a bit misleading, as this historical biography also covers the sad, short life of Jane Grey, the nine-day queen, who was not a child but a great-niece of Henry VIII, and at his death became the fourth in line to the throne.
As much as I’ve already read about Tudor history, this offered an interesting dynamic about how Henry VIII’s children interacted with each other.
Despite having read biographies of Edward VI, Mary I, Elizabeth I, and Jane Grey, I feel like I learned more about the royal family and how their actions impacted one another.
Her fervor for burning “heretics” would lead to the persecution of hundreds of protestants on the largest scale in England’s history, dubbing her Bloody Mary.
I didn’t realize how much danger Elizabeth was in after Jane’s execution and how threatened Mary was by her half sister.
This was a great read for fans of Tudor history.
Alison Weir does a great job of telling the story of the royals without adding fiction. The story of their lives are so full of intrigue and drama, there is no need to add anything.Ms. Weir also does a great job of developing the humanness of each individual in the story thereby making the reader more empathetic to decisions made because of societal pressures of the time.
If learning about Henry VII is your jam, Alison Weir is the best. She makes crazy history come alive. I read "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" by her as well and it was fascinating. You can't make this stuff up.
