https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313277.Birthday_Letters
لو أن هيوز أظهر ندمهلو أنه ترك هذا العالم معترفا بذنبهلو أنه أحب سيلفيا حقا....ماذا..؟هل ستعودهل سينتهي عذابها..؟؟لما نحن القراء مهووسين بقصة سيلفيا مع تيدماذا سيعود بالنفع علينا إن ظللنا نتهمه حيا وميتا..؟؟سؤال وجيهوالإجابة ببساطة لأن سيلفيا لم تمتلأنها تسكن كل من قرأها وتنبض بداخلهلأن أنينها لا نزال نسمعه بوضوح مع كل حرف جديد نقرؤهومع كل إعادة قراءة لأبياتها أو ما نثرته على الورقلأن تيد قتلها ولم يعتذر..::::::::::::لا أكره تيدأو على الأقل كنت أحاول ألا أفعلولكن بعد قراءة هذا الديوانما الذي علي

Meanwhile, the Plath of Birthday Letters is alternately vicious, appropriative, physically violent, tortured, 'fated' for death (and 'fated' as a muse-goddess, something Diane Middlebrook pays a lot of mind to in her 'biography' on their marriage, Her Husband), and a pathetic little girl snared in the trappings of MummyDaddyMummyDaddyDaddyDaddyMummy (this is almost verbatim the ending to one of the poems in this collection).
So 35 years after her death (nearly 50 today), Birthday Letters leaves behind a snapshot of their marriage and their poetry that places Hughes in the supplicant position to his almost oracular, frightening, mad, brilliant (when he gives her that much), wife.
Ted Hughes has an uncomfortable place in the room where Sylvia Plath killed herself (and another in the room where his next wife, Assia Wevill, killed herself and their only daughter) -- he was the gas, he was the ovens, or he was the mark to which the the dial was turned. Maybe he was the sealed doors. In  Birthday Letters  he places himself in and around that first room, Plath's room. And those places are horrifying, those he occupies and also those spaces he seems to have to leave empty.
But these were increasingly brutal, harsh, bitter poems; impersonal poetry which gave little away about the inner man.To add to the pressure, not only did the much-lauded Sylvia Plath, viewed as the martyr and heroine under his tyrannical regime, commit suicide, but six years later, Ted Hughes’s mistress Assia Wevill also took both her own life, and that of her young daughter “Shura”.* Much later, a third tragedy was the suicide of Sylvia and Ted’s son Nicholas, who hanged himself in 2009.**Ted Hughes certainly suffered.
Incredibly, over 25 years, Sylvia Plath is explicitly mentioned only once, in the 1979 poem “Heptonstall Cemetery”.And now we know that, in secret, he wrote the poems in Birthday Letters, his final collection of poetry, published significantly only months before his death.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Black Thread: “Birthday Letters” by Ted Hughes(Original Review, 2002)Hughes acknowledged he repressed his own feelings for many years after Plath’s suicide.
The poems he wrote before his death, “Birthday Letters”, were an outpouring of these feelings about his love for Plath.
Plath was an extremely talented artist, writing both novels, children’s books, doing pictures.
She wrote two main collections of poems, “Colossus”, where she writes very tight, word perfect poems, but she hasn’t found her true voice.
I wanted to hate this.
I've read enough by Sylvia Plath to know that I love her.
I've read enough about her relationship with Ted Hughes to know that I hate him.
What bullshit is that?Of course I know nothing about either of them.
I know what's been written of their marriage, it's breakdown and the next chapter of suicides in Ted's life.
What I read in this collection was rawness of love and loss.
His side of their relationship.
Who knows.
But it seems you can be both pro-Plath and pro-Hughes.Oh and apparently he's quite good at poetry.
Some of the poetry in this novel is absolutely amazing and gripping, others in my opinion not so much. There does seem to be some, for lack of a better phrase, filler. Either way it's still a good collection with a lot of creativity to it.
Given Hughes' notorious reluctance to speak about his volatile marriage to Sylvia Plath, this collection came as a shock when it appeared in 1998.
Comprising poems written since Plath's suicide in 1963 this is both intimate and a public dialogue, a way of speaking back to Plath, her poems, and also the world which sometimes turned Hughes into a patriarchal monster of a husband.The best of the poems draw on Plath's own works, re-using her texts, titles, imagery and language to offer Hughes' side of the story: 'Setebos', and 'Night-ride on Ariel' are both particularly vindicatory, blaming everyone else from Plath's mother, to her college patron and even her psychiatrists for her ultimate fate - notably all female.
So these may not be the best of Hughes' poetry, but as one side of a contentious and ongoing poetic and personal dialogue these are indispensable.
Ted Hughes wrote Birthday Letters across his life and published it shortly before his death. Ted Hughes and Sylvia Plath had once been married and divorced before Plath committed suicide. This anthology of poetry is as a result a collection of poems addressing Plath as 'you' like a letter, a response to her  Ariel  (as seen in the references to 'ariel' and 'bees' in various poems. One problem of criticism of the poetry however, is a criticism that haunts many books unfairly. That this is merely
This anthology of poetry is as a result a collection of poems addressing Plath as 'you' like a letter, a response to her 
I cannot deny that they focus on Plath but that said, as poems they are brilliant on their own.Take the following extract from The Blue Flannel Suit as an example of the simple elegance of Hughes' work.
On the whole while I may have liked several poems more than others (The Badlands, The Blue Flannel Suit, The Moonwalk, The Rabbit Catcher and The Minotaur for example) I found this to be a great whole collection of poetry.
Warm. Private. Nostalgic.
I'm not actually a huge fan of Ted Hughes as a writer.As a human being--whose life and misdeeds are basically publicly property--I have no comment.I like this, I'm almost afraid to say, because it is ugly. Self-justifying and painful and tender and unpleasant. An raw mixture of unspeakable things.
Maybe if I read more of the biographies I might fault him more as a man, but the poetry seems brilliant to me, poem for poem, attempt after attempt to understand in one of the only ways he knows how, through the writing of poems.
Maybe, if you hate Hughes as some kind of murderer (and I don't, I don't blame him for her death, not based on what I know, anyway), you will see this as his getting the last word, but I don't read it this way.
My last review for a book of poetry (Plath's Ariel) was only a few lines long.
Poetry is written to engage the reader's feelings and cause them to be swept up in words that were born to be put next to each other.
I guess this is much like any relationship, but here it's being told by a poet, so shut up and listen.
Many readers like to pick a side when looking at each poet, choosing who the victim was and whther Plath killed herself because of Hughes.
Awful person, beautiful poetry.
"A new soul, still not understanding, Thinking it is still your honeymoon In the happy world, with your whole life waiting, Happy, and all your poems still to be found." In Birthday Letters Ted Hughes offers 88 responses to Sylvia Plath in chronological order, beginning when he first met her, following her 1963 suicide and the years after as he raised their two children amidst the legend his wife left behind following her early death.
Ultimately I found Birthday Letters valuable for the undeniable insight into the complex Ted/Sylvia dynamic it provides, as well as several truly lucid beautiful pieces but its inconsistency and its tone of judgment left me wanting for the powerful emotional connection that defines good poetry for me.
i'd recommend doing the same as it helps place the locations and events that inspired the poetry.
He's a poet who teaches that the big fancy words aren't what's always needed ('wet shops' - God, can you think of a better description of Yorkshire?
- 'the canteen clutter of the British restaurant'- this is pre-coffee shop time!) but nevertheless his writing makes the reader really FEEL.
My favourites were Suttee ('it's the only thing I want'), A Short Film (a photograph is taken - not intended to rend or hurt.
I've read a lot of Hughes in the 10 years since I first read it, his poetic memoir of his and Plath's life together.
Enjoyed it more, I think, saw more in it, being 10 years improved as a reader.
Many of them see their relationship in cosmic terms, a treatment I like a lot.
Like everyone else I was gobsmacked by Ariel, the poems she wrote during her last fall and winter.
But all the years since we've been reading Hughes and now recognize his talent as vaulting, cathedral-sized.
Birthday Letters is some of his best work.Rereading in conjunction with the Jonathan Bate biography of Hughes.
The freezing soilOf the garden, as I clawed it.All around me that midnight'sGiant clock of frost. And somewhereInside it, wanting to feel nothing,A pulse of fever. SomewhereInside that numbness of the earthOur future trying to happen.I look up - as if to meet your voiceWith all its urgent futureThat has burst in on me. Then look backAt the book of the printed words.You are ten years dead. It is only a story.
I guess I just don't think this thing was especially moving or anything I think poetry is supposed to be--inventive, playful, honest.I did like the poems "The 59th Bear," "Fate Playing," and "A Picture of Otto," and: "In my position, the right witchdoctor/ Might have caught you in flight with his bare hands,/ Tossed you, cooling, one hand to the other,/ Godless, happy, quieted.// I managed/ A wisp of your hair, your ring, your watch, your nightgown.""You wanted to study/ Your stars--the guards/ of your prison yard""You kept being overwhelmed/ By the misery of the place, like a nausea.""A land with maybe one idea--snake.""'This is evil,'/ you said.
L'11 febbraio 1963 Sylvia Plath ficca la testa nel forno, lasciando a quello stronzo di suo marito due bambini e un rimorso inestinguibile (lui l'aveva tradita e abbandonata per un'altra).
L'11 febbraio 1963 Sylvia Plath, tanto ipersensibile e dotata poetessa quanto donna completamente, baudelarianamente inetta a una normale routine quotidiana, si arrende all'assoluto, comprendendo infine che per certi destini vita e poesia si elidono a vicenda.
La prima volta che l'ha vista, il primo incontro, il sesso, il matrimonio, i litigi, l'intensità meravigliosa e sfinente di lei, i presagi di lui, i piccoli particolari, i pochi soldi, le case, i viaggi, i dubbi, i progetti, le risate, gli errori, la violenza, la speranza, la stanchezza, l'inizio della fine.
Very intriguing how again and again Hughes fetishizes Plath's apple-pie-eating, horseback-riding blonde-tall-muttmix Americaness as some sort of alluring alien Otherness: we in the New World might as well be stepping down from a hovering silvership when we (she, really, she, pretty Plutonian Plath) visit(ed) The Continent (Fulbright scholarship).
And the descriptions of the American landscape are almost Martian - Hughes' frantic nightmare of Yellowstone Park is, y'know, ha: Edgar Rice Burroughsian man-vs-beast.
ASR bookmark review: With rich imagery and symbolic clarity Hughes explores and redefines the historical contours of his marriage to Bell Jar author Sylvia Plath.
Intrigerend poëtisch getuigenis van Hughes over zijn relatie met Plath.
Na haar zelfmoord had hij 35 jaar gezwegen en zich ook niet willen verdedigen tegen de vele publicaties - vooral vanuit feministische hoek - waarin Plath een slachtoffer werd genoemd van de 'onmens' Hughes.
Deze uitgebreide bundel, verschenen in 1998, toont een heel andere Hughes die misschien wel fouten heeft gemaakt, maar heel veel van haar heeft gehouden en die met bovenmenselijk geduld geprobeerd heeft haar (psychiatrische) angsten, haar grillen, haar woedeaanvallen en haar onverwerkte rouw over haar vader het hoofd te bieden.Na het lezen van Jij zegt het van Connie Palmen is deze bundel - waaruit Palmen uitgebreid geput heeft voor haar roman - een echte aanrader.
maybe one day i will revisit these poems with a more comprehensive biographical knowledge. maybe one day i will join the mythological dots to form a constellation of further meaning that i cannot, at this moment, with my fragmented and disjointed understanding fully discern. maybe one day i will approach these poems as things to be understood, rather than experienced. but not this time, my first time reading them. i have gathered only impressions, brief glimpses of memory, resonating with guilt and sadness and feverish intensity, patterns and images of myth and superstition woven into human life.
I feel like Plath has become a becon for many women writers, and Hughes is cast as the villain in her life, the man holding the knife.
I enjoyed the way Hughes borrowed some of Plath's imagery, but I liked his own even more.
I'd been hoping for a little more happy, because I know they did love each other for a reason and I wanted a reminder of that, but at the same time I understand the reason for the emotions in these poems and I don't criticize that.
Hughes also favors longer poems, and it cna be difficult to bear through three pages of sustained pain.
واللغة محض أداةٍ لإيصال كل هذا..ولذلك فجودة الأداة وحدها لن تكفي أبدًا مادامت العاطفة أولًا وأخيرًا قاصرةً ومخادعة..لست إلا قارئةً لتيد هيوز..أني أقرأ له وتسع عشرة عامًا تفصل بين وفاته وقرائتي هذه..لست أعرف عنه إلا سيرةً ذاتيةً قصيرة بل وأقرأ شعره مترجمًا واضعةً بذلك مسافةً شاسعة أخرى بيني وبين ما يرغب بقوله..لذلك فعدم وصوله لي ليس مستغربًا..ولكن وصوله بشعًا، يخلق في النفس شعورًا بزيف كل مايدعيه..فذلك يدعوا للتساؤل..قاومت قراءة أي مراجعةٍ للديوان قبل أن أنهيه، حاولت جاهدةً أن أضع محبتي العظيمة لسيلفيا جانبًا وأنا أقرأ..لكن ذلك لم يغير أي شيء..
'Drawing calmed you.
Your poker infernal pen / Was like a branding iron.
Objects / Suffered into their new presence, tortured / Into final position.' I like two or three of the more than eighty poems here.
But in general I find Ted Hughes an abominable figure and this aestheticized denigration of Sylvia Plath distasteful.
For instance: 'What I remember / Is thinking: She'll do something crazy.
And I ripped / the door open and jumped in beside you.' Most unfortunate is the fact that Plath can no longer speak for her side, having committed suicide decades after this collection's publication.
Ted Hughes is definitely now one of my favourite poets and I look forward to reading more of his work! I'm sure a lot of these poems flew right over my head but I look forward to retreading this collection and learning more about his life!
2.5 stars. Good but not my kinda poetry.
Enough of her life has been flayed for public consumption.Birthday Letters is Hughes' dialogue with Plath's work, with her life, with their marriage, and with her death.
That said, I read these quickly and without companion volumes like Hughes' other poetry, or Plath's journals and poems and fiction and essays.
Somehow, though, these poems also fall flat in that I don't see a lot of self-examination on the part of Hughes, just a fair bit of retelling of the near-mythological events in their marriage from a fairly neutral standpoint, and the blaming of quite supernatural forces for his wife's illness and death.
I felt less like I needed to 'study' them than I once did.
The best poems in this collection are, in my opinion: 'The Shot', 'Fullbright Scholars', 'Freedom of Speech', 'Isis', 'Being Christ-like', 'Epiphany', 'Setebos', 'The Tender Place', and 'Telos'.
However, it IS an incredibly important poetic text, especially, in my view, if one reads it after Plath's 'Ariel'.
Usually, I would be hesitant to connect the work of any one artist to that of another, but with these incredibly personal poems it is appropriate.Definitely a long-term favourite for me, although often quite bleak!
