https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108824.Eminent_Victorians
One should rather read Lytton Strachey’s ‘Eminent Victorians’ if one is interested to gain an insight into how Strachey dismounts with relish Victorian heroes and values.
My motivation to read this book has been generated from my interest in the Bloomsbury Group, which the eccentric Lytton Strachey (1880 – 1933) was a prominent member of.
John Sutherland writes in his introduction: “Eminent Victorians is not, we deduce, the work of a stickler for historical fact, documentary trustworthiness, or modern standards of scholarly citation.
This book was a rocking good read.
It is very well written, and hilarious in parts.
People have told me (either with glee or with a wag of the finger) that Strachey "takes the piss" out of Victorians in this book, but these people have never read the book.
Waspish as his writing is, it is never (at least to a modern reader) disrespectful.
The awesome (and I don't use that word often) power and presence of the four personalities treated shines through the writing despite (or because of) the economy of Strachey's prose.
Strachey redeems his subjects; he doesn't condemn them.
'The End of General Gordon' is Gibbonesque historical writing at its best.
Faultless dramatic styling: 'He was welcomed by many old friends of former days, among them Li Hung Chang, whose diplomatic views coincided with his own.
Li’s diplomatic language, however, was less unconventional.
In an interview with the Ministers, Gordon’s expressions were such that the interpreter shook with terror, upset a cup of tea, and finally refused to translate the dreadful words; upon which Gordon snatched up a dictionary, and, with his finger on the word “idiocy,” showed it to the startled mandarins.'
A life in which licensed barbarism was mingled with the daily and hourly study of the niceties of Ovidian verse." On Monsignor Talbot: He could apply flattery with so unsparing a hand that even princes of the church found it sufficient." On Dr. Hall: "A rough terrier of a man who had worried his way to the top of his profession." On Cardinal Newman: "With a sinking heart, he realized at last the painful truth: it was not the nature of his views, it was his having views at all that was objectionable." If it is sardonic wit you want, you will find it here, in these four essays.
This is a marvelous collection of short biographies for four great figures of the Victorian age: Dr. Arnold, Florence Nightingale, Cardinal Manning and General Gordon.
Strachey's wit is no less cutting than his pen, exposing with relentless precision the hypocrisy, the ambition, the immorality and in some cases outright cruelty of some of the Victorian age's most treasured legends.
In so doing, he makes a powerful argument for the art of the biography against the questionable value of idealized moral hagiography in favor of uncovering and identifying the essential humanity of its subjects, however deeply flawed.
It is, among other things, thoroughly entertaining.
In one of the more famous take-downs in the history of biography, Lytton Strachey sets out to slay the sainted beast of a golden age in the persons of four representative figures, and he mostly succeeds.
The fading itself, however, owes something to Strachey.
The best, however, is reserved for last in “The End of General Gordon.” And here’s why I say that Strachey “mostly” but not entirely succeeds in his take-down, because for all his personal misalignments Strachey’s Gordon Pasha (like Nightingale to a degree) is nonetheless an object of legitimate awe, even when his goals seem to us culpably eccentric.
Lytton Strachey's quartet of pithy biographies, Eminent Victorians (1918), wittily, Wilde-ishly distorts the character and accomplishments of four noble worthies -- Cardinal Manning, Florence Nightingale, Thomas Arnold, and General Gordon -- in order to burlesque the nineteenth-century's most dearly held virtues: faith, hard work, learning, and courage.
But its derisive criticism of the past generation's pretense helped to usher in a new, Modern period of literature, and Strachey's probing of his subjects' psyches and his experiments with the structure of his lives profoundly influenced the scope and style of twentieth-century biography.
In spite of its age, though, the book is full of deliciously tart and stinging lines that make this acerbic read a guilty pleasure.
The choice of people that get a biography in this book is excellent although I have no idea whether the sample is representative. I found all of the stories very interesting, well written, witty and humorous. The preoccupation with religion that all subjects share, with the possible exception of Florence Nightingale, is amazing and interesting. All in all, a great read, especially for anyone interested in the "Victorian" period.
I read this book years ago and am considering rereading it again. I loved so many books about the Bloomsbury Group and Lytton Strachey was a very unusual but highly gifted individual.
Dr. Arnold could have been left out as I would have advised had I been Strachey's editor; too much like Manning's life, another career political theologian.Major-General Charles George Gordon, also known as Gordon Pasha here, was a fascinating British Army officer and administrator.
He saw action in the Crimean War as an officer in the British Army, but this focuses on Service with the Khedive in Equatoria building Egypt's empire in the Great Lakes region and ultimately the Mahdist uprising, the siege of Khartoum, and his principled death refusing rescue without his garrison while Prime Minister William Gladstone neglected military affairs and did not act promptly enough to save the besieged Gordon.
I'd always wanted to read this collection of four Victorian biographies, ever since I saw the 1995 movie Carrington based on the life of Strachey with painter Dora Carrington.
Lytton Strachey 's Eminent Victorians gives us short lives of Cardinal Manning, Florence Nightingale, Dr. Thomas Arnold of Rugby, and Charles "Chinese" Gordon of Khartoum.
Strachey's style is sprightly and ironic, particular in the lives of Manning and Gordon, which broadly lampoon church and British parliamentary politics.
I was impressed by the biography of Florence Nightingale who was tireless for most of her long life in improving healthcare in both military and civilian life.
Not entirely what I thought it was going to be -- I'd imagined it was angrily anti-Victorian, or at least completely uninterested in giving the Victorians their dues.
People over-emphasise the meanness.
It's facetious, but I think Strachey is genuinely interested in all his subjects and is interested in what makes them go.
What binds the book together is the sense that what makes these people go is, at bottom, the same thing, something perhaps distinctly Victorian.
I liked the form Strachey uses; it's imaginative non-fiction which almost becomes fiction at times with its sense of the subjects as characters whose nature is intuited rather than strictly evidenced.
Lytton Strachey wrote about four of the 18th Century's "heroes".
But he took off the blinders when he wrote.
This book was a best-seller AND a scandal when it was published in the early 1900's.
Would be interesting to see what Strachey could have done with some of our major political characters!
When done reading the book, go get the movie "Carrington" from your local library.
Shows more about Strachey and his mental makeup, plus the fact that he was an "outed" homosexual at a time when polite people did NOT discuss nor acknowledge such a condition.
Here are four portraits of leading figures of Victorian England: Cardinal Henry Manning, Florence Nightingale, Dr. Thomas Arnold, and General Charles Gordon.
Manning was the leader of England's Catholics, Nightingale pretty much created the nursing profession, Arnold was the headmaster of Rugby and helped create the British public schools, and Gordon was ultimately a tragic figure, the victim of anti-colonial Muslim armies in Sudan.
The British government sent Gordon to Khartoum to lead an evacuation of the area.
It's the kind of book that hovers on the edges of my reading of the Victorian period, and it's probably one of those great lost books, like Flann O'Brien's _At Swim_, books that just came out at the wrong time.
But I'm a bit at a loss for what it is-- reading from this vantage point, you want to think that the Catholic problem is the past, and Islamic fundamentalism is the future, but I suspect that reading is too informed by current events, and is something I'm grafting onto the book from without, instead of honestly finding it within.
And while Cardinal Manning's outing may have been ever so slightly overlong, the rest were rather amusing dashes through the years, highlighting the work ethic as well as the religious hypocrisy that seemed to have these over-achieving Victorians in its grip.If you prefer to read the biographies of people that you've actually heard of then you'd be better off elsewhere, but if you're the sort of nerd (like me) that simply enjoys learning new and interesting things (especially if they're delivered in a deliciously bitchy, gossipy way) then Eminent Victorians will be right up your (cobbled) alley.
I will read this book through to the end but so far (having only finished Strachey's appraisal of the great 'Chinese' Gordon) I see no vindication of any claims that Strachey 'overturned the field of biography' with this publication.
The book's preface suggests that Strachey 'exposed hypocrisy' in all the leading British institutions of the Victorian age.
So far, I find Strachey a bit of a 'carper' and a 'poseur'.
No one seems to put Strachey on the spot and ask him--pray tell--what *other* institutions he would rather have seen supplied in the place of Victorian liberalism, Victorian education, or Victorian imperialism...?
This was fun.
The author wanted to treat his subjects as critically and irreverently (which does not mean without compassion/understanding) as possible, and sometimes it shows that he was out to shock his readers; particularly with Florence Nightingale, with whom he failed to find any real fault.
He was also clearly super prejudiced against Catholics, but that's exactly what makes his biography of Manning so entertaining.
So, I liked Manning's portrait the best, thought that Dr Arnold was a miserable human being, was amazed by FN, and as for Gordon, I felt really sorry for the dude.
Gordon's part was the saddest.
I loved this book. A view of the Victorians from a Modernist perspective. Who could ask for more? I especially liked the biography of Florence Nightingale, presented in this book not as the soft-spoken "Lady with the Lamp" and saver of soldiers, but as a driven, often obsessive, overachiever. The four short biographies in this book portray their subjects ultimately as humans, their flaws and strengths equally on display.
From this book I learned that there is a Catholic saint called Pantaloon.I like Strachey's writing. I've seen it described as "bitchy," but I don't think that's right at all. I would call it unstinting. I also liked how Arthur Clough randomly wandered through all four narratives (and Gladstone, too, but that seems a bit less random to me).The stories about Khartoum were horrible in so many ways. Augh!
This is one of those books I really ought to have read and never quite did until a recent cold put me in bed for a day. It is hard now to imagine the shock of its original publication. The first and largest section, on Cardinal Manning, is still seething on the page, but by the time we get to Arnold and General Gordon it all feels a bit tired and obvious. Perhaps that's a tribute to the book - like the best business ideas or architectural styles it feels as if it has always been here.
Strachey's biographies of four eminent Victorians have been described as witty and irreverent - witty they certainly are and his caustic and in some instances downright funny observations do characterise the book. But the impression I came away with overall after reading the book, was someone trying to present his subjects as human beings with good points, and failings, and not as people to be romanticised or placed on a pedestal.
You think snark is something new? A freshly contemporary attitude? Read this, and refresh your recollection. In truth, Strachey's great book would be even better if it were a little less snarky: there's something of the class show-off in him; but it is an excellent book, nonetheless, and Stracey a great stylist. After this, read his Queen Victoria, then Michael Holyroyd's biography.
Beautiful prose with a whimsical and waspish sense of humour. The links between the eminent Victorians are made elegantly by Strachey.
A friend recommended this, but it does drag on with religious minutae--not the narrative speed we expect today. Buried in there, some interesting debunking of myth about those eminent Victorians.
Strachey was beloved by Virginia Woolf, plus it's about Victorians--two great tastes! I expect this book to be like eating peanut butter swirled into chocolate. om nom nom.
What's interesting about Strachey are the four individuals that he brings up from the depths of the past - a clergyman, Henry Edward Manning, an educator, Thomas Arnold (father of the far better known Matthew Arnold), a reformer, Florence Nightingale, and a soldier, George Gordon.
Manning, as Strachey makes clear, was a well-connected Anglican clergyman who used his contacts to make the transition rather easily and moved up in the Roman hierarchy.Thomas Arnold was a famed headmaster at Rugby School, but for all of his concern abut the students and the curriculum, he did virtually nothing about needed educational reforms.

This was as much fun as I had been led to expect by the Victorian England lecture series from the Great Courses, and from The Autobiography of Bertrand Russell 1: 1872-1914. If you are imagining something dry and flattering, think again: this is witty, perceptive, and biting analysis which I now recognize as the seed crystal of an entire genre of British humor.
Once again, the history of the book itself is as interesting as its subjects. Overall, the author’s humor or interpretation may not be to everyone’s taste. However, the humanity he brings to historical documents and timelines is brilliant. Especially, as already mentioned in the life of General Gordon.
