https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88061.Dreams_from_My_Father
Along the way, he has to come to terms with the death of his absent father, being raised primarily by his white grandparents (you don’t hear about this much), and learning the ropes of being a community organizer in inner city Chicago.The thing that amazed me most about the book was watching Obama 1) work through problems and 2) analyze both sides on an issue.
What followed was three years of work in which Obama not only made major, innovative steps in Chicago but in which he also learned how to inspire both individuals and small groups into action.I was also impressed by what Barack Obama didn’t leave out of the book.
Audiobook.....read by Barack Obama An oldie but goodie:It was wonderful listening to Obama. He’s so cordial......and..... ....ordinary and extraordinary!I especially loved when Obama talked about his mother. I laughed when ‘mom’ forced Obama to eat his breakfast each day before school — with Obama rolling his eyes as if it was torture ( I could relate - I did everything I could to get out of eating breakfast as a kid)....... but where my mother just gave up and went back to bed — Obama’s mother
There is not a day that goes by that he does not miss her.Obama’s mother is a woman I would have liked to have met.
She took her job as parenting as serious as any parent had...........she was always teaching.....about integrity- morals - honesty - fairness - straight talk - independent thought - safety- healthy habits - and the value of a great education.It was common for Obama’s mother to stop whatever they were doing and say things like this: “If you’re going to grow into a decent human being you’re going to need some values”.
It's the story of a boy trying to comprehend who he is, to reconcile with the fact that he looks undeniably different than his mother and grandparents, to cope with the mysterious, absent figure that is his father.The book provides a better understanding of not only Barack Obama's life, but a greater understanding of who Barack Obama is and why he is the way he is.
he worked for years as a community organizer, and it wasn't until I read his book that I realized how hard that work was.Barack Obama has led a life no one else could really understand, but everyone can relate to in some capacity.
I both understood and was puzzled by some of his feelings of loathing and anger towards himself and US society: I too am a biracial American with a black father and a white mother, though female and with two American parents born and raised, and I personally could connect with various aspects of his struggle and the larger struggle of the black community.
It was a privilege to read through Obama's very personal struggles and difficulties and feel his compassion for others, knowing what path that man would take, and it's a fantastic story: from being estranged from the world, he would go on to lead it.
Great read!...about understanding and finding out his past upbringing,life and history....(paperback!)
And for that reason it is also a book that should be read by women who want to understand men.Beyond issues of men and their fathers, Obama also relates his struggle for identity as a black man in a white family in the 1970s, as a boy being raised by his single mother and grandparents, as a teenager making decisions about drugs, and a host of other issues.In short, this is a great 'book-club book' because there are so many broad themes that can be catalysts for discussion.Whether or not you're a fan of this president's politics, challenge yourself to look beyond that and discover the richness in this important memoir.
Great read! about understanding and finding out his past upbringing,life and history etc (paperback!)
I listened to this audiobook in the waning days of Obama's presidency.
Dreams from My Father is about Obama's family, his childhood, and how he got his start in community organizing in Chicago.Some of my favorite stories were about Barack's grandparents, his memories of his mother and father, and finally, his visit to Kenya to meet his African relatives.
It was interesting to read this memoir, first published in 1995, and to recognize all that Obama has accomplished since writing it.
It was inspiring to listen to Obama read his story, and I'd heartily recommend it.
Apart from any of the political ideas in the book or whether or not one is excited by his presidency, Obama is a fantastic writer -- this is one of the best memoirs I have ever read.
His insights on race, history, identity, and class are some of the most nuanced and astute I've read -- he understands how his white grandfather could be both a well-intentioned progressive and yet involuntarily racist at the same time; how young black men can be both victims of and perpetuators of the myths of masculinity and race that ensnare them; how most people are actually good but that being good isn't necessarily enough to escape the weight of history and mutual misunderstanding.Whether you have a huge crush on Obama (like myself!), are more restrained, or even didn't vote for him, you owe it to yourself to read this book, to better understand where the man who is now our President is coming from.
Did Barack Obama write this book himself?
Man, it was so full of cliches that I almost threw it against the wall, had it not belonged to the library.
The most interesting parts take place out of the U.S. Too much concentration on frustrated-black-man syndrome, trying to find a black community and not enough (for me) on how he fared within this community as mixed.
As a book, I think the writing was lacking greatly and overall, it just moved really slowly, especially, as I said, when he was in the U.S.
The opening half of the book, in which Obama describes his childhood and his experiences in college and working in Chicago, interested me the most; perhaps, I think, because he was very good at showing the ways in which he was situated within wider (white) American culture, and the difficulties and the confusions and the hurts that this had caused him and the black community.
الكتاب يحكي تأملات أوباما في الحياة، التي أعيت الكثير :)، يسرد لك الأحداث بطريقة سينيمائية، يربطها لك كذلك بحبكة هوليوودية :).
يحكي لك قصة حب أبيه و أمه، موافقة جده وجدته على مضض، ظلم جده لأبيه بعدما وُلد أوباما، وفراق أبيه عن أمه بسبب العنصرية :).
ثم يحكي تشتت أوباما بين زواج أمه وحياته مع جده وجدته، وقد كانت فترة أندونيسيا الأجمل في نظري.
من أكثر المواقف التي أثرت في اكتشافه للعنصرية الخفية لدى جده وجدته ضد ذوي البشرة السوداء بعدما أصبح مراهقا!
يحكي كذلك أنه كان مجبرا على كره البيض لأنه من ذوي البشرة السوداء.
I can't see their faces inside the car; it's too dark to know how old they are, whether they're sober or drunk, good boys or bad.
I start picturing myself through the eyes of these boys, a figure of random authority, and know the calculations they might now be making, that if one of them can't take me out, the four of them certainly can.That knotted, howling assertion of self - as I try to pierce the darkness and read the shadowed faces inside the car, I'm thinking that while these boys may be weaker or stronger than I was at their age, the only difference that matters is this: The world in which I spent those difficult times was far more forgiving.
The book is split into three sections (Origins, Chicago and Kenya).
I tried splitting up my reading of it in roughly the same manner since it's easier for me to get through a non-fiction book if I intersperse it with fiction.I think each section left me with a different series of questions.
I was encouraged by his persistence in getting to know people who needed help and felt a desire to be more persistent in building relationships with those in my community who need help.Kenya made me think about family.
Obama's relationship to his family differs vastly from mine.
The first publication of this book dates from 1995, when its author was only 34 years, well before his presidential bid and before his first election as senator from Illinois, which limits the risk of hagiographic publications more recent since the text does not cover the real policy of his life.
34 would be short for an autobiography, but that's not really what this is, especially since the story gives an important place to the reflections of a man in search of his place, and his black identity his family origins.
I was very pleasantly surprised by this book, by the sincerity, pragmatism and voluntarism that emerge.
And as someone who’s always looked up to Barack Obama and read most of his other work, there was no way I would let this golden nugget pass me by, especially after seeing it pop up on some many friend’s lists!
Thankfully, by the end of the end, the story takes a happy turn in the form of Obama visiting Kenya and finally meeting the family he never knew.
As someone who grew up in The Windy City, I’ve always known Obama was well liked, but I had no idea how much of an impact his work had made!
His story becomes one with those of the people he works with as he learns about the value of community, the necessity of healing old wounds, and the possibility of faith in the midst of adversity.Barack’s journey comes full circle in Kenya, where he finally meets the African side of his family and confronts the bitter truth of his father’s life.
Even though I'm not American, it seemed important to do so, and also I was told that the quality of the writing is at least as impressive and the story.It was published in 1995, shortly after Obama graduated from Harvard Law School and covers his life, or rather his search for identity up till then, in three main sections: childhood in Hawaii, Indonesia and back in Hawaii; working in Chicago and visiting Kenya to visit his father's family.
Book was boring. Lots of redundancy, meaning it was the same topic over and over again…I wouldn’t recommend.
We sense an intelligent person with a keen sense of worldly observation – an individual who can astutely look at people from multiple viewpoints.I did become somewhat confused during the Africa portion; it would have been good to have a kinship chart to keep track of all these people – the half-brothers, many aunts and uncles and grandparents.One also gets the feeling that Mr. Obama is obsessed with finding the meaning of his long-lost father who was absent throughout his developing years (his father spent two weeks with him when he was 10 years old).
On that level, we can connect to the story of his life and let it enrich our own experience.On a personal note, one of the interesting bits for me was the chapter about his community organizing efforts in Chicago because he was working with an affiliate of the Gamaliel Foundation which ran the leadership program I went to last summer, so the language and methods he was using was all very familiar to me.I said months ago that if Barack Obama tossed his hat in the ring for the 2008 Presidential race that I would change my registration to Democrat for the first time in my voting life so that I could vote for him in the primary.
As an interracial child that I am, I feel that all you should know what you are by looking at who sits at your dinner table.Instead of doing this Obama went on a trip around the world to find out who his was, which made everything complicated.He always made it is a life project when it was so easy to figure out.Second, Barack gave his father way to much credit in the book.
By Obama taking too much time on thing that weren’t important made this book one of the worst books I read.
Even if Obama weren't about to become President, this would be quite a worthwhile book. I wasn't crazy about his style, but he has a lot of interesting things to say, and comes across as a very sympathetic person.
His legacy has greatly improved the lives of millions of people, but his politics leaves much to be desired.
Dreams From My Father describes Obama’s early experiences that influence his path into the political arena.
Growing up as a mixed black man raised by a white mother and grandparents and essentially abandoned by his Kenyan father, he struggles to find his identity.
Although he never really gets the opportunity to understand his father in the way that I think most young men want to, he realizes his father’s greatest mistake--the loss in faith.
With great power comes great responsibility and the most dangerous consequence of all is losing faith in people.
Yet another library sale shelf find, this was originally published in 1995, before Barack Obama became the man he was meant to be.This is the story of how he became that man: the forces that shaped him over the years, the internal struggles to understand himself and his family and the world around him.The Chicago chapters did drag a bit for me, but overall the book was wonderful. Next time I go to the library, I want to see which other titles of his are available. I am sure they will be worth reading.
This is what non-whites (not just Afro-Americans) refer to when they talk about being “tired of educating white people.” “They ain’t black!” — student in West Oakland, speaking of Haitian immigrant students.
Meaning, of course, “They ain’t Afro-Americans, like me!”“You ain’t black!” — same student, to me.
What distinguishes white Americans from Chinese, most Europeans, and others from imperial cultural backgrounds is the white Americans’ childish lack of historical context, of the fact that “white American” is an ethnicity.
Barack Obama is revealing his doubts, his fears and questions about who he really is.
This book is a trip back to his origins to find answers.
My favorite parts were the chapters about his childhood in Hawaii and Indonesia and his trip to Kenya to meet his family.
Neither black, nor white, trying to understand his mother and grandparents...
But actually for some people more black than white...
Barack Obama is a good listener!
This book is a great tribute to his grantparents and mother in Hawaii AND to all his family in Kenya (and also to Lolo, his stepfather in Indonesia).
Obama is cerebral and a very good writer. He went a lot of interesting places in this book, all worth following.
Reviewers are sharing their feelings about the symbolism of Obama, and not reviewing the book.
And as a symbol - wow - what a wide variety of feelings from far extremes he represents.Thirteen years ago I read this out of curiosity.
He must have always had his eye on the ball because he managed to write an entire book about himself without really revealing too much.
But the book holds up through the years as 'presidential' quality, and the didactic quality lends maturity to the writings of a young man.
كتبه باراك قبل أن يعتلي عرش السلطة ولا علاقة لهذا الكتاب بكونه رئيس أكبر دولة في العالم بل ربما قد يكون سببا في إيصاله لكرسي الرئاسة ..وفيه ينقل باراك سيرة حياته بين جديه في هاواي ثم ذكرياته مع والدته في إندونيسيا حين تزوجت للمرة الثانية وهناك عاش باراك حياة ريفية عركته الحياة نتيجة لتباين الحياة التي عاشها هناك عن أمريكا يعرض أيضا قصة عودته لأمريكا حيث تبدأ حياة أخرى في إحدى المدارس الخاصة بدأ يعاني فيها من ضياع الهوية والتفرقة العنصرية وحين بدأت تراوه الحيرة في الإنتماء إلى أيا من اللونين !
