https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111792.Overloaded_Ark
I know it was written in another age,but I still can't believe that you could just capture endless amounts of birds, animals and insects from other countries and transport them to the UK, and it was legal!I'm really apalled at the loss of animal life due to the stress of capture/travelling and the fact that it was considered all part of the business of collecting.How anyone could view an animal in it's natural state in the wild and subject it to a lonely life of misery and incarceration is beyond me..."Then I saw them, three large glittering green birds, with long heavy tails and curved crests.
(Although that is a bit like saying Marseilles is the second largest city in France, both statements are still true.) Apparently a true jungle is the dense, tangled undergrowth that springs up when a large rainforest tree is felled, taking advantage of the new access to light and air.I read all of Durrell's books as a precocious child and realized recently that they are also set in rainforest because that's where the greatest number of animals can be found.They are certainly dated on re-reading-- there is something very Kipling-esque in the many scenes of Durrell speaking pidgin with all the native bearers and drinking sundowners with the local Brits--but he has some sense of humor about the typical British colonial and has a prescient awareness of environmental concerns and how important zoos would become in the cause of conservation.
Durrell's voice is winsome, I think, and a little wry, which to my ear dates more slowly than some other, more proper and ponderous nature writers.
I've seen other reviewers complaining about the use of pidgin and the colonial attitude evinced by the author, but it strikes me as perfectly accurate to the early 1950s.
There are also parts about the trapping, keeping, and selling animals I find unsavoury but true to the times.
On the whole, though, his sheer love of wildlife wins the day for me, and Durrell expostulating with dilatory young boys holding dead birds (which they insist are perfectly healthy) is laugh-out-loud funny even after all this time.
Wonderful first book by Gerald Durrell - and one I remember reading many years ago as a boy with enormous pleasure.
Re-reading recently brought back many of those memories, but also raised eyebrows.
Clearly a book of its time; it would be nigh on impossible (and thoroughly illegal) to repeat the exploits described, and tipping workers with tobacco is hardly healthy!
And it would have benefited from a little editing in places.
Definitely worth a read, and a great introduction to the rest of his work.
While I cannot bring myself to like all this "collecting" animals for zoos business, Durrell's writing is just so honest and enjoyable. The smattering of local flavour - with the pidgin and description of local people, the flora and fauna, and general environment- adds so much character to his books. Also, a lot of animal deaths in this book. Made me cry.
I do not think, Durrell would have been able to bring animals from the Cameroons to England, in this day and age ! But the book is hilarious and still brings a smile, after all these years whenever I read a chapter.
Durrell's account of his expedition to the Cameroons in West Africa in 1953, before Independence.
Gerald Durrell books are worth re-reading.
Quizás no estoy siendo justo dándole solo dos estrellas a este primer libro de Durrell, pero no puedo evitar pensar que se trata de una obra menor, muy inferior a otras que escribiría posteriormente: en otros libros cada capítulo tiene sentido en sí mismo, enlazando anécdotas con un hilo en común y a menudo con un final de capítulo que retoma el principio, haciendo evidente que cada capítulo se ha pensado y construido como un todo.
Por otro lado, la presencia de los humanos en este libro es escasa, y es esto precisamente lo que más me gusta de sus libros: la animalización de los comportamientos humanos y la humanización del comportamiento animal.
Mixed review of this book: The author gives absolutely beautiful descriptions of the land and animals of Cameroon, and he shows true compassion for some of them.
However, The Overloaded Ark must be read as a slice in time.
His and his partner’s condescension for the individuals who were hosting them as guests as well as the approved practice of capturing and collecting animals to take back to zoos was very, very hard to read at times.
While our practices are far from perfect now, hopefully, the racism shown towards the Cameroonians and the disregard of some species brought to them, so acceptable over a half century ago, is a thing of the past.

A wonderfully warm, amusing and entertaining tale of Gerald Durrell's first animal collecting trip to Cameroon, or British Cameroon as it was then known. In fact, the British Empire is the only thing that mars this book. Nobody could describe Durrell as a racist with any honesty, but his attitudes are still tainted by the prevailing attitude of the English at the time towards the Colonies, and this would quite rightly be considered racism 70 years later. It sadly dates the book quite badly.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as Durrell's narrative style and humor makes it flow well, be easy to enjoy, and move fairly quickly. This book helps paint a picture of what the forests of British Cameroon were like sixty years ago.
Debut novel by this author, and imho not quite as polished or as humorous as his later works. But still well worth reading, with many LOL moments.
This is definitely a book of its time. It has a lot of era typical racism and zoological practices which can sometimes be wince inducing. However, as a simple tale of a naturalist collecting, it fulfils its job admirably. Each description of every animal is both detailed and sentimental, providing much more joy than a simple clinical description. The narrator is warm and easy to find amusement in.
Не прошло и 15 лет, как я перевезла из родительского дома свои книги в новый дом и вот что-то дёрнуло меня взять эту недочитанную книгу с полки :)В своих повестях Даррелл живо, с юмором и очень по-доброму рассказывает о тех экспедициях в различные уголки планеты, которые он совершал в поисках животных для зоопарков.
А ещё в книгах Даррелла встречаются этнографические заметки, будь то про африканцев или жителей амазонских джунглей, что тоже очень интересно и познавательно.
Хотя порой нужно делать поправку на то, что события происходят в середине 20 века, и мир, особенно "третий", тогда был совсем другой.В общем, если вы ищете что-то лёгкое и увлекательное, милое и приятное, то книги Даррелла - прекрасный выбор.
Another book from another age, or as LP Hartley wrote - "the past is a foreign country, they do things differently there" (I'm sure I've written that before or meant to).
The characters, both people and animals, sparkle with life to paint a time now long gone into the annuals of history.
A book worth reading both for a description of a time now lost to history (correct or not - it was how it was) mixed with a suitable amount of whit mainly aimed at himself!
Having recently re-read Gerald Durrell’s “Corfu Trilogy,” stories of his family’s life on the Greek island of Corfu in the years leading up to the Second World War, I decided to go on and read some of the books Durrell wrote about his experiences collecting animals for zoos, and, later, establishing his own zoo and animal conservation program.
One of the reviews on the back reads, “How seldom it is that books of this kind are written by those who can write!” I, too, love Gerald Durrell’s vivid writing.
Gerald Durrell is always worth reading.
Но никто не берёт в расчёт, что удовлетворение любопытства одних вносит разлад в существование других.
В случае Джеральда Даррелла дело касается сбора коллекции из экзотических обитателей Камеруна для зоологических садов Британии.
Стоит оставить в стороне любовь к природе и посмотреть на деятельность Джеральда со стороны необходимости изучения окружающей среды, к каким бы методам он для этого не прибегал.
К чести Даррелла будет сказать, что он любит свою работу и ратует за сохранение здоровья всем своим питомцам, искренне переживая за каждого из них.
Если и случались смерти, то не по его вине, а в силу невежества местных жителей и особенностей адаптации каждого вида.(c) Trounin
Olipas aika huikea 'matkakertomus' ja kuvaus Kamerunin eläimistöstä! Minuun teki vahvan vaikutuksen se, että kirja on kirjoitettu vuonna 1953 - aikana, jolloin luontodokumenttien tekemiseen ei ollut käytössä digitaalista tallennusta - piirroskuvat ja todella elävä, värikäs kieli pääsevät arvoonsa tässä kirjassa. Eläinten saalistus alkeellisin välinein ja miesvoimin kuulosti hurjalta, ei ole Durrell tarvinnut hankkia jännitystä seikkailupuistoista ;) Lukiessa tuli mieleen, mitä nykyiset eläinsuojelijat tästä kaikesta ajattelevat - eläinten roudaaminen Afrikasta englantilaisiin eläintarhoihin häkeissä rahtilaivalla oli aika eri mittakaavassa kuin täkäläisten delfiinien kuljetus Kreikkaan kuluneena vuonna, siitähän nousi suurehko äläkkä.
Gerald Durrell's narration of his collecting trip to the Cameroons is wry and funny - he pokes fun at himself often - but now, 60 years after this was written - much of it is very politically incorrect. I grew up watching those black and white tv episodes of Tarzan and I loved them, thinking that was the real Africa - and I suppose nowadays people think those shows were racist too. Get past that (and the whole "collecting" animals and removing them from their habitat), and the book is very enjoyable.
It stood quite still, regarding me thoughtfully, and the tip of its tail moved very gently among the grass stalks. I had seen domestic cats looking like this at sparrows, twitching their tails, and I did not feel very happy about it. Also, I was stark naked, and I have found that in moments of crisis to have no clothes on gives one a terribly unprotected feeling. I glared at the Serval, wishing that I had my shorts on and that I could think of some way of capturing it without the risk of being disembowelled.
If you want a retro look into 1950's animal collecting this is the book for you.However keeping in mind it's from the 50's, the racism runs rampant.Also the level of zoological knowledge is very low ,compared to what we know now,and several animals are lost because of this.The best part of the book are the sketches and descriptions of some very rare animals.
On a whim I picked up my parents' old paperback and gave it a read. It's a page-turner. Great at describing flora/fauna of the west African jungle. But OH how the patronizing, patrician attitudes of the imperial British are evident on every page.
This is a nice and interesting book about animals, Africa and a couple of animal collectors. Full of colorful nature and genuine adventures. It a was a great time reading this book. I am sure to continue reading Durrel sometime later.
A delightful account of the author's voyage to Cameroon to collect animal specimens. The book is written with a rich sense of humour and full of colourful depictions of the country and its inhabitants, animal or otherwise.
This was a very funny tale of Gerald Durrell collecting animals from the Cameroon in the 1950's, for Zoo's.
A beautifully eloquent account of one mans adventures collecting animals in the British Cameroons. Highly recommended.
Wonderful, full of humour. That he was enchanted by the Cameroons and the wildlife shines through.
A funny story about a man from England who travels to parts of Africa in order to capture and study animals.
