https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255463.Systematic_Theology
It truly is a work, to perhaps coin a word myself, of "doxological catechisis " Since I am currently book three of four of Bavinck's Dogmatics, it was refreshing to go through Berkhof at a much more comfortable pace and hammer home Reformed doctrines that I had just previously read in Bavinck.
What is great about Berkhof is that his terse style serves to cut to the chase, as it were, and make the final point as clear as possible in contradistinction to opposing viewpoints.
But that was not Berkhof's point, which is namely for instruction, teaching, and catechisis.Understanding the intent and purposes of Berkhof's Systematic, my only complaint is the use of Greek and Hebrew transliteration instead of the actual typesetting.
This is a great reference book. It is organized very well and will serve as a trustworthy guide into theological topics. It is written at a technical level and is Reformed in perspective, but Berkhof also gives contrary viewpoints, which augments its usefulness as a reference book and forces judiciousness to its Reformed perspective. The one big drawback is the theology the book contains isn't applied to life. If you are looking for a standard, thorough, and Reformed touchstone for engaging theological topics, Berkhof is your man.
Pros: 1. Berkhof did his homework and nicely covers most contrary opinions. 2. He clearly states the issue and does a decent job presenting it.3. I think it is better than Bavinck. It is only one volume and you get the same material, and I think better presented. Cons:1. It reads like a dictionary, and not necessarily an English one at that!2. The binding is horrible. You will have carpal tunnel syndrome at least once a week while reading it.
This is an amazing reference book of theological goodness, but for your own sake give it your full attention while reading. This is not a book that you just pick up and read for a second or two; it requires intense thought to keep up with the various subpoints (and dare I say, sub-sub-points) presented. All said, however, it is an amazing journey.
It was nicknamed the "big–blue-sleeping-pill" in seminary, but I couldn't read it after dinner or I wouldn't be able to go to bed. That said it's a little dated and lists proof texts without context. If liberals tend to through money at things Berkhof throws Bible verses.
One of the most succinctly clear systematic theologies I have come in contact with. I appreciate Berkhof's wisdom and catholicity in content. Berkhof has bookended my undergrad experience at Reformation Bible College and finally putting down this work is truly bittersweet.
I had the privilege of reading Louis Berkhof’s, Systematic Theology.
On a side note, speed-reading is very effective if done correctly… hopefully in another blog I can write about the methods I’ve used and read about that helped tremendously.Going to the content of the book: I was extremely impressed by Berkhof’s work and his trenchant style of writing.
He begins withScripture (updated version) moves on toGod’s existence,Theology Proper,Decree (accomplished),Creation,Man,Covenant(s),Fall,Christology,Soteriology (applied),Ecclesiology, andEschatology.Some of the things I noticed in Berkhof that were different than Grudem was his use of Church history, heavy reliance of predestination and a strong covenant theology.
God often restrains sin (Gen 3:6; Job 1:12, 2:6; Ps 76:10; Isa 10:15; Acts 7:51).Constitutional Nature of ManBody & spirit are the only 2 constitutional elements of man.
Man's dominion over lower creation may be part of Image (Gen 1:26; Ps 8:5-6).Man in the Covenant of WorksDoctrine of covenant of works was developed after Reformation, though its elements are present in writings of Reformers & of early church fathers.God created a legal compact with man.
1 Thess 2:3-4 says day of Christ can't come until after the falling away and man of sin (son of perdition), which reminds of Dan 11:36ff and speaks of Antichrist.What we know about Antichrist: Anti-Christian principle was already at work in days of Paul and John.
Still, for the rare Christian who loves Grudem's Systematic Theology but has never heard of Berkhof (or Bavinck), you owe it to yourself to purchase this work.First, Berkhof's Systematic Theology is manageable in size.
Still a massive tome, this is nothing compared to Calvin's Institutes or Bavinck's Reformed Dogmatics.
Further, Berkhof is American, and that in itself means you're reading his words, rather than a translation of his words.
That provides a flow to the text that even in the wonderful translations of Calvin, Luther, and Bavinck, is somewhat lacking.You also get Berkhof's introduction in editions from 1996 on.
Fairly standard mainline reformed theology here...
For example, his defense of the covenant of works is absolutely worthless in that there really isn't any exegetical defense, just a listing of people who have maintained it down through the last few hundred years.
One should read the text only because it is a standard text in the reformed tradition, but if you are looking for a good systematic theology, one that does some exegetical ground work, one that has a broader grasp of history beyond the reformed tradition, I would point you elsewhere...
This was great in it's day and context. Pretty dry. Really good for 20th century reformed understanding. But as I read more Biblical Horizons and Hebrew OT, if find myself more inspired by Calvin--his stuff has is less philosophical and ivory towered. More passionate and connected to real practical battles.
This was a textbook for systematic theology classes that I took both at Denver Seminary (Conservative Baptist) and Calvin Theological Seminary. As far as systematic theology textbooks go, this is probably one of the best and more substantial of those used in evangelical colleges and seminaries in the U.S.
It took me 8 months to read, but I finally finished.
Every paragraph is worth it.....Make this a part of your daily devotions! You can read through it in a year by just 3 pages a day!
Other than Calvin's "Institutes of the Christian Religion", perhaps the most important Reformed work on Systematic Theology. A hard, but must read for anyone serious about understanding theology.
Haven't actually read it cover to cover, but it is a regular aide in my teaching prep. Pretty darn good.
I read this book simply to learn more about the truths of Scripture.
This was the first Systematic Theology which I read cover to cover.
I have to say I enjoyed reading this book, though it was slow going.
I knew from the start that this was going to be akin to hiking a tall mountain; the going is slow, but the view will be worth it!Berkhof's Systematic Theology was clearly outlined and organized.
He often presented it historically (Church fathers, Middle Ages, Reformed, modern day), and clearly explained the various theological viewpoints.In the end, I am left with a deeper appreciation of God's Word and admiration for the Creator Himself.
The nature of a systematic theology book is that there is never enough space given to the questions you're really interested in.
His answers are not comprehensive, but they are thorough.A unique aspect of this systematic is given when he wrote it, there are references and critiques to the positions that were popular at the time, including extensive responses to classical Protestant Liberalism, with its anti=supernaturalism, Darwinism, and Barth's neo-orthodoxy.I'd recommend it for someone who has a little experience in reading systematic theology before, and who is ready to do some heavy mental lifting (particularly in the doctrine of God section).
A standard for a reason. Provides an excellent overview of all the main loci of theology, without becoming extremely technical. Interacts with various viewpoints. I wish the interactions had been slightly more thorough, but that was probably outside of his scope, and more thorough interaction cam be found in other longer systematics. Definitely go with one of the Eerdmans editions, my nameless reprint (blue paperback) was full of typos and did not include footnotes or a detailed index.
Berkhof is dense and slow going, but makes up for any perceived shortcoming by his penetrating insights. In a number of portions he can say in a few pages what many need volumes to say. And despite being older, this has held up very well. I would easily recommend this to the aspiring student of theology (although reading it at night would not be wise given it is definitely dense), and is a masterpiece among one volume systematic books.
Solid Systematic. I got a lot out of it and will refer to it often. I give parts 1-4 a much higher rating than parts 5-6 (the church and eschatology). But as a Premillennial Baptist reading a Presbyterian theology, that is to be expected. On the high side of 3 stars.
One of the most thorough systematics there is. It's worth adding to your shelf. I hope to reference it for years to come.
Brilliant mind. Boring read. Bavinck is preferable. Begin all sentences with "b."
My favorite ST. It has become my go to. Love how Berkhof engages those outside of the Reformed Tradition. Was majorly helpful to me. If I could recommend one ST, this is the one.
This was great and the prose were easy. I'd really recommend it for a first run through a systematic.
Classic...very good.
The weaknesses of this work are (1) it's lack of documentation, (2) its dated discussions, and (3) it's lack of exegesis.
Concerning (1), I'm skeptical of historical analysis and sketches of opposing systems that don't quote directly and document the sources.
Concerning (2), Berkhof's interaction with opposing ideas is pretty dated.
Concerning (3), Berkhof proof-texts the issues 85% of the time.
However, I read Robert Reymond's New Systematic Theology of the Christian Faith last year and I think his work is stronger exegetically than Berkhof's.
This volume served as an introduction to the 1932 publication of Louis Berkhof’s Reformed Dogmatics, and was revised for the 1938 publication of his Systematic Theology. This volume serves as a prolegomena to Berkhof’s entire systematic, defining dogma, the idea of dogmatic theology, and the relationship of theology to apologetics, ethics, and science. He also outlines the task, method, and history of dogmatics. By explaining the Reformed notion of revelation, inspiration, and human understanding, this volume adds important context and meaning to the Systematic Theology.
Berkhoff, Grudem, Hodge - three great authors for Systematic Theology from a Reformed perspective. Make sure to get all three on your shelf and read through them! If you are a younger reader, Berkhoff's "Manual of Christian Doctrine" takes Berkhoof's "Systematic Theology" and breaks it down to more simplistic terms and outlines. Berkhoff also has study questions at the end of each chapter for consideration that is helpful to ponder the material presented.
I got this for father 19s day and since then have been reading it straight through. Obviously its not meant to be read in that way. But its a very good systematic reformed theology, meant to be consulted on particular topics, and its very good for that purpose (if maybe a little brief on a number of items). But definitely not easy bedtime reading!
