https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114701.Into_the_Land_of_the_Unicorns
That's just me trying to explain, in actual words, how much I love this book and why.
Did I mention the book pairs perfectly with The Last Unicorn?
The secondary characters are so lively and inventive, I'm surprised they didn't pop out from between the pages.But I think what I loved most about Into the Land of the Unicorns was the sense of enchantment, awe, and just plain wonderment so often missing from children's literature today.
I only wish I'd read this book years ago when it was first published, and I was a wee thing.
I have to run out and get the next book in the series!
Ths is a really lovely story, creating the imaginary world of Luster peopled or should that be beinged by recognizably imaginary creatures such as Unicorns, Dragons, Dwarves and then assorted creations from the imagination of Bruce Coville.
The Dragon, perfectly named as Lady Firethroat, protects herself by the enchantment of her heart kept safe in a golden casket, Three drops of her hot blood dropped in a jewelled chalice shares her gift of 'the gift of tongues, of knowledge of the languages of all creatures', the unicorn's horn heals physical ills and wounds and involves the unicorn giving of him/herself in the act.
There’s really nothing wrong with the book that I can find to warrant only 4 stars – but for me, I’m used to more in-depth books with great detail to the plots.
This was the only thing I wanted more of; I felt there was enough plot and character back-story that the book could have been expanded and delved into further.
Though, perhaps that wasn’t the author’s intent – or it wasn’t the intent of this book since it’s a series.However, I would think this a great book to start out for younger readers.
And it’s a delightful treat for those of us who adore fantasy books to read between tomes!
I can remember being eight years old and desperately waiting through class to get to the silent reading part of the day, where I would eagerly grab Into the Land of the Unicorns and disappear from my classroom entirely.
I reread it multiple times that year and loved it more each time.
I can say that without a doubt this is the book that sparked my passion for fantasy.
If it weren't for this book I don't know if I would have become such a hardcore fan of the fantasy genre.
I will definitely read it again as an adult.
At first I wasn't 100% into the audiobook style and found it a bit jarring to go from the narrator (Coville) to the dialogue voices.
I think once Cara crossed over into the Luster though, the style smoothed out and it was pleasant to listen to.
The story was a bit darker than I was expecting, but I think the message that family is not always your blood relatives is an important one.
My favorite part might have been when we learned why unicorns had to escape to another world.
Overall this had a charm to it and I'd like to read the next in the series.
Two stars for grown-ups, but four stars if you're 12 or younger.I got this book from the library to read with my six-year-old because I was a huge unicorn fan when I was a kid.
I would have adored this book at her age; at the ripe old age of 30-something, though, it was a tough slog.Shy, misunderstood Cara has lived most of her life with her mysterious, somewhat distant grandmother, Ivy Morris.
When Cara uses it, she is transported to Luster, the land of the unicorns.Coville's writing, as well as his mythology, are mediocre at best and eye-rolling at worst.
This was the book of my childhood! I was absolutely obsessed with it in third grade. Looking back at it, I realize that it was probably a pretty corny book, but I can't let go of my fondness for it. Preteen kids who enjoy fantasy should definitely read this one.
On a beautiful spring day, anywhere from 10 to 15 years ago, my sister and I were playing outside on the terrace.
To this day, any mention of Sky Dancers sends everyone in the family into peals of hysterical laughter.Playing with Sky Dancers and reading this book (not at the same time) are two of my stronger childhood memories.
And then I forgot about it completely, until a few months ago when my sister and I changed our topic of conversation from African warlords to unicorns and I vaguely remembered an amazing book with marvelous unicorn characters.
I READ THIS LIKE A SUPER LONG TIME AGO WHEN I WAS 10 AND I CAN'T REMEMBER ANYTHING EXCEPT I LOVED IT
What a great book! From the beginning to the end. I wish I could go back in time and read this when I was younger. *Sigh* Very much looking forward to the rest of these books!
I first read it when I was in elementary school.
In 6th grade, I found it in the school library's recycling bin and promptly stole it (it was going to be thrown out anyway, and was still in good condition).
I've read it at least 10 times.
Loved it from the very first.
I re-read it last year, expecting it to be boring and too young for my tastes (it followed a novel five times its size), but it still had me laughing 'til I cried.
I have to make my friend read it because he behaves very much like Lightfoot.
I've always loved Coville.
This was the book that got me into reading. It was so good and I loved it so much. I still remember what it felt like to get so involved with the characters, and to feel as if I could go along on the journey with them. It's fantastic for young readers (and adult readers too, although it's more directed to a younger audience). It will always be special to me :)
This is one of those books that helped form my concept of classic fantasy and of magical worlds. I now remember very little about it, but this book is why I loved unicorns so much, and why my first-ever novel (written and rewritten from 2nd to 8th grade and still in the back of my head, just waiting for something to restart and electrify it) starred unicorns.
I chose this book because I knew they weren't likely to read it on their own (unicorns and a female protagonist made this seem a little too 'girly' for them).
Throw in a creature that resembles a half man, half bear; a Disney-ish squirrel-like creature called a Squijum; a dwarf, a dragon, and a whole glory of unicorns, and you have one of the most unique fantasy stories around.The book is a quick and easy read, and we're already well in to book #2.
I first read this book when I was about 10 years old.
This book really was what started me on fantasy and fairy tales.....I had read all of The Narnia series before hand but for some reason this book resonates within me the most.
Maybe its something that I connect with my childhood and how when your ten anything still seems possible and to you and Unicorns really are real.
That is something I miss the most about childhood is the ability to dream and really believe what you dream can become a reality.
I cannot wait till My daughters are old enough and can enjoy this book for themselves.....
I really like how Cara's grandmother sacrificed herself t o save Cara and how she didn't play around.
I am glad that Cara got out of there and that she was safe.
I am glad that they found her instead of someone else.
I hate how the Dimblethum is captured and I really like how Cara insists that they stay behind to save him.
I like how Thomas finds them and how he and Cara become friends almost immediately.
I really like how she loves all of her friends and how she is so unwilling to leave any of them behind.
This is a story of a young girl's travel into a land where the unicorns live.
This young girl and her grandmother were being chased by a hunter and grandmother gave her amulet to the girl to save her and sent her to the other land.
This story is highly recommended for the offhand advice the author gives to young reader on tolerance and patience and all the virtues most readers are not especially well versed in yet and does it in such a way that it is mixed into the story and relevant.
Kudo's to the author!

Ok for unicorn lovers.
In the story into the land of unicorn their was unicorns and dragons .they did not hurt they were super nice. I also like how they described everything .I thought i was in the story . i also suggest you read this book because you will want another series in the book .
Written in 1994 and it still holds up beautifully. This is a delightful fantasy that I thoroughly enjoyed. I can't wait to dive into the remaining books in the series.
This book is a very intriguing book. The relationship between Cara and her grandmother can make your heart melt. This book will peak the interest of the reader best if they are looking for an adventure from the main characters point of view. Within this book you can connect and really get to know some of the characters. While reading I was engaged in the plot. I would definitely recommend this book.
When Cara jumps of the church roof with the amulet her grandmother asked her to protect, she ends up in the land of the unicorns.
With a Delver army and a human hunter on their tail they head for the Queen of the Unicorns, but can they stay ahead of their enemies and keep the amulet out of enemy hands?Not one to stay clear from children's books if the story appeals to me, I felt drawn to Bruce Coville's Unicorn Chronicles from the start.
Book one in The Unicorn Chronicles has a simple, straightforward plot that is very pleasing.
The language is at a level where younger children can read and understand but isn’t so bland for older readers (or re-readers) to still get enjoyment out of it.
I love how you don’t really know how old Cara is but you can see her mature from earlier in the book.
Coville was able to keep Cara a child while asking her to make hard decisions throughout the book.I do wish it was more descriptive and detailed about locations or characters.
Cara is in a whole new world and I would like to know everything about it.
It also makes for a great book for families to read together!
When I got the fourth book in the mail and opened the title page, I had this weird feeling that my life was a little more complete just knowing I'd finally be able to read the rest of the story I started when I was a kid.
First, though, I've got to reread the books that come before it.I was a little surprised how much I liked Into the Land of the Unicorns, even all these years later.
But I will always, always love this book, and looking back on some of my own stories, I think Bruce Coville is maybe one of the authors that influenced my writing more than anyone else.
Inside the story there was no reason for her to trust any of them.The grandmother, who Cara loves and trusts completely, was kind of crazy and not in the lovable way.
And when he does show up at the end, while many of his motives were still unclear to me, they made more sense than the others and I found myself on his side.
And I honestly don't understand why Cara didn't too.The entire backstory with Beloved still makes no sense to me and is thin motive at best.
I laughed my way through that whole part.Honestly, the only redeeming part of the book was Thomas the Tinker (THOMAS
I got book 1 & 2 of the Unicorn Chronicles years ago but never sat down to read them.
On the technical end, Coville's writing isn't anything special and veers a bit more on the amatuer-ish side.
I get the sense that he often tries a bit too hard in his writing.
All things considered, this is easily overlooked in favor of the sincerity of the the characters and the story.The characters are charming and I like how he reowkred the popular unicorn myth into his setting.
As a fan of all things unicorns, I find myself very much at home with this book.
Firstly I would like to mention that I am 20 years old, in my 3rd year of college, and still I read this one time and time again.
It was and is one of my favorites.
Bruce Coville wrote this one when I was 3, and came out with the last one when I was 18, so his style develops and changes a LOT over the 4 books.
Kids will create an amazing land in their imaginations to escape to after a tough day among schoolyard bullies and the like.
I LOVE this book.
I originally read it years ago and fell in love.
Then for years I wanted (in vain a thought) for the next book.
I am not patient for books to come out, usually if a book takes more than 2 years I just give up on the series.
But enough about that-back to this story!!This book is filled with wonder and magic.
I adore Cara as a character she is a strong girl with a good heart.
I wish I could have learned more about Luster in this book but it is such a short story.
I read this book back in 3rd or 4th grade and I loved it.
I loved it so much that when it took years for the author to write the third book, I wrote him a letter saying how much I wanted the story to continue.
This book is also the prime reason why I don't want to read the book Rampant by Diana Peterfreund, since it is about unicorn hunters.
While the book is a charming children's story, the new audiobook certainly is quite terrible.
