https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3153167-strange-interlude
And there's this third guy Sam, who's kind of a dope and wants to marry her.RAND: Sounds okay so far.O'NEILL: You don't think I need more men who are helplessly smitten with Nina and worship the very ground she walks on?
She makes sure she gets pregnant right away.RAND: And then?O'NEILL: So she's pregnant, and she meets Sam's mother for the first time.
Now Sam doesn't know she's pregnant yet, but she tells the mother.RAND: I don't see where you're going yet--O'NEILL: Give me a minute.
He's a dope, right?RAND: Okay, so now what?O'NEILL: Well, Nina has fallen in love with Ned. She wants to leave Sam to be with him.
She more or less abandons her children, she moves out of her house once she has developed a capacity to earn money via her art, she takes lovers - all this whilst her husband attempts to keep up appearances, hoping as a doctor has advised him, that Edna's behaviour is an aberration that will correct itself.Nina, having lost her juvenile love in WWI, becomes a nurse of wounded soldiers and starts sleeping with them - maybe that will make them feel better.
Sarei curiosa di vederlo in teatro perché ritengo che non sia affatto facile metterlo in scena.Verso la fine dell’ultimo atto c’è una frase che riassume benissimo il contenuto di questo dramma: ”…parleremo insieme dei vecchi tempi…di quand’ero ragazza…quando ero felice…prima di innamorarmi di Gordon Shaw, e che cominciasse tutto questo pasticcio d’amore e di odio e di dolore e di maternità…”Ecco, “Strano Interludio” è proprio questo, un pasticcio di amore, odio, dolore e maternità, dove la vita, che scorre tra successi personali, paure, ferite, rimpianti e rimorsi, altro non è che “Uno strano e buio interludio nell’elettrico spettacolo di Dio Padre”.
Avremmo dovuto immaginare che la vita era stata creata nel dolore della maternità di Dio-Madre.
E allora avremmo capito perché noi, Suoi figli, abbiamo ereditato il dolore, poiché avremmo saputo che il ritmo della nostra vita batte col Suo gran cuore, lacerato dallo spasimo dell'amore e della maternità.
O’Neill uses Freud & stream-of-consciousness. The result is melodrama that would be clunky on stage.
أتذكر جيدا و ان اخذ أنفاسي بين الحين والآخروأفكر بين نفسي في الحكموأفكر إن كنت أنا إحدى شخصيات كاتب 
high-brow soap opera
"...the only living life is in the past and future...the present is an interlude...strange interlude in which we call on past and future to bear witness we are living!..."Nine acts unfold in O'Neill's full-length play over generations and decades of life forever touched by death, a single death of a character who never utters even a single word in the whole play.
Aside from its soap opera feel which seems an O'Neill constant judging by my early impressions, Strange Interlude carries an organic realness stemming from the highly relatable theme of the inescapability from one's own past.
O'Neill was without doubt the greatest American playwright. This work, while occasionally melodramatic and even lurid, probes deeply the personalities of its characters as they deal with unrequited love and the darkest of secrets. It also shows how their personalities change over the course of years in a manner that's almost Proustian.
The play is overlong, but this primary detraction is more than made up for by absolutely perfect opening and closing scenes, the former which rises again to the heights of Agamemnon in its relation of Gordon’s death in World War II to the threnody for the fallen soldiers at Ilium, the latter with its crepuscular language powerful enough to summon the beautiful God of Death.
Dragged out of a pile of crusty old books by my daughter at a nearby garage sale and added to a tower of seemingly ancient tomes rescued from literary oblivion this weekend by our thrifty excursions was Strange Interlude, a play published in 1928.
Now we reach the true drama, the parental question before me: Do I permit my adult-in-training to finish reading the play discussing fully all moral and literary implications of the work along with the author’s life or…should this Strange Interlude simply vanish mysteriously into the atheistic void of crumbling hedonistic culture from which it came?
Hitchcock said that actors should be treated like cattle.
Maybe on the stage it might work better, but this brings me back to the Hitchcock quote.
O'Neill is having the actors just be cattle in that their acting is almost superfluous - why bring out the back story or motivations in their craft if they are spewing out their inner secrets to the audience all their time?
O'Neill was in the middle of a lot of experimentation at the time of this play - with Greek choruses, expressionism and symbolism.
I never thought that I would say this, but this seems like more of a play to be read than a play to be seen.
That and there was just as much internal thought written out in this play as there was dialogue.
An actor could portray a lot of the sentiment, but the audience would never get the actual words that O'Neill (strangely) wrote.Overall I thought that the plot had very strange points.
This came out in there internal thoughts.
That is not a great feeling to read over and over again.So I don't really recommend this particular play.
This rambling NINE ACT play spans decades, explores the birth and death of both characters and relationships.
While I assume this is O'Neill's exaggerated use of the soliloquy or aside, the shear amount of thinking these characters do and the rapidity with which they jump from thinking to conversation made me wonder how you would actually realize this onstage.
Again, I am not sure how this show is actually supposed to be staged and would take a Herculean effort of stage design, extremely quick aging make-up and wig changes, a strong and clear direction of how to treat the characters' "thoughts".
and actors who can believably play characters who age from their 20s/30s through their 60s/70s.
Maybe he could get away with a play or two by saying it's the plot, but all three I've read are centered around an awfully written woman who's problems are centered around not being the right kind for the men of the story (who are also generally unlikable by today's standard).
There's rarely any plot besides this, in Strange Interlude it's spiced up with Nina's lifetime of mistakes and constant hold on the first man she loved (the years where Nina is so depressed she didn't "give herself" to Gordon made me want to hurl), before she of course ends up after she's spent her lifetime of paying debts to the men in her lives, with the nice guy Marsden.
*3.65The plot moved on well - I never got bored - yet it simultaneously was... almost like any young adult fiction: that is, a high school drama, or soap opera... slightly disappointing. But I suppose I liked it well enough.And it still warrants a good rating due to the interesting technique of quasi-stream-of-consciousness in a play. I haven't really seen it to such an extent before, and am interested in how it'd work out onstage.
Odd play - very melodramatic. All love and sex and tortured denials. Have to believe that the extensive internal monologues would be distracting or dull on stage, though I don't know for sure.
