https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136081.Dearly_Devoted_Dexter
(B+) 78% | GoodNotes: Charming yet gross, but not disturbingly so; there’s little immediacy as Dexter’s never really threatened or in danger.
Dexter is an interesting character. However, Lindsay is not a particularly strong writer. These books would probably work better as pure character studies, because the thriller elements don't work. Everything wrapped up too quickly, and there were some big jumps (Deb and Kyle? I had to go back and look to make sure I hadn't missed a few chapters where they suddenly became attached). I may read the next book this summer just to see what happens with Dexter and Cody, but I hope the story is better next time around.
Dexter is in time-out.[image error]In book two- Sergeant Doakes is keeping a close watch on Dexter, which makes it impossible for our anti-hero to get up to any of his usual mischief.
Kyle recruits Deborah- who in turn asks Dexter, to use his special "psycho" tracking skills -to help them find the killer/serial mutilator, called "Dr. Danco".This was a tough read for me.
The "murders" in DEARLY DEVOTED DEXTER are quite gruesome and disturbing, and stayed with me well after I put the book down.
Cheers, PirateSteve!If book one, DARKLY DREAMING DEXTER, was an eight on the horrifying scale then turn the dial right up to eleven.
More suspense, more emotion, and definitely more investment in Dexter as a hero.
What is truly a boon to the series is Dexter's developing character and his interpersonal relationships, which for someone who is incapable of emotions is very interesting to watch how he navigates.There is something sweet about Dexter, an earnestness that shine through that makes him lovable.
He may not be capable of emotional attachments, but he uses logic to validate his relationships in the finest form of rationalization I've seen in awhile.
Second day of my Dexter Morgan marathon and Book Two is done.
Doakes has a much better role in the Showtime series.
Dearly Devoted Dexter is probably my least favorite addition to Lindsay's series.
Mind you, I have not read Double Dexter or Dexter's Final Cut, therefore I have no inkling as to the quality of those two books.
Sorry, but the main issue I had with this book is a spoiler.
(hide spoiler)]Aside from that, Dearly Devoted Dexter is one of the funnier books in the series due to the main baddie, Danko, and Dexter's musings about the psycho's work.
While Dearly Devoted is actually in many ways a better book than Darkly Dreaming—it’s way less rushed, for one, and funnier—it is so deeply disturbing that I’m still feeling freaked out several days after finishing it.
What makes Dexter the way he is and the ways in which he interacts with other people are fully explored—interesting questions are raised, and there is emotional development, even if it’s in Dexter-appropriate tiny, stunted, sick amounts.
As part of a series, where things would (I would hope) change and develop, it’s just gratuitous slaughter, and it made me feel icky.
Dexter the man who finds it hard to feel, in this story Dexter does not get down bloody and as dark as i have seen on the tv-series or read in Darkly Dreaming Dexter.
He plays the role well as a caring brother and as a family man and loves kids but as he tries to keep up with the crowd his sociopath personality is dying to kill.
This story serves up some more ramblings of Dexter's mind and dark humour, its not a tense or gripping thriller but provides a good dose of entertainment in Dexter trying to keep the Dark passenger at bay.
Dexter is being followed by Sergeant Doakes, preventing him from doing what he does. He tools around. Dexter gets sucked into an investigation with his sister, when she seems to fall for a fed from a super secret agency. It seems they are trying to find a guy known for dirty tricks in the dirty wars in Central America. I kept expecting to see Doc Ford make an appearance.It's okay, but Dexter really isn't my thing.
The hazard, I suppose, of a second book following a similar format to the first, but you can't have every killer be related to Dexter.
The author stuck the landing but maybe didn't nail all the technical elements along the way.
The second is my somewhat bizarre happiness that Cody likes to kill things and Astor likes to watch, so Dexter has kids, in his own special way.
I like that Dexter is going to have someone(s) who get him, in a way I don't think he's ever had.
(After all, the show is filled with an amazing cast of characters.) Unfortunately, in the books author Jeff Lindsay focuses on portraying Dexter as an emotionless and cold blooded predator.
This technique would work if the supporting cast was written a little better.
But the rest of the characters are written to have even less personality than emotionally and psychologically fucked up Dexter.
Considering how detached Dexter is from the world around him, and how little emotion he displays towards the people in his life, this story would have worked so much better as a short, or a novella.
And while reading the book that is the face I saw when it comes to Dexter, as were all the faces of the characters mentioned in the book like Deborah, sarge Doakes and the gorgeous Rita.
WHich brings Dexter to Rita and the kids a lot showing his innocence and the same time giving her the idea that she is more than special.A killer enters the area and his methods alarm the higher authorities and the case gets taken away and everybody is told t forget what they have seen or heard.
Meh. I just keep reading. But the narration gets less and less novel. And the plot is expected. Most of the story is filled with YA thrillers.
In my opinion, this book was much better than the first novel.
Although a lot of my opinion is based on the fact that I knew the entire plot of the first book before I even read one page.The writing in this book is clever, intelligent, and funny.
Besides the comedic relief the author provides with this novel, there are parts in the book which are entirely bone-chilling and mentally enthralling.
This was a fast-paced crime novel which didn't slow until the very last page.
Jeff Lindsay is a true artist in the crime novel genre and I can't wait to read the next book in this series.
Reread for me, several years after the initial read. I listened to the audiobook this time around, which gave the book a little extra something.I enjoyed this, but the TV show was better in my opinion. That said, I still very much enjoyed this audiobook as it was read out by the author himself.
Iar Dexter nu poate să îl ucidă, pentru că Doakes nu corespunde „Codului lui Harry”...
Ce soluție rămâne?Poate doar o dubioasă alianță Dexter - Doakes, căci noul inamic public ajunge să aibă gânduri cu amândoi...Cartea este foarte bună, chiar dacă unele elemente ale poveștii sunt scoase din pălărie, și unele reacții/decizii ale personajelor, neverosimile (ataraxice, chiar).NB Oficial, seria a doua a serialului nu este o ecranizare a acestui al doilea volum.
1 a Codului, miraculos, din „Nu face rău inocenților!” în „Nu te lăsa prins!”, înscenarea făcută de Dexter lui Doakes fiind, pentru serial, un prim, dar decisiv pas pe Apa Sâmbetei ).
Well, the poor thing was obviously drunk, but even so,Cute? Me? I suppose too much alcohol can blur the sight, but come on.what could possibly be cute about someone who would rather cut you open than shake your hand?  yeah ok so i finally bought book two and i had to settle with this ugly ass cover because i don't buy books from the internet *i'm suffering*.believe it or not, there is a reason it took me like 6years to buy it.the universe just doesn't want me to read this series...let's see ho
yeah ok so i finally bought book two and i had to settle with this ugly ass cover because i don't buy books from the internet *i'm suffering*.believe it or not, there is a reason it took me like 6years to buy it.the universe just doesn't want me to read this series...let's see how long it will take me to get Dexter in the Dark back to the review.i loved it.i know shocker.the violence was great and i love Dexter as a character.btw i love Rita and i missed her.what an onlivious queen.bitch went from dating a drunk and abusive asshole to dating an emotionless serial killer.she needs to stay single...
This book is filled with scenes like that, scenes that turn our expectations against us and make us look at things from a slightly different perspective.Watching Dexter's complete confusion over how to deal with Rita is always hilarious.
If you have a really dark and twisted sense of humor, and like reading about rather dark and twisted vigilantes, then you definitely need to spend some time with Dexter Morgan.Series Information: Dexter Morgan seriesBook 1: Darkly Dreaming Dexter, review linked hereBook 2: Dearly Devoted DexterBook 3: Dexter in the DarkBook 4: Dexter by DesignBook 5: Dexter is DeliciousBook 6: Double DexterBook 7: Dexter's Final CutDisclosure: I purchased this book for myself.
"Freedom is such a fragile, fleeting thing, isn't it?"I think I have enjoyed more this one than the first one.
(view spoiler)[When Kyle was caught I was really anxious and I was also nervous with Sergent Doakes spying on Dexter all the time...
(hide spoiler)]I like very much how the writer mix Dexter's life and "hobby" with homicides and investigations.But...
after finishing the book a question remains in my head: (view spoiler)[Why don't we know anything about Dexter's brother?
(hide spoiler)]I think I will read the third part soon!
Isn't it a lovely thing?
Dearly Devoted Dexter was a good read.
I really enjoy the main character (Dexter) in the two books I have read.
You have to love a book with a strong main character and a good story line.
Which keeps you interested and wanting to read the next book in the series.
Unlike some books that don't give you enough about the main character in the series and kind of drag on thru the story.
I did like this book but liked the first a little more.
So I gave Dearly Devoted Dexter 3 1/2 stars.
The book was another amazing edition of everyone's favorite serial killer. Full of twists, humor and a broad underlying storyline with so many possibilities.Normally, I love hearing the author read their own work as they simply have the attachment to the characters and story like no one else. However, Jeff Lindsay did not do justice to the dialogue of the varied characters. I guess I can't expect to be wowed by every author's speaking voice, but having had such great experiences with several others, I was a bit let down in this instance.
3.5
This time he’s on the trail of a terrible sociopath who takes the body parts of his victims without taking their lives – leaving mewling, horrible, barely-human torsos behind.
Dexter and his sister Deborah are drawn into the case even deeper when Deborah’s love interest is also taken by the sociopath.
Doakes is taken, and Dexter rescues Deborah’s love interest.
He removes their appendages slowly while the victims are heavily drugged, gives them time to heal and makes sure they don’t die from shock.
Siguiente página.Admiro profundamente al autor de esta saga que, aun habiendo yo leído solo dos de sus obras por el momento, consiguió llamar 100% mi atención gracias a la creación de Dexter, un personaje psicológicamente complejísimo, componiendo un perfil casi hipnótico que atrapa a lectores ávidos del género.
Dexter now has to attempt to save his sister Deborah's new boyfriend from the killer, but maybe he can use Doakes as bait and solve that problem too...Dexter's psychology was on display here more than in the first book, as he can't do much about his "Dark Passenger" with Doakes watching him.
His interactions with Rita and the children seem so fake, compared to the television show where you see his happy face but don't hear his dark thoughts.
This case was not covered by the television series, and because of Dexter's lack of emotions we don't get to see any of the after effects of what Doakes endures.
I was a dearly devoted fan of the Showtime series from day one.
This is the first (and the last) of the Dexter books I will be reading.Oh my dear Dexter, I like you way better on my TV screen than in this novel.
Deviant as you are, Dexter, nothing ever happened in the delicious series that repulsed and disgusted me like this book did.
And poor Deborah, how can you stand being called “Debs” by your brother, not to mention putting up with his constant, peculiar sense of humor, which really strained my patience and was not that funny?Besides being repugnant, the plot was just silly.
Not to mention she actually likes it?

Чиста, рафинирана, кристална красота!!! Без сантиментализми, без излишни упражнения по словесен дрисък, без условности. Само ДЕКСТЪР. Най-добрият. Точка.
Segundo de la serie Dexter. A pesar de lo truculento que es ,la verdad es que el personaje me hace gracia. Igual me leo los 8 libros del tirón😁
The author has a knack for funny descriptions, like this one, that just work for me.“He stood there for a moment, gaping around, his receding reddish hair looking like it had gone through a storm and his pale belly hanging slightly over the waist of his dingy pajama bottoms.
Dexter in the third person was often too cutesy for his own good and started to sound really corny as the book went along.As with Darkly Dreaming Dexter, I again listened to the audio version read by author Jeff Lindsay.
Jeff Lindsay does a very good job voicing Dexter though.
Dexter is a great help to his sister investigating killers, because Dexter thinks like them.
There is a happy ending for the good guys.I like the weirdness of Dexter - what goes through his mind.
It was stupid.Kyle has a list of names the bad guy is after, but he doesn’t give the names to any other cop.
But no, it was an afterthought in the Epilogue saying Dexter took care of it.I do have to say the author was good with details about how the killer caught his victims and some of his conversation as he sliced.
