https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/512475.The_Cradle_Will_Fall
EXPERIMENTAL READ OF THE MONTH: MAY 2016 Every month my friends and I go out of our comfort zones and embrace the world outside historical and contemporary romance. Thanks for accompanying me on this wild ride, sraxe!DNF@24%.Let's play a guessing game. Why do you think sraxe and I both DNF-ed this book?A. Because it's predictable as hell, and we found out who the killer was early on in the bookB. Because the main character, Katie, was an invertebrate with a non-existent personalityC. Because th
EXPERIMENTAL READ OF THE MONTH: MAY 2016
Every month my friends and I go out of our comfort zones and embrace the world outside historical and contemporary romance.
Thanks for accompanying me on this wild ride, sraxe!DNF@24%.Let's play a guessing game.
Why do you think sraxe and I both DNF-ed this book?A.
Because the main character, Katie, was an invertebrate with a non-existent personalityC.
Because the love interest, Richard, was a douchebag who kissed another woman later on in the book (granted, Richard and Katie weren't officially together, but hell, man, you were already putting the moves on her, you mofo)D.
Ding.
Ding.
I even ended up DNFing this a quarter of the way in.Although the last book, No Place Like Home, took some time to pick up, at least it kept my interest because of the likeable characters.
She acted like it was the end of the fucking world if she couldn't have children.
Fucking adopt.And then, unlike the last book, I didn't even have any couple to cheer for in the end.
Yeah, yeah, I know this isn't a romance book, but it's pretty obvious that (view spoiler)[Richard and Katie are going to end up together (which I know for a fact because I skimmed to the end).
As I was reading this, my first MHC novel, I was thinking to myself, "this sounds like a Lifetime movie." Imagine my chagrin when I found out it WAS made into a Lifetime movie.We get to see the story from many points of view, including the killer's, so there is never any mystery as to whodunit.
I guess that's the magic of the time before cell phones.This won't stop me from attempting a more recent MHC novel but I won't go into it with very high hopes.
Oh my God!
These are the best words to describe this book.
The story, the characters, the twists and turns that these book presents are amazing.
It was incredibly difficult to put it down once I started reading it.
The most impressive thing about this book is the fact that it starts right away with action, and it got me thinking "how in the world is this author gonna 'extend' the story for another 300 pages?" But she did it.
I totally recommend it to anyone who likes crime books.
And I most certainly will read more books from this author.
Adorei! MHC continua a surpreender-me pela positiva. É das melhores escolhas para mim, quando quero ler um policial mais "soft".Este livro, recordou-me o quanto eu gosto dos livros de Robin Cook. Aconselho é mesmo muito bom!!!
Continuing my December custom of cleaning off my shelves of those books that have been languishing for years, I turned to a random Mary Higgins Clark novel that I inherited from my mother who, judging from the sheer volume of them, must have loved.
I remember reading a couple many years ago and considered them OK but nothing to write home about.This one was only the third suspense novel published by the prolific Ms. Clark, first published in 1980.
I actually enjoyed this one more than I expected, even though there were a lot of extraneous scenes with characters that didn’t seem to directly relate to the plot.
http://verovsky-meninadospoliciais.bl...
The medical component of the story revolves around a fertility doctor who is doing some unethical, and secret, procedures on his patients.
Still, if you are willing to accept that part of it, the story is a lot of fun.The plot is a long cat-and-mouse chase.
She also happens to be a patient of the main nefarious doctor and is in direct danger from him throughout the book.
There are a handful of murders in the book, starting with the kick-off scene and continuing through the plot as the doctor is forced to go further to guard his secrets.
This was an oldie, but goodie! This book grabbed my attention from the very first and never let up. I'm definitely up for reading other works by Mary Higgins Clark that I may have missed when I was younger.
I think this was my first MHC read (may have read one or two decades ago), and I was quite disappointed.
As others have said in their reviews, if only all the players had gotten together and shared what they knew with each other, the case would have been solved in five minutes.More importantly, I couldn't tell who the protagonist was.
Richard Carroll was by default the protagonist because he at least tried to solve the question of who killed Vangie Lewis, but he was only the medical examiner.
******WARNING: POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERS*******I liked the book. However I didn't like the fact that you already knew the killer and it was just him going around doing what he pleased. I prefer the authors books where she keeps you guessing till the last minute. However don't get me wrong. I love how the author told us who the killer was first and made a story around him as to how everyone found out. I would also have liked to know more at the end with Richard and Katie
Good, classic MHC! I had to keep reading to find out what was going to happen next!
Uno dei migliori Clark letti finora.
Sebbene il finale sia un po'scontato, la suspense è garantita e anche il titolo simbolico (la culla vuota è infatti l'utero della donna sterile) sembra richiamare l'interesse generale della storia, perfettamente costruita.
Uniche due pecche:1) Un po'come in tutti i romanzi della Clark scarsa descrizione dei luoghi e delle ambientazioni: da un parte è un bene, dall'altra serve comunque ad arricchire un po'il romanzo aiutando il lettore a figurarsi il contesto della storia.2) Beh...
Forse una classica "caccia" all'uomo sarebbe stata preferibile, anche se i colpi di scena in tutto il resto non mancano.
I don't like it when the murderer keeps getting away with stuff because of the stupidity of other people. And in this book, everyone behaved like a brainless dodo. They didn't tell, they lied, they didn't think it important, they hid stuff, they left it for later... If it happened once or twice, fine. That does happen. But it was everyone, all the time, from investigators to witnesses. And then suddenly, everybody decided to tell the truth about everything, at once. I mean, seriously?
Very suspenseful, I read it in one sitting. Excellently crafted so you know the mind of the killer as much as the victims and bystanders.
The cover of this book says "The Terrifying National Bestseller.." Don' believe every thing you read.
This was the first Mary Higgins Clark novel I have read and frankly it most likely will be my last.
The reason being, I absolutely hate it when authors are repetitive and she repeats thoughts, fears, ect.
The book could have been much shorter, much cleaner had she not written repeatedly of Katie Deaio's fear of hospitals or Dr. Highly's plan to kill her in a hospital.
Clark's portrayal of blooming love between Katie and Richard Carroll was rather sophmoric and absolutely not needed for the story.
Quoto il Killer Mantovano.. la Clark non sarà un'autrice di capolavori, ma scrive per una lettura piacevole e scorrevole, nonchè intrigante!Un buon giallo, da ombrellone, da borsetta o da relax.
Acabei este livro fantástico. Como é possível que alguém imagine estas histórias. A autora consegue prender-nos do inicio ao fim, sempre com a mesma vontade ávida de saber mais e mais. Adorei. Reforça ainda mais a ideia que tenho da autora.
Medical mystery and, still, interesting. Well narrated. Recommended.
Un jam médical
Tras todo las investigaciones se descubre que el ginecólogo de la muerta esta haciendo experimentos muy extraños retira los fetos de quienes quieren abortar y los implantan en mujeres que no han podido concebir, este es l segunda vez que logra hacerlo con éxito y debe eliminar a la sea porque ella a decidido irse y consultar a su ginecólogo de confianza, así también debe eliminar su secretaria por ser la última que vio a la mujer y a la abogada por ver lo que no debió desde l ventana más hay un médico qué trabaja con la abogada descubre todo y logra salvarla cuando ella huye y es encerrado en el sótano del hospital de sangrando se...
On va suivre une jeune adjointe au procureur qui depuis la mort de son mari, s'est jetée à corps perdu dans le travail.
Là-bas, elle est témoin d'une scène macabre : un homme mettant un cadavre de femme dans le coffre d'une voiture.
Coïncidence ou non, le lendemain une femme est retrouvée morte chez elle.
Mais quand Katie DeMaio la voit, elle reconnaît tout de suite la femme qu'elle a vue dans le coffre de la voiture le soir précédent.L'intrigue du roman n'est pas façonnée de la même façon que d'habitude dans les polars.
On sait tout de suite dès les premières pages qui est le tueur.
Actual rating is 3.5 stars.This is your basic medical suspense thriller novel.
Katie was in the hospital when she saw this dead woman being loaded into a trunk of a car.
There is something fishy going on at the hospital.I am sucker for a medical thriller and this one did not disappoint.
The thing with a medical thriller is the belief of the pseudo science and I bought into it here.
It didn't take away my enjoyment but I did question it.This is a simple medical thriller book that is a prime example of a beach read.
Mary Higgins Clark is quite possible my favorite author.
Her mysteries are always edge-of-your-seat, can't-stop-reading books that you can't wait to find out the who, what, and why.That said, this book isn't one of her best.
We know who the killer is right off the bat, but we don't know exactly what he's doing, so it's the what and the why that we're chasing after in this book.
I didn't feel quite as connected to the characters in this book as in some of her others.
Good read, but MHC has done better.
I pushed through, and I am not impressed.The only real suspense in this book is the why did he do it?
The killer is plainly identified before the quarter mark, and we always know with this author that the female lead is going to get in trouble, nearly die, and pull through thanks to a much stronger male character.Blah.
I gave this 2 stars because the suspense of why, and how good the villain actually is.
I thought he was solid, and he takes almost no chances, but as all bad guys do, he misses some things, and they are his downfall.I hope the next book in Clark's arsenal is better than this one.
A classic Mary Higgins Clark mystery begins with an accident. Half asleep, a woman looks out her hospital window to see a man putting something in a trunk. When the light hits the parcel, she is shocked to see a dead woman's face. Could she really trust her eyes? Could it be just her imagination?Working with the prosecutor's office, she finds herself trying to solve the murder of a pregnant wife. But as time moves on, the death toll keeps increasing. Can they solve the case before even more people die.
This must have been a short book because I listened to the audio book in less than a day. This was a book group selection and I've never read anything by Mary Higgins Clark. I guess I was expecting a little more character detail.The story itself was really good and fast moving. The topic was interesting and engaging. The book as a whole kind of fell flat for me. I enjoyed it but it wasn't my favorite.
Dr. Highley killed one of his patients, Vangie Lewis. His receptionist knows too much so he kills her too. Vangie's previous doctor smells a rat and contacts the police. Dr. Highley kills him as well. Prosecutor Katie DeMaio may have seen something incriminating, and Dr. Highley plans too kill her during her upcoming surgery.Several people know things that will help the police solve the murders, but they keep quiet; each for their own reasons. The suspense could kill you.
this book was out of my comfort zone and let me tell you some parts had me a little lost and confused with where it was going but after half way through it made sense. this book had so many twists that I found myself dreaming and plotting different ways it would end and I never seen the true end until I read it
Suspenseful, but lots of unlike coincidences required to make the plot work out. Interesting because the reader knows who the killer is almost right away, and then what maneuvers (and additional murders he commits) he makes to keep the police/prosecutors from identifying him. Light, pretty entertaining, but quickly forgettable thriller.
