https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9166559-these-things-hidden
Aside from the stereotyping factor, there were some major inconsistencies in the book that had me in brow furrowing mode repeatedly.(view spoiler)[ So this Allison girl lives in Linden Falls, Iowa - not New York, mind - and goes to jail for manslaughter for abandoning and drowning her newborn baby, fruit of a secret and illicit relationship with a college guy (Mr. X, he's so flat).
If something horrible like what happened in the book happened here, not only would it go on national news but everybody in town would know who the girl is, the family, where they live.
The story falls into place easily while offering shocking things, long hidden, yet never expected.The book is written in alternating viewpoints between four different women all linked in some way to a little boy named Joshua.
Each woman wants to ensure Joshua is safe and taken care if, even if they have different ideas and motives driving them.The book begins with Allison being released from prison.
Every bit of Allison's past is revealed at the perfect moment.
Bad choices ruin lives.
These Things Hidden is a moving, beautifully written, absolutely compelling novel you won't want to miss.
This book has been collecting dust on my shelf for far too long. Like a dental appointment, I kept putting it off, not sure why. Now I am sorry I waited so long for such a great read. Upon release from prison for a devastating crime, Allison attempts to reunite with her family and get her life back on track. This book unfolds from several points of view. Each character telling their own intriguing story, until the inevitable collision in the end. Love that!! Really enjoyed this book. Will definitely read more from this author!
Before Allison was sent to prison, she and her sister, Brynn were very close, but that all ended the night Allison was sent away as Brynn wanted nothing more to do with her sister.
If dealing with what happened that night wasn't enough, Brynn also had to deal with kids staring and whispering behind her back.
Brynn has tried to forget about what happened to her sister five years ago, but now that her sister was out of prison, she knew all too well that it was about to haunt her all over again.
A definite must read, in my opinion.
"Her heart is pounding, fearful of what they're going to find when they reach the top." *Audiobook*These Things Hidden by Heather Gudenkauf, narrated by Angela Goethals.Allison - Perfect, seventeen year old Allison Glynn. Smart. Straight A student. Competitive athlete. Pretty. Everything her parents want her to be. Her life is all mapped out ahead of her. Finish highschool then on to an Ivy league college, study to be a lawyer, work at a top law firm. For all her accomplishments what Allison do
*Audiobook*These Things Hidden by Heather Gudenkauf, narrated by Angela Goethals.Allison - Perfect, seventeen year old Allison Glynn.
As she walks the halls of her highschool she can't miss the whispers, the taunts, the cruelty that's relentlessly dolled out on her by the other students.
For five years Brynn and Allison have been trying to leave the mistakes from the past behind them.
But Brynn wants nothing to do with Allison.
Author Heather Gudenkauf & narrator Angela Goethals made me feel as if I was there, in living color, in the same space, breathing the same air.
She’s not the scholar her sister was, but she seeks a career working with companion animals.Claire Kelby runs a bookshop.
Attending kindergarten is a hard task for him, made even more difficult when the bookstore is robbed and his adoptive mother injured.Charm Tullia, just twenty years old, lives with her stepfather Gus, a retired fireman in the final stages of lung cancer.
Charm cares deeply for Gus while juggling a nurses’ training course at the local college and working part-time for Claire at the bookshop.
Gus is Charm’s family and she nurtures him as best she can.Ms. Gudenkauf’s story switches viewpoints between all four women.
At least I didn't pay money for it.This is a book about secrets and babies and mommy-love and bad parents and crazy.Perfect college-bound athlete Allison gets knocked up by a summer fling, manages to keep this secret from her parents, because they are caricatures of Bad and Superficial Parenting, and when she gives birth, with her flaky sister Brynn present, she ends up throwing her newborn baby into an ice-cold river to drown.
I never made it past the first third of the book, but skimming other reviews, I can see that I was right.I can deal with a story about babies and mommy-love and teen secrets and so on, if it's actually suspenseful or well-written or has some twist that isn't branded Jodi Picoult or Oprah.
Didn't read reviews of it before I started, just plunged in.It reminded me of 'Reconstructing Amelia' and 'Girl on the train' (both I loved) in the fact that the suspense and characters are well done and the story is told by multiple narrators.
You can feel the web closing in on everyone as the story goes on, even if some of the players don't quite know why.Sometimes the dialogue was a bit stiff but the I never lost interest or wanted to throw the book at the wall.
Another great book by Heather Gudenkauf. She's quickly becoming one of my top authors. These Things Hidden felt very real, builds suspense and includes sympathetic characters. A page-turner for sure! 4.5 stars!
This won't be a long review.
I suffered to the halfway point with this book, bored to tears wondering what the point of it all was.Not all books are thrilling page turners but both the plot and the characters fell flat in this for me in this one completely.
It's put me off her other books although I know she has her fans and many loved this too.It failed to capture raw emotion that should have been there in this story and in a nutshell I found it tedious and gave up halfway through.Next....
Moving on.You can check out my reviews at:https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat...
All i can say is i absolutely recommend this book to all my lady friends you wont be disappointed this made me have mixed emotions Characters were dealing with real situations we all deal with every day will be reading more of this Author
(Also feels that being a foster parent is just holding a child until the biological parent is responsible enough based on ONE experience.)The good daughter whose flighty Mom is just terrible (she has had more than one boyfriend!) and whose 50-year old step-Dad is described as if he’s 100.(view spoiler)[The final baby passes to THREE different women - Allison gives birth, Brynn rescues the baby, Christopher dumps the baby on his sister, Charm and Charm dumps the baby on Claire.

A tragic mystery that slowly reveals it self like peeling an onion.
In the beginning I thought I had a handle on what was going on in the lives of the three young girls at the center of the story.
Wrong...
Needless to say, there are twists and turns that make you keep changing your feelings toward each character.
Choices and fate seem to run along in the same lane for two sisters, an innocent bystander and a very lonley couple.
The characters were believable and the narration was very good.
This is not a feel good book and includes some very graphic situations.
A contemporary family drama narrated by four different women-Allison, her sister Brynn, nursing student Charm, and bookseller Claire. At first, I was thinking "Yikes, quite a number of characters for a short book." But quite quickly the connection between the four women becomes clear. I won't say too much about the plot because it was quite easy to figure out, it is perhaps the ending that is most surprising(tragic too).

Not only for the nature of the crime, but for how early in the story the revelation came.
It's a story of second chances, responsibility, and how sometimes things go horribly, horribly wrong just when we think that everything is going perfectly, but that life goes on anyway.
This book may not be for everyone, but for me, it was just what I didn't know I needed to pull me out of a summer long reading slump.
This book reminded me why I love reading, and why sometimes the best things show up when we least expect them.
I read The Weight of Silence quite awhile ago but I still think about it and talk about it.
I read different genres and enjoy them all, but I love fiction that could easily be fact.
Allison's character was one of the biggest reasons why I enjoyed this book so much.
Throughout the book I wanted to hate her, but something told me to be patient.
I was on my toes throughout and that is another reason why this book will be memorable for me.
Again I will be thinking and talking about this story.
In those pages I felt like I got to know Allison well enough that I couldn't imagine she had truly done something horrible.
When I found out what her crime had been I just had to know WHY?!This book alternates characters.
We get to know her sister Brynn who is having a hard time dealing with her past, and her life in general.
But it was just past the middle that I realized that it was an amazing story.
I couldn't put the book down.
The book is 400 pages, but I flew through it like it was 200.
This is a must read. I LOVED this book! I couldn't put it down and I was just speechless upon completion. I was surprised at so many points while reading These Things Hidden and that doesn't happen often for me when reading a book. The author did an incredible job of slowly revealing secrets, piece by piece, and from various points of view. My heart broke for many of the characters. I truly felt for them all, although my feelings changed toward the end and I had the deepest compassion for one of the characters. Just couldn't believe it...
Some of the things Allison feared her mom would do if she found out about the birth of the baby didn't seem to line up with the woman I believed the author had painted.
The scene with Allison and Brynn delivering that baby would have been moving in a different and personal kind of way.
The author spent a lot of time telling us about Allison and what she was like before the pregnancy, but we didn't really know her, so it was hard to connect with who she was now.
I really enjoyed this book. I love Heather Gudenkauf. She has a wonderful, almost lyrical way with words. These Things Hidden had everything I adore in a book: 1)in depth character development2)plot twists and turns3)secrets and liesI zoomed through this in a day and a half! I could not put this book down. 4.5 stars!
This is a book that is all about secrets, choices, second chances, abandonment, and ultimately of hope.The story is told from the POV of multiple characters whose lives are connected in ways that only become readily apparent as the story unravels in unexpected ways.
Their story unravels in a suspenseful and compelling manner that leaves the reader unable to put the book down, while simultaneously exploring important contemporary social issues.
She is consistently able to provide the reader with a suspenseful and gripping read while tackling the important social issues of the day.
Allison and Brynn Glenn were by far, some of the worst characters I've ever had the displeasure of reading about.
Throughout the course of the book, Allison never really showed any concern for anyone other than herself.
Of course this was before I learnt that she didn't realise that she was pregnant till her seventh month.
How does a woman who's pregnant with twins (and she's supposed to be incredibly smart, this one) not realise she's pregnant.
More importantly, how do the people around her not realise it?
None of this redeemed the book though, because ugh, Allison Glenn.
4.5 stars. Despite a really disturbing event, the author handled it very well. I felt a mix of emotions throughout. Even with a character who had gone to prison for something awful, I felt both horror and hope, which is amazing that the author was able to convey that. The pace of the book moved very quickly with very short chapters. I love finding authors that are new to me who I really enjoy. Highly recommend.
Really enjoyed this book. This author is proving to be one of my new favorites.
I felt like it didn't really add to the story, and any of the important information involving her could easily have been told in the other three perspectives.
Perhaps I felt this way because I didn't care for the narrator who read her part.
I did love the other two narrators though, and I would still recommend this book on audio.I am glad I didn't read any reviews before starting the book because I feel like a lot of people are inadvertently giving things away.
Nothing specific, just stuff that I know would get my wheels turning if I had seen it and it would be in the back of my mind throughout the story.
Ahhh SO SO good! Full review later but awesome audiobook
These Things Hidden was my second Heather Gudenkauf book.
And, just like the first book I read and loved, The Weight of Silence, this was also a quick fantastic read!This is a beautifully human story about love.
All kinds of love, and the different ways it takes shape in different people.
It's also about the beauty and tragedy of dealing with one's family.
And, most of all, hope and understanding of other's is a theme through this book as well.If you like family dramas, mystery and suspense...this is one to give a read.
It's beautifully written and a fast read that keeps you glued to the pages.
Great book! This is my first Heather Gudenkauf novel, but will not be my last. Heather writes beautifully, the story is told with words that flow down a lazy river until they reach the rapids. I especially love the way the story unfolds through the eyes of four women. I read this book in one day, I couldn't put it down.
