https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34964864-after-anna
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...I’ve read quite a few of Lisa Scottoline’s novels over the years and have always enjoyed them. However, I have to say that I enjoy her stand-alone novels the most. I especially enjoyed her last novel  “One Perfect Lie”.  And after reading the description for this new domestic thriller, I was really excited to get reading.Nobody cuts deeper than family...Maggie and Noah are getting a second chance at a happily ever after. And
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...I’ve read quite a few of Lisa Scottoline’s novels over the years and have always enjoyed them.
I especially enjoyed her last novel 
Finally, her family is complete.Her stepson and husband are just as happy as Maggie to have Anna come live with them, and at first everything is great.
However, it’s not long before there’s a strain in the family, especially between Anna and Noah.
There were a couple of little things that threw me but overall, I really enjoyed this novel.
Parts of this mystery/thriller are very well done.
That was seventeen years ago, when Anna was just six months old.
After Anna’s father dies in a plane crash, she seeks out Maggie, who is thrilled to take Anna from the boarding school she hates and have her move in with Maggie, her husband of two years, Noah, and her ten-year-old stepson.The parts where Noah is on trial and we don’t yet know what his sentence will be or what his involvement with Anna's death might be were stressfuly taut.
Thanks to NetGalley and St Martin’s Press for the opportunity to review this novel.
Four spectacular ⭐⭐⭐⭐ (and a half)Oh my gosh I loved this book!! Noah and Maggie have a quaint marriage, raising Noah’s son Caleb. Sadly, Maggie has a gaping hole in her heart where her own daughter Anna once was. Sometime ago, Maggie’s ex-husband took Anna as an infant and she hasn’t seen or heard from her dear daughter since...until now. From out of the blue, Maggie receives a phone call from Anna and she’s on cloud nine! Before long the two are meeting for a reunion lunch. And within no time
Sadly, Maggie has a gaping hole in her heart where her own daughter Anna once was.
Sometime ago, Maggie’s ex-husband took Anna as an infant and she hasn’t seen or heard from her dear daughter since...until now.
From out of the blue, Maggie receives a phone call from Anna and she’s on cloud nine!
But it quickly appears that dear Anna may have her own reasons for wanting to reach out to her mother.
I’ve always been a huge fan of Lisa Scottoline, having read nearly every book she’s released.
And if you’ve never read one of her books, don’t put it off!
Although she has not seen Anna for seventeen years, Maggie goes on to structure happiness with her new husband, Noah, and his young son, Caleb.
Anna, who attends a private girls' academy in Maine, has made overtures that she wishes to live with Maggie now and become part of her family.
Noah accommodates the new addition to the family to keep peace.
Love sometimes tends to blur the edges into something almost unrecognizable.Lisa Scottoline creates a hornets' nest of activity in After Anna.
Very strange.Please note that After Anna is still quite the read.
2.5 starsI had heard many good things about Lisa Scottoline’s books and so when I was offered an ARC of her latest thriller  After Anna , I went into it expecting an intense read. The plot (from the summary) sounded promising and the first 2-3 chapters actually did draw me in, made me interested in the story and wanting to find out what was really going on with Anna’s murder and what Noah’s role was in it. Unfortunately, the story quickly started falling apart for me (I was barely at the 8% mark
Unfortunately, the story quickly started falling apart for me (I was barely at the 8% mark on my Kindle) and kept going downhill the more I read – by the time I got to the end of the book, the story had become such a tangled mess that I felt like kicking myself for not having DNF’ed this earlier on (especially when I already have a long list of books I still need to get to).There were so many issues I had with this book, I honestly don’t know where to begin with relaying my thoughts on this one.
The only reason this book did not get a full five stars is I felt as though the ending was a bit rushed and tied up a little too neatly....Maggie and Noah have the perfect life....
The only thing missing from Maggie’s life is her estranged 17-year-old daughter Anna...
she didn’t really know her daughter and she knew her husband, I just couldn’t see a good answer for her in the situation....Throughout this book I kept trying to figure out what the twist was....
Riveting courtroom drama, taut suspense, and emotional family drama-When Maggie’s estranged seventeen- year old daughter, Anna, calls out of the blue, hoping to reconnect, Maggie is over the moon.
Maggie, of course, immediately invites Anna to move in with her and her new husband, Noah, and his son.
But, things go awry almost immediately when Anna and Noah clash, exposing large cracks in the veneer of Maggies's perfect family.
But, as tense as things have become between Maggie and Noah, as strained as their marriage has become, Maggie never could have imagined a day when her husband would stand trial for the murder of her only child.
However the good news that Anna is reaching out is overshadowed by hearing Anna’s father and his current wife along with their children had died leaving Maggie to suggest Anna come to live with them.The events after Anna had arrived in Noah and Maggie’s life had obviously spiraled out of control knowing from the very start that Noah was on trial.
Absolutely loving legal thrillers this one was right up my alley combining the legal side with the domestic drama and I found myself flying through the pages.The writing was good and the story was intriguing however when finished my rating dropped a tad because there were still unanswered questions and I wasn’t quite convinced with the conclusion.
3.5 Stars!AFTER ANNA by LISA SCOTTOLINE was a fast-paced, interesting, and for the most part an enjoyable read for me but some of the subject matter in regards to how fast things progressed with the characters and their situations just happened a little too quickly for me.LISA SCOTTOLINE delivers a well-paced and gripping read here which is told from alternating points of view, Before Anna from Maggie’s perspective and After Anna by Noah through trial excerpts.
I really enjoyed reading the trial chapters and found them both intense and gripping.This book really challenged me and honestly nothing really rang true to me and I was constantly trying to figure out what the heck was going on.
The story, although it did have a few hiccups at the end, flowed well and kept this reader fully engaged until the last page was read.Maggie and Noah have recently married.
Maggie, his wife, formerly suffered from postpartum psychosis after the birth of her daughter, Anna, with her first husband.
However, Anna is searching for her birth mother and when Maggie gets word of her search and connects with her, she travels to the boarding school.
As the story continues things get ever worse for Noah and it seems to be up to Maggie to discover the truth.
I enjoyed this book.
The book opens with Dr. Noah Alderman on trial for the murder of his stepdaughter, Anna Desroches.
In the before, Noah has remarried Maggie, after the death of his first wife.
Noah and Maggie's marriage falls apart even before Anna is murdered.The after is what happens after Anna's murder, including the trial and how Maggie finds the killer.Pros: I liked the story and the characters.
My wife and I both enjoy Scottoline's books.Some quotes: Maggie, getting Anna's call: "Maggie's throat thickened, and her nose started to bubble, which she hated.
Norma and I were lost in the dense lush coulee with Kaceey reading After Anna and even though we ended up in the same coulee we were on different sides of the coulee on how much we enjoyed this one.
Norma at times struggling to escape the circle and Kaceey and I just going with the flow until that great twist tossed out of the circle.
We all loved that great twist that only Norma saw coming and we thought we figured out at least what direction this story was going only to be taken totally out of the coulee and into a different direction wondering if we were reading the same book.
But I found that it really unraveled about two thirds of the way in.The book starts with two alternating points of view and two separate timelines.
One timeline moves backwards, and starts with the conclusion of Noah's trial who is found guilty of murdering his stepdaughter Anna.
The second timeline starts earlier, moving forward, and is told from Noah's wife Maggie's perspective.
Two thirds in, the timeline switches and Noah is in jail and Maggie gets a clue that Noah may not be guilty after all.
After Anna  is another great mystery/thriller novel that I've read this year. I was not exactly a fan of this genre but when I have read this book, it is one of the reasons why I included mystery and thriller to my list. What I like about it is that it will make readers make wild guesses about what's really happening. From beginning till the end, readers will never be disappointed because of a lot of unexpected twists were put in the story, especially in the ending. Thanks to the publisher beca
is another great mystery/thriller novel that I've read this year.
I was not exactly a fan of this genre but when I have read this book, it is one of the reasons why I included mystery and thriller to my list.
What I like about it is that it will make readers make wild guesses about what's really happening.
From beginning till the end, readers will never be disappointed because of a lot of unexpected twists were put in the story, especially in the ending.
Thanks to the publisher because I was given the chance to read this amazing book by 
After AnnaLisa ScottolineMY RATING ⭐⭐⭐⭐▫PUBLISHER St. Martin’s PressPUBLISHED April 10, 2018A consuming and cleverly structured thriller, blending the story of before and after Anna. SUMMARYMaggie lost custody of her baby, Anna, when she was only six months old. The two have not seen each other since, and now Anna is 17. Maggie had no choice but to move on, She’s found love again and is now happily married to Noah Alderman, a widower. Maggie adores Caleb, Noah’s son, and they have quite the perf
After AnnaLisa ScottolineMY RATING 	⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️▫️PUBLISHER	St. Martin’s PressPUBLISHED	April 10, 2018A consuming and cleverly structured thriller, blending the story of before and after Anna.
Maggie had no choice but to move on, She’s found love again and is now happily married to Noah Alderman, a widower.
But everything changes when Maggie gets a call from Anna, who is now a high school student, parked in an elite boarding school in Maine.
But when Anna moves in with Maggie, Noah and Caleb chaos ensues.
The focus of each chapter alternates between Noah and Maggie.
Lisa Scottoline fans can’t help but love After Anna.
Everyone accepted Anna into the family even though Anna balked at their rules.AFTER ANNA takes us back and forth in time as we follow the trial that has Dr. Alderman fighting for his freedom, and we are taken back to the days BEFORE Anna's return and DURING Anna’s return home to her mother after seventeen years.Anna had her mother believing everything she told her whether it was true or not, and Maggie was not believing anything her husband said about Anna.I didn’t like Anna the moment I met her.
I feel like I must have read a different book than a majority of the previous reviewers for I spent a bulk of my time thinking how poorly this book was written.
Maggie gets a phone call early in the week that her estranged daughter (who thinks Maggie physically abused her as an infant) wants to meet her.
After dinner (on a Friday night) Maggie meets with Anna's therapist who completely agrees that Anna should move in with Maggie and her family immediately.
You can read the summary to know how it all goes downhill.
Give me a novel by Lisa Scottoline any day of the week!
I was not disappointed by this latest release.Maggie and Noah are happily married.
Noah is a successful doctor with a 10-year old boy, Caleb.
Maggie has a seventeen-year old daughter, Anna.
The narrative moves back and forth in time from Noah and Maggie.
There are plenty of twists and turns in the end in rapid fire succession in a race to answer all those questions floating in my mind.After Anna is a satisfying page turner that sparks empathy, sadness, anger, and finally happiness.
The After Anna chapters are in a court room setting which I thoroughly enjoyed.
Noah and Maggie are happily married.
Maggie loves Noah’s son Caleb.
Unfortunately, Maggie lost custody to her daughter, Anna, when she was just a baby and has not seen her since.
Maggie then decides Anna needs to come live with her family.Maggie is so happy she finally has her daughter back in her life.
Everything is perfect until Anna claims Noah has tried to molest her.
I loved the court room drama.
I liked the twist because I didn’t see it coming.
I just sat there like wait, what?
It’s no secret I love most books written by Lisa Scottoline and I was thrilled to get this book through the publisher and Goodreads.
This is my 10th book by Ms Scottoline and she never disappoints.
This grabbed me from page 1 with a strong start.
And holy cow, what a FABULOUS book!!!!
If you have not read any of her books ...
START WITH THIS ONE!!!!!
It has you guessing till the end and I’m still thinking about it which makes for a GREAT book!!
This might be my FAVORITE BOOK OF 2018 to date!!!
I am a fan of Ms. Scottoline’s having enjoyed “One Perfect Lie” and “Every Fifteen Minutes” is still one of my all time favorite thrillers.As you all know from the blurb “Noah Alderman, a doctor and a widower, has remarried a wonderful woman, Maggie, and for the first time in a long time he and his son are happy.
After he remarries Maggie and finds a great home life I could believe that their marriage was probably on a happy track, but no one I know is that perfect of a person as Noah is shown to be.
I kept picking it back up just to know what had happened!We meet Noah and Maggie.
Anna and Maggie have to get to know each other but how does a Mother balance being a Mom after 17 years of her child missing and then also making them feel the most welcome they possibly can?The other focus of this story is Noah and Anna's relationship.
Are there secrets about Noah we don't know about that make Anna feel uncomfortable?
Well, this book does a good job tricking you with that which made the twist even better.I would definitely recommend this book to those who love mystery/suspense novels.
When a tragedy happens and Noah is blamed, Maggie immediately chooses sides however she soon begins to question if she made the right choice and if Anna is really the person she was pretending to be.
“After Anna” is the newest, soon-to-be-released novel by Lisa Scottoline.
Scottoline’s intense, legal dramas are always packed with suspense, intrigue and powerhouse plots and this novel is no exception.
The characters are well-defined and easy to form relationships with  (especially young Caleb who is simply adorable)  and I was choosing sides right from the beginning, trying to collect evidence against one party or another  (I can be honest, my view changed as I read on) .
Another suspense- filled thriller, by Lisa Scottoline, that I thoroughly enjoyed.The story begins as an engaging family drama, leading to the challenges of parenting a teenager, followed by twists involving lies and manipulation. I was disappointed with the epilogue as I found it to be implausible.However, don't let this deter you from picking up or listening to this novel as it is certainly worth the read.
Wowsa!! What a twisted intense thriller! Giving this a whopping 4.5 ☆ My first experience with this author and won’t be my last! It’s amazing - recommend!
Once I really got into the book a bit, I did find the story a bit more entertaining and was very curious how things would work out.I feel like Scottoline took a bit of a risk with how this story is laid out and I am not sure that it paid off at least for me.
Noah's point of view starts at the end his trial for the murder of Anna and works its way backwards through time.
I think that some of the best parts of the book were the times that we would see an event from both Noah and Maggie's point of view.
A very enjoyable read. Gripping and suspenseful.
Now that Maggie has found some semblance of happiness with her doctor-husband Noah and stepson Caleb, Anna appears out of nowhere, wanting, it appears, to make up for lost time.
No, things soon begin happening that mess with Maggie's already messed-up head; her obsession with keeping her long-lost daughter satisfied (and literally close to her broken mommy heart) renders her oblivious to anyone else's concerns.
Devastated, Maggie kicks Noah to the curb and continues to care for Caleb, with only her long-time friend Kathy and Anna to lean on.A major focus is on Noah's subsequent trial and the outcome thereof; chapters switch from Maggie and Noah's life before and after Anna arrived on the scene, sprinkling clues as to what really happened.
This thriller is told with two timelines.
The one that takes place 'after Anna' is told backwards: Dr Noah Alderman is on trial for the murder of his stepdaughter, Anna, and is just about to learn the jury's verdict.
But sharing centerstage with that is the story of 'before Anna' and what led up to her murder.
At about the 75% mark, the two storylines converge, Noah hears the verdict and then the story completely explodes!
I was constantly trying to guess the killer's identity but never in my wildest imagination would I have come up with the twists and turns this story takes.
I was sucked into this book from the minute I started reading it.
After Anna follows a tight knits family as drama unfolds surrounding the return of a daughter that has been taken away for 17 years.
Now married with a small family of her own, Maggie finds that her daughters father has died and Anna now wants to come live with her biological mother.
This seems like a great thing to Maggie and her husband Noah as it is a piece of the family that has been missing.
Recommended Read
