https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76932.The_Clue_in_the_Embers
Abby says: I love the non-stop adventure. My favourite part was how the bad guys left embers. I'm started to get tired of Chet complaining that he doesn't want to be involved in the mysteries with the Hardy Boys.
Dixon's The Clue in the Embers by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - April 7, 2012 In the past yr, my friend, the poet & essayist Alan Davies, conducted an email interview w/ me in wch he wrote: "I would be interested in knowing which books first struck you / as a boy / which authors – and the reading of what things might have pointed (pushed?) you in the direction of writing and the other arts." This unleashed a flood of memories about childhood reading wch led to my thinking of The Hardy Boys.
The Hardy Boys bks, a series of mysteries starring teenage brothers Frank & Joe & a supporting cast of friends, were probably staple reading for most white boys like myself from the time of their inception in 1927 'til when?
This is an amazing book for readers that love adventure.
A story of two boys in an attempt to solve a mystery with many challenges ahead of them.
Joe and frank ore on a mission to help tony solve the mystery of these two medallions.
Joe and Frank are always desperate to solve the mystery and will not stop until it is.
Readers should know that frank and Joe are in a time around 1995 and talk like someone from that time.
the type of reader that would like this book is one that loves adventure and mystery, recommend
This is a decent classic Hardy adventure that any fan of the original series will enjoy. Being an adventure that goes towards South America, there is some period-era stereo-typical language that today might seem in bad taste and a particularly ludicrous scene even for a Hardy tale where the boys' taxi gets caught in a lava flow, but if you can get past those shortcomings this is an interesting and unique tale that combines ethnic practices, history and fast-paced intriguing action. A good solid Hardy story!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This cover is straight up bizarre. The book was a little weird too but in a good way, it was still pretty fun.
In which Latinos can't speak Spanish ("Juan's El Taxi"), "Indians" can't speak at all ("Hokay!"), and if you feature a shrunken head on the cover your book better make use of a goddamn shrunken head!

This book is pretty creepy if you ask me. What happens is a relative of Tony dies and leaves him his weird shop plus shrunken heads. Also the shop is important when it comes to solving a crime. Be careful no matter what and first impressions can fool a person (you'll have to read it to know what I mean).
.Frank and Joe Hardy and their chums never fail to provide an entertaining and mysterious escapade. These teenagers are very intelligent, resourceful, and mature for their ages.My grandsons and I enjoyed sharing them together and would recommend them to others. We enjoyed this one very much.Each book is a clean read and can stand on its own.
The Hardy Boys take on an international case in this book. When their friend Tony inherits some odd curios it attracts the attention of thieves. In order to solve the case the boys have to travel to Guatemala.
I read these books (and Nancy Drew) too many years ago to state, but while clearing out my daughters bedroom I am re-reading some books before recycling.Good fun romp but I'm not sure they would suit a modern teen.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
It was exciting. They go to Guatemala and any story that involves volcanoes is always exciting. This is a good one for young people but I don't think it holds up over time.
This one was OK enough until they travel down to Guatemala and start interacting with the natives. Boy, did that get my blood to boiling.
Yet another fun adventure.
this was truly fascinating book. I really love the Hardy Boys series.
I had fun reading this to Bowman and Tenney. They LOVE The Hardy boys, and because They Hardy boys had apple pie so did Bowmand and Tenney and I :)
One of the better Hardy Boys tales, though as usual the coincidences get a little more unlikely as the story progresses.
this book is a good mystery book but it is not the best. i like the action to it and the mystery behind it it's not some kind of mystery that a first grader could figure out.
SM
read when I was 10 through 13
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1972.
Dixon, Franklin W.
Hardy boys mystery in Guatemala
