https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1524360.Cocori
His curiousity made him to get into the ship and in there, he met a young girl with blond hair and blue eyes, something that Cocorí never thought that was possible to exist and in his innocence, he fell in love for the girl.The girl gave him a rose, and in exchange, he promised to get a Tití monkey.
Cocorí no entendía porqué la flor murió tan pronto.El joven Cocorí emprende un viaje filosófico con la companía del pícaro mono Tití y Doña Modorra, una anciana y sabia tortuga.
In addition, the rose she gave him has faded away.Cocorí, accompanied by the monkey, Tití, and a motherly turtle named Doña Modorra, sets out on a quest to discover why the beautiful perfumed rose had such a brief life while other creatures were blessed to live for centuries (e.g., Doña Modorra, crocodiles).
(view spoiler)[The fantasy tale resembles the film The Wizard of Oz in that, while both Dorothy Gale and Cocorí travel far away, the answer to their heart’s desire lay right at home.
(hide spoiler)]Cocorí proves a delightful adventure, available in English for those who wish to sample iconic children’s tales from around the world.
I really really loved this book! It will have always a special place on my heart
Cocorí is a lovely story written by author Joaquín Gutiérrez. It is certainly one of the most iconic books in the Costa Rican culture, which tells the story of a little boy who lives by the seaside and, at the same time, with all the nature of the tropical forest. An old turtle (Doña Modorra) and a marmoset are his companions on his self-discovery journey, which, in the end, leaves us with a valuable lesson.
Injustificadamente descalificada por no comprenderse dentro de su época, esta obra es hermosa, ingeniosa e inolvidable. Es ridículo andar descalificando obras de época por sus manifestaciones discriminadoras. Las novelas no son morales.
No esperaba nada de él, y pues... Mi opinión no ha cambiado.
I read it in an afternoon in my home sofa when I was 9 years old. I loved it!
Qué historia tan linda! Cocorí debería enseñarse en todas las escuelas!
Despite the controversies of racism surrounding this book which have originated and, as far as I know have been relegated solely within its country of origin, Cocori remains a popular and an endearing book both with the afro caribean and non afro Caribbean communities.The hero is one of the greatest characters ever put in books, his simplicity, kind heart and valor, more than make up for whatever faults this book may have in regards to its criticism.
While the most picky would scratch their heads as to why Cocori is the only one who seems to be able to communicate with animals, the rest of us take it in stride and simply enjoy the adventures as he traverses through the story.
Me sorprende este libro ya que es una obra super sencilla pero que cautiva. Creo que ese es su principal encanto ya que su sencillez en argumento, lenguaje, entre otros permite que vaya dirigida a diferentes lectores: niños, adultos y que cada cual le de la interpretación según su expriencias.Como educadora lo he compartido con mis alumnos y ellos lo disfrutan plenamente.
I read this book for school as we have a class set of it. However, not that impressed. Seemed a bit racist, calling the main character, "el negrito" ("black boy") even though it was published in 2000. Vocabulary would be challenging for 8th grade Spanish immsersion, but I did like some of the themes, friendship, perseverance, enjoy life and be grateful.
Definitivamente es un libro que cualquier costarricense debería leer 2 veces como mínimo. Una cuando niño y otra de adulto. Las perspectivas cambian con la diferencia de edad y Joaquín Gutiérrez capturó estas contrastantes perspectivas en un libro pequeño, pero que realmente te atrapa desde el principio.
Its a book that is read in Costa Rica during elementary school. Since I didn't grow up in Costa Rica, I wanted to take the time to read this. Its a very popular book here, so whenever they mention it, I won't feel left out. Yay! :)
Literatura costarricense. Linda historia, en especial para niños. La historia de un niño en la provincia de Limón que vive muy feliz y juega en la playa con sus amigos. Se enfrasco en una aventura por la selva con un mono titi y una tortuga. Muy recomendado!
Is my childhood book. When I was in third grade I read it like 500 times because I just love it to much (and I read too fast compared to my classmates, so I got bored following their pace) I recomment it to everyone!
Read my dad's edition... Still remember my happiness when I read the ending.... Lovely!
One of my favorite children books.
Totalmente encantador, perfecto para enseñar valores a los Hijos, Aunque me enseño que el amor no siempre es Feliz.Hecho en Costa Rica!!
buen libro costarricense
Hermosa, hermosa, hermosa historia, llena de fantasía, moralejas y cuestionamientos existenciales. Ideal para niños y adultos.
Grate story, sad to read. This was my first serious book in Spanish. Este libra me gusta, pero es muy tristre.
