https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149398.A_Palm_for_Mrs_Pollifax
I returned to this book this past week, as one of the best comfort reads I know. When the world is overwhelming, this series has been one of my best refuges, one of my favourite fictional universes to escape into when I have no energy to go anywhere new. (Other comfort reads include L.M. Montgomery, Robertson Davies and Spider Robinson books.)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Clever and resourceful, Mrs. Pollifax may have actually saved the world this time! An attempted coup d'etat in a fictional Middle Eastern country, some stolen plutonium, and kidnapped woman and child... all solved in a medical-spa retreat type place in Switzerland.
4.5+ stars: For me, Mrs. Pollifax never disappoints, and of the four I've read so far, this was my favorite.
Since I gave the 3 others 4 stars (for ratings of 3.5 to 4+ so this deserved more).
From the book jacket: "a charming Englishman whose credentials aren't quite in order, a retired French general, a mysterious entourage from an oil-rich Middle-East nation, a beautiful Belgian from UNESCO, a not-very-sociable Egyptian in a wheel chair..." My favorites were Hafez, a 10-year old boy from the Zaybian entourage who is smitten w/Mrs. P in a grandmotherly way, and Robin, an Englishman Mrs. P befriends then learns he's a "cat burglar" and utilizes his skills for good.
It is another fun, adventure filled, quick read with a few stressful moments.

More of the same, and that's just fine.Part Cold-War espionage and spy "thriller," part travelogue, part period piece, part accidental tourist/spy, part gee-whiz-it's-a-series-and-it's-familiar-so-why-not?, part good clean fun (with a little drama and some bite-sized mayhem), and ...
well not much else?Left to my own devices, I'm not sure how much energy I'd put into the series, but ...
my spouse (really) enjoys them, and, once we've bought one, it's free (to me), and it's fun to be able to share and discuss books in the home, so I expect we'll keep progressing through the series (although there's no rush)....Of course, if you plan to try one, do not start here, be sure to start at the beginning.
my copy sucks (can't wait to find and buy a paperback) due to ocr errorspeaches, ha!
I believe this may be my favorite Mrs. Pollifax, because I do so love the brilliant little boy Hafez and have always dreamed of overnighting in a museum. Emily visits a fancy hotel clinic in Switzerland to track down stolen plutonium, but something else is going on, and we get to rocket about the countryside and dawdle with the rich. She’s clearly a professional now, and although she does her usual collection of good people, this isn’t as repetitious as the earlier books can seem.
Grandmotherly Mrs. Pollifax has had several assignments for the CIA and gets one to go to a snazzy medical resort near Lake Geneva.
Interpol is working with the CIA, but even before Mrs. Pollifax arrives, an agent meets a suspicious demise.
When she gets there, a boy seeks her friendship and Mrs. Pollifax' knack for making helpful friends again serves her well.
Mrs. Pollifax wades in, snooping and caring, both.This is the fourth in the series and the third one for me.
Mrs. Pollifax faces the bad guys using most enjoyable common sense and positive attitude, so much that those are contagious for both her allies and readers.
Mrs. Pollifax is a widow who unexpectedly became a CIA agent.
This time around she is sent to a clinic in Switzerland where stolen plutonium may have been shipped.
Mrs. Pollifax befriends several other people at the clinic including a young boy named Hafez and a jewel thief.
This book was written in the 1970’s so parts seem a bit dated, such as giving a briefing using a slide projector, but it was nice looking back to a time when computers and cell phones weren't everywhere.
Mrs. Pollifax is always fun and this book is no exception.
This whole series is enjoyable.
A favorite character and series, the inimitable Mrs. Pollifax. A fiesty geriatric agent for the CIA? Always an intriguing mystery, great characters and the delightful witty approach to life and danger by Mrs. Pollifax. This read did not disappoint.
I am really enjoying this series. I also appreciate the development of Mrs. Pollifax's character. I hope the books continue in this direction. I am looking forward to reading the next one.
We're treated to a change of pace, here, in that it isn't one long wild ride from one destination to the next; here, the majority of the story unfolds in the Hotel-Clinic Montbrison in Switzerland, though things do pick up a bit in the end.
But it's more than that; the story itself just isn't strong, there are a lot of things that don't make sense, and one bit that really had me scratching my head was where Hafez takes inventory of his possessions (in true Dorothy Gilman style, and which I personally adore) one of which is a pocket knife.
Hazef 10, "very brown, very thin and wiry and leggy, with jet-black hair" p 31, hostage for his gran Madame Parviz's behavior, exchanges Madame's sleeping pills for Emily's aspirin, to waken the comatose patient.
(hide spoiler)]Emily promises silence to very handsome blonde green-eyed Robin Burke-Jones brightly attired in "yellow slacks, an orange hirt, and a polka-dotted cravat" p 39 if he return Lady Palisbury's stolen diamond, and unlocks door of empty-eyed killer Ibrahim Sabry, who pretends to need a wheelchair.
Sheik Yazdan Kashan wants the country of Zabya so kidnaps Madame to control General Parviz, head of the army, and a bomb - for what?
Emily obeys because they threaten Hafez who complies to protect his gran, so who is helping whom?
When I first saw one of the books in the Mrs. Pollifax series, I assumed it was another cozy mystery.
I really enjoyed the first three books in the series and I was eager to read more about this entertaining character.
The various characters seem to be almost over-the-top stereotypical, but the story is still exciting and dramatic.
I really like the characters and the plucky courage with which Emily conducts herself.
I am really looking forward to reading the fifth book in the series, Mrs. Pollifax on Safari.interesting quotes:"One cannot tell the young anything, madame." (p.
I approached Mrs. Pollifax, a new detective for me, with the more curiosity because she had been recommended by a friend who does not often indulge in light reading.
And indeed Mrs. Pollifax is a little off-beat for a detective; she shares with Miss Marple her age, sex, and boundless curiosity, but Mrs. Pollifax's intelligence is more straightforward, and she is considerably more effective physically in her rather more threatening world.
The plot is very up-to-date, dealing in murder only as a sort of side-effect to the even more serious crimes of stealing plutonium and destabilizing an African government.
I listened to this book on my kindle.
I have been reading Mrs. Pollifax books for over 30 years.
I started out loving the idea of an older woman working for the CIA, and being in dangerous situations.
Emily Pollifax uses her wits and wisdom to carry out her assignments, and to get out of bad situations.
Now that I'm an older woman, the idea of a Mrs. Pollifax is even more appealing.
24 April 2014 I had a hard time going to sleep last night, so I played this audiobook again.
I just finished listening to this book again.
Another rollicking adventure with the unlikely CIA agent, Mrs. Pollifax ! This time she is sent to a sanitarium in Switzerland where a shipment of plutonium has been mailed under the guise of "medical supplies". She poses as a lady recovering from Hong Kong flu and is directed to just poke around and see what she can find. What she finds is murder and mayhem and adventures ! This is great "light reading" !!
In this story, Mrs. Pollifax gets a harder mission assigned to her, and the stakes seem to be higher, though considering her previous adventures, I feel like the stakes for her were always as high as could be.Her companions once again do not disappoint. I just love these secondary characters and the only thing that makes me sad is when I get to end of the book and realize that I'm not seeing most of them again.
This is a fun re-read. I absolutely love this series. While this is not my favorite books out of the series, I would highly recommend people reading the first book "The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax." Mrs. Pollifax is an unexpected spy. She is a little old lady that wanted to be a spy and so she became one. She is quirky and loves wearing strange hats.
3.5 stars.Good old-fashioned story telling with a zippy plot and amusing dialog. It reminded me of the old Audrey Hepburn/Cary Grant movie Charade (if Hepburn was a feisty septuagenarian.)
These are light and fun. Geriatric spies!
Mrs. Pollifax .... Always a delight ... For a quick escape into a grandmotherly world of espionage.
This book is one of those weird cases where the disparate parts are great but the whole doesn't quite gel together as well as it should.
I really enjoyed all the side characters- we see more of Bishop and Carstairs, Hafez- the precocious and terrified grandson trying desperately to find a "friend" to help, Robin the jewel thief clearly capable of reform, even Court who has sworn not to love are all enjoyable and feel real within in their larger-than-life context.
And the attempt by a religious zealot to overtake a country and then the world also fit this feel.
Still, if you enjoy the other Pollifax books, it's hard not to enjoy following Emily along, even if the overall adventure lacked a mysterious something.
"He stared at the walls of the Clinic, thinking of all the people inside asleep but this only made him feel lonely.
It took special people like Mrs. Pollifax and Robin to understand, he thought, and he supposed it was because they were in some way outsiders.
They had dared the loneliness.He felt a wave of infinite gratitude toward them and he thought, 'I will be like them when I grow up, I swear I will.'"Hafez, ten years old.
I loved this installment of Mrs. Pollifax!
I don't think I can say it is my favorite of the four books I've read so far, as I think the third book, The Elusive Mrs. Pollifax, is my favorite thus far.
In this installment, Mrs. P.
Mrs. P., as usual, ends up in a tangle and must employ, along with the help of a young boy, Hafez, and a suave and debonair English jewel thief, her usual antics and karate skills.
If you have never read a Mrs. Pollifax novel, and you are looking for a lighthearted, but sometimes serious, read, then this is the book for you.
Ok, 3 1/2 stars. I enjoyed this fourth book in the series, but not as much as the first three. Perhaps it was the setting of Switzerland? I liked the section of the book set at Chillon Castle - I visited there as a teen and it made a big impression on me, so that was neat. But on the whole, the setting was a bit of a dud for me. Ah well, I will continue on with the series but may take a short break so I don't burn out on it.
Another re-read, another one of my favourite series. I do have to admit though that this one is the least favourite of the series. I don't know what makes it so. It could be the plot, or the way things are resolved. I don't know exactly. I do know that I love Mrs Pollifax and I can't wait to re-read book 5 :)
This time Emily is embroiled in a plot to construct an atom bomb and overthrow the Middle East power base. However, it begins in a medical clinic in Switzerland, with guests including a 10-year-old boy, his grandmother, a retired general from The Surete, a young beautiful girl, and a mysterious, well-dressed Brit, in addition to Interpol. Fun.
Silly and quite ridiculous; Mrs. Polifax warms my heart. The series is a joyful romp through espionage and a softened view of the evils of the world. Dorothy Gilman allows me to escape deeper thought in the sometimes dreary world - much like the Howard Hawkes classic “Bringing Up Baby”. A guilty pleasure.
My first Mrs. Pollifax book, but I hope not my last. Interesting tale in which this grandmother, working for the CIA, goes to a clinic in Switzerland to see what, if anything, she can find out about some stolen plutonium. Mrs. P. is resourceful, friendly, and a good judge of character, and she is NOT silly, which goes a long way in my book.
