https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7925.All_of_a_Kind_Family_Downtown
I’d skipped this one and the Ella book when I read books 1, 3, and 4 because I’d been informed that this one had been written later (turns out not to be true, though it was published later) and that the tone and story were too different, and it was not worth reading.
For me it was very worth reading, and I wish I’d read them “in order” meaning in the chronological order of the ages/lives of these family members.
I do wish I’d read this book right after the first book.
The fifth Ella book seems least popular and I’m not sure whether or not I’ll read it, but I probably will eventually; I’d have rather the focus been on Sarah (Sydney).
I LOVED these books when I was a little girl and read them over and over - I learned so much about the Jewish religion - how to be in a family, the power of love, the richness of the holidays - the joys of having sisters - I could see and smell what was happening in these books - I have been on the look out for them for some time as I want to purchase them for a few of the little people in my life
That loving, close-knit Jewish family, five girls and one boy, whose life in New York City during the early years of the twentieth century is chronicled in author Sydney Taylor's five-book series, return in this delightful new adventure, which covers events occurring between  All-of-a-Kind Family  and  More All-of-a-Kind Family . Because it backtracks in the chronology of the series, some readers consider it the second book, although it was published fourth. For my part,  More All-of-a-Kind Fami
That loving, close-knit Jewish family, five girls and one boy, whose life in New York City during the early years of the twentieth century is chronicled in author Sydney Taylor's five-book series, return in this delightful new adventure, which covers events occurring between 
Highly recommend to all fans of the first three books about this family, and to anyone looking for children's stories about life on New York City's Lower East Side specifically, or new immigrant enclaves in America's cities generally.
There is just something refreshing about this series! The writing style is simple yet not boring. The characters are so real that I sometimes think I could go visit them. And life on the East Side of New York for this Jewish American family in the early 1900s is vivid. I love each of the girls: Ella, Hennie, Sarah, Charlotte, and Gertie, and baby Charlie. So much fun, trouble, and love.
Just as good as the first, or maybe, even better.
While I ended up reading this family's story out of order it was still warm and wonderful and I loved every word. The characters are delightful and it opened my eyes to the lives of immigrants at the turn of the last century. I am grateful that Sydney Taylor took the time to put pen to paper and record a fictionalized version of the childhood she experienced as in immigrant in New York.
These would make great family read-alouds!Ages: 9 - 12Cleanliness:Romance Related - 5 Incidents: Girls have a crush on a certain boy.
An older girl says how handsome a boy is - just observance, not a crush etc.
And Ma …”Attitudes/Disobedience - 5 Incidents: A girl sticks her tongue out at her sister.
She repents, makes amends and learns a lesson.
A girl gets up on the wrong side of the bed and she behaves poorly, learning some lessons though.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Children's Bad Words, Conversation Topics and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
It begins when Charlie, the little brother of the five protagonists who was born at the end of the last book, is three months old.This book was new to me--I only owned three in the series as a child--so it was good to read stories about the family that I hadn't seen before, such as the child with theatrical ambitions and musical talent getting a part in a Purim play, but not the part she wanted and the girls befriending a kindly nurse who works in a settlement house for immigrants on the Lower East Side.
Guido was a nice enough kid, but I knew that he wouldn't show up in the next two books and didn't expect him to appear in the final one.
4.5 stars loved it on audio
I didn't think I had read this before, but certain scenes sounded really familiar.
Like the other books, I really enjoyed this one.
I think publishing all of the books together in a treasury would be a great idea!
I was a bit confused as to how this fit into the series, as I was seeing conflicting statements as to what number it was.
What I finally found out was that, although this was the second-to-last book written, the events in it take place just after All-of-a-Kind Family—so it is the second book in the series.
Chalk up another crushing disappointment to re-reading an old favorite. I'm certainly still fond of the characters, but this book feels awkward. The dialogue is stilted, the plot clunky, and the illustrations just stink. There's certainly a place for Beth and Joe Krush, I love their work in several books- but their drawings here make my teeth hurt- their free, almost messy style doesn't gibe with Mama's bandbox neatness. This one's not going back on my shelf (which is to say, goodreads friends, if you want it, it's yours).
I just reread this to confirm my childhood impression--it's by far the weakest of the first four books, perhaps on a level with ELLA. The language is awkward and the dialogue is stilted. The characterizations are weak (especially of the parents and two new characters). Makes me wonder why the author decided to write this book--maybe she wanted to write something about settlement houses, and decided to give it to the AOAKF characters.
What I never realized until today was that this book was written years after the other four--and it shows, big time. Of course, I didn't know that when I was little, and I think I read this one almost as many times as I read All-of-a-Kind Family. But it's not as charming, and neither are the illustrations. They look dated instead of classic like the beautiful pen-and-ink drawings of the other books. I mean, it's not a bad book, but the others have a lot more to recommend them.
I have this book in hardback from childhood. This is another rating based on good memories. How I loved this family and the way they helped one another. And how I grieved for all thier troubles. This book was my first introduction to the lives of people not like myself (who were otherwise drawn from life and not fairy tales or animals).
What can I say? These are really cute books about five sisters and their baby brother living in NYC around 1913. My children (8 & 9 yrs old) really enjoyed this book and learning a little about what it was like during that setting in America. We will be looking for more stories about this family!
Clearly an afterthought, missing the crisp characterization of earlier books in the series. Feels like Taylor was following a script with this one, which was written several years after the first three. Chronologically, it takes place between books I and II.
Probably 3.5 stars--1, 3, and 4 are my favorites in this series.
I read these when I was in 3rd grade, I think, and it's a sweet little series of books. Great books to help educate a youngster about other cultures in an unobtrusive way.
It is a part of a series that chronicles the life of an immigrant Jewish family living on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in the early 1900’s.
The series is intended for children and teens; however, the Downtown book was initially rejected for publication because it was deemed to grim for young readers.
While the All-of-a-Kind family is loving and fairly comfortable they meet up with a young Italian boy whose mother works in the harsh and unforgiving garment district environment.
The black and white illustrations throughout depict both the warmth of the kind family and the harshness of immigrant life.
I have to agree with other reviewers: this one is simply not as enchanting as the others.
I don't think it is stilted language, as others said.
It is more that the story didn't hold together very well.
We have Henny being a real brat and all that we learn is that Mama had a long talk with her.
It just stops short.
We do have an ongoing story with Guido to hold together the book, but it isn't really enough.
Somehow the story isn't particularly memorable.
It isn't particularly bad, but it isn't particularly good either.
I haven’t read the others in this series, but the whole family loved this one. We listened to it on audiobook, and contrary to some critiques on Goodreads, we didn’t find the language stilted or awkward at all. I can’t speak to the illustrations as we obviously didn’t see those. I love the sisters’ empathy, the way the book tackled parental loss sensitively, and the way the adults acted in community to support one another. I also thought the descriptions of the Jewish Thanksgiving holiday were particularly noteworthy. Highly recommend this book. Narration very well done by Suzanne Toren.
The All-of-a-Kind Family books were some of my mother's favorites growing up so of course I read them as a child. I recently re-read them and still enjoyed them as an adult. There are some parts of them that are rather problematic from a religious tolerance perspective but in general they stand the test of time and are sweet well written books.
A continuation of the first book, it appears to start where All of a Kind Family left off with the birth of Charlie, the youngest child and only brother to Ella, Henny, Sarah, Charlotte, and Gertie. Like the first book; this one is a little more than a collection of anecdotes about the sisters. This is the story of how Guido, a young boy who sometimes stops by Papa's junk shop to sell things and Miss Carey the nurse who delivered Charlie become a family.
1913 - Lower East Side, New York City. The All-of-a-Kind Family continues with the five sisters befriended troubled Guido. Dependable and rational Ella leads the way to befriend Guido. Henny continues being a mischievous little girl, and Sarah is adorable as always.
Love reading childhood favorites. There are illustrations and lines that I remember so well that it's like seeing an old friend.
This continues the charming story of the 5 sisters. Includes description of how scary polio used to be.
Another fun family adventure. Such a pleasant wholesome read.
As good as the 1st one. 3 down & 2 more to go - reading books from my childhood has been fun!
Series continues to be a great, fun historical read.
Beautiful, beautiful book—a great one of a series. :-)
