https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156533.Y
The last few volumes of this series have left me feeling lukewarm.
It's like they feel they don't have to try as hard once you are already engaged.
The best analogy I can think of is how you can switch to well booze and cheap beer after you have a good buzz because you don't notice the difference.
Well, I have been noticing a difference and I am so glad this series has not been letting it slide.Strong, engaging story - checkFantastic artwork - checkOh, and did I mention cliffhangers galore?
This is definitely a story I will be sticking with!
Do you see how the ring glistens like gold in one light...And silver in the next?
This represents the male and female sides which all of us possess.Volume 5: Ring of Truth continues to be strong and interesting.
Y: The Last Man is about the only man ("The Last Man") to survive a mysterious plague that wiped out every other male of all the species on the planet ("every mammal with a Y chromosome).This volume starts with Tongues of Flame and ends with Ring of Truth."My name`s Toyota.""Wh-What?""Yeah, Yeah, I know.
Like the Car?
I think I’m going to have to stick it out and hope for the best.
I’m going to forgive you the sins of books 4 & 5, Vaughan, but if 6 isn’t a vast improvement, we might need to have THE TALK.The premise of this volume was so stupid I wanted to gouge out my eyes.
(hide spoiler)].)(oh, and here’s Hurley reading a copy of Y The Last Man)And the dialog was so pedestrian it was laughable (It’s at the corner of FUCK YOU and GO TO HELL!; Don't do it, this is a stupid place to die...), but for whatever reason, I’m still intrigued.
It's been two years and he's the only man alive in a whole world full of horny women and it's THIS GUY who's being faithful to someone he was proposing to over the phone when everyone started dying who is left to repopulate the planet?
She's on the other side of the world and it took him a month to get out of NYC!Sometimes you just have to say no to love and start repopulating the planet, dude.Other than that, this was a pretty exciting volume with a few surprises and a lot more bloody action as the nuts come out to play.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Damn. These are so good. I don't want to read them all in a go but I just can't top reading them. Will have to pick up Vol. 9 and 10 on Friday since those are the only ones I am missing. If you guys haven't started this series yet started now. this series just gets more and more intense.
No he podido reseñar ningún volumen de esta serie, pero sepan que me tiene completamente fascinada.Me voy directo a leer la continuación.
This series continues to be so incredibly strong, I can't recommend it enough.In this collection, we find out more about Hero as she struggles to "deprogram" herself from her past as a member of The Amazons.
Well, sort of.
We're still unaware of what caused it so it could only be a guess on the part of Dr. Mann.
I was sort of satisfied with the revelation; not blown away.
If anything, it makes me a little weary of what originally caused it.
[I disapprove of it but] I did love how Beth II was representing Eve (and/or Snake) to lead (I'm not gonna say lure regardless of what a weak character he has)Yorick astray (into what she wants, which is just a lil bit of sewks).[art is still superb]Yorick: Jesus, I came here for forgiveness...but now I've just got more shit to be sorry for.Reading on, we see a blonde-haired rotting corpse just as our story shifts to Australia for us to see what happened to Beth.
This is issue was AMAZING! Everything you ever loved about Brian K Vaughan is in this. Good plot, great character development, crazy action, fantastic plot twists and reall funny as well. Apart from the first one this is probably my favourite volume yet!(Also what happened with Beth? Give me MORE!!! And once gain: not cool Yorrick, not cool)
Review in Volume 10.
I LOVE THIS SERIES!!!

The last half gets 3 stars.
First part gets 1 star.
Not my cup of tea and made me a little sick to my stomach to have read it.
It added nothing to the story and could just as easily have not been in the book, even if this was the first time Yorick finally gets with a woman.In this volume, the group is finally at the lab.
I feel his name is carries too much weight in this story for it to be cut down to something as common as 'Rick.Two stars only because the last part redeemed it self.
Shit! I mean it literally! Shit!This is getting unputdownable volume by volume.
Another fantastic volume! I can't wait to pick up the next volume from the library!!
And though this is another short story that only features Yorick, Vaughan manages to make it feel entirely important and tense.
Plus, there's some great character study for Yorick, growing out of the previous story, and a nice, harrowing flashback [7+/10].Hero's Journey (#26).
It's great putting together the pieces of Hero's story, and perhaps giving us a little empathy for the insane monster that we saw in the first two years of this book.
Overall, a very fulfilling story (7+/10).After the rocky shorts that filled the last volumes, it feels like Y has its grove back.
lol typical teenager really and brian tells it as it is how disappointed Yorick was when he found out that he wasn't the chosen one of anything and that ambersand's crap is what saved him was hilarious
I'm so glad the story is turning out to be a sci-fi genre and not a fantasy one.
Yes, we've finally made it to San Francisco, albeit after another tiresome episode in which Yorick "finds himself spritually" through the romantic/sexual attentions of freshly concocted female character (view spoiler)[who is then quickly disposed of, but at least she's not killed, so improvement!
The writing even seems aware of this in the not-so-subtle "This is our story so far" summary it shoehorns in at the beginning of volume, having Yorick explain why they've done so little (namely: People keep trying to kill them).
Good stuff!Story: It's great, it's paced well and the story keeps me interested in the characters and what they are going through.
There are actually 3 stories here and all three are good, I liked the church story and also the Amperstand one but the middle story with Hero is not bad also.
I don't want to say anymore as this story is a wonderful experience and going in with no knowledge is the best way to read it.Characters: Yorick and his change is great, it's been slow and it makes sense.
People are still trying to kill them, the number of ‘secret societies’ following the trio is growing, and I’m losing track of everyone’s motives.
Yorick spends the majority of this volume advising other characters of his extreme uselessness.
Things are more peaceful and organised than places we’ve previously seen, however rather than look into this further, and show us some women who have adapted well to change, and how they managed this, Vaughn chooses to introduce us to more crazy, violent ladies who are looking to kill Yorick.
One more volume and then I’m going to have to cut my losses and give up.
I'm still reading these books, though the story is not entirely entertaining.
I'm still not entirely sure why I should like any of the characters.
They haven't developed any of them in this volume, and it's a surprise after learning a lot in the fourth.
And if this "revelation" as to why Yorick and the monkey survived the plague is any indication, I'm not going to be very satisfied with what caused it.
The "mystery" of the amulet of Helene was also not as satisfying to learn in accordance to all the build up it got.
I ended this volume going, "So?"But I suppose I shall continue on.
Finally, I can say that "something happened" in this volume.The church scene is one of the best I have read so far since the first issue.
The confessional conversation with another Beth is a huge breather, after all that happened.
The dialogue is top-notch.There's also a big revelation near the end of the volume, something which is related with the reason why Yorick and Ampersand survived the plague.
Ring of Truth is bulkier than the first four volumes, so that means more action.
And yes those action panels are satisfying.
There are also quiet moments and other mini revelations, all brilliantly executed.
3.5 stars...Whole lotta stuff happening. Yorick learns that everything they say about Catholic girls is true, why it's a bad idea to eat canned food if the can is dented, and the value of monkey shit. Hero has an imaginary Amazon friend who tells her cray-zee shit. Agent 355 is still a bad ass. Ninja! Nutjobs in burkhas! And, oh, crap, has anyone seen Ampersand?
Ah, we're back on track :)Loved how the story developed, loved Hero's story, loved Yorick being the nerd he is :DDidn't like the Beth #1 thing, even though it was just a matter of time.And, omg, need to know what happened with Beth #2 D:
Yorick reunites with Hero! All the other drama in this volume is frankly unnecessary.
Finally, getting some answers...
So monkey shit is the reason Yorick is alive? And Hero's back!! Halfway through!!
Read the full review also on my blog: https://lets-geek.blogspot.com/2018/1...Y The Last Man TP Book Five is better than the previous two volumes, as things start to become more focused, and we get a step closer to understanding what has happened.Total Rating: 8/10Originality: 8/10Art style: 9/10Atmosphere: 7/10Characters: 8/10Dialogue: 9/10World building: 7/10Fun: 8/10Predictability: 9/10Believable: 7/10Relevancy: 8/10Genre: Sci Fi, Graphic NovelFor You if you like: LostSimilar Books / Authors: Saga, PreacherTime It Took Me To Read: approx.
Both play a vital role in these volumes - which I kind of hate, but in the end it resolves in a way I find more believable than all of this weird set up.
