https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17798.Fads_and_Fallacies_in_the_Name_of_Science
Man, people believed some crazy nonsense in the 50s. Homeopathy, Dianetics, chiropractic, hollow earth, dowsing... Well, at least those fads have run their course and people are approaching life with a more sensible and logical outlook now. Oh, wait... Shit.
This book.Made me furious.I swear, at least once a chapter I would flip back to the copyright page and shout that we had decided that anti-vax/flat-earth/homeopathy/etc was bullshit in the early fifties and are we still having these conversations sixty years later whyThe final straw was coming upon a two?
I love Martin Gardner.But I am so angry that all these years later his writing comes off as prescient and timely and topical.Sorry if this is all a bit disjointed, I'm still fuming.
Read this and we can fume together.
The hope, namely, that among the many cackling chicks there might be, one day, a little eagle capable like himself, to look from his lofty perch into the far distance, in order to detect new worlds, new thoughts, and new forms of living."- William Reich, founder of orgonomy, who believed that all living things are infused with a blue-colored life force called orgone energy, and that all neuroses can be cured by a really good orgasm."The Creation of dianetics is a milestone for Man comparable to his discovery of fire and superior to his inventions of the wheel and arch."- L.
Especially worthwhile are the chapters on flat & hollow earth theories, sexual ideologies, and Scientology (then called "Dianetics" and only two years old - Gardner thought the fad was on its way out).
An interesting and enjoyable read, but like the somewhat similarly themed  Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds  it suffers from a few noteworthy issues.The first is the lack of references. Quotes occur often, but the exact location they are drawn from is not always attributed. Now, I will admit that I'm unlikely to track down any of the works mentioned (OK, maybe some of the Hollow Earth ones), but at the same time a reference as to where and when a quote was stated would m
An interesting and enjoyable read, but like the somewhat similarly themed 
Now, I will admit that I'm unlikely to track down any of the works mentioned (OK, maybe some of the Hollow Earth ones), but at the same time a reference as to where and when a quote was stated would make the book seem a bit less light and allow a somewhat better chronological structuring of the surveyed cranks' changes in opinions.The second is that, nearly 60 years after the first edition and more than 50 since the second, the book is quite simply dated.
Although the book is quite old, it still has much to offer the modern skeptic, since many of the "fads and fallacies" of sixty years ago are still around.
Ron Hubbard is interesting, though I am sure more is known today.
Gardner accepts Hubbard's war hero status without question, although as I understand it, today there are questions about his service.
Still Gardner doesn't flinch from pointing out the flaws in Hubbard's own life, character, and work.
I'd have liked a longer chapter on the tangle of fallacies around sexuality, but perhaps that was deemed of questionable taste at the time the book was published.
You’ll recognize many of the names (L.
Ron Hubbard, Wilhelm Reich, Immanuel Velikovsky) and be first introduced to many others.
Gardner acknowledges that there is a broad grey area between crank science and orthodox science where wild (but perhaps true) theories live, and that often orthodox science is just plain wrong, but he insists that there is a well-defined and identifiable arena for cranks.
He shows no overt sympathy for these loonies, but his affection for their eccentricities shines through.
The book was published in the 1950s, and so is slightly dated, but I wouldn't let this stop you.
(Haven't read this cover-to-cover, I just pick it up every now and again.)Martin Gardner is remembered today for his work as one of the first successful "pop scientists." You could say he was the Carl Sagan of the 40's and 50's, but the comparison ends at the surface; Gardner was a polymath who attained academic recognition slowly, through his writing, whereas Sagan followed a more or less traditional path to the top of the ivory tower, and from there began preaching.
The University was devoted entirely to inculcating in its "students" (most of whom lived on-campus) a complete knowledge of Lawson's teachings, previously espoused in several dozen self-published volumes.
It seems ironic that throughout the book it comes across that he is attacking the pseudo-scientists the same way they are defending themselves; by attempting to shout more things that appear to support their point of view than the other side.
There is no mention of using scientific methods to prove or refute the theories.Two chapters stand out above the others as a sign of the times in which this book was written and brings one to question whether much of this is motivated by the author’s personal views.
But then again as he states in his book, most serious scientists don’t think the topics are worth their effort to refute.
This book was a lot of fun. It's not an in-depth criticism of the topics covered, instead functioning more like a friend reading something you both agree is ridiculous and reading aloud the best parts. Less dated that you might expect for a book written in 1952, both in the author's attitude and in the topics covered.

I read this as a kid and it's stayed with me ever since. Gardner's takedowns of various pseudosciences, from now-long-forgotten crackpottery like Fletcherism to others, like Dianetics and its current incarnation, Scientology, which continue to plague us to this day, are the perfect thing for a budding skeptic to hone their critical thinking skills on, skills that are needed more than ever in a world in which delusions like birtherism, climate change denial, "intelligent design" creationism, "alternative" medicine, and the like are just as prevalent (if not more so thanks to the Internet).
Too many descriptions of fads and pseudo-scientists who have long since faded away. Too many references to ideas and people "in the news" that were completely unfamiliar to me. The opening chapter on the nature of pseudo-science was interesting, but most of the following summaries of specifics were dull and repetitious.
Way outdatedThis book goes back to 1957, so is badly in need of an update. It does, however, prove the adage, the more things change the more they stay the same. In fact it is disheartening to reflect that 60 years later not only is pseudoscientific claptrap still around, it is thriving more than ever thanks to the Internet.
This is the classic work on pseudoscience. Gardner is also an insightful and amusing writer. He gives such nonsense as Scientology, UFOlogy, homeopathy, and flat-earth theory a lot of slack, which only makes their silliness more evident. Recommended most highly.
Still interesting This book, though a little dated in its examples and details, is still a classic and worth a read.This is actually at least the third time that I’ve read it.
The first time was sometime in the late 1950s when I was still in elementary school.
It was a good reminder to me at that time of what science was about and that however cool and trendy the psychic hoogie-moogie, astrology, and occultism of my friends early in the Aquarian Age seemed, ultimately it had to be self delusion or fraud.The bits that are now the most dated are simply the refutations of the fallacies being debunked; 70 more years of scientific progress makes it much easier find disproofs, especially in the fields of genetics, biology, planetary science, and physics.
A justified classic of scientific skepticism, and don't let the mid-20th-c.
publication date fool you: a large chunk of the titular fads and fallacies Gardner describes are still limping along into $CURRENT_YEAR, and in several cases are stronger than ever.
(Especially depressing are the cases of homeopathy, anti-vaccine hysteria, UFOs, creationism, and Scientology, all of which Gardner believed would peter out relatively quickly.)Caveats: Gardner was a decent and liberal-minded man but some of the terminology of the Fifties is just not.
Interesting and whitty book, but some views are probably outdated as it was written more than 50 years ago.
But he did.One anecdote related to one of Gardner's targets: 15 years ago, a friend asked if I had ever heard of Immanuel Velikovsky.
Suddenly, I had access to an obscure text!From flat earthers, to Wilhelm Reich's orgone, to medical cults like chiropractic, Gardner spared none of the cranks he examined.
Gardner says that a crank's - a "sincere pseudo-scientist's" - paranoid tendencies are likely to be exhibited as:1.
And from the conclusion...The spectacular recent successes of pseudo-science have a value also in publicizing aspects of our culture that are much in need of improvement.
[emphasis mine] We need more and better popularizer of science.
In this pioneering work of skepticism, Martin Gardner, best known as the Mathematical Games columnist for Scientific American, discusses a vast array of pseudoscientific beliefs ranging from silly but harmless to downright evil and dangerous.Frankly, I was slightly surprised that this book is considered a classic in the skeptical literature.
Also of interest is to compare the frontiers of science, and pseudoscience, at the time of publication with the present day.
Some popular present-day crazy beliefs (read: Scientology) were just getting started then, and many of the most worrisome fads of that time are now practically unheard of.
In this book, written in 1952 and updated in 1957, Gardner examines pseudo-science and the many strange movements that developed in the late 1800's and early twentieth century.
While Gardner cautions that the ideas of some earlier scientists were rejected by the scientific community but turned out to be valid, he makes it clear that most of the "modern" fads are driven by cranks and have no likelihood of validity.
It is interesting to compare pseudo-science at the middle of the twentieth century to today.
Good, clean, fun debunking.
Part of the enjoyment is the outlandishness of some of the theories debunked -- for instance, genius bees from Mars flying UFOs!
Gardner obviously enjoys when the pseudoscience he punctures is unintentionally hilarious.
But it's also enlightening to see Gardner essay and attack certain movements that are still with us -- the book was written in the 50s -- especially Dianetics (just newly born then, the aliens hadn't been introduced yet) and the anti-evolution propaganda of the time.

In 1957, Martin Gardner wrote a book debunking just about every major pseudoscience cluttering popular culture.
Over 50 years later, his analysis of dianetics, UFOs, ESP, etc.
are as cogent or moreso as they were during the Eisenhower administration.
He lays out the modus operandi of the crank/'misunderstood genius' in clear unmistakable terms.His first and last chapters urge that America do a better job in educating people in the sciences so that they are not conned by these scams, and that press and publishers stop printing so much hokum.
He was likely disappointed by the internet when he passed away in 2010.
I noted Martine Gardner's death this month at the age of 95. He first published this book in 1952 and I have reread this book many times over the years as well as given away copies to friends. Basically, he managed to capture what he thought were the biggest scams against reason and science. In 2011 we are still watching a cycle of the same subjects. I have read much of what Mr. Gardner wrote over the years and greatly appreciated his efforts at presenting whatever caught his interest- which was a lot. See his NY times obituary: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/24/us/...RIP
This book makes a bigger sceptic out of a smaller one. The author relies on "hard" science - whatever that is. Granted the amount of nonsense that passes for facts is huge however rejecting everything without careful study. Everybody purports to be a specialist, a writer, a scientist, a genius. Part of me wishes we could throw all unneeded, all nonsensical and clear humanity of all the crap it tends to accumulate.
Healthy disrespect. See global warming. It is worth being sceptical, and noting that "consensus," real or imagined, has nothing to do with the reliability or validity of a proposition. If more people believed (or disputed) that the world was flat, would it be more or less true? The same applies to characterization such as "in denial" or "conspiracy," or even "undeniable," which isn't science at all. Just rhetoric.
I can't believe I waited so long to read this foundational book from the grandfather of the Skeptic's Movement. It is both discouraging and encouraging to see what has changed and stayed the same in the past 50 years. So while it is disappointing to see some obscure cults have grown beyond expectation (dianetics), most are unheard of now. It is also bittersweet to see that American anti-intellectualism and anti-science is nothing new, and neither is a society's short attention span.
More of an overview than an analysis, so it starts to drag in places. Doesn't really address bogusness that isn't 'in the name of science' (astrology, etc), but a couple of chapters are worthwhile. Flat earth theorists in particular cracked me up, and ESP is debunked convincingly. Read the parts that interest you, and skip the rest
this book takes a look at a range of scientific charlatans operating in the early 20th century. because of when it was written (1950s), it dips back into the 19th century a good deal, providing some nice historical perspective on what we may think of as modern movements. mary roach certainly owes a debt to gardner, for the subject matter, the perspective, and the humor.
This book is a lot of fun. Not as dense Gardner's Science: Good, Bad, and Bogus, and Fads and Fallacies might be better for it. He sounds less like an irate man here, quibbling over minor, often semantic, details, Gardner instead provides a critical overview of strange beliefs.
