https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81976.The_Case_Against_the_Fed
In the process, fractional reserve banking expands the money supply, for the result is consequently the boom and bust cycle.Over the history of central banking, counterfeiting money has proven to be tricky because it is impossible without monopolization, for the only method to control money is to eliminate free market restrictions on fractional reserve banking.
Free market restrictions prevent commercial banks from inflating the currency by issuing pseudo banknotes.
This is the best starting point for anyone who wishes to understand the problems with debt-based central banking.
The Federal Reserve rules the roost in the banking world, and sadly it is not a reserve, has never been audited, and is one of the most corrupt entities in the American government.Rothbard gives a brief history of the Fed, and then shows the reader how it prints money, distributes this money, creates inflation, which in turn hurts investors and people who wish to retain savings.If you want to understand the current economic problems in America, take it from one of the foremost experts in the Austrian school of economics.
The most important thing I learned in this book is that the private ownership of the Federal Reserve is not the most interesting part of its sneakiness.
It is the control and power which the Federal Reserve can exert by expanding and contracting credit at will - totally unregulated, that makes it so pernicious.
The issuance of high-powered money (money at stage 1 of the inflation process) to the Fed's friends and families makes it terribly powerful.One more interesting tidbit was the fact that Marriner Eccles (a latter-day saint) was part of the Rockefeller-led ousting in 1930s of the Morgan family who had principle control over the Fed initially.
Besides Ron Paul's similar stance on the issue, there is not many other books out there that present such a full, convincing, and scathing case against the Federal Reserve being the central bank in the U.S. and the undue influence it has over the economy, markets, and the actions people take on a daily basis.
The benevolence of the Fed is quickly laid 6 feet under and you will be caught thinking about the dollars you hold in your hand every time you go to the store.
If you are interested in the markets, economy, money, or what the future has in store for the U.S. dollar, this is an absolute must read.
Ever since the creation of the Federal Reserve, the U.S. taxpayers have been hostages to the banking cartel.This book simply explains how the Feds cause the cycle of boom and busts, and how they profit from it. It explains how inflation and fractional reserve banking works, also to their benifit at the expense of the taxpayer.In summary the book expains how the Morgans and Rockerfellers have a monopoly on counterfieting the U.S. dollar with the "full faith and credit of the U.S. Government".This book, though written in 1994, helps one understand what is going on in todays "economic crisis".
Generally considered to be a classic introduction to Austrian economics, I highly recommend The Case Against The Fed as a starting point for those interested in the financial driving factors behind American boom/bust cycles. Note that while you can purchase a more convenient electronic copy of this book for a few dollars--which I recommend doing--you can also download it for free from the Ludwig von Mises Institute at http://mises.org.
Murray Rothbard gives a withering rebuke of the institution that may have more impact on our daily lives than any other in the country.
the first half of the book is very pertinent to our current economic situation and the second half exposes the in-bed-ness of industry and central banking.
Paranoid nonsense, but I promised I'd read it to expand my "scope of thinking" - a gold bug's wet dream.
Not the most detailed book but it does give novices in monetary economics basic information on how the Federal Reserve and the entire banking system is run on a deck of cards.
Though this is only about 150 pages long, Rothbard is able to go into detail about the theories surrounding fractional reserve banking and central banking, the specific history of central banking in America, and his plan to abolish the Fed. I think this is a fantastic short work; I only wish it was longer.
If Rothbard’s Austrian theories do not convince readers of the Fed’s shadiness, the mainstream banking industry’s overwhelming support of the Fed should do the trick.I would recommend “The Case Against the Fed” to anyone with an interest in banking, financial markets, or economics.
This books covers the creation of money and with it, its subjective value based on acceptance by the masses.
This is an excellent book for any layperson who is interested in understanding money's creation, fractional reserve banking, and the role the "Federal" "Reserve" plays in our economy.
However after stumbling on to Dr. Ron Paul and listening to his message, I realized that the "Fed" and the economics of this country play a paramount role in how we "behave" as a country.
I have read some other authors recommended by Dr. Paul, Hayek, Mises, etc and this is my first step into Rothbard's work.
In it, the public are stupid, there are no legitimate arguments for central banking, and the tiny subset of pro-fed lobbyists are either rich banking tycoons or their lackeys.
(some slight hyperbole, but you get my drift) Ultimately, the layers upon layers of innuendo are meaningless in the context of the supposed thesis of the book since the advocacy of Morgan, Rockefeller, et al says nothing about the utility of the central banking system.
At least the last three chapters return from the conspiracy abyss to provide some useful insight into the FDIC.If the book ended at page 70 I'd rate it four stars.
I read The Case Against the Fed, as it was selected as Book of the Month for February 2012 by people participating in http://freedombookclub.com I don't really like the Star rating system.
The book itself is pretty good, and provides a lot of background on the creation of the FED, the major players, the Morgans vs.
Also, the liquidation of the FED that is proposed as a prescriptive action is also quite illuminating.
I disagree with Rothbard that the United States should be on the gold standard.
For some that is gold, others, platinum, palladium, or copper, silver, or a cryptography based standard like bitcoin.
I'm sure this was a very informative, but it was also extremely dry.
Even though I haven't read something this boring, since my Palestinian Hamas textbook in my senior polsci research class, I was going to prove I could finish it.
It seemed to contradict the documentary, The Money Masters on some points.
Maybe they weren't in contraction on some points, I just was reading the book wrong, or maybe its been too long since I watched the movie.
If I was going to suggest one, I would suggest the documentary,  The Money Masters it was better at adding drama.
Although it was informative.
However, the conspiratorial tone of the book weakened his arguments and furthered the Statist cause against Liberalism Rothbard successfully showed us the symptoms of the disease but failed in his attempts to prove that the disease was brought forth by the conspiracy of a powerful few.
To accept Rothbard's view, one would have to accept that either these powerful few have so deep an understanding of our complex nature that they know exactly the right levers to manipulate to get the desired outcomes from the masses; or, they were able to obtain the complicity of the many to fool the most without tipping their hand - great feat to accomplish in either case and neither is likely.
Certainly, fewer have wondered what is the Fed and what causes inflation.This book rallies behind the forgotten, hard-money, political ideals of Jefferson and Jackson.
These ideals are in strong support of a gold standard and 100% reserve banking.
Banks and especially central banks are the sole cause of inflation.
I would recommend reading up to the point you understand fraction reserve banking (and why it is bad) and skip all of the Morgan/Rockefeller connections, It would have been nice if the book had touched on the Fed funds rate and how that fits into the picture as well....

Starts out making a great case against fractional reserve banking, then the middle is filled with some dry discussion of the people involved with the politics surrounding the creation of the Federal Reserve.
This book actually has made me curious and I intend to read one of the books cited, "The Triumph of Conservatism," which details the theory that the progressive era in America was really the business titans using their influence in government to protect their interests from competition.
The end of this book got back on track and finished with a strong case to end the Federal Reserve.
Definitely worth reading.

A friend recommended that I read this book after we had a short discussion about the Federal Reserve.
I only understood the Fed from a very general perspective, and with the current financial crisis fresh in mind, I decided to delve into it.
This book concludes with a detailed history of how the Federal Reserve was brought to life by those that would most benefit (in a true "fox guarding the henhouse" scenario), and how it has led to a long series of economic boom and bust cycles.
Murray Rothbard traces the history of the Federal Reserve and details how central banking works.
He acknowledges other accounts; but his account may be the most accessible one around.The political energy that needed to be amassed to create a central bank -- and the U.S. was the last country to adopt a central bank -- began decades beforehand.
There were so many actors that had a hand in the creation of it: from J.P. Morgan, various economists, the press, politicians.Murray also mentions that Wall Street and the banks agitated for the United States' entry into World War I and World War II.It's all really sinister stuff.

Quick and Interesting read. Rothbard covers the history of the Fed fairly concisely and in short order. The basic gist of the book as that te Federal Reserve really does not answer to anyone. With this being the case and a virtual license to make and lend money up to no limit aka "counterfeiting" they have caused inflation to go higher and higher. Murray contends that the only way to stagnate the inflation and put an end to the "chronic booms and busts" of credit is to get rid of the Fed entirely and return to the gold standard.
"The Fed wants people to use checks [debit] rather than cash as far as possible, so that it can generate bank credit inflation at a pace that it can control" -- what's this business?"And then, should any maverick skeptic arise, who ... tries to dig more deeply into the economic motivations at work, he will be quickly and brusquely dismissed as an 'extremist' (whether of Left or Right), a malcontent, and, most damning of all, a 'believer in the conspiracy theory of history'."
This was a brilliantly written and easy to understand book for those of us just dipping our toes into the Austrian School of Economics. The FED is the epitome of government mismanagement. Rothbard succinctly summarizes the history and practical application of money as a commodity and shows how the FED and commercial banks destroy its value ever single day. I wish this was required reading in my college economics classes.
A dry read...but interesting for money & banking or economics nerds. Fractional-reserve banking does appear inherently insolvent. However, it has pretty much worked for the past 70 years. The author, from a radically conservative school of economics, has some great points for further thought, particularly the Fed as the primary inflation-creator in our economy, but his suggestion that we return to the gold standard is unrealistic and extreme.
Very good insight on the beginning of the Fed. Many people rant about how bad the Fed is, but Rothbard finally explains how and why the Fed came to be. A must read for any economics student or anyone interested in the field.
Even though the author is against the Fed, he goes over the history of central banking in America, which is very interesting. Easy read too. I like that, an author who doesn't bore you to death with long stories about nothing.
Such needed wisdom for today's financial atrocities. In short, the American people have permitted legalized counterfeiting, and have permitted a few bankers to gain control of the nation's financial affairs. The Federal Reserve must be abolished immediately.
