https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15861491-the-fall-of-five
Was suspicious to me from the start.(I had a theory he was Setkarus Ra, but that theory got kicked away).Six. Still the same badass.Seven.
Are still Mogs.Overall, the book is AMAZING.
Mogadorians have feelings, yes (Adam is a vivid example of this.), but Setkarus Ra is heading in...another direction.Asking her if she read the letter would be asking her if she knew she was not chosen by the Lorien, that she ISN'T the so-called Number Ten, that she ISN'T held be the Loric charm that forces the Mogadorians to kill them in ONLY a certain order.So he knows she's not chosen.
Then we reunite the gang with the Goodes and Five in the same encounter.
The entire Garde working together kicking ass with a triple threat of humans.Life.
It all happened so fast.
The Mogs got to him before we did.
Keeping the bodies of fallen Garde would be a very Mog thing to do in my opinion.
And they put each of their minds into a true born Mog. Meaning there's a chance, such a slim chance, that the Garde may be able to reunite in its entirety.
Until book five we shall have to wait and see.
Now I want to develop some kind of time-travel Legacy to jump forward a whole year and see how awesome Book Four will be.Edit #1: And now the title has been confirmed.
No reason to think it won't be as stunning and beautiful as the previous covers in this series.Edit #2: And now the title has been un-confirmed.
Where is my copy of this book?!Edit #6: For the love of all things holy, NO BLOODY SPOILERS PLEASE!
Not until I have read the book will I add any such informations to this review.Edit #7: Spoiler embargo lifted!
“If I ever see you again, you traitorous bastard, I'll take out the other fucking eye!”  How could you do this to me ?? My heart was very sore that I wanted to sob quietly after I'd finished this book.I already knew that Pittacus Lore hardly disappointed me with his books. Likewise, The Fall of Five packed with actions and many riddles waiting to be solved. I still loved Number Nine, he's such a badass boy to me, he also made this book very good with his sense of humor. The Fall of Five was a t
Likewise, The Fall of Five packed with actions and many riddles waiting to be solved.
I still loved Number Nine, he's such a badass boy to me, he also made this book very good with his sense of humor.
I feel sorry for the characters that have to confront the disastrous situation like this; however, all of them tries to survive and get rid of Mogs while they're running away.
It was exciting and promising to me when I read all the action scenes and I still kept readling like a maniac.
John and Number Nine being together ?
Where The Rise of Nine was offensively terrible, The Fall of Five is bad in a different, almost academic way that is even worse than if it were simply about terrible characters doing nothing but showing the world how terrible they can be.After the events of The Rise of Nine, the numbers fall back to Nine's place in Chicago.
Between the extraordinarily predictable plot twist, the completely unlikeable characters, and the fact that the book doesn't really build up to anything, the climax of this book, a double action scene, is more boring than anything else.
But... but... *start whimpering*THIS IS NOT OK! THIS IS NOT ACCEPTABLE!!! One of my favorite characters... Pittacus Lore? HOW COULD YOU?He did not deserve that. I am just heartbroken right now.
and yeah and it would be nice if they defeat the Mogs...
Now I've read it so i'm just going to put my spoiler-filled thoughts here.
i'm very sad for marina but now she has a new power and is on a rampage!
very happy for sam and his father reuniting and how his dad freed him from the dungeon/gov't facility.
i'm pissed that 9 couldn't keep his stupid mouth shut but i feel like he'll take it worse than anyone.
i thought this was going to be the last book but all right, i guess i'll read the next one to find out what happens!
The Fall of Five is the fourth book in the Lorien Legacies by Pittacus Lore.Oh, it was awesome! The writing style has developed. I liked it better than the last three books. Also, it was filled with action, filled with drama, and filled with everything else that shouldn't be missed. Now I really, really, really, really want the fifth book, but I have to wait until next year.
One of the Garde dies and I guess after reading Allegiant, any death among characters will always be slightly more bearable.
(Sorry for the really lousy spoiler...just being bitter about Tris' death.)The story is both fun and not.
Fun, because the members of the Garde finally get together and not because just when the members of the Garde are starting to find strength in numbers, one of them dies.
And as usual, just like the first three books, I just enjoyed reading this- not much attachments to the characters or to the story, just plainly enjoying the entire story like watching a movie with a bag of popcorn.
I find that when a series has more than three books, I start having difficulty reviewing them.
It's not because the books are any less stellar than the previous ones in the series, it's that I start to become at a loss for what to say.
A couple of them I saw coming but a couple really threw me for a loop and had me that much more invested in the story!While I did love pretty much everything about this book, I think my favourite aspect would have to be seeing the Garde finally reunited and working together.
I also didn't like Sam as much in this book as I had in the others and that made me really.
I loved The Rise of Nine and the lack of Sam's presence was interesting to watch play out even though I missed him, but I'm not sure how well done his return was in The Fall of Five.
As much as I loved this book there isn't much else to say other than, "Why do these books always end so abruptly?" I keep thinking that there's more and then learning that its just 50 pages of lost files sneak peeks.
Heard a lot of good things about this one. It has a lot of action. But I thought the whole thing was a pretty obvious setup. I didn't find the ending much of a surprise at all. So I didn't love it but it was an okay read.
Γενικά αυτή η σειρά μου αρέσει αρκετά.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο όμως είναι αδύναμο.
Θα ήταν πολύ καλύτερο άμα δεν αναλωνόταν τόσο στο να μην γίνεται απολύτως τίποτα.
Στις περισσότερες σελίδες απλώς κάθονται και χαζολογούν και τσακώνονται ή απλώς συζητάνε ότι πρέπει να βρουν ένα σχέδιο και να ασχοληθούν με κάτι (έλεος)!!!
Πραγματικά δυνατή σκηνή του βιβλίου είναι μόνο μια και με εξαίρεση άλλη μια σκηνή, στο υπόλοιπο βιβλίο δεν γίνεται τίποτα!!!
Παρόλα αυτά για κάποιο λόγο μου άρεσε, είναι πολύ ευχάριστο και πολύ ευκολοδιάβαστο.
Επίσης μου άρεσε πολύ που η οπτική γωνία των αφηγητών δεν είναι μία αλλά εναλλάσσεται ανάμεσα στον Τζον, τον Σαμ και την Μαρίνα.
This installment was had some crazy reveals. A couple were predictable but that did not take away from the enjoyment of the read. I can't believe I only have a few more to read in the series. Bought the first book in the spinoff series this week so hoping it is as entertaining as this series has been so far!
OMFG!!!
So I found out the title for any of you out there that doesn't know: 'The Return Of Lorien'.
There's gonna be six books in the series.
I cannot wait...
August 2013!!!
How will I survive?
I'm gonna go to BEA just to pick up a review copy.
If I can't go, I will become an emo person and cut myself and die of blood loss.
And when the book is actually published, I will resurrect myself [just to read the book].
You will have a deadly mob chasing you if you don't publish sooner!UPDATE: It's called 'The Fall of Five'!
Four= Awesome! Might be Patticus Lore?Five= Hope he's aliveSix= Doing Great. Go out with Four! After all 6+4=10!Seven= MehEight= CoolNine= Lol too weird and funny Ten= So far okPatticus Lore= Where are you?Sam= where are you too hope your alive...Sarah= HATED her... Want Four just Ditch her. My prediction of how Sarah dies:Setresakus Ra will one of the the most dangerous weapon of humanity "Jealousy" to use Sarah... And I'll every guess what next :)AFTER READING FALL OF FIVE I REALIZE THAT EIGHT ALREADY PREDICTED HIS DEATH!
This book killed me. It literally ripped my heart out and then attempted to put it back in. JUST WHYYY
What an explosive installment to this series that just won't quit!In The Fall of Five, the Lorien Guards find number five and they hope to add more fuel to their arsenal as they train to fight the Mogadorians.
When the Guards practice together, they begin to forge a bond that they hope will be strong enough to fight their enemy.
But as with any bond… you're only as strong as your weakest link and when that link comes to you with a different agenda, it can cost them one of their own.As with the other installments, so much happened in this book that it was just one huge adrenaline pumping roll a coaster.
El libro tuvo algunas partes mas lentas de lo que estoy acostumbrada con esta increíble saga, pero la acción lo compensó todo. Sigo sin querer mucho a Cuatro y odiando a Sarah, me encantó leer tantos personajes y que la trama tuviera tantos saltos emocionales.Las últimas páginas fueron como para morirse, sentí demasiada ira y un desprecio absoluto por un personaje, pero estuvo increíble.Esperando ansiosa el siguiente libro. Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
Dear father Time,Pretty pretty please could you hurry up and be 2013 already?I really have a lot of books that are going to get published then... Or if you can't or won't, would you mind letting me into Pittacus Lore's mind while he's writing this book? I truly want to know how Setrakus-Ra loses the war since he has been winning some fights.Thank you!The most dedicated fan (and future girlfriend of Number Nine)
No compensation was given or taken to alter this review.His chest is shredded from where Eight slashed him, he’s got a fresh black eye, and I think I notice a trickle of blood from where I struck him with his staff.The Lorien Legacies has a little bit of everything for everyone; romance, action, sci-fi elements and a diverse collection of characters.
It's rather odd but I do believe the author succeeds at writing faster paced novels if anything.Overall, The Fall of Five was rather average for me.
I listened to the audiobook of this and I'm not real happy with the casting.
Four was all wrong.
I kind of wished this would have been a really epic trilogy instead of dragging out into so many books.
I think I'm done at this point.
Really good books, but nothing too exciting at this point.
Oh and I think the real turn off for me was the use of guns in this book.
I understand the humans need a way to defend themselves, but I feel like using guns is kind of cheating.
Have them kick some ass instead.
I love this series so much!
This book really allowed the characters to develop further.
It had less action, which provided a chance for the reader to get to know everyone better.
There are a lot of different important characters and I feel like they all have their own distinctive personalities.
There were also a lot of twists, which I loved!
The action scenes are written very well and I love how everything is explained.
This continues to be a very fast-paced story, but with the perfect amount of development to make you feel enveloped in it.
I know it was a good book because as soon as I finished it I cannot wait for the next book to come out.Since the last book all is going well for the Grades.
Sam and Sarah are learning to be better soldiers.
With everything going right for them you know something has to go wrong.We learn a little more about the Mogs and Lorien as well.
All in all a good enjoyable book.
Everytime they are left alone on the page I am crying out that one of the other characters will gatecrash and stop the oily grease that oozes from the book, but those characters do not arrive quickly enough sometimes.There is an interesting new dimension with the arrival on the scene of Adam, a good Mogadorian, who was involved in the murder of number three and I can see this does add a depth to the story which was missing before.
Post-read: (view spoiler)[ FIVE I WILL COME FOR YOU AND KILL YOU MYSELF YOU BASTARD!Eight! ;( YOU WERE MY FAVORITE! D:BK! D: I SWEAR IF YOU DIE ON METhe Search for Ella?ADAM YOU CAME TOO LATE (hide spoiler)]Heart-wrenchingly good. But so sad. D:Review to come!~~~ EDIT 7/23:  http://shelf-life.ew.com/2013/07/23/f...EXCERPT EXCERPT READ YOUR EXCERPT HERE! First 3 chapters for the price of free!! :D EDIT 6/26:  Sam. John (Four). Adam. Sarah. Six. Marina (Seven). Eight. Nine. Ella (Ten). Five. Malco
Post-read: (view spoiler)[ FIVE I WILL COME FOR YOU AND KILL YOU MYSELF YOU BASTARD!Eight!
D: I SWEAR IF YOU DIE ON METhe Search for Ella?ADAM YOU CAME TOO LATE  (hide spoiler)]Heart-wrenchingly good.
D:Review to come!~~~ EDIT 7/23:  http://shelf-life.ew.com/2013/07/23/f...EXCERPT EXCERPT READ YOUR EXCERPT HERE!
:D EDIT 6/26:  Sam. John (Four).
Sarah.
THIS IS JUST DRIVING ME MAD.In any case, Sarah please!
(view spoiler)[ HES NEITHER CAUSE HE"S A LITTLE PIECE OF SHAT  (hide spoiler)] EDIT 4/17:  COVER TIME IT LOOKS SO PROEDIT 3/28:  OFFICIAL DESCRIPTION HALLELUJAHBooks should be released faster.This should be one of them.
EDIT 2/20:  Title release: The Fall of Five!
I felt like the author made Six such a good character that everybody was rooting for Six and John.
In my opinion, she was one of the strongest characters.Throughout this whole thing, Ella is suffering from deabilitating nightmares that were never fully explained, I guess Pitt had to leave something to build upon for the next book.
Setrakus Ra is going to end up being Ella's grandfather who was the tenth elder of Lorien.
I feel like that's what's going to happen because that's the only way the remaining Garde stand a chance.
What I predict will happen:1. Malcolm and Sam Goode meet up with the Loric (see the lost files)2. They find Number 53. They start a search for Adamus (see the lost files)What I predict after the title:5 WILL DIE!!Just read the book... Wow! As of I have to wait for the next one for a full year!!
The lack of her POV hurts, and she's just indifferent towards John, mean to Sam, completely OOC constantly, especially with Sarah, and just seems like a different person than in the first two books.
The most likely way for this to happen would be through Sarah getting killed, but maybe Pittacus Lore will turn the love triangle on its head one more time even if she stays alive.
Esto al fin se vuelve a poner buenoSPOILERSAl fin llego Adam para unirse a los demás chicos.5 Te odio y espero que ardas en el infierno.[image error]Pobre Marina, no puedo esperar por ver en lo que se va a convertir.Mi pobre bebe 8 el no se lo merecía.Y necesito saber el misterio que hay alrededor de Elli.
