https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54697.The_End_of_the_Third_Age
Reason everyone should read this: it includes two versions of an unpublished Epilogue to LOTR that Tolkien wrote but was tragically talked out of including in the published book. It features Sam recounting things to his adorable Hobbit children, and answers lots of questions, and somehow makes the ending WAY LESS BITTERSWEET. <3 Seriously, just read this epilogue thing, even if you don't read the rest of this History of Middle-earth book.
The End of the Third Age: The History of The Lord of the Rings, Part Four (The History of Middle-earth, #9a), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
This volume brings to a close the story, save only for the Appendices - which are certainly worth reading.
The volume starts with Frodo and Sam having just crossed in Mordor and the quest is resolved fairly rapidly, occupying less than half the book.
The remainder of the book concerns the last events of the Third Age and the earliest events of the Fourth Age, in which the chapter "The Scouring of the Shire" plays an important part.
This chapter essentially brings the story full circle, in that it begins with hobbits and it ends with hobbits.It had certainly been far too long since I last read Lord of the Rings, and I have enjoyed rereading it immensely.
This book brings to a close the presentation of JRR Tolkien’s manuscripts and maps and drawings with which he produced the Lord of the Rings. It includes a charming, but unpublished, Epilogue involving Samwise Gamgee and his children. Since it would have been even more anticlimactic than the Scouring of the Shire already was, it’s probably just as well that it wasn’t published. But the whole series is worth the read for the insights into Tolkien’s original ideas and plans for his epic story.
I really loved this book. It retold the ending of the Lord of the Rings series as well as added some bonus epilogues not in the original story. Once again Christopher Tolkien did a wonderful job of explaining how his father J.R.R. Tolkien came up with the story in the notes following each chapter.
ce qui est inquiétant vu que l'on parle bien entendu d'une fiction et que ces même sources sont fictives elles aussi.
certaines fois, Christopher Tolkien s'interroge même pour savoir si telle source est plus valable que telle autre.
il en arrive donc à se poser la question de la validité de deux sources toutes aussi fictives l'une que l'autre.
Bon. Soit ce cher Petit est un peu surmené et prends sont travail de compilateur trop à cœur, soit il a définitivement perdu la raison.Donc même si vous êtes fan de Tolkien, je vous en prie ne prenez pas ce petit opus trop au sérieux.
Its most interesting chapter covers the writing of an unpublished Epilogue, in which Sam, at work writing in the Red Book of Westmarch, talks to his children about his adventures and what happened to the various characters after the story ended.
As with the previous three books in this series, anyone interested in Tolkien as a writer will get a lot out of these accounts of his books' history.
très intéressant à lire en complément du Seigneur des anneaux et surtout du Silmarillon, à lire si on est fan de l'univers de tolkien et qu'on aime en savoir plus sur certaines choses et certaines personnes;
SAURON DEFEATED; THE END OF THE THIRD AGE (THE HISTORY OF THE LORD OF THE RINGS PART FOUR): THE NOTION CLUB PAPERS {AND} THE DROWNING OF ANADUNE. Edited by Christopher Tolkien. The History of Middle-Earth, Vol. IX by J.R.R. Tolkien (1992)
Satisfying conclusion to my epic nerdy journey through the writing of the Lord of the Rings. Looking at the never-published epilogue was especially interesting. I love Tolkien!!
Le fait que ce soit inachevée, ben ça gâche un peu le plaisir... Pas le meilleur Tolkien que j' ai lu... C'est vraiment parce que je suis fan...
Publicación de material no terminado y que se descartó en la composición de El Silmarillión y El señor de los Anillos. De interés para fanáticos de Tolkien (como yo).
Recuerdo sobre todo lo sorprendente que fué leer sobre los istari y las palantiri
