https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/749869.Angelique_the_Road_to_Versailles
Το πρώτο βιβλίο δεν με είχε ενθουσιάσει μέχρι τα μισά. Το δεύτερο πραγματικά Ξετρελάθηκα. Η ιστορία της αγγελικής παρόλο που είναι πολύ ενδιαφέρον με στενοχωρεί που δεν υπάρχουν τα υπόλοιπα βιβλία. Κρίμα!!!!
Čitalac će tako bolje upoznati likove kojima je autorica u prvom dijelu posvetila samo nekoliko redaka, prelazeći žurno preko njih kao što plemićka kočija prolazi kroz tamnu bulonjsku šumu.Sama Anđelika se već u početku nalazi u sred groblja Sen Inosen u društvu kojim se jedna markiza ne može hvaliti na sav glas.
I read this book in 2 days - just like the first book.
Again as I did in my review for book one: what the heck is up with the covers of these books!?
Seriously well written, well researched, excellent historical fiction novels dressed in the cover of a 60's romance novel.
Angelique and the series is often compared to Forever Amber.
I read the latter and thought it was a great book, but Angelique is so much better!!
Angelique is completely and utterly different from Amber as female character.
Forever Amber is.
Good book, but Angelique is by far the more exceptional novel.
Řekla bych, že jsem jich četla víc, ale dle výpůjček jsem si v knihovně půjčila jen ty první dvě...Škoda, že si to vůbec nepamatuji. :/
What should I say about this book?1- the translation is terrible, the translator could have add some notes in some terminology used at that time. He didn't bother in doing that;2- in my opinion, there are better roman historiques than this one even if I haven't read the whole series.3- for those readers interested in reading good books of this genre, I do recommend authors like Juliette Benzoni, Michel Zévaco with his fabulous series Les Pardaillan series and Mireille Calmel.
I read the whole series, in Portuguese. They were 14 volumes, and it was a thrilling historical fiction.
I read all these over 40 years ago and loved them.
This is the second book in the Angelique series. I read this in high school many years ago.
Tohle je moje verze odpočinkové literatury, u které mohu vypnout mozek :)
Buyer Beware:Originally in France Angelique was printed as one massive book that was nearly 1200 pages.
In the USA, the first two parts were issued as Angelique (880 pp) , and the third part as Angelique and the King (500 pp).
In England, they were released as three separate books, each about 400 pages.
So if you own an American copy of Angelique and are looking for part 2, this is part of the book you already own.
I give the book itself a 5, but because there is a rel possibility that fans might get burnt by this edition, I have lowered the rating on the edition, solely for publishing issues.
Angelique: The Road to Versailles - ExSergeanne Golon - 1st in series / part IISeventeenth century Paris is a city of terror and despair for Angelique.
Penniless and deprived of her title, sworn to kill the men who had caused her husband's death, Angelique plunges into the underworld - to the squalid Court of Miracles, home of the villainous, the degraded and the deformed - a world of violence and lust.
Spurred by a relentless ambition, her only weapons her beauty and courage, Angelique begins the slow climb back to wealth and power; and always before her the glittering court of the Sun King himself...
The second book in this addective series.
The best historical novel of all times.
I did read it 5 times since 1972 and am just rereading it again.
This book started my interest for the French kings and I discovered the books thanks to the 5 Angelique movies from the sixties which I have watched countless times.Better than "Gone with the Wind" which I enjoyed reading.
And even a little bit better than "Forever Amber" by Kathleen Winsor which I highly recommend as well.Anne Golon has a wonderful way with words and the ability to recreate an era long gone.
One of the most compelling books I've read in 45 years and definitely among my 20 best books of all times.
2'5 el principio me ha parecido muy aburrido aunque al final se ha puesto interesante y como soy así de lista no me he dado cuenta de que era el segundo de la saga por lo que es normal que no me enterara de la mitad de las cosas. Creo que a este libro no le voy a hacer reseña porque no sería justo ya que si no me ha gustado es debido sobre todo a mi confusión por no haber leído antes el primero. Parezco tonta.
Me ha gustado mucho más que el primero, tengo que reconocer que a mi vena maruja le atraen más los amoríos de Angélica que la historia de su niñez, jejeje.Aunque ha habido algunas partes que me han aburrido un poco, como las que hablan sobre la alquimia y la transmutación del oro, el resto del libro lo compensa con creces.Esperemos no tener que esperar mucho a que vayan editando los demás libros ya que esta nueva edición íntegra me está gustando mucho más que la antigua.
Kniha splnila očekávání a opět mé díky patří autorce, autorům. Záleží na to, které máte vydání. Ćíst si o sosudu ženy, která přestože se propadá na společenské dno se nevzdává a bojuje. Oceňuji její charakter a povahové vlastnosti. Sice je to silná žena, ale má momenty, kdy se opravdu vymyká svému obvyklému chování. Sledovat psychologii postav, která tu není tak dobře popsána je však povznášející.
J'ai adoré ce livre, premièrement, parce qu'elle sort de son hébétude. Deuxièmement, elle fait tout pour s'en sortir. On reconnait le personnage des premiers romans et sa personnalité est beaucoup près de ce à quoi une héroïne est supposée être.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
I was bored pretty much throughout. Sometimes it maybe isn't a good idea to reread books one liked thirty years earlier...
I officially give up on the series, I can't with the melodrama, the gratuitous use of sex and the implausibilities and twisted plot that reeks of cheap melodrama.
Hrozně nudný díl o tom, jak se Angelika vdá a poznává svého manžela (který mě štve). Je to tak červená knihovna, že by to mohlo sloužit jako semafor.
Un cadre mythique pour ce roman où tout se trame, se joue et se déjoue.
<3 Quick re-read
tellement mieux que 50 nuances.
