https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/848023.Space_Cat
Totally charming text and illos, of how Flyball the cat went to the Moon, in 1951.
Man adopts him, names him "Flyball."Chap.
"Late from your leave *again*, Stone?" Flyball takes over the Rocket base with his super cat-powers!
"Ground duty was fine for those who liked it." Not for Flyball!
"Purr, Purr, I go up in a jet And I fly far faster than sound!"https://www.pinterest.com/pin/5478911...Love the little cat hammock!
Flyball patches the leak and saves the day!"The Moon is only the start, Says Flyball the FlierOh, no one ever can guess How far we can fly!"Need I say, if you love cats and love SF, this is the book for you ?Thanks to Montzalee for the reco!
Greatest book about a cat in space ever written.
I loved this book as a child, and the prospect of re-reading it as adult delights me! Off to make an Inter-Library Loan request right now!UPDATEStill awesome! My cats prefer The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath, though.
This edition was published in 1991 but I read it literally my lifetime ago. It was my favorite book at age 6 or 7. Was already hooked on sci fi and cats, of course. Wonderful illustrations. The respect shown Space Cat by the humans in the story puts humans in a wonderful light. Also loved Space Cat Meets Mars as well as Space Cat Visits Venus. Ruthven Todd, by the way, also wrote an excellent essay on William Blake which I read about 40 years later.
I read this book at age 7, after checking it out from the school library. This book, with its 3 companions (Space Cat Visits Venus, etc) are the first science fiction books I ever read, and I can trace my love of that genre to this series.
I absolutely loved these books as a kid. They were part of my early intro to scifi. I still loved them when I read them to my sons. The cat stows away with his astronaut owner on a trip on his rocket ship. Priceless.
One of the defining books of my life. Read it during the Johnson administration. Named one of our pet cats Flyball after it!
Truly delightful children's science fiction book that was a tremendous influence on me when I read it as a child. Tells the story of a stray young cat adopted by an astronaut, given the clever name Flyball, his adventures at the space center, and on an exciting journey to the moon.The Moon is only the start,Says Flyball the flier.We'll reach the stars yetGoing higher and higher.We'll voyage right round spaceTo the ends of the sky.Oh, no one ever can guessHow far we will fly!
Happy little quick-read, just love cats and space, so space cat is amazing, nicely written as if it to be 1969 all over again and with a pinch of science fiction and some moon mystery, owh yeah there are more volumes, happy days
Half of the idea is 1950s futurist science fiction (conceivable, though now known to be wrong), and half is ridiculous fantasy (inconceivable even then).
Princess Fuzzypants here: Space Cat was written and published back in 1952.
It tells the story of a kitten named Flyball who manages to adopt an astronaut- still called rocketeers back then- and ends up going to the moon with his human.
Flyball is a kitty I can love.
In fact, Flyball does save his human’s life.
Some humans accept the inevitable quicker than others but he wins over all of them.It is fascinating reading this 60 plus years after it was written.
This was long before any living creature was shot into space and nearly twenty years before the moon landing.
This was the very first book I remember reading, at age 6. It established a love for both science fiction and cats ever since.
I remember reading this book and loving it so much, I hid it in the shelves in our school library so that no one else can get it!
This is a book about a cat named Flyball that is always up for a good adventure. He is fascinated by space and ends up "working" at a space station and then eventually goes to the moon. This is a great introduction to science fiction for young readers. I loved Flyball and his conceited feline attitude! Thanks to NetGalley for a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
Back in print, this is a charming story of a cat that can't stop adventuring. The original 1950s illustrations are beautifully rendered and endearing. A book to treasure.
This was probably my very favorite book when I was six. I was into cats. The science in the book is probably pretty silly now but the book was written before all that space stuff even happened. And it was written for children. And it was about a cat.
I'm charmed by the thought of an explorer cat going to the moon with his pilot human.
And it was fascinating to see what people in 1952 thought would make sense as being on the moon.
Still a cute, quick read, and the illustrations are charming.
The jacket blurb says children will love it and that adults reading aloud will notice how it is a "slight take-off of the popular science fiction trend." The author and illustrator bios also comment directly on how there work makes the book marketable, which just feels so awkward now and is this fabulous time capsule piece that my book nerd heart enjoyed.
This is a wonderful children's book about a young cat who stows away on a rocket test flight and is then adopted by the astronaut pilot.
The astronaut then takes the cat on a trip to the moon.
Spacecat is written from the Cats point of view throughout.
This, along with the sequels (Space Cat Visits Mars, ...Visits to Venus, ...and the Kittens) were a literary staple for me in elementary school reading each 3 or 4 times.
I enjoyed them so much I obtained them for my own children to read.
Childhood favorites! I just reread these for the first time since 2nd-3rd grade. They are WONDERFUL. I had to order them through Inter-library loan. There was not one copy in the entire NYC library system. The writing is sophisticated and fun. Todd knows his cats. And the illustrations are wonderful.Treat yourself.
I found out about this vintage juvenile fiction quite by accident, but I am completely captivated. Not only does Space Cat kick some serious ass, he looks just like my cat, Darla, whom we now call Space Cat. Hard to find, long out of print, but super charming!! The 1950's-era depictions of space travel, rockets, and alien worlds are fantastic!
This was so adorable. And so interesting to read about what people thought might be on the moon before we actually went to the moon. Flyball is cute and smart and cat enough to be believable. Stumbled across this at the library when I was looking for a book by an author with my initials for one of the book challenges I'm doing and am so glad I did :)
I checked this book out from my school library many times as a kid. Finally got to read it again after checking it out from another library, and I was so happy that it held up. The writing is really fun, Flyball is a great cat character, and the illustrations are adorable!
This was one of my favorite books as a child. I've been thinking of it and wishing for it on and off for years. On a whim I searched for it again tonight on Goodreads, and here it is! It's nice, like seeing the face of an old friend.
LOVED the illustrations -- my favorite Paul Galdone I've ever seen -- but the story was meh.
I love Space Cat! Cute story and even cuter illustrations.
Rated 4.0 of 5In the first of this easy reader series, pilot Captain Fred Stone finds an adventurous feline he names Flyball.
The bubble-life-form manages to get Flyball's attention and the cat understands its intention.
Stone wakes up, recognizes Flyball as a hero and the bubbles as an intelligent life form.
Space Cat by Ruthven Todd is a simple but delightful very short chapter book for early readers.
The cat in space and his adventure there will capture the young readers interest.I received a digital copy of this book from the publisher, through Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review.
A Slightly Goofy Nostalgia Piece That Still AppealsEveryone has a few childhood books that still resonate, and lots of times those books involve animals, (especially dogs, cats, or horses), or space adventure and sci-fi.
After all, this is over 65 years old and fits in the same niche as "Twilight Zone" and liking Ike. Reading it again now I notice little bits of attitude and ways of describing things that just feel so 50's.But what about the appeal to a kid reader now?
But a kid reader now would have to be willing to overlook a lot, sort of the way we read Jules Verne.
I won’t give too much away, because it is an exciting and warm-hearted story, but suffice to say, it’s not very realistic.I know that science fiction is rarely accurate—that’s why I love it so much, because it lets you escape reality—but just remember that this book was written well before we made it to space.
No one knew what would be found on the moon, so the setting presented in this book was likely a very good guess as to what would be there.Space Cat is an enjoyable story for children and adults alike.
'Space Cat' by Ruthven Todd with illustrations by Paul Galdone is a reprint from the era before we actually went to the moon, but it's still a fun read with some great illustrations.A young cat, nicknamed Flyball by the pilots he meets, sneaks his way on to an airbase and on to a jet plane.
The science and principles don't hold up, but the story has enough imagination and wonder that it holds up as a pretty good read.I received a review copy of this ebook from Dover Publications and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
If I had encountered this as a child, I think I would have gone 5 stars.
As it is, I discovered the existence of this book on a t-shirt from Out of Print.
Charmed by the cover art, I borrowed it from my library's ebook collection.
It turns out to be an illustrated storybook, not a picture book, and so I was disappointed that there weren't more of the gorgeous illustrations.
It would make a good read-aloud for intermediate readers crossing over from predominantly illustrated texts to more text heavy chapter books.
The word choice is sophisticated enough to push average listeners' receptive vocabulary at that age.
