https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65910.The_Perfect_Husband
4.5/5 “Jim Beckett is a pure psychopath. Most of you out there probably think you know what that means. I'm here to tell you that you don't.” Oh my God! What did I just read?Lisa Gardner is a genius! This was such an intense and gripping suspense/thriller story with a touch of romance. It left me exhausted as if it drained all my energy away after I finished it. The Perfect Husband gave me chills from the very start and I felt more and more terrified of what would happen to Tess and her daughter
The Perfect Husband gave me chills from the very start and I felt more and more terrified of what would happen to Tess and her daughter as I went further into the book.
During the last 30% of the book, I felt like my heart thumping out of my chest.
So much happened near the end and it was full of action and excitement that I wasn’t able to put it down until I finished.Just thinking about this psycho killer and what he did still gives me goosebumps even now.
On the other hand, deep down, like any person, he has a need for limits.
Disclaimer: This is the second Lisa Gardner book I have read.
The previous book of hers I've read was written much later, and I enjoyed that book.
In many cases, this book was not a mystery or suspense story, but seemed more like a romance or soft porn book.
I struggled to finish reading it.
I found the plot and characters unbelievable, and I knew how the book will end from page one.
Lisa Gardner is generally a good writer, so I'd skip this book and start with a later entry.
Tess Williams thought she was marrying the man of her dreams.
It was after the birth of their daughter Samantha, that Jim went back to his old loving self, but it didn't last long and things were back to the way they were.After being married for two years things become worse when, Jim turned into a psychopath and murders ten women over sixteen months.
She wants him to train her and teach her everything he knows so by the end of it she'll know how to defend herself, but will this be enough to keep her alive from a psychopath like Jim Beckett?
Well, if this had been my first Lisa Gardner book, I guarantee it would have been my last.
It fulfilled my worst suspicions about a much more recent book, which actually was pretty good.
If you're a fan of more recent Gardner books, don't read this one!
The plot is weak, the characters are shallow and predictable, the dialog is trite, and the romance is just plain stupid.
But, you can see faint glimmers of the Lisa Gardner to come.
Fortunately, though the learning curve was steep, Gardner has become a pretty good writer in this decade.
This was harder to rate I was thinking 3.5 *rating but gave it a four as did enjoy the characters in
I haven't read it in a few years now so my feelings are not as crystal clear and precise as they would be were they all fresh and new, so bear with me!Tess had the perfect life: She was young, in love and married to one of the handsomest men she had ever seen....
The book takes place after Tess has helped put Jim behind bars for the savage murder of ten women...
And although it does have a seek-out-a-stranger-for-help thing I'm not a fan of, it has a very powerful message: Just because he looks like this: Does NOT mean that he is incapable of malice, abuse or murder!Be SMART, ladies!
“Lock your closets.” That’s the best defense against this serial killer who is brutally bashing young, blonde women?The Perfect Husband by Lisa Gardner is billed as “Quincy and Rainie #1” with FBI profiler Pierce Quincy – but where’s Officer Rainie Connor?
Tess was married to Jim Beckett, and she knows who his final target will be.
JT Dillon is in the midst of his annual tequila bender when Tess shows up at his home in Arizona expecting the former mercenary to train her.
I think the author gets a bit carried away with the sexual relationship between JT and Tess, but I do like most of the character development in this story.
Tess is the wife who was brutalized most of her young life not only by her sadistic bastard of a husband Beckett, but her father as well.
J.T. is the former marine/mercenary who is at the end of his rope and trying hard to make things right with his FBI sister Marion who has a extremely hard past that she refuses to speak to him about.
The rest of the supporting cast is pretty decent, and I absolutely adore Lisa Gardner's ability to put you in the story and put some truth behind the things that are happening to her characters.
While I know that it's true that victims of abuse tend to gravitate towards men who will continue that abuse, I had hoped that in a "fictional novel" Tess would have made a stronger choice, or more importantly, that this author would have made a more respectable character of J.T. 2.
I will never know why this author brought Marion, J.T.'s sister, into the story line.
All the issues with J.T.'s family...ie, Marion and their abusive father, got in the way of the story I really cared about...Tess and her daughter.
This book would've been better with no romance theme.
Suspense C+ Romance F
It was okay and I will probably still read the other books in the series but if I had started with this I probably would not have that interest.Tess Williams thought she married the perfect man.
As soon as they were married Tess learned that Jim Beckett was not as perfect as he appeared.
Tess saw Jim's dark side and started gathering evidence which she took to the police.
Evidence that helped convict him of murdering ten women and sent to a maximum security prison.Jim Beckett vowed that Tess would pay and now he has escaped.
Tess is not going to hide or depend on police protection.
Is this supposed to be a suspense thriller? Okay. Technically it was. But for me it was an awesome romance story and a female empowerment story to boot. Loved JT and Tess. Loved them together. I loved how Tess went from mild and meek to kickbutt heroine. Did not love psychopathic ex-husband. But it was worth reading for the fantastic love story (okay I guess I missed the point of this book, didn't I?).
I binge read this one. It was so good! The characters were awesome. The bad guy husband was beyond demented and cruel. Definitely gonna read more of this series.
He’s tortured by his past and full of self-pity and he’s constantly thinking of - his abusive father, the colonel - his sister Marion, who he feels he didn’t protect from the colonel - his dead wife and kid.
When he’s not thinking about them, it’s about how much he wants his next drink so he can fall into a drunken stupor and forget about his miserable life.This book is more like a depressing dysfunctional family drama (J.T.’s family) than the suspense book I thought it would be.
This book was too slow-moving and it could have used more action and suspense than it provided.
I grabbed this to read on the plane on my trip to Booktopia Bellingham as I wanted a book that was "light".
I don't know if I've read any other Gardner books but found both the violence and sex more graphic than I was expecting.
Good edge of your seat thriller, with great character development and a plot about domestic violence and control that is all too true.
Without mentioning names I saw no purpose to one character's demise and I think this distracted from the whole of the story.
I definitely going to give another of Gardner's books a try as this is my type of thriller reading.
I have loved the other books by her (alone, gone, killing hour), but i really didn't like this one.The story line is very unrealistic and the characters are not likable.The story centers around "tess" Her husband, is a psychopath who kills many people, he gets arrested, breaks out of prison, and comes back for her and her daughter.That plot sounds great, but the storyline was very bad.Tess goes to a mercenary for help (JT).
The book was just not a good read.
I didn't like reading about JT; the book should have centered around Tess and her killer husband.
He loved Sam, there was no doubt about that...but then it started again...Two years after their marriage, Tess helped put him behind bars for murdering ten women.
Tess ran, and after a lifetime of fear, she needed help..she wasn't strong enough, or tough enough to make a difference.
The horror of what Jim Beckett has done, and will do to reach his goal, which is kill Tess, will have you unable to put this book down until the very last page!Lisa Gardner has the ability to write the most intense, terrifying tales of psychopathic horror around!
J.T. was really over the top as a character; he belonged in a Sandra Brown novel. I didn't really care for him, so this kept the book from a 4-star rating. Was it the annual five-day drinking binges, the masochistic behavior such as stubbing a cigarette onto his arm, or the totally unrealistic relationship that developed between him and Tess? It's hard to say. I'm just glad that Gardner's writing has improved since this.
(To be fair, I’ve only actually ever read three romance novels in my life, so I understand that my assessment is based on a very small study sample.) 2) While I don’t think of myself as sexist, some of what I may say in this review may sound sexist.
Here’s one problem I have with the book: Beneath the novel’s intense cat-and-mouse plot, graphic murder scenes, and top-notch police procedural, Gardner has secretly written a romance novel.Ugh.Tess and Dillon react to each other like fire and gasoline.
In actuality, it’s probably not.Now, either there are a lot of women out there who secretly harbor rape fantasies, which is why books and authors like this become insanely popular, or there is something else going on.
Tess Williams, after a dismal childhood, found herself married to the "perfect husband" who turned out to be her biggest nightmare.
After discovering he was responsible for the murder of at least ten women, Tess helped in his capture.
This is a gritty story with a truly dispicable adversary in Jim Beckett, Tess' ex-husband.
Tess is almost a tragic figure if not for the burning drive to protect her daughter.
The one weakness I found in the story was the romance between J.
Though the romance has some weaknesses, the strength of the story is in the suspense surrounding Jim Beckett.
This is my favorite Lisa Gardner book from the beginning of her suspense writing career. There are a few things that are difficult to believe (and I won’t mention specifically to avoid giving any spoilers), but if you ignore the unrealistic bits, it’s a funny, fast-paced book. There are some parts I had to speed read because I was so concerned with what was going to happen—the mark of a good suspense novel!
Holy CRAP! Pretty much my thoughts as I read this book. It spooked the hell out of me. I liked it...but really had to sleep with the lights on afterward. Yes I am a bit of a chicken but yeah good book, I thought the story behind it was very creepy but it held my attention like no other. I had to keep going to find out what would happen next scared or not! If you like a good suspenseful book with psychos and ghosts and all things just creepy this is it!
A true thiller....just when you think you have it figured out....wham! I love her books for great suspense and awesome stories. The twists are crazy! I can usually figure out suspense novels pretty quickly...but hers -- not so much. Love it.
My first Lisa Gardner novel-- and I'm hooked on her writing! Loved every page!
"Someday soon he would kill her. He'd promised to cut out her still-beating heart, and he always did what he said." If only this book were as interesting and thrilling as the above quote. Well, friends....I WAS LIED TO.This book is a romantic suspense novel devoid of all the suspense and all of the romance. Which is kind of like Winnie the Pooh saying that his favorite sandwich is peanut butter and honey (without the peanut butter).Now, I wouldn't normally have a problem with this if not for tw
But son, I DON'T HAVE TIME FOR YOUR TOXIC MASCULINITY.The ironic thing about this is that the female main character is referred to him by someone so he can teach her how to protect herself from said abusive ex-husband (who also happens to be a serial killer).
It's bad enough that this book didn't have any mystery to it at all.
But coupled with the fact that the main character falls in love with a toxic male after trying desperately to escape a relationship with another equally toxic male killed the book entirely.
Jim swore he'd kill his 'perfect wife' for helping the police putting him, Jim Beckett perfection personified (especially in his killing), onto death row.
But, cool, aloof Marion may have screwed up-she's discovered Tess' true identity and Beckett may already know where she is.
J.T. has just finished his annual drinking binge to mark the anniversary of his 'perfect' wife.
She's been the good girl and good wife and the perfect FBI agent.
She must not disappoint the Colonel, but she must help save Tess from the worst serial killer, FBI profiler Quinn has seen.
From what I gather, I really doubt that I actually *have* to read them all, but I'm anal retentive like that, and TPH wasn't impossible to get through.
It actually turns out that I'd read this book a few years ago.
Tess could have been anybody; in my opinion, she was a little too doe-eyed, especially in regards to J.T., than what you would have expected in someone who had been through all she had.I feel that Marion and Jim were the strongest characters in this novel.
With her daughter Samantha in a safe house Tess convinced the police will not be the best option for protection goes to ex marine J.T. to help her face her fears by teaching her how to defend herself.J.T. has demons of his own to contend with with the death of his abusive father and the denial from his little sis Marion about what happened growing up.
Will Tess and J.T. be able to stop Jim from ending what he set out to do?The Perfect husband was another quality read from one of the great crime writers of our time in Lisa Gardner.
Lately I have been reading a lot of books about abusive husbands and their now ex-wives trying to escape them.
This story is all about Tess, JT (a man Tess has hired to train her) and crazy psychopath ex-husband Jim. I liked Tess, I tolerated JT and was totally freaked out by Jim. I was on the edge of my seat the entire time just waiting to see what Jim would do next.
I would of liked more details about how Tess figured out who Jim really was and how they took him down.
Can't wait to see what the rest of the series is like!
I've done my Gardner reads all wrong.
Or maybe it was meant to be?It began with reading book eight in her DD Warren series first, then backtracking through the proper order.
Here we meet his tough as nails wife (well, by the end of it, at least) Tess and see what drove them together : answer?
Her serial killer ex-husband.
#sorrynotsorry THE PERFECT HUSBAND was a wild ride.
probably Gardner's sexiest, actually, at least so far.
I am such Lisa Gardner trash at this point and I'm not even ashamed of the fact that I have the whole Quincy & Rainie series lined up to binge.
This book was really creepy! Can you imagine being married and having a kid with a man who murdered ten women? This book tells one of the most shocking stories I've ever read in a well-detailed and vivid style, it almost felt real instead of fiction. But it isn't all gloom and doom, it also has some themes of romance, empowerment and friendship in the book as well. :)
