https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2176.Flaubert_s_Parrot
He could have written many more works, but given his highly engaged way of labouring over his novels, and the huge amount of research he undertook for each, these ghosts of ideas had to remain just as shadows of never-to-be books.WHY the PARROT?What I think Barnes does not address is why Flaubert had a stuffed parrot on his desk?
One can tell that Barnes had fun writing this alternative biography of the famous French writer, using his stuffed parrot to concoct a colorful tapestry of interspersed anecdotes with metaliterary intention, ironic finesse and the savoir faire of a virtuous ventriloquist.The fictitious narrator Doctor Geoffrey Braithwaite scrutinizes the correspondence between Flaubert and his net of acquaintances and a sample of pompous academic miscellania to (mis-)construct his own theories about the writer’s life, or rather, he presents the evidence and allows the reader to make his own assumptions in quite a burlesque style.The result of this rigorous exploration is the vivid image of an eccentric, stubborn, contradictory, scatological, decadent but fiercely intelligent artist, hungry for the hedonistic pleasures of life but sceptic about its purpose.
For me however, JB is hintingly present all the time, and I kept thinking that GB's obsession with adulterous wives was really JB's obsession (there is more attention given to Emma Bovary in this book than to any of Gustave Flaubert's other characters (and more attention given to her 'adulterous' acts than to any other aspect of her story (plus, the words 'corruption' and 'vile' are used in association with Emma's 'adultery' which made me wonder why, when women take lovers, they are immediately branded as adulterers whereas when men take lovers, it is mostly described as infidelity or simply an affair?))).Geoffrey B is a doctor however, so the few times he mentioned that, I remembered that he wasn't Julien B who has never been a doctor as far as I know (but that may be a misconception on my part - a mistaken assumption that this author isn't also a doctor (after all, the writer Arthur Conan Doyle, about whom JB has also written, was a doctor)).
You are being shown celestial things and "the sky is a theater of possibilities" (83)!"Flaubert's Parrot," I shit you not, LITERALLY grabs the reader by the lapels and yells brilliant miscellany right at his face.
This, to my knowledge, is the first novel to EVER do this--to affect the brain and heart and lungs alike.And what, finally is Flaubert's Parrot?
(Shivers down the back...)EXTRA:Here are just two of my favorite things maestro Flaubert once wrote:(and of course, they deal with class & society:)"The whole dream of democracy is to raise the proletariat to the level of stupidity attained by the bourgeoisie."and"The greatest patriotism is to tell your country when it is behaving dishonorably, foolishly, viciously."...Thanks Barnes-dude.
Geoffrey Braithwaite, a doctor with three children, takes a vacation to Rouen in France to pay homage to his literary hero, Gustave Flaubert, most famously known for his novel Madame Bovary.
But then the aim of Un Coeur simple is quite elsewhere: the parrot is a perfect and controlled example of the Flaubertian grotesque.While in a bookstore, Dr. Braithwaite hears, through a fellow named Ed Winterton, of the existence of letters between Flaubert and a governess who had left France to live in England.
We get all the usual biographical info on Flaubert we expect, but it’s organized in chapters such as one on the various colors of Madame Bovary’s eyes in the novel.
A chapter titled “The Train-Spotter’s Guide to Flaubert” features Flaubert’s thoughts on trains, how they figured in his novels, and one house that he lived in, visible from the tracks.
“The Flaubert Bestiary” chapter features his pets, animals in is stories, and how they were connected to animals he owned, and the parrot!
Flaubert at times claimed he was annoyed at the overbearing fame of Madame Bovary that overshadowed his other work.
I get the feeling that while Julian Barnes was stalking his favourite author, he found so many oddities and pleasing coincidences (les perroquets !) that he kept a journal entitled “Cool shit I know about Flaubert and other musings” which became this book.The obsession rubs off.
They set more store by the crutches than the legs.” - Gustave Flaubert (via Julian Barnes, now via me in a goodreads review you are now reading)-------“Why does writing make us chase the writer?
What we get, though, isn't really much of a biography at all, more the musings of a man called Geoffrey Braithwaite, who has a long-term obsession with the Frenchman and would like to write the definitive life, but finds himself overwhelmed by the wealth of material, none of which is to be trusted.
When writing the biography of a writer, is his work a legitimate source of material to make assumptions about the man, even if he does famously, infamously say "Madame Bovary, c'est moi"?
So, it's not about parrots, or Flaubert, but about biographies and how to write them?
Is it splendid, or stupid, to take life seriously? When I began listening to this audiobook, I wasn't in the right state of mind, as I was distracted and couldn't concentrate, so I was about to give up on it. I'm glad that I stuck it out, because, it turned out to be brilliant, delightful, surprising, and altogether original. I shouldn't be surprised, after all, the previous six Barnes books I listened to this year were of the highest quality - always extremely eloquent. I am awed by Barnes' br
I shouldn't be surprised, after all, the previous six Barnes books I listened to this year were of the highest quality - always extremely eloquent.
It is mainly about Flaubert (I knew almost nothing about the famous French writer, although I promised myself that this is the year I finally read Madame Bovary).
It should be interesting to find out how all the things I've learnt about Flaubert and Madame Bovary will affect/influence my reading of his masterpiece.
My love affair with Barnes continues and it stays interesting and challenging - but in a good kind of way.NB: Richard Morant, the narrator of this audiobook, was excellent.
I'm just annoyingly, irritatingly going to tell you that I thought this was like a gloved hand on the back of your neck which inches its way round to your windpipe.
What happens is that a dull kind of guy mooches about France collecting biographical data about the sainted Flaubert, one of the handful of authors about Not One Bad Word Has Ever Been Spoken.
As he muses and mumbles and huffs and puffs his way about France, gradually little fragments of his own life bob to the surface and are quickly shoved back down.
مقدمهاینید استارکی، منتقد ادبی ایرلندی در بررسیهایی که بر روی «مادام بوواری» انجام داده به این نتیجه رسیده که فلوبر چشمان اما بوواری را یک جا قهوهای، یک جا قیرگون و جایی دیگر آبی توصیف میکند. اما به قول راوی کتاب این موضوع چقدر اهمیت دارد؟ بله! ما از فلوبر دلخور میشویم که با وجود آن تیزبینی، چشمان شخصیت اصلی را چند رنگ توصیف کرده اما دلخوریمان زیاد دوام نمیآورد چون شیفتگی ما نسبت به یک رماننویس آنقدر زیاد هست که حتی این اشتباهات را بپوشاند پس مجبوریم برای این آزردگی نه از نویسندهی محبوبمان که از
اگر من بدانم که برتراند راسل چهار بار ازدواج کرده دیگر کتاب‌هایش را نمی‌خوانم و به دیدگاهش شک می‌کنم؟ راستش عده‌ای واقعاً همین‌طورند و من مجبور شدم گروه تلگرامی‌شان را به‌خاطر این شیوه‌ی تفکر ترک کنم.اما این کتاب؛ با توجه به آن‌چه نوشتم باید این سؤال را پرسید که پس چرا این کتاب برایم جذاب بوده؟ خب راستش کتاب همان اندازه زندگی‌نگاره‌ای از فلوبر است که رمانی‌ست با طنزی ظریف و درگیری‌های راوی با خودش، زندگی‌اش و اندکی هم با طوطی‌هایی که می‌توانند طوطی فلوبر باشند یا نباشد.
Οι γνώσεις μου γύρω απο τον Φλωμπερ περιοριζονται στην Μανταμ Μποβαρυ που μου άφησε χλιαρές εντυπώσεις και στην Αισθητική Αγωγή που μετά τις 10 πρώτες σελίδες άφησα στην άκρη για όποτε.
Έμαθα φυσικά κάποιες πληροφορίες για την ζωή του Φλωμπερ (αληθινές ή όχι δεν μπορώ να πω) , αλλά θα μπορούσα να συνεχίσω την ζωή μου και χωρίς αυτές για να είμαι ειλικρινής.Το βιβλίο έχει μεγάλα σκαμπανευασματα απο άποψη ενδιαφέροντος κάτι που με εκνεύρισε γιατί δεν ήξερα αν έπρεπε να το παρατήσω ή όχι.
Και το μόνο που θα κρατήσω απο όλο το βιβλίο μεταξύ μας.
There's something about Barnes's prose that just feels so flawless.
Rarely do I trip on an ill-suited word or poorly formed sentence.
Flaubert's Parrot was a pleasure to read for its use of language, for its playful tone, and for its exhaustively researched expedition through literary history.
The central conceit regarding obsession (though the thread was expertly woven into the fabric of the novel) was not entirely successful: one is left impressed with the effort, but not particularly moved by it.
Nonetheless, Flaubert's Parrot, for all its gimmickry and pretentiousness is really quite brilliant.
It is serious, literary, postmodernist, and deeply biographical, while at the same time managing to be genuinely funny, offbeat and entertaining.
Lepo je i nafilovao priču vazda zabavnim trivijalnostima, ali mi se čini da je od želje da čitaocu bude udobno i da ga uveri da to o čemu on piše može baš svako da ukapira samo ako se malo potrudi – upao u dosadu.Zbog (pametne) isprepletanosti svega i svačega sa svim i svačim, sumnjam da je Barns ovo napisao na brzinu.
S druge strane, mislim da je imao kapaciteta da se reši tih rupa zbog kojih ovo nije zabavno čitanje u meri u kojoj je moglo da bude da bih mu dala višu ocenu.
G. BallardIn Custody by Anita DesaiHotel du Lac by Anita BrooknerAccording to Mark by Penelope LivelySmall by David LodgeAnd  Anita Brookner's jaw-droppingly boring book, pipped Barnes, Ballard & Desai to the post!The same thing happened again in 1998 & 2005, but at least he lost to somewhat good books: Amsterdam & The Sea. And finally Barnes was given a sort of life-time Booker for the masterful The Sense of an Ending in 2011.What do they say–All things come to those....only I don't think he really waited/cared anymore.Flaubert's Parrot was Barnes' breakthrough book: part biography, part fiction, part lit-crit, part homage, part satire; it's a crazy, whimsical, non-linear, non-conventional, postmodernist take on, on what?What's the story, the theme, the plot?In the words of the elderly narrator Geoffrey Braithwaite, a widowed, retired English doctor & an amateur Flaubert enthusiast: Three stories contend within me.
It is still worth reading - he is still one of my favourite authors - it is just that it is missing something, unlike the other novels by him which I don't think are lacking in anything at all.
And so then you are expected to think of all of the things that parrots stand for - think voices, think repetition, think someone who speaks for some one else - it isn't too hard to make the connection that the guy telling this story - a Flaubert obsessive - is obviously a major candidate for the parrot in question.
طوطی فلوبر کتابی است درخشان که نه میشود گفت رمان است و نه میشود گفت نیست.
نه میشود گفت نقد ادبی است و نه میشود گفت نیست.
ظاهرا آن را در رده «رمانهای پستمدرن» طبقهبندی میکنند و خیلیها آن را از بهترین نمونههای این نوع رمان میدانند.
شخصیت اصلی کتاب یک منتقد معمولی انگلیسی است که درباره یک نکته پیشپاافتاده در زندگی گوستاو فلوبر تحقیق میکند و از این راه جنبههای مختلف زندگی فلوبر را روایت میکند.
در عین حال هم زندگینامه فلوبر است و هم نیست.
این را هم بگویم که برای لذت بردن از کتاب نیازی نیست کتابهای فل
طوطی فلوبر کتابی است درخشان که نه می‌شود گفت رمان است و نه می‌شود گفت نیست.
این را هم بگویم که برای لذت بردن از کتاب نیازی نیست کتاب‌های فلوبر را خوانده باشید (من خودم فقط «تربیت احساسات» را خوانده‌ام)، گرچه طبعا هرچه بیشتر از او خوانده باشید کتاب برایتان جالب‌تر خواهد بود.ققط حواستان باشد که طوطی فلوبر ربطی به کتاب‌های دیگر بارنز که به فارسی ترجمه شده (هیاهوی زمان و درک یک پایان) ندارد و فضایش به‌کل متفاوت است، گرچه نویسنده‌اش همان نابغه است و نبوغش در این کتاب حتی بیشتر از آن دو کتاب هویداست.
جفری بریث ویت (راویِ رمان) به هنگام بازدید از موزه فلوبر دو طوطی می بیند و کنجکاوی اش برای یافتنِ طوطیِ امانت گرفته شده فلوبر، بهانه ای می شود برای ورود به زندگی فلوبر و نویسنده چندان به او نزدیک می شود که جزئیات زندگی این نویسنده شهیر فرانسوی از چشمان تیزبین جفری دور نمی ماند.جولین بارنز ساختارِ بدیع و نسبتا بکر رمانش را از همان صفحات آغازین به مخاطب می نمایاند.
(تنها در فصل پایانی رمان است که یاد و نام طوطی احیا می شود) راویِ (چه بسا نویسنده رمان) فلوبر شناس، فلوبر را در وسط گود می نشاند و دست نوشته هایش اعم از رمان و نامه ها را روی زمین پخش می کند و با دقتی مثال زدنی نکات ریز و مهمی از زندگی فلوبر بیرون می کشد.
Sometimes I worry about becoming a commuter zombie (*sad face*).As I progressed through Flauberts Parrot I learned that in fact, Gustave Flaubert hated trains.
Thus, after learning that dear old Gustave hated the train I took a kind of sly pleasure reading this on the 07.38 London to Edinburgh commuter.
I did not take sly pleasure in reading Flaubert's Parrot however, because it felt a little bit like a pointless exercise, 1001 books box ticking exercise aside.
Maybe I have already become a commuter drone but this didn't work for me and if I wanted to learn more about Gustave Flaubert then there are probably more direct ways of doing so.
This book seems to be about the different perspectives one can have on life and reality.
Another fascinating chapter retells the love affair between Flaubert and the poet Louise Colet from a reimagined Colet's point of view; Flaubert comes out with some of his shine removed at the end of this spirited monologue.In a series of ramblings which seem random only on the surface, Barnes' witty yet eccentric doctor turned detective shows us an alternative way of reading life and literature.
Existence can seem to be one way, but if you look at it from a different angle, or from someone else's perspective, you may discover things of which you had no idea before.
A little too Radio 4 for my liking: pseudo-scholarly musings on Gustave Flaubert, cosier than a cushioned futon in the House of Lords.
Mostly diverting and amusing: if a shade pompous and niche (i.e. you don’t have to have read Flaubert to read this, but it helps).
Nothing more to add, particularly.
Except this edition was so tiny I had to shrink my hands to hold it.
Thanks, Picador.
Did you read about my Guinness World Record in the paper the other day?
I am the first man to listen to Tubular Bells the whole way through without stabbing the stereo!
What a man!
Guy gets talking to this doctor on a ferry trip; the doctor just can't understand why his wife killed herself.Flaubert sometimes used to refer to himself as "Gourstave". Barnes translates this as "Flau-bear".And more Flaubert-related musings, vaguely wrapped up as a postmodernist novel. If you're a Madame Bovary fan, you may like it.
This is a lot more literary as this dwells solely on the life of Gustave Flaubert (1821-1880) who obviously is a favorite of Julian Barnes while "Sense" is about a story of a non-communicative man and ends up as a loser.
Especially if the story is as interesting as a life of an author who gave us deathless classics that everyone loves like Madame Bovary (also 4 stars).So, this is my simple take about this wonderful book: this is a fan non- fic book.
This book "Flaubert's Parrot" does not add anything to what is in the Wiki or some other sites but the prose of Barnes is something that I would not find anything faulty not to like.
The result is creative, fascinating, and wonderfully entertaining.The narrator of the work is one Geoffrey Braithwaite, a retired physician with a avocational passion for Flaubert, his life and works.
Barnes uses this device to explore the relationship between a work of art and the life of the artist, to reflect upon the validity of the assertion that art imitates life and of the assertion that knowledge of the writer’s life can inform the appreciation of the novel.
But if you are fascinated by the craft of writing, by the ambiguities of fiction compared with “real life,” by how our own lives and stories are never entirely clear to either ourselves or others, you may well find this book much to your taste.
Witty and ingenious as no biography has ever been.
I am not ready yet (not sure if I’ll ever be) to write a review, but I can say however: I enjoyed reading this book a lot.
This is Barnes at his best: a light read, but full of quotes I could not help but write down, a full of humor read, a highly enjoyable one thanks to the nicely crafted, yet so natural phrases and thanks to the unexpected biographical details about Flaubert.
If all biographies were like this one, we’d definitely be as fond of reading them as of reading novels.
An entertaining, interesting book. Not only is Barnes clever, he's chuckle-out loud funny in some places, as in the section on the types of books the narrator thinks should not be written. The chapter called "Pure Story" is both beautifully written and heartbreaking.
Barnes himself provides the answer:"(I)f you love a writer, if you depend upon the drip-feed of his intelligence, if you want to pursue him and find him--despite edicts to the contrary--then it's impossible to know too much."He even ruminated, and devoted an entire chapter (the 9th), on the books Flaubert could have written, the things he could have done, or maybe did but have remained hidden--"It is not just the life that we know.
Postmodern: replete with literary metafiction, ordered lists, chronologies, conscious ironies, and other bullshit. All of this is executed quite well, though. Pleasing to the forebrain.
Flaubert’s Parrot is the fictional literary theory of protagonist Geoffrey Braithwaite, retired doctor and self-proclaimed amateur Flaubert scholar.
You really get a sense of the character’s passion for literature and his investment in Flaubert’s life; also, his frustration with critics and general obsession with the topic.
Although factual in context, Braithwaite takes liberty when discussing Flaubert’s relationships and challenges Flaubert's title of "the Hermit of Croisset." Throughout the story, the reader also gets a sense of Braithwaite’s personal life, suffering from his wife’s infidelity and later death.
Books make sense of life.
There’s Ishmael, Humbert, Hadrian, and the narrators of Reader’s Block and Wittgenstein’s Mistress, anticipation of whom makes me drool—though the perfection of the voice may not be fictional at all, it may be Flaubert’s letters, especially those addressed to his mistress Louise Colet.
Flaubert’s side of the correspondence is a fascinating compound of fantasy, reminiscence, obscenity and criticism; and for me, Carmen lost priority after I recently read what Henry James said about Mérimée’s letters to his mistress: We owe our knowledge of these letters to the lady herself, who has published them with a frankness more common in France than among ourselves.
