https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232965.Paper_Moon
This is an amazing and nostalgic thrill-ride of a book, full of 1970's psychedelic spirit and unforgettable characters. Definitely a book I'd recommend! :D
After eleven-year-old Addie Pray's mother dies, she travels around the South with Moses "Long Boy" Pray, the man who might be her biological father.
They soon move on to more sophisticated swindles as they travel from Alabama to Tennessee and Louisiana.I soon found myself cheering on Addie and Long Boy even though they were cheating people out of money during the Depression of the 1930s.
Long Boy takes good care of Addie in his own way, although he is introducing her to a life of crime.
Both Addie and Long Boy have quick minds and are fast talkers so they make a good team.
The basis of the memorable B&W Academy Award film (1973) starring Ryan O' Neal and his daughter Tatum ( who won an Oscar award for her performance at age 8), this 2002 edition re- titled from the original Addie Pray has a forward that explains the book / movie connection.
Set mostly in depression era Alabama and narrated by spunky 11 year old Addie Pray this book follows her adventures as the adorable and adept accomplice to the many money making hijinks pulled by charismatic shyster Moses (Long Boy ) Pray who is possibly her father.
This was a re-read for me, but the first time must have been at least 35-40 years ago.
I remembered some parts and particulars, but the ending not at all.
A very satisfactory ending, I must say.
Addie joins Scout Finch and Ellen Foster as one of my favorite child narrators.
Even with the con games and swindling, Addie and Long Boy had their own kind of morality and code of ethics.My favorite quote from the book that sums it all up nicely: "Everyone is better off with some class," Major Lee said once, "but if you're phony, it's absolutely mandatory."
I have forever been a fan of the flimflammer, the con artist, the charming swindler. It is a subject I have long admired as my own personal approach is so distinctly the opposite. I can not recall ever having gained anything worthwhile with a lie, and thus my skills of charm and deceit remain terribly undeveloped. I save myself a lot of time with a simple approach, but I do have huge respect for the con. They are a world apart and I am thrilled to live vicariously through books like this!
This charm almost feels subversive because of the hucksters that Addie and her “daddy” Long Boy are.
Now Long Boy may or not be her real Daddy, but he’s the one that takes her into his life after her mother dies.
And that life is one spent traveling the south scamming people out of money, in small and ever growing ways.
It doesn’t take Long Boy long to realize that Addie is an asset to his way of life.
Addie provides the most color through the kinds of metaphors one could only find in the American South, and Long Boy is a master of dialect.
Second reading. The movie adaptation was titled "Paper Moon." The novel was later re-issued under that title.  Joe David Brown
For one thing, the title used to be Addie Pray, but when they re-printed the book, they switched it to match the title of the movie.
I wish they had been able to add some of the things that happened near the end of the novel into the movie; it would have been some great scenes, but I get why some of it wasn't in there.
Their cons and travels are interesting and fun to read about, Addie is smart and I have always enjoyed novels set near the 1920s and 30s and this is a great look at the depression era.
"When he was wound up right he could sell doodle bugs for doorknobs." Long Boy was a con man in the hardscrabble days of the Great Depression.
Addie Pray was his eleven-year-old accomplice and sidekick.
Together young Addie and her "daddy" combed the Southern United States looking for their next big swindle.To say I enjoyed this book is a understatement.
Joe David Brown created some unforgettable characters in this book as well as some very creative swindles.
You have to wonder if those slippery deals were researched or of Brown's own imagination.
The story is told from the perspective of 12-year-old Addie Pray who takes us through the life of a pair of grifters.
The book was originally titled "Addie Pray", the name was changed after the 1973 film came out and is now known as Paper Moon.
You will not find a reference to "Paper Moon" in the book.
That name came about because the director of the movie liked the sound of it and inserted a scene in the film with Addie having her picture taken in a paper moon set at a carnival.
I've always loved the movie "Paper Moon" but never thought to read the original novel "Addie Pray." This new edition changes the title to match the movie (smart) and includes a nice foreword by the movie's director Peter Bogdanovich.
The book is told from Addie's point of view and is as much a coming-of-age story as it is a Huck Finn-style adventure.
The last 120 pages of the book aren't even in the movie and, according to Bogdanovich, they were to be the basis for a sequel.
So if you got a wistful feeling when Long Boy and Addie drove off together in that old truck at the end of the movie, the good news is, there are plenty more adventures still in store.
Where the movie ends, the book is just getting started, as Long Boy and Addie move on to bigger and better schemes making them more money, broadening their territory, and improving their lifestyle.
(hide spoiler)]I guess just like movie Addie, when actually offered an alternative life, she realized she loved being on the road with Long Boy and doing business more than the idea of having a happy and comfortable home.

Oh, so much to love about this novel! The wonderful characters, the level of detail that brought the US Southern states in the 1930s to life, the engaging voice of the narrator Addie Pray. Most impressive of all: what seems to be a random collection of anecdotes turns out to be a subtly crafted and engrossing plot. I just didn't want this book to end.
Addie Pray is a female Huckleberry Finn, with the practical, good-humored insight of Scout Finch and Mattie Ross.
Finally, I surrendered to Addie's charms because her character is irresistible.
A precocious, film-flammer with a belated sense of justice, Addie is an original.Forget the movie, "Paper Moon" although it is faithful to the first third of the book.
The adventures of Moses and Addie Pray don't end after their contretemps with the bootlegging sheriff.
She's a joy.So, read it for the schemes, read it to revisit the South or read this for the jokes but take the time to meet Addie Pray.
This book, which McKenzie reviewed, sounded really interesting, so I borrowed it from her and...I was hooked.
I always like to read books about enterprising con men and women who you can sympathize with.
I didn't find the dry patch that Kenzie referred; there were a lot of various different types of cons that were described, and I liked that.
I probably liked this one a lot because I really like the movie The Sting (which incidentally was made around the same time as this book was published), which also about con men during the Depression.
So now you have two reviews motivating you to read it.www.novareviews.blogspot.com
I’ve loved the movie for many years, “Paper Moon,” but I know that movies rarely cover the entire story. In this case, it covered about a third of the book which was originally titled, “Addie Pray.” The rest is just as good, and the end is really sweet, but I can see why they decided not to do a sequel. The author made mid-1930s South really come alive for me, but what really amazed me is how an older man could write from a twelve year old girl’s perspective. I’m so glad I took the time to read it.
Loved this book. Loved it. Best "con" story that I ever read. Old school Flim-flam. Well drawn characters. Bogdanovich did a terrific job with the movie. I prefer the book, though. So many more adventures with Addy and Long Boy. Lot of fun, and a great snap shot of Depression era america. Deserves to be read by more folks. Pick it up!
It is narrated by Addie, the 11 year old girl who has just lost her mother.
Along the way supposedly to Addie's aunt Moses { otherwise know as long boy in the book} makes money by doing cons some being swindling widows out of money by claiming their departed spouse ordered a bible for the wife.
Addie turns out to be just as good at joining in on the cons as Long boy.
Other characters come into the book like Trixie Delight, the slutty show girl, Another man who takes moses and Addie along for is own cons.
I've read and re-read this book many times since my childhood.
The movie Paper Moon really missed much of the charm and the point of the story for me.The whole point of the book (IMO) is tagging along on a series of adventures, getting a feel for the rootlessness and need for each other that the two main characters have.
What was that in the film?
The book's sense of place is essential.
In this time and place, when conformity was part of life, these two charmers live by their own rules, because for them there was no other life.
I digress.This book is filled with garbled, confusing, southern twang that at times I'd have to read a word over to figure out what it was supposed to be.
Even in context, the first time I read that I had to say it out loud in different twangs to figure out he meant "always".
I've kind of been on a binge of watching movies that involve cons, short and long.
The short cons in this book blow my mind with their simplicity.
It's almost like two different stories and for that I'm grateful.
I read this book about a thousand times between the ages of 11 and 14.
It's a kid's-eye view of high adventure in the time of the depression in the South.
I wanted to be Addie Pray, a savvy kid con artist along with her may-be father.
It's amazing, how well Joe David Brown wrote from an 11 year old girl's perspective, it fit perfectly with my own view of the world at that age.
This book formed my ideas of a romantic life, in the sense of being a brilliant kid working out her existence amidst the hustle of a grown up world, and it fuelled my imagination.

Please note**** This is not a children's book!
I somehow thought it was and gave it to my 10 and 12-year-old to read, which they did, before I read it.
And then when I read it I was quite horrified at the inappropriate content!
It wasn't explicit, in fact, I'm quite sure my 10-year-old missed all the references, but STILL!
I couldn't settle down and enjoy the book very well until I left it for a couple days to let my feelings of shame simmer.
It is a story ABOUT a child, however.
And it's really quite interesting.
I really like this book, but this is one of the rare times where I like the movie more than the book.
That being said, the book is also amazing and offers up more insight from Addie and more details about the characters (In the book, its made clear that Moze is probably Addie's father, but he wont admit it) than the movie does.
However, I wasn't too interested in the latter half of the book involving Major Lee and Grandmama Sass, though.
It wasn't nearly as interesting as the first half of the book.
I read the older, pre-movie version of the movie, "Paper Moon". If you can, read the old book, it may be called Adie Pray, I can't remember. Then watch the movie. The movie is good, but it leaves out so much! It is about a young girl who is orphaned and travels around with a professional con man. They run scams like selling bibles to recent widows, tricking the agriculture committee, and selling a moonshiner his own illegal liquor. Great characters and even better descriptions of the story.
About half way through the book I found it funny that I was pulling for the dishonest heroin. This was a very entertaining read about a young girl and her "maybe" father going about the south in the 30's pulling cons. The heroine did have many wonderful moral qualities, and at the same time was all about doing "business"! Don't base this book off the movie which was kind of dark and depressing. This book is light hearted and fun for the most part.
Those of you old enough may remember the black and white 1973 film of Paper Moon featuring an impossibly young looking Ryan O'Neal and his daughter, Tatum as a couple of smalltime cons working the southern states of America during the Depression. (Youtube has scenes here:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dXWVS3...). The film was funny and well done but deviated from the storyline in the book which is worth reading for its own sake. Lots of fun and a happy feel good ending.
For a while I thought I was going to like the movie better than the book but once Major Lee came along, I was hooked. Colorful characters and crafty schemes drive this book and adventure abounds. The Southern dialect seemed a bit off to me at times but that's a picky detail only Southerners will notice. It's been said before but it's absolutely true: Addie Pray is Scout and Huck Finn rolled into one. She's the real deal.
Wonderful, lovely book. Different from the film, but I do love them both. The styling and language is perfect and charming.The characters are amazing. Cons & money-making 'business' are just a vehicle for a story about close relationships. The ending just about broke my heart but kind of in a Harold and Maude way where everything'll be alright.
