https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109515.How_I_Raised_Myself_From_Failure_to_Success_in_Selling
Find out what the buyer wants, then help him find the best way to get it6.
An Idea That Helped Me Get Into the "Major Leagues" - learn every aspect of the sales process for my profession 1)rehash the sales presentation right AFTER you make the last one 2)Write it out word for word.
Seven Rules I Use in Closing the Sale - Get the customer involved in the demonstration (give them an Inspection Report)32.
Write up the Service Agreement to use at the close and show the prospect VI.
Let's You and I Have a Heart-to-Heart Talk - concentrate on one sales thing and DO IT!
Any salesman that hasn't read How To Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie should read this book.
It has caused me to finally start the program that Benjamin Franklin did of applying one subject each week for 1/4 of the year (equals 13 subjects and Franklin's 13 subjects are Temperance, Silence, Order, Resolution, Frugality, Industry, Sincerity, Justice, Moderation, Cleanliness, Tranquility, Chastity and Humility.) Bettger kept 6 of these and added 7 of his own: Enthusiasm, Order: self-organization, Think in terms of other's interests, questions, key issues, silence:listen, sincerity: deserve confidence, knowledge of my business, appreciation and praise, smile:happiness, remember names and faces, service and prospecting, and closing the sale: action.This caused me to decide to put together my own 13 subjects.
If you are a child, you sell getting to stay up late to your parents.
We all sell.
If you are a teacher, you sell education to your students.
If you are a student, you have to sell your intelligence level to your teacher.
Don’t we all need that lesson sometimes?This book won’t sell anything for you.
It gives you some good, basic, common sense methods to use in your everyday life, whether you think you are selling or not.In my opinion this is the most valuable book on my bookshelf.
Bettger teaches the reader how to work towards overcoming fear, how to remember names and important details about other people, how to be a good listener, how to be genuine at all times, and how selling (when done right) is simply gaining the trust of others so they are willing to let you find them the best solutions for their individual situation.I'll end with the counsel he gives in the last chapter.
Classic advice from (at the time) the highest paid salesperson in America.
I have given this book as a gift several times.
Includes the inspiring poem by Herbert Kauffman which Bettger shared hundreds of times through his professional career.VictoryYou are the one who used to boastThat you’d achieve the uttermostsome day.You merely wished a show,To demonstrate how much you knowAnd prove the distance you can go…Another year we’ve just passed through.What new ideas came to you?How many big things did you do?Time… left twelve fresh months in your careHow many of them did you shareWith opportunity and dareAgain where you so often missed?We do not find you on the list of Makers Good.Explain the fact!Ah no ’twas not the chance you lacked!As usual — you failed to act!
I was wrong.An associate of Dale Carnegie, of "How to Win Friends and Influence People" fame, Bettger's book is of that standard, but for salespeople.
He gives you some ideas to change how you think about selling, provides a formula for sales success, shows how to gain a prospect's confidence, offers five things you can do so the prospect sells themselves on you, and closes with the steps of the sales process.Bearing in mind that Ari Galper has recently game-changed my ideas around selling (his ideas are in No BS Sales Success in the New Economy by Dan S Kennedy), I've changed Bettger's ideas to conform to Galper's, but even so, it's still filled with dozens of ideas I want to test out.
One of the best books I've read in terms of attitude towards selling, particularly for people that don't consider themselves as sellers. Highly recommended.
From the time we first learn to cry to get fed or changed, we are selling. This is the best book I've found to teach how to sell properly.
This is the best sales book I’ve ever read. I would recommend it at the same level as “How To Win Friends and Influence People.” Every chapter has intensely practical tips that are just as relevant and that was they were 100 years ago. Could not give a higher review.
I don't know how exactly, but ever since I read this, I have no problem striking up conversation with people in the street. There was no particular chapter - it just clicked.
If your going to deal with people and you are then you need to read this book.
“Tell the story of your own life.
Just tell the story of your life as a salesman.” I really enjoyed this book.
It’s easy to read with applicable stories and well-defined tactics that can be implemented now.
It’s the story of a man who had to quit baseball and go into selling.
He even includes a plan on how to implement his advice.
I think one of the aspects of this book I enjoyed the most was his excitement that was obvious throughout the text.
He was excited to share his story and see others apply the lessons he was teaching.
This book is most interesting in the world
Frank and Dale Carnegie are good friends - and it shows in the book. Lots of references to each other throughout the book, similar concepts as "how to make friends and influence people". TLDR: smile, be genuine, take interest in your clients' work, think from their perspective and help them realize their goals.
It is important for all people to continue learning and bettering themselves, no matter what their current situation.
I consider listening to this book to have been a good use of my time.
When I was younger I was guilty of this, but I realized that you can be much more well rounded if you listen to others and learn about their interests.- Set aside time to plan how you will spend your time.
In this current day, I think people would be shocked at how much time they spend (er, waste) on social media, tv, and other things.
Franklin Lyle Bettgerwrote "How I raised myself from failure to success in selling." * Though he would seem egotistical by writing this book.* failed at selling life insurance* made 40,000 sales calls in 25years.
Ch. 1 these ideas lifted me out of the ranks of failure-nervous -scared +relax -*lazy +enthusiastic +electrified +energy+force =felt better +*enthusiasticfrom $25 to 185 a month+life +animation- ____ falt with baseball/sales-*will stop me- _no E._ falt with baseball/sales+ enthusiastic- I have seen the lack of E.
Great Read for you to understand YOU.
It is not particularly about SELLING...yet anything you do in life...
you are selling yourself.
Understand WHY having all the knowledge in the world may not afford you The Great Results than HE who may have less knowledge.
WHY that individual excels and some slight adjustments YOU can make in your daily life (rather personal or business) to see better results.
Read the book for all the other great nuggets.
I have been suggested by my mentor to keep reading this over until great results in my life are achieved.
If you read only one book on sales, make it this one. The writing style is in the same vein as "How to Win Friends and Influence People"; the author was mentored by Dale Carnegie. Overall it's a solid read that dives into the psychology of selling and changing your mindset/approach to selling.
Excelente livro, apesar de antigo, tem muitas idéias boas e que continuam contemporâneas. O que mais gostei foi o reforço de vários conceitos modernos de vendas complexas com uma leitura leve e inspiradora.
This book was one of the best books I have ever read. It does have a focus in the area of business/sales, but it applies to everything in life.
Definitely dated, but good advice for any business owner.
I actually REALLY enjoyed this book. There is so much about life in here...even if you're not interested in selling. I like people who are genuine and real. There are neat lessons here.
Good strong fundamental sales book.
Yuval Noah Harari) lukea pelkkään ihmistenväliseen face2face-vuorovaikutukseen perustuvaa teosta.Kirja on kirjoitettu 40-luvulla, aikakaudella, jolloin 200 dollarin viikkopalkka oli paljon ja ihmistenvälisessä toiminnassa aitous ja vilpittömyys olivat suurin eteenpäin vievä voima.Kirjoittaja Frank Bettgerin lapsuus ei ollut mairitteleva.
Hän ja tämän kirjan kirjoittaja olivat itseasiassa ystäviä keskenään ja Herra Carnegie mainitaan teoksessa useita kertoja.Muut kirjassa mainitut nykyäänkin arvossa pidetyt henkilöt ovat yhdysvaltain entinen presidentti Abraham Lincoln.
The book introduces instructions all the way from self-motivation to gaining the customer's trust, and from the importance of scheduling to actual sales negotiation tips.
Even though the ideas are old and Bettger himself was an insurance salesman, almost all of them can easily be applied to any time and to any sales.
The fact that one has to imagine the sales negotiations happening in the US of the early 1900s just makes the book more entertaining.As everything is summarized after every chapter and part, and Bettger repeats himself quite often, the reader may find oneself reading some things over and over again.
Not the type of book that I usually read.
In fact, I usually run screaming from books of this type.
I read this book for two major reasons.
The second is that I am trying to ensure that I do not enter into a bubble where I read only things that I agree with.All things considered, I found the book far more palatable than I expected it to be.
One part of it was the conversational style of writing that made it seem more like an autobiography than a self-help book.
The other was the brevity that was apparent in the book.
This book is as relevant today as it was in 1947 when it was originally published.
More than 30 chapters full of actionable advice on salesmanship that can easily be applied to any number of contemporary activities: building an online presence, networking at any event, serving on a board, etc.The overarching idea behind this book is: be nice and thoughtful.
People make sales through friends.
People make friends by remembering others' names when they are introduced for the first time.
A book written by a life insurance salesman sounds dreary but instead it never failed to improve my mood and outlook on life.
I read this book based on a review from a my friend though I am usually not a fan of self-help books. I took it up because I thought I could learn about selling. After reading, I don't regret reading it.It has good number of practical ideas though in the middle I felt that this is old fashioned selling (conditioning the customers). But giving deeper thought into the ideas, I understand it is more of insightful selling. And I really love the Benjamin Franklin plan and would genuinely give that plan a try.
I read this because I believe selling is often about relationships and if you can get better at building and maintaining authentic relationships you'll get better at pretty much anything you do in life. It was a fun and relatively easy read and, as I had hoped, applicable for working with people outside of sales directly. Parts of it were a little dated as it was published in 1949, like the recommendation of finding myself a good haberdasher, but somehow that made it even more fun. And, bizarrely, it has me contemplating if I can find a good haberdasher.
My biggest takeaways:-- Enthusiasm makes you $30/hr. Anything after that is due to skill specialization. -- Never sell. Help people discover that they want to buy. -- Attention --> Interest --> Desire --> Close.-- When transitioning from desire to close, assume the sale. If concerns arise, inquire as to why and ask if there is anything else. Then listen. Most people sell themselves.-- People like to be regularly scheduled (e.g., tennis lessons). -- Always be honest.
