https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18908542-green-eyed-monster

UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH I HATE IT WHO ENDS BOOKS LIKE THIS AND THEN TELL THEM HEY U HAV TO WAIT NOT 3MOS NOT 6MOS BUT A WHOLE YEAR A YEAR ITS NOT NATURAL... OH LORD WHAT IM I GOING TO DO. LOV IT.;-)
i cant wait til 3 comes out i read part 2 & 3 and i cant wait two find out what happens and i hope this story has a happy ending because prada plan 2 left me clueless wanting more answer and i kno that prada plan 3 will be the answer to all my questions.. i cnt wait....!!!!
I'm a little disappointed in the plot of the story because who wants to keep reading about misery and strife in one persons life when a gate way to happiness is in front of them. The characters should have been retired with a happy ending.
i cant wait til this book comes out i have read part one and part two. cant wait. i am getting so excited.
hope it answers my questions and the outcome is in the favor of Disaya, Indie, and baby Skylar.
I usually don't write reviews, but I felt the need to with this one.
I felt like, overall, it was a good story, but it lacked the passion and sincerity that the first two had, and the added fact of waiting forever (two years) to get it after it was repeatedly pushed back was a recipe for disaster.
I'm debating about reading the fourth one because even though I do like Ashley's (and Jaquavis) books, I feel like she's dragging out the series to make a dollar because it doesn't seem like she's no longer giving the series her full attention to make it great.
Things are revealed and YaYa makes her way back to Indie, while her wounds may have healed, there is major damage mentally.
The book startly off flawlessly, but about half way through things took a turn, and became a little slow.
I managed to push through and it definitely picked back up again, only for us to be hit with the last line of the book stating: "The Prada Plan 4 coming January 2014".
Overall the book was a good read, I just couldn't connect with YaYa's character this time around.
I will be reading the next installment because with the way it ended, I see major things happening next time around.
I thought the book was OK... I so love the way everything came out but I wish that this was the last book... So now we have to wait another year or so to find out what happens to the remaining characters... Hands down I live the authors work but I'm ready for an end to this story!
cant wait for this book to drop..
I can't wait unto the third prada plan comes out one and two was great
Like I said before if this book had came out a few years back, then I believe that it would have had a greater impact on me.
I understand that the traumatic experience she went through would change anyone, but it seemed like that was the main focus of the story.
I believe that the author could have went the other way with this story and then it would have been a 5 star BANGER!
I thought that she would have went into the direction, but I understand that this is her creation...I really hope that part 4 will be much better than this one!
Once again Ashley Antionette did not disappoint, however, I got to waait until Jan. 2014 to find out who really dies, Leah or YaYa. As of now Indie was left at the altar waiting for YaYa not knowing she and Leah are in the water fighting for each of their lives. I hope YaYa survives. I think I'm in love with Indie myself. LOL!
Good..... But not great.I have waited a long time to finally read Prada Plan 3, and I was some what disappointed. This book was very predictable. I love the connection and ever lasting love between Indie and Ya Ya. But damn can they get a break. Chase has emerged has one of my favorite characters. Hopefully Prada Plan 4 will be the last and best book in this series.
I just want to jump thru this book and knock Leah off myself since Yaya cant seem to do it. She should have taken Zya up on her offer bc she knows she does not have it in her to kill....Now look what happened!!!!!I enjoyed it anyway!
She just wont die damn it
*Sad face*First off, let me make it known that this book was well written (minus some of the minor grammar issues).
I was about to give this novel 3.5 stars until I read that disappointing ending, but anyways.
Yaya's inner turmoil was highly believable but I still disliked it lol.
Indie's denial was believable as well but I think Ashley went too far with it.
I was extremely tired of reading Leah's name.
Just like the last novel, this book could've been the last one but that would be too good to be true though.
YaYa and Indie's love affair has always been off and on and explosive.
TPP3, Indie and YaYa's love affair was not the focus.
The focus was mostly on YaYa's obsession with Leah and getting revenge.
Although that in itself makes the story better, I think that there was just too much emphasis on YaYa's bad decisions based on her fears and obsessive behavior resulting from surviving the fire and finding Leah.I kind of felt like the story was filled in with YaYa's ongoing mind games with herself.
I hope that Part IV will be a better read and not filled with unnecessary baggage...
Really????Okay I've read this latest novel in this series and honestly I am ready to see it end!
Leah Richards is not Houdini and should either be dead or locked up by now.
To me this really should have ended the series but there's a 4th novel coming out!!
All I can say is enough already, let someone have a happily ever after or let it end.
I kept thinking as I read are these people really that naïve!
I guess its wait to see how the author raps up the series!
Firethis book was fire. I can't wait for part 4. I loved it. it's a real page turner. Love it
It was a good read, but got kind of slow after awhile. But I still like Ashely's books. Can't wait 2 read part four.
Lackluster. Let's act like this book never happened. It's the worst book in the series.
This was a good read.
I was saddend by Disaya's unhealthy obssesion with wanting to kill Leah, but I understood why she felt that way.
Indie although he loves Disaya with all that he is..in this sequel he missed really being there for Disaya.
I'm hopping in the The Prada Plan 4 Sequel that Disaya will again come out on top and this crazy psycho Leah is finally put to rest she has just gone beyond ridiculous with her obssesion with Disaya!
I give it 4 stars it's worth a read.
I love the Prada Plan series and as always Indie and YaYa kept me going.
However, the back and forward between YaYa and Leah is getting old.
YaYa is always finding herself on the losing end if she doesn't get rid of Leah.
I think the Leah part has run it's course so I certainly hope it didn't end the way it appeared.
I'd love for Part 4 to be more about what happens as Indie goes into his new business venture and how they deal with YaYa's addictions.
Can't wait to get part 4 and read more about Indie!!
I love his character!
I read this book in 1 day I received it on Jan 28,2013 kind of upset I thought she was goin end it now we all are left in suspense again I mean did Leah really kill yaya this time of so no in sense in going forward with a part 4 I kind of think Leah met her maker.. All I wanted was for indie and Leah to live happy ughhh ain't nobody got time for this
I enjoyed the series, but YaYa's obsession with Lelah was overkill for me. Too much light was shed on her mistakes, and there was not enough focus on her and Indie's relationship. I think the series could have ended with book three, but the story was stretched out so that there could be a book four. Oh well, hopefully Ashley will bring it in book four and put an end to either YaYa or Lelah.
I have enjoyed all 3 books , The Prada Plan. It was intriguing, suspenseful, and indulging.Highly recommended and I am eagerly awaiting Part 4.I have enjoyed all 3 books, The Prada Plan. it was intriguing,suspenseful, and indulging. Highly recommended and I am eagerly awaiting Part 4.
After waiting a couple years for this book to come out...I have to say that I'm disappointed...I felt like the book was lacking something the whole time I was reading...I just hope the 4th one is much better...But I am curious in knowing whose going to come out alive...I guess I'll have to wait another year...As long as they don't keep pushing that date back like they did this one!
This book was enjoyable. However, I really wish YaYa would get her happy ending. This ongoing battle with Leah has gone on far to long. YaYa was really vulnerable in this book and it saddened me to see her this way. Hopefully book 4 be YaYa's and Indie's happy ending!
This one was okay. I felt line she kept repeating the same things over and over.it didn't hold Mt interest like the first two. I usually love her books but this one was bit all that great. I hope she comes off stronger and picks the pace back up in for.
