https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/469039.A_Girl_to_Come_Home_To
Suddenly Rodney finds himself entangled in an espionage plot--until he meets a young girl whose faith shows him how to overcome any obstacle.REVIEW: As always, I enjoy the homespun quaintness of Hill's faith-filled stories.
I've just got my eyes open suddenly....I'm the man whose eyes are open, opened by the Lord and I pray that no more shall I go round equivocating and viewing questions from this mountain pek and that one tryikng to get God to agree with me.
I pray that I may always be the man 'whose eyes are open' to what God wants me to do."
While I enjoyed this one, I've read much better from this author. If you're new to the writings of Grace Livingston Hill, don't let this be the first book of hers you read.
This is the story of two young men—brothers who were in the navy in WWII and come back to a loving family. And one not-so-loving ex-fiancée. Rodney Graeme, the older brother, was heartbroken when his fiancée, Jessica, broke their engagement before he went off to war.Starts out slowly, rather hard to get into.
A nice little storyThis one lacked some of the depth I usually find in Grace Livingston Hill novels. I felt the main characters should have been more confrontational (honest) with the challenging people they dealt with.
A bit slow moving at first and very different from many of Grace Livingston Hill's other books. There were multiple perspectives in this one, which was refreshing. I enjoyed the ending immensely.
This was a refreshing read after several books that I didn't like as well. While this was a slower paced story and there were several times when I felt the author was telling me the story instead of letting me live it, it was still good. I really enjoyed the spiritual aspect and the friendships between the characters. But oh, Jessica! I didn't like her, but at the same time I felt rather sorry for her.
I love GLH, her books are always the sweetest. I loved the comradery between the brothers, it was so fun. Perfect book for vacation.
Hott Synopsis:Bitter and disillusioned Rodney Graeme returns home from war to spend some much needed time with his family.War is a funny thing.
It also caused Rodney to become bitter about the one he thought he loved.
But is it only memories she’s hoping to unearth or is it something more devious?Hott Review:Oddly enough this is the first time I’ve read this book.
I love Mrs. Hill’s writing style and felt like I was part of the story so I sometimes took things more to heart.
Audience: Adult (Clean)Genre: Inspirational Romance, Historical RomanceLength: 256 pgs.Rating: ** (It was okay)Review: One of the things that colored my reading of this is not knowing that it was a reprint of an older book.
In reality, the love story played second or third fiddle to the gospel message in the book, which is fine, but not really my thing.Content: Rated 1-5; 1 being minor instances, 5 being saturatedSex - 0 (The kisses were all very chaste)Violence - 0Language - 0Preaching - 5+Source: I received a copy of this book via Netgalley in exchange for my honest review.Read this review and more at http://raneesclark.blogspot.com
Written in the 1940s, during WWII and partly about it, I enjoyed the way life is portrayed and how those to profess to be true Christians would act. I also like the portrayal of the family life of the Graemes.
G.L.H. would have thought that I am not girl to come hame to because I wear lipstick and red nail polish! I found this one the most dated of G.L.H.'s books that I have read. I still enjoyed even though she made all nail polish wearers unladylike tramps. :}
This is one my favorite GLH books (there are three). This is a nice story about 2 boys who come home from the war (after being wounded) and deal with the life they find there. Great story line and interesting play amongst the characters. I really enjoyed this story.
In this book I learned that there is always failure in love. A trial and error one.But love is always around us . It may not be the special love we are looking for but the love our family is their. Love comes to those who believe in it. You must not search for love but let love search you.
Fine. Not super exciting. Not overly romantic. Not boring. Not perfect morals, but lots of good morals too. Just a kind of light fluffy reading. Not the kind I enjoy super much, but it's fine for every now and then.
A very late GLH, and it shows. This is set during WW 2 but in many ways it reads like the 1920s. A loving family, a charming girl who is saved, a snoopy cousin and a villainous ex-girlfriend, who apparently has been coerced into spying for the enemy via her wealthy no-good husband...
Beautifully written. A romance but lots of scripture and very uplifting.
i looooved this book!!!!
Very good story, jumped perspective a lot but very glad to have read it!
After enjoying the old fashioned charm of Hill's "Cloudy Jewel," I expected to like this more than I did. But it really fell flat for me.
