https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12467.The_Naked_and_the_Dead
(I never mind if someone has previously done that.)So I have looked out of Humbert Humbert’s paedophiliac eyes, I overheard the good man Jesus and the scoundrel Christ, I declined and fell with Paul Pennyfeather and I closely observed Molly Bloom in her bed for at least three hours, she didn’t notice a thing.
It could have been a good one, I guess, you never know until you try, heck I’ve liked some funny things in my time.
It's a kind of savory to me.’”To generals war is a theatre and a battlefield is a stage so they can admire the scenes of bloodbath from afar.The Naked and the Dead is Norman Mailer’s best novel and it is the best American book about war.
The Naked and the Dead is a merciless and extremely graphic novel but what the hell, war knows no shame and no pity.Now that truth in literature has been replaced with political correctness the book is rarely read.“All the deep dark urges of man, the sacrifices on the hilltop, and the churning lusts of the night and sleep, weren't all of them contained in the shattering screaming burst of a shell, the man-made thunder and light?

I can't recall how many years ago I tried to read this - probably 30 or more.
I recall hearing that it was the best story about war ever written so, impressionable as I was at that age, I decided I'd have to read it.
My only recollection is that very early on there was a scene of such grim death and destruction that I felt physically sickened.
Coward that I was (and probably still am) I gave up the attempt to work my way through this tome immediately.
Maybe I will in another 30 years.
This book reminded me of nothing so much as an episode of Seinfeld set during the Pacific War. The characters are all hateful, spiteful, little men.
And the ending is straight out of the Seinfeld finale, with the action devolving from black comedy to farce, and the hateful, spiteful, little characters left utterly unredeemed.
The main characters are the men of an Intelligence and Reconnaissance (I&R) platoon: Lieutenant Hearn, Sgt. Croft, Sgt. Brown, and your typical ethnic and cultural grab bag of enlisted men: Goldstein and Roth (the Jews); Martinez (the Mexican); Wilson (the redneck).
What does hurt the book is some occasionally akward diction and character development for some of the books figures.
I'm tempted to give it five stars, but in the end I think the book maybe wasn't as beautiful and influencial as some of my favorite five star reads.Parting Shots:Did anyone else think the writting of Japbait was somewhat oversimplistic?Who else loved that last line of the book?So the Leiutenent admitted he hated Thomas Mann's Magic Mountain, but his conversations with the General really reminded me of Catsorp's relationship with Leo Naphta in Mann's classic.

Executioner's Song was one of the best books I've read in the past year -- so good I haven't felt up to reviewing it -- so I had high expectations for The Naked and the Dead.
The front-cover blurb from the SF Chronicle speculates that this novel is "perhaps the best book to come out of any war," which really jacked up the ante and got me intrigued.Well, I got only a little over a hundred pages in, and IMHO The Naked and the Dead isn't bad, but it is not a better book than War and Peace or The Iliad.
It seemed to him now that he was very near a fundamental understanding of himself, and he felt a sense of mystery and discovery as if he had found unseen gulfs and bridges in all the familiar drab terrain of his life.
“You know,” he said, “life is funny.” I often loved this account of anxiety and failure, though I remain certain that Mailer robbed Hemingway -- particularly -- For Whom The Bell Tolls.
The jungle affords reflection on sexual incongruity and soured ambition.
The Japanese don't appear for most of the book, obviously absorbed in their own angst and ennui.
He knew that his forte was the description and action of his stories and so for the most part he stuck to that and wrote some very satisfying creepy stories.By contrast, Norman Mailer wrote a great deal of dialogue in the "Naked and the Dead".
So they look at the sunset and they go on their mission and not a great deal happens there either and then the book is over.The San Francisco Chronicle calls "The Naked and the Dead" "...perhaps the best book to come out of any war." The San Francisco Chronicle is full of shit.I read this book because Norman Mailer is one of the most acclaimed authors in the American canon.
This is an amazing book considering it was the author's first published novel.
All the more amazing considering Mailer was something like 20 years old when he wrote it.
I picked it up after reading somewhere that Mailer actually joined the military during WWII in order to gain some life experience so he could write a book.
I really enjoyed Mailer's writing style.
I love the fact that there is no hero or character who can be seen as the good guy.
Mailer exposes each characters hang ups and dysfunctions and simply shows how each functions under the stress of combat and military life in general.
Probably the best war epic in the "from here to eternity" vein I've read.
And all the more astonishing because mailer seems to have started that style - at least in America; I've not read Tolstoy.
Definitely a spectacular first novel.The problem is that it also confirmed for me that I'm just not all that into the war epic in the "from here to eternity" style.
I admire Mailer's plot and character development on principle, and there are some brilliantly written passages.
I also thought the characters, while portrayed well, often fell into stereotypes.
Libro eccelso. Sporco. Lascia il segno.Norman Mailer non si è più ripetuto a questo livello.Forse è impossibile.
Unlike Joseph Heller's masterwork, perhaps the definitive WWII book in close contention with Vonnegut's "Slaughterhouse Five," The Naked and the Dead contains no character we may call completely sympathetic, and is perhaps the only war novel out there that lacks a strict protagonist.
Casual readers will balk at the attention to military detail, a convention neither Heller nor Vonnegut thought necessary to make their points and one that can bloat Mailer's tale at times.
In qualunque modo la si racconti, la guerra è terribilmente efficace come tema letterario, non si smette mai, infatti, di descriverne l'orrore, l'inutilità, il dramma umano.
Non ci sono intenti satirici, perché i fatti di per sé sono patetici, senza bisogno d'altro.
Non ci sono intenti epici, perché le vicende sono piccole, senza troppa azione, ma con tanta umanità, di quella spicciola, che si incontra in ogni ambiente o luogo di lavoro.
Non ci sono intenti politici, perché il potere e la gerarchia militare sono assurdi anche senza alcun bisogno di commento.
I read this long, long ago and none of the story or characters have stayed with me. What is left is an impression of a war so gritty and dirty that one feels disgusted (I remember one character having some sort of kidney problem, with attendant stomach-ache and blood in urine - for me, this has become the defining image of war). Also, the last sentence - "Hot dog!" - by a soldier contemplating possible furlough. I think Mailer achieved what he intended, at least with me.
DNF at 49%, 353 pages. I'm bored and this is slow going so I'm giving up in total frustration. It's not a bad book but it would take me way longer to finish than I can possibly bear.
Norman Mailer studied aeronautical engineering at Harvard, but he became interested in writing, having his first story published at age 18.
Mailer throws flashback-style personal histories of the main characters at intervals as the current story unfolds.
Even the Division General, Cummings, is obsessed that enemies at Higher Headquarters will find cause to use any mistakes against him and stall his career.Lt. Hearn is probably to be considered to be the central character in the story.
He certainly was true when he said the book had immediacy, coming out when everyone was hungry for a "big war novel", and that he delivered with a good, vigorous story that got only better as it unfolded.
Nessun fratello in arme La cosa migliore di questo riuscito libro di Norman Mailer è la distruzione della retorica falsa della fratellanza tra i compagni d'arme, del cameratismo tra i soldati, della condivisione di una dimensione tragica, ma comunque epica.
In effetti il miglior personaggio del libro, Red, eccelle nella capacità di NON legarsi agli altri, di rifiutare ogni contatto, conscio che è l'unico mezzo per sopravvivere...
un grande libro, la cui dimensione anti-retorica e quasi esistenziale non può non ricordare i migliori film di guerra ad esso posteriori: Full Metal Jacket di Kubrick, La sottile linea rossa di Malick, Apocalypse Now di Coppola
As a young woman I swore I would never read anything by that bastard Norman Mailer. I'd read "The Executioner's Song" and thought it okay but I despised Mailer as if from a personal feminist vendetta. In fact, I still do. BUT this book knocked my socks off. I loved it. So much for prejudice.
Unangemessene Strapazen und die Nöte, denen man physisch und vielleicht auch psychisch ausgesetzt ist, wenn man nicht mehr kann sind in der betreffenden Situation sicherlich unerträglich, - Mailer lässt sein vom Rest als nutzlos empfundenes alter ego Roth, dem der Antisemitismus der Truppe in einer kritischen Situation zusetzt, bei einem Sprung abstürzen, den alle anderen bewältigt haben -, aber diese Erfahrungen über 250 Seiten mittels acht Charakteren auswalzen, die nicht mal in einen ordentlichen Konflikt geraten, das ist schon ein starkes Stück.
Mailer’s writing felt forced – his weaving of soldier’s back stories into the narrative I found clumpy, the details unrealistic – his portrayal of General Cummings’ thought processes bordered on ridiculous at times – and none of the plot lines ever came together for me.Perhaps in 1948 when this book was first published, a General commanding an important offensive in a major war being secretly gay and very lonely intrigued people.
Perhaps Mailer’s intention was to show the randomness of war, the luck involved, the fate of soldiers beyond exhaustion and on the brink of physical and mental collapse resting on chance, but it didn’t work for me.Sorry Norman Mailer, but if this novel is considered one of your greatest achievements, then I don’t think I’ll be reading any of your others.
L'intrique se deroulent sur un ile pacifique qui ressemble drolement a Okinawa.vermisiliitude.Une majeure partie de ce roman est consacre a une mission de reconnaissance derriere les lignes japonaises qui se termine en queue de poisson.
Pourtant, les membres de la mission choisi par l'auteur represente toutes les couches de la societe americaine de l'epoque ci qui permet a l'auteur de donner un portrait tres exact des divergences de point de vues de ces groupes.Les autre partie majeure du roman met le leadership et les strategies des chefs militaires sous la loupe.
This is not a war novel, but a novel about Americans at war.
And which Americans?
Largely cast with Depression-era misanthropes, Mailer zooms in and out via flashbacks (called "Time Machines") in an attempt to create an anti-war novel of the post-WWI species.
He mostly succeeds in creating an anti-American novel of the 1950s species, where the least self-aware have the keenest insights.
You can tell it's an author's first work.Matt's review here is a good summary of my views--except the book's ending was designed to epitomize American un-seriousness and Army pointlessness.
مان برهنه ها و مرده ها یکی از اولین ، مهم ترین و جریان سازترین نوشته های نورمن میلر آمریکایی است.
این رمان در عین حال تنها اثر مهم این نویسنده فقید است که به فارسی ترجمه شده است: برهنه ها و مرده ها در سال ۱۹۴۸ به بازار آمد، تنها کمی بعد از پایان جنگ دوم جهانی و به سرعت هم به یکی از مهم ترین رمان های جنگی نیمه دوم قرن بیستم تبدیل شد.
میلر در طول عمر درازش آثار فراوانی نوشت که هنوز هم در میان آنها «برهنه ها و مرده ها» یکی از جدی ترین، پرمخاطب ترین و تاثیرگذارترین ها به حساب می آید.
Thoughts: gawdawful Story recap: men on boats, men get off boats and one man dies, a few Japanese soldiers are killed, an American soldier dies, a Japanese soldier dies, men carry a wounded man back, soldiers try to climb a mountain.Between all this men talk and FEEL.Better title than Naked and the Dead would beThe Househusbands of the South Pacific.Mailer’s point is nihilism.Only good thing is that I’ve read other Mailer works that were very good. If I had read this first I would NEVER have read anything else.
Apparently, when they called this a "great" novel, they meant "great" in the "big" sense. I toiled with this one for weeks and weeks, but I finally finished it last night, just two days after Mailer's death. Probably a very realistic representation of what it is like to be in the Army, I suspect.
Picked up towards the end, but still wasn't my cup of tea...I wonder, if it would have been better to read this in my mother tongue...
Is it Mailer's second hand re-telling of horrors of war makes him give a detachment to his characters?
Or is it his own inexperience makes it a better war novel as a whole?
Be that as it may, these flaws ground these men and they evoke both sympathy and annoyance at the same time.Is it a good book?
Yes and No. It is obvious that the book isn't for everyone.
There are just broken men with tragic endings and even more tragic lives.
The war changed those who experienced, lived and come out of with layers of scars and scabs.
I was also somewhat interested in branching off into different types of books - in this case a war book.
If you are expecting an action packed book, following the lives of the bravest soldiers out there - do not pick up this book.
What this book is REALLY about is how war affects the men in a certain platoon.
Mailer also focuses somewhat on the General, although not as much as the platoon.
Instead it focused on the General who was not the most important character in the story.
