https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/853180.The_Cater_Street_Hangman
One thing I do remember: I loved reading this series.When I decided to fill in the gaps, I noticed that I had not read #2 through and including #5.
At the same time, her mother (especially) admires this daughter who doesn’t bother to hide her emotions and speaks her mind – possibly because that is what she would prefer to do herself.We meet the rest of Charlotte’s family in this novel as well.
Inspector Thomas Pitt meets the family – and Charlotte – when one of their young maids becomes a victim.Anne Perry is a terrific storyteller and guess what?
Historical mystery has turned out to be a favourite genre of mine.
Often, as in this case, the murderer is captured in the act which is pretty conclusive!I had a few small issues with this book, for example the occasional info dumps which I actually skimmed.
I loved the little romance between Charlotte and her policeman and the ending was unexpected but sweet.Anne Perry has written literally dozens of books yet this is the first that I have read.
I very much enjoyed this introduction to Charlotte and Inspector Pitt and I will be following up the series.
More of a family drama in the background of a series of murder of local womenA bit trying, all that drama, was, and the end too abrupt.However, I did like the MCs well enough to try the next book in the series of 30 😵 odd books
Excellent Victorian MysteryThis is my second book by Anne Perry, but my first in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series.
This is the book where Charlotte and Thomas first meet and fall in love over a series of gruesome murders in the neighborhood where Charlotte Ellison and her family live.
It's only as the bodies of other young women they know start to accumulate in their neighborhood that the Ellison family and others of their class, are forced to look at the shocking fact that one of their own kind must be committing these atrocities.I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I would have given it 4 stars had it not been for the fact that I guessed who the killer was about halfway through the book.

3.5 Stars Imagine if you will a society that expected women to stifle their feelings for the good of all.
Her goal was to avoid any cause for upset and she was expected to look the other way when necessary.Charlotte Ellison was a product of the times.
One of Ms. Perry's main purposes was to set up the background and introduce characters.
Charlotte was not the most likable heroine for the brunt of the story.
She thought she was in love with someone that was unattainable.
I thought, more than once, why was Thomas fascinated with her?
Charlotte is the next oldest daughter who has always felt alienated from society and who has been in love with her sister's husband for several years, but is unable and unwilling to act upon those feelings.As you can see, there is a built-in complexity to this novel, despite the subtle presentation.
I felt that Thomas Pitt showed great insight into the other characters that helped Charlotte to get past her emotional involvement with her family and societal counterparts and at the same time to trust her instincts about human nature as well.
It had some insights to offer this reader, but it lacked characters that I could feel for, with the exception of Thomas and Charlotte, and to a lesser degree, Carolyn and Sarah.
The Cater Street Hangman is the first Charlotte & Inspector Pitt novel by Anne Perry.
Enter the impertinent and hard-nosed Inspector Pitt, determined to find the truth and solve the mystery.What I liked most about the book is the protagonist: Charlotte.
In fact, all the female characters are well drawn.
So many mysteries are about clever male detectives, and while our Inspector Pitt is in fact a man, this is really a novel about women.(As an aside: the author has very sordid past, which really informs the novel and affected my reading experience this time.
What I thought I was getting: (i.e. the synopsis on Goodreads)Careless of both murder and manners, Charlotte Ellison and her sister, two determinedly unconventional young women, ignore Victorian mores and actively join the police investigation, led by young Inspector Thomas Pitt, into the murder of their servant girl.What I actually got:Charlotte: "Oh my!
Women are down-trodden!" Then there is the back of my copy of this book which adds: "But it was not panic beating in the heart of pretty Charlotte Ellison.
Bleh.The romance is mainly Charlotte crushing on her brother-in-law at the end until, for no apparent reason, she decides 'That vulgar policeman...he might do!
The Cater Street Hangman is the first book in the Thomas Pitt series by Anne Perry.
The Readers of The Cater Street Hangman will follow the twists and turns of Inspector Pitt investigation into the murders and will wonder if Charlotte and Inspector Pitt will fall in love.I never thought I would enjoy reading historical mysteries until I found Thomas Pitt series.
Readers of Cater Street Hangman will learn about London Society in 1800's.
Also, the readers of The Cater Street Hangman will enjoy Anne Perry writing style and the way she describes her plot.
Imagine my surprise when I read Hulme was actually a critically acclaimed writer!
Right off the bat, for some reason, the blurb made me think of J.D. Robb's In Death series, though the latter is set few centuries into the future.
However, I must admit that Ms. Perry is a much better writer than Robb.
Ms. Perry does a good job with portraying Victorian London, and makes her characters endearing enough to like.
I would read the next book in the series, not because it's addictive in an unsavoury manner, but because I'm genuinely curious about how Ms. Perry keeps the reader's attention as the stories progress.
I look forward to continuing this series (27 books!) which takes place in the late 1800’s, about 20-30 years later than her other Victorian mysteries featuring William Monk.This book describes the meeting, under tragic circumstances, of Police Inspector Thomas Pitt and Charlotte Ellison, the daughter of a banker.
The social gap between them promises to provide interesting challenges in the future.There is an excessive amount of extraneous lecturing on Victorian social ills, but I’ve read so much from Perry now that it’s becoming a comfortably familiar rant - like hearing a relative tell you the same story every time you visit.
I never really got into the rest of the series (or the Monk ones), but I really like this book. Rereading it now, there's a definite modern feminist slant, but it's never to the detriment of the plot, and is a big part of shaping Charlotte's characterization. The mystery is well-plotted and engaging, and you can practically hear the gas lamps sputtering...
Bel primo incontro con questa autrice. Il libro è un giallo abbastanza classico, ma quello che mi ha colpita è l'attenzione della Perry nella descrizione dei personaggi e dell'ambientazione nella Londra vittoriana moralista, ipocrita e con misure diverse per uomini e donne.Forse il finale è un pochino affrettato, tuttavia credo che leggerò altro di questa autrice.
However, the conversations during which Pitt enlightens Charlotte about the “criminal underworld” and other aspects of life unfamiliar to her began to feel like the author lecturing the reader.
While I liked Charlotte and Pitt, some of the other characters became tedious at times.
I began to suspect the true identity of the killer in the last 80 pages, but the killer's motive was such a bombshell, I would've liked an epilogue.
I also would've liked more about Charlotte's process of falling in love with Pitt to the point where she wants to marry him, no questions asked.
How can I not like this?
It combines two of my favorite things… historical fiction and a murder mystery!
It’s set in Victorian-era England, and I think all the intricacies of social life at that time are well portrayed.
It must have been so stressful living at that time and always worrying if you’re doing and saying the right things!
It seemed to me that the worst thing one could do was be “impertinent”.I’m not sure how I feel about Anne Perry’s somewhat sordid past, but I really enjoyed this book and I look forward to reading/listening to the others in the series.
With mystery, that is a must.
Her novels end with a thud; exciting but I would love a chance to absorb the adventure.
This public record is for you, ‘My Love!’Charlotte is forward thinking; immediately likeable as well as relatable.
A second element that yielded enjoyment is a bold and suspenseful mystery that cannot classify as ‘cozy’.
The acts are brutal, there is no known motive, no forewarning, nor any trace of the killer.It seems policemen comprise a lower class and Charlotte’s family is uncomfortable with the frequent canvassing of Inspector Thomas Pitt.
He scrapes together enough clues to make a few connections with her family in particular, warranting repeated visits to them and all neighbours.
First in a series of books about Thomas and Charlotte Pitt.
The strange thing about this books is the way Thomas and Charlotte decide to get married.
One day Charlotte is not sure how she feels about Thomas and within a few pages they have decided to get married.
Perhaps I don't understand Victorian social conventions at all, but I thought that was a little strange.
Still, Perry has to further the novel and the the series, so I suppose many pages of arguing with Charlotte's parents would not work.The book has an odd twist at the end.
I had an inkling of who the killer was, but was a little off.
Crime fiction? Really? Mmm, Anne, I know you can make it better.The only really good thing has been the end; so unexpected. And...ok, I like how you let us know the characters. But I hope a lot more from you! Come on!
First in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt historical mystery series set in Victorian England in 1881.The StoryA number of murders committed by the same person brings Inspector Thomas Pitt to the Ellison household with questions regarding the victims.
Then one of the household becomes a murder victim and Pitt becomes a regular, if mostly unwanted, fixture.And so the summer winds into fall with few clues but leaving time for some in the Ellison house to gain insight into their own characters while the neighbors increasingly begin to look amongst themselves in fear.
3.5 stars!After slow started this book was quite a surprise.I like Charlotte, eventhought she was rude at Thomas first but the guy didn't seem to care much with her attitude.
He wanted her and at the end he got the girl!:)Oh the way Ms. Perry described Thomas's hair reminds me to Edward Cullen's hair, lol.I know I know, Thomas exists long before the teen vampire!It's a good start for this long series and yes, not as good as St. Cyr but not a light mystery crimes either.
And I'm glad I found another series to enjoy 😊.BBC had a film for this one,
Quando saiu este livro fiquei desde logo com grandes expectativas. Mas... saíram goradas. Este livro foi uma completa desilusão porque de policial teve muito pouco.O Estrangulado de Carter Street é mais um romance de época com um toque de mistério. Numa pequena localidade têm surgido casos de raparigas novas que aparecem estranguladas, sempre sob o mesmo método e na mesma altura do dia: à noite.Opinião completa: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2...
This is the first in Anne Perry's Charlotte and Thomas Pitt mysteries, and one of my favorites. I fell in love with Anne Perry's books when I read Pentecost Alley. I bought it not realizing it was part of a series. After reading it I knew I had to read the rest of them. I love the rich period detail she gives her books. She really brings Victorian London to life like no one else.
I read the first book in Anne Perry's Willam Monk series and really enjoyed it.
I was interested to see how this series was so picked this one up.
The reader isn't following the investigation of the murders but is instead stuck at home with Charlotte's obnoxious family.
It probably would've been a better book if I'd been following the detective.
I skipped to the end and found out who the murderer was.
I know - bad book worm!
It's possible that the next book will be better as it picks up where Charlotte and Thomas have been married for a couple years.
A decent beginning to a series.The book focused more on family/social aspects that I was anticipating. I really liked Thomas Pitt and hope subsequent books focus more on the mystery/police. The romance between Charlotte and Mr. Pitt appeared way too rushed as well, but I enjoyed the characters enough to continue with the series.
Hach, der viktorianische Flair ist nicht zu überlesen, allerdings nerven mit der Zeit diese extrem gestelzten Dialoge und das Frauenbild, das hier beschrieben wird. Werde mich aber trotzdem nach weiteren Büchern mit den Pitts umsehen.
Slow beginning that builds.Enjoyable story that makes meexcited to continue with the series.Narrator Davina Porter is so good.Clean except for Mild Foul Language.
Here's how  The Cater Street Hangman stacks up:With this first installment in Perry's series, I felt like the actual mystery was a bit removed from the story.
Tension in the Ellison house mounts as the murderer dubbed "The Cater Street Hangman" starts picking off young women in the neighborhood.
There's a tragic twist toward the end that was just all the more awful for the emotional damage the family had inflicted upon each other.If you're a fan of Raybourn's series, you should like this one.
When we meet Charlotte in this story she is a strong willed young woman whom people believe will never marry as she has no feminine or weak attributes that most men admire.
When young women are murdered near Charlotte's family home Charlotte meets Inspector Pitt, a disheveled, highly intelligent police office who she dislikes immediately.
As Pitt begins to solve the local murders he talks to Charlotte a number of different times, mostly so that he can be close to her.
Charlotte will unwittingly help Pitt solve the murders putting herself in danger but he comes to the rescue and so begins the "partnership" between Pitt and Charlotte.
The book deals quite a bit with the inequalities in moral standards for men vs.
Though Charlotte would be the lead female for this and a series of books to follow, I didn't find her that strong of a character (she is allowed to exercise her sharp tongue here and there, but mostly she's kind of flighty and not really that astute); and the lead male, Inspector Pitt, is mostly just an insufferable know-it-all, but with an apparent soft spot for Charlotte.
I suspect they balance each other out more in the books to follow, but here they are both weak characters and not all that likeable.
