https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60099.The_Worshipful_Lucia
Geez, was this written by an upper middle-class chap for the amusement of other upper middle-class folk after having read Jane Austen and Mrs. Gaskell? This is by no means the wonderful, sly, comedy of manners that Austen wrote so exquisitely, nor the lovely involvement of the world of Cranford that Mrs. Gaskell (when not feeling socially and politically motivated) wrote about. Angst-ridden social climbers, amusing to his intended audience or those who had aspirations to be that class, but not to me. I don't know why I bothered finishing it.
22. Benson, E. F. LUCIA’S PROGRESS (Originally published in the U.S. under the title, “The Worshipful Lucia.”). (1935). ****. This novel continues the adventures of Lucia and Mapp in the village of Tilling. We encounter all of the usual characters of the village: Mapp, Lucia, Georgie, Diva, Mrs. Poppitt, Lady Ambermere and Pug. In this installment, Lucia is turning fifty-years old and realizes that she has not accomplished a single stellar act in her whole life. She has managed to keep busy with
This novel continues the adventures of Lucia and Mapp in the village of Tilling.
We encounter all of the usual characters of the village: Mapp, Lucia, Georgie, Diva, Mrs. Poppitt, Lady Ambermere and Pug. In this installment, Lucia is turning fifty-years old and realizes that she has not accomplished a single stellar act in her whole life.
What finally hits her as a valuable effort is to run for councilperson on the village board.
It seems that Miss Mapp – now married – has the same idea, and they plan to run on totally opposite platforms.
The subtle humor endemic to Benson’s novels continues in the vein of P.
I thought that I had read the entire Mapp & Lucia series but nothing in this 5th entry in the series struck me as familiar. In any case, I continue to enjoy the rivalry between Miss Mapp (now Mrs. Mapp-Flint) and Lucia!
You could read any of the 6 books that have been grouped into a series called "Make Way for Lucia" as stand-alones, but I have enjoyed reading them in order.
I like these E.
F. Benson stories as much as I like P.
It is amazing how these can be stories about upper middle class British folks set in the 1920s to 1930s, and still feel like they are current tales.
I'm reading the final book, "Trouble for Lucia" now, but with confidence I can heartily recommend all of them.
As is only to be expected, as our characters move toward the late 1920s, they begin to be swept up i
Still a five-star favorite for me, several years after my first read. The endless bickering and gossip of Tilling never ceases to leave me with a great big smile on my face!In this outing Lucia and Elizabeth Mapp-Flint continue their rivalry for social domination of Tilling, both running for town council and dabbling in the stock market - and the inexhaustible Lucia takes up archeological exploration in her garden and philanthropy. Great fun and silliness among the idle, well-to-do in England in the interwar years.
The second book about Lucia's battle with Miss Mapp, now successfully Mistress Mapp-Flint, for social supremacy in Tilling. Lucia takes up archeology, the money market and politics, and her platonic romance with Georgie comes to a crisis. Just absolutely scrumptious and laced with poison, especially when Elizabeth is involved.
More Mapp and Lucia rivalry, which is really what makes these books so much fun.
E.F. Benson has found his way into my heart!This book was simply brilliant.
After so many mediocre stories I have read recently, this was incredibly refreshing.
With a huge amount of ingenuity and intelligence Benson tells the story of a little town and its quirky inhabitants, especially two ladies who are bitter rivals and yet always smile falsely at each other.
Character studies are my favorite and Benson really excels in letting his characters stumble into all kinds of innocent mishaps, bringing out the funniest of behavior.
I do hope I can read a lot more of him.
I wonder how how E.F. Benson devised the idea of including Emmeline "Lucia" Lucas and Elizabeth Mapp, both conniving, social-climbing queen bees, in the same book.
I can imagine it now: In a moment of leisure, Benson suddenly had a stroke of brilliance: Include Mrs. Lucas and Miss Mapp in the same novel and watch the fur fly!Elizabeth Mapp has long been the uncontested queen of Tilling society -- at least in her own mind; however, when Lucia takes Mapp's cottage for a two-month holiday, she can no more not dominate her social mileu than a shark can survive without swimming.
Sadly for Elizabeth, whilst things have a tendency to turn out well for Lucia, she seems to come off the worst in everything, and seems to make enemies among the locals because of her bitterness and jealousy.The nosey-ness of the characters is truly cringe-worthy, but unfortunately realistic, as any resident of a small town will testify: "This dreadful gossipy habit......if there isn't any news they invent it." That's certainly true of the town where I live!I believe everyone knows a Elizabeth and Lucia.
The fifth volume in E.F. Benson's Lucia series....
Lucia the focus of all social groups in the small English town of Tilling once again butts heads...but, in an ever-so English and polite manner, with her neighbor and rival Elizabeth Mapp.
Mapp, newly married, leads others to wrongfully believe she is pregnant.
Lucia and Mapp run against each other for the Town Council.
Lucia discovers Roman antiquities in her new garden-- or does she?
Lucia guides many into buying gold mine stocks...which doesn't work out well for Mapp.
I love this series and sorry to say that there is only one more to read.
I read this book to complete the category of “Humorous or Satirical Classic” for the Back to the Classics 2015 challenge hosted at http://karensbooksandchocolate.blogsp...
. This was by far my easiest choice for the challenge, as I have come to love this series; these books make me laugh out loud…frequently.
Lucia’s Progress is number five, so I only have one more left, but I suspect that these books will be excellent re-reads, so I am not too sad.
Life is never dull in Tilling.
Lucia is turning 50 and having a mid-life crisis, Georgie is battling a case of shingles, Elizabeth is pushing Benjy into running for public office, and Lucia decides to dabble in the stock market.
Nothing is more thrilling in Tilling than a competitive political campaign or competitive market investing.
It's interesting to read that stockbrokers were advocating "dollar cost averaging" even in 1932.
Lucia is on a roll of one success after another, making up for what she feels has been lost time, all to the chagrin of Elizabeth Mapp Flint.
I reread the Lucia novels every few years or so, and they never disappoint. The social maneuverings of Tilling (and, earlier, Riseholme) never lose their fascination. This later novel is not, perhaps, quite as fresh as the earlier ones in the series, but there is plenty to enjoy--marriage, the "wind egg", politics, Roman ruins and most importantly perhaps, the change in ownership of Mallards. If you haven't read the Mapp and Lucia series before, it is perhaps best that you start with Queen Lucia and go from there, but it isn't absolutely necessary.
As always, Benson's Lucia series is a delight, creating unexpectedly compelling comedy out of the pretty squabblings of a group of upper class villagers in 1920s Britain. The biggest disappointment here is that the relationship between Lucia and Mapp seems to have lost a bit of its bite. It's clear the Lucia is the character Benson loves the most and her latest feud with Miss Map is a rout. I enjoyed it more when the two characters were more evenly matched in their social scheming prowess.
Lucia is still in fine form, as is Tilling and all of Lucia’s foils. Maybe a touch less engaging than the first three books chronicling Lucia, but I am with Noel Coward and Nancy Mitford (among others): I will pay anything for Lucia books.
Of course, Lucia's idea of religion is donating money for a new church organ on which she can play "Moonlight Sonata" to a captive audience.Amazon is constantly adding new features (for our own good, no doubt) and before I was allowed to write my review, I had to answer a series of questions.
Benson was one of the best writers of social comedy ever.
Lucia and Georgie enter into a "Boston marriage" in which even pecks on the cheek are expressly prohibited.
Actually, Lucia gets her way a little TOO much in this book, which is why it's my least favorite of the series.
For Mrs Benjamin Mapp-Flint returns from her honeymoon in Monte Carlo in too triumphant a mood and Lucia must scheme to bring this new bride down to her proper place with plans which are Borgian in nerve, audacity and dimension.
Each format brings a new and additional dimension to the Mapp and Lucia Series.
This wonderful work is enhanced by Prunella Scales's presentation.
The main characters are instantly recognizable as they exchange slights, slurs and maudlin compliments.
The content and delivery are laugh-out-loud funny, with the narrator outdoing herself on the idiosyncrasies and specially cultivated foreign accents of many of the English characters.
S.G.B. Winner of AUDIOFILE Earphones Award ©AudioFileRead by Prunella Scales
This is a brilliant reading of Lucia's Progress, only spoilt by the fact that it is abridged.
Why on earth couldn't Miriam Margolyes have been given the whole book to record?
Hers is the perfect voice for it, and I now find myself in the ridiculous situation of having two copies of it on audio - the full book, read by someone else, and this version because I can't resist it.
Machinations abound and Lucia is, if anything, even more outrageous than ever.
(This is my second time reading Lucia's Progress; this time around, it was a shared read, and we dragged it out for a while.
Fortunately, it's very easy to slip into after an absence of a few days.) Lucia and Company never fail to entertain!
Rejoining the characters is like reuniting with a circle of old friends.
They are old friends that tend to snipe at one another, gossip, and (gently) back-stab-- and some of them aren't so much "friends" as they are rivals-- but it's amusing and cozy gossip and sniping.
I slightly preferred some of the previous Lucia books to this one, but it is still thoroughly pleasing stuff of its kind.
Far less amusing than any of the other books in this "Mapp & Lucia" series. But certainly action-packed and full of surprises (view spoiler)[not least the grand wedding of Lucia & Georgie (which I rather felt was a mistake and quite unnecessary to the plot) (hide spoiler)]Unless you're going to read all 6 of the "Mapp & Lucia" (in order) then I would recommend sticking just to the excellent "Queen Lucia" and "Mapp & Lucia".
Another fabulous turn by Lucia. . i enjoyed that this book allowed you more insight into her own thinking rather than people's sharp observations of her continual triumphs and successes. Never have i enjoyed a book with so little plot and such intra-village intrigue. Soo looking forward to Benson's last Lucia book--and the two estate-commissioned sequels.
The passive-aggressive schemes and hilarious one-upmanships of the small town cast of characters in this series are endlessly delightful. Fans of Barbara Pym, Gaskell's Cranford, and the sharp wit of the Dowager Countess of Grantham would enjoy.
This is a continuation of the Lucia series and it's just as entertaining and witty as the rest of the books. This is a nice quick and light hearted read for anyone that is amused by english humor and social commentary.
These books are just bloody marvellous. I now find myself rooting for Lucia. While she is a fake social climber with delusions of grandeur who likes to think she is cultured, at least she is not spiteful and malicious like Mapp. The two of them vying for social supremacy is hilarious.
The battle between Mapp and Lucia continues. The marriage to Georgie is really quite bizarre and led me to read up on the author's own sexuality. There are some very strange marriages/relationships in the books generally and only one couple have a child!All part of the charm though
Awful!
I just love these books. This is the 5th of 6 (I'm not including the later follow-ups written by other authors), and I'll be rereading these throughout my life, I'm pretty certain. LOVE!
Loved the whole series. Looking for something like it now.
