https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/783127.The_7_Habits_Of_Highly_Effective_Teens
The 7 Problems of Sean Covey's Highly Ineffective Book:1.
All his suggestions are generic, which makes Covey's job, as the author, to recover the significance of these problems and make readers realize the importance of them.
I honestly think that Covey was so busy conjuring so many anecdotes that he failed to realize that some of them contradict the ideas that he presents.I've gone through some 5-star reviews, and I cannot for the life of me fathom why this book is liked by so many people.
من الكتب الي لازم ترجع لها حتى بعد ماتقراه !! لو أتكلم من اليوم لبكره ماراح أوفي الكتاب حقه! قليل الكتب الي تأثر فيني وفي تفكيري . الأجمل أسلوبه في السرد بسيييطه وتوصل القلب بسرعه . الكتاب مرتب جداً إخراجاً وأسلوباً وسرداًمهم جداً يقراه الجميييع حتى المبتدئين في القراءه  ، بعد الكتاب مستحيل ماتتغير نظرتك للأمور للأفضل .ببساطه .. سأجعل العادات السبع معلقه في ذهني دوماً . وبدأت فعلياً في تغيير نفسي نحو الأفضل بمساعدة من الكتاب .
A great book about life in general. Adds neat stories, quotes and cartoons. Great for middle school students.
They forced me to read this book (I was not impressed when the put it in my hands) but after the first page i was hooked.
I was so impressed with this book it's crazy.
I was just incredibly surprised how easy it was to read, since usually when you pick up one of these "how-to" books, they're dry and not interesting.
Well, not this book!
It's great to say the least, I've already got my friends reading it, and they agree :) If every teen and pre-teen read this book, our future would look so much brighter.
قرأت هذا الكتاب عندما كنت في المرحله الثانويه , ساعدني كثيرا لأنه كما أحب ان اطلق عليه " كتاب شامل " .. ليس فقط يهتم بتكوين العلاقات الايجابيه مع الناس وانما ايضا يشرح عن كيفيه تقسيم الأولويات , فمن هذا الكتاب تعلمت تقسيم جدول الاولويات الى هذا اليوم ..كتاب مازلت انصح به لكل مراهق ان يقرأه ..
In addition, its pictures decorate the pages, the quotes prove illustrate and explains the views, which makes it really fun to read.I highly recommend reading this enjoyable book to find the perfect life waiting for you to jump right into.This book is the your straight way to heaven on earth.
Some of the tools that would help you deal with life are: "The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens or, said another way, the seven characteristics that happy and successful teens the world over have in common," quoted from the writer.Amazingly, Covey seems to be considering his audience very well.
I was still quite jaded when I approached this book and some people might roll their eyes at certain chapters like I did, but to be honest I think everyone can take away something important from reading the text.In my case, a certain chapter which was marked really made the whole world make sense to me.
There are certain things, people, events that you have absolutely no control over.
It made me finally feel like I could be in control of my life at a time when all I wanted was to make it all go away.
لو أتكلمت من هنا لبكره مش هقدر أوصف أد إيه الكتاب ده مفيد ، بيكلمك بواقعية جدا يشدك من أول فصل.كتاب غير و هيغير فيا حاجات كتير ، فعلا لقيت نفسى فيه و زعلت جدا لما خلصته :)*ملحوظة : الكتاب ده لازم يتقرى أكتر من مرة و فصل فصل يتمسك و تحاول تطبقه فى حياتك.
I cannot say that this book was of any benefit to me.
It seemed as if throughout the entire book, all the author did was preach rather than give any real advice.
I did not feel that the author was qualified to give advice to teenagers that are going through things such as family problems, depression and financial struggles because, based on what he wrote about himself, he didn't seem to go through any of this.
Telling teenagers not to smoke, drink, have sex or look at porn isn't going to stop them from doing so.
At times, the author suggests overly saccharine and simplistic solutions to problems that are often more complicated.
At others, the author seems to have a keen grasp of subject matter, and provides really good tips and in-depth study of problem areas for teens.
He is friendly, attempts to be engaging, and seems to know what he's talking about.Key issue: Self-esteem, work ethic, time management, peer pressure, parental relationsOther interesting information: I honestly think that a good young adult novel could accomplish the exact same thing as this book, only in a more interactive, discussion format with the class.
في هذا الفيديو تلخيص لكتاب العادات السبع للناس الأكثر فاعلية ..
العادات السبع نفسها بالكتابين لكن بمناقشات أبسط في هذا الكتاب فـ من أراد الاطلاع على المحتوى فليشاهد هذه الحلقة القصيرة https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4VTl...------------------كتاب ملهم ومنظم للحياة..
أنا القوة) و تسليط الضوء ع دائرتي التحكم وعدم التحكم ...
تدفعك للتطوير من نفسك وأنت مطمن ومسلم -الشخص الوحيد الذي يمكنه أن يعوقك هو أنت نفسك- ...2_حدد أهدافك ذهنيا مسبقا(أنا قائد حياتي)3_إدارة اﻷولويات(قوة سأفعل وقوة لن أفعل)4_فكر بطريقة فوز -فوز 5_الانصات الصادق ..
وتجارب شين الشخصية وتجارب المراهقين والرسوم الكركاتيرية ..كتاب متكامل ككل شحني بطاقة إيجابية و"شحذ منشاري" ..
I spent my whole summer reading this book along with my other classmates who might feel the same.
Okay, I think the majority of the world's teens will not read this.
This is the 21st century people, teens don't want a book telling them how to manage their lives.
If they can't even listen to their parents what makes you think they'll listen to a book?
The more the years progress, I think teens will just do whatever they want since parents will start being from this generation.
I just wanted to put it aside and read another book that actually interests me.
This is possibly the best book I have ever read.It has amazing principle for living the effective life, and whenever I read it, I feel like all that Sean talks about is within reach, is achievable.
I absolutely love the cartoons of gangly teens that riddle the book, illustrating what's being discussed.
Sean's style of writing in this book is so hilarious, and it makes an enjoyable read.
It's not just some self-help book that preaches at you on how to change, but more of a journey to greatness.
The book is full of other people's stories, and this helps in making it intriguing and easy reading.
I listened to the audiotape on my way to Chicago, and I nearly drove off the road.
Covey merely restates everything our mothers taught us: prioritize, do your best, and play nicely.
While the 7 habits are nice ideas and good goals to strive for, they're common sense.
And there's something about the way Covey delivers his material that makes me cringe.
He's overly simplistic and sugarcoats his advice, hardly acknowledging the difficult and emotional situations in which teens often find themselves.
His ideas sound nice, but he's not realistic enough to be effective.
I wouldn't expect teens to be overly impressed with this book.
The first couple of Habits were really helpful and I guess you could say "touching" in some occasions, but that didn't save this book from its downfall.
And this is not meant to take away from those who found this book very helpful, but I thought that a lot of these habits were very surface level and I wish the author would have touched upon some of them a little more.
If you are a teen or even someone in their late teen years, I feel like this book could very well help out a lot of people.
اللقاء الرابع لنادي بخطوةاسم الكتاب : العادات السبع للمراهقين الأكثر فعاليةاسم المؤلف: شين كوفيمقدمه عن الكتاب :كونك مراهقاً أمر رائع ومثير للتحدي.
في كتابه "العادات السبع للمراهقين الأكثر فعالية"، يطبّق المؤلف شين كوفي المبادئ الأساسية للعادات السبع الشهيرة على المراهقين والقضايا العسيرة وقرارات الحياة المتغيرة التي يواجهونها.
يقدم شين كوفي دليلاً خطوة بخطوة، بأسلوب ممتع، لمساعدة المراهقين في تحسين صورتهم أمام أنفسهم، وفي بناء علائق صداقة قوية، وتحقيق أهدافهم، وغير ذلك كثير، فإن هذا الكتاب يزخر بالصور والأفكار، والاقتباسات، وقصص مثيرة لا تُصدق عن مراهقين حقيقيين من جميع أنحاء العالم.
كتاب رائع بكل ما للكلمة من معنىكنت قد قرأت جزئاً من كتاب ستيفن كوفي: العادات السبع للأشخاص الاكثر فعاليةولكنني شعرت بالملل بعد قراءة الثلاثين صفحة الأولىأما مع كتاب الابن شين فلا مكان لمللالكتاب يعطيك في البداية دفعة معنوية كبيرةثم يبدأ شيئاً فشيئاً بتهيئتك للخوض في غمار هذه التجربة الممتعةالتي تعلمك أن الحياة قصيرة جداً لنضيعهاأحس أنني سأتغير كلياً بعد الانتهاء من قراءة الكتابما زلت أقرأ في الفصل الأول وسأجرب العادة الأولىثم أتابع التجربة فصلاً تلو الفصل وعادة تلو العادةوعند الانتهاء من الكتاب سأعود لكم بما استفدته من هذه التجربة الرائعة بإذن الله
The author tries to be real hip in that jeans-jeans-shirt-jeans-jacket 90s sort of way that made us all smell the teen spirit.Obvious hippy bullshit. Also it reads WAY too young for teens.
To this book may is the best influence on my academics. I really enjoyed it and I hope more and more teens read this book
I decided to read this book just because I cannot help with the thought that I waste my teen by not reading the book.
So I should use my last teen wisely.
Just kidding.
For the first few pages, I underestimated the book, thinking at this age I' ve known all of these already.
But it turned out that I am really in love with the book.
First because, I have discovered something that is worthwhile.
Second, the author and the book are so entertaining; the ideas are clearly structured.
I am planning to reread it.
I'd recommend this to everyone.
I rated it one star because I think this was a book that I would not read in my free time, and found myself bored at times while reading it. I don't recommend this book because of those reasons.
تمسك بالأمل
I gave this book 4 stars because it was a good book in my opinion. It had ideas about how to help you be a teen and it backed up its ideas. The stories in it helped all the ideas and helped understand them. I would recommend this book to people my age because it was made for kids our age and it had some very good ideas about what it is like to be a teen.
My mom actually bought me this book when I was a teen and I never read it, which is unfortunate because it is actually a good read, especially since I usually hate self-help books.
The book is written in a style that teens can enjoy though.
I think this would a great book to read a little bit each night so that a reader wouldn’t feel too overwhelmed and then just completely stop reading.
Reading this book is a process – just like becoming a highly effective teen!
Exact rating: 4.5If you know me well, you'd know that I'm not a huge fan of self-help books, but this, I thought it was brilliant. It hits right on the center of a problem. It was surprisingly funny and I loved it! His sarcasm and humor were AMAZING. Every teen should read this book. No kidding.Challenge completed: A book that was supposed to read in school but didn't (And I'm reading for school again)
كيف اوفي هذا الكتاب حقه لقد قراته عندما كنت في الصف الثالث الثانوي لاانسي عندما استعرته من مكتبه المدرسه وصورت منه ورق كثير واحتفظت به ولاانسي عندما ذهبت وسالت عليه لاشتريه لكن للاسف لم اجده كتاب رائع وددت لو احتفظت به طوال حياتي شين كوفي لن انسي كلماتك التي قراتها في كتابك التي بدت تتضح لي الآن ونصائحك التي بدت لي غريبه لكن مع الوقت فهمت كم كنت بسيط في كتابك !احببته كثيرا وها انا الآن تخرجت من الجامعه لكن سيظل كتابك مؤثر بداخلي احبك شين كثيرا
This was a nice guide book as to how you can make your life better by controlling your emotions and acting the correct way in specific situations for teenagers I think that they are very helpful and you can easily implant them in your life using small steps that are indicated in the book. There isnt much else I can say about a self-help book that I liked. I highly recommend it.
This was a nice guide book as to how you can make your life better by controlling your emotions and acting the correct way in specific situations for teenagers I think that they are very helpful and you can easily implant them in your life using small steps that are indicated in the book. There isn´t much else I can say about a self-help book that I liked. I highly recommend it.
قرأته حين كنت مراهقة والحمد لله ، ويبدو أنني بحاجة الآن لقراءة العادات السبع للعجائز الاكثر فعالية .
this book is pretty hard for me to review/rate.
It has some great tips and advice in it for learning how to better organize your life and the things in it, and the overall message is pretty much "positive" and "proactive".
Those are all great things, and definitely beneficial for teens to understand.
I, for one, did get a few helpful tips out of it.
I would read this review for a good summary of my thoughts about this book.
Like this reviewer said, the book of Proverbs will pretty much tell you the same advice for a successful life!
This book has many touched stories. But conclusion is little bit boring. In short, this book is worth reading. “Wanna fast go alone, wanna far go together”
