https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129377.An_Introduction_to_Zen_Buddhism
به خاطر همين هم تصميم گرفتم به جاى كتاب هايى از اين دست، شروع كنم به خواندن كتاب هاى عملى تر، مثل "ذن در هنر عکاسی خیابانی" كه امشب از فيديبو گرفتم.٣.نويسنده در مكتب خاصى از ذن پرورش پيدا كرده كه به معماهاى "كوآن" اهميت زيادى مى دهند.
به خاطر همين هم بيشتر حجم كتاب به حكايت هاى ذن و معماهاى كوآن اختصاص دارد، و اين خواندن كتاب را ساده مى كند.
معمولاً ما به خاطر تشويش هاى ذهنى، نمى توانيم در لحظۀ حاضر به طور تمام و كمال زندگى كنيم، و به خاطر همين فعاليت هامان (شغل‌مان، غذا خوردن‌مان، مصاحبت با دوستان‌مان و...) هميشه از لحاظ كيفى و معنوى ناقص هستند (هر چند از لحاظ كمّى و مادى شايد كامل باشند).
Интересувам се от дзен будизма от години и чак сега осъзнавам, че никога не бях чел книга за него.
Книгата на Сузуки е кратка, ясна, а дзен е разказан от най-добрата гледна точка, от която може да се направи това.
Сузуки минава през тях не като един обикновен разказвач, който се е ровил два-три месеца, че дори и години в темата за новата си книга.
Може би той е бил най-чувствителният от тримата, затова и винаги се е плъзгал по този начин през реалността.
Препоръчвам тази книга на всеки, който иска да разбере нещо повече за дзен будизма.
The book, in the true spirit of Zen, treats even ideas as stumbling blocks on the path to enlightenment, but again, they are necessary as 'moon-pointing fingers'.
If you have an interest in Zen or maybe just the deliciously anti-European 'philosophy' (for lack of a better word to convey a way that is so clearly anti-philosophical), read this book.
Any book on Zen had better be!
But most importantly- Suzuki is well acquainted with the traps that will naturally befall any logical mind as it reads through this book and he does a fantastic job walking one through it.
Suzuki clearly distinguishes Zen from other forms of Buddhism and from other religions, especially Christianity.
He explains why Zen abjures the notion of God. Zen is concerned only with the here and now.
Its discipline is to enable full perception of the total Reality, the reality beyond dualisms.
"Zen is emphatically a matter of personal experience; if anything can be called radically empirical, it is Zen. No amount of reading, no amount of teaching, no amount of contemplation will ever make one a Zen master.
Life itself must be grasped in the midst of its flow; to stop it for examination and analysis is to kill it, leaving its cold corpse to be embraced."
Like Zen and the contents thereof, it's wispy. It didn't get good until the end when DT discusses satori, which is the crux of this work, but upon my second reading I do see that you need to build up to it. The whole thing is cryptic, but that's inevitable when you try to expound on Zen. To summarize everything: you can't talk about Zen because as soon as you start talking about Zen it stops becoming Zen. Boom. Ineffable.
Затова Дзен е категорично против всякакви религиозни условности.”„Ако човек отвори уста, за да изрече утвърждение или отрицание, той е загубен.
Но човек не може винаги да чака естествения ход — той обича да се намесва, за добро или за зло.
В Дзен това означава да не се допусне въвличане в интелектуални упражнения, нито във философски разсъждения, които често са безсмислени и пълни със софистика.”„— Когато съзнанието не се помещава в определен обект, казваме, че то пребивава там, където не съществува постоянна обител.— Какво значи да не се помещава в определен обект?— Това значи да не пребивава в двуначалието добро — зло, съществуване — несъществуване, дух — материя.
You are not living as you ought to live, you are suffering under the tyranny of circumstances; you are feeling a constraint of some sort, and you lose your independence." - D.T. Suzuki"As to attaining the goal and taking hold of the thing itself, this must be done by one's own hands, for nobody else can do it for one." - D.T. Suzuki"I allowed my mind without restraint to think of what it pleased, and my mouth to talk about whatever it pleased; I then forgot whether 'this and not-this' was mine or others', whether the gain or loss was mine or others'; nor did I know whether Lao-shang-shih was my teacher and Pa-kao was my friend.
Short but very dense. I'm not sure if it's because this was written many years ago, or because DT Suzuki just has a very formal writing style, but I found it really hard to read. Eventually I resorted to reading just a few pages at a time, as a kind of daily dose of zen. For that it was pretty good-- he packs in a lot of good anecdotes, koans, and stories into each chapter. And one more thing-- skip Jung's introduction-- it's even more difficult to read than Suzuki's prose at its worst.
This was assigned reading for the Senior Seminar capstone course for Religious Studies majors at Grinnell College. It is basically an introduction to Rinzai Zen Buddhism and is constituted by edited essays dating up until 1934.
But they will keep silence, not only out of shyness but because they know that any attempt to convey their experiences to others would be hopeless." As a plug for his own field of work, as justifiably so, he points out that "the only movement within our culture which partly has, and partly should have, some understanding of these aspirations is psychotherapy." (for more, read Psychotherapy, East and West by Alan Watts)Everything is Zen. Zen is radically concrete and anti-abstraction: "personal experience, therefore, is everything in Zen. No ideas are intelligible to those who have no backing of experience." Truth is delivered through lived sermons, paradoxical statements known as koans.
It`s funny that the more I read Heidegger`s Being and Time, the more I think that postmodern theology is close to the doctrine and practise of Japanese Zen Buddhism.
For example Zen teaches that life must be freed from any purpose or meaning, it teaches not any notion about personal God nor sacred community.
Daily life is spiritual.For me all of this resembles Heidegger`s idea of ontical dimension of Dasein, where the meaning of being is partly derived from our engagement with `the furnitures of the world` which is daily life.
Perhaps the most readable of Suzuki's treatises on Zen (thus the term "Introduction"). Clear and surprisingly humorous and instant, just like Zen itself. Suzuki takes great care to form an ethos out of the parables. These modern lessons run the risk of seeming like a bygone era, but they would serve us especially well in the here and now.The unexpected but rigorous becoming of bliss.
“Учителю, ще се преродя ли някога за нов живот?”“Животът е огън. Пепелта никога не се превръщаобратно в дърво.”Това стихотворение не е от книгата, но прочитът й ме накара да го напиша, както и още няколко други.
Everyone understands Zen and no one understands Zen. There’s really no way to explain the absence of antithesis, a concept that is crucial to Zen, without resorting to antithesis.
Suzuki, however, does his best in the medium available to him, by relying primarily on examples to illustrate the absence of the either/or “dualism”.
That his examples may appear nonsensical to many readers exemplifies the hold dualism has on human understanding.
In its understanding of dualism’s logical illogicality, Zen is light-years ahead of human intelligence in coming to terms with itself; whether or not its approach to the threat of nihilism (in the final chapter) is best left to reader’s discretion.
"The truth is, Zen is extremely elusive as far as its outward aspects are concerned; when you think you have caught a glimpse of it, it is no more there; from afar it looks so approachable, but as soon as you come near it you see it even further away from you than before." - D.
T. Suzuki"Personal experinece, therefore, is everything in Zen." - D.
T. Suzuki"Zen is provokingly evasive." - D.
T. Suzuki"This quietude and silence, however, does not point to mere idleness or inactivity." - D.
T. Suzuki"Zen teaches nothing.
Whatever teachings there are in Zen, they come out of one's own mind.
We teach ourselves; Zen merely points the way." - D.
This mumbo jumbo is complete nonsense. It even anticipates that a lot of people will consider it nonsensical when it claims that those who do just don't understand it, but then it goes on to add to the nonsense by claiming that if you understand it then you really don't understand it and if you don't understand it then you profoundly understand it. Honestly, I find myself constantly flabbergasted that anyone over the age of two can possibly be so gullible as to believe in religion, any religion.
Aside from The Way of Chuang Tzu, the only book on spirituality I've read that didn't make me want to laugh or hurl. Zen is like one hand clapping, only louder. What else can I say? It's Zen, bitches.
И тази си струва много! Поне за мен.
A brilliant and logical exposé into the fact that Zen cannot be understood using brilliance and logic.
It's like the wind. It's like nothing.
Science works with space and time, and Suzuki writes, "So long as one is conscious of space and time, Zen will keep a respectable distance from you."I think he means a type of self-consciousness which is far too invested in categories, in distinctions that slide into a way of using our brains that is all too logical.
Speaking poetically, Suzuki writes, "Life, according to Zen, ought to be lived as a bird flies through the air or a fish swims in the water." Only humans live, aware of themselves.One way to begin to break down the reliance of logic is through the use of koans, questions or riddles that seem to have no answer.
"ذن میتواند برای معرفی خود چنین بگوید: نه این، نه آن و نه هیچ چیز دیگر"؛ جایی در کتاب در مورد کتابها
"ذن می‌تواند برای معرفی خود چنین بگوید: نه این، نه آن و نه هیچ چیز دیگر"؛ جایی در کتاب در مورد کتاب‌های ذن می‌گه "شرح ابهام‌گونه‌ای‌ست که درباره ابهامات دیگر داده شده است"، خودشم حداقل برای افراد نوآشنایی مثل من کمابیش همین‌طوره؛ فرق ذن با سایر فرق بودایی رو بیان می‌کنه و اصرار داره که تحت هیچ ضابطه‌ای نباید ذن رو با فلسفه خلط کرد.بعضی از عبارات و مضامین کتاب:ذن درصدد رها کردن فرد از اسارت و بندگی منطقه؛ ذن از تکرار و تقلید از هر نوعش متنفره چون اون رو کشنده‌ی اصالت می‌دونه، برای اینه که ذن هیچوقت توضیح نمی‌ده و به عقیده‌ اش زندگی تاب تبیین رو نمیاره.
Jung basically says that Westerners cannot possibly ever understand Zen Buddhism because we lack the cultural context (he doesn't make this comparison, but I think of it like how native Cantonese speakers have a hard time vocalizing some sounds in English and I'm sure vice versa).
Moreover, he says that Westerners wouldn't want to try to attain enlightenment (he seems to think we lack the dedication/commitment).
Whether any of this is true or not, I think Jung misses the point.
As Zen concerns a search for insight into the truth, I (someone trained in science, mathematics and logical reasoning) was looking for insight into Zen. I found it, to an extent, by reading this book.
It also seemed to me that the concept of "satori" is concerned with a realization of one's true nature, and is thus so personal that each instance of it is exclusive to the one who experiences it and can't be expressed for the understanding of others.I am not at all sure, however, that my understanding has anything to do with the actual truth of Zen. I came away from the book, in some ways, even more baffled.
It is so hard to write a book (or a text) about something (Zen) where you try to argue and explain why you cannot write a book about it.
I am still new to the concept and far away from realizing its value (satori), but I thoroughly enjoyed the book and the introduction to Zen teachings.
But, as I said before, the main emphasis is that “if you have to explain Zen - you don’t have it.
And if you have it - you cannot explain it”.I would recommend the book to anybody who seeks questions to ovcupy their minds during meditation (although the book specifically warns the reader not to do that).


An important part of the fabric of the work of DT SuzukiThis book is not a repetition or restatement of what Suzuki has taught us elsewhere. It is an integral part. I wonder how someone who knew do many languages, did so many translations, and wrote so many original works, had time for zazen.
Esse livro começa a entrar nas profundezas do zen-budismo. Não é uma leitura muito fácil devido à certa complexidade do assunto. No entanto, é possível ter uma leve intuição do que é realmente o zen, já que é tão difícil defini-lo.É uma leitura rápida e instigante, principalmente o prefácio que foi escrito pelo sempre fascinante Jung.
This book did allow some insight into what Zen is. I read it a couple of times and even though it did improve my understanding of this idea i found it difficult to follow and quite vague. Nevertheless, its a start. I imagine that there are books on Zen out there that would work better for me.
