https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114166.Devil_in_Winter
Oh. Your. GOD. Sebastian St. Vincent? Yeah.  That's really all I can say. I keep rereading parts of this book because the man just...he's just...I mean...words are just...not...how can I....express...no...
And how was he ever going to find love with shy, timid Evie?Well, after reading It Happened One Autumn and seeing how she transformed Marcus, Lord Westcliff from a stuffy, uptight arrogant know-it-all, into a sexy, to-die-for-hero, I should've had a little faith--I totally fell for St. Vincent!
Evie is desperate to break free from her abusive relatives, and figures if she marries a man who is powerful yet in dire need of her money, she would stand a chance.
I want to share a bed with you every night, and to have your children."**Sebastian: "My love is upon you..." (*sniff*)To sum up...romance lovers everywhere, do yourselves a favor and read this book--no--read this series!
5 Reformed Rake Stars *Spoilers*Devil in Winter was AMAZING! I loved it. It's my favorite book of the series! Evie and Sebastian's story was even better than I expected and I expected a lot. From beginning to end it captivated me. The plot was entertaining. The hero and heroine charming and their love epic! Devil in Winter is now tied with Seduce Me at Sunrise for my favorite Lisa Kleypas book. “I’m offering to marry you,” she said. “I want your protection. My father is too ill and weak to help
Evie discovering her self worth and being brave enough to love Sebastian was a wonderful thing to read.
Sebastian and Evie's love story was a beautiful one.
I loved the way Sebastian supported his wife and took care of her.
I want to make love to you, Evie, as I have never done with anyone before.”-Sebastian 
I want to share a bed with you every night, and to have your children."-EvieBesides the awesome relationship between Evie and Sebastian in this book you have the supportive and sweet friendship of the wallflowers.
I also loved how Westcliff and Sebastian started to rebuild their friendship.
She treated herself with worth and that was what Sebastian needed from a woman, for a rake who could have any women he wanted (except for Lillian, a lesson he learned well in Autumn).
Evie sees something in St. Vincent, and isn't afraid to work toward bringing that out.
If there was any shortcoming with this book, I wish it had more love scenes (the passion is fiery between Evie and St. Vincent, I wanted more of those scenes), but otherwise this is a wonderful book and my favorite in the series.
Evie[image error]St. Vincent[image error]
''How is Sebastian St. Vincent today?'' was the text message I had received this morning after my boyfriend had left for work.
''He's fine thank you.'' Was my reply with a huge grin on my face.
''Are you moaning his name?'' was his next reply.
''No, boyfriend, just yours with his picture in my mind.'' ''He's blond, you don't like blonds.'' This was beginning to look like a full attack on my fantasies.
''I'm on models.com trying to find myself a face for him.'' '':) Have a nice day sweets, I love you very much, don't forget to eat your lunch.'' Yeah, this book really is that good.
5 StarsAUDIO book review  Sometimes the fractures in two separate souls become the very hinges that held them together.   Why? Why have I not read more historical romance? Because if they're anything like this book? *happy sigh*A ruthless, immoral rake that does whatever he wants no matter the cost. A beautiful wallflower in a desperate situation, willing to make a deal with the devil. This book was absolute perfection.The narrator was fantastic with doing various accents and intonations, which
Why have I not read more historical romance?
Because if they're anything like this book?
This book was absolute perfection.The narrator was fantastic with doing various accents and intonations, which I loved.
She made him sound like some sort of pompous ass villain from an episode of Monty Python.
Watching Sebastian slowly and unwillingly fall for the beautiful Evie.
If you haven't read many historicals like me and want to dip your toes in the genre, you really can't go wrong with this one.
A beautiful, touching and wonderfully written romance that will stay with me for a long time!Find me on:
He experienced the longest, hardest climax of his life… memories of other women were banished permanently from his mind… there was only Evie, her playful fingers and frolicsome mouth causing him an agony of pleasure like nothing he ever felt before.”#3: A Great Romantic Hero Knows His Heroine Is Unique & Irreplaceable.“I’m tired of countless evenings of repetitive gossip and tepid flirtation.
However, if you’re looking for a low angst, sweet romance featuring a leading man that possesses all the traits you dream of in a romantic hero… then The Devil in Winter by Lisa Kleypas is the romance for you.
Why does everyone love this book?At least finally we have a genuine rake here – meaning a total selfish, overbearing asshole.
In a way it all makes sense, she would gravitate towards overbearing assholes, while he enjoys being one AND getting praise for being a little better than her fucked-up family.So the shy, stuttering heroine (who slips in and out of her character throughout the whole book) approaches the vicious rake and makes him an offer he can’t refuse.
But there is his virgin and he is gonna love her the best he knows how, meaning, by being a controlling, overbearing asshole.
Sometimes the fractures in two separate souls became the very hinges that held them together.”  Devil in Winter is probably the most hyped historical romance novel I’ve ever come across, and while I really enjoyed it, I didn’t love LOVE it like everyone else did.
Once her home situation becomes life threatening she approaches Sebastian St. Vincent with a proposition: marriage.
Everyone knows that.”  I think this is one of the best historical romances I’ve read, but as I said before I didn’t love it quite like everyone else.
10 Second-Favorite-Book-of-all-Time STARS!!!!!!! My love is upon you.  This isn’t your ordinary romance. It’s real. It’s dry. It’s cold….like winter. The perfect book for curling up in a big comfy chair with some English breakfast tea (my favorite) while it’s raining or snowing outside (or you can just read this book all year long, like me). Sometimes the fractures in two separate souls become the very hinges that held them together.  Lord Sebastian St. Vincent is not a good man. He is a man who
He is desperate enough to attempt to kidnap a friend of Evie’s to force her to marry him (the previous book in the series).
I love that she is the one to make the marriage proposition to Sebastian, knowing that it would only be a marriage of convenience.
This book is much like Jane Eyre (which is my favorite story of all time).
I want to make love to you, Evie, as I have never done with anyone before.
If you are looking for epic love, this is the book to read!!!!Find me on
3.5 stars Nature had squandered an unreasonable quantity of male beauty on this undeserving creature. This was a re-read for me, having first read it when it came out in 2006, it was a little different this time around.The Devil in Winter is amazingly popular. It has been often voted as readers' most popular romance novel. And its hero, Sebastian, Lord St Vincent readers' favourite romance hero. Ever. Its popularity, I think, is due almost entirely to its hero, Sebastian, and the pairing with th
My main problems with The Devil in Winter were that it wasn't quite as wonderful as I remembered, mainly due to my disappointment that St Vincent wasn't really the villainous hero I'd thought, the sometimes flowery writing, and the lack of remorse and apology from the hero to Lillian.The Badboy...More Boy than BadAh, no...unfortunately not.When I'm 
O_o (hide spoiler)]Forgive Me?(view spoiler)[In the previous book, It Happened One Autumn, St Vincent kidnapped and threatened to rape the heroine, Lillian, Evie's friend.
I did like the pairing of Sebastian and Evie; and St Vincent was charming, but for me, not outstanding.
Ms. Kleypas wrote these moments with such tenderness, it was impossible not to shed tears right along with Evie.We also see Sebastian, Lord St. Vincent - yes, the Lord St. Vincent, villain extraordinaire from It Happened One Autumn - as he struggles to hold his defenses against the woman who has, despite his best efforts, found her way into his heart.
I loved how he cared for Evie, stumbling and fumbling his way through understanding these new, frightening emotions and learning how to act on them.For me, the true joy in this novel came as the self-deprecating St. Vincent and the timid wallflower, Evie, cast off their pasts and took a chance for a future filled with light, love and happiness ever after.
Everything has already been said about this top favourite, and there are already tons of great reviews here on Goodreads covering both ends of the scale, so I won't go into storyline details, but as you can see by my rating, I happily fall in the category of readers who have utterly loved Devil in Winter.The "marriage of convenience", the "opposites attract" and the "reformed rake" tropes are probably as old as the genre itself and have been done innumerable times before, though rarely as engagingly as I've found here.
greatest romance novel hero. possibly of all time.
5++ stars – Historical Romance It’s no wonder that The Devil in Winter is a Kleypas fan favorite and historical romance reader’s dream because the beautiful, touching, and evocative love story of awkwardly shy wallflower with profound, quiet inner strength, Evangeline Jenner, and dashing libertine and unscrupulous, villainous rake Sebastian, Viscount St. Vincent, is absolute magic.
I think this quote from Marcus, Lord Westcliff, in The Devil in Winter, pondering the mystery of Evie and Sebastian’s romance, explains it best.“The situation was extraordinary.
However, Westcliff had learned that the mysteries of attraction could not always be explained through logic.
Sencillamente MARAVILLOSO. Esta lectura me ha gustado más aún que las previas (que han sido varias en un año...) y de verdad que no nos puedo expresar el sentimiento de felicidad que me corre por las venas con esta historia, es de ésas que logran emocionarme con cada palabra que leo. Mi vida lectora es más feliz teniendo en ella a Sebastian St. Vincent. (Y para más fangirleo, pinchad en el enlace de abajo y leed nuestra opinión en el blog!) Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro 5 maravillo
Sencillamente MARAVILLOSO. Esta lectura me ha gustado más aún que las previas (que han sido varias en un año...) y de verdad que no nos puedo expresar el sentimiento de felicidad que me corre por las venas con esta historia, es de ésas que logran emocionarme con cada palabra que leo. Mi vida lectora es más feliz teniendo en ella a Sebastian St. Vincent. (Y para más fangirleo, pinchad en el enlace de abajo y leed nuestra opinión en el blog!)
  Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
5 maravillosas estrellitas. No podía ser de otro modo
I was all ready to read Devil in Spring book 3 in The Ravenels Series when I found out the hero is the son of Evie & Sebastian from this book.
Ms. Kleypas writes her books so they can be read as standalones but if you want you can read them in order to see how other characters in series join into the stories.
I only have one wallflower left to read about before I can move onto Cam’s book.
Can be read as standalones but it's recommended reading the series in order.Prequel:
Can be read as standalones but it's recommended reading the series in order.Novella:
4.5 Reformed Rake StarsI was really ready not to like this book. I was totally loving St. Vincent in the last one until….well you know what he did. “He didn’t seem to take it well, my borrowing of his betrothed.”“You k-kidnapped her,” Evangeline countered calmly. “‘Borrowing’ implies that you intended to give her back.” But it seems that our little stammering Evie is just as desperate if not even more so than St. Vincent and needs a husband quick. Evie has way more strength and gumption than I h
But it seems that our little stammering Evie is just as desperate if not even more so than St. Vincent and needs a husband quick.
I grew to like him again quite soon as I’m thrown with Evie into their marriage of convenience.
Also it was quite obvious from very early that St. Vincent did care a lot for Evie, even though he never knew how to say the words he showed her with all of his deeds.
I enjoyed the growth of Sebastian St. Vincent and I loved how Evie really came into her own away from her dreadful family.
***** 5 Mi Amor es Tuyo STARS*****   —Quiero satisfacerte por completo —dijo él tras agachar la frente hasta apoyarla en la suya—. Dejar mi huella en tu alma. Quiero darte más placer del que puedas imaginar. Quiero hacer el amor contigo, Evie, como nunca lo he hecho con ninguna mujer.   Sebastián te doy acceso a mi cuenta bancaria y ¿Te casarías conmigo?Y obviamente la respuesta es un sí.Y llegamos al turno de otra Wallflowers, la más tímida de todas, con su respectiva conquista nada más ni men
Creo que hasta ahorita es mi libro favorito y no sé si pueda superarlo el de Daisy, el de Marcus está casi pisándole los talones, es una historia bastante divertida, fresca, romántica y muy tierna.Evie y Sebastián como pareja fueron perfectos, como ella con su ternura e inocencia fue quebrantado las corazas del duro y frío corazón de este sinvergüenza, como fueron ellos evolucionando para mejor, ella siendo más segura y tomando sus decisiones y él por fin permitirse se amado y amar y preocuparse por alguien más que el mismo.
★★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.)Gabriel Aubry as Lord St. Vincent; Amy Adams as Evangeline Jenner.[image error][image error][image error][image error]Top Ten Reasons to Listen to Rosalyn Landor read you Lisa Kleypas' Devil in Winter on Audio:1. A favorite book, as narrated by Ms. Landor, is ALWAYS kicked up a notch; it is so worth a re-visit via your ears.2. She does the American accents, for both Daisy and Lillian Bowman, with authenticity and still manages to distinguish them by infu
★★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.)Gabriel Aubry as Lord St. Vincent; Amy Adams as Evangeline Jenner.[image error][image error][image error][image error]Top Ten Reasons to Listen to Rosalyn Landor read you Lisa Kleypas' Devil in Winter on Audio:1.
Whether you’re listening to this while doing your housecleaning chores, traveling, or escaping the stress of Real Life, Ms. Landor lightens your load with the right amount of humorous – yet cynical - inflection in Sebastian’s aristocrat tone.6.
Yet, when scenes have a different tone, such as the slow evolution of Sebastian falling for Evie, or when he is wounded, vulnerable, and at the mercy of her ultimate medical intervention dilemma, Ms. Landor pulls that off brilliantly, too.
El encanto de esta historia se lo atribuyo, por completo, a sus protagonistas, tan diferentes y, a la vez, tan compatibles entre sí. Adorables Evie y Sebastian (aunque mi corazón se inclina un poquito más por Evie). ❤«—Me importa un comino que alguien nos vea —le dijo él—. Eres mi esposa. —Y se inclinó para acariciarle la mejilla—. Mi premio. Mi placer y mi dolor. Mi deseo infinito. Nunca he conocido a alguien como tú, Evie. —Le rozó el puente de la nariz con los labios—. Te atreves a exigirme c
El encanto de esta historia se lo atribuyo, por completo, a sus protagonistas, tan diferentes y, a la vez, tan compatibles entre sí.
Adorables Evie y Sebastian (aunque mi corazón se inclina un poquito más por Evie).
❤️«—Me importa un comino que alguien nos vea —le dijo él—.
Nunca he conocido a alguien como tú, Evie.
Te atreves a exigirme cosas que ninguna otra mujer osaría».Lillian y Marcus (protagonistas de Sucedió en otoño) aparecen en pocas escenas, pero ¡cómo me sigo riendo con ellos!
Levantas la voz tan a menudo que no veo la diferencia» =D
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI've heard about the "polarizing" event in the previous book that caused so many people to hate Sebastian, Lord St. Vincent. I also agree with what others are saying; that despite all the other characters in the book telling the readers, repeatedly, what a villain he is, he sure doesn't walk the walk (apart from that one incident). If I'm going to suck it up and read a book about a rake and a virgin, then by God, I want a man who is in desp
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI've heard about the "polarizing" event in the previous book that caused so many people to hate Sebastian, Lord St. Vincent.
Towards the end, I found it hilarious, the lengths that St. Vincent would go to deny his attraction to Evie.
In particular, DEVIL reminded me of DREAMING OF YOU, because St. Vincent is like a "well-bred" version of Derek Craven - and both of them are just as stubborn as mules when it comes to dragging their heels about admitting their feelings.
Mi preferido de la serie. No hay duda, dame un protagonista de pasado turbio que reformar y seré feliz. Si encima es irónico y bocachancla como Sebastian, la mitad del trabajo está hecho. Y si a ello le añadimos una protagonista genial para suavizar ese ego de más, pues se va directo a favoritos ❤
MARAVILLOSO, qué DELICIA de lectura. Absolutamente MARAVILLOSO. lo que he disfrutado, madreeeeee míaaaaaaaaaaaa. Sebastian St. Vincent... he muerto de purito love.La aparición de Cam Rohan.... ayyyyyyy Cam
Sooooo good! I loved St. Vincent in the last book and in this one he actually gets more swoon-worthy.  St. Vincent, who was more than a little intimidating, with his golden beauty and wintery ice-blue eyes , and a mouth made for kisses and lies. He looked like a fallen angel, replete with all the dangerous male beauty that Lucifer could devise.  Along with his gorgeous looks is a wicked sense of humor about his own depravity. When he tells Evie that he doesn't want her living in the apartments o
I loved St. Vincent in the last book and in this one he actually gets more swoon-worthy.
He looked like a fallen angel, replete with all the dangerous male beauty that Lucifer could devise.
I'd like to come to your house, please!He's a bad-boy and totally owns it.
Of course the sweetest and most timid wallflower, Evie, ends up with him.
She is like an abused kitten that needs shelter and protection and it brings out the best in him.Oh my gosh, I can't say enough about how much I loved this book.
Absolutamente enamorada de esta saga. Para mi, sin duda este es el mejor libro de los 4. Me han enamorado por completo sus protagonistas. Es relectura y aún así lo he disfrutado mucho.
My first but not lastI know a lot of friends and romance readers love Devil in Winter.
~ I got hold of an 11 hrs audio recording narrated by Rosalyn Landor and started with big expectations.Eleven audiobooks-hours passed quicklyCharming sweet!!
**********************************************The audiobook, narrator...I've been listening to a lot of historical romances narrated by Rosalyn Landor (some by my favorite Courtney Milan) and she always does it very well.
In all other ways is Ms Landor splended and her heroine voice here is adorable sweet.
She actually made me love sweet Evie even more.
This is one of the loveliest historical romances I've ever read.
Indolent, witty and an amoral rake, he constantly surprises himself by his feelings for Evie and his efforts on her behalf.
The scene where he asks her what it will take for him to get back into her bed is awww-worthy.
Evie is a worthy heroine.
Practically she proposes a 3 month period of celibacy for Sebastian to prove himself.
Can Sebastian last the 3 months?
The sex scenes are not many but are very sensuous and full of feeling.
Both hero and heroine grow and their HEA is richly deserved.
I love this romance!
Mira que dudé bastante en que consiguiera cambiar mi opinión sobre Sebastian después de lo que le había hecho a Lillian, pero a base de actuar una y otra vez, pasito a pasito, de una forma tan consecuente desde que Evie se presenta ante él, han hecho que lo perdone.Que lo perdone y que lo adore por cada pequeño detalle.
Sebastian es una especie de "rara avis" entre los protas masculinos que solemos encontrarnos habitualmente.
Al menos desde que una pelirroja con pecas y un poco tartamuda entra en su vida.Entiendo a cada una de las fans del señor Sebastian!!!!!
Loved Evie and Sebastian's romance!
Wanted to read their story since I read Gabriel (their son) and Pandora's in Devil in Spring.
Any fan of Devil in Winter should pick up Devil in Spring to see Evie and Sebastian in the future.
People mistook Evie for a shy wallflower with her stuttering, but it was clear from page one she had some determination and backbone.
Her mother's family was just awful and I'm glad she had the chance to ditch them!Sebastian was a infamous rake, so I was pleasantly surprised at how much he came to care for Evie, even when he said he wouldn't.
