https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22327.The_Miracle_Worker
"No One Could Reach Her"I went to this play and read this book when I was in grade 4.
I remember watching as Helen got so upset when she couldn't express herself and fought those who tried to help.
Hired by Helen's family, Annie Sullivan starts to work with Helen and slowly helps her learn to communicate and express herself.
She was not only going to help Helen communicate but also to live.I remember some of the boys teasing me because I was crying and usually I would have been so upset but I barely heard them.
After we saw the play we read the story in class.
در طول نمایشنامه و زمانی که آن سالیوان برای آموزش هلن به جمع آن ها اضافه می شود، آرتور کسی است که بیش ترین تردید را در مورد درمان شدن هلن دارد.
از آن جا که او مرد خانواده است و قدرت برتر را دارد، کار برای همسر او سخت تر می شود، کیت به راحتی نمی تواند در تصمیم گیری های مربوط به هلن نقش داشته باشد.
زمانی که سالیوان به جمع خانه اضافه می شود، به خاطر صراحتش آرتور نمی تواند چندان با او ارتباط برقرار کند.
the story of Anne Sullivan breaking through the darkness and silence of Helen Keller's world to teach her the very concept of language.
I do love a story of ordinary people doing extraordinary things.FAVORITE MONOLOGUE:(Anne Sullivan) I wanted to teach you--oh, everything the earth is full of, Helen, everything on it that's ours for a wink and it's gone, and what we are on it, the--light we bring to it and leave behind in--words, why, you can see five thousand years back in a light of words, everything we feel, think, know--and share, in words, so not a soul is in darkness, or done with, even in the grave.
This was a fun read but it could be dry and reading it as a script from a play was a little strange for me.
Το είχα δει στο θέατρο πριν μερικά χρόνια, έπεσε τυχαία στα χέρια μου το βιβλιαράκι. Τρομερά συγκινητική, βαθειά ανθρώπινη ιστορία.
She might have been able to learn a little language (Laura Bridgman, the first recipient of training in fingerspelling, was limited in her linguistic capacities, and this may be because she was already eight when her teaching began), but it's unlikely that Helen would have gotten as good at it as she did.
Except when Helen insisted on learning to speak (because she wanted to be able to communicate with people who didn't understand fingerspelling), Annie Sullivan was involved, as translator, tutor, and aide, in all of Helen's vigorous attempts at self-education through college.
if annie sullivan and helen keller can do what they did.....well, stop complaining.
I have always been interested in Helen Keller's life.
"The Miracle Worker" is a play.
it is about Helen when she is six years old.
blind and deaf and acts like a "wild child" Annie Sullivan is hired to teach her.
a tall order for Annie Sullivan who has had many eye surgeries to have sight.
this is a wonderful play and the fact that it is based on real life people and facts from their lives it is a wonderful book.
if anyone finds Helen Keller's and her teacher Annie Sullivan life this is a great play.
This play brings back a lot of memories for me. I acted in a production of it in high school. I played a bit part, spoke a single line, and was on stage for one scene. But it was a big thrill to be involved in it, and gave me a love of acting which persists to this day.
GENERAL:- focuses on Anne Sullivan and her early efforts in educating Helen Keller- encouraged me to add Keller's autobiography to my tbrLIKES:- extremely moving, extremely powerful.- the added part about Keller's half-brother, James, was interesting.
I wasn't expecting that.- Similarly, the part about Sullivan's brother, Jimmie, was extremely moving and artfully set up.DISLIKES:- the story was the compelling aspect, not the writing.- I wish the pacing had been different.
- I also wish there was more about James.
He was so angry throughout the whole play, and provided such a different perspective than the other characters.
This is the story of Helen Keller who was born a healthy little girl, but after falling ill with a childhood ailment she becomes Blind, Deaf and Mute.
The Keller family hires Annie Sullivan to come and help teach Helen, and they are surprised to find Annie herself suffered from Blindness and is only 20 years old.
Being older and having more of an understanding and appreciation for the difficulties that Helen, Annie and the other members of the family actually went through.This is a very fast read!
The Miracle Worker by William Gibson film onlypub 1956autumn 2012play dramatisationThe film, starring Anne Bancroft came out in 1962. Forty years on, those methods would not be allowed.The full film is on YouTube: http://youtu.be/556xz3Mw7rw3*
This book deserves a long and extensive review; and I will do it in the near future.
This was surprisingly very good. I don't usually like nonfiction but this story was incredibly written and expressed the characters very well.
This book is play written about Helen Keller's early years, her struggles, and the success she finally experiences because of the determination of her noble Miss Sullivan. Great book. Then you can see the movie with Patty Duke as Helen.
Well, it's kind of biography and kind of historical but it is SUPER good!! I really liked it!! I recommend this one to everyone!!! A must read!
Aunt Ev character was not needed at all in my opinion because she really doesn’t contribute anything to the plot of this story or message the author is trying to convey.A lot of people probably see James as the antagonist but in my opinion Keller(Helens and his Dad) is the antagonist because he constantly is putting down James, and ultimately makes James the mischievous child he is because his dad doesn’t care for him.
Some of their flaws are shown in the way they show love to their family members and how they treat Helen.All and All a good play, it had some sweet moments and pictures I’m just dying to see brought to life.
I was probably twelve or thirteen when I read Mr. Gibson's account of Helen Keller and her teacher Annie Sullivan, but there are scenes I still remember as if I read them yesterday.
One such scene is the showdown between Sullivan and Keller in the dining room of the Keller's big old Southern home.
The teacher ran out the family who'd coddled Helen all her life, so she could try and make the child eat breakfast like a human being, rather than an animal.
The film's screenplay was adapted by Gibson from his stage play, which was based on the book, so it doesn't matter.
The book is wonderful, and so is the film.
Pros: no long monologues; a lead role with no speaking parts so that someone who has trouble memorizing lines can still be featured; extremely poignant; inspirational perspective on "seeing with words"; balance between male and female characters; would not require editing for content.Cons: complicated staging; annoyingly grandiloquent stage notes (seriously - who uses "proffer" and "deposit" instead of "give" and "place" in stage notes anyway); not sure if dogs allowed in theater.Iman and Alia, there's a chance you're reading this. I have roles in mind for you.
I read this in middle school and I remember liking it, though in retrospect I wonder if I was emotionally intelligent/mature enough to be invested in it like I could be today. oh hey William Gibson!
Had to read this for school. Happy to say I enjoyed it.
Very good.
How tall will Annie's bedroom be, and what potential risks does that pose to my actors?) Since I'm basically self-taught when it comes to directing, I learned the hard way in my early years that I needed to separate out these readings, that to give equal attention to the relationship between Annie & Helen, and the shape and color of the dining room table, is unfair and counterproductive.
Kate Keller, steeled in grief, wants to do whatever it takes to give her daughter a chance, but she feels so helpless in the face of Annie's tough-love mentality.
This, I objectively gathered, was the biggest flaw the in play's ability to be believable.The most interesting fact that I got out of reading The Miracle Worker was Helen's greatest handicap, and challenge being not her lack of hearing, vision, or communication, but her parents' love.
Her parents spoiled her as a child, and tried to give her her heart's desires as what they thought was compensation for her phsycal handicaps.I give this play two stars because although I felt well-educated about Annie's relation to Helen, the truths of the book were stretched and twisted to form a very unrealistic story.
I don't really read a ton of plays because I find them hard to follow, but this one was good.
It would be cool if they could turn this play into an actual book format (of course keeping the original play).The play was about Helen Keller when she was 12 years old, blind and deaf gets help from Annie Sullivan.
Keller was against anyone who was trying to help her and the play was about Annie Sullivan helping Keller.
As well as being entertaining, the play was informative about Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan.
The family felt like they could not discipline her because they did not think it would work and they thought it would just be cruel.Annie Sullivan comes into Helen's life to teach her to communicate.
Will Ann be able to help Helen learn to communicate or will she just give up?This play is very interesting, but also heart breaking too.If your child acted like a wild animal because she was born blind, deaf, and mute it would have an impact on your life and be a struggle."An emotional earthquake...a magnificent drama.
A play with the power to wrench the heart."- New York Mirror
So I'm performing this play, and one day I just sat down and read this book cover to cover.
So many interesting characters, every word of dialouge spoken in this play has a good reason behind it.
One of the best plays ever written, although I haven't read many plays, so don't trust my judgement on the best plays ever.
But I'm pretty sure that's what any playwrite would say it was one of the best American plays anyway.
It's interesting reading and performing this play, it gives me high expectations for plays in the future in comparison to this.
I have seen the movie version of this play, and the play wasn't that different. I always find it a little difficult to read plays, but I liked this one. My only problem is that it ends at Helen and Anne at the pump and how Helen learns that words have meaning. I would've liked it to be extended a little bit longer. I'd recommend the movie if you don't like reading plays.
One of the best plays I've ever read. Very emotional and well played out. The scenes were very detailed so it was easy to follow. The story of Hellen Keller and Anne Sullivan is truly amazing and inspirational. Reading this play makes me want to see it performed live more than anything.
I think it would be hard in this day and age to find three adults who could agree to actual discipline like Annie, Kate and the Captain basically had to in this story (and presumably in real life) to ultimately free Helen from her 'cage'.
