https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40669990-two-by-two
Just know, as a longtime fan of Nicholas Sparks, this wasn’t an easy review to write and trying to sugarcoat my feelings seems pointless.
So, I'm just going to put it out there—I didn't like this book.Similar to See Me, this has an entirely different feel than his greats.
I think Nicholas Sparks deserves some credit for branching out and trying something new—telling the story of a couple falling apart, rather than falling in love—but it didn’t work for me.
I’m confused about how Russ and Vivian even ended up together.
I’m not even sure what story Mr. Sparks was trying to tell.
It's a tiny library that don't seem to get many copies of online books as well as physical copies.
That being said, I'm getting a bunch of things coming through because the world knows I'm trying to get my piles of books read once and for all!!
I have generally loved Nicholas Sparks books for years.
The beginning half of this book wore me out though!
BUT, the second half was great for me.
The book just picked up and was enjoyable, yet very sad.
I cry from sadness and happiness.
Happy Reading!
4.5 "tender, domestic, wholesome" stars !2017 Honorable Mention Read This is my first Nicholas Sparks and it will not be my last.
Although formulaic and predicable the book is filled with such genuine sentiment, good values and old-fashioned deliciousness.The characters are not subtle, enigmatic or complex.
Middle class folk needing a paycheque, a hug, a home.
The situations are real and the dilemmas are challenging.Some of the vignettes at the beginning of each chapter are so heartachingly beautiful that I could not stop the tears falling hotly and fiercely.Nicholas Sparks knows his audience: school secretaries, nurses, homemakers, and even a few eccentric dudes like Jaidee.Great literature this is not, but it certainly is entertaining, moving and makes you appreciate the lovely people in your own life.Thanks Mr. Sparks and now to try my first Jodi Picoult :)
4.5 Stars!!! I don't know if I would label this a romance book because it was so much more than that. Fantastic book!!!
.....Romance Lovers - BUY - Something ElseI hesitated reading this book due to the many one star reviews, but I am a loyal fan and have read everything Nicholas Sparks has ever published and didn't want to stop now.
Instead this was about a married couple, Russ and Vivian, who are on a collision course to divorce, and have a beautiful little girl, named London, who of course, gets caught in the middle.
So, I compromised and rated it 2.5 stars.Russ - a hard working kinda guy, just wanting to provide for his family and make them happy.
I won this book in the Goodreads giveaways. Sadly, I had to DNF it. I've enjoyed all the other Sparks books I've read so far, but this one isn't for me. Honestly it's dull. I can't get into it and I hate the characters. Russell is an annoying people pleaser and his wife Vivian is a...well...rhymes with witch. The plot drags and I just had to give up on it. I'm sad because I really wanted to like this one, but it's just not for me.
“Two by two,” “they came in pairs, from all over the world.” It took me a few hours to digest the story after I finished reading it. It was a novel full of heartbreak, at times bittersweet but also with a great amount of love and healing power.  “It’s about someone who walks into your life, says I’m here for you, and then proves it.” The tale begins with a recently married young couple, Russell and Vivian Green, who are expecting a baby. When London is born Russell couldn't be happier to have
The tale begins with a recently married young couple, Russell and Vivian Green, who are expecting a baby.
Russell does worry about how to make ends meet with one less salary but he wants to make his wife happy.
When Russell decides to start his own company, since he feels like his current job is not going to be there much longer, it adds stress to their marriage.
Suddenly, it's up to Russell to take care of London full time while Vivian's job consumes her time.
Russel and Vivian could be a perfect example of a couple you know.
Desde el inicio del libro que no terminó de convencerme: eso no quiere decir que sea una mala historia, es buena y triste; tal vez como una de esas películas que ponen los sábados por la televisión. Es decir, está muy bien escrita y estructurada, sus personajes están muy bien perfilado y hasta llegas a odiar a uno de ellos, casi toda la novela. Pero... Supongo que es más emocional que romántica (Lidia, tenías razón:))
4.5 "Putting Life & Love in Perspective" Stars for the story!Please note this book will make you cry!
And though there is a romance embedded in this story, this book should really be classified as fiction (like women's fiction but without any humor).
In fact, this story made me so sad and depressed that I wanted to stop about a quarter of the way through.
All that said, it's a book worth listening to to its end, as the power of its message really helps put everything in life in perspective.
The tables are turned and while Vivian is making a success of her new-found career, Russ becomes the main caregiver for their daughter London, while also managing affairs in the household.
Though I was not completely happy with his final decision, it seemed in line with the traits shown by his character throughout the novel.As much as this is the story of Russ, Two by Two is about the beautiful relationship that flourishes between a father and a daughter.
Russ and London’s relationship is perhaps the most important feature of this novel, rather than the love story.Fans of Sparks work will be pleased to see that Two by Two offers a love story.
I'm giving this 2 stars strictly because he's Nicholas Sparks and 20 years ago I read the Notebook and Message in a bottle and he captured everything I wanted in a romance...and he is a male writer, I was sold!
Some might say it's great that he is writing different plots and blah blah - but I want the old Sparks back - the heartbreakingly sweet love!!!This book tells the story of Russ and Vivian, 2 characters who never had a spark, never should have married, and you basically live in their depressing marriage for way too much of this book.
He might've been a bit like that for most of his life, but once he starts telling us his story we see so many amazing things about him.
There are only some tiny little moments when we don't hate her - she loves her daughter very much and she's scared to lose her, so we understand her a bit here and there.
Tiny little, moving, sad, funny, adorable things like that.And the rest of the story is more or less in real time.
I would so watch it!I think I will stop writing now.Just know that I loved this book.
"Não sou um homem sábio.Também não quero que pensem que sou burro, mas sabedoria é muito mais que inteligência porque engloba compreensão, empatia, experiência, paz interior e intuição, e agora que penso nisso é óbvio que me faltam muitas dessas características."*“I’m not a wise man.I’m not unintelligent, mind you.
Pode evitar que cometamos o mesmo erro duas vezes."*“Guilt, in other words, isn’t always wasted.
Amor, risos e amizade; momentos felizes passados com os entes queridos." *“This, I remember thinking, is what life is really about.
Love and laughter and friendship; happy times spent with those you care about.”-Russel Green
Coming from a die hard NS fan (me!) - I have to say this one truly disappointed me. What has happened to Nick?
4.5 stars.While it is many years since I read a book by Nicholas Sparks, I am very happy to have picked up Two by Two, it kept me reading into the night until I had finished it.It is narrated by Russell - husband to Vivian and father of London.
As well there is Emily, a woman who Russ loved at one time, now divorced with a son that London has become friends with.
One step at a time when things just keep getting worse he moves through it.There is sadness and loss, big loss (this is a Nicholas Sparks novel after all) but it is balanced by the love of family and friends and renewed love.
I think this book is probably a result of NS signing a 3 book contract or something and even though im sure he knew it was not that good (compared to his previous books, not including SEE ME because that was awful too) he was more than likely under pressure to produce something and quickly.
I read the E-book and the editing was sooooooooo freaking awful that it actually pissed me the F#&*!
off that someone didn't take the time to edit the book properly, there were sooooooo many mistakes, including grammar, punctuation, missing words, and within the story, like one minute there is a dog who is female & in the next scene the dog has magically transformed into a male.
In “Two by Two”, we are introduced to Russell Green, an advertising executive who has a happy and seemingly perfect life with his gorgeous wife and young daughter.
Vivian (Russell’s wife) is a complete she-devil who I absolutely felt nothing but hatred for throughout the novel (even at the end when she shows some humanity), but I think this was Sparks’ plan and any other female reader who enjoys this novel will surely feel the same.
Although the ending in this novel is predictable, it does hold some surprises, and provides a reader with comfort and satisfaction.
All of Sparks' characters usually have personality to them to give fervor for further reading; yet, Russel gave me a slump in the book by page 96.
All my life watching and reading Nicholas Sparks, I thought he was great at stimulating a relationship's bloom or ending it gracefully, as in the happenings of The Notebook for example.
As the 20th year celebratory novel for Nicholas Sparks' storytelling, this is definitely the most miserable way to get readers to celebrate.
Didn't even finish this book. Very disappointing.
If you go into this book expecting the usual type of Nicholas Sparks’ love story, then you may be disappointed.
Vivian either doesn’t seem to understand or care that circumstances have changed and keeps spending like there is no tomorrow.
The relationship between Russ and London is well portrayed, as all around him the life he thought he had begins to go from one disaster to another.
I particularly liked the way parents and family relationships are portrayed, not just with Russ and London but also with Russ and Marge and their parents, especially their father.
This is a story about change, about love and loss, family, parenting and relationships.
3.5 stars, rounded up because the characters really stayed with me, even days after I finished this.32 year old Russ Green seems to have the picture perfect life...a beautiful wife, Vivian, adorable 6 year old daughter, London, a successful career as an advertising executive and a stunning home in Charlotte, close to his mother and father as well as his older sister, Marge and her partner Liz. Anyone looking in would think that he's living the dream.
She was witty, snarky and brave throughout many points in the story (her story's ending has me shaking my fist at you Sparks!) As far as Emily goes...an Ex of Russ and the ultimate 'new ' love interest once Vivian's out of the picture.
While they definitely aren't my favorite reads of all time, I have come to appreciate his work for what it is-- a simple, basic and lovely story.
While I ended up liking Russ and London in the end, the entire first half was literally their same routine over and over again, and they were so boring, that I had no interest in picking up the book to keep reading.
Russ was so bland, without much of a personality and Vivian was so horrible, that I had a very difficult time believing that they were ever in love and the circumstances surrounding the beginnings of their relationship.
Mais do que um romance lamechas a que Sparks já nos habituou, este seu novo livro é realmente tocante porque aborda vários temas como amor, traição, dedicação a um filho, doença...
chorei em algumas partes (felizmente estava sozinha), irritei-me outras tantas (a Vivian consegue ser exasperante) e enterneci-me muito mais com o amor que Russ dedica à filha.
Um amor verdadeiro a contrastar com o amor de Vivian, que vê na filha o seu próprio espelho e vontade que a pequenita seja igual a si ou até mesmo superior.
Wow I honestly don't know how to feel about this one I felt like I reading and reading but actually 
Another great book by Mr. Sparks!I feel like it's been a while since I read an emotional book because this one took so many shots on me.
Geeze, Russ and London's relationship was definitely goals!
Kind of reminds me and my relationship with my dad.
I didn't like Vivian at all and I LOVED Marge.
Besides all of that lovely information, you will cry or shed a tear at one point in this book.
Nicholas Sparks is some sort of tear wizard basically asking for all of our gypsy tears to make his next book.
Didn't like being sad and shit but oh well..
I hate that heifer with a passion I cannot express with words alone.
Good thing Vivian is a fictional character because I would so go hunt her down and dog slap her!
HATE.
This book is so good!
It's fiction but it's not.
It's NOT a romance book though.
If you are looking for a love story, this book is not for you.
But if you're looking for a great book about a father who loves deeply and a family with a heart of gold, then please give this book a go.
It's my FAVORITE Nicholas Sparks book so far.
*** This turned out to be one of the best books I’ve read. I can relate to it in many different ways and I think everyone could enjoy this book because it has so many life lessons. This book taught me a lot and had me tearing up but also laughing a lot. My first assumption of the book was wrong and it turned out to be such a positive and amazing book!
Glad I got this at the library and did not waste the money on purchasing it. Probably one of the more disappointing books by Sparks. Long and drawn out and the male character was sooo wimpy, I thought. I basically made myself finish it.
Sparks je sa ovim romanom mogao uraditi i bolji posao, na gotovo 600 stranica preopširno je ispričao u suštini jednu lijepu, emotivnu priču koja veoma podsjeća na knjigu i film Kramer protiv Kramera.
Moram priznati da sam se čitajući ovaj roman većinom dosađivala i čekala konačno taj njegov poznati efekat na emocije, a on nikako da dođe.
Razmišljala sam ako ovom romanu dam na kraju i dvije zvjezdice biće dobro.
A onda pred sami kraj evo i preokreta, priča dobija na dinamici, emotivni efekat, čitaj suze su neizbježne jer to je ipak Sparks, a ukupna ocjena se ipak podiže na jedva, ali ipak četiri zvjezdice.
4 StarsI really love Nickolas Sparks and his writing.
When I read this book it was different for him.
The writing was really good.
It was really not what I was excepting from him but it was still really good.
I would say that if you don't like to read any Nickolas Sparks books then this would not be a book for you.
If you like to read Nickolas Sparks books then you will find out that it is different then the other books he has written.
I would recommend this book to anyone that likes Nickolas Sparks writing.
