https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33734.Getting_Rid_of_Bradley
Funny,entertaining and fast paced Getting rid of Bradley  is an ideal weekend read,that reminds you that its ok,to not always be logical in life.Even though the plot dragged a bit in the beginning,I' 0m glad it found its way and picked up halfway before finally ending with a 'BANG'.Lucy and Zack,damn those two are just too adorable together. ♥ But to be honest I adored Zack best ! I loved the way he just embraced the fact he was in love instead of making it angsty for both of them. Recommendatio
Funny,entertaining and fast paced Getting rid of Bradley  is an ideal weekend read,that reminds you that its ok,to not always be logical in life.Even though the plot dragged a bit in the beginning,I' 0m glad it found its way and picked up halfway before finally ending with a 'BANG'.Lucy and Zack,damn those two are just too adorable together.
♥ But to be honest I adored Zack best !
I loved the way he just embraced the fact he was in love instead of making it angsty for both of them.
Would I recommend it ?
Would I recommend it ?
I had a hard time getting into this one. It seemed to drag and the green moss colored hair on Lucy?? Loved her dogs!! It was funny and I really loved Zack. Not a favorite of mine by JC.
When I woke up this morning, I was in the mood for something fun...and funny.
Her ex couldn't even be bothered to show up for the divorce, she beats up a mugger only to find out he's a cop, her efforts to change her life via hair dye have resulted in a strange, moss-green color, and apparently someone's trying to kill her!
And his instincts are telling him that the lady with the funky hair who he LET hit him is somehow involved in his case.
His instincts are also telling him that there's NO WAY IN HELL he's going to let anyone else protect her.
Did he just say that?Zany, funny, laugh-out-loud romance.
I have most Crusie books firmly on my keeper shelf, but it has been far too long since I've read them.This is an oldie re-released and I loved it. Stayed up till 1am because I couldn't put it down.Absolutely adore her unique voice, which makes any plot believable and fun.Recommend!
⭐⭐⭐ 3.5 stars ⭐⭐⭐On my way to conquer all Jennifer Crusie's books!I've been recommended the great Bet Me the other day and I am slowly making my way up through Ms Crusie's books. I really liked this one, I enjoyed the banter, the secondary characters, the comic situations...The heroine, Lucy is a complete freak, a nut, a nerd, she acted pretty stupid at some times but maybe I overlooked it because of her relationship with her stubborn and sexy as hell cop, Zach. I loved the whole hair obsession/
I really liked this one, I enjoyed the banter, the secondary characters, the comic situations...The heroine, Lucy is a complete freak, a nut, a nerd, she acted pretty stupid at some times but maybe I overlooked it because of her relationship with her stubborn and sexy as hell cop, Zach.
I loved the whole hair obsession/drama!
And if you are a dog lover, you'll love Lucy!
Best Mom, ever!Wrap it all up with mystery, make the cop live with heroine with the excuse of protecting her and you'll have an entertaining read!
reasons...An early Crusie (an author note at the beginning says it's her second), her skill is already in good form.
She's just a fun character with her refusal to give in to the demands of others that skirted the edge of TSTL without actually invoking it even a little bit.
I think this is early evidence of what I find so engaging with Crusie's work—the characters are just so well done that you never suspect that they are being manipulated by the author for the sake of the story (because they aren't).A note about Steamy: Really light, but enough to tag.
Not bad, but not as good as the author's other books.Something was repetitive and a little boring about the conversations during the first third of the book.
This was one of the author's first books and it wasn't as good as her later books.
I was annoyed that Lucy kept saying she didn't believe she was being shot at and that she was in danger, even though a bullet hit her cheek, and a bomb went off in her car.
She went out for a jog and to a beauty parlor when she should have stayed home where she had police protection.
I have read most of Jennifer Cruisie's books but this is definitely my favourites. I adore the relationship between Lucy and Zack - they made such a sweet and funny couple.This is the sort of book that you can curl up with and easily finish in an afternoon. Pick a drizzly day, make a cup of coffee (or tea - do feel free to improvise), snuggle up on the sofa and lose yourself in the lovely world of Getting Rid Of Bradley.
I am pretty sure that I read this before, but I wanted a low key read and this qualified.
:-)I don't know how many times I've read this book - and I can't remember when I bought it - but I always laugh and cry in the same places and at the same lines.
. .I love this book because Zack is hot and Lucy is sweet.
I love the suspense in it: Zack and his partner, Anthony, are after an embezzler and there's something in Lucy's house that this criminal wants.
:-)At the end: (view spoiler)["So you're going to marry a cop," Tina said later, when Zack was gone with Anthony, and they were alone.
In fact, even with all its shortcomings, I find it better plotted than 90% of the romance books I've read.It took me nearly a year of searching, but I finally found the perfect blend of romance and comedy in Jennifer Crusie.
And Lucy isn't D, but she's a dog lover so she's similar to D in that respect.* Reread this book and learn from the pure awesomeness of Crusie's dialogue.* The love scenes are tender and passionate without being explicit (hmmm, could learn from that!).
She seemed to have no logic, Crusie, tried to put the reader inside of Lucy's mind to better understand her, but who would want to be in the mind of such a twit.
Yep, Lucy was a nuisance.You can see in this book the beginnings of what Crusie does so well, which is to bring humor to her characters while making them relatable and realistic.
Lucy wasn't so much funny as annoying as hell and she certainly wasn't relatable or realistic.
The good news, Crusie does a much better job in other books in refining her characters so they seem much more three dimensional.
She finds out that the hero thinks her life is in danger but she tells him her ex is boring and not violent and not an embezzler as he suspects.Before he knows it, he is living in her house under the guise of protecting her, falling for her, learning cooking and playing with her dogs, hell he even proposes to her after only a few days and when she refuses plans on how to make her say yes.
There was literally nothing about this that I liked.
I finished only because it got picked for me and I forced myself to, but really, it was a struggle.
It has to be one of those "it's not you, it's me" books though, since everyone else on my GR list has given this at least 4 stars.And I'm just sitting here, stupidly blinking and looking around wondering what I missed.
Or if I even read the same book.I feel like I lucked out with Bet Me being the first Jennifer Crusie that I ever read all those years ago, because the ones I've read since have not been my cup of tea at all.
Another fun book by Jennifer Crusie! In this book we have Lucy - a gal who is trying to turn her life around but somehow everything just explodes on her. She goes to court to divorce her hubby (That would be Bradley) and he doesn't even bother to show. She decides she needs to color her hair to make herself feel better and it turns out green. Oh - and someone is trying to kill her. Yeah. Not a great week for out poor Lucy. Lucky for her Zack the yummy cop is there to protect her!
Really enjoyed this. It's light. It's fluff. And it is funny as could be. The book doesn't take itself too seriously and is good for a bunch of laughs to boot. Not as steamy as I normally like but it makes up for it in many other ways.
It took me a while to get into it, but in the end I liked it quite a bit. A fun, fluffy, light read.3.5 stars.
I've been binge-reading Jennifer Crusie's Books lately and this one was as good as the ones I read before. It was fast-paced, funny and entertaining. Zach and Lucy were cute and sweet together. Witnessing Lucy become independent and confident was pretty enjoyable. And I want her dogs. Also, I would've loved to know more about Lucy's sister too. My only complaint would be that it wasn't long enough and I want more of them.
Romance is not my genre...never has been. I had to read a romance novel to fulfill a reading challenge at my library. So, I will not critique this book since it is truly the first romance book I have ever read. I will say that Jennifer Crusie can be quite funny at times. Whew, so glad I can check the romance category off my list.
3.5 stars. Fun summer read.
It's a great premise, funny and sarcastic writing, but both the hero and the heroine annoyed me to bits!
It doesn't help that the narration was not that great either, but the book was the real problem - between the stupid heroine (whose name I can't even remember, and I read it today!) and the cry-baby old man hero, way too much emphasis on the dogs (4?
just saying), and constant bickering like brother and sister between the hero/heroine, this book was just too much wrong in too short of a book.
it might be the only way I read another Crusie book for quite a while.
Love how Lucy keeps saying "sorry I beat you up" and Zach keeps getting more and more exasperated saying "you did not beat me up, besides I wasn't defending myself because I didn't want to hurt you".
I thought I was going to have to raise your damn dogs.." Such a great line for this book and the characters.
Zach and Lucy were some what immature characters to me, usually that doesn't seem to even enter into my frame of reference when I am reading a book but I noticed it this time for some reason.
Getting Rid Of Bradley is a standalone novel from author Jennifer Crusie.
I've read some great chick-lit books that have successfully lifted my mood and made me laugh out loud in public.
That's why chick-lit (with plenty of romance and humor) is a favorite genre of mine.
It's not remotely realistic so the reader still gets that "escape into a book" experience but the humor just does wonders for the soul.
Getting Rid Of Bradley won't likely ever make my list of top ten chick-lits but it did the job well enough.
I liked the mystery and suspense element added to this story.
The whole thing felt rushed and phoned in, but more to the point, this is one of those romances where all two people have to do is meet.
I realize this is, like 80% of the romance genre, but I was just not in the mood for a story about how all you need to do to achieve lifelong romantic happiness is show up.
Everyone who knows the story of how my girlfriend and I got together is now pointing and laughing, and okay, fair.
But I still have a point!
Contemporary Romance Fun read!A very funny romance with a likeable heroine, an adorable hero and three loveable dogs. In fact, if you like dogs, you will love this book.The only thing I don't like about it is the cover, it's so horrible I switched editions for my review. Whoever did the cover art on the version I read obviously never read the book, because that doesn't represent Lucy or the upbeat feel of the novel.The book contains one bad word and a couple of intimate scenes.
This is one of Crusie's earlier novels, and it shows in both her plotting, and in early versions of characters and ideas that she'd go on to rework in her later novels. It's probably one of her best early novels, though, and a good, frothy read for a slow night at work. The heroine and hero have a great meet-cute, Crusie is very good at using repetition for comedic effect, and I think she does a better job of balancing the cute romance and the mystery side of things than in Crazy for You.
For the book form of a sitcom you just can't go wrong with Jennifer Crusie. This book is a lot of fun, full of witty dialogue, madcap action and a bit of romance and sex. Ms. Crusie writes wildly entertaining stories that are always good for making me smile.Full review: http://jenn.booklikes.com/post/105113...
Probably 4.5ish, but JUST SO MUCH FUN. It had me laughing out in places (THE DOG JOKE!!!).The relationship was super-fast, but in a believable way. (Well. In a believable way within the world.)I found the beginning a little rough, but, overall, just really enjoyable.
This was just a ton of fun. All the characters were amazing, even the supporting ones. It was funny, it kept me on the edge of my seat, the sex was hot and meaningful, the romance was awesome, really, such a good read.
Getting Rid of Bradley is one of Crusie's typical, screwball comedies with romance, suspense, green hair and a thug in a leather jacket. Not my favorite Crusie, but it is a fairly short book and definitely worth looking at.
