https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263179.How_to_Marry_a_Millionaire_Vampire
What can I say... The ideas in the book are interesting, it's what kept me reading. BUT the quality was horrible. felt like I was reading the draft of a book. Some things could have been fleshed out a lot more. Many things were repetitive! God's blood it was repetitive!! lol. I give the ideas 3/5, quality 2/5. Would I read it again? NO... Continue the series? NO!Recommend it? Maybe not. It annoyed me for the most part, especially the dumb rushed ending.
You know those Master Vampires who are all suave, debonair, alpha-sexy, and charming as hell?
But, Roman spends all of his time in the lab doing non-vampire sex stuff.
So, come back, Roman, all is forgiven.His kilted army finds out that there is a special CIA task force dedicated to wiping out all vampires.
"And if they doona believe we're peaceful, then we'll have to kill the bastards." Roman frowned, somehow their Highlander logic escaped him.
It was exactly what you would expect from a book that began with a vampire losing one of his fangs in a sex toy.
DNF 32%. I'm giving up. You know, there is nothing wrong with this and it's actually kind of funny and cute. It's just that I really don't do chick lit - not even paranormal chick lit, and that is definitely what this is.And I'll add that it took  30%  of the whole book to get his dang fang implanted again. That is just ridiculously long for such a minor plot point. 30%. Since he had to get it put back in before sunrise or his body would heal without the fang, that meant that only a handful of h
DNF 32%.
I'm giving up.
You know, there is nothing wrong with this and it's actually kind of funny and cute.
of the whole book to get his dang fang implanted again.
Since he had to get it put back in before sunrise or his body would heal without the fang, that meant that only a handful of hours had passed in 30% of the book.
And it's not you, book.
It's me.Hey, at least that's another one from 2014 off my TBR shelf, one way of the other!
And it's been on my TBR since 2014.
^^HOW TO DO NUMEROUS EYE ROLLS!^^I do believe this book was feckin with me, it was outrageous, and a little bit on the cheesy side.
I don’t know who thought this was a good idea but so the book went.When a tall dark and handsome man walks into the 24hr dentist clinic (eye roll) Shanna has to get him out immediately.
Seems the Russians who want her dead have found her and the tall, dark, and good-looking man is about to lose his life along with hers.Roman needs a dentist when his fang breaks off in sex doll that also administers blood (eye roll #2).
4.5 Stars I really enjoyed this book. I seen all the mixed reviews and I was worried so I put off reading this series for awhile, but this book was really good! This book was so funny. I enjoyed Roman and Shanna as a couple they were very cute, and I like the layout of this vampire world. I liked a lot of the other characters that you meet in this story and hope they get stories of their own. Looking forward to reading the next one and I would highly recommend this book to any vamp book lovers!
Fluffy vamp book. I enjoyed how not cool Roman was. Yeah, he was tall, dark, and handsome, but he was so nerdy and morose that made him have zero charm and zero alpha-ness. He's not wimpy, just too busy being depressed to put forth alpha effort. Shanna wasn't stupid or TSTL, appreciated that a lot. Would've liked to have seen her get mad more about some things and be less weepy. Overall, liked that she was boringly normal, a dentist. Now gimme those kilted vamps. Woohoo.
Want to play a fun drinking game? Take a shot every time any character in this book cries, tears up, or their eyes start to burn. You'll be tanked for 12 hours straight.
When a vampire has to go to a dentist to fix a fang, I'm sorry but it is just funny. I think the way Shanna is introduced to Roman's world is a page turning ride. Their attraction to one another is off the charts, and vampire sex is cool! Her dad is the monster he accuses the vamps of being. I love how good they are for each other, Roman needs love and Shanna hasn't had good males around her. This is a great beginning for the series. Great read!!
I just...I just...I just can't. I tried.
A big thanks to my GR friends who recommended this story! You were all right; it's funny, quirky, sexy, and I'm looking forward to reading more!
One evening, one of his scientists, Lazlo brings in a fake female body, that is nude and looks real, but thinks will help vampires with the need to sink their fangs into mortals necks, this way there is no risk to humans.
However right when she does, danger and the threats come back to haunt her once more, until she meets the enigmatic handsome stranger that saves her life and protects her.
I definitely loved this one, (especially the whole security guards that are handsome, virile Scots and wear kilts who can resist such a read right?) This book had me cracking up, and tearing up a few times.
To compare, I like this a lot more than the annoying "Sookie Stackhouse" novel though it sort of reminds me of it.
There are two extremely annoying things about this book: 1.
I know it might seem necessary, but the heroine's utter bewilderment in discovering -and denying- the vampire world seems incredibly painful and drawn out.
I feel this character flaw directly conflicts with her other supposed "worldly and street-smart" survival abilities, for example blocking vampire mind control and general survival and defense against the Russian mafia.
Can we for once have a heroine that is smart, tough and capable?To reiterate, I LIKE this book.
Funny, I snickered through out the book. Light and funny, not anything too deep. Great romance and characters some in Kilts.
Roman y Shanna son adorables pero lo que más me gustaron si es posible fueron los highlanders (como no!!!!
Jajajaja) El padre de Shanna dios que pesadito de verdad espero que no vuelva a por ellos otra vez.
No 🙄🙄🙄🙄 Me he reído mucho con Shanna, sobre todo la primera vez cuando pensó que estaba dormido y le hizo pedorretas en la barriga 😂😂😂😂😂 JAJAJAJAJAJAJAJ casi muero de risa allí mismo.
Me han dado momentos estupendos, me han hecho sufrir y tener el corazón en un puño!
Es un libro estupendo y ligero la verdad.
WARNING: REVIEW MAY CONTAIN BAD VAMPIRE PUNS AND SEXUAL REFERENCES. [4.7/5 stars] WARNING: REVIEW MAY CONTAIN BAD VAMPIRE PUNS AND SEXUAL REFERENCES. REVIEW IS NOT SUITABLE FOR YOUNG READERSWow, did things get hot in this book!If you're looking for a quirky, laugh-out-loud vampire read, then sink your fangs (I mean fang) into this book!! I would definitely recommend this book to paranormal and vampire lovers. Although the book is NOT suitable for young readers. From the very first chapter, I cou
REVIEW IS NOT SUITABLE FOR YOUNG READERSWow, did things get hot in this book!If you're looking for a quirky, laugh-out-loud vampire read, then sink your fangs (I mean fang) into this book!!
I would definitely recommend this book to paranormal and vampire lovers.
I never thought you could pair the gloominess of vampirism with cheesy humor but Sparks achieved a paranormal action/adventure with a modern twist.Roman Draganesti is an arrogant, rich and charming vampire.
The predicament Roman got himself into?His fang got stuck in a sex toy.This is one of the books where you have to read it to believe it.
This book had me rolling my eyes so much, I just kept thinking, 'it can't get any worse.' Wrong!First off, Roman is a 500+ year old vampire, (and a physical virgin, if not a mental virgin - please don't ask, it's too weird for words) who is a former monk, and feels he's a 'demon from hell.' (Note, this phrase can be substituted for the drinking game, however I would not add it, otherwise, you might as well drink the Mississippi!) He's created artificial blood so vamps can stop killing the mortals and save their lives.
I was really liking this book straight from page one.I found myself laughing out loud at a few things, but as the story carried on laughter turned into frustration and annoyance. Shanna basically cried through the entire book. It was nerve wrecking, every little thing brought tears to her eyes. I did like Roman he was definitely an interesting character as well as a few others. The Highlanders really peeked my interest. I hope they get books of their own. This series will probably be one I read as an in between.
DNF at 10%Yeah, don't think this is for me. The opening scene with the sex doll wasn't the kind of scene I look for in my romance. Plus, after reading more reviews while trying to decide whether or not to continue, I don't think this book is really my type.
So Roman, a super old woe is me I'm damned because I'm a vampire, God has abandoned me, and no one will ever love me because I'm a demon from hell vampire decides to test a new (designed by someone who works for him) sex doll that not only functions in its original capacity, has been altered to also provide a simulated experience of feeding on humans.
Shanna was genuinely repulsed by the fact that Roman was a vampire and had to work really hard to convince herself that he was an okay guy.
***I was not planning on writing a review on this one, since there were quite a few things I found lacking, but I do have to say something that truly bothers me...
I just don't get it, since as a culture, Russia has always valued education, literature, art and intellectual curiosity very highly!
The literacy levels there are higher than the US and UK, and families still encourage children to pursue higher education...
The worst part of the education there is propaganda, but it is neither better nor worse than the propaganda in the West, so I say it is pretty even...
I really hoped this would be interesting, but it ended up being completely flat.The poor centuries old vampire who was a monk and still believes in god, ya da ya da...
The whole thing about vampires being "creatures from hell" too.
One thing is them being Buffy-like, but now this?
The only cool thing in this book was how the main character is a vampire scientist!
Now that I enjoyed, but the rest, the characters didn't inspire anything in me but rage and eye rolling...
Couldn't even finish this book even though there was so little left, I just didn't have it in me to care.
The rating for this book is less about how good the book was and more my preferences for PNR books.
I like the edgy and dark aspect of PNR.
I also enjoy reading about vampire romance because of the blood connection and a relationship that requires the partners to accept each other and provide for each other above all else.
I also didn't like that Roman and Shanna will never have that raw deeper connection of love and romance by sharing the blood connection.
I did enjoy the whole telepathic connection and the matrix style phone tracing but overall this was definitely not my preferred style of PNR.
OMG! This book was great, totally hilarious and sweet. I was laughing really hard the whole time while reading it. There were so many funny situations... I must say that Kerrelyn Spark has an amazing imagination and a great writing style. I loved this book. It has interesting characters and situations, good plot lines. I couldn't put it down.Roman was the sweetest hero, and I just needed to see his HEA, he totally deserved to have a happy ending. He was so tormented. I can't wait to read the next.3.5 stars read.
All these elements came together to create a very enjoyable start to this new-to-me series, and a pretty impressive debut novel from this author.Roman was a really yummy hero.
She actually treats Roman with a compassion that is quite foreign to him.How to Marry a Millionaire Vampire has lots of great supporting characters, many of whom get their own books in the series.
All these characters came together seamlessly to make a very colorful cast.Overall, How to Marry a Millionaire Vampire was a very fun read and a great start to the Love at Stake series.
How to Marry a Millionaire Vampire has definitely breathed some new life into my paranormal romance reading.
A nice, light, vampire romance comedy.This was my first experience reading Kerrilyn Sparks’ books and it will not be my last.
Our hero Roman Draganesti is a 500-ish year old vampire who has dedicated his life to the development of synthetic blood for use by both humans and vampires.
While testing a novel blood delivery system (you really need to read that part) Roman loses a fang.
Shanna is rescued by Roman and some really funny situations ensue.There were some clever ideas in this book.
Looking forward to reading the next book – Vamps and the City.
too silly for my taste (view spoiler)[plus H has a harem for mind sex? okay (hide spoiler)]https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Anyways, that particular “God’s Blood” has been one of the most ANNOYING phrases I have ever read in a book.However, (and yes, I will not make this an attack to Kerrelyn Sparks) I have to say that as the first attempt of this author to bring vampire lovers, she did pretty good.
What I didn’t like, is that in no place of this whole book it’s explained how, when or where about the vampire background.
Yes, there was action, but no, there was no step by step HOW TO MARRY A MILLIONAIRE VAMPIRE nowhere here.
Roman Draganesti, vampir miliuner yg kaya raya, mengalami nasib sial gara-gara gigi taringnya copot saat mencoba boneka sex toys wanita yg diciptakan oleh Laszlo, anak buahnya.
Terpaksa mereka mencari-cari dokter gigi di yellow pages dan ketemulah nama Shanna, sang dokter gigi yang sedang hidup dalam penyamaran karena dikejar-kejar oleh pembunuh ibunya.Shanna kaget sekali waktu didatangi oleh Roman dkk ini dan tidak mau memasang gigi taring Roman karena mengira itu adalah gigi anjing serigala.
Tapi pd akhirnya Shanna kembali lagi dan Roman menjelaskan bhw dia tdk pernah berhubungan fisik dgn mereka dan hanya melakukan sex vampire dgn mrk yg dilakukan scr mental dan akhirnya malah diujicoba ke Shanna dan Shanna ternyata menikmatinya.
So I hope it’s obvious that my five star ranking does not reflect the quality of the book, but the level of enjoyment I experienced while reading it.When the gorgeous hung like a horse (actual quote) vampire millionaire nerd Roman Draganesti, inventor of synthetic blood and of the vampire Fusion Cuisine (Chocolood and LiteBlood) brakes his fang in the middle of the night, while he was sucking dry some woman look alike sex toy (you don’t even wanna go there, trust me), the beautiful mortal female dentist Shanna something is there to help him.
God's blood, this book is hysterically funny.Kerrelyn Sparks brings the creatures of the night to life in a fun, entertaining way.*I have not laught this much while reading a book in a long time...*"Shanna Whelan, a dentist which life has been turned upside down.
His invention of synthetic blood is not only used to safe human lives but feeds vampires as well.( The thought process behinde it is, so mortals will not any longer be needed to be fed upon).However Roman's group is looking for ways to help mortals and vampires to co-exist.
