https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763031.Portrait_of_the_Artist_as_a_Young_Dog

I started telling my friend this story from my childhood when I realized I had no memory of the event. It wasn't my childhood at all but Three Peaches. Dylan's stories are so natural and absorbing that they settle in with you.
Dez contos que relatam momentos da vida do autor, durante a infância e adolescência.Gostei muito dos primeiros contos - de quando ele era menino - e da inocência e perspicácia com que observa e descreve pequenos pormenores do comportamento dos adultos. Depois cresce, vai para a escola, vai acampar com os amigos,...e...não tenho paciência...
There were always a few Dylan Thomas poems in our English lit books in high school - "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night" was the most prominent - but I don't think I really got it until I heard a recording of him reading "A Child's Christmas In Wales" in his incredibly rich, expressive and tender baritone.
The stories in this little volume are in that vein - quaint and loving reminiscences of his boyhood Wales, but unsparing, and richly evocative.
This is beautiful.
These days most of the poems don't seem convincing, but the prose and 'Under Milkwood' still hold their own.If the title is a not so sly dig at Joyce the collection of stories invites and is haunted by a damaging comparison with 'Dubliners'.Thomas's prose sings and the stories of growing up in Wales are memorable.
'One Warm Saturday' , the last story, has been a favorite for decades.
And then the slow realisation that the flourish hides a vagueness and a willingness to trade meaning for rhetorical effect which Joyce would never have permitted himself in 'Dubliners'.
Bu kitabın arka kapak yazısında "yazarın en büyük eseri olarak gösteriliyor" gibi bir ibare var. Bunun doğru olduğunu sanmıyorum. Çünkü, Dylan Thomas çok büyük bir şairdi ve dolayısıyla en büyük eseri şiirleri olmalı. Thomas'ın bu tek düz yazı eserinde, başlık olarak James Joyce'un benzer isimli bir kitabına ve Joyce'un meşhur köpek korkusuna bir gönderme var. Bu ilgi çekici olsa da eser, eli yüzü düzgün bir şekilde kaleme alınmış (herhalde yani) hoş çocukluk anılarından fazlası değil.
Dylan Thomas (identificabil pentru cine ştie cît timp cu inubliabilul do not go gentle into that good night) a construit Portretul artistului ca tînăr cîine din zece povestiri care-şi adună conţinutul din experineţele directe ale lui Thomas, toate legate de vîrstele primelor descoperiri revelatorii: copilăria şi adolescenţa.
Tot martor, dar ceva mai implicat, va fi şi într-o povestire care deja e plasată în adolescenţă, un text-cheie pentru întreg volumul şi preferatul meu: „Întocmai ca nişte căţelandri“.
Întrebat de cei doi băieţi mai mari care-şi fac şi ei veacul pe sub pod de ce nu se duce acasă, puştiul care e obişnuit să fie singur le spune: „Nu vreau să mă duc acasă.
I don't like Dylan Thomas' short stories nearly as much as his poetry and Under Milk Wood, but he certainly has a way with words, with descriptions that are fresh and different.
For that it gets an extra star than I would normally give it.A couple of these stories -- 'A Visit to Grandpa's' and 'One Warm Saturday' -- are really going to stick in my mind.As with Under Milk Wood, likely to reward rereading: I'd read 'The Peaches' and 'Extraordinary Little Cough' before, and I liked them more this time.
I also liked them more in the context of the other short stories in the volume, somehow, although they aren't directly connected, other than that they're all at least somewhat autobiographical.
The man truly knows how to spin out a meandering, beautiful sentence.
You can bet he read his stories aloud, in the editing stage at least.
Autobiographical stories, set in and around Thomas' native Swansea, Wales, ranging from young boyhood to early adulthood.
Conflicts are subtle--eg, in the outstanding opening story, the rich visitor sticks her nose up at the tin of peaches, failing to understand or care that it's a rare treat for young Dylan's family, a luxury saved for special occasions.
Great cover!
Faves: The Peaches; The Fight; Extraordinary Cough; Just Like Little Dogs; One Warm Saturday
remarkable , singular beauty
There's a great deal of interesting characters to these stories and though they don't really knock you over the head, they tend to stick with you for awhile in all their small subtleties.
What I really enjoyed about this book is, and excuse me for being very Holden Caufield-y but none of the characters are fake or phony even the guy who convinces two women he loves them both.
You can't help but feel a love and affection for them.In a small way, it bears a crucial similarity to James Joyce's Dubliners in that all of these characters could in fact exist and be based on townspeople...yet, the polar opposite nature lies in the fact that none of these people seem to be filled with such depraved crooked malice.
This was such a good read.
It's really worth reading - actually made me laugh out loud which doesn't happen a lot with books =) It's a collection of short chapters about his childhood and his days as a newbie journalist in Swansea.
With lots of eccentric Welsh characters all over the place.
I especially loved the chapter when he was little and was staying with his uncle and aunt and his mad cousin who had built a church in the farmyard barn; or the one where he and a friend went for a hike out into the countryside full of good intentions.
Thomas is better known as a poet (ex. "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night") but here he uses prose, or, more accurately, prose-poetry. Thomas parodies the title and the structure, but not the content, of Joyce's "Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man", and "Dubliners". Whereas Joyce gave us windows into his youth in Ireland of the late-19th to early 20th century, Thomas writes of Wales circa the 1920s. Most of the stories are straightforward, but one or two are highly symbolic and make no sense when taken literally; So the advice is do not do so.
It was a kinda slow at times, and sometimes it didn't really keep my attention. The end is really good, but I'm not sure if it is sufficiently good to make up for the slow rest of the book. It's definitely well written, many of the descriptions are really quite beautiful, but overall it was just okay. The style was nice, and if I spent more time thinking about the book and what it was saying I probably would have liked it more.
I especially liked: The Fight and One Warm Saturday. I haven't read any Dylan Thomas before, but I really enjoyed the atmospheric feeling of his prose. I think the predominant themes of isolation, loneliness, and longing were captured beautifully in the exploration of coming of age in the city. Seems to me he has a pretty vast and deep understanding of the human condition.
I was doing research in Swansea, Wales while reading this book, which is a perfect locale since Thomas is from the area.
As soon as he lost his temper I was going to go home." As the stories progress, the writing becomes more surreal, something that troubles Thomas' publisher and delayed from having some of his stories published in a timely manner.
." Clearly, Thomas was a poet who incorporated his vision in his stories.
Kumar LuvJanuary 18 at 5:49pmDylan Thomas wanted to write poetry.
A sure way of getting some money was to write short stories for various publications.
Through the "stand-alone" short stories, we see his journey from boyhood to being an alcoholic (borderline alcoholic?) journalist.
He is not a hero, none of the stories have a hero's journey, but he isn't a loser either.
He is not looking for sympathy for the hardships he has faced - these stories always have someone even less fortunate than him in the frame - telling us there isn't anything unique in the poet's struggle.
These are stories of Welsh country - the places of Thomas' childhood, where the rough ways of life mingle with naivete in the most unexpected of ways.
They are not quite fictional accounts, as the poet/writer himself is often the main character (or to put it in another way, the main character is named Dylan Thomas).
But Thomas-as-short-story-writer exhibits less of the same concentrated power and mastery of the line as Thomas-the-poet, and thankfully it is the latter which we get, and which survives in the cultural imagination.
Meh. This was not an ideal starting point to reading Thomas. I liked a few of the earlier stories but the book as a whole was pretty slow-going for me, and I found it progressively harder to maintain my concentration on the text. His descriptions can be really beautiful though, so I'm still looking forward to reading his other works.
This is a short read, comprised of little stories from the author's life growing up in Wales. He does a great job capturing the time, place and people around him and is at times moving, poignant, awful and very funny. This book is well worth reading just for the chapter entitled 'The Fight', which made me laugh out loud more than once. This book is as funny and engaging as the cover.
I thought this was great. The language was beautiful, as you would expect from a poet, but there was a lovely tone to the writing, a love of place, of family and people that shone through. Evoking childhood as an adult is not as easy as Thomas makes it look. A delightful read."I climbed the stairs. Each had a different voice.” Wonderfully evocative and naturally poetic.
My dad told me I would love this and he was so right. Favourite line (of many) has to be "Jean clapped her hands like an actress. Although I knew I loved her, I didn't like anything she said or did." Brilliant.
A great writer, I just wasn't that into his short stories. On to his poetry, where I should have started, I think.
Beautiful :)
Very enjoyable collection of stories about people and places from a master of imagination and creative prose.
Thomas is a Top Five author for me. Under Milk Wood is what I would take to a desert island if I could only take one book.
Each story as clear and fresh as rain - yet always sadness following like a shadow
Dylan reads some of his poetry at the family dinner table.Extraordinary Little Cough - "One afternoon, in a particularly bright and glowing August, some years before I knew I was happy, George Hooping, whom we called Little Cough, Sidney Evans, Dan Davies, and I sat on the roof of a lorry travelling to the end of the Peninsular."So begins an entertaining tale of adventure and girls as the boys go on holiday in the Gower.Just Like Little Dogs - An off-season seaside town.
I didn't like all of it, but there was enough here to make me want to read more of Thomas' short stories.
3.5.
Magical!
