https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8520610-quiet
“There's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas.” I read this book for the same reason most people read this book: I am an introvert. I have always been an introvert, and it's a fundamental, sometimes limiting, part of who I am. I've learned to deal with it better over the years - learned to clasp my shaking hands together during presentations, force myself to breathe normally and keep my voice steady, even force myself to make the first move in social situatio
For example, extroverts often lead businesses better when there is little input from other team members; whereas introverts thrive in situations that rely on the input of a team because they are more likely to listen to the other members and implement their ideas.From Harvard Business School students to Ivy League professors to Rosa Parks, Cain looks at the different types of influence introverts and extroverts have.
I can feel sad for a bruised tomato no-one wants to buy (hey, he tried his best too, not his fault someone dropped him!), and while everyone else goes to the modern, light apothecary across the street with the super nice people always happy to help, I go to the dark and older one who never has clients (how else will he survive?)Turns out I'm not that weird.
And I can go on and on.While reading this book, on occasion I was nodding so hard I thought my head might fall off.There were very little eye-opening surprises in this book, and even a few things I didn't agree with or I would have hoped for her to explore more.
I try to make it entertaining for the voters, myself and the others I work with because of its repetition, but by 7:30 pm when the polls close I don’t think the language I was using was English.My spiel went something like this…….Me: “Hi. What ballot can I get for you today?”Voter: “Uh…….what do you mean?”Me: “Today we have, Democratic, Republican, Libertarian or Green (I have never given out the last two)”.Voter: “What’s a Green party?”Me: “I’m not sure, but there is next to nothing on their ballot.”Voter: “I’m and independent (code for embarrassed Republican) can’t I have both a Democratic AND Republican ballot?”Me: “No, you must declare one and you will be that party until the next primary.
Many of these don’t even know they are introverted, because of the push to be extroverted has made them fool themselves into thinking they were extroverts.Another interesting thing I learned from this book is that extroverts are motivated by rewards.
I also think that it's nice to have someone sounding the alert that someone speaking quietly is not wrong by default- turn on cable news for thirty seconds and you'll be reminded why that is important.And yet, despite the evident time put into this book, and despite my bias towards it, I couldn't shake the feeling of cynical questioning of what felt like a great deal of pop psychology and arguments made based on feelings, anecdotes and newspaper clippings collected into a narrative.
Therefore, despite its strengths, and despite the personal enjoyment and help that I have taken from the book at this particular time, I can't rate it as more than an above average read.
She points out that a third to a half of all people are introverts; though many of them have learned how to masquerade successfully as extroverts, since American society encourages extrovert behavior to the point where many introverts feel there is something wrong with them.
It seems to me to say more about modern American society than it does about the differences between introverts and extroverts.
As Cain says, many societies - she particularly singles out Asian societies - do not place the same premium on extroverted behavior.
While listening to this book, I was constantly reminded of Al Franken’s Saturday Night Live character, Stuart Smalley, and his mantra, “I’m good enough, I’m smart enough, and doggone it, people like me.” Well, those who understand me do.
Unfortunately, I don’t think the people who need to read/listen this book (extroverts) will.The book is not an “introverts are superior” diatribe but rather an explanation of how we can leverage personality types most effectively.
This could be dangerous because they’re going to get their way more meaning that many of their bad ideas are also going to be implemented.Oh, another thing I intuitively knew but now have support for is brainstorming sessions.
A guy who reads constantly and writes over a hundred book reviews a year is an introvert?" Shocking but true.
Susan Cain chronicles her own struggles as an introvert, as well as showing how America went from being about character to about personality, right around the time movies and TV started getting popular.
Cain covers topics like being an introvert in the business world, where people who talk the loudest get their way more often than not, something I see every day in cubeland.Actually, the book gave me insight into the behavior of some of my family.
This is the first time in my life I'm saying this: I'm so proud to be an introvert :)
And as I made my way through the entire thing, I felt like I was learning more and more about myself.My whole life I've been an introvert.
But still, it's frustrating.What makes being an introvert so hard is that––especially in the US––we are held up to what Susan Cain calls the "Extrovert Ideal." That is, we are told our whole lives that the "ideal" person is an extrovert––outgoing, confident, well-spoken, etc.
If you're a shy/introverted person, you are constantly told that you need to change––that if you continue to be quiet, you're never going to get anywhere in life.
Thank you, Susan Cain, for writing this remarkable book!
It puts into words what many introverts know intuitively; strength does not have to be loud, in your face, or aggressive.
Through impressive research, Ms. Cain clearly demonstrates the importance of both personality types and the value of introversion.
I only wish that I could have read this book when I was younger so that I would have been more confident and accepting of my own nature.
After reading it now, I do feel that I can better articulate the importance of my role in society and take pride in the contributions that introverts have made throughout history.
As you can see, i've been mixing up my reading lately, THIS ISN'T ROMANCE YAY!Quiet is a fascinating book about the prejudice that our society faces against introverts, and why it's unfounded, and how, as an introvert, you can overcome that, as well as just KNOW yourself better.
I never really classified myself as such before, but reading this, I understand why, if I'm exhausted, all I want to be is alone, and how I'm extroverted only when I can control my environment and how that's a THING!
If you're shy or are unsure, this is a great read.
There are parts of Susan Cain’s Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking that made me laugh, even as tears stung my eyes.
Quiet has given me permission not to regard my limited in-person social circle as evidence of a failure of personality, but as respect given to my true nature: “Love is essential: gregariousness is optional.” In some ways, working through the theories and examples in this book is exhausting and dispiriting—if I’d had a better understanding of how I function best, would I have made different choices?
I loved it so much that I wish I could give a copy to all of my friends and relatives.Susan Cain does an excellent job of explaining the different strengths between introverts and extroverts, and the history of how America came to idealize extroverts.
But Cain's book reminds us that societies need introverts, too — the thinkers, the listeners, the people who look before leaping.
I will add managers and supervisors to the list of people who I think should read this book, because it helps to explain some workplace and group dynamics.
Value what you value and understand that some people aren't naturally conflict avoidant, that they like to express anger, surround themselves with a bunch of shallow social jostlers, and that we oughtn't judge our extroverted peers when they jump into decision-making strategies that sink ships and endanger the lives of everyone around them just because they couldn't be bothered to think things through before opening their damn mouths.And please don't judge all the sheep that are impressed by the aggressive blowhards and follow on their every word because they're just so damn charismatic, either.It's okay to think and spend some time alone from others.
It might just be the salvation of the world if enough of us just throw off the yoke of social expectations or the stigma of shyness and just get prepared, build up all our talents and reserves in peace, and strike when the time is perfect.
There's a real pleasure in recognition.
Hearing about yourself, finding out you're not alone, it can be a huge relief and release.
And so, as a long-time (although fairly gregarious) introvert, I enjoyed this book quite a bit.
Not much of it was truly surprising, but still, it's nice to read a book that validates the way I tend to operate anyway.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Pull out the mask for the job, but then allow yourself the freedom to be who you really are at home: "According to Free Trait Theory, we are born and culturally endowed with certain personality traits- introversion, for example- but we can and do act out of character in the service of "core personal projects." In other words, introverts are capable of acting like extroverts for the sake of work they consider important, people they love, or anything they value highly." pg 391 ebook.My favorite parts of the book were about sensitivity and social situations.
It puts the introverts under a shower of compliments, in the kind of spotlight we're comfortable in: a generous ode that we can absorb from the comfort of our own cozy corner in our own cozy homes, telling us we have a value in this society.This may seem like a ridiculous reason to give stars to a book, but I think it's a good thing that someone gave attention to a group of people who are not used to, and not always comfortable with, getting so much positive feedback.
Yet they're often ignored.Early sections of the book are devoted to closely examining this extrovert ideal, in a hellishly hilarious Tony Robbins motivation seminar; in the running of a super church; and in studying how Dale Carnegie altered the social landscape with his gung-ho bible How To Win Friends And Influence People.Cain looks at the science of temperament, showing how differences are evident from childbirth – an extended bit about “high and low reactive people” is fascinating.
She also shows that introverts might actually be physiologically more “thin-skinned” than extroverts, and how introversion and conscience are connected.Understanding personality types isn’t just theoretical.
Update: Solid 5 stars..( Jan. 3rd 2016)...I had a reason for a 4.9 rating years ago..I still believe what I wrote ...
I feel everyone benefits from this book..'everyone' ...
Why not a solid 5 star rating?
At 'times' I felt the author (an introvert herself), painted a slanted side of the extrovert.
[these were just 'small' between-the-line-gut-feelings I felt 'sensitive to']....However:This book is 'excellent'.
...A fast read even 'with' sitting at a table taking notes.
All teachers and parents would benefit from reading this book.
*Everyone* would benefit reading this book!I'd suggest this book to EVERYONE!!!
By falling back on her own brand of introversion, it felt like she was both negating the argument that the personality type expresses itself in an inexhaustibly many ways and also even alienating other expressions of introversion to a degree.Actually, I wasn't always crazy about the kind of people Cain used as examples of introverts who were able to overcome their crippling shyness or need to be alone (because shyness isn't always an introvert-specific trait, as this book did teach me) to function -- nay, thrive -- in the vast, sometimes overwhelming world beyond their rich inner landscapes.
“Introversion – along with its cousins sensitivity, seriousness and shyness – is now a second-class personality trait, somewhere between a disappointment and a pathology. Introverts living under the Extrovert ideal are like women in a man’s world, discounted because of a trait that goes to the core of who they are.” I came across the author of this outstanding book when we studied for our Library studies last year. We were to present on the topic “What are you passionate about”, and my friend p
Susan states, in a quote I love in relation to reflecting on the lives of her friends and classmates who she envied (in her own quiet way I imagine).
“Because of their inclination to listen to others and lack of interest in domineering social situations, introverts are more likely to hear and implement suggestions… Extroverts, on the other hand, can be so intent on putting their own stamp on events that they risk losing others’ good ideas along the way...”
This book would appeal greatly to those who feel they are quiet reflectives or those who live with and/or parent children with sensitive and high reactive children.
Susan Cain, former Wall Street lawyer and self-described introvert, investigates how introversion has become dangerously scorned in the current American "Culture of Personality." I had not fully realized how drastically our cultural values have shifted--and how much American society pushes us to conform--until reading Cain's book.
Because we have been culturally pressured and trained to admire extroverted behavior, many of us may be dangerously ignoring our introverted characteristics.This was a game-changing book for me, and I suspect it will be eye-opening to most people who read it.
I read it for my hometown book club.
I was really excited to read it, because I knew this book was very popular.
I love the ability to learn from a book.I believe I learned from this book.
Also, it was interesting to hear what you can do to help someone with stage fright preform at their best.However, I felt the book repeated itself.
It just talked about the same material in a circle from a different angle.A lot of the time I felt like this book was written so introverts could feel validated for being an introvert and that they weren't anti-social.
It's perhaps not a surprise that Susan Cain, the author of Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking identifies herself as an introvert. Being quiet, introverted or shy is still seen by many as a problem or handicap to overcome so I can see her motivation for writing it.One this book's premises is that in the last 50 years or so, the Western world moved from a culture of character to a culture of personality, which according to the author has given an advantage to people
Being quiet, introverted or shy is still seen by many as a problem or handicap to overcome so I can see her motivation for writing it.One this book's premises is that in the last 50 years or so, the Western world moved from a culture of character to a culture of personality, which according to the author has given an advantage to people that enjoyed outgoing, uninhibited personalities.
This book helped me understand myself better, identify those traits that makes many of us "introverts" different and learn how to use them to our advantage, both on our professional and personal lives.
Alas, I'm not sure I found much helpful here.Part One is 'The Extrovert Ideal,' and looks at how the change from the 18th century ideal of personality to 20th century cult of personality emphasized extroversion as a valuable workplace trait.
To give her credit, she admits from the beginning that there is no uniform definition of 'introversion.' At page 11, she finally defines her terms, but she unfortunately tends to define them in terms of examples:"Still, today's psychologist tend to agree on several important points: for example, that introverts and extroverts differ in the level of outside stimulation that they need to function well.
I was able to obtain a pre-pub reader's copy of Susan Cain's new book.This is a useful book for the introvert forced to be in the public eye.By public eye I mean more than 1 or 2 people. I, as an introvert, gained a better understanding of why I am the way I am. Most introverts will find helpful tips and info on dealing with work and daily matters. Now if I could only have enough money to move away and live in seclusion. ;-)
It's just that school and work and the outside world try to tell us that being quiet, that listening and ruminating over things is wrong, that we should be quick to speak and blurt whatever is on our mind.I've known I was an introvert for a while, but it was so refreshing and liberating to learn that there were others with my "problem".
And that is the second gift Cain gives us in this book: how to be an Introvert in an Extrovert world and not want to choke yourself at night.I feel like, after reading Quiet, I have a plan for facing my "work problems".
I really liked this book, especially the beginning part.
I so needed to read it.
For years people have been telling me to come out of my shell and to be more outgoing and I realized I had definitely playing the role of pseudo-extrovert all this time!
I enjoyed reading the fact that we introverts actually have power and hidden strengths.
The list of famous introverts surprised me, Rosa Parks, Al Gore and Gandhi in particular.
The book also shared some insight into the thinking patterns of extroverts.
All in all, it was an interesting book though the end did drag on a bit.
She provides an intriguing, in-depth perspective on introversion, its connotation in contrasting cultures, and the psychology behind it.A profusion of the nonfiction I've read has contained too much of something - too many random anecdotes, too much scientific jargon, too many unnecessary statistics or explanations.
Cain references various studies conducted by psychologists and discusses several aspects related to introversion, such as the extrovert ideal, how extroverts and introverts can compliment each other and work together, nature v.
One of the best works of nonfiction I've read.*review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice.
And this is saying, "We, the introverts, are speaking out."However, the book was neither as powerful nor as interesting as I was hoping....Cain does a great job of blending together different aspects.
Cain uses both psychology and biology to try and explain the differences between extroverts and introverts.
...This book is at it's best when Cain is exploring how introversion is a valuable and worthy trait or way of being.
Another thing that bugged me were her "real life introversion stories." Here is how an introvert struggled.
P.S. I really like the page or two that Cain dedicates to exploring Moses (an alleged introvert) and Aaron (his extroverted mouthpiece).
