https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14686.The_King_of_Elfland_s_Daughter
Like Milton's Satan, the danger is not that evil should destroy us, but that we should come to understand its mind: to sympathize with a devil.Dunsany's dances freely with heathenry--his magic is not Tolkien's Christian allegory, but mocks austerity and fears any death that would bring on the overwhelming awe of Heaven.
The story is told neither from the perspective of mankind nor of Elfland, but some shifting point between.This book is markedly different in its central concerns from either the Christian Epics that proceeded it or the Genre Fantasy that followed.
I think "Lord Dunsany" sounds rather better, so I find it no wonder that such a poetic man as the 18th Baron of Dunsany chose simply to be known as Lord Dunsany.According to WP,  "The title Baron of Dunsany or, more commonly, Lord Dunsany, is one of the oldest dignities in the Peerage of Ireland, one of just a handful of 13th to 15th century titles still extant, having had 21 holders to date."And Edward Plunkett:"Born to the second-oldest title (created 1439) in the Irish peerage, Dunsany lived much of his life at perhaps Ireland's longest-inhabited home, Dunsany Castle near Tara, worked with W.B. Yeats and Lady Gregory, received an honorary doctorate from Trinity College, was chess and pistol-shooting champion of Ireland, and travelled and hunted extensively.
message 8: by mark also, Orion hunts and kills a unicorn.
message 12: by mark more unicorn hunting, argh!
Dunsany's stance on this fake binary set up by the Freer is clear.and man that whole chapter on Lurulu the troll acquainting himself with earthly ways, and earthly time, was just marvelous.
it was wonderful to see how Dunsany describes the passing of earthly time in such a way that it felt as strange and magical as elfland itself.
the chapter with the Elfland King trying to soothe his daughter had some of the most beautiful writing i've ever read.
The prejudice and inability to understand or try to see another's struggles, the ease with which we step out into strange new lands so long as others take the strain and make the sacrifices, the unpreparedness of people to take responsibility for their actions and decisions, the instinctive reaction of so many to stamp on the unknown, the strange, the different and perhaps the most sad of all the way in which age and experience can serve to close off enchantment, barricade against beauty and wonder and circumscribe the world with common sense and platitude.This book was fabulous in every sense of that word.
ELFLAND - (HOW) CAN WE KNOW IT?I liked the ideas of how Elfland is occasionally but unconsciously perceivable by mortals:"now lost to them but for dreams, a song of such memories as lurk and hide along the edges of oblivion, now flashing from beautiful years of glimpse of some golden moment, now passing swiftly out of remembrance again, to go back to the shades of oblivion, and leaving on the mind those faintest traces of little shining feet which when dimly perceived by us are called regrets."Artists of all kinds are most receptive and "have had many a glimpse of that country, so that sometimes in pictures we see a glamour too wonderful for our fields; it is a memory of theirs that intruded from some old glimpse." Similarly, Elfland's "flowers and lawns, seen only by the furthest travelling fancies of poets in deepest sleep".
However it formed, The King of Elfland's Daughter is possibly the single most beautiful work of fantasy I've ever experienced.The book could almost start with a 'Once Upon a time...', as it is given an almost fairy tale style.
The novel is dreamy in feel, and moves at a slower pace than most fantasy books; yet, this is to the readers benefit, as it allows a savoring of its passages and words, which only help to maximize enjoyment.
"The beauty of Dunsany's book is not merely on the surface, and the depth does not simply stop at the words.
There would be extensive genealogical charts and detailed maps of every nook of its gigantic world, because, you know, "world building." And it would be incredibly tiresome.What the good Lord Dunsany gave us was something much more wonderful, a poetic, elegiac fairy tale of 240 pages that dwells not on obsessive detail, character motivation, and micro-managing "world building," but nevertheless feels like a grand epic.
A clever legerdemain, but what else would someone expect from a magician of words?There are so many great reviews out there that I don't even know what I can add to the conversation.
This chapter, more than any others justify a comment I have seen recently, that the best way to read Lord Dunsany is not inside, hemmed in by four walls and a ceiling, but outside, in a forest glade or by a quiet river, far from the concrete jungle of modern life.Since I'm counting the dreamchasers in the book, I couldn't leave out Orion the hunter who is the answer to the Parliament of Erl request for a magical ruler, the heir to both worlds - Earth and Elfland.
The daughter of the King of Elfland is therefore, within the rest of the narrative tragically divided between the mundane world of men and the magical, eternal and ethereal world of the Fae. This novel is, therefore, to a great extent, a tragic romance of epic proportions, situated around the concept of a world divided between the unknowable other and the mundane.Lord Dunsany makes great reference to the world of Erl and humanity as "the fields we know." His story is fixated greatly around this concept, and beyond being merely a beautiful work of fairytale art, is a story of borders.
I am a little hesitant to give this a 3, for Dunsany writes wonderfully. His prose is by turns lyrical, clever, humorous, insightful, and moving. However, I don't so much enjoy reading long descriptive passages with very little action or even plot. Although the plot elements were solidly put into place, they then don't do much for the bulk of the book, and by halfway through I mostly stopped caring. Dunsany seemed far more interested in landscape and atmosphere than characters.
Not going to happen. The first 70 pages are as beautiful as it gets. And then things began to drift. An endless hunt for a unicorn (which was kind of boring), and a troll meditating on the nature of time. At this point I threw it across the room. Seriously, I felt somewhat duty bound to read this, since Lovecraft loved LD (and I like Lovecraft). Like Lovecraft, Dunsany works, IMHO, best in the shorter bites. If you like (archaic) poetic language and high fantasy, I highly recommend Eddison's The Worm Ouroboros.
Send your son to a magic land so we can have some magic (no one, by the way, brings up the fact that someone magical already lives in their mist -- the female witch Zoorenderel, who enchants the sword and then basically raises the child (Orion) that Alveric and Lirazel have.
6) Does anyone else find it weird that a grown woman (who has in fact had a child of her own) sits on her father's lap in Elfland all day long???7) The 12 men who asked for magic in Erl get it and then realize that they don't want it after all.
I think this is the first Dunsany book I ever read and it was high time that I went back for a re-read.
I'm not one for littering my reviews with quotes but if one wants to read a few to get a sampling of his style, there are numerous here on GoodReads.This is no "Lord of the Rings"; You won't get detailed world building and epic battles here but you will find a work that was just as (if not more) influential on the fantasy genre and any one who considers themselves a fantasy reader should read this book at some point, preferably sooner rather than later.
یه جایی از کتاب هست که ۵۰ تا جن از سرزمین پریان میان تا به شخصیت پسر داستان کمک کنن که تک شاخ رو شکار کنن، و هر کدوم از این جن ها از یه سگ مراقبت می‌کنه، واقعا برام سواله که با این تعداد موجود می‌شه رفت شکار؟ روی هم ۱۰۱ی میشن!این کتاب بیشتر من رو یاد اوایل جلد ۱ ارباب حلقه ها انداخت، توی اون کتاب هم، حدود ۳۰۰ صفحه از اول کتاب خیلی اتفاق خاصی نمیوفته و نویسنده صرفا داره تواناییش رو تو توصیفات شاعرانه نشون میده، که خب برای مخاطب امروز خیلی خسته کننده است.خوندن این کتاب رو فقط به اونایی که طرفدار سرسخت فانتزی هستن توصیه می‌کنم، ولی خب بدونین که خوانش بسیار سختی داره.
ماجرا آغازي فرخنده داشت اما ليزابل پري بود نه ميرا هيچ بدخواهي نداشت اما ... لرد دانسنی در این داستان خیالی از آلوریك جوان ـ شاهزاده دره ارل سخن میگوید كه چگونه دشتها را پشت سر میگذارد و از مرز شفق سرزمین پریان میگذرد و عروس خود لیرازل شاهدخت پریان را به همراه میآورد . آلوریك و لیزارل صاحب پسری میشوند، اما اندكی بعدلیزارل به سرزمین پریان باز میگردد وآلوریك به جست و جوی او میپردازد .او در این جست و جو، تنها شمشیری به همراه دارد كه جادوگرزپروندرل با فولاد غیر زمینی برایش ساخته است .در همین اوان پس

And this book goes on to chronicle what happens after.It involves the ceremony of marriage for mermaids who forsake the sea, a dove cote, a hunt for the unicorn, the horns of elfland, a sword made of thunderbolt iron, and more, but the real reason for reading Dunsany is, of course, the crystalline singing prose:To those who may have wisely kept their fancies within the boundary of the fields we know it is difficult for me to tell of the land to which Alveric had come, so that in their minds they can see that plain with its scattered trees and far off the dark wood out of which the palace of Elfland lifted those glittering spires, and above them and beyond them that serene range of mountains whose pinnacles took no colour from any light we see.
Well, no, I can: the language is olde worlde, the phrase 'the fields we know' is used far too many times, it's more of a fairytale like story than modern fantasy, though it's sold as being one of the defining moments for the genre, and if you're looking at it from a modern point of view, the characters and their motivations are hopelessly unsatisfying.I thought the language was beautiful, though: Dunsany struck just the right note for me, and for the most part I liked his turns of phrase.
I can see how it influenced modern fantasy, and if you expect satisfying characters and development in a fairytale-esque story then...
The world of Elfland is not so much a different world but a state of being where everything is beautiful and you can be content in the immediacy of the moment.I loved the witch ziroonderel, who has magic and lives in the "fields we know" and understands and appreciates both the worlds.
And the troll lurulu who lives in the Elfland and is very curious about the ways of men.This is not a book with a fast paced plot and action but a leisurely, rich and pleasurable experience.
I read in the evenings and for this novel, I always looked forward to returning daily to the poetic prose and magical landscape of Elfland.
The writer, you can tell, is mature and steady in his craft, beautiful minded, and simply perfect.
Something interesting--I loved Infinite Jest too, but that novel is 180 degrees different from The King of Elfland's Daughter.
Foster's voice, while clever and insightful, felt unstable, wobbly, and exploring the world like a bright child might, grabbing hold of shiny objects and giving sometimes rather eloquent descriptions of human frailty.
Lord Dunsany, on the other hand, is full, mature, ripe and steady.
مشخصات کتاب:دختر شاه پریاننویسنده: لرد دانسنی سال انتشار: ۱۹۲۴ترجمهی فارسی: دختر شاه پریان/ لرد دانسنی؛ ترجمه آرش حجازی.  تهران: درایت، ۱۳۷۸. ۲۵۰ ص.خلاصهی داستان:“دختر شاه پریان” ، تجربهای ابتکاری از موضوعی غیرعادی است. بیشتر افسانههای پریان با جملهی “و ازدواج کردند و به خوبی و خوشی زندگی کردند.” به پایان میرسند. اما دانسنی میداند که نمیتواند چنین باشد. چون در رگهای امیرزادهی جوان داستان، خون زمینی جریان دارد و متوجه مسایل زمینی است، اما دختر شاه پریان نه میرا است و نه زمینی، پری است. ازدواج آنه
در نتیجه محتمل‌ترین توضیح ممکن این است که من برای دنیای دیگری خلق شده‌ام.»این جمله به نوعی اوج تراژدی نهفته در قلب «دختر شاه پریان» را بیان می‌کند: داستان ازدواج بین آلوریک، یک انسان، و لیرازل، یک پری (یا الف)، که در ابتدا طرح آن با اهداف استراتژیک و سیاستمدارانه ریخته می‌شود، اما آلوریک و لیرازل به محض ملاقات با یکدیگر، یک دل نه صد دل عاشق می‌شوند و آلوریک پی می‌برد این پیوند قرار است چیزی فراتر از ازدواجی تشریفاتی برای جلب رضایت پدرش و مردمش باشد.
At times during the reading of this book, like Alveric I felt that I must have "lost Elfland".
While in many ways this is a book not to be missed, read it when nothing presses..not time, not life, not circumstances.
If I were to try and come up with a modern reading experience close to The King of Elfland's Daughter it might be Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell.
You (as I said above) read the book for the experience more than the actual story.
The town Erl lies on the edge of Elfland, and when Alveric, a human prince, marries Lirazel, an elvish princess, the line between the mundane and the magic begins to blur.I found this quote by Jo Walton that sums up my feelings on the novel: it "is probably best described as good but odd.
It’s not surprising he couldn’t make this work for whole novels, when as far as I know, nobody else has ever quite made it work in prose."Neil Gaiman wrote the intro to the edition I read, and I can see how this novel inspired Stardust.
I kind of feel like this story started to get away from Lord Dunsany.
It starts beautifully, with perfect fairy tale styling.
And there are, throughout, some incredibly beautiful passages.
I especially loved the witch's response to being asked for a spell to banish magic.
But about midway through it starts to drag, with the unicorn hunt, and it lost some of that magic for me.
It's a shame, because Dunsany was a very talented writer, with a knack for descriptions.
(Of which there are many, and long ones at that.) 3.5 stars rounded up for the sheer beauty of the language.
Not the most original story but the writing,the wit,the beauty of the story is so great that it fills you with awe.I still think Lord Dunsany is even stronger in short story form,he does other forms of story in his short stories like no other i have ever read.Novel or short form, he is literary giant,stylist that must be read.
A scathing critique of organized religion and immigration policies.I have a real review, but it can only be told of in song.
O sweet and far from cliff and scar The horns of Elfland faintly blowingBlow, let us hear the purple glens replying: Blow, bugle; answer, echoes, dying, dying, dying"from Tennyson's "Blow Bugle Blow""The elders had desired magic for Erl, but the actual touch of it, or the mere thought of it, perturbed the folk in their cottages."The King of Elfland's Daughter was published in 1924, written by Lord Dunnany, the 18th Baron of Dunsany, aka Edward John Moreton Drax Plunkett.The novel per wikipedia (sorry!) Is "widely recognised as one of the most influential and acclaimed works in all of fantasy literature," and certainly I can see echoes of the novel in the Lord of the Rings movies (sorry!)Now this is not my normal reading zone at all - hence the recourse to Wikipedia and movies - but I read the novel after reading Wimbledon Village: A history told through its street names.
Absolutely beautiful storytelling. Dunsany helped bridge us from fairytales to modern fantasy; stylistically, Tolkien owes to Dunsany the haunting lilt of his best English phrasing. This story delights and surprises, and turns upon rather a different theme than readers are led to expect. Highly recommended.
Aside from one of his short stories, this is (to date) my only experience with Lord Dunsany's work; but along with William Morris and George MacDonald, he was one of the three principal shapers of the English-language fantasy tradition before Tolkien.
And the author also explores other real-world psychological realities, such as the effects of obsession, the interdependence of leaders and followers, the way a great cause can become an end in itself apart from its supposed object.
Had the author's characters been more sharply drawn, this might have been a four-star book.
If one is expecting a fast paced epic fantasy they will be in for a disappointment.
In my case it is not at all that I only want to read action packed stories.
However for novel length books I prefer more in depth characters.
One dimensional characters do not bother me in tales, but I expect more in novels.
I find I would have enjoyed the style of writing in this novel had it been shorter.
However I rate by how much I enjoy a book and in this case I couldn't give it more than 3 stars.
Honestly I wanted to like this more than I did.
Really great book if you have the patience. Today's audiences may find it superfluous on many levels, especially in a variety of descriptions. But there are so many times in the book where Dunsany achieves true greatness. This is a fairy tale for the literary crowd, with amazing images, and a classic for the die-hard fantasy/fairy audience of today.
