https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215251.Paper_Lion
I checked this book out from the Berkeley Public Library about a year ago, and then left it on the BART train during my commute home.
What's the total worst thing about this is that the version I checked out was an original first edition hardcover, which now it's lost forever on the rails.I can only hope that whomever snagged the thing instead of returning it to the library has actually bothered to read effete journalist George Plimpton's account getting the living snot tackled out of him in the Detroit Lions training camp.
This is the dream of every guy who thinks they could be a professional athlete, Plimpton gets to live the life of one for one preseason.
As you can imagine, it is a lot of work and getting to live your dream isn’t always the way you dreamed.
The best parts of the book are Plimpton’s writing ability to give the reader the feel of being part of the team instead of a fan.
Obviously the real life characters who stand out stand out b/c of their larger than life personalities which allows Plimpton a chance to showcase his writing ability.
Plimpton formulates an elaborate story about having played quarterback the previous season in Canada for the "Newfoundland Newfs," but his cover is blown in one of several laugh out loud funny scenes the first time he attempts to take a snap from center and doesn't know where to put his hands.Plimpton lives with the team throughout training camp, attends the meetings, studies the plays, participates in night raids on other players wearing `fright masks," and spends exhausting days with them on the practice field, notebook and pencil ever at the ready and often stashed when he is called onto the field.
Plimpton actually ends up taking five snaps in the game, running each of the five plays he has learned, with hilarious results.Paper Lion was one of the first glimpses behind the scenes into the world of NFL football, and it was a huge hit.
(Maybe you know George Plimpton by his daughter who played Stef girl with the glasses in the movie The Goonies.)Now this time we will hear more of George Plimpton.Especially if you follow the roster teams of Detroit Lions and see that there is a new Backup Quarterback.
George found the perfect article to write...about a Football player that is trying to get into the Detroit Lions team and what it's like day-by-day.
George Plimpton shows you, literally shows you how getting into the football team, Detroit Lions really like.Made into a Movie called Paper Lion made in 1968 starring Alan Alda as George Plimpton.
This is a pretty solid look at what it was like to play pro football in the early 60s.
By today's standards, it's pretty quaint.
I couldn't fathom an author today naive enough to think he can jump in and play professional QB without even pee-wee experience at the position.
Stephen Fatsis wrote a book last year about being a placekicker in training camp with a modern team, and I'm going to read that soon to see how it compares.If you think back to the era of Mad Men, this is another reminder of how different things were just 50 years ago.
There is a reason this book is a classic. Plimpton's writing holds up well fifty years later. I grew up in Green Bay and my family contains many rabid football fans. His stories had me rolling with laughter. From forgetting his college fight song to wanting to run pass plays from the 1920's, Plimpton kept me turning pages. He covered everything from the varied personalities of the team and the sadness of being cut or career-ending injuries. I highly recommend this book for football fans and those who love them.
quest'uomo è diventato il mio eroe!! da giornalista a (quasi) QB di una squadra dell'NFL.. In più, adesso sono preparatissima sui Lions dei primi anni '60 :)
Paper Lion was a semi-sweet non-fictional novel about a writer who joins the 1963 Detroit Lions to write about what it's like to be on a football team. The story was heartfelt and very technical. full review: http://burgersandbooks.weebly.com/blo...
Great fun.
Maybe a bit too technical at times for people with only a cursory knowledge of football, but I particularly liked those bits because it's interesting to see what stage the game had developed to in the 60s.
What stuck out to me though was life after football for these players.
This is especially pertinent in today's league where people are still fighting for pension packages for these legendary players who paved the way for the huge contracts dished out today.
Reading the additional bio notes included, you realize players back then couldn't be JUST football players.
After football, they'd have many different careers, most players having more than one.
What Plimpton, and thus the reader, takes away from his training camp experience is an examination of the routine and interpersonal relationships.
Not only does this occur pre-merger, but Plimpton also writes in a "gee-whiz golly" style that has just a bit too much reverence for what he's examining.
Although he's wearing the jersey, he clearly empathizes more with the children catching passes than his fellow quarterbacks.For football fans desperate for an image of training camp, this can get you your fix until the next game is on.
For people looking for a more candid examination of sports and the role of athlete, I would suggest instead Jim Bouton's excellent Ball Four.
I got this book for my sports-nut son to read, or to have on hand when he needs a book for a school reading project.
Probably wouldn't happen today.
A pro team using a private school as a practice venue probably wouldn't happen today either.
Matters of safety and equipment have vastly changed since Plimpton wrote this.
One might wonder at the latent or blatant misogyny and racism depicted in the book, as compared to what exists today and how much/little things have changed.
It was a fine enough book, probably much more appreciated by sports enthusiasts than myself.
Read this book is you want some insider info on what American football was like in the 1960's.
They both undertake interesting challenges, like Jacobs' A Year of Living Biblically or The Know-It-All. In this book, Plimpton tries his hand at quarterbacking, and tries to cram the one hundred plays, the footwork, plus what his teammates are doing into his head.
Plimpton namedrops great players and coaches like Bobby Layne, Night Train Lane, Jim Brown, Paul Brown, Dick LeBeau, etc.
The book is really about how football inspires such loyalty and how the players played, not for the money, but for the camaraderie and the teamwork.
Plimpton traces his own experiences in Lions training camp at the end of the franchise's golden era in the early 1960s.
The stories capture an NFL long since past, where training camps, drafts, and gameplans were more simple activities.
Given the complexity and money in current pro football, it is striking to read about the small distances between fans and players, the lazy nature of the business, and informality of gameplanning.
Yet, it seemed that about 90% of what Plimpton discusses about football strategy, violence, professionalism, and myth some 50 years ago still echoes throughout the sport today.
A great sports read and a must-read for any football fan.
I was pleasantly surprised by the detail about what it would be like to be a player for a professional football team.
Before reading, I thought that the book might seem dated, since football has changed a bit over the last two decades, but I didn't find it to be that way at all.
veteran salaries, long-term impact on health of football, and rule changes are still being discussed today.
I found a description of a running back's collision with the goal post in the end zone (he bounced back about four yards and then ran back to the end zone, to give you an idea of how hard he hit it) especially relevant to today's discussion about the short and long term effects of head injuries.
The book--the story of Plimpton's stay through about half of the Lion's preseason in the early 60's--is well written.
Unlike other stories like this, Plimpton is a player (nominally, he's the 3rd string QB), and it's fun to see how he interacts with the other players and the coaching staff.
Similarly, this not an ethnography; Plimpton's goal is not to quietly embed with the team.
The book's purple prose and faux-seriousness is more than made up for by Plimpton's honest apprehensions of actually taking a snap and thorough and interesting descriptions of players and the little events that make a team a team.
That Plimpton didn't realize the biggest part of his dream gives the last third of the book a feeling of anticlimax, but perhaps it is part of the book's charm.
Players get cut all the time (and Plimpton takes us through that process) and not every story has a happy ending.
At the time that Plimpton attended the Lions' training camp, the H-shaped goal posts were in the field of play, at the goal line; the AFL was just getting off the ground; and there was no generally accepted term for the quarterback sack.
Paper Lion: Confessions of a Last-String Quarterback by George Plimpton (Harper Review 1966)(796.33).
This is the book that invented “participatory journalism.” It is a classic about professional football in which a first-string writer tries out for last-team quarterback.
Plimpton talked the Detroit Lions into allowing him unprecedented access to the team during training camp: he would participate with the team during drills and practices leading up to the season, and he would actually be allowed to take snaps at quarterback during an intrasquad scrimmage before an actual football crowd.
The results weren't pretty, but it made for a fascinating and often hilarious book.
I really loved this book.
The experiment that the auther George Plimpton had was a great idea.
He wanted to try to be and suceed as the third sting quaterback on a team.
The players didnt know about the experiment until they saw that Plimpton couldnt recieve a snap.
No teams would let Plimpton come out to try his experiment.
Then in 1963 the Detroit Lions said Plimpton could come out.
In a preseason game the team was up big and Plimpton though he could get in.
Anyway, i loved this book and recommend it to everyone.
This wasn an okay book.
Okay.
George Plimpton is a great writer.
He has a sports writers sensibility and vision.
However, during reading this book, my mind wandered and I really couldn't focus.
Maybe if this was about an author who was at Pittsburgh Steelers training camp instead of Detroit, I could relate more with the players, coaches, etc.
Paper Packers.
Paper Steelers.
Paper Eagles.
Anything but Detroit.
The book is a bit dated as well.
Imagine the late George Plimpton writing about the current state of the NFL and training camp.
Now that would be a fun book to read.
Paper Lion by George Plimpton What happens when a writer decides to play professional football in the NFL? That is the entire joy that comes from George Plimpton’s timeless book, Paper Lion. Plimpton decided to write an insider’s eye view of the making the team and playing in a game. The year was 1965, Alex Karras (the dad from Webster) has been suspended for betting on games. Karras is the only name I recognized, but others were quite famous in their time. The book is quite enjoyable, as the pl
Paper Lion by George Plimpton	What happens when a writer decides to play professional football in the NFL?
That is the entire joy that comes from George Plimpton’s timeless book, Paper Lion.
Plimpton decided to write an insider’s eye view of the making the team and playing in a game.
The year was 1965, Alex Karras (the dad from Webster) has been suspended for betting on games.
The book is quite enjoyable, as the players were fun and the author an astute story-teller.
This is a major classic that many are not reading, but I believe that many non-reading sports fans will find this book quite enjoyable.
Often called one of the best books of all time in sportswriting, I finally got around to reading this and it was pretty good, but dragged in some places.
I wanted to know how he played in the games, thinking it was at the end of a few games, but it turns out he didn't play that much and when he did it wasn't good.
He had a lot of good reporting from other players on what it's like to play in the NFL, but I can get that in a lot of books.
Still a good read though, I'm glad I finally got around to it.
A must for any NFL football fan.
This was a very entertaining book, even if you don't like football, or care if any of the rookies make the team or anyone gets hurt.
Plimpton has no illusions about his own ability, but he does have an eagerness to be a part of the team and to discover what one needs (or used to need)to make it as a football player.
Most of the players--a faceless mass for us and Plimpton at the start--are drawn distinctly and creatively.
Some of my favorite parts have nothing to do with football, such as the section where Plimpton annotates the schoolbooks he finds in an unused classroom (the Lions practice at a private school).
George Plimpton carved out an unusual career for himself; a journalist by trade, starting with "Paper Lion," he produced a series of best-selling books based on his experiences playing for various professional sports teams.
"Paper Lion" is by far the best of these.
Plimpton recounts his trials as a Detroit Lion quarterback, as he goes through the ordeal of training camp and interacts with players and coaches.
It's doubtful that even many sports fans could relate to this book today; it springs from an ancient era (early 1960s), when pro football was an entirely different game.
Still, it was well-written and remains one of my favorite sports books.
If I were 13 and grew up near Detroit and the year were, say, 1968, this would be the single greatest thing I ever read. Well, maybe 11 and 1967? Now I can't help but feel like it's an oversimplification and we're missing a lot of insight. Also this portrayal of the NFL—before it became America's premiere entertainment establishment/business—is very outdated. But it sure is fun. Plympton's self-awareness and humility makes for an entertaining read and the players all seem like swell albeit nervous and crazed guys.
Plimpton joins the Detroit Lions as a rookie to find out what it’s like. They let him play in the practices and the intra-squad game but not in a game against another team. The book is pretty good, even though I’m bored by football in general. Plimpton lets the reader know just what the rookie goes through: the tension, the exuberance, fear of being cut. It’s also interesting just how much rapid assessment the players do: a tightening of the knuckles, a shifting of the eyes can give away a play. There are also some funny bits.
Without a doubt the standard to which all participatory journalism/new journalism works should be compared. What I love about this book is how Plimpton, an erudite Ivy League man, never lets himself be above his "teammates" on the Detroit Lions. He's clearly an outsider on their turf and brilliantly communicates the feeling of loss and helplessness during the action sequences, but also gives the reader a first-hand account of life in a 1960s era NFL training camp.
It's a great window to a "simpler time" in sports - the author takes great pains to show the players as regular people, which is the real strength of the book. There's no way this could be written now in 2013 with such empathy for the team around him.A good read for fans of the game - I grew up in the 70's and 80's, so some of the players are only known to me as legends or coaches, which made it more personal.
This book is great for football fans wanting a taste of football history, or for people who don't get football fans and want to understand their passion. Plimpton was a fantastic writer, and this behind the scenes look at a training camp from back when players weren't multimillionaires made me feel like I was right there with them, sharing in their training camp escapades and in Plimpton's struggles to not embarrass himself while pretending to be a pro. I really cannot do it justice.
Mixed feelings on this book.I guess this was groundbreaking participatory journalism. It did not blow me away as very humorous or narratively compellingIt was interesting to get a description of a football team in the pre-Super Bowl era. Professional football has radically changed in the last fifty years. The Detroit Lions of the 1960s feel prehistoric.Plimpton sounds like a total non-athlete, someone who didn't even grasp the most rudimentary aspects of football.
