https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22320.Pattern_Recognition
This is a great book.***2015 reviewStylish.That’s what I am as I read Pattern Recognition by William Gibson.
All of us, we are all stylish and cool.I turn page after stylish page but slowly my IMDB handsome brow creases, I frown.“What – “The Most Interesting Man in the World’s gut sags.“ in the–“The models sprout tattoos and one belches.“ hell – “My pants legs flare out and my perfectly coiffed doo melts to middle aged scalp.“ am I reading??”What are we doing?
Interesting enough, but nothing special. It is a nice sort of time capsule of the early 2000s, technologically speaking.
It'll happen one day, you'll see. William Gibson WILL right an ending that resembles something other then a last ditch attempt from a man desperate not to default on his contract. It will not stink of a man who has just watched the sunrise with a headful of Jack Daniels. No it will be thematically fufilling, and tie up and enrich the man threads that have wound through the novel like a tapestry. Giving these rich themes, imagery, and characters the proper glory rather then merely tarnishing everthin. It'll happen one day I'm telling you. Sigh, but not this time.
I am an excellent reader, as I know many of my friends on goodreads are, but I don’t think there’s enough appreciation of reading as a skill in our world.
And as readers go, they’re the ones who make the connections, who read the patterns that most people don't.
They're the ones who analyze too much.My reading of Pattern Recognition puts me in the category of the pro ball players.
I loved the book on its own merits, and I know that I was able to read the merits in a way that others won’t be able to access.
I am not going to discuss the connections in the book.
The highly technological societies (New York and the "mirror world" of London) where things are similar but a little different and the efficient, individualistic, widely traveled and rootless characters make Pattern Recognition feel dark and surreal and more like SF.Boone Chu was an interesting character and I was disappointed he was not developed further; same with Bigend.
(view spoiler)[Did Cayce's recovery at the end suggest that the current stress on marketing brand names and symbols is not so bad, or did she just surrender to the inevitable, that brand names and marketing are here to stay?
Cayce is also a follower of a website called 'Fetish Footage Forum' (FFF) where mysterious film clips - periodically published online - are discussed and analyzed by large numbers of people around the world.
As the story opens in August, 2002 Cayce is in London, having been hired by the 'Blue Ant' company to evaluate a proposed new shoe logo.At a meeting with Hubertus Bigend - Blue Ant's boss, and Dorotea Benedetti - representative of the logo's designer, Cayce nixes the proposed logo.
After Cayce okays a second proposed shoe logo, Hubertus hires her to find the makers of the inscrutable film footage on FFF.
Gibson usually has both male and female protagonists in his books, who may or may not even see one another during the course of the story (the almost-but-never-quite is something he comes back to again and again).
Well, not in anything like the traditional sense.The plot of the book revolves around Cayce's attempts to track down the origin of mysterious video clips that have surfaced on the internet.
One of these firms becomes interested in tracking down the origin of the footage as a way of discovering just how it is that something can become an underground sensation, and puts Cayce on the job.
This was my first William Gibson book, and I thought it was beautifully written, quite a literary novel.
I liked the characters, and I liked the idea of Cayce being sensitive to trends and brands, and having a logo "allergy".
I'm now contemplating scratching the logos off of everything I own.Plot-wise, this isn't the most exciting book I've ever read.
Still, it was a very readable, intriguing story, and I'll continue with the trilogy.The weakest point of the novel for me was the mysterious "footage" that drives the plot.
I was never drawn into the characters' fascination with it.
Nonetheless, I hope by providing links along with this ongoing message about why Amazon should not be part of our lives, this message is kept alive.
And yet it is hard to wake up in the morning without seeing its encroachment into more of the world.
It described a world I don’t live in and would not want to.
I found it completely mysterious that although labelling made her break out in spots and panic and so on – an allergy to the notion – nonetheless she lives in Starbucks.
Starbucks gives me the willies and I don’t vomit on sight of Michelin Man, the childhood start of her issues.
I was hoping to be blown away by the legendary William Gibson (none of whose legendary books I have read), but I found that Pattern Recognition reminded me a lot of Reamde by Neal Stephenson: it's a pacey, interesting techno-thriller that just never quite reached the peak of Awesome.
I found Gibson's writing to be stronger than Stephenson's, but his characterization weaker.The main character is Cayce (pronounced "Case") Pollard, who has one of those odd freelance consultant jobs that can only exist in the modern world: she's got a sort of preternatural sense for marketing.
Gibson believes that 9/11 is one of many nodal points in history in which people began making connections and patterns out of seemingly random things (such as the “it’s-really-like” phenomena Cayce notes upon going to a new city).
This is obvious because Gibson refers to Cayce’s anti-art/fashion/logical thinking mindset and yet he makes this a novel, clearly wanting the reader to think critically or at least acknowledge some "deeper" ideas.
This novel will get you thinking and entertain you all at the same time.A huge fan of William Gibson’s work and all things cyberpunk (including the dozens of spin-off series and role playing games like CP2020 and SR), I’ve got to admit that Pattern Recognition tops anything he’s ever written.
But the story was hard to follow at times with the author making points that went way over my head at times.It is written in a semi-stream of consciousness style, which didn’t help me to follow what was happening.
Stream-of-consciousness writing would have to be one of the things that most turns me off a book.
I think in 2003 I didn’t even have the internet on at home, so my perception of what was commonplace technology is probably skewed!The last 60 pages were the best part as things started to come together and make (a little) more sense.So there were aspects of this that were interesting, but overall, the difficult to follow plot made it hard going.
Hell, I kinda like this one when taken on its own, but I'm still on the first page here and when combined with everything else, it's much too much too much much too too choo choo COME ON, RIDE THE TRAIN, HEY, RIDE IT.NUMBER TWO: Make so many name-drops, so many specific allusions that the reader can't decide whether your book is a book or a commercial:It's not enough for something to be a fridge, or a lamp, or money, or tea, in Pattern Recognition('s first chapter).
You've read at least Neuromancer and like the whole cyberpunk thing, so you either saw this on a list of cyberpunk novels or you noticed that it's Gibson, so you're thinking about giving it a shot.
It has a sort of literary feel to it, but it's still telling a down on the streets tech story, with just enough of a noir feel to not want to add that label, but not be too offended if someone else suggests it.It's fun and worth a read, but do try Neuromancer first.
I mean, they are very different books, but this is just such a weird place to jump into Gibson.
This was a really fun book to read that I enjoyed all the way through. Unfortunately, the end did not live up the rest, leaving me sitting there wondering just a little bit what the point had been. It wasn't bad enough to spoil the enjoyment I got out of reading this book, but it was certainly a little jarring.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I feel like Gibson gets it, whatever “it” means—that crucial comprehension and vision of how technology is changing what we are as a species.Once again someone is trying to film Neuromancer, and I wish them the best of luck—this is no doubt a tricky project, although I would love to finally see it as a movie.
Cayce’s suspicion and small rebellions against Bigend also remind me of Case’s self-empowerment while working for Wintermute—they aren’t just pawns of the big player, but quite vocal employees who have the ability to affect the outcome of the game, if not completely change its balance.But Pattern Recognition affected me on a much deeper level than Neuromancer, which is why I feel comfortable giving it five stars.

I'd been meaning to read something by Gibson for a long time. I thought it would be Neuromancer. But this book fell into my hands first. Despite its 2003 copyright, which makes it very old by computer-world standards, the high-tech world that Gibson whips up here feels fresh. It takes place today--not in the distant future. Email, the web, viral marketing, high fashion, international espionage, contemporary underground art all collide here. I could not put it down. Takes place mostly in London, woth side trips to New York, Tokyo and Moscow.
riveting. plus I felt hip reading it.
But, still, putting aside my vast disinterest in designer clothing, Cayce was likeable enough, in a kind of anxious but determined way, and I was as curious as any about the explanation for the footage.I won't go into that particular plot resolution.
Though the relative fade of interest at the ending is also to do with Cayce's role in the plot.There are quite a few women in this story, but all the powerful actors are men.
Only Cayce and one other woman (who is your standard eviljealousbitch) have real plot importance in the efforts to solve the mystery.
so many in fact, that Cayce is hired to find out who the filmmaker is, since the ‘marketing strategy' is so brilliant.Little does she guess that the search will bring her from her New York City apartment to London, Tokyo, and Moscow, involving her with vicious businesspeople who may be cutthroat in more ways than one, Cold War era spies, mobsters, millionaires, hired thugs, computer nerds, dealers in vintage calculators, conceptual artists...
But I suspect that Gibson visited both London and Tokyo during the writing of the book – but not Russia.In the future, I suspect people will read this book to gain a feel for what it was like to live at the dawning of the 21st century – and they'll get some pretty accurate information (mixed in with the spy thriller stuff!)
Definitely the most accessible Gibson novel written up to this point in his bibliography - it lacks the complex density of Neuromancer and is pretty rooted in the here-and-now.
Also unlike his previous novels, Pattern Recognition only follows one protagonist, Cayce Pollard, instead of jumping between several entwining storylines.Gibson's portrayal of internet groups and internet friendships feels very authentic, especially when compared with fellow sci-fi author Cory Doctorow's.
The only downside is the ending, which feels fuzzy despite being completely forthcoming about the book's mysteries.
But as I think about it, Gibson's endings are all pretty identical, aren't they?
From BBC radio 4 Extra:Episode 1 of 5Cayce Pollard is a young American advertising consultant with an unusual allergy - she's hyper-sensitive to brands and branding.It's a pretty lucrative affliction, because Cayce is a 'coolhunter', employed by multinational companies to test new brands and logos.
She knows, instinctively, what will work - and what won't.But visiting London for what should have been a straightforward job, Cayce becomes involved in something altogether more mysterious and complicated...Episode 2 of 5'Coolhunter' Cayce travels to Tokyo in search of the online footage's creator.
Episode 3 of 5'Coolhunter' Cayce Pollard is mugged in Tokyo, but who is behind her assailants?
(view spoiler)[I had such high hopes for who the maker would be and what the motivation would be behind the footage.
I thought we'd find out they were like Banksy - a vandal on the run making hidden political statements in the footage, or maybe someone hiding some sort of geocaching puzzle in the footage (since a map got decrypted) that would lead to some monetary prize.
But nope, it was none of that.Maybe I've just read too many dystopian thrillers.
(hide spoiler)]
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #367.
The Michelin Man and Tommy Hilfiger logos sent her into bouts of nausea.This strangely allergenic woman is also a follower of 'the footage' - a series of seemingly randomly released video snippets, anonymously found on the internet every few days or weeks.
While Cayse moves from place to place and meets interesting people and the story of the footage becomes progressively stranger, there's nothing that ever really hangs in the balance for anyone else than Cayse.
I'd recommend it for anyone who is a Gibson stylist or for people with a thing for stories about spies (or ex-spies).
As Win Pollard says (and Cayce reminds us several times) you must always leave room for coincidence.
Or, as pattern recognizer extraordinaire Nate Silver says, beware of overfitting.Ben in his review succinctly described Pattern Recognition as "The only piece of popular fiction that ever got the internet right..." What's great about that description is that you have no idea what it means, in terms of a novel, but it makes you want to read the book described, right?
And Pattern Recognition is a book about the internet, that gets the internet, which means that it is ultimately a book about people, that gets people.
Brilliantly written, but like the rest of Gibson's novels, the ending leaves something to be desired.
Not exactly unfulfilling, more like seeing all of the pieces come together into a picture that is just a little underwhelming.
Just like the rest of Gibson's other works (Neuromancer and Spook Country being the only two i have read, in all honesty), the story is initially compelling and the mysteries and conspiracies are thought provoking.
To top it off, Cayce Pollard is very interesting character.
Her physical allergy to branding is novel, and makes sense, in conjunction with her line of work.
That said, i loved the ambiguity surrounding Win Pollard.
This book is from the early 00's and a point where he had shed a lot of his familiar very dense and 'scifi' style of writing and ideas.
Remember having to do that kind of thing?So while this is not really anywhere near as much of a challenge to read as his early SF books such as Neuromancer, Mona Lisa Overdrive and others; his style is still there in the story and in shedding much of the poetic and abstract detail in the prose his writing of dialogue and character has developed well over time I think.
I read this book in a class called "The Novel and Globalization"--and I believe having that context was helpful-at first.
My favorite part of reading the book was digesting the refernces to art, architecture, and literature, throughout that acutally added meaning to the text rather than just being "name dropped" for the sake of it.
I think this is one of the real reason why this novel can be creddited with dealing with the post-modern problem of recycling refernces--Gibson highlights the difference between the ones that matter and the ones that don't.
