https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31871.History_of_Political_Philosophy
This view is also, it seems, paramount among the authors of this collection of essays.
Covering the history of political philosophy from Thucydides to Hiedegger, the authors encourage the reader to consider the less-popular works of well-known thinkers, so as to better appreciate the true scope and depth of their thoughts.
The essay on Marx presents the subject's views with equal respect and fervor as does the essay on Blackstone.The reader will also find an extremely helpful index, and copious reference notes and additional reading recommendations at the end of each chapter.
Overall, this is an essential read and valuable reference tool for today's busy philoso-punk.
More than one year, since I started reading this book. Reading Leo Strauss is questioning everything about your own mediocre thinking and just reveling in the beautiful sentences and in-depth insights about the most extraordinary political thinkers..
This hefty tome has given me a broader perspective of some of the most influential thinkers throughout the ages. Besides showing me gaps in my understanding of political philosophy, and kindling a greater thirst for knowledge, Strauss' History provides an overarching perspective of intellectual history. It traces modern thought to it's roots, and opens up an invaluable conversation with the past. Thanks in part to this book, the present makes more sense.
It is an anthology written by various academics, covering a variety of political philosophers and others who while not philosophers contributed to the field of political philosophy.
It ends with an essay on one of the editors, who was deceased when the third edition was produced, Leo Strauss, and his work in the history of political philosophy.I am going to forgo any comments on specific pieces of text.
Seeing this, and that it took me quite awhile to finish it, and that political philosophy is not a topic that I am into, I still enjoyed reading it.
The first essays I read were on Hobbes, Locke and Rousseau and consequently had the opportunity to be amazed at their wonderfully divergent use of the concept of natural man.
One of the reassuring aspects of Locke's natural man is that he is less extrapolated from the contemporary situation than either Hobbes' or Rousseau's.
Rousseau would have accepted Locke's history of private property being the basis of civil society, but would have made of the demarcation the fall of man.
Locke's natural man was a man looking after his interests in the quiet, English countryside; Rousseau's was Tarzan without Jane.
neo-conservative presentation, accurately reflected in the title. chapter per writer, beginning in Athens, and ending with Strauss himself as object of inquiry. how humble!
It gives the reader Strauss' thoughts on what political philosophy has been and should be again.Selected for their general interest and their accessibility, the essays in the book provide a solid foundation for understanding Leo Strauss and his political philosophy. Highly Recommended!
A very interesting book. Very well written but I think it will take reading it two or three times to completely get everything out of it.By the way, Nietzsche was brilliant but one messed up dude!
Not for light bedtime reading, but essential reading for those who want to understand the thought leaders through the centuries who have contributed to what we would call the Western tradition of political philosophy.
The reader will have at least a passing familiarity with some of the names, if not the specifics of their thought contributions.
But there will be many other names that most readers have never heard of, yet they too made important contributions to the stew that is "the Western tradition." Any serious student (or practitioner) of politics should read this book at least once.
Essential reading for anybody interested in political philosophy. Great to pick up after reading the primary source material of a political philosopher to have an essay to clarify any queries you have and analysis that you may well have missed whilst reading. From Burke to Marx, and even lesser known names (yet nowhere near insignificant), clearly this is the definitive history of political philosophy - though will, of course, require updates! Excellent work.
Not really a book to read or have read, but one to be turned to at need. It's an encyclopedia of political thinkers and their thought, written by eminent friends and students of Leo Strauss and Joseph Cropsey, as well as by Strauss and Cropsey themselves. Its essays are concise and surprisingly clear, for Straussian writing.
Focusing on the contributors to western philosophy, this volume is a highlight in the work of political philosopher Leo Strauss who specialized in classical philosophy and focused his research on the works of Plato and Aristotle...
This is a terrible textbook and supports the idea that there should be no textbooks--just read good books about or by political philosophers. The authors have a very circuitous communication. The authors prove they are intelligent but not smart enough to get to the point.
A collection of essays, but it is an outstanding synopsis of every major (and some minor) political philosophers. It is as concise as can be, but still in-depth enough for you to learn about and speak knowledgeably of anyone you need to research.
One can posit that there are many philosophers and their many writings, but what this composite did was give me a clear, concise, and succinct look at many of the great philosophers. Excellent book and a must read as a primer to philosophy.
Really useful! I used it in my Introduction to Political Philosophy course at Yale University, and it helped me understand a lot more about the thoughts and lives of the greatest thinkers of our time.
This book is essentially an encyclopedia of essays on the political philosophy of most of the big names in the field from Plato through to Heidegger.
Meritoriously very valuable, although written with strictly conservative thesis. Partially anti-Jewish.
Seneca
Marvelous textbook for a course taken in college. Got me hooked on philosophy.
OK, but wordy. Good study guide.
I have read the Chinese version several years ago. But the translation makes me a little confused. I don't know it will take me how long to finish it.
History of Political Philosophy by Leo Strauss (1987)
