https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4538.The_View_from_Saturday
Frankweiler was one of my favorites when as a youngster; I know I read the book two or three times at least.
So when Mom hijacked my library account (hi, Mom!) and put this one on hold for me, I was eager to read through another Newbury-award-winning novel by E.L. Konigsberg.Here's what I found on page one: "They called themselves The Souls.
I loved reading about Ethan and Julian especially, and I found Mrs. Olinski's perspective intriguing, as well -- especially in comparison to the students'.But at the same time, issues were mentioned but not addressed to my satisfaction -- not even in quick summary.
I learned so many interesting things.
The kids I hung out with in High School were very smart, funny and intelligent.
I knew several of these kids in my high school.
Another detail I love about this story is there is a focus on finding a place for kindness and listening.
I love this quality of kindness she brings out in the story.
I absolutely loved this story.
I loved how the beginning you are trying to piece it all together and how satisfying the end is.
There is a foreign student or two that I love.
Sometimes I see it on my bookcase and groan, "You were so annoying!" and other times I'll sigh, "That's the cute loggerhead book!"What is it with author ladies for young people including an older person that kids can relate to?
Me at any age gets the feeling that these stories are written for a certain type of reader in mind: the kid that got perfect grades.
The kids worked together better, for me, in their own lives rather than organized hyper "We got better grades than you!" stuff.
I wouldn't have respected a kid that trusted adults, anyway.
As a testament to how awesome this book is, any time I carry it around the school, a bunch of kids will run up to me and say, "That book was so awesome! The answers are in the back" and then run away.
Ultimately, we read it aloud together for book group.
There were a lot of things to like in this book, but ultimately the complicated time structure got in the way of the story.
Tee shirts are printed up with a noose on them, because of a grammatical error that the principal from the opposing team makes vis-a-vis "hung" versus "hanged".
At another time, a student brings an actual noose to a competition.
Reading it with my daughter, I had to explain to her why hanging was not funny, and how I was disappointed that their beloved and wise teacher had not explained why.
At first this book seemed to be a children's version of Slumdog Millionaire: Four kids take part in a quiz and beat everybody else although they are among the youngest competitors. As in Slumdog Millionaire nobody understands how they know all the answers. So little stories are told showing how they had all this knowledge.But this book soon takes a different turn. It is most of all the story of a wonderful friendship. I wish I had friends like these four kids!
I think I wasted a good part of life reading this book I don't know why anyone would want to read it. If I were the author I'd be so ashamed of myself for writing such a terrible piece of garbage. I wish I could give it zero stars.
I picked it up because a) I love Konigsburg's From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E.
The book's also wickedly funny -- Konigsburg, as usual, never missing an opportunity to poke fun at officious figures of authority.A lot of the reviews on Amazon.com question whether this book actually speaks to the children that form its ostensible audience.
It's a good question; it's really a very sophisticated book, and the four sixth-graders are most unusual and wise beyond their years.
I think it will find its own dedicated audience who adore it in the same way many of us adored From the Mixed-Up Files.
It was probably a gift from my grandmother, who used to go to Half-Priced Books, garage sales, and library for-sale sections because she knew how much I loved to read.
This book was a product from one of those gifts.
I never read it when I was younger, as I was a firm believer in judging a book by it's cover.
Fast forward to now, with me reading it long overdue.The story-telling aspect of this was amazing.
I think this is the kind of book that gets better with every re-read.
But I would recommend it to more advanced ELLs or any "outsider." OK, so maybe Shaina?Conference notes: Given the challenges mentioned above, I would check in frequently to ask "Who's speaking?" and "What's his or her relationship with the other characters you've been introduced to so far?" In addition, because the way that those characters' self-perception and relationship with others changes over the book is what makes it such an interesting read, I would definitely ask about that.
Was glad to finish it at the end of a rough day.
Gazing and listening are all right for church, but they sure kill a lot of conversations." P 64"Sometimes silence is a habit that hurts." P 70"By the time they get to sixth grade, honor roll students won't risk making a mistake, and sometimes to be successful you have to risk making mistakes." P 120"After my accident it took more courage to get back into the passenger's side of an automobile than it took for me to drive again." P 151Very, very good.
What a lovely book. Not sentimental, overwrought, or oversimplified, like much of middle grade children's literature. E. L. Konigsburg's writing is sharp and the story is told with the care and cleverness it deserves. I appreciated her treatment of the unique group of pre-pubescent characters through deft perspective shifts and each with his or her own story of personal growth. What I liked most is that she doesn't assume her audience is incapable of rising to the complexity of the narrative and relationships. This isn't dumbed down for children, but instead perhaps, simplified for adults.
This was a Newberry book but the characters and situations didn't ring true so I don't think it is valuable to kids or they would enjoy it. It was a little boring and predictable.
I remember thinking when I first read The View from Saturday that no sixth graders talked the way Noah, Nadia, Ethan and Julian did, and I still think that, but I noticed this time through that each of the students really does have a unique way of speaking, and for that I applaud Ms. Konigsburg.
I especially like that Nadia never uses contractions, and that Noah begins half of his sentences by saying "Fact."What I like best about this book is how each of the members of Mrs. Olinski's academic bowl team--calling themselves The Souls--is able to answer questions in the final round based on their experiences, rather than their studying and practicing.
First read in sixth grade for school; then, recently, I picked it up again on a whim, because working in literature education with kids of a similar reading level made me think back to the books I read when they were around their age.
But my impression of this book seemed to ripen with age until I was convinced it was canonical lit for sixth graders everywhere.Well, the reread was disappointing.
I thought about it and I don't really think it was a characterization thing because so many of the characters talked that way, without contractions.
I was quite enjoying this, but the character of Mr. Singh bothered me, and the behavior of Mrs. Olinski, at the end of the book, made no sense.
Mr. Singh comes off a little too strongly as the mysterious, wise Asian, somehow privy to the whole internal truth of the various character's stories, despite being almost a non-entity the whole of the novel.
Mrs. Olinski even has thoughts to that effect when talking to him "I had never told anyone ______" How did he know?
Considering that tolerance is one of the minor themes of the book, the stereotype really stood out, in a bad way.
I reread it about once a year, and this time I read it aloud to my younger sister, which made the experience even better.The View from Saturday is the story of four children, their sixth-grade teacher and an academic bowl competition, in about that order.
The rest of the novel bounces between the actual year-long preparation from the Academic Bowl championships and a continuation of the final round.This is a book about people and compassion, rather explicitly stated at the end of the novel, but brilliantly realized nonetheless.
I loved the way Julian changed the cruel words on his book bag to say "I am a passenger on Spaceship Earth!" I also really liked the themes of kindness and courtesy.
All four kids in this book are precocious oddballs, but they are appealing because of the views we get inside their heads and hearts.
Based on the four books I've read by Konigsburg, I'd say she writes unusual stories.
It seems to me that, like Julian, the author enjoys being a bit of a "magician," and she plays the crowd well.
In this book I learned fascinating bits about calligraphy, sea turtles, acronyms such as "tip," etc.
They all are in the same 6th grade class, with the new teacher Mrs. Olinski.
Eva Marie Olinski watched Margaret Draper Diamondstein hug her grandson The new Mrs. Diamondstein was dressed in a jogging suit.
She had always regarded the color turquoise, like shocking pink and chartreuse, as the color equivalent of the word ain’t quaint when seldom used, but vulgar in great doses.I just find that sentence the mix of narration and opinion to send tingles up my arm.
Her books are well written and teach such great lessons. Young and old can enjoy!
4.5 🌟 for a amazing story; in which children choose their teacher and a beautiful mythical friendship...
This was a really fun well written book. I read it for my YA book club and I enjoyed it immensely.
It's a nice, but somewhat predictable, story about four students who help their teacher to regain confidence in herself when she returns to teaching after an accident that leaves her in a wheelchair.
The character development of the four students who make up "The Souls" (as the team calls itself) is explained in four back-stories that are interspersed with quiz bowl action.
Konigsburg really understood the characters and what it is like to be a kid in 6th grade, trying to fit in and play by society's rules.
Student Noah unexpectedly replaces Allan Diamondstein as best man at Florida retirement home wedding of silent stubborn Ethan's grandma Margaret and red-hair Nadia Diamondstein's Jewish Grandpa Izzy.
On Saturdays, Julian Singh invites 'Souls' to Sillington House, his dad's new B & B, for afternoon tea "always at four".
I like brave calm Julian, who outwits bullies 'Ham' Hamilton Knapp and Michael Froelich.
Noah, Nadia, and Ethan found kindness in others and learned how to look for it in themselves" p 157.
Ethan repeats bus ride many times to get the effect, so I peg him last, Nadia next.
The author's love of learning and academia for the sake of increasing one's mind are evident in the text, but E.L. Konigsburg takes that affection for intellectualism and masterfully forms it into a magical story, filled with astonishingly special characters and their one-of-a-kind situations.
The author's mind-blowing wisdom is at its very pinnacle here, and it was a greater show than I ever expected to witness, to have the opportunity to sit back and drink in the seemingly enchanted story thread as it wove its way along.
This group of sixth-grade academic bowl champions is a very special conglomeration, and the reader could sense throughout the pages of the book that something important was at work.
A teacher, Mrs. Olinksi, who was returning to school after being paralyzed in a car crash ten years earlier, had always been excellent at choosing students for the Academic Bowl.
However, this year in particular, she chooses four very different and unexpected students for the team.
The book honestly portrays realities of life for today’s children in that two main themes are teamwork and seeing people who are different than you in a positive light.
Characterization in depth allows the children in the story to be convincing and each has qualities that can be viewed in children today.
Also, the book helps children enlarge their points of view.
After, reading those four chapters I began liking the book more and more and then I finished loving the book.
After this book, I want to go to the US more and more because of the Academic Bowl, and the questions, and teachers, and more.
I want to thank my teacher Mr. Frantz for giving me an experience of my life.
I also want to thank E.L. Konigsburg for making me realise a lot of things in life, that can help you, also because this book made me realise that you can have really good friends.
But before they were a formidable team called “The Souls” meeting every Saturday afternoon for tea, they were first four diverse individuals coming home from a trip; and in between answering quiz bee questions that are somehow related to their travel stories are narratives of their life lessons and personal reflections as to how circumstances and kindness have brought them together as a team.When I was in sixth grade, I didn’t care much about musicals and calligraphy, and was practically unaware that turtles do not adapt well to ecological changes.
The sixth graders in the story, who discuss and ruminate these topics as if they were only sipping tea during afternoon tea times, have definitely made my grade school days look utterly bland and mediocre.
The boy is told by his mother at the beginning of the story to write a B&B letter to thank his grandparents for having him at their house.
I flipped to another section of the story to see if it improved, it did not.
He is being told some information about how the turtles grow and his mental comment is, "I'm not sure why they are telling me this...I'm the one who wrote the paper on it for school and got an A."The attitude that was presented in the sections of the book that I did read was not an attitude that would be considered appropriate in our household, so I did not even finish reading the book.
Do YOU want a book that goes deep into a plot?
Do YOU want a book that is easy to go along with so you can sink into the story?
What I got out of the book: People get smarter when they learn something.
If you ask your mother a question, and she answers it, you are getting smarter.
Do you need to go into detail about how they learned an answer to a question when it is just that?
There is no plot.
There is no need for an entire chapter to be about somebody getting a puzzle.
