https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361284.Playing_and_Reality
Fantastic. You really only need to read the first third of this book to get it, but for me, the basic ideas he is putting forward here are really life changing. He is proposing a fundamental addition to the nature of our perception of reality (inside, outside, and playspace between), that I think is particularly fascintating for the artist, the compulsive, and the romantic.
"It is only in being creative that the individual discovers the self."

This is another fave of mine. I could never give a good description of what this book is about cause my understanding it is always changing (and lacking at times).
Wonderful way of answering Freudian theories of creativity...engaging essays on their own and also great for the lit. classroom...
Alison Bechdel'in Annem Sen Misin? grafik romanını okuduktan sonra listeye aldığım, başka şeyleri araya sıkıştırmaktan bir türlü fırsat bulamadığım kitabı nihayetinde okudum. Çabuk okunan bir ritmi yok, fakat bu anlama zorluğundan ileri gelmiyor. Satır satır hazmetme işlemi var. Yavaş ama çok keyifli gitti. Hem kendi anılarım, hem başkalarının anlattıkları birer birer hafızama geri geldi. Ayrıca bir çok davranış biçiminin gerisindeki mantığı anlamakta çok faydalı oldu. Bir çok kere okunabilir.
Winnicott is a poet.
As a therapist who has been practicing over twenty-five years, he is probably my greatest inspiration.
His perspective turns on appreciation of the creativity and imagination that is part and parcel of psychological development.
In a time when theories that blamed mothers for problems their children were experiencing, Winnicott set out to reassure and support mothers.
Probably not of great interest to too many who are not in the therapy profession but, nonetheless, a groundbreaking work.
Skimmed and picked around more than read (...read more heavily in some parts than others, is the fai
I remain free to form my own ideas, so I can fully appreciate his.Some favorite quotes:"The thing about playing is always the precariousness of the interplay of personal psychic reality and the experience of the control of actual objects.""Here was the picture of a child and the child had transitional objects [teddy, blanky], and there were transitional phenomena [playing] that were evident, and all of these were symbolical of something and were real for the child; but gradually, or perhaps frequently for a little while, she had to doubt the reality of the thing they were symbolizing.
Cultural experience begins with the creative living first manifested in play.""Immaturity is a precious part of the adolescent scene.
"A good enough mother" supplies the "environmental function" that is imperative to the infant's successful (non-traumatizing) transition to understanding his/her existence as a separate individual.
object-presenting, and most importantly, a "good enough mother" is able to time these action in attunement with the infant's needs.
Winnicott also supplies case examples of adult from his therapy practice who suffer from the feelings of dissociation, "un-realness" that is a result of trauma during the transitional period.For me, this was an interesting read, though I'm afraid that a lot of it went over my head.
This book explains what mom's do wrong to cause their kids to end up disordered--I mean--gay and transgendered.
And let's say that I entertained the idea that maybe being gay is a disorder caused by bad mothering--even then, this book...
If I were a psychoanalyst who took Freud seriously and worked with schizo people, perhaps I would see the value in this book.
Or maybe this book is poorly written crap that most people can't understand and therefore give it a high rating?His view of how babies see the world does not agree with what I know about child development.
Saffet Murat Tura'nın muhteşem önsözlerinden biriyle başlıyor kitap. Az çok nesne ilişkileri teorisine aşina olanların daha rahat anlayacağı bir kitap olduğuna inanıyorum. Özellikle "Nesne Kullanımı ve Özdeşleşmeler Yoluyla İlişki Kurma" ve "Çocuğun Gelişiminde Annenin Ayna Rolü" bölümlerini çok beğendim ve hem kişisel hem mesleki anlamda çok faydalı bilgiler içerdiğini düşünüyorum.Kişisel tespit - 1: Ben geçiş nesnesiymişim.Kişisel tespit - 2: İnsanların hiç kızmadığı biri olmak -eğer öyleysem-, o kadar da iyi olmayabilir.
"...cultural experiences are in direct continuity with play, the play of those who have not yet heard of games."
While you can probably get parenting advice out of this, it doesn't appear to be have written with this purpose making it rather difficult to do so
I love this book, especially "The Use of an Object" and "The Location of Cultural Experience." So good.
One of the best books of ALL TIME. This mean is an endearing genius about humans. Wish i could hug him!
It is pretty hard going in places but there are some worthy pieces of wisdom to be found for the persistent reader.
Fascinating juxtapostion of our consciousness and how we develop
I think there is use for a term for the root of symbolism in time, a term that describes the infant’s journey from the purely subjective to objectivity; and it seems to me that the transitional object (piece of blanket, etc) is what we see of this journey of progress towards experiencing."The mother is the most important person in a baby’s life; it is her that assists the transition from the intrapersonal reality to the external world; but, as Winnicott suggests success is ensured only when the mother adapts herself and becomes devoted to the needs of the baby.
Dr. Winnicott is something of a legend in his field, so I've wanted for some time to read him.
Unfortunately, his books rarely turn up used, and they've tended to go in and out of print, so they have been pricey when available.
That said, I just checked Amazon and found that most of his work is in print again, and available in trade paperback.Now for the skewed nature of my three-star review.
Winnicott was, I was surprised to see, basically a Freudian.
Because I know some of the language and the concepts that language represents in Freud's work, I was able to understand some of this book.
"The searching can come only from desultory formless functioning, or perhaps from rudimentary playing, as if in a neutral zone. . . . This if reflected back, but only if reflected back, becomes part of the organized individual personality, and eventually this in summation makes the individual to be, to be found."A series of excursions building on the idea of the transitional area, between being and doing, female and male, subject and object, projection and perception, unity and separation. The paradox that makes life feel real.
Çok akıcı olmayan bir dile sahip olsa da geçiş nesnesi kavramı ile derinden etkiledi. Oyun yoluyla terapötik iletişimin nasıl kurulabileceği ile ilgili çok besleyici bilgiler sunan bir kitap. Aynı zamanda Francis Bacon'un resimleri ile açıklayıp zenginleştirdiği kısımlar çok dikkat çekici idi. Kesinlikle okunmalı!
An excellent book for getting an idea of such concepts as transitional objects, transitional phenomena (and how they lead to the development of a cultural sense), and the importance of the environment in the therapeutic setting.
Phenomenal.
By the time we become parents, we have forgotten the importance and meaning of playing. Here is a book that helps you remember the value and opportunities playing provides our children.
DWW also offers some excellent insights from his therapeutic work, the fact that the therapist should let the client arrive at interpretations by himself/herself rather than rushing to them as part of the desire to prove how good the therapist is.
Another interesting insight was the resistance of the patient to ending therapy out of the fear that comes with the liberty to choose and be free.
The patient's predilection to structure in his/her discourse seems to be a manifestation of the resistance to therapy, only when the patient let's go of the structure and starts playing with the therapy some progress can be registered.
I should try to figure out why I am not into the genre of psychology-academic-writing even when they attempt to formulate theoretical statements/observations....Basically the book plays with the idea of playing and argues it creates a third space in which individuals/infants is able to develop cognitive association and dissociation simultaneously.
In the social theory side, it tries to work on the arena of "cultural experiences" opened up by Freud, although as a psychiatrist rather than social theorist.
(Interesting anecdote: psychiatrists are constantly asked by their clients "what is life" and they could cure their clients without knowing anything what on earth that actually keeps their client living up-spirited.
Thus this leads Winnicott the psychiatrist to ponder over questions of humanity in society more generally.)
"The patient posed the question: 'When I am walking up on that pink cloud, is that my imagination en
This was assigned reading at Union Theological Seminary, but I don't recall if I read it for Dr. Bell's course in Development Psychology or for a course I took with Robert Neale, a professor who had published in the field of the psychology of play. In any case, it didn't make very much of an impression on me, my interest in children having been something which only came into play much later in life.
Some thoughtful stuff both about the analytic attitude and how relationships inform who we are and how we grow. Additionally, I enjoyed the chapter on cultural experiences. While I believe Winnicott means cultural experiences in terms of the art, it's interesting to think of culture in terms of race, class, gender etc. as a place of play and a place that involves the in-between space necessary for cultural exploration.
