https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36030.The_Occult
As a Christian, I was so afraid to even touch a book like this.
But I knew who Colin Wilson was and enjoyed his intriguing style.
I read the Occult and could not put it down.
It is a really excellent book and it shows you what the human psyche is capable of, which brings to mind books of Tony Buzan who wrote the BBC use your mind series.
You will not sin if you pick up such a book and plunge into it and see what the word "OCCULT" really means, apart from the phobia and hysteria that is attached to it in conservative Christian circles.
أتفهم تماماً ما قد يجلبه هذا الكتاب على صاحبه من لعنات مغرقة بالإتهام بالجهل والدجل والخرافات ولربما يكون اللوم هنا على ولسون الذي بدا يائساً في إيجاد تفسير ما لكل هذا من نظريات لم تثبت صحتها وأقاويل غير محققة بل وحتى إدعاءات لا صحة فيها كإدعائه بأن أصل اليرقات في جبن كازو مازو من الهواء رغم الحقيقة العلمية بأنها من ذباب الجبن !أتفق تمام الإتفاق مع السيد ولسون بأنه لطالما كان هناك صراع عنيف بين الروح والمادة في هذا العالم..
لكن، أخشى أن السيد ولسون قد ذهب بعيداً جداً في محاولته العقلانية واللاعقلانية لتفسير الروحانيات بما هو مادي وما هو لا مادي.لفتني فيما يخص الملكة "س" أنها لربما تلك التي تتجسد بالنقطة "ألف" التي تحدث عنها بورخس قديماً وحديثاً باولو كويلهو الذي نشر بالفعل رواية تحمل الاسم "ألف".
Wilson, perhaps to his credit, does not try to simulate academic historical methodologies, but rather lets his poetic soul wander as it will, looking for connections between past-life-experiences, shady secret societies, and ancient systems of divination.
Where his narrative falls down for me is his “hypothesis” of “Faculty X,” which is the mysterious “something” that connects all of these threads, and which he insists that humanity “must” understand for its growth and survival.
What keeps it interesting is Wilson’s imagination and prose, which takes fragmentary information and turns it into a narrative of human potential.
Looked at as a poetical project, similar to his mentor Robert Graves’s writings.
This is not one of Wilson's better books. Given the topic, it should be hard to miss and, indeed, the text contains many juicy anecdotes and outrageous tales. What is lacking is a thesis or a canon of judgment whereby what is to be taken seriously, in the author's opinion, is distinguished from what is merely silly or pretentious. Instead, one is fed a not very nutritious stew of this and that.
I read this before I knew better. While the writing is good and the subject matter is entertaining, I discovered later that the book contains several factual errors and what seems to be deliberate misinformation.

يدعوك للتفكير في اشياء كثيرة ، كالسحر مثلاً و الحواس النادرة للانسان .
Mostly a decent introduction to the subject, but the book suffers from Wilson's acceptance of tall tales from long ago as fact. He doesn't question that certain people were able to levitate. Also, his faculty X hypothesis is a bit naive. He doesn't need to invoke the supernatural to explain things, and despite what he claimed, the science of the day didn't support him. There were positive outcomes in some ESP studies, but they have since been refuted or found unrepeatable. There may be something to his theory, but it's not scientifically parsimonious.
Wilson builds a marvelous history -- and then ruins it with an idiotic final section.
He was a valued friend and anything he wrote is worth reading. Honest, well thought out, balanced, and open minded
Even though here and there admitting that there are lots of charlatans in the mystical/paranormal fields, and even though here and there admitting the absurdity of some things he cites as undisputable facts, the definitive picture one should have of Wilson by the end of this book is of an entirely credulous man, a man who will likely believe ANYTHING he's told- provided it fits his own "Faculty X" theory.
A more accurate name might be; "A ridiculous theory based on an unquestioning and incredibly naive consideration of the History of the Occult".
A typical paragraph in this book takes the form of;"Tom was able to communicate with the leader of the great race of flying ape-dogs on the planet Zime.
He used lots of interesting sources and I got loads of ideas for other books to read from this one.
I read the book more than 40 years after it was written and all of his predictions are even more ridiculous now than they would have been when this was published.
Wilson’s overview of the extraordinary powers of human beings is ripe with interesting, well-told stories but short on the argumentation that ties his underpinning theoretical framework together.
His basic argument is that humans possess abilities beyond our normal understandings of consciousness that are undeveloped because we need to be hyper-focused in the contemporary age.
Read Wilson’s work as a diary of interesting and unusual stories from the human past, not as a well-constructed philosophical argument about the nature of reality and human ability, and you’ll get from this work what it has to offer.
Colin Wilson es más conocido en el mundo anglo sajón, pero por una extraña circunstancia, llegué a él por The Outsider, obra de tono autobiográfico el cual aún no he leído...
buscándolo me topé con The Occult, editado en español por la editoriual Alfaomega.
Cuento todo esto por mera necesidad de empatia: el autor me fascina.
Lo Oculto es una historia de la magia, de la brujeria y de los brujos y hechiceros reales.
Creo en la magia, pero por supuesto no soy un fan duro.
An excellent starting point if you are curious about the paranormal, sixth senses, strange and wonderful or terrifying things that modern science doesn't explain.
He ends up admitting there are true "miracles," things that were irrefutably witnessed and investigated at the time.
Like the saint who was canonized because he could fly.
Bunch of Bishops witnessed it and checked for wires and such and finally concluded it was a true miracle.When you finish the book, you will have a much better idea of what kinds of things are considered paranormal, which are most likely fakes and which have a chance of being real.
Wilson says that humanity has an ability called "Faculty X". According to Wilson, Faculty X is our ability to perceive a greater, deeper reality through intuition and ritual. The historical pursuit of this is the "occult". He does an extensive, thorough job of tracing this line of thinking from prehistorical nomadic tribes to the present. Wilson is open-minded yet appropriately skeptical and nicely navigates the paradoxical waters of consciousness on the fringe. The most interesting part for me was the biographical analysis of key players in occult history such as John Dee, Aleister Crowley, blavatsky, Gurdjieff, and many others.
This is just fun. But I guess also interesting if you pay attention to the gender/sex stuff going on. Not sure it really convinced me of anything, but maybe opened my eyes to possibility and a long history of the occult.
A fascinating tour de force of the many subjects of the occult. The research and language used is of such a high standard it prompts creativity. If you are new to the subject or simply wish to learn more than I highly recommend reading.
Faculty X righty-ho! I love this book. It's a wide-randing survey of the western occult tradition and a suitably cranky contribution to that tradition in its own right. Great stuff, clearly written in that style just manages to sit a step or two above mediocre, take with lots of pinches of salt.
Read it since 3 years or more . Nice study , to be followed and pushes to search to know more . Wilson's Mental Books are of an important addition for the humanity .
Fanfreakin'tastic!For anyone even remotely interested in the occult, this is the most entertaining history you will ever read.
أفضل ما كتبه كولن ولسون حسب رأيي..الكتاب مفيد وممتع في آن
We have more powers than we know but we are so wrapped up day to day triviality that we are not connected with our occult powers (Faculty X) and that is why it still remains so mysterious.From the introduction:"Civilization cannot evolve further until 'the occult' is taken for granted on the same level as atomic energy.
I mean that we have to learn to expand inward until we have somehow re-established the sense of huaca, until we have recreated the feeling of 'unseen forces' that was common to primitive man.
There are aspects of the so-called supernatural that we have got to learn to take for granted, to live with them as easily as our ancestors did.
Doveva essere un lavoro molto più complesso di così, sulla storia dell'occulto (e della facoltà X), ma traspare in ciascun argomento la difficoltà di trovare un filo comune e una teoria che li possa collegare assieme.
Divertenti i commenti sull'autosoffocamento erotico, argomento ancora non molto noto al grande pubblico e forse poco percorso in psicologia.
In linea generale comunque trovo molto più interessante l'argomento generale, in cui si parla dell'evoluzione della civiltà umana con i suoi rapidi salti di qualità che tenta di spiegarne le motivazione dove la storia invece non fornisce alcun perché ma si limita a riportare i fatti, invece delle vite dei protagonisti dell'occulto nel corso dei secoli.
A detailed history on just about everything occult. Colin Wilson certainly conducted a great deal of research for this book, and I must say that this is noticed and appreciated. I am somewhat disappointed in myself for taking so long to getting around to finish this book, but I found that the wait was worth the rewarding histories presented in this book.
It's All About Faculty X . . .Very entertaining and informative read about the history of the occult. Colin Wilson is thorough and erudite as usual. There is plenty to ponder in this fun volume, whether you are a skeptic or a believer in human powers beyond our current understanding.
Uno sforzo notevole per integrare nell’esperienza umana tutti quei fenomeni genericamente chiamati soprannaturali, elaborando una teoria della coscienza complessa e interessante. La traduzione italiana è oscena, purtroppo!
Great book; interesting history.
Very disappointing compared to The Outsider and I say that even as a fan of esoteric subjects.
Wilson's study of the occult is fascinating and exhaustive, and the theories and conclusions he hints at are an intriguing suggestion towards the evolution of human beings.
