https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9010.I_Hope_They_Serve_Beer_in_Hell
"My name is Tucker Max and I'm an asshole.." Mate, your name is "Tucker" and you attended law school, so the second half of that sentence seems redundant to me.The humor here seems to be the continuation of a long line of misogynist, sometimes crypto-racist, mostly Caucasian males: Andrew 'Dice' Clay, Howard Stern, Morton Downey Jr., "Animal House" (while funny, did spotlight frat-boy antics), Frank Zappa's more misogynist moments (think "Dinah-Moe-Hum" and "Jewish Princess") and on and on.
He seems to be a curious mutation, though--the upper-class mook..he's still a knuckle-dragger, but he's read a few books, instead of treating them like Kryptonite.He "disregards social norms"...by drinking alcohol, a legal drug--usually in bars or restaurants, where it's legally acceptable to do so.
This book makes me embarrassed to be a man. The fact that it has sold 400,000 copies makes embarrassed to be a reader. That it's justified as bathroom reading makes me embarrassed to own a toilet. To folks who happen to like it: hey, to each his own. My opinions are worth both sides of the two-ply they're printed on and nothing more. But as wussy as the words are, the whole premise---I'm an obnoxious alco-fuckaholic, but I know it, so the joke's not on me---lacks two things I'm sorta fond of: compassion and maturity.
i think it was fortuitous that i started reading it the day i went to the leonard cohen concert - it made for some pretty magical comparisons.
leonard cohen is in his seventies and i'd still fuck him first, just for his classiness.
what makes me blush is the number of times he says "i am so funny" or "my friends say i am hilarious", or even the more generous "my friends are so hilarious".
and i have been that drunk before, and i know how funny it seems at the time, but surely one has better comedic judgment when sober and reviewing the notes...greg says people like tucker max who find david sedaris "too cerebral".
Dear Satan,I humbly request that you serve Tucker Max plenty of beer once he joins you in Hell. However, please first insert a glass rod into his urethra and then break it in several places. Very best,Mark
Most negative reviews of this book are from people who balk at this guy's lifestyle (that being, he's an asshole, an alcohlic, and fucks lots of girls).
As someone who is debatably at least one of those things, and probably 2, I don't really give a shit about his lifestyle.
Alcoholics are pretty interesting, or at least have interesting stories.
I don't understand how someone who managed to publish more than one book based off his fucking BLOG couldn't find a decent editor.
Other than that, the stories didn't shock me and it was pretty boring.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hey, do you guys know about the website PicMonkey? I always use it to crop/auto adjust my photos, but I had no idea it offered up this awesome feature . . .  Ha!!! I’m Kathy Bates in American Horror Story Freakshow ! (In case you were wondering, this review is brought to you by . . . BEEEEEEEEER.)Mitchell got to pick our latest buddy read, but I can really only fault myself since I was the one who purchased I Hope They Serve Beer In He
My personal stance is: If I choose to read something that I KNOW is intended to be offensive, the one thing I don’t allow myself to do is complain about being offended.
Unfortunately, it was the only giggle to be had in a SEVENTEEN page story.With regard to some girls trying to talk them out of going to a strip club:
Since Tucker Max is a guy who isn’t particularly attractive, “dresses up” for going out by wearing white Hanes undershirts, and gives zero shits about ever NOT partying ‘til he pukes, I assume his reality should probably be divided by three yet again (if for nothing but the simple fact that projectile vomiting (or diarrhea, as the case may be)/passing out/uncooperative whiskey dick = no hook-up).
This book, uh, shouldn't be called a book.
I Hope The Serve Beer In Hell is essentially a book-length Maxim article/boasting session at the bar.
Imagery as hackneyed as "She look like she got hit in the face with a frying pan" may work after eight beers at 2AM on Sunday morning, but I wasn't reading the book then.
My friend Dan lent me his copy, and he bought it for a buck at a thrift store.Warning: If you're even slightly squeamish about sexist language and the portrayal of some women as stupid and desperate, run away.
Run away!
The first story I read was the Tucker tries b*tt sex one.
It seems pretty obvious that he decided early on to "never let the truth get in the way of a good story." At that point I switched gears and realized the true entertainment value; laughing at Tucker's misplaced ego, lame debacles and feeble attempts at writing.
Tucker et al flake out, embarrass themselves, explode body fluids, and the outcome is lame.
Also make sure you get Brett Tate's hilarious photo-documentary about insane wealthy gangsters living the dream; High Heels and Dirty Deals - Globetrotting Tales of Debauchery from a Binge-drinking Nymphomaniac
This book is disgusting!
It is literally the worst book I've ever read.
And yet I have never, ever, ever laughed so hard and so loud at the written word.
This book appalled me but I couldn't.
stop.
reading!
Tucker Max has some kind of writing style, it's almost Gonzo.
It's like sitting next to some drunk, ex reality-show star in an Ed Hardy t-shirt as he recounts his shallow, pathetic existence.
And for that I give it 3 stars, it's almost an anthropological study of douchebaggery.
(Is that a word?) AND it is one fricking entertaining ride!
'tis the season...13 TALES OF TERROR: BOOK 5my carefully considered thoughts on Tucker Max...
I received it as a gift from a co-worker who scanned the back cover and thought it might make for an amusing read on the train ride into work.
The most amusing thing about the book, however, was that a supposed Ivy League graduate thought it a wise literary maneuver to forego employing an editor.
The author lacks even the most basic grasp on elementary English grammar; he changes tense constantly within the same story, and at times leaves out entire words begging the reader to ask himself "am I reading this right?" as he idles over the same phrase for a good half minute trying to make sense of what's there.
All I can say is I was riding on a quiet train back to Philadelphia, sitting next to a nice quiet man who was quietly reading a book and highlighting passages.
My favorite bit:Girl: “I’m hoping to get my masters in psych after I finish my BA”SlingBlade “It takes someone very smart to get a psych degree.”Girl “I’m smart.”SlingBlade “The smartest thing to ever come out of your mouth is a penis”Girl “I’m NOT STUPID”SlingBlade “IT STOPS TALKING TO ITS INTELLECTUAL SUPERIOR OR IT GETS THE HOSE!”Warms my cynical, sarcastic little heart…To all of the women out there who find themselves repeatedly attracted to this type of guy; the smooth guy with all the right lines who manages to get you into bed before you’ve even had an actual conversation...
Having read his book, I think Tucker Max is a douche bag.
But Tucker Max clearly has his own ideas of what a douche bag is and spends ample time examining so in the book.
Add that to the list of why he is the embodiment of the douche bags he claims to despise so much.I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell is at best an interesting anthropological contemplation of the decadence of modern white male privilege and at worst as bad as having to read someone’s diary or listen to them recall their dreams.
This little prick recalls his "true life" biography of fratty, immature romps around town being a dickhead to fat girls and having sex with everyone in every way.
I read it because a friend recommended I see what life is like for the other side.
I feel like the principal's diatribe in Billy Madison fits."What you've just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever heard.
At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought.
I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul."
As a chick I am ashamed to say I really enjoyed this book because he just takes advantage of women in such a terrible way but its also kinda hard to feel bad for the women because....well I don't really know any woman that would let things go as far as some of these woman do!!! Its a moronic walk through a jerk womanizer's life with his friends.
A truly inspiring operating manual for achieving the most fulfillment in life. It ranks up there with the works of Kahlil Gibran and Richard Bach. This should be required reading in high school and for citizenship tests for new immigrants. It is the Bible and spiritual tome for the American Way, offering timeless insights into the human condition.
My proclaiming to everyone on his website, on the dust jacket of his book that he is an asshole, he doesn't have to take accountability for anything.
Because, hey, I told you I was an asshole, right?
That doesn't make me like the book any better, though.Admittedly, I loved the title and I thought I was buying a smart, witty, off-color book written by a guy whose irreverant rants on life would be hilarious.
If you've ever been to a frat party and heard some drunk guy talking about his sordid, unbelievable conquests, you've already heard 75% of this book.

A 3.6 overall rating? Are you kidding? Tucker is abhorrent and while I don't mind reading about abhorrence, it would be excusable if this book were even slightly well-written. Which it's not. The funniest parts of the book are the ones in which Max claims to be a writer, working to perfect his craft. That, my friends, is the joke. Don't be had. Just put it back on the store shelves and move along.
Let me preface this review with the following:(1) I have only read the first 41 pages of this book (and intend to read no further);(2) I purchased this book without performing any preliminary research (the title just seemed funny);(3) I had a seriously bad date this weekend.OK, here I go: Honestly, Tucker Max should be commended for his profound ability to memorialize life as it is perceived by a beer-drinking, ass-getting, womanizing, I'm-entitled-to-be-a-dick-so-deal-with-it frat boy.
Thank you, Max, for the raw, funny opportunity to sneak a glimpse into the thoughts of a true asshole, and I hope your future encounters with individuals such as "Elephant Legs", "Miss Chokesondick" (in her early stages), and ketchup-stained rednecks are frequent.
There was a guy in college we called “Nast” and now I feel bad… Tucker Max is much more deserving of the title than that poor guy!This book definitely had some downright hysterical parts but by the end it was a little “much” for me.
For example: “I’ll have to f*** you from behind so I don’t have to look at your face.” And that was fine with this chick!
He’s not that good looking.)My other beef is that many of Tucker Max’s friends were FAR funnier than Tucker Max. I love, love, loved the hapless SlingBlade, the man with zero social skills and was sad to not find him anywhere in the second half of the book.
Look, this guy obviously has narcissistic personality disorder.
(Though being a narcissist, he would never admit or think this.) He calls himself an asshole but it goes deeper than that.This book is supposed to be funny, but it's just kind've sad.
You meet one entitled, spoiled frat boy you've met them all.The only reason I read this is that my friend takes forever to get ready, and this is one of the only books he had.
I've been picking through it for a few months while he was in the shower or whatever.As an aside, the guy that gave it to him for a gift is one of the biggest jerks I've ever met.
Well, where to start?This book is genuinely a great bathroom read: short stories, easy to pick up and put down without hesitation.....but Tucker Max, although a great story-teller, is really not too adept with his words.
This kid had obviously just made a momentous discovery: If memory serves me correctly, I believe the word was "Concur", because he must have used it 7 or 8 times in his short visit to my doorstep.
Tucker Max is a total idiot, a complete asshole, and not someone I would like to hang out with often.
I also can't help but pity the author, while his stories are frat boy debauchery and substance abuse that are so regailed in today's society that this book actually made the New York Times Bestseller list (I did not know about the subject matter, someone, a male, told me to read it) it clearly stems from deep seated issues that are only getting worse as he ages.
Also, as another reviewer stated, I would save your money because almost the entire book is on the author's website.
I must admit that it was a funny book at least for 30 to 40 pages.
Then all that random sex, projectile vomiting, and scatology just got boring.I guess I'm supposed to say what the author and every reviewer of this book has already said: Tucker Max is an asshole, What he isn't is even more obvious.
There are writers who are capable of exploring their assholeness.
I laugh at fart jokes too and this book is no more than one long fart joke.There is one exception to this.
Tucker's friend Slingblade makes the book come alive at times.
But as I said, no writers at home.
The emotional damage he’s caused countless women is unforgiveable.
Most educated people will HATE it, I can’t imagine a single person I’m hooked up with on this site enjoying it.
You have to be able to separate yourself from humanity and all things that are good to enjoy this book.
Sadly this is the quickest I’ve ever gotten through a book and I looked forward to each chapter like a little girl on Christmas morning.
Even if you need to feel like a little girl on Christmas morning, do NOT read this, I don’t want to be forever shunned by the group.
I picked this book up on a buy 2 get, 1 free table at Borders because I thought the title was interesting and I had already picked out my 2 so I was looking for my "1 free" book.
At first it was like watching a car accident that you just couldn't look away from, but eventually the stories of Tucker and his friends' debauchery is just too much.
This was like reading about a guy banging his head against a wall and hoping the wall bitch slaps him in return.
Easily the worst person ever in existence. I can't decide if I'd be happier if one of his "conquests" returned to castrate him or if he contracted a cocktail of STIs that would result in the shriveling and subsequent loss of his man parts. Either way he'd be eliminated from the gene pool and humanity could dodge that bullet.Also, if there were a way to rate this book in negative quantities of stars, it would have the maximum.
Tucker Max is a gigantic douchebag, yet he's strangely un-self-aware for a guy who makes his living writing outrageous lies true stories of his drunken debauchery.
However, Tucker Max pushes it to the limits of believability, and exacerbates the incredulousness of the stories by maintaining on numerous occasions that his stories are 100% true and that he is a lot of things, but most definitely not a liar.
In defense of Tucker however, he's not a user, he's simply knowledgeable about how to take what is already being offered.Without spoiling this work of contemporary shock-art, I'll simply say that this book is a collection of short stories from Tucker Max's college years beginning in his undergrad at the U of Chicago and spanning through his debauchery as a Duke Law Student.
