https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125553.Welcome_to_Dead_House
Goosebumpy alright! This is the first book of the original book series of “Goosebumps” CREEPY GOOD BOOK Obviously I wasn’t expecting a scary bloody tale, since this is Goosebumps, not H.P. Lovecraft, but I am glad to say that the book is quite well written, with an engaging narrative and a kinda of “cliffhanger” or “shocking last line” on each chapter making you to keep reading.I found ingenious that the main character (and narrator of the story) is a teenage girl, due this is the first book of
If our heroes wouldn’t go there, we wouldn’t have a story to read, right?Meet The Benson Family: Dad, Mom, Amanda (the main character) (12 years old) and Josh (11 years old) along with their dog Petey (I guess they were huge fans of The Little Rascals).They got a letter explaining that certain distant relative (that they never heard before (aaaha!) died and he left them his old house as inheritance.Of course, the house is on Dark Falls, and you can bet that the dang house has two Windows at front just like the Amityville House!!!But who cares?
Alright ladies and gentlemen,The first book of the fabled classic Goosebumps.The house is a freebie. Is haunted.The entire town is, as well. Two siblings discover that fears do come true.Very well drawn up from the master of scare Mr. Stine.The story bears a classic uniqueness of Stine but a cliffhanger ending is his trademark.Turning back my high-school library years, it made my bone chill, yet again.Take all the stars!
From graphic descriptions of a family gnawing on moldy plates of human bones to a small town conspiring to murder the new family that has just moved into the creepiest house on the block, Welcome to Dead House easily could work as a standalone novel despite originally being marketed for children under the iconic and popular Goosebumps series.
That being said, I think something was really lost when he did this, because Welcome to Dead House was one of the only books I can remember reading as a kid that was classified as horror but dealt with tragedy, family dysfunction and the overwhelming emotions and common fears associated with moving.
My siblings and I spent a lot of time there in the summers because my mother was the manager of a convenient store right across the street from the library.
While the neighborhood kids all played outside on the playground or at summer recreation or spent their day running under the hose, I could be found with my nose in a book.
But, what I remember most is sitting under a tree, behind the garage, on my aunt’s fence, or holed up in the little tube at the playground reading as fast as my eyes would let me.
Welcome to Dead House offers a satisfying blend of camp and creepiness: I started up the stairs and then stopped.
And the book hints at the comedic slant R.L. Stine later brought to the series: "Where is everyone?" I asked, looking up and down the empty street.
I guess you could say that." Welcome to Dead House may not be an extraordinary read for adults, but as a child this book, and the other books in the series, were irresistible and incontrovertibly spooky.
They made reading fun and the act of buying a new book something to look forward to with great anticipation.
Fun little read. It reminded me of that Tales From the Crypt TV show I used to love as a kid. Yep, full on nostalgia hit! Plus bonus points for the cool cover. And yeah, I know that should't matter, but c'mon! Who doesn't love a nice cover?!
He hates to read anything that isn't a comic book, or at the very least, in graphic novel format.
Since he loves all things creepy, I thought that this would be a great way to finally get the kid to read something with actual chapters!
The chapter are short (two or three pages at the most), and yet packed with super-creepy stuff.
Nothing too graphic or gory, but still scary enough to keep a kid like mine interested.
I think this book is a great introduction into the horror/paranormal genre for older children.I think this would probably be suitable for ages 10 and up.
Anyway, so I read a lot of these books as a kid, and they were fun, light, nominally scary stories that were easily accessible.
Reading this now, it's even more clear that these are innocent books geared towards kids who like to be scared but don't want to risk too much.
I mean, for one, if a mysterious uncle left me a house that is 4 hours away, in a town I'd never heard of, I think I'd need to do a little bit more research than a single, hectic, sullen-tween-dragging walk-through.
Τιμή κ δόξα στην ελληνική εφορία που μου επέτρεψε σήμερα το πρωί να το διαβάσω ολόκληρο!! Και την επιστροφή μου την πήρα και την περιπετειούλα μου απόλαυσα κ καλό καφέ ήπια.. όλα καλά!Τουλάχιστον ήμουν σε καλύτερη μοίρα από τα παιδιά της περιπέτειας (αν κ εφορία κ σπίτι των νεκρών έναν παράξενο συνειρμό τον κάνει...)
“We killed someone who was already dead.” There, that one sentence just about sums up how ridiculous the concept of this book is.I remember the time when I first started reading, which was some four years ago. Our school library was so poorly stocked. The only books it held were the many different editions of classic books and THESE. Goosebumps books. I used to read them and love them then, but now, I don’t even want to think I used to love them once. The Plot Amanda and Josh are not at all ha
There, that one sentence just about sums up how ridiculous the concept of this book is.I remember the time when I first started reading, which was some four years ago.
Amanda and Josh are not at all happy with their new house at Dark Falls.
One extraordinarily creepy night, they find that all those friends they made, are already dead.
And they want Josh and Amanda dead too..
Then Dad said, “No, I don’t have time to look now.
✔* Dead people afraid of light?
And, dead people living in a town?
If they’re already dead, what happens when they ‘melt away’?
#1 "It will just kill you."The old house that Amanda and Josh just moved into with their parents is not haunted... Or is it? Things get crazy in this ghostly tale of the ominous haunted house.As the first book in the series of the Goosebumps franchise, while not my favorite, I'd have to say it's still one of the great ones.
4 STARS!Read the original audio book from the 90s on YouTube. It was just as awesome and spooky as I remember it. :)
There are no streetlamps.It turns out that (view spoiler)[ the town is inhabited by the living dead.
(hide spoiler)]R.L. Stine did a great service to kids everywhere when he created a series of horror books for children.
Also, he did children a great service by opening up the horror book market to them.
I always wanted someone to go back and re-write each of the original Goosebumps books in an adult form.
(hide spoiler)] These are great horror tropes, and it's fun to introduce them to kids so early.
So like I said, now we’re at this creepy old house covered in shade trees (along with the rest of the neighborhood) and little brother Josh decides that he’d rather stay outside with Petey, the family’s pet terrier, who for some reason can’t stand to be around anyone in the entire neighborhood.
Petey runs away, Josh follows, family freaks out, they all wind up in the cemetery.
A few days pass, the family gets settled in, Amanda’s been seeing children upstairs but lets everyone talk her into believing that she’s just seeing things.
Josh has been having nightmares and doesn’t want to talk about it.
3.5I feel slightly jipped because it was originally published in 1992 but there were years in the story in here of later, that was obviously changed from the original publishing and it makes me wonder what else, if anything, they might have changed :(. I guess I should have been picky about trying to get first editions after all, dang it. I didn't know they changed things..sorry about the bitterness.Otherwise it was a nice creepy read. Slightly (but not entirely) predictable. Kind of lackluster ending (or maybe that's just me) but still enjoyed it.
Το σπίτι των νεκρών,το πρώτο βιβλίο της παιδικής σειράς τρόμου “Ανατριχίλες”,είναι κατάλληλο για παιδιά που αγαπούν τα μικρά,ευκολοδιάβαστα βιβλία περιπέτειας και μυστηρίου.
Το σπίτι των νεκρών κατορθώνει,δίχως να κουράζει και να δυσκολεύει τα παιδιά, να ισορροπήσει τις σκηνές τρόμου με πιο χαλαρές εικόνες καθημερινότητας,όπως η σχέση μεταξύ των αδερφών που άλλοτε καταλήγει σε διαμάχες κι άλλοτε σε αμοιβαία υποστήριξη και συνεργασία.Είναι ένα εξαιρετικό βιβλίο για παιδιά,και κατά τη γνώμη μου,μια ευχάριστη ανάγνωση για ενήλικες,που σίγουρα δε θα τρομάξουν το ίδιο,αλλά θα αναζωογονηθούν μέσα από τη ζωντάνια και την αυθεντικότητα της παιδικής περιέργειας.
It spooked me alright but it wasn't mind-numbingly clever or horrifying. I guess for a 147 page book it was okay. I'm glad I found this series though because the books are short and I need to read more of this genre.
وعودة مرة آخري مع صرخة الرعب ولكن هذه المرة مع قصة قرأتها سابقاً .. أعتقد أني قرأتها في المرحلة الأبتدائية أو أول الأعدادية .. وأربعة نجوم هو تقييمي وقتها للرواية .. لو قيمتها علي قرائتي الثانية ستكون حوالي نجمتين أو نجمتين ونصف .. ولكن للإنصاف ما زال تسارع الأحداث المُفاجئ الذي يتمز به الكاتب يُبهرني حتي في سني الحالي .. ونهاية الرواية ذكرتني بأن الكاتب متخصص في النهايات الغريبة والغير متوقعة تماماًَ .. في النهاية ، قراءة مُفعمة بالنوستالجيا .. خفيفة ومشوقة .. لا بأس بها كل شهر وكل عدد جديد .
It’s October so naturally I’ve been immersing myself in all things scary and one night I was reminiscing about where my love of horror began and I started thinking about revisiting Goosebumps.
Welcome to Dead House is the very first in the original Goosebumps series (I don’t care what Amazon says trying to list this as #13 and Night of the Living Dummy as #1).
While it didn’t exactly give me goosebumps because I’ve certainly read far scarier at this point in my life, it still managed to put a smile on my face taking that walk down memory lane and seeing once again what I loved so much about these when I was a kid.
Reading Welcome To Dead House was like a blast from my youth past.
The way Stine foreshadows the fact that everyone in the town is dead (the shaded areas, they always wear dark clothes, they cower in the sunlight...etc), is great.
Its like as you are reading the stories he gives you little clues about the plotline, which I absolutely loved.
Welcome To Dead House is a good way to kick off this iconic series of spook stories for kids.
My nostalgia filter might be running a bit high when I rate it a solid five-star, but there are reasons to love it still.
It's aged a lot better than some of the series, as well.For one, this series, starting with Dead House, got so many kids into reading that wouldn't normally have.
These books were (and still are) the "In" thing for kids who love spooky stuff, or just kids who are looking for something new to read.For two, it's a good twist on the old haunted-house routine.
And it's not exactly a haunted house, it's a (view spoiler)[town inhabited by the undead (hide spoiler)], which is much more interesting anyway.
BANNED in USA & Canadian Libuaries
Welcome to Dead House was the first book in the Goosebumps book series.
I appreciated this a lot more because this was my first goosebumps book.
The story starts with Josh and Amanda moving with their parents into a relic of a house willed to them by their late uncle.
Amanda and Josh felt sad about their uncle and they are not too thrilled about the new house or town.
Amanda tries to give a chance on liking the new place but strange things start to happen.
And when their dog, Petey, goes missing, Josh and Amanda find out the town's bloody secret.
5 Words:I never was a fan.I never was a fan of Goosebumps... There was something about those stuck up, nasty, selfish brats that never appealed to me.And this first book is perhaps one of the worst. Josh is such a brat, such a spoiled little... Yeah, these little shits frustrate me so much. I can't even put them into words. Chav comes to mind.
Decent horror for kids. Read it back in the early 90s, growing up. Got quite caught up by the Goosebumps craze at the time. Don't know if I could read it now, though.
(view spoiler)[Firstly, great uncle whats-his-face up and dies, leaving Mr Benson with some big old house.
(hide spoiler)] and that really didn't bode well with me.Fourthly, at the very end of the story, the Benson's are high-tailing it out of dodge, when Amanda bumps into a new family who are about to move into the town of the freaking dead, yet she doesn't stop to say "oh, hey, don't stay here because the dead townsfolk plan to KILL YOU!" Nope, she just leaves them to their demise.
(hide spoiler)]Still, this was a fun little read!
Readers beware…Similar to many young boys, library visits in my youth consisted of hunting down and searching for the Goosebumps series!
Amanda and Josh move into a new neighborhood called Dark Falls with their parents.
Their house is old, creepy and possibly haunted after Amanda encounters a ghostly figure of a young boy in her bedroom soon after arriving.
However, the ghostly secrets of Dark Falls and its residents are soon uncovered…This book was very gripping as a young reader and genuinely scary!
I would strongly recommend the Goosebumps series to any young fan of fictional horror and mystery, they are definite classics!
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsAfter watching the movie Goosebumps I have decided to read this series.
This is very popular way back when I still in school and at that time this stories creeps the hell out of kids who reads them.
I remember I don't usually read this kind of genre in books before.
Now as I finished this one this particular book was not that scary but yeah it was kind of creepy and the way it was written would very much appeal to younger readers.
Goosebumps series was one classic book/s that everyone should at least read.
Three hundred fifty million of these books were sold, most of them in the nineties.
Welcome to Dead House was the first Goosebumps book published so it was a good start.
A sister and a brother (13 and 12) are moving to a new house that their dad inheritted from his uncle.
From the get go, something seems wrong with the house.
Well, things in the house are worse then they can imagine.
I give this easy-to-read, short book 4 starts.
The pace is good, characters are well developed, and the scary things are great but not too scary for 9-12-year olds.Enjoy!
And the chapter titles numbers are the same font – so as a reader it makes you keep turning those pages faster!Welcome to Dead House, published in 1992, is the first EVER in the Goosebumps series!
The book follows Amanda and Josh whose father’s Uncle just died and left them a house no one knew existed.
Thinking they are overthinking, Amanda and Josh start to make friends in the neighborhood.
I find the descriptive imagery that R.L. Stine uses to be the kind that forces the readers to think a little and also has the ability to place them in that exact scenario as if they, themselves, are inside the story.
