https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30937.The_Complete_Stories_of_Evelyn_Waugh
in which I took and read as an essential enticingly literary background.As an overview, we can see that inside the book, its full title is "The Complete Short Stories and Selected Drawings" having 25 stories with dates of composition, the first three extracted:The Balance: A Yarn of the Good Old Days of Broad Trousers and High Necked Jumpers (1925)A House of Gentlefolks (1927)The Manager of "The Kremlin" (1930); then followed by two subtitles: Juvenilia (6) and Oxford (7).Juvenilia (first three stories):The Curse of the Horse Race (1910)Fidon's Confetion (c.
But as that will surely not come to pass, I must say, that this volume is a great footnote, to the god of caustic disdain, to be read in bits and pieces – and again and again.
Of course, I had to reread the stories I had already read so long ago!For anyone who enjoys the taste of elegant prose laced with sparkling wit, "The Complete Short Stories of Evelyn Waugh" deserves a place that is both prominent and permanent in one's well-stocked storehouse of vintage literature – this coming from someone whose library does not particularly “like” short stories!
I love Evelyn Waugh's novels, I wallow in his satiric novels: "Scoop", "Vile Bodies", "A Handful of Dust" and in my search for more of the above, I came across this collection and what a lucky find!
He is sharp and stinging and hilarious!
I don't think I would ever want him as a relative or wish him as a father upon my worst enemy (quote Mr. Waugh: "My stories are more dear to me than my children.
If a child dies, I can just have another."), but his biting edge and insight to the frailties of human nature are so spot-on.
I do not tire of these stories.
Well - now I've finished -- better than I had expected, and a very wide range: from surprisingly poignant and sad to quite "out-there" (Love Among the Ruins is an amazing story!). Quite good and I recommend it.just trying this out - Waugh's work in this form isn't as well as the novella/novels - about 1/2 way through - I'm finding these wry and intelligent, gently pointing out foibles and the ridiculous in the upper-class's attitudes about all others - very nicely wrought and efficient, compact prose - no wasted words here
What can you say about Evelyn Waugh except, except....there are always going to be people who think he's a woman.Next on to "The Loved One."
it's interesting how novelists aren't historically successful with short stories. case in point.
It is a rather great start to a book and a shame in some ways to have come to an abrupt end.Another story that feels more like a work not completed is "Charles Ryder's School Days," perhaps an unpublished excerpt from Brideshead Revisited or a character study for the work.
But much like the people around, he finds very little meaning to his existence and longs for a return to prison, until love provides something that at least seems real."Basil Seal Rides Again" returns to the character of Basil, who figures prominently in the very first story of the collection and who also plays a role in many of Waugh's novels (alas not anything more than a mention in any of the novels that I've read).
with an archaeological brush, one can unearth the remnants of an ancestor of Hitchens .
This 1933 effort is a sly, light horrific-comical tale .
or would that be comical-horrific?
So good that Waugh could not leave well enough alone, treating the tale as the seed for his next novel, A Handful of Dust (1934).
I am old enough — my eyes are old enough, anyway — to prefer larger books, books like the hefty hardcover at hand.I wonder how long it will be before I finish the book, if ever I manage that feat.
I often treat story collections as if I were in no hurry, as if they were best suited for the occasional comfort of Methuselah.
"It seems to me sometimes that Nature, like a lazy author, will round off abruptly into a short story what she obviously intended to be the opening of a novel."So writes Evelyn Waugh at the start of part 4 of "A House of Gentlefolks", one of many short stories in this wonderful book that do just that, finishing the story but leaving the reader knowing there could be much much more.
I didn't love every story, but some I really really enjoyed and at the worst of it I found some to be quite tolerable.Overall I'd recommend this book to any who like short stories, who like history, who like studies in humanity, etc....
Of note are "The Man Who Liked Dickens" an alternative and darker ending to a Handful of Dust; the two stories comprising the unfinished novel Work Suspended (interesting because the main character of both is an author who has writers block, so I wonder if the unfinished novel is intensional); the sad "Bella Fleace Gives a Party"; the dark and comically twisted "Tactical Exercise"; and the cunning "Basil Seal Rides Again." I love that this collection includes stories that Waugh wrote in childhood and adolescence.
While I am loving Evelyn Waugh's short stories almost almost almost as much as Edith Wharton's (same initials - coincidence?), there is something to the despairing nature of them that hits me a little lower below the belt.
Perhaps it is the fact that it has been raining incessantly here in Boston, but after some of the stories I just set the book aside and stare into space for a couple of minutes before I go on.
Despair aside, I have been utterly immersed in Waugh's stories for the past few days and cannot tear myself away.
4.5 I enjoyed most of the stories. The school ones were probably my least favorite just because I don't understand the English school system, but that's not Waugh's fault. The juvenilia was okay, the Oxford stories better. The adult stories were the best, but with a few misses. I really enjoyed "Bella Fleace", "Winner Takes All", "Cruise", and the one about the dog (I'm blanking on the title). I also really enjoyed all the ones with married couples, just because he does them so amusingly. Great collection overall.
Most of the complete stories are brilliant, of course. It's amazing how well he mingled deep misery and hilarity: most of these pieces make you laugh while you're reading, then afterwards you feel extremely sad. I'm rating it only three stars simply because at least half of the book is unfinished work or juvenilia, and as a result it was a bit of a chore to finish.
Just finished reading a story that takes the piss out of Aleister Crowley. This is significant in that I thought Maugham was the only major author who hated Crowley (see "The Magician"), but apparently Waugh thought Mr. Crowley was a big, fat wanker, tosser, shmendrick, insert your own favorite word here. Mister Macabre was quite a figure of fun in his time. I'll bet Hemingway hated him, too.
I didn't read all of these short stories. As is evidence by how long this has been on my currently-reading list, it wasn't a page turner. I initially picked up this book because I wanted to read "The Man Who Loves Dickens", which I really liked. I only read one or two more. They were okay, but not my favorite.
Hmm I should have started with his novels. I didn't get a couple of the short stories as you needed to have read the novels to appreciate them. However there were a few stories in there that made me laugh out loud, my favourite being 'Cruise' which was a series of letters written by a 'young lady of leisure'. I also particularly enjoyed 'Mr Loveday's Little Outing' and 'Love Among the Ruins.'
Witty and at times wicked, Waugh's short stories are unforgettable in their power to depict the human mischief, folly and failures. The opening of each story is sharp and strong, and the stories progress with entertaining and comical details. Waugh is definitely one of my favorite authors of the short form.
Well written, enjoyable stories. Evocative without violence or too too much frivolity. Little twisted twists, and not strenuous. But, the thing is, though some stories were quite effective (and disturbing) it didn't grab me on the whole, and I won't soon be looking for more from this author - just OK on the whole.
I read "Mr. Loveday's Little Outing" when I need a lift or when I have had to grade too many bad student essays.
Oh my Evelyn
I do enjoy the humour... couldn't relate to the British schoolboy stuff. Do like his novels...
these little, brown anthologies are fancy-looking.
Evelyn Waugh remains one of my favorite authors. His stories are so funny, so bitter, and so sad.
Tremendously funny, very mean, as good a prose writer as the 20th century produced. It made me laugh awkwardly at bars.
Wodehouse with a heavy heart or Fitzgerald with a light one?
Slightly disillusioned yet light and fun.
Another one for the Modernist in me. Aptly described by the guy who reads to me in bed as "England's Fitzgerald," Waugh's short stories skip lightly to a usually grim end.
Just a little quick something for the break room - although the first one was kinda depressing. but I hear that hoity-toity accent in my head and it makes me giggle!
Read by Crawford Logan.Category:Drama
