https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/502118.The_Hunting_Gun

Così è stato, se vi pareNon il tema dell'amore illecito, neppure il tema dell'amore coniugale e filiale tradito, e neppure la lieve penna di Yasushi Inoue o Inoue Yasushi, o la particolare struttura di questo breve romanzo mi hanno colpito come quanto la sensibilità e l'interesse dell'autore nel trattare il tema della dicotomia tra ciò che si ritiene siano o pensino o sappiano gli altri e ciò che in realtà ma con molta approssimazione sono, pensano e sanno, e lo sbigottimento che consegue alla rivelazione (quando avviene) dello stato delle cose.
Ci si domanda come sia possibile non aver mai considerato le circostanze da un altro punto di vista, peccando quindi di ingenuità o di narcisismo.
I did like this part of her letter: "I had the impression that mother's own time had been moving through the house the moment I had left it to go to school.
How is he going to be less lonely when he must want to find some kind of himself to feel in their company?
I thought The Hunting Gun was special for making me feel it is important that somebody take a second look at Josuke and not know what they are going to see before they look.
(I hope I know how to read...) I thought it was special for making me feel me because I wanted to look at them.
Ci sono libri che leggo rapitoCi sono libri che leggo annoiatoE ci sono libri, come questo, che mi leggono.E mi lasciano dentrouna voglia di pioggia.
C’è anche in ciascuno di noi una misteriosa vocazione alla solitudine, subìta o voluta; una istintiva crudeltà sanguinaria, dolorosa per noi stessi e al contempo incurante delle ferite che può infliggere ad altri; un “fucile da caccia” che ci preme perennemente al fianco, “scavando nel nostro spirito solitario, nella nostra carne solitaria”, mentre procediamo in cerca di prede nella desolazione del “bianco alveo di un fiume”.Un libro straordinario, che mi è particolarmente caro.Un gioiello di perfezione stilistica e strutturale.
A little gem of a book. Intimate and beautifully written.
Καλογραμμένη δραματική νουβέλα, που μιλάει για τον παράνομο έρωτα και τις συνταρακτικές συνέπειες στη ζωή τριών γυναικών που με τον έναν ή τον άλλο τρόπο είχαν κάποιο ρόλο. Ουσιαστικά έχουμε τρία διαφορετικά γράμματα τριών διαφορετικών γυναικών, που βγάζουν στη φόρα τα συναισθήματά τους σχετικά με τον παράνομο αυτό έρωτα, συναισθήματα όπως είναι ο θυμός, η πίκρα, οι ενοχές... Είναι μια νουβέλα χαμηλών τόνων που δείχνει λιγάκι τα χρόνια της, όμως ασχολείται μ'ένα διαχρονικό θέμα και έχει τη δύναμη να περάσει κάποια μηνύματα στους αναγνώστες.
A questo punto iniziamo a leggere le parole di Misugi, ed è il corno, il cacciatore, a creare la storia, a segnare la melodia, a prendere spazio, a non essere più solo timbro di una sinfonia.Ad esso seguiranno le altre voci, nell'ouverture saranno i clarinetti e poi i violoncelli, nel romanzo saranno le lettere di tre donne che Misugi ha conosciuto ed amato.
I suoni, le parole, sono usati per il loro valore allusivo per ricreare un luogo archetipico in cui se non c'è comprensione si è cacciatori solitari, nella condizione umana più antica.Ed essendo un romanzo breve, poteva essere solo un'ouverture.
Dopo il titolo fuorviante,il racconto è affascinante:la scrittura lieve lieve…sembra panna, sembra neve…
Romanzo che inizia in sordina e va poco a poco dipanando, in un continuo crescendo, un intreccio sottile di solitudini, di offese e di verità negate, che finisce per chiudersi, come un cerchio perfetto, da dove era partito. Il tutto all’interno di un’architettura narrativa che è estremamente elegante, sobria e, talvolta, molto delicata.Mi è piaciuto parecchio e, forse avrei anche potuto arrivare alle quattro stellette. Ma debbo lamentare una certa “freddezza” di fondo. Non so come dire … è come se vi mancasse un po’ il soffio della vita vera.
I think I would reread it to redefine my appreciation and understanding.Employed by a technique used in ‘Rashomon’ the celebrated Japanese film in 1950, the mysterious love affair is viewed via the eyes of three women named Shoko, Midori and Saiko who have involved in the tragedy.
Verder schreef hij klassieke liefdesverhalen met sterke vrouwelijke protagonistes (zoals Het jachtgeweer), meer sociaal-politiek geëngageerde werken (zoals Stierensumo) en autobiografische werken, vooral over zijn kinderjaren of maar ook bijvoorbeeld een aangrijpend portret van zijn dementerende moeder.
Een bloedstollende scène waarin ze zich bedreigd voelt door Misugi die zijn jachtgeweer aan het poetsen is, is voor haar van doorslaggevend belang.
En meer dan tien jaar hebben wij ons in deze citadel verschanst, terwijl jij mij bedroog en ik jou (maar jij bent ermee begonnen).’ De derde brief, ten slotte, is van Saiko, Shoko’s moeder en nicht van Midori, geschreven vlak voor haar (zelfgekozen) dood.
Una poesia in cui si riconosce un uomo.Tre lettere indirizzate a quest'uomo da parte di tre donne che sono in relazione tra loro.Grande tensione narrativa in pochissime pagine.Parole chiave: "Amore, colpa e morte"Amletico dilemma: "Amare o essere amati" (Sembra che l'autore perori la tesi dell'impossibilità della coesistenza).Tre diversi abbandoni.Proprio bravo Yasushi Inoue!Proprio vero che non servono tante parole per essere efficaci.Quattro stelle abbondanti.
Wat een prachtige novelle, net een lang prozagedicht. Ik bleef almaar denken: wat een prachtige zin om te citeren. En aan het einde, dat ik in de bus las, moest ik zo zuchten omdat ik het mooi vond dat de buschauffeur me vroeg of alles wel in orde was.
An astonishingly emotional story of love and betrayal written in an almost cold prose, under which everything is full of emotions. Anger, resentment, guilt, love, bitterness, regret ... all this on 106 pages in the form of three letters of three women about one man (who recognizes himself in a poem about a hunter) that is troubled by the question of how well we know our loved ones.
The Hunting Gun is published by Pushkin Press in an attractive, small pocket sized format that makes for a fast read.The book consists mostly of a framing story and three letters, first by the daughter Shoko; the second by Aunt Misugi, the legitimate wife of the adulterer Misuki Josuke; and the last by Saiko, the adulteress, who dies at the beginning of the story.
The letters get progressively more interesting, until the one by Saiko is a poignant study in regret.I have always loved Inoue's work, and am gratified to se he was so good at the beginning of his career.
Romanzo sorprendente. Breve ma completo. Delicato, drammatico, a tratti crudele, gonfio di silenzi e significati esplosivi. Soave l'energia con cui viene offerto un caleidoscopio sull'amore femminile. Lascia con l'incompiutezza perfetta per meditare. O rileggere, in accordo con gli stati dell'animo.
The writing was good but I just couldn't identify with the characters (except the daughter). Maybe the subject matter was a big thing at the time, but to me it felt like a whole lot of self-inflicted grief and melodrama.
Αρκετα ιδιορρυθμο βιβλιο! Αρκετα μακρια απο τις δικες μας δυτικες αξιες. Σε ξενιζει αρκετα η πολιτισμικη διαφορα αναμεσα στην Ευρωπη και την Ασια .Παντως το προτεινω σε οσους θελουν να εισαχθουν στην Ιαπωνικη λογοτεχνία.
I enjoyed this brief but telling dip into love and infidelity, Japanese style. It's a short, clever and insightful look at how love can be betrayed and how betrayal should or shouldn't be handled. Understated, but free of pretension. Leaves lots unsaid, much like the Japanese language, but it's better that way. Worth the little time you need to read it.Download my starter library for free here - http://eepurl.com/bFkt0X - and receive my monthly newsletter with book recommendations galore for the Japanophile/crime fiction/English-as-a-foreign-language teacher in all of us.
Though less than perfectly done (who has ever done a perfect first novel?), it has a depth that shines through in the first couple of chapters, and peters out by the end.The story isn't about A Hunting Gun, really, despite the title.
The opening is written by a poet who writes a poem called The Hunting Gun, and the man who responds to him in writing because he recognizes himself in the poem.
The first two letters from the women portray depth by maintaining a semblance of mutual familiarity with shared experiences, and only slowly and hapharzardly expound the details of their complex relationship.
Οι εμπειρίες μου με την ιαπωνική λογοτεχνία ειναι περιορισμένες στον Μουρακάμι (ο οποίος ειναι βαθιά δυτικός) κ στον Καβαμπατα που διάβαζα συνέχεια πριν απο 2 δεκαετίες αλλα δεν θυμάμαι κ πολλάΤο ντεμπούτο του Ινοουε ειναι ενα έντονα συγκινησιακό κείμενο, αν κ σύντομο,κ οι 4 χαρακτηρες του ειναι αληθινά συμπαθείς κ με το δικό τους τροπο βασανισμένοι.
Μπορεί το θέμα να έχει εξερευνηθεί εκτενώς στην λογοτεχνία, αλλα οι ήρωες ειναι τοσο ανθρώπινοι που ειναι σχεδόν δίπλα σου και τίποτα άλλο δεν έχει σημασία.
Μου άρεσε παρά πολύ,σχεδόν κοκκινίζεις απ´την πολυπόθητη εξομολόγησή τους που άργησε μια ζωή.
Nothing like "Tun Huang", which has to be good. But rather strange.There's nobody to love here ... although I liked the ballsy wife ... it's just three letters offering three perspectives on relationships with one man and asking questions about what we can ever really know about each other. Answer: very little.
Me ha parecido una obra bellísima, inteligente y bellísima, profunda y bellísima, elegante y bellísima, triste y… sí, bellísima. La soledad en la que en el fondo vive todo ser humano no puede expresarse mejor:“Creo que es una gran locura en el hombre el querer que otro le comprenda.”
Ich habe das Buch heute im Laden gesehen und nur gekauft, weil da "Sonderpreis" dran stand ... und ich danke für dieses Quengelschild. Dieses Buch hat mich umgehauen, weil es so leise und still daher kommt ... aber es eigentlich nicht ist. Auf weniger als 100 Seiten wird die Geschichte eines Mannes und den Beziehungen zu den Damen in seinen Leben erzählt. Tragisch mit Ende.
Aspettava da un po' di essere scartato questo regalo e ho pensato fosse arrivato il momento.Solo che una storia così coinvolgente, esistenziale e lancinante non la si può leggere impunemente in mezzo alla gente sconosciuta di una carrozza ferroviaria!
non potevano essere che loro -agli occhi degli altri- la causa immediata del mio viso un po' congestionato, non certo il morso del serpente che ciascuno di noi custodisce in seno ignorato da tutti.
Anche da noi stessi.Da leggere e rileggere.
Anche in questo concordo con il bel commento di Ginny 1807.
I don't make much time for novellas, so I'm certainly glad I gave this one a try.
Remind me to reevaluate my dismissiveness about the form.After noticing and being--figuratively--struck by an unknown hunter in the bush one day, a poet writes a poem about him.
Later, he receives a letter from that hunter, who'd recognized himself in the published poem.
Even more strangely, the hunter takes it upon himself to enclose three deeply personal letters he has received.
These three letters form the narrative.Within a very few pages and such an inventive structure, Inoue spins a taut, utterly compelling tale of love, betrayal, and death.
Dit terecht opgeviste pareltje werd in 1949 geschreven door Yasushi Inoue, de grootste Japanse schrijver waarvan je nog nooit hebt gehoord. In de deels autobiografische raamvertelling lezen we in drie brieven over de ontrouw van eenzelfde man. De verschillende zijden van liefde en overspel ontvouwen zich als gladgestreken origami bij monde van zijn bedrogen echtgenote, zijn minnares en haar dochter die elk een ander perspectief innemen over beminnen en bedriegen. De frisse vertaling doet eer aan Inoue’s metaforische kracht en elegant raffinement.3,5/5
This short, Japanese novella is the story of an affair told through three letters penned by the three women involved – the mistress, her daughter and the betrayed wife.
He opens the book in the first person, explaining how a poem he composed about a solitary hunter, once glimpsed on a path leading into the woods, came to be published in a friend’s hunting magazine.
After its publication he is sent the three letters, collected here, by a man claiming to be the hunter who isnpired the poem.
Yet, despite how the story is framed, at its heart it is about the complicated relationships of the three women to each other.
The reader thinks the poem is based on him, as he remembers a time and place, where he carried a specific type of hunting gun - all elements of which were featured in the poem.
It just felt like story told from three point of views.The Hunting Gun is Yasushi Inoue's debut novel.
The three perspectives in The Hunting Gun reminded me of Ryunosuke Akutagawa's possibly most famous short story: In a Bamboo Grove (which Kurosawa's movie Rashomon is based on).
I read and mentioned this not long ago, and would highly recommend the short story, in which a single event is told from multiple character perspectives.
