https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13662.The_Tombs_of_Atuan
June 2012I want to give this five stars, but I'm afraid one of the next ones will be even better, and my attempts to rate it higher will cause Goodreads to implode.
Let's do this thing.You've probably read or heard somewhere that you can put a frog (it's a frog, right?) in a pot of water and set it on a stove, and the frog will never notice what's happening until it's too late.
Le Guin writes like that: you open the book thinking you're going for a swim, and you never notice the water getting hotter until it burns.
However, out of the darkness of those chapters, and out of the depths of the labyrinth, came a story of redemption, human suffering and a will, a will to overcome great evil when succumbing to the darkness would have been a much easier path to walk.
It’s odd to talk about such strong character development in a novel this short, but Artha completely changes.
She can achieve a lot in just a few words; the whole mood of the story shifts in just a few chapters; yet, it’s appropriately done.
I also liked the shift of narrators; it added a little more flavour the Earthsea world.
Half way through reading The Tombs of Atuan, I was sitting downstairs playing my xBox late at night when I heard voices drifting down from upstairs.
What was different, it turned out, was that Miloš was Ged and Brontë was Tenar, and they were in the dark room of the Great Treasure, playing the Tombs of Atuan.
A few days later, I was working in my office and I heard Miloš outside my door talking to Vetch from A Wizard of Earthsea.
There is no cultural weight to lead them into playing at Ged and Tenar.
When I first tried reading this in my teens I could not manage to go beyond 50 pages because I wanted Ged (AKA Sparrowhawk), the hero of the previous volume A Wizard of Earthsea, to show up and follow him on new adventures.
Young fool that I was, I did not read on to the middle of the book where Ged does show up for more adventures though this time as the secondary character.
I say fine because it evokes many great labyrinthian images, old, old traditions of sacrifice to the Dark Old Ones, and eventually, freedom from the same.There's a lot of beauty here, and while I didn't love it on quite the same scale as Ged's original journey in the first book, it's mainly because I liked the core theme better.Other readers will absolutely take out of this book different layers.
I can say that confidently because there are some really beautiful and clear layers interwoven here.The past and the evil in the past can be broken and escaped.
The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, #2), Ursula K.
Le GuinThe Tombs of Atuan is a fantasy novel by the American author Ursula K.
Le Guin, first published in the Winter 1970 issue of Worlds of Fantasy, and published as a book by Atheneum Books in 1971.
The Tombs of Atuan was a Newbery Honor Book in 1972.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ششم ماه ژانویه سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: دریای زمین کتاب 2 - گورهای آتوان؛ نویسنده: ارسولا کی.
زندگی اش را به عنوان راهبه ی یکم برای قدرتهایی بی نام و باستانی در زمین وقف و او را در محل گورستان، در میانه ی بیابان آتوان جا میدهند.
Was this a series that one needed to read at a young age and then let nostalgia keep fresh?It is at times like this that I actually hate that our star rating is listed before the review, as anyone with a casual glance can say, “Yes Tim, enough with the dramatics, we can see the four stars.
The ending section, in my opinion, is what redeems the entire story aspect and raises it to that minor masterpiece status.Now, ignoring this, I would still say I liked this book better, even if it didn’t have the emotional impact (though I assure you, I’m so very glad it did).
Arha spends much of her life underground in the maze of catacombs, groping to find the way, which in the most part is a secret known only to herself; memorising the routes and passages where all light is forbidden, even to her.“Touch was one’s whole guidance; one could not see the way but held it in one’s hands”​“Here there was no wind, no season; it was close, it was still, it was safe.”Thar tells Arha of (view spoiler)[ treasure which is hidden within the labyrinth, and which wizards from the archipelago have tried to steal (hide spoiler)] reminding her that there are unbelievers who can work magic:“the Wizards of the West can raise and still the winds, and make them blow whither they will…it is said they can make light at will, and darkness; and change rock to diamonds; and lead to gold…at least in seeming”When she becomes fourteen, Arha takes on the full responsibilities of her position, as the highest ranked priestess in the Tombs.
She leads such a sheltered existence that considering what the world beyond the Tombs may be like never really occurs to her until she meets Ged. In some respects her moral anguish over the fate of the men she left in the chained room reminds a little of my own character Vexis Zaelwarsh, Low Priestess of Avanti who features in Rise of the Archmage.
I actually think this book has a very similar theme to Vexis's story in Deathsworn Arc. The exploration of faith and fear...
I liked the claustrophobia and darkness of the tombs where no light is ever permitted and explorers have to feel their way in the darkness.
It’s almost the opposite, in that way: Ged isn’t the POV character anymore, and instead we follow Arha/Tenar, seeing her experience in a different land, seeing Ged as an outsider.
That image somehow epitomises the book for me: his serenity and trust, his link to the world around him, and also the way Tenar sees him, truly sees him, alive and in the world and not at all a part of the dark existence she led before… it’s hard to put into words, but that image does it.Originally posted here.
Hep aynı şeyleri söylemek istemiyorum ama bazı kitaplar gerçekten ilk gençlikte okunmalı.
'Yerdeniz Serisi'nin bu ikinci kitabı o kadar güçlü bir girizgahla umutlandırdı ve merakla okumaya devam etmemi sağladı ki sonu büyük hayal kırıklığı oldu.
Kendini okutturan bir anlatımı var ve bana göre birçok insanın bu seriyi, fazla sevmesinin temelinde de bu var.
Ancak bana göre bir eseri kolayca okuyabilmek, o eseri bize sevdiren koşullardan biri olmamalı.
Ursula'nın bu seriyi kaleme aldığı seneler, Joseph Camphell'ın 'monomit' yapısının, en çok konuşulduğu ve uygulandığı seneler.
Her taşın altından bir 'ben burdayım' diye bağıran yerleştirme çıkıyor.
İşte dedim ya bazı kitaplar daha erken, ilk gençlikte okunmalı.Kitap kötü bir kitap değil ama, onu kastetmiyorum.
I've read the first three Earthsea books a heap of times, starting when I was at my academic peak (i.e. in primary school).
In contrast, I have observed that a number of female Goodreaders who are also LeGuin fans, rate this higher than the other two.
I can take a guess as to why that might be; there are no female characters in the other two.
There are some women, even some who play pivotal roles, in both, but they are not fully formed characters, let alone protagonists.
A Wizard of Earthsea and The Farthest Shore are entirely male-dominated.
The Tombs of Atuan, in contrast, is almost entirely female dominated.
Le Guin addresses those issues later, in Tehanu, but women aren't really present in the first book.So it's just nice to have a book framed by women: Tenar and Thar and Kossil and Penthe, the priestesses and novices of the Tombs.
The fact that Arha/Tenar is the main character, and not Ged, gives it a whole different slant.
Her story is less of an epic quest than Ged's -- there's tension, and danger, but they're not going to something, they're escaping something.
It's interesting.The language and descriptions and images are all as beautiful as the first book.
And at the year's end she is taken to the Hall of the Throne and he name is given back to those who are her Masters, the Nameless Ones: for she is the nameless one, the Priestess Ever Reborn.Tenar is selected as a young child as the Priestess Reborn and taken from her family at the young age of 5 to become the guardian of the Tombs of Atuan.
It isn't exactly action packed, but the writing is beautiful and it makes me wonder what is to come in the books following in the series.
Reread, for the first time in a long while. When I was thirteen I appreciated this book but I didn't like it as much as Wizard and Farthest Shore—there's less magic, less incident, and a lot more slow creeping dread. On this reread the dread itself became magical. And much as I love Ged, Tenar feels more... like she exists from the marrow out. I have a theory about this, but it's more of an essay-length theory than a Goodreads capsule review theory. In short, brilliant and deep.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Scope Review: Earthsea Trilogy.
“Only in silence the word,Only in dark the light,Only in dying life:Bright the hawk’s flightOn the empty sky”Yin & Yang?I honestly don't remember a time when I wasn't obsessed with reading and collecting books.
I'd define childhood as a never-ending vacation.
A weekend without a week following and reading-time everlasting.
I still remember the never-ending days of my childhood.
One of my favourite childhood memory was when I was twelve years old with my Grandmother Glória at home and me reading to her "O Feiticeiro de Terramar" ("A Wizard of Earthsea").
Ekip okumalarina dahil kitaplardan biriydi... Ursula Le Guin'i her okuyusumda buraz daha seviyor, kalemine hayran oluyorum. Ne gec kalmisim okumaya...Bu kitapta Tenar'in hikayesini okudum, Atuanda mezarlar ve karanlikla yuzlestim. Okurken kendi yasamimdaki donemecleri ve kararlarimi sorguladigim zamanlarim oldu...Ve Ged.. Cevik Atmacam... Onun durusunu, karakterini oyle seviyorum ki... Defalarca okunasi bir kitap!
She is no longer Tenar but Arha "the eaten one," First Priestess of the Nameless Ones.
One day Arha sees a light in the Undertomb and discovers, GASP!, a man walking around down there.
She wonders why the gods she serves have not unleashed their wrath upon the man with the light.
She has always been taught that disaster will follow if light is brought into the Undertomb.Arha traps the man underground and amuses herself by spying on him while she decides what to do.
He shares with Arha his hard-won wisdom and helps her see that the Nameless Ones are not gods, but dark forces to be avoided.
Le Guin, for writing books that are so good, sometimes they hurt.Like A Wizard of Earthsea, The Tombs of Atuan follows a single protagonist over a long span of her life.
Taken from her by the priestesses, Ged divines it and utters it almost casually at a parting, and in so doing he returns to Arha her true identity as Tenar, setting her off on the path to liberation.Now that I have re-read the first two books, it seems so obvious to me that the entire Earthsea series is about, among other things, identity.
Just like that, Le Guin smites us with a sense of joy that has heretofore been totally absent from Tenar's life.A lesser writer might have ended the book after Tenar and Ged escape the Tombs of Atuan.
That quietness, that moment of clarity, of seeing-things-anew...If nothing else, that's the feeling I get when I read her work.The Tombs of Atuan begins to redress the balance of the world Le Guin created.
And she doesn't fall into any kind of trap about black-and-white good-and-bad, either: Thar is positive, even though she's grim, and Arha/Tenar has her moments of darkness as well as of light.And of course, as far as I'm concerned, prose-wise Le Guin can do no wrong.It might take me a while to get round to reading The Farthest Shore, as that's my least favourite of the sequence.
But it's also just the story of Tenar, called Arha, priestess of the Nameless Ones and mistress of the Undertomb - a girl who believes herself hard, cold and powerful.
And it is the story of Ged, the young wizard who finds himself at her mercy.
It is a story of finding compassion, and how strength lies not in the dark and restricted ways, or in bringing death - but instead lies in having the courage to admit vulnerability, in daring to step outside all that is taught and to find ones way to the light.The writing is just beautiful - some of the descriptive passages here are unparallelled.
Hem surukleyici, elinden biraktirmiyor kendini, hem de kisacik.
Olmaz ki boyle.Bu kitabi da cok sevdim, ve basima bir is gelmeyecekse eger icimdeki gizli romantigi durttu bu kitaptaki guzel bag."Ogrenmeye basladigi sey aslinda ozgurlugun yukuydu.
Ozgurluk agir bir yuktur, ruhun yuklenmesi gereken buyuk ve garip bir sorumluluk.
Kolay degildir.
Verilen bir armagan degil, yapilan bir secimdir; bu secim de zor bir secim olabilir.
Yol, yukariya, isiga dogru cikar; ama yuklu yolcu oraya hicbir zaman varamayabilir."Bu arada bizim dunyada da var ise eger iki parcaya ayrilmis bir halka ki birlestiginde barisi getirecek; herkes yanina yoresine bir baksin bence.
Ozgurluk yukunu secebilmek ve isiga varabilmek dilegiyle.Bes yildiz.
Le Guin'in Yerdeniz serisinin ilk satırlardan okuru fantastik dünyasına alıp götüren ve sürükleyen bir kitap ve çok etkileyici bir yapıt olabileceğini hiç tahmin edemezdim. Okurken hep şunu düşündüm, "Neden ben bu kitabı şimdiye kadar okumadım?" Fantastik edebiyat severlerin bence kaçırmaması gereken yapım.Kitapla ilgili yorumum: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
Možda sam iskvaren fantastikom na veliki broj strana, ali ovih sto trideset strana, ma koliko divno napisanih (a zaista jesu; retko se sreće stil kao stil Legvinove), mi ne čini puno. Ne stignem ni da upoznam likove kad ono – kraj. A i nekako mi je sve to slično prethodnom delu, samo sa „druge strane prozora“. Ali možda mi vremenom, kao što je bio slučaj sa Čarobnjakom, Grobnice Atuana postanu draže, jer slike su svakako dovoljno upečatljive, kao što je, čini mi se (a tek ću se zaista upoznati) bio i Ursulin život. A knjige ostaju kao svedoci. 3+
Simple story.The book tells the story of Tenar who has been born on the same moon day when the high priestess of Nameless ones at the tombs dies, due to this she gets chosen to be the next high priestess in the Tombs of Atuan.Taken away from her family at the age of five, she quickly starts believing that the tombs are her only home, she is guided in her priestly duties by Thar & Kossil.
The rivalry between Kossil & Tenar seems hollow.Now the ownership of the tombs is shown to be claimed by priestess of two different sects, one who worship the God king and other which serve the Nameless ones.
I found imagery of the mystery and challenge of self-discovery; imagery of the conflict and dual-nature within humanity and within individuals; imagery of loss, dedication, loneliness, and self-denial; imagery of childhood, adolescence, and adulthood; imagery of gender roles and expectations and even … (dare I say it?) … imagery of sex and the loss of one's … innocence.In a sense, The Tombs of Atuan is the female counterpart to A Wizard of Earthsea.
Both books have much to say about finding one's self and one's way in the world, the first through a male character, Ged, and the second through a female character, Tenar.
The second book of the Earthsea Cycle starts off in a slightly baffling way -- not with Ged, the central character of the series, but rather with Arha, a young girl who has been chosen to become the next High Priestess of the Tombs of Atuan and spends her life performing rituals in which no one really seems to believe any more.
The best book in the series, worth a full five stars.* with the possible exception of Neil Gaiman’s London Below, which is superb if you know London and are familiar with its underground system.
Nevjerojatno se brzo čita.
Nastavak pustolovina iz Earthsea serijala napravio je pravi mali zaokret.
Ursula odlazi u daleki Atuan, u svijet zla i gotovo cijela knjiga prati život prve svećenice Sjena, Smrti i Bezimenih zloduha.
Sve izgleda savršeno za mladu Arhu dok u Grobnicama kojima ona vlada ne naiđe na vrhunskog čarobnjaka Geda koji je u potrazi za nečime što će ujediniti svjetove i donijeti mir.
Sve spaja JEDAN prsten?!), ali kao i u prvom dijelu to ne smeta baš u ničemu.
Zgodan sadržaj, vrlo mali vremenski pomaci u romanu, i savršeno udruživanje glavnih junaka iz prve i druge knjige.
Prelazak na drugog protagonistu nakon prvog dela deluje malo razočaravajuće, kao i relativno spor početak, ali Legvinova sve to brzo preokreće u zapanjujuću priču. Tokom čitanja, gotovo možete da opipate tamu, kao i junakinja romana.Opisivanje specifičnosti društva ili zajednice koja je radikalno drugačija od svega što poznajete na takav način da na kraju imate utisak da znate sve o njima... Savršeno, kao i uvek kada je Legvinova u pitanju - ponovo uspeva da ceo svet spakuje na 160 i kusur strana.Bez dileme, preporuka svakome ko želi fantastiku bez nepotrebnog razvlačenja na 1000 strana.
Well, this is quite a perfect book, in every regard: the writing, the characters, the story, the setting.
the salvage, fanatic white blonde guys) , this is not the focus of the story, so the reader may very well disregard the political message and just enjoy the tale, without feeling „staged” (as he usually feels reading Le Guin`s books).NB While most people agree „Earthsea” is a fictional, fantasy realm, I beg to differ.
It is a prehistoric, earthly, anachronistic Oceania setting, not very different from Howard`s Hyborea, for example.
