https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1223919.Arctic_Adventure
Freuchen spent years exploring the Arctic in the early 1900's, living with Eskimos, & gives a first hand account of his adventures.
Some of them are quite memorable since our technology was quite new to many of them.
Others tell us about the remarkable hardships & resilience of humans.
A truly wonderful book filled with humor & passion.
If you like it, check out his second wife's book, Adventures in the Artic.
There are some additional stories & details that add a lot of depth to this entire adventure, but it lacks the humor & insight of Peter's story..
This book was much better than I expected it to be.
Te author was a friend of my Danish great grandfather, so I was given a copy of the book at a family gathering.
The lives of the Greenland Eskimos and their families are fascinating, and despite being written in a less than "Politically-correct" age (1940s) the writing is surprisingly sensitive and respectful.
I read with fascination about the authors many near-death experiences crossing expanses of glacial ice cap or sea ice, and about the daily lives and rituals of the native people with whom he assimilates.
One of the best books I've ever read. This man deserves a series of movies made about him... but at the same time, no movie could make him justice. Brilliant, brilliant book that everyone should read!!!
This book made me remember why I fell in love with reading.
When I was a child, every book I read widened my thought horizon and I discovered new worlds and learned how other people lived and felt.I could never understand why people would voluntarily leave the comforts of modern (well, almost modern – the action begins in 1910) life and go to places where just to stay alive is a struggle, but I do admire them.See my full review: https://readingbadger.club/2018/02/28...
It’s an easy read, delectable characters (they are real life characters), a ton of fun anecdotes and some serious exploring.
Plus, I defy you not to be seduced by the reason he gave up being a doctor.Basically, this is fifteen years in the life of Dane Peter Freuchen, covering his residence in the arctic, including his marriage to an Inuit woman.
Dog lovers may experience some difficulties with the memoir, Freuchen has no reason to embellish or hide the cold, hard facts about arctic life.
His necessary sledge journeys are page-turning thrillers as time and time again, you believe that he must be at death's door, forgetting that if he did succumb to starvation and freezing temperatures, the book wouldn't exist.
Whether it washing hair and clothes in human urine, wife swapping or the cuisine (as a vegan I found some of the meal descriptions stomach turning but at the same time I could fully understand that that was what they needed to eat - it was that or starvation!) I found Freuchen's descriptions intriguing and there was certainly never a dull moment.
Their lives certainly were not easy.I HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone who enjoys learning about different cultures, likes to study human character or just enjoys a good adventure story.
Excellent mind-opening documentary of two young men exploring a vastly different culture of Greenland in the 1930s. Peter Freuchen, a native Dane wrote of his adventure himself in English describing his life exploring a land and culture that is largely unknown and hard to understand even today.
This is the best adventure novel, well, writing, that I have ever experienced. What strength and courage. What clever men. What strong dogs.
This books starts with Freuchen telling stories about his time as a journalist and showman where he all but admits that an interesting story is better than a true one.
I kept both these facts in mind as I read short (some only a paragraph) story after short story told almost in a letter to an old friend style about a young man's adventures with Inuit people of Greenland.
That being said, Freuchen finds joy and conveys customs and beliefs of the native people in comparison to his own in what will certainly be a "have you ever read this" book in my home library for years to come.
Rates up with the river of doubt,
Get me to Greenland
