https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170165.Seth_Speaks
Strange pic on the cover of the author, but the information contained (channelled info gained in the 60s at 'seances' as they were called originally) is mind blowing, reality shattering and absolutely riveting.
Now it is more in line with what people would 'get' compared to the 70s when I read it as quantum physics is now explaining much of what is in the book.As I read this book I felt as if my mind was taking in information that it could not 'get' at that age.
This is now more understood having had The Secret plus many other books out there talking about how to create your reality with your beliefs.
For so long I have looked for concepts and ideas to help bring some meaningful understanding to my life, and although I have read many wonderful books which have gone some way to explain, they have often left me with more questions than they answered, as well as a feeling that there was still something missing.
For the curious mind who is genuine in his/her desire to understand the meaning of life and where it is taking you then it really is one of those books that will never leave your bedside, and no matter how many times you read it you always discover something new.
By 'no time' Seth means that everything is happening simultaneously.
7.) Note also that there are many hierarchies in Seth; not only are their probable selves (instances of the soul in other reincarnational dramas) but there is also an 'oversoul' that stands above the the various probable souls inhabiting different realities and learns from their experiences and also, more or less gently, directs this experience too.
Indeed, since Seth also teaches that there are probable selves (other instantations of ourselves) living entirely different lives in other realities one wonders whether evil, and its responsibility, has any meaning at all...
The Seth readings are just such an example.
We have made contact with intelligent life, and that is Seth.
I have read some fantastic literature from some interesting sources, and this material is by far the more enlightening .
I have been a Seth fanatic for over 25 years, and "its" ideals have been confirmed through other sources.
I have read this book 5 times, as well as all the other Seth books, and if I can live until I die, I plan on reading it a few more times.
This book was very enlightening to me and confirmed a lot of things I had somehow known since a child and reawakened in the late 90's when I started exploring the realms of quantum physics and chaos theory.
It is a book about embracing your spirit.
It is a book about finding your way to spiritual truth.I have read most of the Seth books, but this was probably the best one in my estimation.
If you like this book, you will want to read the others.You will need to let go of your preconceived notions and become willing to open your mind.
He offers practical advice that will help the readers to get in touch with their spirits.I credit Seth with helping me to begin to have spiritual experiences within my own life.
Seth explains the multidimensionality of the soul in a way that simply feels true.
yet this makes it feel even more real.
Although i was never particularly worried about souls, death and life thereafter, Seth has managed to remove any slightest worry I might have had and has replaced it with curiosity and a deep sense of satisfaction.
Seth has forever changed my life by explaining the (usually) intangible, the elusive, the hidden and the unanswerable.
Thank you Seth for making my reality forever more beautiful!
I have no idea if Jane Roberts channels an entity called Seth or if she gets this out of some portion of her mind we all have but only she seems to have contact with.
And I don't care.
What I care about is the material.
I've read a lot of philosophy in my time and nothing compares to Seth in his entirety.
Religion is a devilishly clever and completely cynical way to control the minds of other people.
Seth is a way to set those minds free.
Fascinating. "You form the reality that you know. You get exactly what you want to get. You create from nothing the experience that is your own. If you do not like your experience, then look within yourself and change it." And that's just for starters. There's a wealth of information here and much of it is hard to believe. Yet there is also a lot to seriously think about. This is a book for open minds.
I remember I had been living in Eugene for about a year when one of my best friends said I should read it.
The most important thing I got out of reading was the feeling of relief - and, for some reason, belief - that the 'I' that I am, does not extinguish at death like a flame being blown out.
I have wondered about death since I was six years old, laying under a wooden coffee table thinking, "This must be what it's like to be dead." When I got older and could imagine more sophisticated things than death being an eternal view of the inside of a coffin, I still didn't have a satisfactory explanation, whether it was heaven and hell, nirvana, or eternal Nothingness.
The Seth books are based on a a woman, Jane Roberts who lived in the 60's who acted as a medium for the personality Seth who choose to dictate 6,000 pages from somewhere beyond.
Jane's husband writes down all that is said during the sessions and throughout the book there are questions posed to Seth, answers and commentary about her husband who was taking the notes.
The commentary can be easily skipped over while taking in the more interesting dialogue between Jane Roberts and the personality from beyond.
When talking about it with a great friend, she recommended this book Seth Speaks.
It's hard to describe just what is in this amazing book.
Parts of it resonated with me and what I have come to believe over the years.
I think this is a book which needs to be read over and over again and you really need to take the time to mull it all over.
But even if this doesn't turn out to be something you feel is true for you, it's at the very least an incredible and amazing story.
Seth Speaks is the best of the Seth books, in my opinion.
This is one of those books, like The Spear of Destiny, that I encountered while doing research for what became my fiction series.
Seth's assertions that we live in a safe universe and that we are as dead now as we are ever going to be really hit me between the eyes.
I wanted to feel the truth of these propositions a level far deeper than just the intellect.
I wanted to experience them, and that led me to the Sunan healing method that I describe in my first co-authored nonfiction work.
Seth Speaks is an outstanding read.
I can, from time to time, carry on about certain things I read in some of Carlos Castaneda's books.
This book cannot take the place of the Teachings of Don Juan, Don Juan and Seth talk about some of the same things, but Don Juan's teachings are embedded in the narrative that Carlos Castaneda gives us, Seth speaks is one huge, sprawling rant given to us through the medium of one Jane Roberts.
The speaker, Seth, tends to repeat his or herself over and over again, so I took to reading the book one recorded session at a time, which averages out to three or four pages at a time.
One of the most powerful of the Seth books, Seth Speaks is an essential guide to conscious living. It clearly and powerfully articulates the furthest reaches of human potential and presents the concept that we are independent of our physical image and have access to intuitional knowledge and other dimensions of reality. Seth Speaks has withstood the test of time and is still considered one of the most dynamic and brilliant maps of inner reality and human potential available today.
This was my first Seth book and lead me into intensive reading for years as I pursued all of Jane Roberts channelings, took Seth classes, was on the first board of directors for the Rocky Mountain Seth Conference and wrote for the Texas Seth newsletter.
So far, utterly mind-blowing.
I read the Seth series, when such things were barely known, much less accepted.
It was very interesting to me how Seth led the reader, very gently through things that were easily acceptable in the beginning books to things things in the later books that began to show a deep connection with the Eisenstein model of the Universe and Quantum Physics, and were waaaay out there for the average reader at the time.
So this review is less a review of the single book than of the entire series and cleverly empirical way in which the reader was led from point A to Point Z.
I enjoyed this book and am glad I took my time reading it. When I reached page 426 last night--the final page of the appendix--I read a line that I thought summarized the essence, or purpose of this book. The empowering reminder, if you will, that the true "magic" of spirituality, the beauty of life, is in the self and how we choose to view the world: "Forget the cringing selves that you sometimes are and remember, instead, the magic essence of your own being that sings even now through your fingertips."
I read this book twice, gave it away (as I usually do) and bought it again. That's how much I love it. I keep going back to look paragraphs up, and I am elated when I see quotes from the book. It is one of the few books I never want to lose again. Every time I read in it, I have more aha moments about life, in the physical and the non-physical realm. It is not a book you can read in one sitting. At least I had to stop after each chapter and contemplate what I just read.
I came across this book almost by accident in the 80s, picked it up and put it down a couple of times, left the store, then went back because, I told myself, it was marked down to only $1. To this day it is the most influential book I've ever read. To say it changed my life would be an understatement (and a cliche), but I'll say it anyway.
This book provides fascinating concepts that certainly broaden my idea of reality. I think many people have may have difficulty reading this book due to their own personal beliefs. One must have an open-mind in order to sit down and actually read this book. It is a treat...
Transformational.
Blew my mind.
I've been into spirituality and the 'new age' stuff for a long time, but I think the Seth material is still the best source for information even though it seems like many people these days that are into law of attraction and etc.
haven't read the Seth material, or aren't even aware of it, even though it is basically what started it all and in my opinion the best source to get a very precise general understanding of how our world works.
I know that this was written (dictated) in the early 70's but a lot of this information is just as relevant today as it was then.
Seth's descriptions of his past lives are fun and light hearted, but that's not the majority of the book.
Also, the question and answer portions of this just weren't as engaging (to me) as Seth's thoughts on interdimensional/multidimensional reality.The Stage meditation on page 56 of this book is really an interesting meditation and I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to experience the inner worlds of their own mind.
This is the first I've read from Seth and I don't know if they wrote a separate book with just his suggested exercises for consciousness.
Apparently I accidentally erased my review of this last night. Read this book! It will change your perspective on reality. And for those of us who are fans of the Seth material, please visit channelhigherself.com for free videos on the same topics covered in this book. Lincoln Gergar (channel higher self) is one amazing being.
I have yet to read. But my brother who recommended the Alchemist, also recommended this. I am fascinated from what he told me..although a little scared as I know it will question my faith and beliefs. However, he said it reinforced his! Definitely next on my list. Will keep all posted.
heavy duty!
I can't get enough of Seth and Jane Roberts!
