https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85211.Pronto
I figured I'd start out with Pronto, the first novel to feature stetson-wearing Federal Marshal Raylan Givens, native of Harlan County and veteran of the Kentucky mines.
(For example, Joyce, Harry's ex-stripper girlfriend, describes Raylan, who she has seen in the hotel lobby, to Harry.) The reader gets a description, but he also benefits from the further development of two additional characters, all at the same time.You Justified fans want to know, though: is this Raylan really the same Raylan?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/When 99.99999% of the entertainment value of your reviews is .gif based, things like this: tend to happen quite frequently and some reviews just flat out fall through the cracks of your pop-culture-infused brain. Thus was the case with Pronto. I’m always fighting the losing battle of correcting some of my literary shortcomings and reading authors who I know I want to read and should be reading, but somehow still haven’t (and yet someho
Me, being the extremely clever lady I am, decided to give the book a gander, then surprise my husband with my vast knowledge of all things Raylan Givens and perhaps even enjoy the final season of Justified with him.
if I had liked Pronto a whole lot more.The premise, although perhaps a bit stale and overused, was entertaining enough.
Leonard even decided to throw in an Italian background to class things up a bit.
But in book form, he was a total a bit of an idiot.
This is actually the story of Harry Arno, a bookie who has decided that in one more year he's going to retire and go to Italy.
It's also amusing how his fixation on Pound affects those around him (his girlfriend, Joyce, memorizes all of the terrible things about ol' Ezra and even Raylan, after being assigned to escort Harry, goes to the library and checks out some of Pound's poetry, though he's puzzled by everything he reads and soon gives up).
Raylan Givens is the U.S. Marshal who decides to go to Italy and try to save Harry from himself and from the hitman he knows has followed Harry.
If you read the whole book, you’ll be sure to set your DVR to record the series so you won’t miss a minute of it.Harry Arno is a sixty-six year old bookie in Miami who has been dreaming about retiring to Italy for years.
His plans get escalated when the feds make Harry’s mob partner think that he’s been skimming to force Harry to become a witness to avoid being killed.
After an attempt is made on Harry’s life, U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens is assigned to watch Harry to make sure he doesn’t get killed.
Pronto is my first read from Elmore Leonard and it’s all because of the introduction of one Raylan Givens, the character the TV series Justified is based on, which I’m a big fan of.
I will follow up with the next in the series because Raylan as you may have guessed is a bit of a favourite and this story whilst absorbing, was never translated into an episode of Justified.
The audio narration by Nick Landrum at just over 7 hours was pretty good, with the odd bit of Italian dialect and this certainly won’t be my last Elmore Leonard and Raylan Givens story.
Like many writers, I want to pay tribute to Elmore Leonard, who recently passed away.
He was for me the quintessential writer of quirky, engaging and thoroughly believable dialogue.
When reading his books, I never much paid attention to the plots because I was too engaged in his characters.
You got to know them in the course of a book, and you wanted to spend time with them.
Even most bizarre, troublesome and sometimes evil characters were compelling enough that you wanted to know more.
If you've never read one, give him a try.
Then the last 24 pages happen and throw everything up for grabs.The story opens in South Miami Beach, where 66-year-old Harry Arno ("He was the same age as Paul Newman", Leonard mentions) is in a tight spot.
The U.S. Marshals Service, anticipating that Harry needs to stay healthy long enough to testify, posts one of their men outside his apartment.Enter Raylan Givens, a man Joyce reports looks more like a farmer than a fed.
Using far less sophisticated means, the Zip learns where to look for Harry and returns to his home country, where a network of fellow Zips are more than happy to help him find a guy.Pronto is a novel I could take or leave through 241 of its 265 pages.
So when one reads The End of the Affair they experience a different approach to writing than the approach used by Greene in Brighton Rock.
But this is not an entertainment and the difference is Leonard's deep respect for reality.Leonard creates his world, populates it with his characters and then steps back, almost as if to see what happens.
And just as in life, we never fully know as much about these interesting people as we would like to know.It is for this want of knowing more about Leonard's characters that you could easily dismiss Leonard as a pulp-fictionist.
Pull down thy vanity...'-- Ezra Pound, Canto LXXXI Not the best Elmore Leonard, but worth it for three major things:1.
This is the first Elmore Leonard novel that features Raylan Givens (later to appear in the FX series Justified).
Imagine the possibility of Elmore Leonard writing about Ezra Pound.
3. Elmore Leonard's writing.
MacDonald, Jim Thompson, and Elmore Leonard.
From a ROI perspective, a prospective writer will, IMHO, do way better by spending $1000 buying and reading stuff from writers like Thompson, MacDonald, Leonard, etc., than $50-100k to get an MFA in creative writing.
Raylan in the tv show is ice cool character wonderfully written, played so well by an actor that reminded me of Clint Eastwood and not because of the modern Cowboy thing.Raylan in this book is just as great as a character, he carried the book in the same cool,hardboiled manner and he was mildly amusing with his whole style.
The novel was well done when it comes to dark humor as usual.The only reason i dont rate this book higher with more stars is that other characters was not as well written as Raylan.
This is a great introduction to Raylan & ends about where the TV series 'Justified' begins, although there was quite a change for TV.
Still, the basics are there & it paints a thorough picture of Raylan's personality.
He's a wonderful character, too.
The reader did some voices & all were intelligible yet distinct & fit the characters well.
At the end of a chapter or section, there should be a couple of seconds to break, but here "Chapter Twelve" (or whatever) comes so fast after the last word in chapter 11 that it's almost painful.This was another download from my local library.
Another Leonard classic. Never see Justified in FX but if it's anyway as good I will be happy to see it. It is probably one of my favorites novels with Rum Punch close behind, which is high praise because it was my favorite Leonard novel. Can't wait until read more of Raylan Givens' adventures.
However, when I picked up Pronto, I decided that I’d do my best to read all of the Raylan Givens novels in the order that they were released, and the first thing that becomes abundantly clear about Pronto is that despite being billed as the first in a Raylan Givens series, it is not a Raylan Givens novel, featuring the character only as a secondary role, instead shifting the focus onto 66 year old ex-con Harry Arno, who leads Raylan on a merry goose chase to Italy and back as the action divides itself between Miami and Europe in one of the strongest thriller novels that I’ve had the chance to read.Much like Justified, the dialogue here is excellent and the main selling point of the book.
Harry has been skimming profits from his boss Jimmy 'Cap' for years but has so far remained undetected until the Feds decide to set him up in order to get to Jimmy thus forcing him to move up his retirement date and has him fleeing town immediately.
I decided to pick Pronto as my first Elmore Leonard novel because of the fact that I love 'Justified' so much.
Pronto is a dialogue driven narrative with a large cast of engaging characters that are all given their share of the spotlight in this story.
):PRONTO was filled with dry humour, lots of bad guys, a small time criminal protagonist called Harry Arno ( aka John Harold Arnaud ) and a U.S Deputy Marshall sent to bring Harry back to Miami.
The novel opens with 66 yr old Harry, who is the Miami bookie that works for the local mob boss Jumbo Jimmy Capotorto.
The novel ends with Harry and Torres talking about Joyce's departure with Raylan and how Gloria is cosying up to Nicky and how McCormick has new plans in place for the Miami mob...
And all the while, Leonard is juggling characters, their motivations, and their desires.
Making this juggling act an even greater feat is the fact that the characters' motivations and desires are constantly shifting.Raylan Givens is our hero; what struck me about him was how fallible he was early in the novel.
Leonard writes better stuff in his sleep than most writers do when surcharged with Red Bull, coffee, and a head full of writing rules.
This wasn't a bad book, it bogged down badly in the middle...as I've noticed isn't all that unusual in some mystery, thriller or even action books.
Harry a ne'er-do-well thieving has-been crook who(may be called the main character) uses everyone he can etc.
I wasn't disappointed badly here, it's just that as in a lot of other books this one it seems to me could have been so much better.
The action picks up in the last third or so of the book and it moves along well.I'd say this one was a 3.5...so I'll round to 4.
Did I read the same book as everyone else?
After hearing about Leonard's supposed "mastery" of the hard-boiled crime genre, I picked this one up expecting plenty of twists, turns, and action.
Instead, I found myself reading page after page of dull dialogue.
Then they go to Italy and talk in cafes.
The plot is so simple and the action so scarce that one must wonder if Leonard is simply bored with his own work.
The character of Givens may be somewhat interesting, but his motivations for doing some absurd things are never really explained, and his love interest comes seemingly out of nowhere.
I can't believe this was the first Elmore Leonard novel I'd read.
After all, his character Raylan Givens is one of the most uniquely original protagonists in the last decade of television dramas.
This is the first full book featuring Federal Marshall Raylan Givens and it did not disappoint.
Leonard is a master story teller whose characters are so incredibly flawed that you can't help be drawn in by their idiosyncrasies.
This book has all the gun play and witty banter that I've come to love from 'Justified'.
I can't wait to read the next book in the Raylan series, and every other book Leonard has written.
I adore Justified, so I wanted to read the original source for the series. Decent, sparse writing and an ok plot.
Raylan makes the book though.He's a slightly different character than his screen version with a slightly different back story but essentially they occupy the same space both being sharp shooters, masters of the psychological edge that all gunmen need to stay in the game and of course there's the hat.
Some scenes and dialogue made it onto the screen in the first episode and a less globe trotting version of Harry's story can be found in episode 4 "Long in the Tooth" which includes the back roads confrontation between Raylan and two mob gunmen.Usually my idea of a box set binge is one episode a week because I like to savour the good stuff but I actually watched two episodes last week.
I really miss Justified, the brilliant TV show based on the shenanigans of Elmore Leonard’s character Raylan Givens.
I get the impression that Leonard wasn’t sure where he was going with the character at this point, which is fair enough.
It was interesting to learn the circumstances that led Raylan to shoot Tommy Bucks, the event which precipitates Justified.
Raylan is nonetheless an appealing fellow from the start: laconic and cool, while also intermittently ridiculous and foolhardy.
Although I enjoyed ‘Pronto’ and found it very funny at times, it didn’t assuage my yearning for more episodes of Justified.
This audiobook was a disappointment. The narrator was just there for a paycheck. As far as the story goes... literally any episode of Justified is better than this book.Thus Pronto has made it onto an exclusive list:The Movie Was Better  JawsThe Virgin SuicidesPronto
Enjoyable, but I had a hard time "Justifying" Leonard's character of Raylan with some bumbling decisions to the Tim Olyphant characterization in Raylan.
Not in Florida so much, I mean people from the south South.”“I’ve heard of Harlan County,” Joyce said.
Which is so true about the south South that I may have just realized now, at twenty-nine years old, despite having traveled all over the country, that it’s a southern thing.I live right on the county line, myself.
It means two different things, which side I say I’m from.
But, a little infamous Tommy Bucks deal aside, it’s Justified that’s “off-book,” and that’s how damn perfect the latter has the former’s voice.
But the best is, always, how tickled Elmore is to spend time with his people.
A modern cowboy wanna-be, U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens, has taken off for Italy in pursuit of Harry who is being sought by a number of felons who want to do him harm.
I watched a couple of the "Justified", liked them, and then have been reading the Givens books.
But Raylan in Italy, the quasi-hick from Kentucky, just didn't make it.
It was certainly interesting to see how they pulled isolated incidents from the books and melded them into a coherent set of episodes on the TV show.
Givens is an interesting invention, although I kept looking around for the horses.
I've become sort of indirectly obsessed with Elmore Leonard because of Justified (which, though it's the last thing anyone who knows me would have expected me to watch, I think has really influenced my understanding of how character and dialogue can function in storytelling), so it was nice to check out this book and see something much stronger than Raylan, which I think was too deeply in the shadow of the TV series, though I really loved "Fire in the Hole", which takes place after this and was adapted extremely faithfully as the pilot of the show.
I'm also a bit surprised to have read a crime novel and enjoyed it, though I think what makes Leonard work for me is how everything is so character driven.
"Pronto" is the first Leonard novel to feature Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens, who is the lead character on the FX series "Justified." Leonard is an EP on the show, so he's been fully involved with the evolution of the character from page to screen, and that evolution is just flat-out better than what we get here.
"Pronto" is still a good read, but Raylan isn't quite as dynamic and definitely not as cool a character here as he is on TV.
Plus, this novel is more about the guy Raylan's trying to help than the marshal himself, and that guy just isn't that interesting to me.
I liked this one quite a bit but I like Raylan Givens a lot. This is the first book starring the throwback Deputy Marshall and it is pretty much what you would expect. The characters are excellent, the dialog pops, the story move right along to a satisfying ending. Elmore Leonard is a goddamned genius and that is that.
What took me so long to read Elmore Leonard? This was fantastic, loved it from start to finish. Raylan Givens is a great character, so good I might even watch the TV show that features him. Headed to the library to get the next one...
