https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32692.Gerald_s_Game
Here's what I know for sure: 1) this story has lost none of its power over me, despite the fact I know everything that's going to happen (quite an impressive feat for a largely plot-driven suspense piece) 2) it is without question, one of King's most underrated, overlooked novels.
For a lot of Constant Readers, Gerald's Game will always be linked to its sister novel -- Dolores Claiborne -- as both books were released the same year and King meant them to be companion novels to one another.
(hide spoiler)]In telling Jessie's story King uncovers all the nitty-gritty minutia of human physical suffering and the desperation of one woman's attempt to end it.
The regularity in which Stephen King writes 3 plus, 4 and 5 star books is staggering.
What surprised me with Gerald's Game is after all these years Mr.King chose this book to spit in the face of horror.
This book commences with a solid, voyeuristic 4 star plot.
3 plus/4 star writing pulls us into the story until it's no longer voyeuristic.
Just when I thought it was over, the final few chapters of this book takes the plot up a notch and I'm not going to give you the slightest of clues.
5 stars for becoming my all time favorite Stephen King novel..
Gerald exits stage left, but though his lines are finished his corpse still has a role to play.Jessie is in a pickle.”Those are real handcuffs you’re wearing, not the cute little bondage numbers with the padding inside the wristlets and a hidden escape-lever you can push if someone gets carried away and starts going a little too far.
And the way I see it, you’re toast.”I don’t know if Jessie is technically schizophrenic because sometimes voices in our heads can be good guiding forces and not necessarily debilitating.
A traumatic event like being handcuffed to a bed in the middle of nowhere might bring out all kinds of voices in my head.
Read this BOOK in September 18, did not love the movie as much as book My first SK book!!! Will not be my last -> read it because of my friend Ron's review link below https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Review missing was something like blah-blah-blah not so scary as I thought it will be!!! I cannot remember to be honest do not feel like writing new review!!! Love the author writing style and I survived my first SK book - high five for me 😎😎😎
When I was 9 or so, my mother gave me permission to read books from the “adult section” of the library.
I looked around the room making sure no one else read the line I just did, closed the book and headed back down to the library where I turned the book in explaining to the librarian that I wasn’t quite as ready for Stephen King as I thought I was.Fast forward to now.
I feel like reading this book was so similar to Jessie being handcuffed to the bed.
Well, wrong.I thought that the whole novel would be about Jessie trying to escape, and that it would just drag and be boring.
I felt like I was in the room with her, and that really freaked me out.Also, Jessie (our main character, as I said before) definitely isn't one of the most likable character, at least at the start.
But, as the story progressed, I started liking her more and more, and hoping she would save herself somehow.But this book definitely isn't for everyone.
I loved the whole ending, and I wouldn't change a thing.
The re-read was actually rather satisfying.
I felt the power of the positive reversal.Now, I should say that I'm revising this from my three stars to four based mainly on the fact that the novel is good on its own, but when I chose to give it three (from memory), I did so based on my enjoyment in comparison with the rest of Stephen King's works.
It isn't his strongest novel by far, but it was still quite enjoyable.I think I'm going to really enjoy the movie in a few days.
PIÙ CHE UN GIOCO, È UNA PRESA IN GIROLo spunto è interessante, promette bene: purtroppo non mantiene affatto.Si tratta di un'idea da racconto, non dovrebbe andare oltre poche decine di pagine.Invece King la tira in lungo e in largo, e questa edizione italiana peggiora tutto: 300 pagine fitte fitte rendono la lettura una fatica, la traduzione è abborracciata, la copertina orrenda.
Este libro es bastante oscuro, no es precisamente de terror pero probablemente te deje con una sensación de repulsión y enfermedad mucho peor que cualquier libro de miedo. Es explícito y perturbador, no me esperaba los extremos a los que llegó King, con el pasado de la protagonista. definitivamente hay partes que sobran y por momentos se torna aburrido. Acabo de ver la película y puedo decir que me gustó más que el libro, muy buena adaptación
A kinky sex game. A heart attack. Handcuffed to a bed. A serial killer on the loose. Scary! Just watched the new film on Netflix... It is quite good.🐯👍
Jessie is left to face all of her worst fears, as the voices in her head take over...As someone who has a relatively short attention span, the premise of one character trapped in one location for almost the entirety of the novel didn't necessarily excite me, I really thought I'd struggle.
It's an uncomfortable read for sure, but I almost feel like you need to go through that in order to fully understand Jessie.
It's extremely gory at times too, which for a hardened horror fan like myself, is something I actually really enjoy, but I know not everyone will feel the same way.
You’d think being handcuffed to a bed with no one for miles around to hear your screams for help would be bad enough, but since this is Uncle Stevie readers also get to enjoy a visit from the neighborhood stray, as well as Jessie dealing with the demons of what happened during a summer long since past .
Some things I didn’t notice when I read this as a kid that I did this time, were that: (1) Jessie wasn’t trapped all that long – I get the initial panic and whatnot, but she really wasn’t going to die if she didn’t get that glass of water right away; (2) was the whole “de-gloving” necessary; or (3) was any of this feasible????
DNF 33%Trust me, I really tried. (I chose to watch the movie instead, which is actually great! So if you find yourself stuck like me, tune in to Netflix and save some time)
*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.comWhilst I have read a number of Stephen King books, mostly as a teenager, I was drawn to Gerald’s Game, due to the recent Netflix adaptation.
The horror moments and situations of gore are where King’s writing seems to stand out, it is like he relishes in these aspects of the novel.The timeline of this book is tight, it covers a 28 hour time period, over which Jessie is trapped.
The novel is titled Gerald’s Game but Gerald is not the main character, he is pivotal to the events that occur and he still crops up in Jessie’s handcuff ordeal in the form of a haunting voice.
UPDATE: The adaptation was phenomenal!!! Captured the tone of the book, well acted & absolutely unsettling   “If anyone ever asks you what panic is, now you can tell them: an emotional blank spot that leaves you feeling as if you've been sucking on a mouthful of pennies.”   I still believe that this is one of King’s best and most terrifying books ever. He managed to put the characters and the reader in one of the scariest situation, even after re-reading this I still hold my breath and anxi
I still believe that this is one of King’s best and most terrifying books ever.
He managed to put the characters and the reader in one of the scariest situation, even after re-reading this I still hold my breath and anxious throughout.[caption id="" align="aligncenter" width="500"]This Gif scares the shit out of me!![/caption]Jessie & Gerald decide to venture back to their cabin by the lake to sort of spice up their marriage.
This book isn’t for the faint-hearted some subject matter that is explored will leave the reader shocked.
This book was so hard to finish. However if King had written this book with the whole "space cowboy"-corpse molester-freak angle it would have been sooooo much scarier. I honestly thought Jessie was imagining a man in her home as she was chained up and it turns out a real man was there! If this had been the whole story... Her locked up with this man here and there and she doesn't know if he is real or not... It would have been so much better. Not King's finest... Glad it's over. Would not recommend.
WOW wirklich das grausamste Buch, dass ich bisher gelesen habe..sehr packend und nichts für schwache nerven :/ Story war TOP
This is only a second book I've read, written by the incredible author Stephen King.
There were parts in this book, that were so disgusting, wrong, awful that I had to take breaks reading it.
The first time was when I read about the thing that happened to her long ago.
The second time it happened, when I read about the thing she had to do, to rescue herself from this situation she was in.
It should portray things you read about so real for you, that you feel like you're there, like you see it happening, like it's happening to you.
YIKES! This is one scary, creepy and unsettling book! Also sometimes disturbing, this horror story has many angles and surprises all the way to the unexpected ending. Quite a page-turner.
”...but when a person is alone in the dark, all bets are off. Men and women alone in the dark are like open doors, Jessie, and if they call out or scream for help, who knows what dread things may answer?”  “Alone in the dark” is the key phrase up there. If there was a thing I remembered from the first time I read Gerald's Game, besides Jessie being handcuffed to the bed, it was the sun going down on her day. Night is coming. The thing that makes this book good, scary even, is realizing early i
If there was a thing I remembered from the first time I read Gerald's Game, besides Jessie being handcuffed to the bed, it was the sun going down on her day.
I knew what lay ahead this time, yet surprisingly there was still a little fear inside, because I had forgotten the order of things – and forgetting makes for new experiences.This time around though, it wasn't the boogeyman I enjoyed most, it was Jessie's past.
Locked to the bed, there is only the present, the coming dark, and her past.
My feelings about this book were all over the place.
So I'm giving Gerald's Game 3 stars but I don't feel great about it.
Gerald's Game is probably one of the most polarizing Stephen King novels I've ever read.
The reviews are all over the place, which after reading makes sense because I too felt all over the place reading it.
In order to tell you what Gerald's Game is really about I'd have to hide this whole review as one big spoiler.
No rec because I still don't know how I feel about it.
Geralyn says she once tried to read the book, but decided to quit when she peeked ahead a few hundred pages and found that Jessie was still handcuffed and still hadn't left the bed, much less the room the story starts in.
Indeed, King moves things along at the rate of a peppy glacier, making generous use of flashbacks to explore Jessie's shall we say "problems." The funny thing is that I listened to this on audiobook, a good chunk of it while sitting in Mandy's nursery and rocking her to sleep.
Der absolute Wahnsinn. Psychologischer Horror vom aller aller feinsten. Anspruchsvoll, poetisch, spannend, grausam... King in Höchstform! 😍😍
If you are into handcuffs and sex you'll love and then immediately hate this book. I guarantee that after reading this book you will never willingly use real handcuffs again.　Leave it to King to ruin another favorite pasttime.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #1: A Book Made into a Movie You've Already Seen(more like 3.5/5 stars)This was was a strange reading experience for me.
It was SO nasty and fucked up in so many ways (which I really liked) but it was also all over the place in terms of the narration, which I suppose makes sense since Jessie is quite unhinged mentally.
Bila bi petica da pisac nije razvukao ovu odličnu priču na preteranih 450 stranica. Ovakvim razvuuučeeniim središnjim delom knjige psihički me je izmaltretirao u par navrata. Zbog toga, ocena manje.
I know Stephen King is a legendary author especially when we're talking about the horror genre.
I know for a fact that many horror movies were adapted from his well written novels but I definitely would not want to see a movie adaptation of this one.
This book is just gross.
Perhaps Stephen King deserves credit for being able to create for his readers super vivid imagery, you can just see how horrible it is in the reader's faces.
This is why, I tagged this as I'm sorry i read this book.
But, yeah, kudos, whatever to Stephen King for scaring the crap out of readers' wits.
The person she thinks she might be seeing--well it just can't be him....can it?Then the starving dog shows up-and as things get gross, King proves again that he has a great ability to write the thoughts, emotions, and viewpoints of dogs (I dare you not to pity this poor beast a little).
Or the way she finally frees herself (some of the most gory stuff King's ever written)...
All of the horror in this book is very real, including one last bit of terror to overcome after finally winning her gory freedom.
Not necessarily handcuffed to the bedpost with only our dead spouse for company, but wondered what we would do if we were trapped and our life was at stake.
There is edge-of-the-seat suspense, psychological horror as well as blood, stomach-turning horror, a hint of the supernatural, abuse, and mental illness.The story could have ended at a satisfying place, but King chose to add a third section, which took the tale somewhere else, somewhere even darker.
I was surprised to see that it is not one of King's most popular books but it is an unusual topic and not his typical kind of horror story.
This is the lowest rating I've ever given a Stephen King book.
Overall, the story was good and entertaining.
I think if this book was trimmed in half and read as a novella like The Body or The Shawshank Redemption, then we have a winner!
Unfortunately, I think Mr. King was trying to pull more out of this story than was really necessary, making it for a bad read.I do look forward to the movie, as they won't have time to dive into the unnecessary details and just show the plot, which is good in its own right!
