https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31268.The_Aquitaine_Progression
I'd never heard of this book before picking it up, and it was surprisingly good.
The plot was good and the writing kept you interested throughout, although the book reminded me a lot of the movie "National Treasure".
Some points I found myself saying, "puhhlllleeeeaaaase", but then again, I find almost all fiction books that way, so I may be more critical than most.
Suffice to say, if you like the movie "National Treasure" or you are a huge Robert Ludlum fan, then you will enjoy this book.
3 stars, but 4 if you're not so critical.
This was by far one of the worst novels I've ever read.
The main character was not particularly likeable, the plot was not only excessively complicated but boring, and the "love story" was as dry as an overdone turkey.
I've read cookbooks that were more engaging than this book.
For those of you who have started this monstrous tome and are now looking for encouragement to continue: stop.
The last 500 pages are as tedious as the first 100.
I only finished it because I'm doing that 2015 reading challenge and needed a book over 500 pages.
Joel Converse is a Lawyer who just happened to come across a conspiracy(Code name "Aquitaine") that involves retired generals from around the world and their dedicated soldiers that are aiming at world domination by means of chaos and world violence.
In chaotic times, the military will be needed to control chaos and thats where the Generals come in and take over.one country at a time.
While Joel is investigating this conspiracy, His cover gets blown and he is a living target by Aquitaine.
This book is a long(a plus plus IMO)intense Spy story.
Ludlum stuffed ALOT in this book and true fans will stick with it.
I believe there are ten more books I have left to read.
Its Ludlum so you have the action and suspense and the plot twists that are standard in his works.
In Aquataine you have this organization wanting to take over the world...this is also very standard in a Ludlum work.
One thing that really got me into this novel was the main character Joel Converse.
Converse is not a spy or assassin who works for the CIA, or the State department, or Naval intelligence.
Joel is manipulated by people in the government to bring down the evil Aquataine from within.
A few days ago I got myself a big old red hardcover of this book, and since the dust jacket was missing I decided to go into it without knowing what it was about at all. I'm really glad I did, because this book was one of the most exciting ones I've read in a long time. Every page of it was a build-up to the suspense and it was near-impossible to put down.
Interesting, fast paced, slightly on the paranoia side where x WW2 Generals try to takeover the world and a smart NY lawyer called Converse & some M15 agents save the day. Not totally unbelievable.
The Aquitaine Progression.
DAMN YOU LUDLUM.
Now the smuggness of fame and riches makes the loyal readers wait TWO YEARS between book.
Going to the locale COLES book store and ordering a copy.
Now its like release, buy, read, and start waiting for the next release two years ahead.
I was able to start going back and devouring Ludlum's first novels.The Aquitaine Progression the world domination by fucked up ex generals.
Perfect for the wanting and waiting Ludlum lover.I began to love how Ludlum intermixed nationalities and religious characters throughout his novels.Taught plenty of geo-political backgrounding for a neophile into politics.
I read this when it was a fairly new best seller, back in 1984-5.
It was the first action thriller I had ever read and I was blown away.
Though I haven't read very many similar movies over the years, I was curious whether I would still feel the same way, given all the movies of similar style I have seen in the meantime, including several Ludlum films (the Bourne series).
I enjoyed reading it the second time (remembering virtually nothing from the first reading), but as I suspected, the level of angst and suspense was much less than the first time I read it, simply because of having been desensitized by exposure to so much of the genre on film in the interveneing years.
Another attempt at world domination. The World saved from the fanatical Generals by an ex-Vietnam hero and now world class lawyer Mr Converse, despite the fact he has a mental block where languages other than English are concerned and spends most of his time in Europe (not England). I'm sure it won't spoil the book to say that the world carries on and there is a happy ending, despite it happening at the very last minute. Great stuff.
finally got the nerve to pick up another ludlum novel;and i find out that he was still bashing adolf and his ilk in this bookp471: ...finding the shadows and letting them envelope him.p689: ...and reached into his pocket for some kind of small, multifaceted tool. (hmm, must be a hexagonal key wrench)
Had read this book during college days. Enjoyed the re-read as only outline had remained after so many years. If we draw parallels of ISIS over middle east, Trump getting elected, the world imagined by generals might still come true
First Ludlum book I read. Do not start this book during Finals Week.
I read it years ago. It was gripping, fascinating and fun.
A little slow to start, but stay with it you'll be glad you did.
However, I find there is a flaw in his writing - the bad guys are simply too good at what they do.
Aquitaine Progression is different in one main respect - the hero of the book is not some superhuman special forces master.
You can't really call the hero of this book, Joel Converse, a regular guy.
When things go bad, he has to find a way to survive using just his wits.If you like conspiracy/spy/suspense novels, this is a good one.
If you like Ludlum novels, I think this is one of his best.
I will never read Ludlum again...Ich werde nie wieder Ludlum lesen...Je ne lirai plus jamais Ludlum...Ik zal nooit opnieuw ludlum lezen....
Redundant to hear things over and over in different languages you may not understand?
What a concept!This book was like an episode of 24 without the clock or Jack Bauer.Ludlum, at least in this book, suffers from diarrhea of the pen/mouth.
Never say in 10 words what you can say in 103.
If you like thrillers, there are better ones than this.
I was bored out of my mind and only read it for a challenge.
Theme: Everyday man gets involved in global plot, only he, without much knowledge of the players, can save the world. I found this hard to read. Assigned myself 2 chapters a day like it was a homework assignment. Basically, it is a good story but the dialog just doesn't do it for me. The relationship with the ex wife is to pat, and the conversations between Converse and Val make me roll my eyes.
Robert Ludlum doing what he does best and hopefully showing modern day thriller and espionage writers how it should be done.Masterfully constructed with a plot line that is held predictable, quite enjoyable. Excellent character and mood building in a book that then literally explodes for the finish.
A nice book to read. Enough pages to keep me busy for a while, especially because I read it as a bedtime book :-)Despite the interesting subject, after page 500 it became tedious and a bit less interesting than the first part of the book. Since I didn't have the possibility to give a half star, I decided to keep it at 3, I didn't think it's good enough for 4.
Joel Converse, an international lawyer out of New York, is recruited to investigate and stop an international conspiracy to take over and rule most of the world by sowing discord to which they’d be the saviors.
Could not put it down. Read it through. Believe this is one of his best. In this day and age anything is possible. Very believable and frightening. Love his books. Would recommend this to anyone who loves a good story. I' m a reader, not a writer.
"The Aquitaine Progression" is one of the gripping and exhilarating novels. Do not get discouraged by the bulk, as it provides optimal story and as well as giving us the depth of information that makes us stick to the book. Must have.
This was an interesting, and fascinating read. It explores how a group of military men try to take over most of the governments of the world. Read to figure out how they try. There is a lot of exciting action in this book.
Dense and plodding
Disappointing. Way too long and too many repeated scenarios when an enemy is prepared to stop our hero and he goes "Rambo" on them and gets away. Could have wrapped this up 100 pages ago!
Imagine all of the worst dictators in the world working together to control the world. Is it possible?
Fast-paced, loaded with tension, international intrigue, seemingly endless plot twists, and plenty of action (though not exactly the "non-stop action" that the reviewers for Publishers Weekly and Richmond Times-Dispatch claimed).An international cabal of power-hungry generals (an extreme fictitious example of the "military-industrial complex" that Dwight David Eisenhower warned about?) plots to impose a global militaristic government (Aquitaine) to take over Western democracies via a series of worldwide flase-flag operations, and it's up to protagonist Joel Converse, former U.S. Naval Aviator and Vietnam POW cum international business attorney, to expose and thwart their dastardly conspiracy.
erg spannend, maar ook te langdradig!
Solo lui in una lotta disperata contro la più diabolica e spaventosa congiura dei nostri tempi.Ludlum è una garanzia per questo genere di thriller ambientati nel mondo dei servizi segreti, i suoi libri sono sempre ben documentati e strutturalmente ben progettati, non ci sono falle e l'autore cerca sempre di tenere il lettore sulle spine e ottimizza i colpi di scena in modo di non annoiare mai durante la lettura.
Come la maggior parte dei romanzi di Ludlum, il palcoscenico della vicenda è il mondo stesso, per un romanzo che non vedi l'ora di finire.
Ludlum, come dico sempre è il maestro di questo genere.
This daring, ambitious and meticulously executed plan hits a bump when a former POW and current attorney in international law, Joel Converse, is brought in to expose the generals.
A string of false charges, thanks to a compromised Surete, Interpol and almost every law-upholding agency in Europe makes him a pariah, a fugitive running from everyone and able to trust no-one.
With her resourcefulness he finally manages to make contact with the few people in Washington who he can trust and the generals' plan is thwarted at the eleventh hour.
