https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9542311-packing-for-mars
I needed to have tissues handy while reading Mary Roach’s latest.
Mary Roach has had that effect on me before.
She seems to write with actual glee when reporting on the frequently vomitous results of weightlessness, and her tales of head-case astronauts playing gruesome practical jokes while in orbit had me weeping with laughter.Yet through all the laughter there is considerable payload to be had in Roach’s books.
=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal and Twitter pagesOther Mary Roach books we have enjoyed, in case you missed the links in the review-----Grunt -----Gulp-----Spook-----StiffAugust 21, 2016 - A recommendation from the intrepid Henry B.
Space…the final frontier:  where intrepid heroes break free from the mortal bonds of Mother Earth to experience such singular marvels as:1. Fecal popcorning (definition forthcoming);2. Condom-shaped urinal devices (with different sizes for, um, different sizes); 3. Weightless Flight Regurgitation Phenomenon (Hint: turns out gravity is a vital part of both swallowing food and keeping it locked down in the tummy); 4. The pleasures, subject to NASA regulations, of Zero-G copulation; and5. The breat
Light-hearted yet detailed, Roach navigates her material with a high degree of deft and provides information on a range of topics in a manner that is easily digestible (unlike some of the space food discussed).
Ms. Roach provides fascinating information on numerous topics, both scientific and practical, highlighting the challenges of space exploration.
In it, Mary Roach sums up her attitude towards space exploration, while responding to those that argue that the money spent on such luxuries a manned excursion to Mars would be better spent on the ground.
Mary Roach takes a light hearted but fascinating look at all the research and projects that go into putting and keeping people in space.
This isn’t about the rockets or the life support systems, it’s about the seemingly more mundane stuff like hygiene, the effects of isolation, long-term health risks, time management, safety devices, nutrition and human waste disposal.
(Seriously, there’s a lot of poop in this book.)While reading it, I kept thinking of the argument that’s been made that putting people into space is dangerous and wasteful.
Martians eagerly awaiting our arrival! Don't they look thrilled? I have doubts this will ever happen. I don't see us going to Mars anytime soon. There are too many issues. The odds are stacked against us. But who knows what the future brings? One day our great-great-great-grandchildren might live on Mars. Now my question is, what happens when humans destroy Mars? Where do we  fail  explore next?For all you Mars enthusiasts out there, check out this documentary- The Big Think, Should We Go to Mar
Martians eagerly awaiting our arrival!
  Don't they look thrilled?
  I have doubts this will ever happen. I don't see us going to Mars anytime soon. There are too many issues. The odds are stacked against us. But who knows what the future brings? One day our great-great-great-grandchildren might live on Mars. Now my question is, what happens when humans destroy Mars? Where do we  fail  explore next?For all you Mars enthusiasts out there, check out this documentary- The Big Think, Should We Go to Mars? It's brilliant. Kevin Fong is in it. *fangirl noises*
I like the idea of space sex having to be a threesome.Why the Space Program Costs so Much.
I did actually want to know about toilet facilities in space, but not two-chapters worth of knowledge.
NASA could raise only one objection to women in space which obviously must have been solved by now, as there are female astronauts, that urine droplets do not separate from the genitals and pubic hair 'cleanly' as they do in men.
So essentially the whole space program would be much more cost-effective if women were astronauts and men, unless they were quite little, stayed home and looked after the babies.
This was a fascinating trip. Really. I learned a lot about seals, black bears, dolphins, rats, dogs and chimps. En route I also learned something about astronauts and their way of life in space. And this kind of life is not at all what I had imagined even in my wildest dreams. Let me warn you, if you've ever fantasized about taking a vacation in space, you should read this book first. The comfort in a space hotel is basic, even if you paid billions of dollars for a 5-twinkling-star hotel. If yo
En route I also learned something about astronauts and their way of life in space.
The comfort in a space hotel is basic, even if you paid billions of dollars for a 5-twinkling-star hotel.
If you consider yourself a hygienic person, you don't want to book a space hotel.
If you love a well-prepared meal, you don't want to visit space either.
Couples that want to make love in space, should consider bringing a third person to help out.
Also, delivering a baby in space is not something you want to do, however awesome it sounds.
However, willingness to take on the scatological is just part of her hook; she integrates information about the program in general as well as Earth-based research supporting it.I learned a lot more of the early space program than I expected, usually palatable due to Roach’s inclusion of either direct interview or historical quotes from astronauts and scientists.
A note for those who like accuracy in titles: much in the book does not specifically has to do with Mars missions, just issues regarding living in space.The book had an extra impact of nostalgia back when I read this–it was close to the last shuttle launch.
As Mary Roach discovers, it’s possible to preview space without ever leaving Earth.
Fat folks can do a little slimming and science at the same time!Leaving aside the Donner-Party-in-Space horrors of the clueless and thin, Mary Roach's delight of a book is packed with interesting and surprising research, her own and others's.
She's funny, she's curious, she's smart, and damn it all, she's married.So she marshals a raft of facts in her quest to know, and impart to us, necessary background information and bizarre little side-trails of information about the quest of the US and (now) Russian governments to put and keep humans in space.
Fascinating and well considered. Lots of gross facts about conditions in outer space. Space travel does not resemble Star Trek at this time. I don't want to go to Mars personally and I'm traumatized by the concept of the impending voyage at our current level of technology, but I relish the idea of some other  poor soul  dreamer willing to endure the trip. Listened to on audible narrated by Sandra Burr. I thought she did a good job.4 StarsEdited to Add: Listened to the Audio version.
But otherwise, I was mostly oblivious.I suppose it was not until Nasa announced that the shuttle flights were coming to an end, that I began to get truly interested in our trips to space.
I tramp outside at all hours, in freezing weather, cursing heavy cloud cover, just hoping to catch a glimpse of a fast moving light in the sky.I am a huge fan of Roach's writing style and her need to always look at the strange side of life.
And yes, there is an entire chapter devoted to how to poop in space.Mary Roach has certainly captured the magic and wonder in this book.
Her book is overflowing with bodily functions: vomit, body odor, pooping/peeing, and sex in space.
We are talking an entire chapter per topic!
Sure, dinner may come out of a tube, but at least you can gawk out the window at Earth while you eat it.As I alluded above, I attended an event with Mary hosted by the Space Center Lecture Series.* This being Houston, the crowd was full of NASA employees and aerospace contractors.
And her curiosity is so great that she started interviewing her interviewer – who was John Charles, a NASA employee and a source featured in the book.
But then she gets into her stride when she starts talking about the sorts of things you’ve always wondered about space flight but were too afraid to ask.
I was telling her about the difficulties of defecating in space and she said, “Why would anyone want to know about that?” Her saying this stopped me in my tracks.
However, this isn’t really about space travel, it is about putting people in remarkably inconvenient situations and then watching to see how they cope.
By reading this book, you will gain a treasure trove of trivia, ranging from astronaut food, defecation, odors, nausea, to the earliest, non-human astronauts who were shot up into space on rockets.
You will learn the real reason why women were not enlisted as astronauts in the early days of NASA, which turns out to be the exact same reason why Russians did include women astronauts!
Viewing the real-time video feed, Mary Roach writes that the view is a bit like looking at your home planet for the first time from space.Mary Roach tries a little too hard to be super-cutesy, resulting in narration that reads more like flirtatious conversation.
**This review contains profanity and dick and fart jokes.**I've been trying to write this review for what feels like hours now (Its actually been about 10 minutes).
I was going to take a picture, but I'm not sure I want this floating around on the internet for all eternity....Because my notes, you see, are filled with dick and fart jokes.
There's a few that say "Scientist are batshit crazy!" and another one that says "Yeah, I totally shouldn't have looked that up, next time take the authors advice."This thing was so entertaining, and also proved to me just how immature I am...
If you're looking for a fun non-fiction about space/astronauts I would recommend it!With that said, be warned that pooping in space is a big problem and you'll learn about it in length!
I remember this well, we had to learn all about rockets and space travel.
When we were to reach the end of all the information, we were going to have a test on what we learned.
I wonder if they’re still around?Anyway, I decided that person was going to be me because, at the time, I thought I really wanted to go to space.
I studied my sixth grade butt off, and much to the dismay of all the geeky boys in my class I aced that test.
Love Mary Roach, but I didn't find this as entertaining as some of her other books. I got a few fun factoids to share with my family, so I guess that's a win.
And those weird things seem to focus A LOT on bodily functions.I wish we spent more time on how bad the food was, how hard it would be to store enough food and oxygen and more about the psychology of long duration flights.
Yuppers.And yet, I'm surprised we didn't discuss more about the massive engineering feat it would be to store enough food and water and oxygen for a THREE YEAR voyage to Mars.I feel that Mary Roach spent SO MUCH time on all the "gross parts" of space flight, she really didn't touch enough on the parts I wanted - what is growing food in space like?
I will read anything by Mary Roach. Of course, my favorite parts in this book were about farting and pooping in a space suit. Hilarious.
Roach writes that she was inspired to "think about a trip to Mars and what it would be like to spend two years trapped inside sterile, man-made structures with no way to escape one's work and colleagues and no flowers or trees or sex and nothing to look at outside the window but empty space or, at best, reddish dirt.
Isolation and confinement are issues of no small concerns to space agencies."With persistence and humor, Roach takes us through the testing of man, equipment, food, etc.
And a longer section on the choices of foods, the rationale behind them, and their successes and failures.I learned a lot.
3.5 stars***I'm reposting this review in honor of Neil Armstrong (August 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012) who died today at the age of 82.  "That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind." --Neil Armstrong  Well...that was...interesting. This book is so thoroughly researched. The amount of painstaking detail used to describe the epic sublime of space right down to the microscopic level of doing your "business" in zero gravity is impressive to say the least. As a side-effect though, I did f
Don't get me wrong -- I applaud Mary Roach in her unapologetic approach to getting the details right, because this is a side of space exploration and the life of an astronaut we've never seen before (at least not in such unexpurgated glory and triumph).
In other words, this is everything you ever thought you might like to know about traveling into the final frontier (and some things you could have happily gone your whole life without ever knowing, trust me on that) but were afraid to ask.This book is chock full of interesting tidbits as well as several mind-blowing facts, all marinated in Roach's signature wry humor and breezy writing style.
With Packing for Mars, Mary Roach takes the reader on a journey through the bizarre history of space travel and the toll it takes on the human body and psyche.
There’s a lot of humor in here and I feel like Burr just couldn't portray the subject matter in a right way.It really hurts to hit Mary Roach with such heavy criticism because I can tell she was passionate about the subject material.
However, as a casual consumer of space travel history, this book couldn't grab me and keep my attention for longer than the odd chapter.
[4 Stars] This book was incredibly fascinating although a bit disturbing from time to time.
I thoroughly enjoyed it even though I thought it was a bit slow.
I wish the book had covered more about actual missions and what not in the past and a little more about the history of such, but overall the information presented was really interesting.
If you want to read a non-fiction book about the oddities of space travel, this is one to consider.
When you think about space travel and exploration, nobody ever thinks about the poop bags.
This book was interesting and eye-opening about a lot of the mundane minutiae of going into space, made (slightly) less mundane by Mary Roach's writing about it, but what really interested me was all of the ways that gravity allows us to live - and what happens to us when gravity is taken out of the equation.
I didn't find this book quite as funny as I've found Roach in the past, but could just be personal preference.
NASA, the organization that can write entire books about the seemingly simplest things, ignores the subject.
Even the urge to pee isn't present in zero gee until the bursting point - literally a point at which the urethra could be constricted by the bladder, so urination has to be scheduled to avoid problems.There are more exhaustive books on the subject & many of them are in her bibliography, but I doubt there is a more readable introduction to the complexity of what faces NASA as they prepare for the Mars mission, a culmination of every space effort to date.
Actually, I bet I think she was really funny if I heard her talk, because potty humor IS my type of humor, but it just doesn’t seem to translate for me in her books.That said, she researches these absolutely fascinating topics from angles that no one else would, and I totally appreciate that.
How could you not want to know?If there is anything I learned in this book (and actually I learned A LOT so props to the author) its that astronauts have spent a lot of time living like filthy animals for science, and we are ALL better for it.If you are looking for something a little strange, informative, and easily translatable to fodder for all sorts of awkward holiday-party small-talk then I really suggest this book.
Mary Roach has made quite a career writing quirky, irreverent books on some of the weirder corners of science.
She's covered corpses, the afterlife, sex, and now space.
So all the cool subjects.
As it turns out, space exploration is a rich and varied subject.
Every aspect of life in space has to be carefully, exhaustively researched beforehand, after all.
But as with her other books, Roach writes with such an infectious delight at what she's learned that I was completely riveted.
Sure, I have more than a passing interest in the space program, and that probably helped.
I had NO IDEA a book about travel in space would read like a scene from a Judd Apatow movie, but it turns out human waste of many varieties is a big issue for NASA.
Here’s a couple of quotes that illustrate the issue:Gravity facilitates what is known in aerospace waste collection circles as “separation.” Fecal popcorning is the reason Space Shuttle toilets are equipped with rearview mirrors.Women would be more efficient astronauts, but they weren’t included in the early programs because NASA didn’t want to figure out the logistics of female urination.
If any child with the dream of becoming an astronaut read this book we will have a complete shortage of willing candidates very soon.From the impact of gravity on our internal organs, motion sickness, technical malfunctions, early animal experiments and even the impact of space travel on bone density, all showed just how fragile us humans really are.I have always loved this author’s books as she mixes humor and facts in such a way that entertain and informs the reader at the same time.
I generally quite enjoy Mary Roach's books, even though sometimes they are too much information to be read while eating.
(Stiff) So when I saw this one, about one of my favourite things in the world, space travel, I was excited.
Even more so since I'm running a roleplaying game set on Mars right now, although much further along than the first tentative preparations Roach is talking about here.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
