https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4724138-nightingale-wood
Pretty much penniless, she goes to live with her in-laws at The Eagles in Sussex: dour Mr Wither and his obsession with watching his money in the stock market; Mrs Wither, who disapproves of anyone who isn't staid, plain and "sensible" (which Viola certainly isn't); Madge, the eldest daughter who, in her late-30s, still finds men and love and all that nonsense disgusting and prefers being one of the lads up at the club and training her dog, Polo; and Tina (Christina), who is now in her mid-thirties, has tried several careers but lost interest in them all, and has a crush on the young chauffeur, Saxon.Into this gloomy house comes Viola, who is herself not very intelligent, nor does she have great depth of feeling.
like jane austen with icky people.this book tends toward a dim view of the human race, which is quite fine with me.
this is like the anti-romance novel, for the most part.
but not just romance of the boy-girl kind--she writes quite clear-eyed about money and its corrosive effects; about living (or not-quite-living) in a stultifying society; about how small-town life can make a person, well, small.
only the natural world gets a pass.i'd like to listen to this again sometime--Gibbons' social critique is sharp and often very funny, and she has clear respect for her readers.
A very funny, very smart novel about upper-middle-class life in late 1930's England. Two families, separated by a woodland where The Hermit, the town drunk and squatter lives, come together in unlikely ways when Viola, the Withers' widowed daughter-in-law, arrives and chaos starts brewing. Lots of wit, some tongue-in-cheek moments and just enough sadness to make all of the lovely bits sting just a bit more. If you liked Cold Comfort Farm you will probably like this one. For the longer review, please go here:http://www.bubblews.com/news/8023613-...
Viola is soon lonelier and more miserable than she can comprehend; and with nothing to look forward to, and nothing to think about except the one other large house in the area, where an extremely wealthy and rather handsome young man named Victor Spring lives with his mother and his cousin, gives flashy and dashing house parties, and is the romantic fantasy of every shop girl in Sible Pelden and Chesterbourne.
I read this book when on a Stella Gibbons kick, after reading Cold Comfort Farm.
She's a really interesting figure to me, Gibbons, because she wrote SO much, but is pretty much only known for Cold Comfort Farm, which is, of course, delightful.
But she was a prolific writer, and just jumped all over the place with her books.
That's what this book is all about: class, interest, keeping money in your family, or at least keeping your nobility, and coldness.
The coldness of a hard family, and how the characters try to find love to warm them up again.
Really interesting.
If this hadn't been written by Stella Gibbons, I think I'd have rated it more highly.
There are some delightfully cutting remarks, and some pleasant enough scene-setting.
But. Part of the problem is that none of the characters are particularly sympathetic - or, at least, every scene that might elicit some sympathy for one person or another is followed by an antidote.
That can work well enough if there is a thorough-going villain against whom everyone can unite, but Mr Wither, set up initially as a domineering mysogynistic puritanical Mr Punch, is sadly marginalised.

Nightingale Wood is a really delightful Cinderella type tale from the author who of course is better known for having brought us Cold Comfort Farm.
Viola Withers is just twenty one, newly widowed of a much older husband, she finds herself obliged to go and live with her in laws at The Eagles in Essex.
Not far away from The Eagles, and another rung or two up the social ladder are the Springs, Mrs Spring, her bookish niece Hetty and her son Victor, handsome and full of confidence, he is the undisputed Prince Charming of the neighbourhood.
Such a wonderful introduction for me into the work of Stella Gibbons.
I loved the storytelling in this book.
Apart from the Cinderella like romance developing in the centre of the story there were many side plots and interesting emotional connections.
Gibbons has a talent for describing a scene in the most poetic of terms and then abruptly bringing the reader very sharply down to earth with a comic observation.
What was also very pleasing was the tidying away of all the little subplots in satisfying conclusion towards the end of the story.
Cannot wait to read more from this author.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra: On either side of Nightingale Wood through one idyllic year in the late 1930s, hearts beat and minds scheme, as the dowdy Wither family tries to compete with the glittering Springs. Bookish Tina Wither is in love with Saxon, her father's handsome and aloof chauffeur. Her shopgirl sister-in-law, Viola, has fallen for Victor Spring, the lord of the manor. And Madge is in love with a dog.
There were one or two young men up at the Club whom Madge enjoyed banging on the back on somewhat slight excuses." But to my view the best parts of Nightingale Wood are those moments of amused resignation its author directs to the limits everyone runs on the altruistic circuit: "But Viola rather spoiled her chances with Catty and the Aunts by pretending that she was so happy at The Eagles.
But she made it so clear that she had a pleasant home already, and did not need advice or comfort, that the Aunts and Catty lost a little of their interest in her.
I read this because I'm crazy about Gibbons's more famous novel: Cold Comfort Farm. Seriously, I'm in love with that book. This one I liked quite a bit, but it wasn't nearly as outright satirical and laugh-out-loud-in-public funny as Cold Comfort Farm. Nightgale Wood is entertaining, well written, a bit cliche, but Gibbons took the stereotypical novel and gave it a bit of self-awareness. The story knows it follow the standard storyline, and the voice points out its own silliness. Very entertaining. Didn't love it quite as much as CCF, but still enjoyed it.
This is my first review on Goodreads rather than Shelfari so lets see how it goes! NIghtingale Wood is very different from Cold Comfort Farm, not as funny, but a lovely little read with an wonderful story. It is an excellent "pick me up" book for those suffering from set-backs -- such as Shelfari closing down and past reviews not moving to Goodreads.
A particular favourite in Nightingale Wood was her description of how the bookish Hetty ''was eating, rather than reading, large slabs of a very thin book of contemporary verse each page having a thick wodge of print, without capital letters, starting at the top and running nearly to the bottom.'  As a Cinderella retelling, Gibbons has taken the story in a slightly cynical direction, perhaps requiring the qualification 'they lived happily enough ever after' in its conclusion, but her version still has a wit and a sparkle all of its own.
I’m afraid I hurt your feelings.Viola: Well, you did rather, but it’s all right now.Victor: Sweet of you…(Viola wonders when he’ll start kissing her again.
The satire, for this section of the story, is beautifully done.However, that’s not the only Cinderella tale Gibbons includes in her novel: she also offers an inversion of it.
;) The one aspect I truly loved about this book was how Gibbons gave her readers the chance to see into the thoughts of every character that appeared in her story.
I wish I had the time to write a longer review, because there's so much I loved and want to share about Nightingale Wood...but I don't.
Hetty and Tina are main characters in their own right, and I enjoyed their stories tremendously, Tina's in particular.Written and published just before the outbreak of WWII, there's also a sort of defiance to Nightingale Wood, as if Gibbons is daring the reader to fault her for writing something so charming while the world is beginning crumble.
By the last 1/4 of the book I could sense Stella Gibbons running out of steam, and a certain important event that occurred toward the end seemed like it only happened because she had no idea where the story was going and needed something to shake up the plot- But then nothing came of it, and some characters' fates and the choices they made in relation to them didn't seem to match up with what was said of them earlier in the story.
Her "Cold Comfort Farm" is one of my faves, and this was more of the same.A few samples-"No one was surprised to hear that Saxon and Tina had been carrying on ever since the summer.
The first person who had seen Tina having a driving lesson in the summer had gone home to his wife and said that if something didn't happen there, his name wasn't what it was." "Twice in half an hour, Hetty had held up Miss Barlow's plans, and prevented her from moving as quickly as possible on to the next pleasure.
Miss Barlow liked her life to be a steady movement towards pleasure.

funny moments, but overall, it seemed like work to read it.
not funny enough.
i usually finish books even when i don't like them (my OCD - but am trying to get over it, and stop forcing myself to finish books that don't grab my fancy...far too many great books out there to find.)i will read "Cold Comfort Farm" as that rec'd much more impressive ratings and reviews.(this apparently is based on "Cinderella".
but if anyone's interested in alternate tellings of fairy tales, try "confessions of an ugly stepsister" by greg maguire ("wicked") - one of the best books i've ever read...imaginitive and clever take on Cinderella.) much better than wicked, son of a witch, etc.
Everybody got to be purely his/herself, all the way through, and come to their own versions of a happy ending.
Stella Gibbons had a gift for drawing flawed, fully human characters and making them lovable despite their inevitable snobbery, sourness, or materialism.
Almost all of them have a core of some sort of decency or goodness that makes you want the best for them.It is quite disconcerting to read the epilogue and realize that the book was written in 1938 and the author had no knowledge of what was coming, despite the characters reading about war machines in the newspapers.

Effervescent and charming. A glittering British country life adaptation of Cinderella that satirizes the class divisions of pre-WWII English life and blithely demonstrates the forces that began to erode the bulwarks even before the onslaught of the war. I only wish it wasn't marred by characters expressing the casual anti-Semitism and racism that was so typical of the era. Luckily the references are slight and, given the overall ironic tone of the novel, not nearly as offensive as Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day.
So, while this book was interesting, it had waay to many things wrong with it to make me happy.
So, Victor asks Viola to run away with him (not married) she says no, she's better than that, and then he realizes he loves her and asks her to marry him and everything's happy and okay.
The characters all felt semi interesting, but were really empty of any true humanity that they stuck on the page.
Plus, most were all so air headed there was nothing to relate to.
Loved it. Loved it. What a delicious read. The predicament of the unmarried woman.Reading about the 1930's in a book written in the 1930's, with references to fascism, Hitler and anti-semitism. How different would the world look just 10 years later. I could not help but wonder if Stella Gibbons would have sent Saxon to war.What about Victor?Would she have made Madge a WREN? Would Hetty perhaps have served at Bletchley Park?Oh I wish she would have written a sequel....
Not perhaps as 'laugh out loud'-funny as Cold Comfort Farm, but still a great comedy about the bored English upper class living in the big houses in the countryside. And I quite liked Viola (though I can sense she is not everyone's cup of tea)!
Not quite the light, charming read I had expected - but I won't complain about more nuanced, complex characters and a more interesting story. I love Gibbons dry wit and wry observations re: class and society and human nature, etc.
Tried to make myself keep reading this, since I'd purchased it to listen to from Audible, but I just can't do it. There's absolutely no plot to speak of, and I'm almost halfway done listening, and it just drones on and on and on...
This was a delight to read. Gibbons has a very elegant and beautiful writing style and I love her caricatures. Set against the backdrop of a fairy tale storyline, the novel gives a humorous commentary about class and prejudice.
La verdad, pensé que me iba a gustar más de lo que lo ha hecho. No llega a tener el sentido del humor de Wodehouse ni la fina ironía de Austen, aunque el ambiente recuerda a ambos. Entretenido, sin más.
