https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16115.A_Dance_to_the_Music_of_Time
Summer is a season when the nature is at its prime, it is a time of ripening fruits…The main charact
I know I'm in a minority when I say that A Dance to the Music of Time is the greatest novel in the English language, but what the hell.
I don't think it's as simple as Powell transferring pieces of Nick's and Isobel's story to these other couples.
It's an indirect way of presenting things, but Powell loves the indirect approach.
It's astonishing how much feeling he manages to compress into that single word, "immediate".Near the end of Hearing Secret Harmonies, Nick, now an old man, meets Jean for the last time.
While I enjoyed the 1st Movement of this adventuresome work, I found that Powell's writing truly came into its own more fully in this volume.
The eccentricities revealed among our narrator's acquaintances are so well fleshed out and characters introduced early on now become full developed people.
(p 689, p 217 of bk 6)And that seems to be the voyage of Nick's self-discovery in this 2nd movement of Powell's work....he is learning more, remembering more, putting pieces together in the puzzle of his life.
While Casanova's Chinese Restaurant (this movement's middle novel) is my favorite so far, the next, The Kindly Ones, was the most surprising, with its intimate look at an episode of Nick's childhood (yes, it felt a bit Proustian) and with a whole page of startling "I"'s that Nick finally gives us.
As he says in an understatement in this movement's first novel, At Lady Molly's: For my own part, I always enjoy hearing the details of other people's lives, whether imaginary or not...Why is Casanova's Chinese Restaurant my favorite so far?
It is a state from which all objectivity has been removed."― Anthony Powell, At Lady Molly's“Wisdom is the power to admit that you cannot understand and judge the people in their entirety.” ― Anthony Powell, A Dance to the Music of Time: 1st Movement The Second Movement (**SUMMER**) contains the following three novels: 1.
At Lady Molly's (A Dance to the Music of Time, #4)  -- read March 26, 20162.
The Kindly Ones (A Dance to the Music of Time, #6)  -- read May 3 , 2016I read these three novels starting in late March 2016 and ending May 3, 2016.
While the first 3 books, which make up the 1st Movement, deal with our narrator’s early life at school and young adulthood the 2nd Movement deals more with the various characters as they mature, their careers, marriages, infidelities and, for some, divorces in the years leading up to WW2.
Powell portrays the changes in society during the years between the two wars with such vivid clarity that the reader is also drawn back in time and feels familiar there, that we too have seen those changes, have lived them, have suffered through them.
Since listening to the the First Movement of A Dance to the Music of Time a couple of months ago, I've been looking forward to returning to Nick Jenkins' world in London between the wars.
For me the most significant weakness is that the female characters are (with a few exceptions) neither as interesting nor as well-developed as the male characters.
However, I'm still very much looking forward to the Third Movement, which takes Nick and the others into World War II.
It would be wrong to say nothing happens, because things do happen: people get married, they have affairs, they die or commit suicide, and Nick is constantly meeting people he met in earlier books at the most unexpected times, and the intricate web of social connections Powell has been laying for six books now is becoming as big and interconnected and drama-ful as your wankiest Facebook friend.
He'll sometimes tell us what he thinks of someone, then admit that he later learned he was wrong, but we're still seeing the character through his eyes.The series matures in this volume, as Nick does, but Powell never stops injecting humor into it.
The series is just fascinating. Both for the characters which whirl in and out of the narrator's life and for the glimpse it gives into a world which no longer exists. This movement takes Nick into adulthood as he navigates life post academia in the world prior to WW I until the brink of WW II. In some ways "nothing" happens. In other ways it's the story of everything. It's at once a foreign world to my experience and a reflection of the kind of universal interactions we all have as we make our way into the land of adulthood.
It's not until the sixth novel in the sequence that the narrator speaks at all directly of his own childhood, and even then it's not so much for the sake of introspection as to anticipate and make sense of public events.
While he captures the most minute details of his friends out in society, the milestones of his own life are noted concisely in passing, usually without a hint of passion.
Something happens, but then the meaning of the event is not immediately clear, nor is the narrator necessarily even sure how he feels about it.
Years later, usually in conversation with an old friend or acquaintance, he may retrospectively stumble on his own emotions.
I read the first 23 pages of "At Lady Molly's" 3 times before I got on - and then I couldn't stop.
The secret, as has been the secret to every one of these, was....if only I had known, Widmerpool was only 4 or 5 pages beyond my stumbling point.
Widmerpool, Widmerpool, he totally deserves a song, a tribute of some kind.
It makes me wonder...who is the Widmerpool of my life?
Or only the blessed?The rest of this went by in a flash.
Much of the emotional and social re-arranging took place here.

And who could put up for long with the formal, precise to the point of finicky, prose-style they cultivated and which the first person narrator, Nick, book critic and would-be novelist, has honed to perfection?And yet, Powell's writing has the ability to transport the reader entirely to this world and engage us in the preoccupations of his characters as they move on from their school and university days (described in the First Movement) to their twenties as they establish careers and consider marriage, while the Second World War looms.
This leisurely pace kind of fits the novel, which deals with the passage to time through the life of the protagonist, Jenkins.
The key to the enjoyment of this lengthy series is to immerse yourself in the characters.
Through Jenkins the reader is let into a rarified world that is usually closed to outsiders.
It’s the privileged world of a white man in England in the 1900’s, who knows the right people.
He has a unique vantage point to view the crumbling of upper class privilege that occurred between the two world wars.This makes the novel sound ponderous, but it’s not.
It’s a pleasure to spend time in his world.
he meets his future wife and marries but doesn't say much about her though has a great passage about marriage on page 97 of the first book; WWII is on the horizon, ominous...
Less so, where others are concerned.""Truth Unveiled by Time" [ a small bronze]If one hasn't any self-discipline, something of the sort unfortunately has to be applied from the outside.That odd feeling of excitement began to stir within me always provoked by news of other people's adventures in love; accompanied as ever by a sense of sadness, of regret, almost jealousy, inward emotions that express, like nothing else in life, life's irrational dissatisfactions.I know you are married to him, and marriage gives everyone all sorts of special rights where complaining is concerned.Do you too suffer in your domestic life--of which you speak with such a wealth of disillusionment--from the particular malaise I describe: the judgment of terrible silences?This glimpse of him, then total physical removal, brought home, too, the blunt postscript of death.There is probably something wrong about thinking you've realized your ideal--in art or anywhere else.

Nick, on the other hand, marries Isobel but there is very little about this, Isobel making only occasional appearances to visit other more significant characters such as Matilda Moreland when she goes into hospital to have a baby, an episode that also allows for an encounter with Widmerpool who is having treatment for unmentionable ailments that he is only too happy to talk about.
In the year before the war, Nick visits the Morelands in the country and along with Templer they go to dinner at Sir Magnus Donners' stately home.
There's even a brief discussion of Woolf's recently published Orlando.But the second half fared much better -- engagements made, engagements broken off; affairs ended, affairs began; old characters popping up in unlikely places.Uneven, to be sure, but the second half was enjoyable enough to make up for having to slog through the first half.Casanova's Chinese Restaurant -- 4/5This one started out almost as slow as the previous novel, but also started out quite differently from any of the others (so far).
In this movement we learn in what appears to be a transitional sentence that Nick meets the girl he knows he will marry.
We will learn that she is confined in a nursing hospital, along with another character’s wife, where Nick will meet up with Widmerpool after a few years of being out of touch and that’s mostly it as far as she goes (for now).
Some new characters show up, some featured figures from the first movement depart.
As the third novel ends, Nick is looking to get in the military as a new European war is arriving.
"A Dance to the Music of Time" is Anthony Powell's sequences of twelve novels which follow the narrator Nicholas Jenkins and his social circle from youth in the period following World War I to old age and death in the 1970s.
Jenkins' reminisces are inspired by Poussin's classic painting where the four Seasons dance with arms linked, and this second trio of novels do represent the summer of life.
The latter two novels in this part of the sequence are especially finely crafted, and the outbreak of World War II in THE KINDLY ONES put me in such suspense that I felt driven on to the third movement.
The first two books deal with the second half of the thirties, the events in the back ground forming the lead-in to the Second World War. In The Kindly Ones, war breaks out, though remaining comparatively distant from everyday British life for the period sometimes known as 'the Phoney War'.
The Kindly Ones doesn't seem to be an ending, more a transition between the peacetime and wartime novels.The title refers, of course, to the euphemistic term used by the Greeks to refer to the Furies, supernatural beings who avenged crimes against the family.
The name was often used to refer to violent women, and I believe was applied to the suffragettes by their opponents.
Unfortunately the library did not have a complete collection of all four volumes of this series, so I had to read the Little, Brown publication for the first two movements, listen to the first two thirds of the third movement on tape, miss the last third of the third movement, and read the fourth movement from the University of Chicago edition.
I learned of this collection through a tribute to Powell's birthday (12/21/1905) on Writer's Almanac and its inclusion on the Seattle Public Library's reading list "British Classics".
As befits the turbulent and increasingly ominous decade in which this sequence of novels is set (the 1930's), the "second movement" of Dance to the Music of Time has darker, more complex shadings than the first.
Jenkins -- I am discovering -- is a very careful narrator, and doesn't reveal too much about himself, so part of the fun is finding out more about him, more than he wants to tell us; another enjoyment is the almost Dickensian wealth of eccentric secondary characters, like the raffish Jeavons, or his scatty wife Lady Molly, or the unfortunate embittered music critic Macklintick, or the ominous seeress Mrs. Erdleigh.
Worn out by it all, Jenkins is feeling old and ready to settledown.
'Days of Our Lives' meets Masterpiece theater.'Casanova's Chinese Restaurant' could well be called Powell's introspection onmarriage.
Jenkins marries, but this is mentioned as almost an aside.
Wemeet Moreland, a composer who drags Jenkins over to the Maclinticks, the Mr.a music critic.
There we witness the battling marriage from hell, bothready to strangle each other, yet they can't do without each other.This allows Moreland and Jenkins to philosophize on the institution at length.In 'The Kindly Ones' Powell continues on the intricacies of marriage.
Again Jenkins'wife is rarely mentioned in any insights.
Book 4 At Lady Molly's (★★★★☆)Book 5 Casanova's Chinese Restaurant (★★★★☆)Book 6 The Kindly Ones (☆☆☆☆☆)
Brilliant. This sequence of books is one of the masterworks of the 20th century. Utterly addictive reading
see comments on first movement
My favorite novel.
The central character (Nick Jenkins) is the observer and our guide to this world of middle class and upper class Brits from the pre-World War II period and (apparently) all the way to the 1960s by the last volume.
A 12-volume set, I have finally hit the halfway mark.
One wonders how he kept track of all his characters.
Considering when they were written, he must've used index cards.It is hard for me, however, to keep track of them.
But I do like these books.
They are like taking a long river cruise through British society.
