https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/636454.Plum_Bun
Dreiser is better - more powerful in the end, less susceptible to Victorian plot twists, and less moralistic - but this is good.Weird to say moralistic, given that Plum Bun advertises its lack of moral in the title, but the title is a lie: there are morals galore here, about pride in ancestry and the importance of family and proper behavior and what have you, and they're not subtle.She began to see the conventions, the rules that govern life, in a new light; she realized suddenly that for all their granite-like coldness and precision they also represented fundamental facts; a sort of concentrated compendium of the art of living and therefore as much to be observed and respected as warm, vital impulses.Maybe I should be comparing her to Jane Austen.Passing, which is where a light-skinned black person decides to define herself as white, was of vivid interest to the Harlem Renaissance writers.
Because the focus of the novel is on the personal psychology of characters, as opposed to larger politics affecting society, the book and protagonist might come across as deceptively simple, or even selfish.
Plum Bun: A Novel WIthout a Moral is, though, a pointed critique of anyone who would attempt to call "passing" a simple matter of morality, pride, or confidence--it is a serious work of fiction, worth reading and considering, that sheds real light onto race and gender politics of the early twentieth century.Simply, this may be a book you haven't heard of...but it shouldn't be.
Overly erudite.
Corny ending.
Nothing much really happens in the book.
Its like a time capsule with this young, black, female author struggling for attention and respect both as a woman and as a negro.
I am not describing the plot of the book, I'm stating my perception of how the author came across to me in the telling of the story.
The story itself was not that complex.
A coming of age story of a young woman in the 1920s who attempted to pass and found out she'd rather be who she was.
Her journey was the story.
These names produced some of the most recognizable and justifiable literature in the 20th century.
Stories of jazz, sexuality and freedom bloomed from the minds of these poets and novelists.In a time when ideas pollinized the cities’ streets, very few names could be spotted on the radar and could be etched into time.
Writers like Jessie Redmon Fauset published their works and passed on as if they were the racially passing characters in which they wrote.
Fauset creates a character who in some capacity is both static and dynamic.
She characterizes Angela as a conflicted, naïve woman who will never understand what it is to be true to oneself.
[...]It's wrong for men to have both money and power; they're bound to make some woman suffer" Paulette, 128Obviously this novel was going to discuss race and the emotional as well logistical complexities of a Black person passing for white but I was also pleased that it touched on male privilege and sexism.
I wish schools would require this be read side-by-side with Passing, these two novels are far too often over looked and I think they give a great glimpse into Black lives in the early 20th century/the writers of the Harlem Renaissance.
This novel was published almost 90 years ago, and as such the language and writing style took a bit of getting used to for me.
The major plot device and one of the main themes in the book is passing, but Fauset also deals with gender roles, family, male/female love relationships, the individual vs.
Sometimes it is explicit and sometimes the angle is more subtle, but it always seems to “fit” very well into the narrative and the style.It’s this month’s book at Literary Fiction by People of Color and it’s shaping up to be a good discussion.
Worth a read. I enjoyed Nella Larson's telling of the same story better in Passing and Quicksand.4 out of 5
Just okIt took me a while to get into this book, it was slow going for a while. Forgetting about the countless punctuation and grammatical errors, of which there were a lot, it wasn't all that interesting. I had to make myself keep reading in the hopes that it would get better and it did pick up about half through, but still didn't really grab me. The idea was good, but not the execution.
The main character, Angela Murray, grows up in Philadelphia as a very light-skinned African American, and she learns about passing from her equally light-skinned mother.
It’s also a wonderfully feminist book, since Angela is thrust into a social marketplace where women are bought and sold – not literally, but in essence.
In this way, the book reminds me of novels by Edith Wharton which explore a woman’s longing for freedom within rigid social hierarchies.
I enjoy a good romance, as long as it’s well-written, intelligent, and fair to women.
This is a good novel in many other ways, but it’s also a riveting romance.
Plum Bun was my challenge book of the year.
Plum Bun is about passing, but there's more to it.
Angela grew up with a mother that could pass and this was done occasionally.
I don't think it was because their life was particularly hard, but maybe more because at the turn of the 20th century white people controlled everything.
Angela moves to New York and passes as a white art student.
I think that's where the subtitle fits, "novel without a moral" because in the end Angela didn't lose anything by passing as white.
Read for my Harlem Renaissance class. The marriage plot gets a little blah toward the end, but everything else about this book is so interesting - plot focused on a woman who is passing in NYC in the 1920s/30s, and the complications this creates for her romantic and familial relationships, also while trying to make it as a young artist. Fascinating!
Uneven at times but nonetheless an immensely illuminating novel on race, color, and gender by a major writer of the Harlem Renaissance.
She wishes to live a life of unfettered agency.Virginia, Angela's sister, is bound by her darker skin to identify as black, and so comes to different conclusions as to what makes a happy life since she would never be let into the establishments where Angela and her mother shop in the first place.
Let me explain--The novel is about a young woman named Angela, who, during the Harlem Renaissance, decides that living her life has become all too complicated because of race.
Therefore, she decides that she is going to try "passing" and moves to New York.
I am, however, going to say this is 3-star rating in terms of writing because this moment of "epiphany" from Angela is nothing that should be an epiphany (even in the 1920s when it was written).
Another moment of confusion is when Angela meets Paulette and begins spending time with her.
Its subtitle is “A Novel Without a Moral,” and the book is realistic without being preachy or tragic – in fact, the ending is quite a “happy sigh” moment.Plum Bun is about an African American woman, Angela, who is able to “pass” for white.
After Angela’s parents die, Angela decides to try passing for white in New York City full-time.
Anthony is brooding, mysterious, and inconveniently poor.Romance fans will be quick to figure out early who Angela is going to end up with.
Plum Bun is more of a coming-of-age story than a romance, but there’s plenty of romance to please romance readers and, yes, it does have a happy romantic ending.
PLUM BUN: A Novel Without A Moral. (1928). Jessie Redmon Fauset. ****. This was a novel included in the Library of America’s, “Harlem Renaissance: Five Novels of the 1920s.” It is the story of Angela, the older daughter of Junius and Mattie Murray. Angela’s younger sister was Virginia. This was a colored family, but Mattie and Angela could – and did – pass for white. Mattie and Angela would frequently go out together and visit the “white” stores and places of entertainment in downtown Philadelph
This was a colored family, but Mattie and Angela could – and did – pass for white.
Mattie and Angela would frequently go out together and visit the “white” stores and places of entertainment in downtown Philadelphia (The author was born in Camden County, NJ, just across the river from Philadelphia.) Junius and Virginia, however, were dark skinned negroes and could not accompany them on their trips.
They are exacerbated when her sister Virginia decides to move to New York also.
They maintain their separation; Virginia moves to Harlem, while Angela (who has changed her name to Angele Mory) has an apartment in Greenwich Village.
A young African-American woman moves to New York in the 1920s with two goals on her mind.
I also really, really wished the author hadn't taken the route of creating a woman whose life revolves around her relationships with men (the guy she ended up with was a complete joke, by the way).
So, here is an ambitious, smart and plucky woman, who wants to become a serious artist yet most of the book is focused on the men she meets and loses and finds again!
"It’s wrong for men to have both money and power; they’re bound to make some woman suffer."Jessie Redmon Fauset was mentored by W.E.B. DuBois, and in her turn mentored so many other young writers during the height of the Harlem Renaissance that she earned the nickname "The Midwife" (she was the first person ever to publish Langston Hughes and might have even taught a young James Baldwin in high school).This fascinating person, who was also literary editor of NAACP magazine The Crisis, wrote a novel about race, color, class, and gender in America and subtitled it "A Novel without a Moral." I mostly believe her on that.
In Jessie Redmon Fauset’s second published novel, Plum Bun: A Novel without a Moral (published 1928), one woman struggles to finding her own identity racially and sexually in New York City during the vibrant years of the Harlem Renaissance.Artist Angela Murray is a light-skinned “coloured” woman in the transitional years of the late 1910s and 1920s.
Angela’s story is a coming-of-age story, and in many ways I found it satisfying as a whole because of the intense emotional components developed in the novel as Angela and her sister and their friends aged and experienced the consequences of their choices.
The moral of Plum Bun: A Novel Without a Moral is that passing privilege is only a privilege if you're willing to turn your back on friends, family, and heritage and live a lie.
The American dreams of freedom and individuality are for white people only, and white men in particular, and Angela longs to escape the bonds of race and history and be her own person with her own merits.
Plum Bun is a darkly fascinating and psychologically rich exploration of race in America that's as relevant today as it was in the 1920s.
Angela Murray, older fair skinned daughter of Junius and Mattie Murray does not want to be shut out of the opportunities that white people are able to benefit from with no effort.
Her father is black, and her sister Virginia are brown skinned which means the family members essentially live in different worlds.
Angela moves from Philadelphia to New York City separating herself from her sister after the death of their parents.
In New York she enters a glittering and yet treacherous world and learns many difficult lessons as she moves towards self acceptance at last becoming "at home" with herself.
This book brought me a completely new perspective on white colored people's lives around the 20s.
At first, I found Fauset's writing very simple and dry but as I read on, found out how simply but very precisely she depicts the psychological shifts of the protagonist, Angela.
And this loneliness she cannot overcome wherever she lives - in New York, Paris or even her hometown Philadelphia.
Today, almost a century after this book was written, this same loneliness causes many people to suffer.
As a woman and the similar age myself as Angela, I could empathize with her in so many ways.

Major Fields Prep: 34/133This sentimental passing narrative follows Angela, a young black woman able to "pass" who, after the untimely death of her parents, decides to prioritize her own fortunes over loyalty to her race or to her sister.
She nearly weds a bigot (almost seemed like the backstory of Clare Kendry in Larsen's Passing) who slowly comes to the realization that she would rather maintain the true full life of the black community over the more dull and prejudiced social circles of the elite whites.
The specific struggles of passing as a woman are explored, motivated by the more general pressures toward traditional virtues of womanhood and the institution of marriage.
This book was really engaging but slow in some parts of the story.
Angela or Angél grew up passing as white with her mother in Philadelphia.
However living as a black female and enduring the injustices as a person of color, she decided to leave Philadelphia and move to NY where she would pass as white.
What I hated about Angela which also drew me to want to read more was this insistent idea of having to be with a male, marriage.
There are a lot of surprises in the book which I loved.
This is a must read.
This novel, part of the late 19th/early 20th century's literary treatment of racial passing, is not just that.
Fauset raises questions about both racial and gender identity that she never really answers, and seems to posit that these questions are much more complicated than they are usually portrayed.
The novel is beautifully written, and Angela's drive to belong in one society or another is both heart-breaking and redemptive.
I put this text down asking myself a lot of questions about identity and, true to its title, this book did not lead me in one direction or another.
This is a wonderful, rich, complex and mature novel from one of our great Harlem Renaissance writers.
Fauset explores an unorthodox structure in which she very ably builds up the characterization of her protagonist, Angela, an African-American woman who chooses to "pass" for white in order to avoid the hardships of racism and other issues in 1920s America.
Fauset's plotting is superb, and the novel is almost Jamesian in the play of social structures, psychological and interpersonal conflicts, and subtle narrative devices to advance the story to a masterful moment of epiphany and maturity for Angela.
Such a wonderful book, and a great classic of 1920s American literature.
Great book!
At the beginning of the novel, it appears to have a very thick moral theme, but as the plot evolves, it focuses more on the struggles of identity Angela faces (hence the title).
It is also a novel about secrets, dual identities, and convoluted relationships.
And the set up of the novel is brilliant!
It is narrated in sections, each one a line from the poem "Plum Bun," which in an abstract way reflects her life at the moment.
The ending will have every reader holding their breath for that final moment of clarity and romance.
Beautiful, beautiful story!
I'm glad I read Plum Bun, b/c it captures an era of American history from a perspective I have known little about, life as an African American in the 1920s. The book places the reader, mostly successfully, in a position of sympathy, if not always empathy. Angela Murray is not a heroine I could fully empathize with, partly for her petulant self-righteous ways. I think this is why I didn't always care what would happen to her and had to push through some of the first half of the book.
