https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221517.Parables_and_Paradoxes
Podría releer sus libros de un modo infinito (como revela el contenido de su obra) siempre encontrando cosas nuevas ya que eso es lo que genera Kafka en el lector: descubrir en sus escritos una fuente inagotable de conocimientos.Este pequeño librito de menos de cien páginas encierran algunas de sus tantas parábolas y paradojas y se disfruta de principio a fin.
"De que te queixas, alma abandonada? Por que razão esse voo agitado em torno da casa da vida? Porque não olhas os longes que te pertencem em vez de lutar contra o que é alheio? Mais vale o pombo vivo no telhado que o pardal semi-morto que, na mão, se debate, crispado de terror."
In my own religious history, it was surprising how well I could identify with the Edgar Allan Poe-ness of my nature, whenever ultimate problems needed to be faced.
I have come to realize that, for the intellectuals of the world, the works of Edgar Allan Poe are like a collection of worn out American horse feathers compared to the depth which can be imagined by those who read the works of Kafka.
Hallucinatory, amusing, and gripping, Kafka always has his hand placed accurately on the pulse of what drives, haunts, beleaguers, and transversely propels society and humankind.
I believe he used biblical and ancient Greek stories and parables, as well as more modern literary classics (Don Quixote), as the basis for each lesson/allegory and I found myself being simultaneously confused (much how I felt when I first read Don Quixote, actually) and also feeling as if I understood the gist of each story’s moral, so much so that I finished the book questioning and examining how I view modern society’s structure and my place in it.
Quick and thought provoking read.
"It was Kafka's misfortune that he could only imagine the curse of existence."- pg 62"And like a patient in the beginning of psychoanalytical treatment he doubted the material he himself had produced.If we are correct in assuming that in "The Judgment" Kafka had intended to create a new myth of the father at a time when the image of the father had been thoroughly deflated by a generation of parricides and deicides, then he defeated his own purpose by commentaries and interpretations of this kind.
اين كه كافكا را از نوجواني دوست داشتم و دارم به كنار،اين كتاب و توانايي نمادپردازي هاي بي نظير كافكا جهانم را دگرگون كرد.كافكا به معناي واقعي يك نابغه است.تمثيلات پوزيدون،گراكوس شكارچي و سانچو پانزا جزو بهترىن هاي اين كتاب بودند.
Really paradoxical ! I wouldn't say I could dive into the depth of Kafka's mind. Most of them didn't reach me. Only a few of them I could understand felt as if he talked about various political, religious & long-traditional drawbacks .
I stumbled upon an old copy of this translation and didn't think different translations meant that much but this version made me look completely differently upon Kafka and this story.
All the philosophical shit about life, time, humanity into one compact collection. A nice read.
"რატომ მღვიძარებ? როგორც ამბობენ, ვიღაცამ უნდა იფხიზლოს, ერთს მაინც არ უნდა ეძინოს".
As numerosas possibilidades interpretativas que cada um destes "contos"/fragmentos traz consigo podem tornar-se intimidantes e, por vezes, alienantes, mas é essa mesma a finalidade última deste negativo e inescrutável universo de Kafka, que em tanto se parece com o nosso.É um livro que reúne escritos representativos da imensa obra deste autor checo, aqui em todo o seu esplendor, elencando algumas das suas melhores criações: o labirinto da Lei, sempre inacessível e indecifrável nas suas intenções; a macabra inutilidade dessa misteriosa criatura a que chamam de Odradek...Absolutamente essencial.
Desta vez saiu em sorte este "Parábolas e Fragmentos" que trata disso mesmo: um conjunto de parábolas e no final alguns fragmentos, ou seja algumas pequenas ideias ou pensamentos do autor.
Talvez devesse ter lido este livro mais tarde, após possuir um melhor conhecimento sobre a obra kafkiana.
Ou, talvez esta obra não seja bem o meu género.O poder que Kafka exerce no leitor, obrigando-o a pensar para entender as suas ideias, está aqui bem patente, porém estas parábolas são para mim textos demasiado pequenos, onde confesso que me sinto um pouco perdido por serem tão breves.
Não foi o meu caso!Págs.
This is really good. These short-short stories really show how much of a genius Kafka was. My favorite parables were those based on Greek antiquity: Prometheus, Poseidon, The Silence of the Sirens, The New Attorney, etc.Here's one of them:The Sirens“These are the seductive voices of the night; the Sirens, too, sang that way. It would be doing them an injustice to think that they wanted to seduce; they knew they had claws and sterile wombs, and they lamented this aloud. They could not help it if their laments sounded so beautiful.”
I didn't really want to post a review, but I feel that I should explain the low rating.
I only read this because a friend thought I should and loaned it to me.
I knew he wouldn't let me give it back if I told him I hadn't read it.
Not sure what the point was, or if it was even "about" anything.
My eyes skimmed over the text, but took very little in.
I'm sure part of the problem was that I knew I wasn't really interested to begin with.
The good part is that it was very fast to "read" (or skim).
This may be my absolute favorite collections of Kafka's works. Here Kafka seems to evidence his immense respect for the works of Goethe, as there are rays of optimism breach man's predicament in the many mini quests in the various parables as evidenced in the 'A Message from the Emperor' also called 'An Imperial Message'. This is an evacuation book - one of the last books that would let slip from my possession.
Yet another book I recently re-visited. An obscure collection of short pieces that read like parables, hence the title. This is a bilingual edition if one prefers to read Kafka in German. I've had this book for many years and enjoy returning to it from time to time.One of my favorite lines from the first parable, "On Parables," reads: "If you only followed the parables you yourselves would become parables and with that rid of all your daily cares."
This book, which features outtakes of various other Kafka books, might as well be called Parables and Prose Poems. Kafka's little pieces are often lyrically sustained, quirky, and surely paradoxical. With language that is both introspective and outward leaning, this collection demonstrates why he is a master of the short form and of modernist ennui.
I love these tiny tales. If all you've read is the Trial or The Metamorphosis, you'll be surprised by this book. Half philosophy, half short story collection, and half futurism. Three halves, just like all good books.
Read this in German, a language which is neither my first nor one I am in any way comfortable with quite yet; thus, I am sure more than many golden nuggets of wisdom went over my head here. Ah well, next time 'round.
Definitely: Kafka had a great imagination...
Read version on the internet
"Away-From-Here, that is my destination."
The most important book I've read.
I'll have to give it a second read once I become more proficient in German.
Parables and Paradoxes by Franz Kafka (1961)
Kafka is a god in my book.
