https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145385.The_Borrowers_Afloat
One of my favorite books as a child holds up some fifty years later. I am so enchanted by the miniature Borrowers who make do with the things that humans lose.
Installment #3 of the Borrowers saga was, for my money, the strongest. Spiller comes into his own here, and he's quite the taciturn but romantic hero. Arrietty may possibly learn a thing or two in this novel,though it's arguable, as she continues with the talking to humans at every opportunity. Pod's a resourceful if staid old gentleman. Homily drives me mad with her panics and her flighty girly taking on.
Mary Norton does peril very well. In this installment, we also get to see the family acting as a strong, calm unit, despite that peril. I'm deeply impressed by these books as I reread them. Few children's books surpass them in writing quality, plot, and characterization.
Liked it.
Probably my second favorite of the series. I love Dreadful Spiller <3
With the help of Spiller and his broken kettle, the Borrowers flee their weasel-haunted home and take the journey downstream, where nothing but mad gypsies and the unknown await them.I don't think I've ever read a Borrower book, even though I am well-versed in the story, which, as an English person, isn't quite as inappropriate and weird as it sounds.
This particular story was interesting because it drove the imagery I had of the Borrowers out of my mind (homely, frightened, comfortable under the floorboards) and basically dumped myself and the Borrowers in the outside world, where birds and rivers threaten their lives at every turn.
At the end of The Borrowers Afield, Pod, Homily, and their daughter Arrietty finally arrived at the cottage where Uncle Hendreary and his family lived.
Arrietty had become used to the wide outdoors and began to pine away for more space.When the cottage humans moved out, leaving no food or other necessities for "borrowing" a crisis was reached.
While Arrietty and her father have always been brave and resourceful, Homily is the true heroine in this book.The Borrowers Afloat was the most exciting story in the series so far, though reading the books in order makes each story mean more.
And now -- my annual relaxing dip into The Borrowers series.
Rereading the books now, as an adult living with an infant to whom I may someday read them, I do understand why they're no longer popular with youthful folk.
For one, compared to your best-selling teenage fantasy series about wizards, vampire lovers, and the zombie apocalypse, they're rather boring.
I mean, the book is essentially a comedy of the manners of the pint-sized bourgeoisie.
For another, the characters are so fussy.
Fortunately, in this volume Norton allows the mother character, Homily, to loosen up a bit and even tramp around for awhile in her petticoat.
So the three borrowers leave in the middle of the night with there friend Spiller who always turns up at the right moment.
in this book they end up floating down the river in Spillers kettle, hence the picture on the front of the book.I did like this book however it was a little bit predictable for my liking.
I know that its a childrens book and its going to be easy reading but i did think it is a bit too simular to the second book for my liking.
still it is a good book and i think that children will enjoy it a lot.
Nothing much really happens in this instalment: having found the Hendrearies, they more or less have to turn around and leave again.
Having done that, they decide to go to a mythical (to Borrowers) model village, where they'll be safe.
A sort of paradise, for them.
Somehow, I'm rather fond of them, too, and their belief.I remember liking the next book best: I hope that's still the case.
But I'm starting to suspect that the magic just built up and up for me, through all the books, and then got varnished, so to speak, by my imagination.
The borrowers Afloat is a book written by, Mary Norton.
This book is about a family that that is little.
Each person in this family is smaller than your pinky.
They set off on a journey to find a new home.
After being seen by humans they had to find a new home.
Many adventurous things happened as they were traveling.
You should read this book because it is exciting and adventurous.
It takes your mind to new places.
If you were one of the borrowers you could do things that humans cannot do.
READ THIS BOOK THAT IS ALL!
Okayy.. waktunya membaca buku ke-3 dari seri The Borrowers, sebenernya udah rada2 lupa sih, haha.. karena gua bacanya seri ke-2 dulu terus buku pertama baru sekarang baca yang ke-3.Mudah2an ceritanya masih bagus ;) I'll update later when I have finished reading the book :D
I didn't enjoy The Borrowers Afloat as much as the earlier two, probably because Arrietty wasn't as active and creative as in the two first parts. I still enjoy Mary Nortons writing a lot though and I'm looking forward to part four.
What the Five-Year-Old thought: "I liked that they were floating in a kettle for a little bit, and that the gypsy got caught."
It was good, but it talked too much about Mild Eye and too little about Spiller. He did save the Borrowers lives,you know. But it did have a good plot-line.
It had been a while since I had last left Arriety and her family hanging on to a boot for dear life.
Here, I was able to get the complete Borrowers series and it was a wonderful gift!In ‘The Borrowers Afloat’ you continue the mad and often wet scapers that Pod, Homily, and Arriety go through.
As with the previous other books, they find themselves on the run, struggling to survive.
Yet, somehow, I missed the gentleness of the first two books.
But I still have another three of the books to go in this series, and I still look forward to it.
Another great installment for the Borrowers!
This one left me breathless a few times!
How will they get out of this predicament, I asked myself several times while reading.The ending did seem a bit abrupt, but now that I know that there are still two more books to go, I can continue their adventures.Their little "untamed" Borrower friend, Spiller, is one of my favorite characters so far.
He reminds me of the Nac-Mac-Feagles from the Terry Pratchett books!
I'd love to write a crossover with both of those characters meeting!This book was great for the young and the young at heart!
The BorrowersA very unique series of stories..exciting and riveting in all their adventures....makes me want to leave (things) around to be borrowed..
I'd say this is the most fast moving Borrowers book, in which I enjoyed. It was also more suspenseful in my opinion and overall very enjoyable.
OK reading.
Wish it had been longer!
Four stars because I'm a bit old for these books, but they are cute and still fun to read. If you like the Littles, you'll like the Borrowers series.
Honestly, these books get better and better.
This book follows the borrowers as they continue their journey to find a new home to live in. I love this story and the continuation of it.
Just had to reread one of my favorites from Childhood. Is there anything more fun than imagining tiny people using all your lost bobby pins, coins, breadcrumbs, and so forth?
The third installment in the Borrowers is a travel novel, following as they search for a new home. The adventures are too few and far between. My kids got bored with it.
The summary for this book is inaccurate (for one thing, the 'Gypsy' villain is named MILD Eye, not 'Milk Eye'.
Then this book, and next The Borrowers Aloft.)This is the Odyssey/Harcourt Young Readers version, a trade paperback, first published in 1998.
Non-Romany are treated with fully as much contempt--and while Mild Eye is, it's true, a pretty disreputable character (largely through cupidity, but also through thoughtlessness, and through not really considering the Borrowers to be real people), this is not really generalized to other Gypsies.
This third volume is very much a transitional episode, which begins with a rehash of the last chapter of Volume Two...well I say "rehash"--today we would call it "cut and paste." Which profoundly annoyed me!
The "moral" may be a good one (no matter what happens, there's a solution to your problems if you can find it) but it's clearly stated in so many words, which is truly annoying--and probably was in the late fifties, too.Read it when you haven't anything else to do...at least then you won't feel you've wasted your time.
However, once I got passed that bit I was happy to settle back into the story of the Borrower family.
And he saves them time and time again—from one thing or another.The point of view jumps from one person to another, which I’ve gotten used to, but I did notice in this book that the point of view was mainly with the mother, Homily.
She can be a bit annoying, but we were also shown the strong side of her, which I found endearing so I didn’t mind seeing things through her eyes.The adventures continue.
The story and the characters are delightful.
850L
