https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160969.The_Cry_of_the_Owl
IL TALENTO DI PATRIZIAIl mio primo incontro con Patrizia è stato la volta che partii per un viaggio che doveva durare qualche settimana, forse qualche mese, ma non poté andare oltre un anno perché la patria (maledetta sempre sia) mi richiamò, e così son dovuto tornare, se pur dimenticando il cuore nel posto che lasciavo eccetera eccetera.
In fondo, c’è qualcuno che non avrebbe voluto essere Tom Ripley?Hitchcock utilizzò una storia della Highsmith una seconda volta, nel 1962, per un episodio della serie “The Alfred Hictcock Hour” intitolato “Annabel” come il romanzo.
When a girl living in an isolated house spurns her fiancee for the peeping Tom that's been spying on her, things quickly circle the drain, lives destroyed in a maelstrom of hatred, jealousy, lies, and death...I read The Talented Mr. Ripley in the fairly recent past and have been on the lookout for more of Patricia Highsmith and her twisted protagonists ever since.
Jenny soon gives her fiancee and decides she's in love with Robert.
You get the feeling she knew first hand about the crazy shit she was writing about, much like old Jim.3.5 out of five stars.
Have you ever read a book with a plot that makes you so anxious to read more, thinking about the plot even when you're not reading. Well, this one did. It was a masterpiece, truly a masterpiece. The beginning was decent, however, after page 100, things starts to get more interesting and the suspense keeps you wondering " what's going to happen next?". I can't say anything about the plot without spoiling it. All I can say it was one of the best novels I read this year.
"She had called him up to give him a piece of her mind, Robert supposed, and what surprised him more than anything was that she could be so voluble, so sure of herself, while addressing someone she considered a murderer.
Weren’t people supposed to be afraid of murderers?
If she really believed him a murderer, wouldn’t she be afraid he might get angry and come after her, too?"It appears that this January has been the month of reading gloriously messed up books and it all started with The Cry of the Owl.Robert is depressed.
Late at night for a crow, Jenny thought.
Τέταρτο βιβλίο της Πατρίσια Χάισμιθ που διαβάζω, μετά το εξαιρετικά απολαυστικό "Ο ταλαντούχος κύριος Ρίπλεϋ", το πολύ καλό "Βαθιά νερά" και την καλούτσικη συλλογή διηγημάτων "Ιστορίες για μισογύνηδες", και για άλλη μια φορά δηλώνω ικανοποιημένος και -μπορώ να πω- μαγεμένος από την γραφή και την μαεστρία της στην δημιουργία δραματικών νουάρ ιστοριών και στην σκιαγράφηση κάποιων εξαιρετικά δυνατών και μοιραίων χαρακτήρων.Στο οπισθόφυλλο της ελληνικής έκδοσης, υπάρχει αυτό το μικρό κειμενάκι που αναφέρεται στην πλοκή του βιβλίου: "Ο Ρόμπερτ Φόρεστερ δεν έμοιαζε άνθρωπος που θα κινούσε υποψίες.
Robert has been gently stalking Jenny (watching her through her kitchen window, not her undressing).
In the book, they call his behavior prowling.
Soon, in a great twist, Jenny starts stalking Robert.
Then her jilted ex fiancee is stalking both of them.
I have read this before, I think eleven years ago.
But, though I did remember it when I actually was reading it, in the intervening time I forgot it, or confused it with her Deep Water (I thought that book had this title, and when I figured it out, it threw me into uncertainty).
Patricia Highsmith is deceptively simple.
She uses virtually no words that an average fourth-grade reader couldn't understand, and for the first maybe fifty pages, I can persist in the delusion that she is writing a shallow story, an adult version of a Dick and Jane reader.
And then things turn DARK, and the darkness belongs not to one character (even to Ripley), but to everyone, to the world that these characters inhabit.
And there is no out, no relief.
I think maybe we're mistaken to read her as if she's writing realist thrillers; maybe we should read her as if she's writing dark parables in the tradition of Shirley Jackson or Flannery O'Connor.
Once again, she creates a creepy character that somehow the reader accepts and even roots for.
Robert Forester finds comfort in watching a stranger, Jenny, nearly every night.
Yet, he comes off as harmless and almost endearing in his bizarre need to find solace in watching Jenny.
It’s not a sexual thing but rather he watches her cook and just go about her errands.
So, here I am rooting for a guy who's warped once again.
The ensuing maze he leads the reader on is a mind f#ck that renders one helpless and compulsively drawn to Forester's series of equally bizarre choices and circumstances.
Να διευκρινίσω ότι παρόλο που προωθείται σαν αστυνομικό, δεν έχει και μεγάλη σχέση με τα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα που έχουμε όλοι στο μυαλό μας...όσοι ψάχνουν για αστυνομικό, με καταιγιστικό ρυθμό, αιματηρές δολοφονίες, και μυστήριο για το ποιος είναι ο δολοφόνος, ας το προσπεράσουν! Πρόκειται περισσότερο για ένα νουάρ μυθιστόρημα, με έμφαση στους χαρακτήρες, ωραία γραφή που σε κρατάει και που διαβάζεται αρκετά γρήγορα. 3.5* Ή 7/10
Za ovu knjigu je malo reći da je odlična, iako su apsolutno svi likovi izuzetno iritantni (što vjerovatno da je posebnu čar priči :D ). Od početka do kraja naći će se neko ko će vam kidati nerve. xD Mene je knjiga psihički iscrpila. Morat ću da uzmem kakvo lagano štivo da se oporavim. :)
For most of this novel Highsmith hits the ideal speed and the information and events happen at a pace perfectly commensurate with the movement of the plot.
I felt that the speed/event ratio got skewed towards the end, but certain events needed to happen in order for the climax to pay-off, so perhaps that's just the way the cookie crumbles sometimes--it got me thinking about the mechanics of thriller writing, though.
Review here
Με αυτό καταπιάνεται η συγγραφέας και κατορθώνει να φτιάξει ένα εξαιρετικό ψυχολογικό θρίλερ.Είναι από τα λίγα βιβλία του οποίου η δομή δεν πάσχει πουθενά.
Στις πρώτες σελίδες προσπαθείς να τον κατατάξεις κάπου αλλά στη συνέχεια, σιγά σιγά ο χαρακτήρας συμπληρώνεται και ολοκληρώνεται πολύ πετυχημένα έτσι ώστε ο αναγνώστης τον ακολουθεί στις περιπέτειες του και, κατά μεγάλο μέρος, συμπάσχει μαζί του.Η γραφή είναι απλή, οι περιγραφές του τοπίου υποβλητικές.
Γυρίζει τις σελίδες με αγωνία για το μέλλον του ήρωα, με ένα κομμάτι του εαυτού του να θεωρεί ότι βρίσκεται στην ίδια θέση.Ενδιαφέρον το εισαγωγικό σημείωμα από την Τίνα Στεφανοπούλου.
Εθιστικό, με το ζόρι σταματούσα το διάβασμα.
Knjiga puna uvrnutih likova i situacija.Odlična,preporučujem.
So it didn't surprise me that this book touched some aspects of having that neurological makeup that many others won't experience: having intense fascinations that sometimes could easily be classified as malicious (the protagonist in this novel obsesses over the image of normalcy a woman gives and he stalks her house, something Patricia herself did), being unable to justify those obsessions and failing to resist their appeal, being unable to properly connect with human beings, people around you distrusting you and/or you suspecting they do, people around you trying to convince you you are crazy and/or trying to convince others of it to ruin your life, etc.
I think Highsmith truly felt that she represented Death in a way, that she caused people around her to suffer without meaning to and while being unable to stop it.
"As pessoas que espreitavam pelas janelas de outras eram anormais - quer observassem mulheres a despir-se, quer elas estivessem apenas a fritar frango."Como sempre, as personagens de Patricia Highsmith são emocionalmente instáveis e dotadas de personalidades danificadas, delineadas por experiências de vida pouco comuns.
Por um lado, temos duas mulheres distintas: uma jovem sonhadora, temperamental que não tem receio da morte e uma mulher psicótico, promíscua e, de certa, forma, tóxica.
De certa forma, o livro centra-se na paixão desigual entre um homem e uma mulher, o que representa um ligeiro desvio na abordagem da autora, que normalmente se foca em relações obsessivas entre pessoas do mesmo sexo.
I must begin by saying that I think Patricia Highsmith's writings give me the creeps!
AND, I think she is brilliant.
This makes it a rather uncomfortable read, as I can mostly do without palpitations, a dry throat and a sense of mounting panic.The book has aged, but not dated.
If anything, I found Highsmith's characters even more disturbing (actually, her characters are always disturbing) in light of how social mores and psychological knowledge has advanced.
I mean, who would think this up????
High smith, of course!From there, Highsmith makes anything believable.....
B.R.A.CE. 2018 4 βιβλία που διαδραματίζονται σε διαφορετική χώρα το καθένα   (4/4)Την Patricia την αγαπώ! Χωρίς να έχω διαβάσει τον Ρίπλεϋ ακόμα υπόψιν σας! 3,5 / 4Η περιγραφή του βιβλίου σε προδιαθέτει για αστυνομικό, αλλά για μένα ήταν περισσότερο σκιαγράφηση χαρακτήρων, σε ψυχολογικό νουάρ να το πω; ( υπάρχει; ) Μία ιστορία που εξελίσσεται ήρεμα και λογικά κι αναπάντεχα. Συμβαίνει ταυτόχρονα να ξέρεις τι θα γίνει και να μην ξέρεις. Σου προκαλεί ένα εθισμό για να δεις τι σκέφτονται, τι πράττ
2018 4 βιβλία που διαδραματίζονται σε διαφορετική χώρα το καθένα
3,5 / 4Η περιγραφή του βιβλίου σε προδιαθέτει για αστυνομικό, αλλά για μένα ήταν περισσότερο σκιαγράφηση χαρακτήρων, σε ψυχολογικό νουάρ να το πω; ( υπάρχει; ) Μία ιστορία που εξελίσσεται ήρεμα και λογικά κι αναπάντεχα.
Συμβαίνει ταυτόχρονα να ξέρεις τι θα γίνει και να μην ξέρεις.
Σου προκαλεί ένα εθισμό για να δεις τι σκέφτονται, τι πράττουν οι ήρωες, αλλά και οι γύρω γύρω.Δεν θα έχεις την υπέρτατη αγωνία, την δολοφονία, την αναζήτηση και την σύλληψη, αλλά θα βρεις ένα υπέροχο κείμενο με ανάπτυξη χαρακτήρων, των σκέψεων τους και της ενοχής του καθενός.
You know a book is good if you bring it to work so you can read those last six pages!A perfect October read. Highsmith is brilliant! To the undiscerning eye, her writing could be viewed as simple, old fashioned. Don't let that deceive you, her craftsmanship of a story is head and shoulders over any other writer I've read. And I read A LOT of mysteries! This is my darkest nightmare turned reality; you are innocent, but circumstances look like you are guilty! This took a while to get into, but once I did, un-put-down-able.
The Cry of the Owl is a classic of bleak, psychological despair and suspense.Patricia Highsmith’s 1962 novel fits the late writer’s mold quite effectively, a portrait of how the main characters’ poor judgment and bad choices ruin their lives.
She never pretended that Robert, Jenny, Greg or Nickie was entirely well or rational and her sharp characterizations effectively communicated how damaged each was in his or her own way.With moody, evocative writing that immerses the reader in a dark, disturbing world of doomed attachments and an inevitable descent into darkness, Highsmith made The Cry of the Owl an essential entry in mid-20th century suspense fiction.A version of this review originally appeared on www.thunderalleybcp.com
Libro entretenido que se deja leer y te pone en tensión y con impotencia debido a las situaciones por las que tiene que pasar el protagonista, pero se me hizo lenta la acción, la mitad del libro es tediosa y el final no me gusto en absoluto, me dejo inconforme.
intense and chilling! (though I still like the talented Mr. Ripley better)
It remains one of the highlights of my 2017 year in reading.Highsmith’s interest in decency and morality comes to the fore again The Cry of the Owl (published a few years later in 1962), a book that seems to start off in traditional psychological thriller territory only to shift towards something a little more existential by the end.
In some ways, it reminded me a little of some of Georges Simenon’s work – his hard/psychological romains durs as opposed to his Maigret books.
Either way, it’s an excellent book.To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
Strangely enough, Robert Forester, the prowler, was the most stable?
for lack of a better term, although he increasingly got on my nerves every time he would convey to Jenny that he wasn't interested in a relationship, and then a day later he's accepting an invitation to dinner with she and her friends, or he's inviting her over.
Figure it out, Robert!!!
I raced through the book to see what was going to happen, only to find that the bad luck pattern continued for Robert.
I'm definitely going to check out more of Highsmith's work.
Hopefully there's something better than this.
Lo quería proteger, abrazarlo y apartar a la multitud que no entendía nada, porque era el personaje que entrañaba los aspectos más dulces de una sociedad ultrajada.
I mean a great moment, one of those "great novel" moments, that comes almost immediately in the book and sets the scene for every little thing that follows.This is a story about a man who is stalking a woman whom he does not know.
It still won't work out, and here is why." "Stalking," she is saying "is not romantic, it's creepy and small, and you will embarass your poor mother."The book works on the good man/bad man good woman/bad woman axis.
I've read so many 50s and 60s novels about horrible, evil, malicious, cruel, scheming wives and ex-wives that I'm starting to suspect the women of the time were angry about something.
The book opens up with Robert the main character, who suffers from depression, watching a young girl (23, named Jenny) in her kitchen window.
Robert just finds solice in Jenny's happiness, watching her everyday life, like cooking, washing dishes, etc.
Beginning this book I thought Robert was the strange one, I mean looking in peoples windows (weirdo).
I also enjoyed the story, Highsmith really kept me interested the entire book.What I didn't like, some of the characters were annoying.
The main character Robert I didn't like until the end.
Highsmith does a really good job of making law enforcement in this book, look and act like idiots.
Klasik bir üçgen: Bir kadın, iki erkek: Jenny, Greg ve Robert… Patricia Highsmith, bu bildik, basit üçgenden polisiye tadında, muhteşem bir roman çıkarmış.
Jenny’nin evlenmek üzere olduğu erkek arkadaşı Greg’le yaşadığı evi uzaktan izleyen, zaman zaman evin bahçesine girip, ağaçların arasından onları gözetleyen, röntgenci Robert, bir anda kendisini sahnenin ortasında buluyor.
Kısa sürede roller değişiyor; Jenny ile tanışınca Greg’in rolünü Robert alıyor.
Kıskançlık yüzünden iki erkek arasında bir nehir kenarında çıkan kavganın anlatımı, boğuşma kısmı ve sonrasında Greg’in ortadan kayboluşu çok başarılı anlatılmış.
Robert’a göre Greg nehre düşmüş, o da kendisini çekip çıkarmıştır, ama Greg’in ortaya çıkmadığı her geçen gün şüpheler artar.
I seriously couldn't put this down, it's so tense and creepy and ominous and wonderful. I picked it up more or less out of the blue, because I hadn't actually read any Highsmith before and because she keeps coming up in conversation. Little did I know that it was currently being turned into a movie starring Julia freaking Stiles.
