https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/968009.The_Magic_of_Believing
Strangely, he found that most people go through life without realising the effect that strong belief can have on reaching their goals - they leave their desires vague and so they get vague outcomes.When Bristol was a soldier in World War One, there was a period in which he had no pay and couldn't even afford cigarettes.
Napoleon accepted this as fact, and therefore to him at least, his rise was inevitable.Bristol tells the intriguing story of Opal Whiteley, the daughter of an Oregon logger, who believed herself to be the daughter of Henri d'Orleans, a Bourbon with a claim to be King of France.
Phyllis Diller mentioned that this book gave her inspiration and insight in her book, "Like A Lampshade In a Whorehouse". For a book copyrighted in 1948...it was ahead of it's time. In comparison to today's books on the subject....this one I think is better. It doesn't have all that feely, lovey, syrupy over the top...love your self stuff. He stays on what I'll call the science side of positive projective thinking.... At least that's I come up with!It worked for Phyllis!
Very good philosophic book.
Idea of believing actually made me happier, I can't say about what happens next but now, when I recently read this book I'm far happier :) and I think that happiness is the most important thing, so I shared this book with my family.
If you make a wrong assumption and after some time period you understand that you were wrong, you can be embarrassed, but think about it - it was worth believing, because if you hadn't even try to believe - nothing would have changed, just rotting in one place and not moving on.
It is the book from where the book such as 'the secret' has been inspired, in fact all of the book based on 'law of attraction'. Its a book that tells the power of belief. p.s. Its not a book on positive thinking.
Strangely, he found that most people go through life without realising the effect that strong belief can have on reaching their goals - they leave their desires vague and so they get vague outcomes.Bristol had learned the truth of philosopher William James' statement that "Belief creates its verification in fact".
Your BELIEF about yourself and your place in the world is arguably the major determinant of success.The subconscious servantIf you can understand the relationship between the conscious and the subconscious minds, Bristol says, you will get to the core of belief power.
To write this at the conservative time it was written in - and have it published - would have been an act of courage and also a big accomplishment - a testimony of the power of belief.
Indeed the power of belief is very real but one should be careful not to ascribe it all importance.
I am a firm believer myself in the power of belief but I'm also a firm believer in the laws of nature that are prerequisites that allow us to understand the power of belief in the first place.It's a good read definitely.
I read this book because of Phyllis Diller actually.
She was being interviewed in another book, "Great Comedians Talk About Comedy" and highly endorsed this book.
I found parallels between this book and "The Tao of Psychology: Synchronicity and the Self" by Jean Shioda Bolen.
They both examine elements outside of conventional thought which I like and treat it with respect.
I was highly skeptical of this book to start, kinda felt like some sleazy, snake oil salesman making a pitch, but after reading, I think Bristol is on to something.
Well worth reading and sharing.
The truth is out there.
The idea is this, if you are focusing on something for a long period of time, by repeating for yourself some thought, phrase or sentence, you will eventually begin to believe in it.
He also mentions that hard work as itself won't bring success, you must to believe in what you are doing and do the hard work in order to succeed.Author gives 3 main exercises in the book in order to start use this "science of mind stuff": 1.
Mirror technique - repeating to yourself some phrase, which describes what you want in front of the mirror, looking into your own eyes, literally hypnotizing yourself.
Indeed, I love this kind of books I can eat it up with a spoon. I got my copy for less than ten dollars and it is always on the table. This kind of books you read over and over again. We are inundated and bombarded with doubt and skepticism on every side. It takes courage to "hold onto" the faith. A Latin proverb says "crede quod habes, et habes", that is, Believe that you have it, and you have it. The Bible says that faith calls calls into being that which does not exist (Romans 4: 17).
I read this book way before the New Age Started back in early 80's.
This is one of the first books I read and it saved my life.
It all works.Yes all the new age books these days are copies off the greats like Bristol, Louise Hayes "You can heal your life." Anthony Robbins "Unlimited Power" and on..Anyone who reads this and our open to teaching their intuition about the word "now" and about keeping ones mind blank by singing a specific song you will heal yourself and your life.
Great book and a must read - forget about "Secrets" it is only for money grabbing.
Excellent book on the power of the mind. Has two workable techniques that will absolutely produce results. Just remember, it is possible !
I didn't finish it. Didn't hold my interest.
It is one of the greatest realities in human life, rooted in instinct.The powers of the subconscious are many, including intuition, emotion, certitude, inspiration, deduction, imagination, organization, suggestion, memory and dynamic energy.A powerful force within us, an un-illuminated part of the mind – separate from the conscious mind – is constantly at work molding our thoughts, feelings, and actions.
Nevertheless, it is there, and from the beginning of recorded time, man has known that it exists.Just as the conscious mind is the source of thought, so too the subconscious mind is the source of power.The subconscious is one of the greatest realities in human life.
If his book does not help you and everyone who reads it to do whatever it is you do or something that you may want to do to, to do it better, then nothing ever will; the book is that good!I have used the principles discussed in the book without knowing them to be principles; at least at first.
What I believe is that if you take the time to read the book, even though it was written in the late 1940's, it is more valid today with all that is going on and the competition to become successful being so competitive.
وكيف يستخدم هذا اليقين وعلمه في نيل الأهداف وتحقيق الأمنيات وزيادة فرص الحياة وغيره من الاستخدامات الإيجابية..يورد الكاتب الكثير من القصص ليبرهن مدى جدوى اليقين في تغيير حياة الناس من منتهى السلبية إلي منتهى الإيجابية في وقت معقول..
يورد الكتاب الكثير من الدلائل العلمية والبراهين والدراسات الأكاديمية التي تتحدث عن نفس الموضوع وإن كانت لم تُعتمد لكنه يوردها ليبرهن للقارئ أن ما يكتبه ليس بخرافة..
شعرت أحيانا أنه يقدم الحياة بشكل أبسط مما هي عليه أصلا .
في بعض الجمل شعرت بركاكة الأسلوب .صغر حجم الكتاب وعدم مرونة فتح الصفحات جعلت من عملية القراءة شيء صعب بالنسبة لي.-أعجبني في الكتاب أنه دائما ينبه إلي نقطة جوهرية أن العمل ضروري وأن اليقين والأفكار الإيجابية لا تفعل شيئا للانسان من دون عمل..
:)Written in the vain of The Secret and other such books about attracting metaphysical powers to get what you want out of life, this book is definitely different because it is written based on the direct experience of the author and those around him.
Although a sceptic, I certainly have a very open mind and value experience much more than empty words or instructions not based in direct experience.
Hence, although I wasn't 100% sold on the message of the book, it was certainly more inspiring than "The secret" ever was.At times there are limits to what this book can do, due to the fact how old and dated it can feel.
This book I chose because i was leaving the country and wanted some inspirational words to read.
the message is good though and I think he does make many valid points that I plan to use in my everyday life now.
I'll admit thought that I skipped through it a lot because he writes example after example after example, its like "i get it already".
I think the book could perhaps been half as a long and still gotten the point across.
There really is power in your thoughts though!
The message is wonderful, but it's so outdated! It's a classic, and the message is still true yet we now live in a radically different world than in 1948. I found the author to be long-winded and needed to skim through some parts. Interesting read.
A bit antiquated (and perhaps even alienating) for modern readers, however the underlining core message is still vibrant and impactful. If you can get past these objections, as I was able to, you might find the principles in this book meaningful and useful.
This book is a great reminder of the power of the subconscious.
Xong rồi khẳng định rằng con người có thể trở thành bất cứ ai họ muốn chỉ bằng việc tạo ra bức tranh tinh thần (ý nghĩ) rồi với tinh thần tích cực và tin vào chính mình sẽ thành công.
Tác giả còn khẳng định niềm tin không hành động là niềm tin chết, vậy nên hãy hành động liên tục theo niềm tin, và bạn sẽ đạt được điều mình muốn sớm thôi!Những hạt giống tốt đang ngủ yên trong tiềm thức chúng ta!
One of the first books of it's kind, it's all about believing, visualization, affirmations.
The law of suggestion starts in the subconscious mind, and to make it work the way you want you must assert believable affirmations.
And you need to know exactly what you want and visualize it."..we realize that these achievements, and in fact all our possessions t0 a thousand and one things - came as a result of creative thinking""...Buddha said many centuries ago: "All that we are is the result of what we have thought.""faith without action is dead"
I'm working my way through some woo-woo books that were recommended to me.
As usual there are some ideas here that probably work.
If you have a single-minded obsession that you think about day and night and take regular action to achieve (there's even a description of "SMART goals" of a sort), you're probably going to get some results.
I initially gave it two stars since it has a few good ideas, but you can probably get them from a Buzzfeed article.
Because it wasn't helpful to me and was repeating some of the same ideas in similar books (very derivative of Think and Grow Rich, published a decade before), I gave it one star.
Millions of readers have proved the magic of believing!!
Okay?
I'm working on my own proof as I write this.
As far as the book goes - it's kind of a rambling text that seems to have been forced onto paper in a wave of excitement at this discovery.
By believing something strongly and with enough emotion and faith, it will come true.
Yes, there is magic to that.
I struggled with the turn of the century language and some phrases that may be considered a bit old-fashioned: "yes, women too can make this happen - even with their female brains"??!!
Yes, this book may sound irrational, and yes it may look old, but in a good way, and pushes to read for more.The author is given credit by is scientific approach, he read thousands of books, made a fortune in business, met lots of people during his lifetime, and had an obsession about this mere idea that mind power can trigger unexpected results that man's eyes can't see, and man's rational can't understand, yet it feels real.
I underline most of the book like with good classics.
Each sentence becomes a hammer to get that idea nailed down inside of me.
It's emphasis in that one must constantly repeat a thought over and over again to make it stick.
Much like other books in this category of literature it talks of sustained thoughts and visualizations.
It connects religious practices, occult and extraordinary feats of success under the banner of belief.
most of us are victims of mass thinking and feed upon suggestions from others," stress the importance of belief.
It has many stories of success that come from the act of sustained.
I can see myself constantly reviewing its pages for insights and inspiration, I suggest that you should too.
It mainly comprises of lots of examples, experiments and situational facts.
The essence of this book relies on the power of belief- "If you can think about it and you believe it, you can achieve it."Overall a good book.
But at the end I felt it went out of topics.
It was just trying to put lots of examples, which I felt was not required at the end.
The writer also added a topic about women examples, which I completely thinks was not necessary.But overall a good book.
Talks about two major facts - The power of autosuggestion and the mirror technique.
I believe in the magic of believing but this book provided way too many examples to try and prove believing is true which took away from the message.To summarize: believe in yourself and what you want to do; surround yourself with other believers and distance yourself from non-believers / haters; use the power of constant repetition (put slogans everywhere, repeat phrases internally to yourself and also use the power of the mirror in self suggestion).
A great book on what happens when a positive attitude is applied. Some part were a kind of a thick read, and I would have liked to have more of a counter argument of the theory behind the magic of believing. That being said I liked where it went-for the most part. I don't think this book will change your stance. If you open the book thinking it is for real, it will astonish you. If you are a doubter, you probably wont finish the book.
Excellent book for anyone who seeks to improve their life in any way. The keys to success in your chosen endeavor have been being shared for decades. Mr. Bristol brings wisdom from the 40's when he was a man in his 50's with some experience under his belt. How lucky we are that he chose to share some of his experience and wisdom. Enjoy!
