https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120555.The_Veldt

That makes this story sound dark, and it is pretty dark in many ways, but it is also whimsical and humorous in its dealings with real-life themes such as letting moving pictures raise your children, and how all this newness distances us from more engaged, tribe-like family life and child-rearing, from basic physical exertion, and in a lot of ways from anything beyond base-level thought.
Summaries of short stories are danger!ous.The dystopian themes and the pitchy humor are quite Saunders-like, if Saunders were to take a cue from, say, a Wes Anderson and lighten up just a little bit (a tiny little bit) in approaching the true-to-life, big, scary obstacles of living in the hyper-advanced, over-crowded, isolating and deadening modern world.
4.25*There's this magical house with a magical nursery that changes into "The Veldt" which is the grassland of Africa.
Certainly one of Bradbury’s best short works and maybe his most recognized.The Veldt was first published in The Saturday Evening Post in 1950, and this has been a ubiquitous entry into many collections of his work and has been published on its own in countless anthologies.A family has a smart house (a recurring theme in his work) where machines and robots do virtually all of the work.
Juvenile images of fairy tales and innocent make believe has tuned into an unsettlingly realistic scene from the African veldt.
Super classic super sci-fi from the master, Ray Bradbury.
Peter and Wendy (the children) live with their parents in an ultra-modern, do-it-all-for-you home.
Pretty cool stuff!Unfortunately, parents George and Lydia find themselves asking what use they are to the children, since the house can do everything better for the children than they can… with one exception: the house never disciplines the children or requires anything of them.
Of course, George and Lydia might do so, but – in the spirit of the times/house/technology – don’t feel they can or should.
After a time, they begin to worry about the children and the complete lack of relationship between parent and child.
When you read a short story like this one, there's no mistaking the reasons Bradbury is regarded as a master storyteller.
Still it drags you along to the end, and the story lingers, long after you've read the last word.
This theme turns up repeatedly in Bradbury's shorter works, this idea of mind numbing and load lightening technologies destroying our connection as families, in society.
In this story, children use technology to satisfy their every whim.
Maybe what makes him the master is his ability to frame our faults as "developed" people into a story that we must hope could never come true.
I just read this for my creative writing class. I was very well-written, suspenseful, and included some classic Ray Bradbury themes I've enjoyed in Fahrenheit 451. It was on the other hand rather dark but also sobering when the natural conclusion of letting technology take over your life was portrayed. Just a note that there are some brief descriptions of death, one blasphemy, and two instances of swear words.
A superb short story from Ray Bradbury and one that is quite a bit "darker" than much of his short fiction.
It originally appeared in the Saturday Evening Post in 1950 under the title, "The World the Children Made" and was than included in the anthology The story is dark, cynical look at the dangers of allowing technology (like TV) raise our children.
I won't go any further so as not to disclose any spoilers, except to say that the parents become concerned about the effect of the technology on themselves and their children and trouble follows.
A very strong Bradbury story.
I cannot give this book any stars because I really hated reading it.
I saw everything perfectly drawn up in front of my eyes as if the Story were a picture rather than just words on a page.
If you are looking for a story that makes you think, that is so beautifully written everything appears in front of your eyes, and if you like Bradbury's works: this is a book for you.
As for how "good" I thought the book was, I am inclined to give it close to 5 stars.
As to how much I liked reading it, I cannot bear to give it one star.

I'm in the middle of reading a long book and wanted a break with something Halloween S and creepy and this was short and disturbing. I really like it and think after this book I'm reading I will turn to a couple of really good scary books because that was creepy and it is the season for being disturbd
And if you yearn for an exceptionally strange tale...
I had to read this book for my english class and I really enjoyed it!This book is a futuristic (sci-fi) horror story, with a futuristic house that literally does everything for its residents!
It was really entertaining and the ending was PERFECT!
We have to keep in mind that this book has been written in 1950 and the written kind of gave us his thoughts on the future by creating a futuristic house!
If you haven't read it yet, I think you should because when I read it, I actually felt a little bit concerned with all of the technologies we have nowadays!
Be careful guys!A very very great book!
But this is not the love that we are talking about in this story.
This story posed the questions which frequently come to the surface of my mind.Many a times I have had an argument with my parents and have wondered how can I balance my love and respect for them with my personal growth and learning from life.
Then the time comes when the parents feel the need to control and look after the interest of the kids and of themselves.
Have the kids evolved themselves with the machine so much that others have become dispensable?These are the questions answered in the end of the story.
Another good technological based short from Bradbury. This is about the powers of technology and spoilt children.I loved how even though the parents so desperately wanted to turn off their house, they couldn't quite resist it enough to do it, ending in a not so nice surprise.Even with its predictable ending, this one gives you the shivers.
Jumanji gone terribly wrong. Ray Bradbury was such a damn genius.
This is totally a Black Mirror plot, but written in the 50's.I like how we can guess what's going to happen right at the beginning, but it's still too bizarre to handle, so we have to proceed reading in agony while the characters seem to change and turn to darker directions right before our eyes.I remember a different story by Bradbury, also with the same theme of an intelligent house, as part of the Martian Chronicles book, and I like how his complete lack of faith in such a device shows itself differently in these two different cases.
They were awfully young, Wendy and Peter, for death thoughts.
Or, no, you were never too young, really.
Long before you knew what death was you were wishing it on someone else.
When you were two years old you were shooting people with cap pistols.SF in the '50s, yet awfully close to reality in the 21st century, since virtual reality is a thing.
This was a short but truly gripping story on how technology is taking over our lives, and how this addiction can blur the lines between morality and immorality.The Veldt can be seen as a warning for what's to come when people decide that an upbringing of their children using technology for everything is the most adequate one.
And keep an eye on what your children are doing!Edit: I have now also listened to an audio dramatized interpretation of this story, (thank you Petra!) and after listening to the audio drama I now have a second, alternate opinion of this story.
In the print, I thought the children were evil, and the room was just "technology".
In the audio drama, I saw the children as victims, and the room itself as evil, as having developed an artificial intelligence and that the room itself was controlling the children and their actions.
A decent horror tale from the great science fiction writer Ray Bradbury (Fahrenheit 451 will always hold a special place in my heart) that focuses on some very cool concepts that aren't explored as well as they could be, but are still explored sufficiently enough to make this a somewhat entertaining and indefinitely worthwhile read.
Just a warning: almost all of this story's characters are certified DICKS!
Especially the kids, but I think that's in large part because of their parents who are much better than they are but are still without a doubt DICKS.
So, if you like being annoyed by bratty kids read this story, it will terrify you.
An interesting premise that has aged well in a world where video entertainment and virtual reality are now, well, realities. Bradbury tackles a dysfunctional family dynamic accelerated by technology. What parent has not had to turn off the video game console or pull away the tablet, to the eternal heartbreak of the child? Bradbury takes that heartbreak a step further. Great story, a classic.
Διήγημα που θα έπρεπε να διδάσκεται για τη γραφή, τον ρυθμό και την επεξεργασία του θέματός του. Μια οικογένεια στο κοντινό μέλλον αντιμετωπίζει προβλήματα από τον εθισμό των δεκάχρονων παιδιών της σε ένα δωμάτιο εικονικής πραγματικότητας. Σιγά το πράμα θα μου πείτε, τα έχουμε δει αυτά και στο Black Mirror. Σωστά, μόνο που ο Μπράντμπερι τα έγραψε αυτά το 1950!
this book is great. I first read it during my 7th grade year in English, and I still love it to this day. The ending is very morbid though, so I'm not completely sure why they made 12 year olds read it... either way, I adore this book and know that it's a great fit for anyone who's a fan of Ray Bradbury.
Bradbury tells a story of people whose lives have been taken over by technology, yet they are not happy.
The incredible thing is how well his story applies today, as though he foresaw how technology could ruin our lives if it isn't controlled.
I think this story works best if you read it allegorically: if uncontrolled, your addiction to technology will eat you alive.
But when it comes down to it, this story is really about parenting.
It is a striking commentary on the problems of raising children in a society enthralled with the newest technological advancement.
Follow me on the interwebs:  Blog  +  Twitter  +  Facebook  +  Instagram  "The house was full of dead bodies, it seemed. It felt like a mechanical cemetery. So silent. None of the humming hidden energy of machines waiting to function at the tap of a button." A creepy little tale about a magical house, a magical nursery and the threat technology poses on our relationships with each other and ourselves.
Freaky. Read for class..
It's kind of amazing when you think about how many authors today write 800 page epic saga novels and don't say half as much as Bradbury does in this short story. Never mind that it was write almost 70 years ago and, other than the monetary scale mentioned briefly, is probably even more relevant today than it was at the time, when the technology on display was a distant fear, rather than practically here today.
This short story was written in the 50's.
Back then technology was evolving rapidly and the most important year in the 50's was the year of hope.
This was the year 1958, a very prestigious year.
The world exposition in Brussels was one among the things that took place.
Technology was so important that people even thought world peace would come because of it.
I believe the importance of technology to people made Bradbury want to write this story.
This short story was astonishing.
How long will it take before the other examples from the story will take place?
Part sci-fi horror/ part fabled warning against the dangers of spoiling children, this worked pretty effectively. Although predictable, I liked the slow build-up, and the ending was fantastic with the creepy daughter quietly offering the psychologist tea. *shiver* I'm not sure which was more frightening - the kids, the lions, or the adults' parenting. If you like to creep yourself out, like I do at this time of year, this is the perfect season to read this short scary story.
