https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571039.The_Spider_s_Thread
The Buddha saw there, in the depths of Hell, a single man writhing along with the other sinners.
This man was named Kandata, and he had been a notorious thief who had performed murder and arson and other acts of evil.
In his past, however, he had performed just one good deed: one day, when walking through the deep forest, he saw a spider crawling along the road.
At first he raised his foot to crush it, but suddenly he changed his mind and stopped, saying, “No, small though it may be, a spider, too, has life.
The Spider's Thread is such a fine masterpiece, one of the greatest short stories if not the greates
The Spider's Thread teaches a lesson about selfishness. The Buddha Shakyamuni finds a man named Kandata in the underworld. He was a sinner. But, one day, he did not crush a spider with his foot. Because of this, the Buddha lowered a spider thread into the Hell to send Kandata to Heaven. When Kandata started to climb the thread, other sinners were starting to climb too. He shouted that it was only for him. As a result, the weight of sinners made it to fall apart. All the sinners ended up in the depths of Hell.
Kandata is an evil bandit who dies and, naturally, goes to hell.
However, he has one good deed to his name: He did not kill spider one day when he was walking through a forest, realising that, although the spider was small and insignificant, it had had its own small life, and it would be wrong to simply kill it.
The Buddha lowers a Spider's thread into Hell, for Kandata to reach.
However, he becomes arrogant, claiming the thread is his, and once again falls into the depths of Hell.
Real rating: 7.9//10The retelling of a fable is done with ease and childlike innocence in Akutagawa's story. There is no heavy handed judgement or syrupy moralism only a simple tale that is for children but should be read by adults every so often as a reminder.The prose is decent with a poetic essence to it which makes this tiny read a pleasure to reread like a favourite poem.
Terminado: El Hilo de la Araña de Ryūnosuke AkutagawaEs un cuentito cortito y súper interesante, un buen primer acercamiento al escritor que en 4 hojas deja una moraleja al final de su historia, tras mostrar como Buda intenta salvar a un pecador de su padecimiento en el infierno.
A good book for sophomores.
It's one of thebest shortJapanese story.
The best.
When the Buddha was staying still by the pond, he happened to look down between the lotus leaves and flowers at the darken world of Hell---it was far beneath the pond.
He could clearly see the Styx, a bloody-pond and a pin-hill through the clear water of the lotus pond.The Buddha noticed a man called Kandata squirming around with other sinners.
In that case, they'd never drive me away onto the pin-hill nor make me sink into the bloody pond."Just then the thread reached him on his nose; he at once held the spider's thread with his both hands tightly and began to climb up hurriedly.
Then he suddenly saw the flower with a vision in the Hell showing Kandata, a great robber and a sinner who was doing a good thing.
But, he saw the spider in the Paradise spinning a silvery thread and he put it in the lotus flower with a vision and it was gone to Hell.Kandata was rising and sinking with other sinners, and everywhere, you could just see a dark sight and you could hear the shouts and cries of tortures in the Needle Mountain.

Its very short, but I really enjoyed the moral of the story. It's really a less then 10 minute read, but I am going to read more by this author. I think I will enjoy his work just based on reading this.
hơi thất vọng vì đã đọc "rashomon" và "trong rừng trúc" nên kỳ vọng dành cho tất cả những thứ viết bởi akutagawa đều ở mức ngất ngưởng. giống như "đỗ tử xuân", "sợi tơ nhện" có tính giáo lý quá nhiều và đập thẳng vào mặt người đọc luôn nên đọc xong thì không còn gì để chiêm nghiệm.
An entertaining short story about death, afterlife, selfishness, mercy and irony.
This is really, really memorable. It's a book that makes you think. Is short, so is good for read at anytime.
It has so much more meaning in it than you may think. Wonderful.
i want to read
Striking similar to the parable of the onion from The Grand Inquisitor presented in The Karamazov Brothers by Dostoevsky. Buddhism at its finest.
2.5 stars.
Ryunosuke Akutagawa'nın Fyodor Dostoyevskinin "Karamazov qardaşları"romanınn 3-cü bölümündən təsirlənərək 1918-ci ildə qələmə aldığı "Hörümçək toru" qısa hekayəsi
