https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35631386-the-undoing-project
Tversky was a widely admired mathematical psychologist, iconoclast, and skeptic who challenged accepted thinking and in so doing, provided new ways to look at old problems.
This is related, in a distant way, to the illogic discovered in the decision trees Kahneman and Tversky discussed, and unfortunately Lewis decides to revisit the breakthrough in his own understanding at the beginning of this book.
Once Lewis settles into the real subject of his book, his writing becomes familiarly crystalline, filled with science and emotion, describing a singularly fascinating tale.Particularly interesting is Lewis’ attention to how ideas develop.
What made this book special is that Lewis made baseball interesting for people who are not usual fans of the sport.
If Lewis is capable of making baseball appeal to non sports fans, then he can also make behavioral economics and psychology accessible to a person like myself who is either finds the subject matter dull or tedious.
Rather than jumping straight into theories on economics or psychology, Lewis chooses to open The Undoing Project with a reference to Moneyball, followed up with a chapter on how a psychologist with no sports background became an NBA general manager in charge of selecting potential players in the draft.
He became a financial journalist and has written for an array of well-known magazines, including a stint as a senior editor at The New Republic.This book, The Undoing Project, focuses on the biographies of Kahneman and Tversky, not only on their ideas and work.* That's not why I read it.
That technique I find useful, maybe because I, too, find their work impactful Richard Thaler†, one of the authors of The New Republic article I linked, is an economist who was having trouble finding his way in a field then based on the assumption that people were rational.
This is a great story about two genius psychologists, Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky.
While handing Tversky the award, Moshe Dayan said to him, "You did a very stupid and brave thing and you won't get away with it again." During the Yom Kippur War in 1973, Tversky again was in the heart of the battle, and he did some brave, but very stupid things.While both Kahneman and Tversky were academic research psychologists, they found themselves working on practical problems of real interest to their country.
I whole-heartedly recommend Kahneman's book to anybody seriously interested in psychology.
And Mankind longs for certainty but we live in an inherently uncertain word.Man is a deterministic device thrown into a probabilistic Universe  (Kindle Locations 2619-2620).There, no need to read any more or my review.BUT, I do ramble on, so here goes…The two psychologists Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman starting in the 1960’s, discovered when people make decisions in times of uncertainty, they are influenced by biases in place of statistical thinking, and sometimes flying in the face of statistics, make decisions quite confidently.
They went on to share their thoughts on why these illogical choices were dominant and how such responses could be anticipated.
This book explains their theories to some degree but it’s main focus is on them as individuals – their lives, personalities and backgrounds – and on how they worked together.
I can’t claim that I became an expert in behavioural economics as a result of this book, but a basic understanding of the rudiments was enough to give me insight into the significance of their work.
less interesting than financial traders who short the mortgage market, or adoptive parents who help their talented son beat the odds and get drafted to the NFL, or who compile a winning sports team through metrics.The first chapter is not at all about Kahneman and Tversky, but about the use of metrics by the Houston Rockets in the NBA.
Then the book launched into some very interesting biographical information about Kahneman and Tversky, By the middle of the book, however, I was bogged down into what I felt were interminable descriptions of faculty politics, and various surveys designed by K and T to demonstrate irrational thinking.
It is a testament to Michael Lewis' writing that chunks of the psychological research featured in this book were beyond my comprehension, and yet I still enjoyed reading it.
These men were two brilliant academics drawn together by a marriage of knowledge and they created a family of ideas related to:- Cognitive psychology- Judgment and decision-making- Behavioral economics- Hedonic psychologyThey wrote revolutionary papers on:- anchoring and adjustment- availability heuristic- base rate fallacy- conjunction fallacy- framing- behavioral finance- clustering illusion- loss aversion- prospect theory- cumulative prospect theory- representativeness heuristicI first heard of these men when I was studying public policy back in my young college days.
So, while there wasn't much on the academic side here I wasn't already familiar with from things I've read the lsat 20 years, I LOVED reading about Kahneman and Tversky (and some of the other minor players in this book).
In any case, Comte believed that psychological was not a science, or at least the introspective part of it, and it’s it interesting to compare this cross-disciplinarity with how Marx took up biological terms in his economic analysis, and now psychology as "decision science" uses the market terms of economics: utility, value, choice.I was close to finished with the book last weekend when I read Leonhard’s NYT review (http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/06/boo...) that seemed to shift at the end between the descriptive claim of Kahneman and Tversky that people think fallaciously in everyday estimates and their normative claim that the rational, statistical approach is better and ought to be followed.
He usually has a single narrative arc from beginning to end, which has served him well, but is missing in this book.
I was quite interested in the topic given I have read "Thinking, Fast and Slow" three times, which is chock full of insight and practical wisdom based on sophisticated research.
And though Lewis is obviously the better stylist, he was not as lucid or concise in explaining the most interesting ideas that Kahenman explicates in his own book.
If you have not read "Thinking, Fast and Slow," I recommend reading that book instead.
This one was a disappointment and a waste of my time.Lewis’s books are all about the same kind of subject: a set of men who are outsiders in some way have an insight, do things differently, and enjoy success (scrupulous or otherwise) in their fields.Kahneman and Tversky match this description, and they are definitely worthy subjects.
That’s basically the whole story, and it doesn’t reveal anything new or inspiring or interesting about the world of academia.The best part was the coda (the afterword), which finally set aside the tedious main story and talked about some of the practical applications and impacts of Kahneman & Tversky’s theories.
Since both people described in this biography are Israeli and served in the military, it was interesting to find out about.What I didn't like: 1) The details and quotes that seemed irrelevant and boring - like what color suit he wore, how his desk looked, what this random person said about his facial expressions, who laughed when etc.
But if I don't know the person being quoted, the relevance of their opinion to me is zero.
3) I really could live without knowing about the petty fights behind closed doors, jealousy and asshole-ness between two genius scientist collaborators.
(1 1/2) Double expresso....check. Red Bull....check. Adderall....check. Make sure you have all these ingredients close by when you take on this book. It will require all your concentration to not zone out as you are reading it. Yes, there is some interesting stuff in here, but you have to fight for it. Most of Lewis's other books have had popular themes or stories that kept you going and engaged the entire time. This one does not. It is a tricky read.
The book states that the most common way for people to add to their own unhappiness is by going over their lives and thinking, “If only.” Again, this may seem obvious, but I’ll bet you’re like me and you underestimate just how much you do it.
Yes, I want to undo and redo my life, but so does everyone else, so how interesting to others can that be?But aside from all the self-questioning the book has gotten me to do, I really grew to like Danny and Amos.
If Kahneman and Tversky were giving talks today, they'd be YouTube/TED talk stars.
While I first became acquainted with their work during business school, Lewis more comprehensively outlines how their take on psychology has so profoundly affected the discipline of economically-rational (or not so rational) man.
Anything published in the last fifteen years on the subject of decision-making owes a debt to these two remarkable researchers.Tversky passed away before the Nobel prize was awarded for his work with Kahneman.
Since the Nobel is not given posthumously, Kahneman was the sole recipient.
However, Tversky, who became a Stanford professor, was widely-recognized and honored during his lifetime.Non-fiction; highly recommended for readers interested in business, decision-making, economics, and statistics.https://www.princeton.edu/~kahneman/http://news.stanford.edu/pr/96/960605...
I think my friend Andrew put this best: only Michael Lewis could make this story exciting. The only thing I can add to this is that I am now genuinely excited to read Daniel Kahneman's THINKING FAST AND SLOW, a book that it feels like a hundred people have tried to sell me on over the years and that I had, up until this moment, resisted. Lewis is a master storyteller, and the way he plays with the tension of both this ideological partnership and the ideas themselves is truly impressive. 4.5 stars.
Kahneman e Tverski demonstraram que os seres humanos são tudo menos isso, que a racionalidade não está nunca separada da emocionalidade, e que existe um conjunto de processos que toldam e enviesam o modo como vemos e compreendemos o mundo.Lewis ao longo do livro vai usar toda a psicologia da dupla para nos dar conta da história de amizade que os levou a manterem-se juntos por mais de uma década, e depois novamente na hora da morte de um deles.
He includes all sorts of unnecessary anecdotes about secondary characters (including himself during his phase in the NBA attempting to judge grade draft selections) who are barely connected with the central relationship - they don't even need to have met (e.g. the author)- sometimes they are just people who were inspired by a thesis of theirs, sometimes they are merely people who would have benefited from their theories had they been aware of them.
Who wouldn’t want to read about the platonic and professional love Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky shared, so strong that their wives were intensely jealous.
That Kissenger quote was in the back of my head throughout reading this book and I think it really summarizes my views on their partnership.People are predictably irrational.
They both clearly saw qualities in each other that they loved but lacked in themselves, and it produced a partnership that would change the world.
The change he suggested, was that our cockpit was this autocratic decision making environment where the pilot is a god and nobody checks him.
Šīs grāmata atklāj lasītājam, kā šo divu zinātnieku darbs ir izmainījis mūsu realitātes uztveri.Esmu iesīkstējis vecūksnis, un lielākoties par psiholoģiju neesmu diez ko labās attiecībās, varbūt tādēļ, ka es neko nejēdzu, varbūt tādēļ, ka lielākoties viņi vairāk izskatās pēc ezotēriķiem, kas tikai uzdodas par respektabliem cilvēkiem.
Likās, esmu atšķīris kārtējo superīgo autora grāmatu.Taču turpmākās nodaļas mani nobeidza, it kā jau autors visu dara pareizi, taču tik garlaicīgu un bezmērķīgu stāstījumu reti kad gadās sastapt.
Tā ir izdota latviski, pašķirstīju grāmatu veikalā un sapratu, ka tā ir daudz vērtīgāka par šo.Pēc visa tā varu grāmatai dot 4 no 10 ballēm, ja esi lasījis iepriekšējās autora grāmatas, tad šī nestāv ne klāt.
I enjoy a book or article that uses statistics and/or facts to cause me to ponder things from a different perspective.
I think I need to read Kahenman's "thinking,fast and slow" to understand this book.I enjoyed some parts but overall the cause was lost for me!
I think it's a reflection of how much behavioural economics has become part of the mainstream that the story recounted by Lewis no longer has the power to surprise that it might have had a decade ago.
Sadly, all we are told here is that behavioural economics has revealed that humans are not as "rational" as economists had previously believed; if you thought that a sine qua non of such an assertion would be a clear understanding of rationality, you'll be surprised to learn that we're not given one here.
When Psychology strapped on its parachute and dropped into the Kingdom of Economists, most of the natives rushed off to defend Rational Man from the attack of Emotionalists.
Then a curious thing happened.
When they considered emotions, the Economists found Rational Man more human, more likely to behave as people actually behaved.
Michael Lewis narrates how it happened in this superb biography of two outstanding thinkers who were in love with each others' ideas and a little bit with each other.
Michael Lewis is a great story-teller and his latest book ‘The Undoing Project’ is as good as the previous ones. This is a biography of two Israeli psychologists who had such an impact on economics that one of them – Daniel Kahneman won the Nobel Prize. This is also a biography of the idea that people are not as rational as they think they are; moreover, their mistakes aren’t random, they are predictable and just like optical illusions even after you know you’ve been fooled you still see them.A great book, recommended.
Not only that, but he also proves that if a large percentage of people in a particular field are telling you that it’s a stupid question and actively attempting to stop you from asking said question, then you’re probably on to something.Lewis’s most recent book, “The Undoing Project”, is about the science of decision-making, and it is, of course, fascinating.
That slowed down after they moved to the U.S. and lived in different places.There were many fascinating ideas in this book.
I previously read the book Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman.
Most economists were reluctant to accept this.
But eventually they accepted it.
Since the Nobel prize is only given to living people AT was not named, but everyone knew he was part of it.One example is doctors.
Then they did a study giving test cases to doctors.
And, doctors even disagreed with themselves - when given the same case twice sometimes the doctors would give different answers.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Dennis Boutsikaris was excellent.
The bulk of the book covers the fascinating work undertaken by two Israeli academics to show that economic theory based on rational actors ignores that humans are not rational. While this seems like an obvious point from personal experience any economics course predating their work brainwashed this insight out of you before you could say Adam Smith five times. The book is ok but suffers from the fact that the original authors wrote about it so compellingly that unlike other michael Lewis books one doesn’t really need his authorship to shed light on the topic.
The story of Daniel Kahneman and his erstwhile companion Amos Tversky, and their creation of the field of behavioral economics. This was informative and quirky--these guys kind of propounded all of these very provocative and innovative theories on their own!--but also very poignant and sad. I won't spoil it, but Amos really disappointed me with his calcifications toward the end. I don't know that it's fitting that Kahneman wound up winning the Nobel while Tversky did not, but hopefully it provided closure. What a marvelous and serendipitous pairing these two were!
