https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45195.A_Passage_to_India
“Adventures do occur, but not punctually. Life rarely gives us what we want at the moment we consider appropriate.” Illustrations from the Folio Edition by Ian Ribbons.Adela Quested and Mrs. Moore have journeyed to India with the intention of arranging a marriage between Adela and Mrs. Moore’s son Ronny Heaslop. He is the British magistrate of the city of Chandrapore. He is imperial, much more so than when Adela knew him in England. ”India had developed sides of his character that she had never
His self-complacency, his censoriousness, his lack of subtlety, all grew vivid beneath a tropic sky; he seemed more indifferent than of old to what was passing in the minds of his fellows, more certain that he was right about them or that if he was wrong it didn’t matter.” My impression is that Heaslop may have been elevated rather quickly and had no time to develop his own ideas of the way things were in India, but simply borrowed the established views of the more senior British officials in India.
And hypocritical Indians who righteously accuse the Englishmen of institutionalized hatred while stringently maintaining their own brand of intolerance.
But greater than the sum of all these thematic veins is the connecting thread of Forster's sure-footed, measured prose which explores not only the inner lives of the central characters but tries to penetrate the heart of a nation-state in the making.The India depicted here is a foreign country to me - a time and a place yet to be demarcated irreversibly along lines of communal identities that are presently dominating our political rhetoric.
It's not the 'handicap of my Indian sentimentality' after all.
A Passage to India seems a bolder statement on Colonialism and racism than ever.
The Indians are thoughtful and droll, speaking about the trouble making friends with Englishmen, who become less personable the longer they are in India.
The British seem to a man all about keeping the Indian down, of holding the colony by force.
Few books I have found can sustain such interest over the years.
This time through I find myself astonished by Forster's skill at under-describing his characters.
My God, how Forster must have been hated for writing it.
Forster indicts his nation in 1924, twenty-three years before Partition.
In a rather ironic piece of narration, E.M. Forster sums up my opinion of this book perfectly:  “Most of life is so dull that there is nothing to be said about it, and the books and talk that would describe it as interesting are obliged to exaggerate, in the hope of justifying their own existence.”  Indeed, this book was so terribly dull. Ordinary, bland and mundane are all words that spring to mind. Nothing happened other than a single piece of melodrama that somehow managed to dominate the boo
“Most of life is so dull that there is nothing to be said about it, and the books and talk that would describe it as interesting are obliged to exaggerate, in the hope of justifying their own existence.” 
Like Heart of Darkness it occupies an uncertain place in the cannon of English literature; it’s not quite radical enough (and prejudice free) to be fully anti-colonial yet is still demonstrates the need for change.
It’s a book I could study, but never one I could enjoy.
Although I didn’t like this, I will still be trying another one of E.M. Forster's novels in the future.
Adela Quested, a plain looking, young , affable, and naive English school teacher, travels to distant India in the early 1920's, accompanied by the elderly , kind, Mrs. Moore, (maybe her future mother-in-law) a widow twice, and see the real country, more important, to decide if she will marry Mrs. Moore's son, the magistrate, of the unimportant city of Chandrapore, disillusioned Ronny Heaslop ( he dislikes Indians now)...Conditions are very uneasy in India, the natives hate the British rulers, and seek independence, and in turn the conquerors, despise what they perceive as an inferior, local race, besides the Hindu and Muslim populations are always ready to riot against their enemies, foreign and domestic, the tense, volatile situation needs the strong hand of the British army to keep peace, but for how long ?
Nothing can make sense in the unreality of our group think, some alternative means of perception, something more (view spoiler)[ or Moore, then again the name could be meant to suggest Moor as though, admittedly through marriage, she has a non-British outlook to start with (hide spoiler)] is required to understand.Miss Quested speaks of wanting to experience the real India, but because she lives, as almost all the characters do, in the world of illusion, her quest will be concluded but the object missed.
‘I like mysteries,’ says Mrs Moore, the novel's moral core, ‘but I rather dislike muddles.’ Elsewhere, Forster talks with something like dread of a ‘spiritual muddledom’ for which ‘no high-sounding words can be found’.The plot of this book is, at times, heart-poundingly dramatic, but Forster is careful to make sure that even this is founded on doubt and indecision.
‘For what is the present, after all,’ as Walt Whitman asked, ‘but a growth out of the past?’
So easy going - and then wham!Quentin Tarantino could learn a lot from E M Forster. He'd learn that there's no need to pile on the menace in the early stages. The shock, when it comes is much more effective if the reader/viewer has been led into thinking all is ordinary and relatively safe. Forster is a master story teller, and a true philosopher as well.
It says in the book, “friend” is the Persian expression for God. Another character says to Dr. Aziz, “Your hands are unkind….There is no pain, but there is cruelty.” He is an Oriental (in spirit), but he isn’t since he is British.
In both books readers see how well Forster draws the feel of a place, of an era and of the people.
What distinguishes Forster’s writing from others is his ability to create an atmosphere that feels utterly tangible.
I really appreciate the writing, how India is drawn and how the book makes you think.
If I missed anything important, please feel free to tell me, but I truly don't much care!Anyway......this classic and noted influential story is filled with racial tension between the Indians and British throughout the telling which I believe to be the whole point of the book, but OMYGOSH.....what a soporific read!
As the trial unfolds Adela is forced to confront the fact that everything which happened the in the caves was a product of her delicate and overwrought laydee-mind, thus presumably giving the men in the courtroom further excuse to argue, over brandy and cigars, that the colonies are no place for the "wimmin folk".I can see the point of this book, the message it was trying to convey and I can even understand why it is regarded to be literary significance but even the memory of reading it make me prone to...
Can there ever be friendship between the colonizer and colonized?
Individuals from each group?
Can that trust last?
Can it flourish?
What happens when events put it under stress?Forster has no easy answers in this book, as he dissects British colonial rule in India, and its impact on Indians and the British who have come there expressly to rule over India.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
While Forster's portrayal of Indian characters is largely - although not completely - sympathetic, he was a still a man of his time and there are some aspects of his portrayal of Indian characters which a contemporary reader is likely to find patronising.
This is one of those books I'm glad I listened to rather than read, because it allowed me to complete productive tasks while listening to those few parts of the novel which I might otherwise have skimmed.
This wasn't an issue with Kim, because it contains no female characters to speak of, but Miss Quested is a central character in this novel and Dastor's voice for her is simply awful.
In “A Room with a View”, he discussed the independence of spirit of women, in “Howards’ End”, the subtle ways the class division separates people and in “A Passage to India”, he expresses very anti-colonialist views about what was once the jewel of the crown: British-occupied India.Racial tensions and prejudices turn a misunderstanding into quite a drama.
Es Forster. Es un cinco estrellas.
These fists and fingers are the Marabar Hills, containing the extraordinary caves."Taking place in the waning years of British rule in India (although Forster, writing the book in 1924, could not have know that India would become independent in less than twenty-five years), A Passage to India is, at the surface, the story of a misunderstanding and its long-ranging consequences.
Our main characters are Dr. Aziz, a native Muslim; Mr. Fielding, a British teacher who has not yet become one of the "Anglo-Indians"; and Mrs. Moore and Miss Quested, fresh off the boat from England.
Forster’s novel, published in 1924, dealt with imperialism, showing the interactions between British and Indians in the fictional city of Chandrapore.
Forster also showed the tension between the Muslim and Hindu characters, who often were just ‘bundled’ together in the eyes of the British.Reading this, I could see the inherent incomprehension between the two sides, their wild and ungrounded assumptions in both race and religion, making the ‘explosion’ only too natural.
The other thing that I noticed from my early 21st century viewpoint is the role of women, some behaving even worse than their spouses, others trying to do the right thing, all used as pawns.
The India of Forster’s imagination is a vast, incoherent land of hostile earth and oppressive air; the weather, inhospitable to human life; the sun, a burning, penetrating force that crushes the soul; in the distance, sand, fields, bushes, more sand, more bushes, all indecipherable, all impenetrable to human reason.
The Marabar Caves are the key to the meaning of this novel, just as their counterpart in our collective unconscious is the key to understanding human existence, but that key, like the rest of India, is beyond my understanding.
Then there’s Adela, who accuses Aziz of attacking her in the Marabar cave, but we know this isn't true.
The optimistic point Forster is trying to make (I think, although I might be wrong) is that it is not cultural incompatibility that’s ruining it for everyone, it’s only the tension between the oppressors and the oppressed.
And accepting it and being aware of it is probably going to produce better results than the adorably naïve attitude like that of Mrs Moore who arrived in India, accompanying Adela, and thinking she could undo the damage of the entire socio-political structure of colonial India by simply being a nice human being.
Was conformism the true villain of this novel?It’s open to many readings and interpretations – a whole PhD could be written on gender in ‘A Passage to India’.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب که از سه بخش کلی و 37 فصل تشکیل شده است، یکی از پرفروشترین کتبِ انگلستان میباشد و به گونه ای نشان دهندهٔ قدرت و روابط استعماری غرب و نژاد پرستی میباشد که <فورستر> مسائل استعماری را در قالبِ داستان بیان نموده استداستان از آنجایی جان میگیرد که پیرزنی به نامِ <مور> به همراه عروسِ آینده اش یعنی <عادلا> به هندوستان سفر کرده اند تا مراسمِ ازدواج <عادلا> و <رونی هزلپ> پسرِ <خانم مور> را که ساکنِ هندوستان است را در آنجا برگذار کنند... زمانیکه
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب که از سه بخش کلی و 37 فصل تشکیل شده است، یکی از پرفروشترین کتبِ انگلستان میباشد و به گونه ای نشان دهندهٔ قدرت و روابط استعماری غرب و نژاد پرستی میباشد که <فورستر> مسائل استعماری را در قالبِ داستان بیان نموده است‎داستان از آنجایی جان میگیرد که پیرزنی به نامِ <مور> به همراه عروسِ آینده اش یعنی <عادلا> به هندوستان سفر کرده اند تا مراسمِ ازدواج <عادلا> و <رونی هزلپ> پسرِ <خانم مور> را که ساکنِ هندوستان است را در آنجا برگذار کنند...
أكثر من مليار شخص يتحدثون بأكثر من عشرين لغة ويعتنقون مايربو عن 6 أديان.يجمعون بين التسامح والتعصب، المسالمة والمقاومة، السذاجة والنباهة.لا يمكن أن أذكر هذه الرواية دون أن تعرج ذاكرتي على أيام دراستها في الكلية على يد طيب الذكر د.بلعيد طه شمسان، وهو يجول في القاعة كالجواد الجامح مرددا السؤال اﻷزلي عن الرواية: مالمغزى من الفصل اﻷخير وقد انتهت اﻷحداث الرئيسية ولاقى الكل مصيره؟ حماسه الفائض لا يباريه سوى لامبالاة الطلاب الذين لا يكترثون للدكتور عزيز أو الآنسة أديلا.
وينتهي العام على هذا الحال، فلا صبره الحميد ينفد ولا عزمهم الواهن يشتد.نعود إلى الرواية التي تدور حول رحلة السيدة مور وخطيبة ابنها إلى الهند حيث يشغل ابنها منصبا مهما.
M. Forster is one of those legendary greats, as mysterious as he is beloved, I would point to his writing and say the same damn thing.I'm genuinely awed.Beyond simple, clear prose, I was enraptured by the humor and odd observations in the dialogues, the irony of Colonial England ladies wanting to see "The Real India", or the great way that every single character is painted without bias or slant.
But beyond that, for a novel out of 1925 and dealing with the heart of English occupation of India and the enormous prejudices and idiocies on BOTH sides of the debate, I'm flabbergasted with the number of courageous turns and observations.
This book is a classic peace of literature. It describes the differences in the western mindset and the eastern way of thought. It shows how there are similarities in the two cultures of England and India. There are marked differences in the religeons of Hindoism, Budism, Islam, Christianity and intellectualism. I recommend this book highly to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Most of life is so dull that there is nothing to be said about it, and the books and talk that would describe it as interesting are obliged to exaggerate, in the hope of justifying their own existence.  I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about what the novel is, exactly. It’s an exceedingly flexible and fluid form. The novel can accommodate historical behemoths like War and Peace, philosophical exercises like The Brothers Karamazov, wacky experiments like Ulysses, and mythical adventures like Th
That they’re fiction?The more I read, the more I think that there are novels, and there are various novelish things that perhaps we ought not to name.
Like a great still-life, Forster’s novel doesn’t so much reveal, as remind.
A great work of science or of philosophy may make us cry out “How interesting and insightful!” But a great novel, such as this, makes us cry out “How true!
It’s both a work of art, and a superlative example of the craft of the novel.
3.5 stars rounded up because I recognize the importance of this work as part of the literary canon I just didn't love it.
I had a hard time getting into this.
To be honest I found the beginning to be a bit of a slog and if I hadn't been reading this as part of a challenge I may not have finished it.
At the start there are many many characters to keep track of and I found it hard to form any relationships with them.
I really liked the way the author showed both sides of the conflict.
I'm looking forward to reading more by this author.
This book is a classic, but its motifs of culture clash and racialism strike an unfortunate chord in current times.
Set in a time when the British controlled India, the book has several sub-themes.
One is the condescending attitude and behavior of the Brits toward the Indian people and the consequent mistrust and dislike the Indians felt toward the Brits.
Another is the vast cultural divide that made friendship almost impossible between the Indians and Brits at that time.
My problem with the book is that many of the thoughts, emotions, and behaviors that E.M. Forster attributed to the Indian people don't ring true to me.
Set against the back drop of the British Raj this books explores the question of whether there could ever be a real bond of friendship and brotherhood between people belonging to two different nations, religion, culture. Although published in 1924, this book is suggestive of the mood which eventually led to the events of 1947 in the Sub Continent.
When I first picked up this book, I was 13, and expecting to be insulted by some white guys going on about how barbaric my culture and history were and how the magnanimous British civilized us all.
The basic storyline is one of Adela and Mrs Moor touring India, but then Adela eventually convicts Dr Aziz of sexual harassment which he denies.However, the book has much more heart.
It delicately shows the impossibility of the British and Indians reconciling through the fading friendship between this group of people.
It explains how impossible it is for the white men to fully understand India and its people.
Maybe one day we will realize that different colors, religions, backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs help to paint a broader and more inclusive picture of humanity rather than insisting that only one color, one religion, one background, one culture, and one belief can be correct.
Maybe one day people will stop saying, "I don't see color" and instead say "I see color, I appreciate the differences, we can learn from each other, and diversity is good." Until then, thank whatever god you worship (or don't worship, because that's okay, too) for novels like this.
This is about a British young woman, Adela Quested falsely accusing an Indian doctor, Dr. Aziz of attempted rape.
They have different religions, traditions, superstitions and obviously the most members of the fair-skinned race always thinks that they are better than their colonized country that happens to have a darker color of skin (in the novel, some English even called Indians 'niggers').
Since Indian independence from British Raj in 1947, does this 1924 novel still have significance to the young people of the world?
I think I was too young (fresh from college) then and I had no idea about India's fight for independence in the 20's.
