https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48717.The_Quest_of_the_Missing_Map
In this book, the author makes reference a couple of times to Nancy's art school.
This is also the first book that Ned gets romantic with Nancy.
Ned also gets a little peevish and tells Nancy at the end of the book that he basically wants her attention.
I get the impression that the book was probably written in 1940 and published early in '41.
It will be interesting to see if subsequent books make any mention to the war or if Nancy and her friends just ignore it.
dated, both in the language used to refer to this characters, as well as their personalities, manner of speaking, and overall role in the storyline.However, once one recognizes these elements, inevitable for the time period, the stories themselves are often very enjoyable.
But as a one- or two-night reads, the mysteries are a very pleasant way to unwind after a day of work and every now and then provide curious little details about history and art."Quest of the Missing Map" was not different from the other Nancy Drew stories in these aspects.
I found the story overall enjoyable, although a little rushed even for a Nancy Drew mystery.
Yet another excellent addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
(In Nancy Drew novels, unpleasant people are usually the enemy.) The woman has a daughter who also introduces herself as unpleasant, but during the plot, they both redeem themselves and assist greatly with solving the mystery.
Heck, they hire a YACHT for Nancy and all of her friends, so they can go find a treasure.The plot also features a pair of unintelligent working class people, husband and wife, who on multiple occasions attempt to kidnap Nancy for no apparent reason.
The reason seems to be that Nancy always gets kidnapped.
4.8 stars, I really liked this one. It is now one of my favorites. Nancy is looking for a missing map ripped apart between two separate twins. Readers find out about a haunted music studio, ghosts, burglars and other exciting things. I like how Nancy helps the Smiths and their relatives. The only part that needs some work part when they search for hidden treasure on an island. I feel like it needs to have some more detail, but other than that, 90% of the book is absolutely amazing!
Whaddayaknow, Nancy is a skilled sketch artist!
And she has to make replicas of an old treasure map, with phony intel to throw off the thieves who are trying to steal the map.This one uses the "escape the kidnappers at a red light" trope that I've seen three times in the recent past.
She is knocked unconscious twice in this book (once by a seven-year-old throwing a mallet at her, once from falling while on a ship) and consequently isn't able to think clearly.
Placeholder for reread of Nalini Singh's Archangel's Legion
Many was full of surprises like Nancy getting kidnapped many times by Fred Brown and Irene Brown, who I found out was working with and old sailor named Spike Doty.
When Nancy, Ellen, Mrs. Chatham, Trixie, Bess, Gerorge, Ned and another friend named Bill Tomilin (related to the brothers coincidentally) where taking a boat to Little Palm Island, where they heard the Captain got sick, and some of the other members because one guy "poisoned" or put something in it to distract the members and turn them in another direction because he was working with Doty.
An unmemorable read. Some fragments: A creepy weirdo lurking behind secret panels. A brat who turns out to not be so bratty after all. Nancy being such a perfect artist she can do immaculate police sketchings now. Nancy getting kidnapped for the 3127532903540936th time to the point where she's not even fazed and actually rejoins her friends, laughing, "What'd I miss?" or something. A map torn in two, separating twin brothers. Buried treasure on an island. Nancy is nearly murdered when she's thrown overboard. She is unfazed by this too!
The Quest of the Missing Map is a pretty good book.
It has a consistant plot and has twists in the story that will make you jump out of your chair.
Even though this book is quite old and some of the words the author uses we don't use in modern day english it is still funny and suspensful.
Nancy and her friends get themselves into some pretty bad situations (no spoilers!).
the story is sometimes a little complicated, though, involving family tree's that are a bit confusing but it all gets pulled together at the end.
That is my review of this book.
I know these titles were written some years ago, but that does not explain or excuse the writing of Nancy to be so stupid - not to mention things would never play out in real life as it’s written. I’ll read the last one I have simply to say I finished the series I have, then they’re going... most likely out.
I've been reading Nancy Drew books since I was a kid. While the plots are never mind-blowing or deep Nancy Drew always feel very nostalgic to me. Most of these books were written pre-WWII so you have to take that into consideration. If you are into that then you will probably enjoy them but if you don't already have a history with Nancy then these books may not be for you.
In this Nancy Drew mystery, Nancy and her friends are after the other half of a map to a treasure island in the South Atlantic. On the same trail are a bunch of thieves who will stop at nothing to claim the treasure as their own. Exciting mystery.
This was a fun mystery, complete with a treasure hunt! The bad guys actually had a bit of bite this time, which was a refreshing change. I recommend to any looking for a culturally relevant American read for children.
Picked this up from my childhood bookshelf - and I can understand why I liked these when I was younger - and less jaded! - and could enjoy farfetched adventure, especially when it involves a map...!
This was another Nancy Drew mystery that was not familiar to me when I began reading it. She sure had her hands full with this one, ha ha.
A quick read, nothing groundbreaking or special. In any case these mysteries are fun if you want something quick and easy. Perfect for a readathon!
Happy Birthday Mildred Benson (aka Carolyn Keene) - July 1, 1905.
Couple terms I don't particularly agree with. But it was written in 1942 so it's a sign of the times.Pretty exciting adventure though.
One of the better Nancy drew books
That half had been in possession of the twin brother of Mr. Smith but the twins had lost track of each other over time.The search for the lost brother leads Nancy to a widow, Mrs. Chatham and her young daughter Trixie living on an estate not far away.
The Smiths are upset, but Nancy had drawn a copy of the now missing half of map.
The Quest of the Missing Map is the first time I have reread a Nancy Drew book since I was about 10 years old.
Ridiculous.Nancy's poor waif friend in this volume is Ellen Smith, whose dad is disabled (which is actually rather unique for this series, although it's a physical tangible reminder of his disadvantage).
Ellen asks Nancy to help her check this shit out, and Nancy's like IDK but Trixie takes a shine to her (of course, she's Nancy Fucking Drew, she is awesome and a friend to children and Disney animals).The whole point of this damn book?
Nancy has to track down the long-lost twin/twin's family to find the other half of the map and thus the treasure, which will help Ellen no longer be a poor timid waif.
Having the extended cast go along on the sail to Little Palm Island occurring very late in the book beyond seeming a little excessive also had the effect of characters jumping into the dialog who were so minor in the preceding chapters that the reader struggles to remember them (who was "Ken"?)Of course, quite a lot of sleuthing goes on by the awkwardly-referred to "Drew Girl" before the ocean-going finale.
Of course, the presence of this family does create a nasty plot whole - if they own the island why don't they own any treasure that might reside there?
The Quest of the Missing Map  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 19th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. In this intriguing adventure, Nancy is determined to find Mr. Smith's long-lost twin brother who has the part of the map that may lead all of them to a buried treasure. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls o
In this intriguing adventure, Nancy is determined to find Mr. Smith's long-lost twin brother who has the part of the map that may lead all of them to a buried treasure.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy Drew is my all time favorite detective book character, and one of my all time favorite book characters of all time.
Nancy Drew is a classic in my family.
My family and I read them together so often.
When my mom reads aloud, she sometimes adds some funny sentences, not silly non-sense sentences, but she adds something that seems like something that the characters would almost say themselves.
Nancy gets into some hot water at times, (if you ever read all the series you'll understand how this is rather funny), but she soon gets out of it.
best detective novel.
This is the 1942 version of the book.
This is another in the 'Nancy helps find missing money' plot books.
In this case, a treasure map has been torn in two and one part is missing.
There is one woman who is sort of gung-ho about finding it, another woman and her daughter who can benefit by it's being found, and, of course, the typical villains, in this case three of them.As usual, Nancy is almost run off the road, is kidnapped, is in danger, etc.
It's pretty much the standard fare, with the crooks losing and various people benefiting from the found treasure.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
I haven't been feeling too great, so it's time to re-read some Nancy Drews!
These simplistic books always bring a smile to my face - occasionally that's because I'm laughing at them, but I'll take it.
It was nice to see Nancy in art school!
Finally, she is doing something with her time between mysteries, instead of just waiting around for Ned to graduate college and marry her.
(It never actually says that, but that jives with the time period so that's what I think).
Of course, I have a feeling we will never hear mention of Nancy's art class or her artistic talent ever again.
Another light Nancy Drew mystery.
Lots of kidnapping in this one and Ned rescues Nancy more than once.
Ned's playing a bigger role in these later mysteries.
The excitement of a buried treasure on a remote island is what kids probably like about this one.
Nancy makes one pretty big mistake in this novel, which is out of character.
Normally, she is a bit more astute than to walk into a very obvious trap.
Still, it gave Ned a chance to shine and some light romance to occur.
Bess also gets rescued by her beau.
George plays a smaller role in this one.
