https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34121119-camino-island
I seriously doubt John Grisham wrote the whole thing.
I'm not saying "girly" in a negative sense at all, just a matter of tastes, but I have this very strong feeling that he had some help from a female ghostwriter, one who writes VERY differently from John Grisham.When I buy a Grisham book, I DO NOT want to end up reading a ghostwritten novel where the innocent girl with no personality ends up in bed with the rough, handsome and mysterious boss of the local literary world.
Maybe the woman who wrote that part of the book put her own personality into Mercer?
Back with another new novel, John Grisham seeks to expand his horizons with a story free of much legalese, but with the slightest hint of some criminal activity.
Sure to appeal to a different group of readers, the story offers some interesting insight into the craft of writing the next 'great novel'.
While the legal thrillers are usually quite sharp-edged, this book shows a much smoother edge to Grisham's writing.
This book will surely create a stir, both good and bad, for the vast number of Grisham fans.
A first print version in impeccable condition sends his heart racing.....almost as much as a shapely woman swinging her hips and opening the bookstore door at the same time.Enter Mercer Mann who grew up on Camino Island and is a fledgling writer with a brief kiss of fame.
A deal is struck in which Mercer will go undercover and try to get the goods on the elusive Bruce Cable.
Mercer doesn't realize that someone else may be trying to get a foothold into Cable's backdoor operations as well.John Grisham presents quite a different read this time.
(As a librarian and also as someone who wants literary archives to be protected, I liked that Grisham completely made up the details of the theft and didn't base it on the real library layout, because he didn't want anyone trying to imitate the crime in real life.) After the Fitzgerald manuscripts are stolen, we watch the police and FBI work the case, but when the trail goes cold, investigators decide to send in someone undercover.Enter Mercer, an aspiring novelist who is tasked with infiltrating the social world of Bruce Cable, a bookseller in Camino Island, Florida, who is suspected of purchasing the stolen manuscripts.
We follow the stolen papers and see how they eventually end up on Camino Island, Florida, in the hands of Bruce Cable, a local bookstore owner.The story is light and entertaining IF you are interested in writing or literary history.
Hard to relate to or root for.I found Bruce very interesting and wish there was more of his story.I also could have done without all the romance stuff-ick.
What's the world coming to??The story is going along and all of a sudden, it's epilogue time and all over.
But, only if you go in knowing there isn't a mystery or any "thriller" scenes typically found in a Grisham novel.
In this case, it seemed like any time Grisham wanted something to fit he would be like, “Well, it just so happens that over here is the exact thing we were discussing!” It’s a bit silly, but only mildly distracting.One thing I liked a lot compared to Grisham’s recent efforts is that it felt fresh and unique.
I feel like he plans his plot and scenes around food.
I dare you to try and find a Grisham where he doesn’t mention what people are eating every few pages, characters are not planning a get together based around food, or the main character doesn’t stop of somewhere for beer and burgers to contemplate what just happened.
I got like 140 pages in and did a lot of eye rolling, skipped ahead to read the ending and then rolled my eyes one last time and moved on.
Every time I read a book by John Grisham, I am consistently reminded of what a great storyteller he is.
I wasn’t 10 pages into his new book “Camino Island” and I knew that I would be spending most of the day focused on reading it.
The manuscripts end up in a secondary black market and a young female writer, Mercer Mann, is hired to go undercover an investigate a popular independent bookstore owner and prominent dealer in rare books that is thought to have or know who is in possession of the manuscripts.
Even though this book is one of his shorter ones (just under 300 pages), it is well worth the time.
Seldom has such a good premise and beginning of a novel fallen as far and as fast as this. The story languishes with not one, but two inept agencies looking for perpetrators, despite apprehending some immediately. The weak and incomplete ending finishes this bottomless piece. 0 of 10 stars
This isn't a "John Grisham book", it's a bit of froth.
It's starts off well with The Heist (that's not a spoiler it's the title of the first chapter).
Then it descends into aimless meanderings among the colony of authors on the island.
Almost zero suspense.
Absolutely zero "thrills".
If you want an extremely gentle ride through the soporific world of book authors then it will be good I suppose.
Otherwise grab a different Grisham book (I'm a huge fan by the way).To be fair I think Grisham was indeed trying for "something different".
I just wanted to give you a heads-up before you spend your bucks.
Camino Island was a disappointment. This is really just a beach read. Not much substance. I really didn’t care for the audiobook. The narrator had an uninteresting voice and I didn’t like her style. Maybe the book was better to read rather than listening to? I continued on as it was only 7 cds.I’m giving up on Grisham. As everyone on Goodreads, my TBR list is extensive and there are many higher caliber books to get going on.3 out of 5 stars.
Seldom has such a good premise and beginning of a novel fallen as far and as fast as this. The story languishes with not one, but two inept agencies looking for perpetrators, despite apprehending some immediately. The weak and incomplete ending finishes this bottomless piece. 0 of 10 stars
Starting on page 237 to 238, one of his cardboard cutout characters, gives advice on how to right a good book/bestseller:"I'll give any book a hundred pages, and if by then the writer can't hold my attention i'll put it away.
There are too many good books I want to read to waste time with a bad one."Geez.
A veiled hat tip to Grisham's author friends?
It's chock full of paper thin characters and most are not pleasant or interesting.
queries by a character to herself/himself like: "Should I wear socks?".
Grisham calls this his "beach read".
More like a Beach Toss Into the Ocean.
It's divided into sections, each of which details the relevant characters and events pretty much on a minute-by-minute basis."The Heist," the opening section, brings readers an up-close-and-personal look at the robbers and how they planned the job and carried off the loot.
She's desperately trying to get out of a writing slump, hoping to get published and sell enough books to pay off her massive student loans and live the life of a successful writer.In earlier days, Mercer was a frequent visitor to Camino Island and thus is familiar with its small tourist town of Santa Rosa, where Bruce's bookstore is located.
The FBI is called in and despite a promising start the ring leader and manuscripts disappear.Bruce Cable owns a bookstore in the small resort town of Santa Rosa on Camino Island in Florida.
Few people know he also deals in the black market of stolen books and manuscripts.
A generous offer of money and having her student debt paid off convinces Mercer to go undercover and get close to Bruce Cable.
It would appear that he made a quick deal to sell the stolen manuscripts but suddenly he is back.
1. Grisham is one of my favorite authors.2. I have read all 37 of his previous works listed in the front of this novel.3. Every one of them has been a good story; many were great.4. His characters, stories, and writing pull you right in and along.5. I have hardcover copies of all of his works.6. I usually purchase them the first day they go on sale.7. I often read them in one sitting.8. I read this one in one sitting and enjoyed it very much.
As close to chicklit as Grisham could get (accomplished woman in dire straits is only person in the world who can help the FBI nail their man). But the writing is trademark crisp, and who wouldn't love a story where the mcguffin is the original manuscript for The Great Gatsby.
I don't read alto of John Grisham, legal thrillers are not really my thing. But, this is more of a crime novel. It makes me realize, I may be missing out, Mr. Grisham is a great writer. I've seen the movies, but his books have eluded me. I loved everything about this story! It provided a look into a world I enjoy visiting, but know little about. This is a tale about book stores, books, and trafficking of stolen tomes and manuscripts. It's gripping, engaging, and quite entertaining. Grab a copy... It delivers!
4.5 Stars. It's been a long time since I've read John Grisham because the books all started to sound the same. However, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.
In one of my book groups just now many of us have been feeling a bit in a book reading rut or slump lately, me included.
At all times I am reading an audiobook, a regular book, and an ebook.
I know I said audiobooks have kept me in the groove, but John Grisham and Camino Island went above and beyond here.
F. Scott Fitzgerald's original manuscripts are stolen from Purdue's library, and it's suspected that one of them at least has ended up in a thriving bookstore on Camino Island.
Book starts off great with a robbery of the Fitzgerald original manuscripts from Princeton, a very good action sequence.
Then to me the story slowed down for a short while when it was setting up the rest of the book.
But then it got very comfortable with a cozy pace in an environment of a group of authors in small seaside community and their local bookstore with the colorful owners who love authors.I so enjoyed their meetings, their suppers, and their conversation, I couldn't wait to get back and see what happened next.And as a backdrop, you are put into the world of the illegal trading of valuable first editions of books.This was book was different.
Meanwhile, on touristy Camino Island, Bruce Cable runs a popular bookstore/coffee shop.
But few of those authors, or Bruce's patrons, know that Bruce keeps a vault in his shop housing a variety of rare books and manuscripts--some stolen.
His books are often an easy escape, and CAMINO ISLAND falls into that category.
CAMINO ISLAND is a change from most of Grisham's legal thrillers--there are no lawyers or court room scenes here, just some tricky criminals, a heist, and the aftermath.
You can read my reviews of Grisham's novels GRAY MOUNTAIN here and ROGUE LAWYER here.Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Google+ ~ Instagram
Mercer is a currently unemployed teacher and a struggling writer/novelist who had a grandmother on the island, while Bruce is a bookstore owner and a patron for several authors who regularly visit Camino Island as a publicity hop.Mercer also gets to Bruce’s colorful life with his literary friends and his wife, and tries to find inspiration for her work.
You should read Camino Island to find out.While it has been a few years since I read Grisham’s books, I have loved his legal thrillers and have been a true Grisham fan.
But Camino Island seemed nothing like those high tension dramas, even with the awesome literary characters.Bruce is the ultimate bad boy dream come true.
I feel like prior to my review I should say that I read very little mystery and crime, and joined the book swap to get exposed to more.I associate John Grisham pretty exclusively with courtroom drama, particularly those made into films.
She is hired to help with the investigation because of her ties to Camino Island (she used to spend summers there.)And this, for me, is where the author and I disagreed on the point of the book.
I think the author just wanted to write a scenario where this was working with no drama, which makes me think he's trying to convince his significant other that it can work.
A disappointment. I usually love Grisham's stuff, although I haven't read anything of his in awhile. Maybe this is typical of his later works. The setting was interesting, and some of the details about rare book collecting were informative. However, the characters were flat, the plot weak, and the suspense almost nonexistent. The POV wavered, which was annoying. All telling, no showing.
4 stars There is not a lot that I can say about John Grisham that I have not already said in other reviews.
I especially like his attorney/crime novels, however this particular book is not status quo.
This book does contain a crime - but no court room and the criminals, prisoners and attorneys are mentioned briefly.
I am not a fan of most of Grisham's non-legal novels, however I did enjoy this one.
It seems that crime does sometimes pay.
A young novelist goes under cover in an attempt to recover the lost manuscripts, which have fallen into the hands of a charming charismatic book shop owner.
I really enjoyed this Grisham novel. I listened to the audio and the narrator did a fabulous job which only increased my enjoyment. So if the page version is not working for you, try the audio.I particularly liked the ending. Any other ending I think would have punctured the whole story. There were so many things to like about this one: the dialogue, the characters and their development, the setting, and the story line. This was all woven together nicely. So 4 stars.
Very disappointed in this book. Doesn't come close to being as good as any of his other books. It seemed as I was reading a book by someone posing as Grisham. Character development was poor at best. I look forward to another book written up to his abilities.
3.5*This isn’t like a lot of Grisham’s other books but it was still enjoyable in my opinion. I loved the plot centering on the heist of first edition manuscripts by Fitzgerald. I believe a lot of readers will like the literary history but if you’re looking for the Grisham legal thriller then you might want to look further. This is more adult fiction than legal thriller. My quick and simple overall: entertaining and a change from the legal thrillers. Grisham is the type of author who has the ability to write different things so obviously it is still pretty good.
This was a quick, easy read and quite typical of the recent Grisham novels. This time Mr Grisham tackles the theft of the F. Scott Fitzgerald manuscripts from the Firestone Library at Princeton University. It pits the FBI, the insurance company, and others against the thieves and the book dealer who winds up with the stolen manuscripts. Good fun is achieved as we read of the interplay between a very clever book dealer, his wife, authors, and other residents of Camino Island where the bulk of the action takes place.
