https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375108.Miracle_on_34th_Street
First airing in theaters in 1947, and based on a story by Valentine Davies (though the actual screenplay was by George Seaton) Miracle on 34th St. is one of America's better-known and beloved classic Christmas movies.
BUT, I also believe it's possible to reject a materialist and egoistic view of the universe without necessarily equating this with a claim that an immortal man in a red suit lives at the North Pole and delivers gifts to all the world's children via their chimneys on Christmas Eve; and that one can recognize the limits of reason without actually disparaging reason ("Faith is believing in things when common sense tells you not to" is, unfortunately, a prime example of the latter).
I loved following Susan's path from skeptic to unabashedly believing in the existence of Santa Claus.
I think the note I loved the best and I am inferring it; is at the end of a chapter where Fred is left anxiously wondering what "competent source" he can produce for the Judge to prove the existence of Santa Claus.
I turned to page 104 and see boxed in with READ in capital letters next to the message that Susan writes to Kris Kringle professing her belief in Santa Claus.
Sometimes faith is all you need to have as a competent source to support belief.
It has dark blue fabric, and the picture is of some beautiful animals and a seriously awesome St. Nicholas, wearing pale blue and looking rather fierce.I chose this pattern because I've never really liked the traditional Santa Claus – all omni-benevolent and generically sweet.
Some of my most important relationships are with people who don't technically exist.So I don't understand or agree with the idea that the way to give children imagination is to tell them a story and then insist the characters in that story really exist.
I am currently reading a book called Miracle on 34th Street, by Valentine Davies.
"If you searched every old folks' home in the country, you couldn't find anyone who looks more like Santa Clause," Davies mentions.
"He was a living, breathing incarnation of the old gent-white beard, pink cheeks, fat tummy and all," Davies describes.
His white whiskers made him look a good seventy-five, and yet when he laughed or walked you would swear he wasn't a day over fifty," Davies writes, that line is my favorite because it makes him sound old and young.
Reading Miracle on 34th Street will put you in a Christmas mood like no other -- I know it did for me!The book closely follows the old black and white film of the same name, and the book also has a true vintage quality to it, making it seem timeless.
It's enjoyable for any age, I believe.Finally, I found a book that is worthy of rivaling A Christmas Carol of taking the title of "THE CHRISTMAS BOOK" (for me, anyways).
It's a book that puts holiday warmth into your heart, and adds a dash of humor for good measure.It's a perfectly jolly read.*Book completed for A Literary Christmas reading challenge at inthebookcase.blogspot.com.
Even after watching both movie versions over & over again, the B&W version when I was still a child, I had never read the book. I loved every little bit of it!!
The 1940s Christmas classic moves from the big screen to between covers in this beautifully written story. Miracle on 34th Street reminds us "Christmas is not just a day, it's a state of mind" of wonder and joy. The perfect book to read with a steaming mug under your Christmas tree. For more on Miracle on 34th Street, we discussed it as a community towards the end of our November Book Club meeting.
LOVE LOVE LOVE! Brings back the magic of Christmas.
I remembered seeing illustrations by him for Oz, and I like good illustrations for children's books.The short novel is written by Valentine Davies, who also wrote the screenplay for the movie.
My kids are not familiar with the movie--and even I have only seen it once (and I can't even recall if it was the original black and white film or the 1994 color remake, which shows what small effect it had on me)--so the story in novel form was new and fresh.
The book and the film each contain some scenes that aren't found in the other, which makes it a good pairing to read and watch both.
Valentine Davies got the idea for this well-know novella while standing in line at a store during Christmas season.
Valentine Davies wrote the story and they were released at the same time.
It was a pleasure reading it though the story line was the same as the original 1947 movie.
The story did help clarify who was who some because the men all looked alike to me in the movie with the exception of Fred, Mr. Macy, and Kris Kringle.An added pleasure, I was reading a library copy from 1947 and the printing type was such that I could feel the texture of the lettering though the back of the page, as if it had been completely typed.
Written clear back in 1947 and it's still as warm and humorous today.
I don't know where I even got this book, probably it was one I inherited from my mother-in-law's collection of books.
It just seemed like a good little story to read for the Christmas season.
My only complaint is that I wished for a little more development of the romance--I think what I wanted was a little longer story, really.
I suspect the movie adds all those missing details.
Miracle on 34th Street is a light, tickle-your-funny-bone, sweetly rewarding short story to read during December.
I usually watch this movie every year, but really enjoyed reading it this year. The book was written after the movie, and it obviously follows the movie exactly. A very quick read. I liked the historical background at the end about Valentine Davies life, and some info on the movie. It was interesting to read the Valentine Davies died at 55 "in the midst of a hearty laugh!" My favorite quote from the book: 'Anyone could have faith when everything was fine. But real faith meant believing, rain or shine.'
This is my favorite Christmas movie and until I ran across this book in a used book store, I did not know there was a book version. It's a very quick read and mirrors the movie. Still loved it even though I knew the plot by heart! A true heartwarming classic. The introduction was very interesting as it discussed the author and how the book and movie came to be. Definitely recommend to any lover of the movie!
This may be the first ever novelization of a film. It was written by the screenwriter and published just before the film was released. I loved the story - and as I read the film (the original) played in my mind - which wasn't so bad because it's one of my favorites of the season. "Faith is believing when common sense tells you not to" is the famous quote from the story/film.
What an awesome way to start off the holiday season!! There were, of course, no surprises in this book as I've seen the movie several times, but what a joy to read. This book will have to be a tradition at my house around Christmas to be followed by the movie of course. Highly recommend.
A far better story than I remember and I am glad that I have taken the time to revisit this piece. Quick fun read that helps with the season's spirit.
This is a case of a movie that becomes a book. I’ve seen the movie so many times I know every line, but it was still an enjoyable holiday read!
I was looking for some christmassy reads this year when I first discovered that my all time favorite christmas movie was actutally a book as well.
Even though I watched the movie again this year I really enjoyed reading the book also.
Even though I loved the book it read a little like a script to me.
But I still think that this is a perfect read for christmas and of course a must for everyone who loves the movie just as much as I do.
This was a cute book. I had watched the movie before I read the book and the nice thing is that they go hand in hand. I enjoyed the book and thought it was a cute way to share the story of Kris Kringle and how he looks like an everyday man and can make dreams come true. Always believe.
The book read a lot like a script to me; usually when you read a book, you feel more connected to the characters than you would during a movie.
But I felt the exact opposite while reading this book--I didn't feel very connected to the characters and felt I knew them better from the movie.
Although, I do wonder if the reason for that is that this is a children's book and not a true novel.I do really love the point of the book: to remind us of the spirit of Christmas.
I have almost always loved the movie.
I can now say that I love the book.
True, it is not substantially different from the movie.
I liked these differences small as they may be.
The book may not be as detailed and descriptive as a typical novel; it still has a movie-feel to it: going from scene to scene without pausing to ponder or describe.
If I read the book first, would I get a sense, true sense, of the characters?
I'd like to think so.
But it's hard to come to this story new.
I know this story.
I love this story.
I remember seeing the black-and-white film of this on VHS when I was in the 7th grade, so I thought it'd be fun to read the book. It's a wonderful story that's still relevant today, with humor and love and a really important lesson about letting kids be kids and not doubting things right away.
Santa lives at Macy’s! Even though I knew the ending cause I knew the movie, still made me cry :) I’m not sure you can mingle Goodreads reviews in with political posts but I finished it as the world is learning Moore did NOT triumph in Alabama. There is indeed a Santa. Merry Christmas to all!
susan I speak french but that doesn’t make me joan of arc
The book, with 3 months of being edited, published, etc, was release in June.
Even my grandpa doesn't recall that (but due to the fact of being to busy working than reading and watching movies at that time).Being that I know the movie nearly by heart, reading the book was very fun.
But being that I know the story so well, imagining how the character's dialogue and such was good.
Valentine Davies' story is a very nice feel-good one that reminds us of the true meaning of Christmas - miracles, faith and joy without the commercialism.The movie stays close to true to Davies' book.
I'm one of those few people who have never seen the movie.
That said, I decided to read the book.
I was basically familiar with the story.
While I really enjoyed the plot line and the idea behind the story, I thought the writing was a little simplistic.
But I've seen this before with other books that were originally movies/plays.
That negative point aside, it is still a good book worth reading.
The particular book that I read had illustrations by Tomie dePaola.
He is one of my favorite illustrators.
The illustrations helped to enhance my reading experience.
This book reads like a poorly written adaptation of a movie. It's so bad, I'm not even going to bother finishing it because I've never seen this movie (*gasps*) and I'd really like to one day. At this moment, if I never see the movie I'd be fine and how sad is that. I'd recommend avoiding picking this up at the library if you do so happen to see it by chance and get excited thinking it's the perfect holiday read, like someone (*coughMEcough*) did. Peace out.
I'm sure that I enjoyed this because I pictured the movie, the original movie, as I was reading this. This is one of a few instances where the movies (I like the remake too) are better than the book. If I'd read the book as a standalone, without having seen the movie version, I assume I'd have given this 3, or even 2, stars only, even though I would have loved the premise.
I find it interesting that the movie & book's popularity have declined in recent years. Is this because we have ceased to believe in people's goodness? In magic? Or is it that the style- a lawyer who can prove that Santa exists, a subtle love story, a plot moved more by dialogue than action- that doesn't draw an audience? Still, I love the simplicity of the story, its hopefulness.
I read this book in the late 1960s while home from college for Christmas. It is a short book and I finished it in one evening. I had taken a course in logic and remember thinking how the author "proved" there was a Santa Claus and that it was Kris Kringle. I started believing in Santa again myself.This is a wonderful little book that should help put anyone in the mood for Christmas.
