https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/579696.Our_Dumb_Century
This book is the best gift in the world, for two reasons.
First, anyone you give it to will love it, and you have therefore given a successful gift to a loved one.
Second, if the person who receives the gift does not like it, it's a sure sign that he or she is not someone you should have anything to do with, much less give a gift to.
For more on how to join the national campaign to convince motel 6 to replace the bible with this book in every one of their fucking hotel rooms, please respond to this post.
I recall an Onion article just after the 2000 election jokingly talking about how Bush was going to reverse the clinton years and pick up where his father left off. It talked about making tax refunds, starting a new war in Iraq, and running the economy down. It's rather frightening to think about it coming to the end of two terms. The world is a strange place; I'm surprised it's still here.
There's just nothing as amusing for a brief read as a made-up front page of The Onion. Good times.
I think this book marked the peak for the Onion. It reviews headlines of the 20th century as they would have appeared if the Onion had been published since 1900. Some are laugh-out-loud funny, though as usual there tends to be much more hilarity in the headlines and accompanying photographs than in the articles themselves. Other Onion books are not as consistently amusing (including the recent "Our Dumb World"). "Our Dumb Century" succeeds as well as it does because it is a natural outgrowth of the paper itself. Get one for your bathroom!
As though the Onion had been around for the whole twentieth century. I think this is the funniest of the Onion books. Sample headlines:1. 1951: "Morty and Betty Crocker Executed for Selling Top-Secret Cake Recipes to Reds."2. 1905: "The Machine: Will it Replace the Chinaman."3. 1939: "Hitler Neutralizes the Polish Menace."Humor, history and social criticism. Really funny!
Man Ventures Outside HatlessMartin Luther King: I Had a Really Weird Dream Last NightFDR: The Only Thing We Have to Fear is a Decade-long, Crippling DepressionMan Walks on Fucking MoonChristian Right Ascends to Heaven-- Nobody does it better than The Onion
This is satire at its best - satire of journalism, of history, of the self-important and often poorly informed "USA USA USA!" mentality. It covers much if not all of the ground as Zinn's "People's History," with the added bonus of a great deal more laughs.
"Empire of Japan makes alliance with white supremacists in well thought-out scheme." - case closed.

One evening at a hotel in Escanaba, Michigan, while on the road for work, a colleague and I sat around with a couple bottles from the brew pub where we had eaten dinner and read bits from this book out loud to each other. I don't remember ever laughing so hard. This collection of fake newspaper articles perfectly achieves what it sets out to do--it hilariously skewers everyone and everything from 1900 to 1999. If this book doesn't make you laugh, you need professional help.
Browsed through since there's really no way anyone would read this thick tome. "Headlines" and mock newspaper stories and layout page after page after page.
Proof that satire is alive and well in America.
Profound, moving, relevant.
Best bathroom book of all time.
The Onion's satire is a cut above and this audiobook of humorous takes on newsworthy headlines and highlights from the 1900s does not disappoint. I found it to be absolutely hilarious and I can't wait to listen to it again.
I bought this thinking it was a compilation of articles from The Onion, and was surprised it was all new material made to look as though it was a best of from an entire century. It is superbly well done. The Onion has had many fine moments but this may well be their finest.
For fans of The Onion, this is a great collection of the best of their early material.
Hilarious book!
One word: Genius.
4 stars- Ms. Jenn
Remember when you could tell The Onion headlines from actual ones? Heh, those were the days...
This is CLASSIC Onion hilarity
Simply indispensable for understanding our zeitgeist.
The Onion's acerbic wit and sarcastic humor never fail to raise a fit of laughter out of me, and to have several hundred pages of it in one convenient parcel is one of God's little gifts to mankind.
The often-hilarious left-column bullets (this is newspaper speak, people) provide much of the humor, and one in particular is an instant classic.
Writing of the death of Jerry Garcia, the clever and near-palindromic line "Head Dead-Head Dead" initiated instant bits of laughter from me, especially because I realize what many people do not: The Grateful Dead were never that good.
It doesn't even include the whole articles, just the front of them.Well, since I read the onion on the website theonion.com almost every day, this book was a little extraneous.
But the main thing about it was that it only cost $3 on clearance at Borders.
I guess people didn't want to buy it because you can literally see all of these articles online.Well I bought this book last week, and I think I've already read it through 5 times or so.
In my lifetime I'm guessing I'll read it through at least 1000 or more times.
Holy hell was this a funny read!
Anyone who is a fan of American history and a fan of humor I definitely suggest this read.
The book is pretty simple, just about every year between 1900 and 2000 get's one or more front pages from the onion.
Of course, the onion wasn't really around during that time but this is what it would have looked like.
It’s a book written by the The Onion, it’s a collection of funny headlines, it’s meant to make you laugh and it does that pretty well.
It’s not a story, it’s not real articles, it’s essentially a collection (compendium?) of The Onion headlines from their newspaper and website that covers the entire century.
Hard to recommend for those on a budget, but if you can get it on sale and want something funny on your shelf grab this – however I would suggest The Onion’s Our Dumb World or perhaps the The Daily Show books first.When you need a laugh, pick it up, flip to a random page, start reading the news.
The Onion has a sort of rhythm to its humor that becomes detectable with repeated exposure, to the point where it ruins some of the magic. And mocking the inverted period means that many if not most of its jokes are funniest in the headlines and gradually lose steam as the article goes on, sometimes coming back with a twist at the end but not reliably. For all that, it has a wonderfully unfiltered and observant perspective on modern American life, and the jokes in this book are jokes it's clearly meant to tell for a while.
Outrageously hilarious satire from The Onion, with a headline page for various historically significant events of the 20th century. It expects a certain amount of prior knowledge from its readers to understand the humor. Beyond the headlines themselves, reading the text of the articles is a delight, as is catching the smaller jokes (such as a "report" on a street fight between the Sharks and the Jets). Totally worth it for the WWII pages and the moon landing reports (and "transcripts!") alone.
The Onion's look at some of the big (and small) stories that hit the US during the 20th century.Like all Onion publications, this was another hilarious take on the news and news reporting industry. 'Our Dumb Century' is brilliant with each page consistently funny. As the title suggests, it is very US centric which is fine barring the odd story (more recent) that maybe arent as well known internationally, but despite this there were far far more hits than misses! Brilliant!
