https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3410425-divine-justice
While the writing is clear the plot is over convoluted. The protagonist doesn't have a cape, but emerges from most situations on top of the heap. The end was predictable. Nice characters.
John has left a note for the other Camel Club members not to look for him and forget that he ever existed, he doesn't expect to survive this ordeal.
Of course the club are not about to abandon John, no matter what.John ends up in a small mining town, Divine, in the middle of nowhere.
He soon finds out that all is not well in Divine.
And of course there are bad guys and good guys.
Ok, this is my first Baldacci, and I know this is part of a series, but stop me if you've heard this one: a former spy/cop/assassin is on the run after getting vengeance on the people who killed his wife/child/parent/partner and finds himself mixed up with a child/woman/town who needs protection from the local drug dealers/gang bangers/corrupt officials.
I also really liked the component of his friends, the Camel Club, which isn’t normally a part of the loner fiction this usually belongs to.
I didn’t feel like I lacked for having not read the rest of the series and even though this isn’t my normal cup of tea, I’d still be interested in reading another.
One of my favorites, Alex Ford, finds himself in some tight spots as he struggles with his sense of right and fair play when it comes to Oliver vs his role as law enforcement.Again, read this as an audiobook and the narrator, Ron McLarty, added to the experience with his reading and the character portrayals.
I noticed on the next book on audio, they've added a female narrator and I'm not sure how I'm going to like that as it maybe too distracting with two voices in the same conversation.
David Baldacci is one of my fave authors and this is on my fave series especially with the addtion of Annabelle.The story like was good and gripping, hooked you from the start to the end. You wonder what luck Oliver has going into a small town with this mysterious happenings going on.I like the new friend he made, Joe Knox, and glad to see Harry Finn return also.Over all, a really good suspsenseful read to the end. Fans will not be dissapointed.
"Oliver Stone" is on the run, and run he must!
Really enjoyed this book in "The Camel Club" series.From the blurb: Known by his alias, "Oliver Stone," John Carr is the most wanted man in America.
He, more than anyone, wants Stone dead.With their friend and unofficial leader in hiding, the members of the Camel Club risk everything to save him.
Now, as the hunters close in, Stone's flight from the demons of his past will take him from the power corridors of Washington, D.C., to the small, isolated coal-mining town of Divine, Virginia-and into a world every bit as lethal as the one he left behind.
This was an adventure between misery and death.
Since Oliver chose to take the law into his own hands, he's been sought after by non other than Macklin Hayes, a general Stone served under and he's still holding a grudge against Stone and his actions many years ago.Stone's on the run and ends up in a town called Divine, West Virgina.
Saving himself from Hayes's grips will be easy compared to what he endures in Divine.Exciting to read and another page turner.
The story pulls you into it with the simple descriptions and narrative writing skills the author uses.
The story is very believable.
The 4th entry in the Camel Club series finds our everyman hero, Oliver Stone, resurrected from his dive off a cliff after assassinating a senator and a high level intelligence officer. If he wanted to staff off the radar, this is a bad choice.Oliver takes a train, and ends up befriending a young man and following him to his hometown, a haven of nastiness.Yes, this is fiction, and the characters are likable, but the coincidences are multiple and exasperating.
divine justice is another Camel Club novel, this time set in Divine, a small mining town in Virginia.
This book continues the brand but it can be read as a standalone novel as there is loads of back story about Oliver.You start reading divine justice and you wonder, why has Oliver stumbled across this or that?
This novel is light reading and you know that our hero, Oliver, will turn out okay.
Later on Reuben takes his motorcyle out of the van and rides happily away.
I suggest you give it a MISS as divine justice is not one of David's best.
In this novel, JOhn Carr, a super killer, but now much older, has just assassinated two government officials who were directly involved in killing his wife and daughter, and is on the run.
JOhn Knox is called in by Macklin Hayes, a brigadier general to try to find out who killed the two government officials.
Meanwhile, the Camel Club is also hunting for Carr to help him.Carr, however, has ended up in a small mining town which seems to be very affluent -- too affluent, with a series of murders of local townspeople.
EXCELLENT. VERY INTERESTING.
As payback for their dirty deeds, Camel Club member "Oliver Stone", murders a US Senator and an Intelligence Chief and has no choice but to flee Washington DC.
On his way out of town Oliver saves another one of Divine's young men and now the whole town knows his face when he seeks nothing more than anonymity.
But the trouble doesn't stop there and Oliver is targeted by a group of men who are covering up Divine's biggest secret.
This is the fourth book from Baldacci featuring the Camel Club and I highly recommend reading the other three books first.
This was the 4th book of the series. I didn't like it as much because the Camel Club wasn't in it much. It was about Oliver Stone on the run and what he gets mixed up in a little town.
A new character is introduced in the form of CIA investigator and master tracker Joe Knox and I was very happy to see his character progression as he is tasked to find the elusive Oliver Stone.For fans of the Camel Club series, this is an important book in the overall story arc and much of Oliver’s prehistory is uncovered and dealt with.
I do hope readers tackle this series in order because of the powerful overall story arcs that reach across all the books.
This book, like all Baldacci thrillers is a fast-paced, easy-to-read, page turner that is pure energetic fun.
These choices allowed David Baldacci to create more three-dimensional, realistic, and believable characters for his audience.Furthermore, to say that I thoroughly enjoyed reading this novel would be a gross understatement in expressing just how much I truly did enjoy it from the first word to the last.
DIVINE JUSTICE, the fourth novel included in The Camel Club series, is the sixth David Baldacci novel that I have read recently.
After having such a palpable reaction to reading DIVINE JUSTICE, I can't fathom the future that awaits Oliver Stone and his closest friends in the next novel included in The Camel Club series.
He flees south on a train, hoping to make it to New Orleans, where he hopes to lose himself in the chaos of a rebuilding city.He never makes it.On the train, he helps a young man out of a fight, and Oliver winds up going back to the younster's home town, Divine, Virginia.The novel treads many lines--we see a city dweller's amused look at small town life, and at the same time there is a real respect for the communitarian values in a small town.
"Divine Justice" is the latest and least of The Camel Club quartet of novels by David Baldacci.
While "Stone Cold" culminated the series just about perfectly, "Divine Justice" feels like a weak add-on.
It starts promising enough, Baldacci putting Oliver Stone on the run, flushed from his secret identity and the subject of a federal manhunt, but the story quickly fizzles.
One thing is for sure: I hope this is the last book I read where an antagonist is undone by confessing his villainy into a secret recording device.
Very entertaining and fast paced book. Easy to read, almost like watching a good movie. The characters are well developed, although reading the first few books of this short series first would probably make it even more enjoyable. Moderately predictable, and at times far-fetched, but still entertaining and a nice book to read over the holiday break.
#4 IN THE CAMEL CLUB SERIES WOW! If you’ve missed this series, run and get it. You’d be in for a heck of a thrill ride! Better than Will Robie and John Puller! LOVE OLIVER STONE! I LOVE THE CAMEL CLUB!
Baldacci continues to amaze me with all these plots complemented by his superb writing. A chase for Carr, a super-max prison, a prison break...this book came pretty loaded. Like always, all the characters had depth in their back stories and were not merely cardboard caricatures.
Read the review of the entire Camel Club series at my my blogDivine Justice is an excellent follow-on to Stone Cold.
It continues from where the previous book left off, with John Carr killing his two adversaries.
He then gets to a place called Divine where the nation wide search finally finds him, just as he is getting embroiled in local crime.Divine Justice has shades of Witness (the Harrison Ford movie) with the change in focus from a big metro to the bucolic countryside.
John Carr is an unkillable machine where required and a bumbling idiot when the plot requires it.
A great page-turner in the ‘as expected’ spy- thriller series by Baldacci. #4 in the series featuring the Camel Club, Oliver Stone is hiding out in small town America, Divine. All the usual players, the hero, the damsel, the villains (& there are plenty) and their side-kicks; it does not disappoint. A great, fast-paced read (despite the predictability and some stretches of the imagination) it is a great multilayered thriller. Well worth the read!
#4 I am so glad I began reading David Baldacci's books in order from the beginning. I do believe there are corrupt prisons also along with our government. It is as simple as knowing someone who worked until he had " arrived " and made what he thought was happy money to the point where he stopped working and became above even his boss. Like Hayes became too big for his britches !
This is the conclusion to Stone Cold and is a better tale, I think. Or, at least it’s told better. Trouble just comes to Stone, and this story is a good example of this.
Audio
Oliver Stone hat es derweil in das kleine Örtchen Divine, Virginia, verschlagen, wo es längst nicht so göttlich zugeht wie man vom Nahmen her vermuten könnte.Fast schon wie gewohnt ist diese vierte Geschichte um Oliver Stone und die anderen Mitglieder des Camel Club ausgesprochen spannend.
Dieses ur-amerikanische Element der Ehre auf dem Feld, die honoriert werden sollte, der ewig nachtragende Hayes, der Carr eine gewisse Sache immer noch übel nimmt, die Sache mit den Dreisechsern, deren Existenz so unglaublich ist, dass man doch schon wieder einen leisen Zweifel hat, ob es wirklich reine Fiktion ist.
I'm halfway done and here is my prediction for the ending: protagonist jumps with no parachute from Sean Hannity's chopper into the White House and literally wrestles the U.S. Constitution from Obama's hands right before Obama tears it into tiny pieces while simultaneously proving during a live teleconference that Obama is actually a Kenyan citizen.**************SPOILER ALERT*****************Now that I've finished the book, sadly I'm reporting that Obama wasn't in this book.
So Protagonist somehow ends up recording a confession from said senator and playing it for the POTUS while he has like a 90 minute discussion with POTUS and proves his innocence to POTUS who not only pardons him, but gives him a medal of honor.
In the first book we met the four members of the Camel Club, a group of senior citizens who meet to discuss the U.S. government and conspiracy theories; Oliver Stone, the name taken by a man once known as the best American Assassin John Carr, due to Stone’s (the real Oliver Stone) conspiracy theory based movies and the unofficial leader of the group; Reuben Rhodes, a former employee of the Defense Intelligence Agency and presently a dock worker; Caleb Shaw an employee of the Rare Book Wing of the Library of Congress and Milton Farb, a child prodigy who suffers from OCD and paranoia.
It is not my typical choice of reading, but I like to occasionally read a good political thriller.
I have never read anything by David Baldacci, but given how popular he is, I figured it was a safe choice.
The story itself is perfect for the audio format.
Rather, it is exactly what you would expect from this genre, a modern story that moves quickly, has clear good and bad guys, and that addresses a currently hot issue.
In this day and age, when the good and bad guys are not so clearly delineated, I can see why David Baldacci is a popular author.
In Divine Justice former government hitman, Oliver Stone, is on the run after assassinating a high profile senator and the CIA director after they betrayed him and cost the life of a friend of his.
While this is going on, Macklin Hayes, a high level spy who has a vendetta against Oliver, sends Joe Knox to hunt him down, while his friends in the Camel Club try to help him get out of this situation.
All of these people converge on Divine in the middle of a drug running ring and a corrupt maximum security prison.If you just consider the core storyline and the main characters of this novel, it was a quality read.
