https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15404.The_Ring_Sets_Out
Years ago I went to the cinema with my brother (who loves LOTR) to see the second Lord of the Rings-film.
About a year later I watched the first film.
About five or six years later I watched the final film.
One of the few things I remember from the films is how much I loved Pippin, but Merry might be stealing his thunder.
I know boring bits are coming up, everyone has warned me about them, but I just really want to know what happens to my hobbits and Strider.
The Ring Sets Out is the first of the six books of the The Lord of the Rings trilogy.
The three volumes consist of two books each.The Ring Sets Out begins in the light tone of  The Hobbit , but soon the ‘little’ adventure of Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin turns dark.
We hear stories of great evil, of the wretched creature named Gollum and that something dark has arisen in the land of Mordor.The four hobbits are innocently and surprisingly brave, encounter the Nazgûl, an evil ancient tree, marvelous Tom Bombadil and Goldberry, and finally Strider, who helps them avoid capture by the Nazgûl.
And finally, we meet Glorfindel.
This is the first book of the seven book slipcase set of Lord of the Rings that was released in 2012.
In this format, it makes a convenient reading copy, with each book being easier to carry around than one of my hardcover editions, as well as saving them from wear.This book covers from the start (including Tolkien's preface) through to the events at the Ford of Bruinen, roughly half of The Fellowship of the Ring.
One cautionary note for those who haven't read Lord of the Rings - the preface is a bit of a minefield.
It is a well written fantasy about Hobbits mainly Bilbo Baggins and his nephew Frodo, who had come upon the unfortunate findings of a Ring .
The Elvens are also a peaceful and gentle people who make suitable friends of Hobbits.The adventures of Frodo Baggins thus begins in the Shire and in this installment, ends near the Elven territory of Rivendell, called The Ford.
I kept looking for signs of where Bilbo journeyed approximately 80 hobbit years ago.
Of course I've watched the Lord of The Rings movies years ago, but it's immensely rewarding to read along with the Audiobook Read by Phil Dragash on youtube.
I listened to the Audible version of this book (or half book if you prefer - it's the first half of Fellowship of the Ring - the first "book" of that book).Like a lot of fantasy readers, I read Tolkien when I was really young, then read lots of other fantasy by other authors that were derivative of Tolkien, and eventually became a little embarrassed of liking Tolkien.
I started to feel that these books were a bit antiquated and full of outdated attitudes.
While that's true, to some extent, they're actually much smarter books and better written than I'd given them credit for.
Stuck between 3 and 4 stars. Some of it was great but then other parts consisted of 15 pages of "the road went down and then sloped back up and then went back down and then went right and up again" le sigh. Also very much underestimated the huge difference between the book and the film.
Yet another attempt to make it through the full set of books...I actually liked Tom Bombadil this time around, so that's an improvement on my previous false starts with this book.
1. Most people know the story pretty well even if they haven't read it or seen the films but one thing of particular note to me was the incredible number of songs and poems in the book.
He seems to be the most powerful character in the whole of Middle Earth but is a jolly old fellow that just likes to walk around and sing.
Tolkien's deep world building is great but the constant geographical details actually make it hard to read at times.
It is the one thing that makes the book hard to read.
There was a lot of singing in the book, much less attention has been put on this part in the movies.“All that is gold does not glitter,Not all those who wander are lost;The old that is strong does not wither,Deep roots are not reached by the frost.From the ashes a fire shall be woken,A light from the shadows shall spring;Renewed shall be blade that was broken,The crownless again shall be king.” “May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.”“Many that live deserve death.
I never really expected the LotR movies to be a direct adaptation of the books. But the first part of the first movie is a far cry from what was written in book 1. What happened to the decades between Bilbo’s disappearance and Frodo’s departure from the Shire? And to Tom Bombadil and the barrow whites? It looks like hardly anything made it to the first movie. Nevertheless, I think Tom Bombadil’s songs will forever haunt my memory, as it gets stuck in my head regularly,, “Tom Bom, jolly Tom, Tom Bombadillo!”
Horsey horsey don't you stop! Reading this to someone else, it gets rather boring describing scenery over and over again, which is why the first installment of my most favourite of books only gets 3 stars.
Love it, even though it took more than 100 pages to get out of the shire XD
Love diving into this story piece by piece and am doing so again based on the dates when book breaks occur. Considered reading it literally on the day when events were to occur, but... do you know they were in the wilds for 17 days between getting stabbed and reaching the ford?!
But Tolkien somehow managed to turn this thorough, complete, and beautiful world into a background in which nothing interesting happens.
Let me clarify that, though; there's a ton of interesting stuff happening in this first book, but it's so overshadowed by the utter boredom caused by pages and pages of scenes of just camping and walking.
Tolkien's fans say he's painting a picture of a world so you feel like you're on the journey, but the goal of fantasy is escapism, and I can't escape from a monotonous life through even more monotonous events.
So, I'm just going to write a few notes about my own experience of reading, and my thoughts after finishing part one of this six part epic.
This is my third time reading this book, but my first time finishing it.
I love the characters.I intended to read each part, and then take a break before reading the next, as I did with The Green Mile last year, but I don't know if I have the self control to wait...I am reading The Hobbit to my children as I read this book, and it has been a wonderful companion.
Read this book.
Gandalf goes away to learn the truth, and when he finally returns to Frodo we learn that the Ring is actually the key to world domination by the Dark Lord Sauron.
pursued by evil Black Riders (servants of the Dark Lord) and bumble their way through a number of ancient evils and natural hardships trying to make it to Rivendell.When read as a single book, this is surprisingly well plotted and driving!
Gandalf is still a little too much "Mr Exposition" but I think it is justified to underline the danger presented by Black RidersBook 2: The Ring Goes South, coming up!
In all honestly I was torn between 3 and 4 stars for a while as I can appreciate how incredibly written it is however I tried reading this book a couple of years ago and really struggled to get into it.
I don't know whether it was because I was too young or whether the first 150 pages really are very difficult to get through as I literally picked up where I left off this time, given they were still walking around just outside the Shire halfway in.That said, after picking it up again after promising myself to read them all this Summer, I was introduced to Tom Bombadil, Strider and eventually Glorfindel and found it a really captivating read, especially after Strider joined them at the Prancing Pony.
I very much enjoy that the edition I have is split into even smaller books and would greatly recommend this edition because where they are smaller it's much easier to get through; it's not as intimidating and daunting an experience as reading a massive book would be, seeing as Tolkein's works are quite heavy worded as well and also because I'm not trying to rush through it or getting held back because of the size I've found that I can really understand the characters more because I have the chance to spend more time with them and can gain a sense of sympathy and empathy for the hardships they have to tackle within their adventure.Okay!
The things I liked about this book is that it starts the series really well and introduces you to all the characters in a way that you can easily keep up.
As well as all that it uses a relatively old version of English in it which can take a bit of getting used to.I would recommend it to anyone that likes a good fantasy book, unless they cannot get through the initial slow starting which does actually last the whole book.
If you liked other classic fantasy series or even action or sci-fi books I would recommend this book.
Reading this as a high fantasy novel intended for young adults, i was a little disappointed as the book was immensely similar to its predecessor i.e. The Hobbit, which is a children's book. For the most part the story as its predecessor embarks on a journey to the east and my feelings about the journey  (up the hill, down the hill, under the hill, through the hill, into the dell, onto the ridge, into the thickets, across the ford )  can be likened with those of the characters as in all of US were longing for it to end.
I know I have started reading one of the finest works of all time - The Lord Of The Rings by J.R.R. The name says it all.
This is the first book in the entire series and it gives you a broad picture on how the ring found Frodo Baggins, how he embarks his adventure with his buddy hobbits.
The hobbits set out on a mission to reach Rivendell and this book speaks about the beautiful landscapes of the Shire, Bree, Buckland.
And also about whether they accomplish their mission with fearful and perilous black riders behind them.
J'ai lu toute la trilogie du Seigneur des anneaux, péniblement. Avec un certain intérêt, mais constamment frustrée par les longueurs. J'ai sauté plusieurs pages, des passages véritablement interminables. Les personnages, les univers, la complexité du contenu historique, c'était fascinant. Mais le rythme était trop lent, le style un peu trop naïf à mon goût et l'écriture, pauvre - comme je le mentionnais dans mon commentaire sur Bilbo le hobbit, c'est peut-être à cause d'une mauvaise traduction française.Bref, intéressant, fascinant, mais long et pénible.
I had a hard time putting this one down! J.R.R Tolkien was light years ahead of his time when he wrote this epic series. Rich with detail, this book transports you to a whole new world, one created for the reader. Tolkien had an amazing imagination and he shares that with us, his readers by taking us on an amazing adventure through a land and time that inspires readers to allow themselves to escape into the pages of this masterpiece.
I think millions of reviews have been made of this book. The biggest challenge I faced, when reading it was 'time.' Tolkiens writing is amazing and when digging into his universe you need time to give your self into it. This is definitely not a book to just read a few pages on the go.I am looking forward to continue reading Tolkien - when I have the time to absorbing.
I loved Tolkien's writing style and the mysteries of Middle Earth, especally Tom Bombadil because he is just awsome and I don't think that I will ever uncover his mysteries. I cant wait to continue reading this series so I can see where this adventure goes.
Been meaning to read these books for so long. There is so much detail condensed and yet drawn out at the same time. I know there is so much I am going to forget, these novels will be worth reading and listening to on audiobook time and time again
Do you like slow movies. ? If yes, this would be a good book for you. This is an epic novel which says about an imaginary wolrd consisting of human and other human like creatures. Little slow but worth reading.
Well it's a great tell for a book and takes u back to a place that is magical and has wired thing coming out of ever little hole like a hobbit and warlocks and wizards all kinds of stuff so it's a good read
Yay, I found a way to make my rereads count on the challenge! This has always been my favourite part of the whole series, but lately (during the last two rereads) I've found the forrest part before Tom Bombadil to be completely forced and unnecessary.
A very good opening to the LOTR trilogy :) I'm impressed.
