https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21969786-more-than-this
sure, loads of them are still silly and forgettable, but there are also complete gems of books out there for stronger, smarter teen readers looking to be exposed to something new, something challenging.and this book delivers that with a brainpunch i'm still feeling.this is how i felt after i read beauty queens, after i read piper's son,which while they are COMPLETELY different kinds of books, did things to me that i didn't think could still be done to me, not in YA anyway.
I like how I still don't know what happened. And I like how that was the point.
Look. Here's the thing. I am not generous with my five star ratings. Five star readings must have shocked me or blown my mind or done something really original or otherwise awesome to get me to throw that final star in their direction. So a four star rating is, for me, really really good. I want you to remember that and realise how good this book is when I say I just expected something more from Ness. Let's make a joke about it: I just expected more than this. Ha. And maybe it's because I'm too
I want you to remember that and realise how good this book is when I say I just expected something more from Ness.
But this book made me feel like something was missing.More Than This is a compelling read with a wonderful and diverse set of characters.
I love that every time you and the characters think you know what's going on, he throws another surprise into the philosophical pot and stirs up this crazy story a bit more.
It lends an extra layer of believability to the story when it feels like that person who only appeared for a couple of pages went on living past what we saw of them.
“A book… it’s a world all on its own too. A world made of words, where you live for a while.”You should read this.Because it is beautiful.Because it is scary.Because it is mind-blowing.Because it is nothing like you expect it to be.Because it is hard not to love Tommy.Because it is a book like no other.Find more of my books on Instagram
what an interestingly bizarre story.
this rating probably deserves to be higher, but i just dont think i was in the right mindset for something that was so… out there.
and i think i need to learn how to set a book aside when that happens and pick it up when im ready, rather than just pushing through it, because its not really fair to the book.
and theres honestly nothing wrong with this story - the ending was actually quite moving - it just caught me at a bad time and didnt really hold my interest as much as i wanted it to.
After reading:GOD DAMN IT PATRICK NESS.
I guess it's no secret that I'm obsessed with Patrick Ness's work and I worship the ground he walks on and yada yada.
Not as much as the Chaos Walking series (although I kind of doubt I'll ever love anything that much) but it was still amazing.Full review:Coming eventually!-----------Before reading:UPDATE: AAHHH NOW THERE'S AN EXCERPT.
WHAT IS THIS?WHAT IS THIS MYSTERIOUS NEW PATRICK NESS BOOK?
I AM FREAKING OUT HERE.Well, whatever it is, I'm sure it'll be amazing as balls because everything Patrick Ness touches turns to gold.
VERY SIMPLE BUT VERY COOL.AND THE DESCRIPTION.
I'm not sure what I was expecting that to be, but it was not that....in the best way possible.I loved the characters and the plot and the world......but I don't really want to say much about them. I'm of the opinion of most everyone else that you should go in knowing as little as possible about this book!
He likes to confuse the reader.
At least twenty times throughout the novel, Seth says he ‘‘remembers’’ and ‘‘understands,’’ when in fact it’s a lie.
Seth wakes up in an empty world after drowning.
The memories were interesting and helped me care about Seth.
But it’s not… really.
Everyone who chose to be part of the virtual reality did so to escape, but Seth makes us realize that even when things get rough, ugly and post-apocalyptic, we should still hope for a better future and find beauty in the darkness… companionship especially.
Interesting story (what I understood of it) and great pacing.
Um...er...huh.Well.----------------Okay, so, I totally don't know what to make of Patrick Ness at this point.
Like I said.I think the concept is pretty interesting up to a point.
And I liked the characters up to a point.
I think that for whatever reason the real life and sci-fi aspects just didn't mesh well for me, maybe because I had a hard time taking either world seriously--neither ended up feeling entirely believable to me.
I don't know, maybe that's the point.
Anyway, in the end this one is more like a 2.5 for me.
This is a genius idea for a book. It's hard to talk about because it's great going into without knowing much, but I will say I really enjoyed this. From the gay main character to the addicting premise, it was fabulous. I just found myself not really able to connect to the characters, and the ending was a bit too ambiguous for me. But I highly recommend this!

While I try to avoid spoilers in my reviews, my overall impression of this book may this time be a spoiler in itself, so proceed with caution!This is a fairly mind warping dystopian mystery left open to so much interpretation after 470 pages, it's kind of amazing.
I mean, after that many pages you would think you have some pretty good idea about what is going on.
But, instead, each page adds more to the mystery.
Also, I give this book a big thumbs up for keeping me interested and not wanting to put it down.If asked to come up with a complaint, the only thing might be a little repetition here and there, but not enough to ruin it.
Save the review browsing for after.Which might be a bit scandalous to say as a book blogger (goodbye page views!) but: 1) I don't want you to get spoiled because part of the fun of reading Ness is feeling like you are a reaction GIF brought to life, and 2) Preconceptions and Ness books just don't mix.Your brain will try to fill in the blanks and make assumptions--specifically that you can try and guess where the story is going in Part One. Patrick Ness will smile to himself, suddenly amused on the other side of the planet, not quite knowing why.
um, hi, no one talks about this and it pisses me off. Want a book that tackles topics such as suicide, mental illness, sexuality and homophobia in respectful and realistic ways??? Do you also want entertainment, to die for characters, political intrigue and all that sci-fi goodness?? Read this book. Stop what you're doing and read this book. It might have been lost in the surplus of new releases over the past few years but it still rings so true, and I will never not recommend this book to everyone. It is absolutely chilling and in the best way possible.
4.5 stars Terrific blend of I Am Legend + Twilight Zone + The Matrix. I don't love the implied cautionary tale re: technology, but I do love the story structure, characters, and writing. Thomasz has particularly great speech patterns and dialogue, and the story never feels cliche or boring--no small feat when the first 30% consists almost entirely of Seth on his own. Best read knowing as little about it as possible.
I honestly have no idea what to say about the book. To be honest, it was a bit slow and up to more than 250 pages, I was still debating with myself on whether to finish it or not but there is just something about the book which I could not explain that manages to pull me back into it. It’s probably the author’s ability to make the reader ponder on life’s meaning and ambiguities. I guess it’s called  "More Than This"  for a reason. True to its title, it is going to be more than what you think it
I honestly have no idea what to say about the book.
To be honest, it was a bit slow and up to more than 250 pages, I was still debating with myself on whether to finish it or not but there is just something about the book which I could not explain that manages to pull me back into it.
It’s probably the author’s ability to make the reader ponder on life’s meaning and ambiguities.
I guess it’s called 
for a reason.
True to its title, it is going to be more than what you think it is.
Either  Jean-Paul Sartre gave me my quota of existentialism for a lifetime (I really do love him, though)Or  My reading slump is worst than I thought. (unfortunately, I'd say ) I shall come back to More Than This someday. Everyone has been telling me to read a favorite author's novel when nothing* works. Hey, now, that's not as if I didn't think about it. But, well... Too bad I'm an obsessive reader who needs to read EVERYTHING all at once, let's say. If only I had any Melina Marchetta left. Sig
Either ① Jean-Paul Sartre gave me my quota of existentialism for a lifetime (I really do love him, though)Or ② My reading slump is worst than I thought.
*Books I started today, FYI : The Last Wish : attention span < 0 All the Light We Cannot See : words words wordsThe Way of Shadows : ugh - what's this writingUnder the Never Sky : I don't caaaaaaaaaaareThe Reapers are the Angels : maybe laterMalice : been there done thatThe Serpent King : not in the moodOrigin : how about no I kid you NOT.
“Real life is only ever just real life. Messy. What it means depends on how you look at it. The only thing you’ve got to do is find a way to live there.” _________________________________Actual rating: 4.5 StarsPatrick Ness has sold me on all of his other books by reading this one. I've read A Monster Calls and immediately after finishing More Than This, I decided to order the Chaos Walking Trilogy. I will buy anything this man writes. 1) The Plot This book starts off with our main character's,
_________________________________Actual rating: 4.5 StarsPatrick Ness has sold me on all of his other books by reading this one.
This book starts off with our main character's, Seth, death.
This book mostly resolves around Seth and I really love Seth.
I could read Patrick Ness's writing until the day I die.
His writing makes you feel like you are there in the story.
I love his writing, and I must read more!
This book was wonderful, SO close to being five full stars.
If you want a book that will mess your mind up, then this is the book for you.
More Than This shows glimpses of greatness, but never quite reaches that level of soul-satisfying, heart-stopping, mind-melting resolution for me.
(hide spoiler)]The characters are great.
I want an entire book just of that kid.
Seth's back story and his relationship with Gudmund (while taking up very few pages of the novel) burns bright, so vivid, so emotional.
I quickly became astonishingly invested in their story after only a few scenes, in what they meant to each other and how they expressed their thoughts and feelings.
Patrick Ness, you need to write a love story.
But this is not that book.
WHAT. THE. ACTUAL. F***.Patrick Ness just outdid himself.
"People see stories everywhere," Regine says. "That's what my father used to say. We take random events and we put them together in a pattern so we can comfort ourselves with a story, no matter how much it obviously isn't true. We have to lie to ourselves to live. Otherwise, we'd go crazy." This is a book about hope. More Than This is about existentialism and is stuffed with insane plot twists. Yes, true. But more importantly, this book tells us there's always hope, as long as we hold on, as lo
It's such an important message and it's so well executed and I just love terrible books with hopeful endings??
I somehow finished at 1 am - yes, I did read this 500+ page book in four hours flat - and I don't even regret it.
There are answers to the big questions in the actual plot.
I think the somewhat open ending was fitting for this story - it's hopeful, but not unconditionally happy than anything we could've gotten otherwise, let's face it.
♚ Despite being written in third person, it's easy to feel empathy for the main character, Seth.
Seth feels like a real, fully formed person; he is just that well-written.
I've read 7 of his books (this was the first I read) and four of the ones I've read (including all books in the chaos walking trilogy) ended with cliffhangers?
This time I noticed I liked the first half of the book (where the ONLY character is Seth for about 170 pages of the book) more than the second half, when others are introduced, however I still enjoyed it immensely.
This is easily still my favourite Patrick Ness book close to the Chaos Walking trilogy.Would recommend if you like something a bit philosophical and out of your comfort zone, it does get weird.
I was fighting to understand or to help the characters understand what was going on but even when I did Patrick Ness would simply prove us all wrong, would send a blow that'd throw away every stupid conclusion because it's not it, it's always more than you think always more than you read!The writing was mesmerizing, wicked and beautiful.
Unless Patrick Ness reveals what this book really is, we won't know for sure and we all will stick to our weak conclusions.No two persons ever read the same More Than This.
Patrick Ness? More like Patrick YESSSSSSSSSS.Man, did this book give my mind a hard fucking. It's the kind of book that, from the very first page, immediately makes you want to know:A.) What happened,B.) What is happening, andC.) What's going to happen.Of course, those three questions would only be three out of the seven hundred and fifty thousand nine hundred and twenty six other questions you'll have swirling around in your head, and unfortunately only half of that will probably get answered in the end.This book is definitely a play-with-your-mind, makes-you-question-your-existence-and-contemplate-reality, will-possibly-give-you-many-a-nightmares-for-a-significant-amount-of-time kind of wonderful. Loved every second of it.
THAT WAS DEEP.
The main character is (I'm putting it in a spoiler in case you don't want to know yet) (view spoiler)[ gay (hide spoiler)], one supporting character is a "plus size" British girl, and the other is a young Polish tween.
(hide spoiler)] Parts of the book were kind of heartbreaking to read.
I can see people abandoning it because not much seems to happen during that time.The answer to what was going on left me feeling unsatisfied with a lot of unanswered questions.
Everyone was left asleep and the main character even wanted to go back and keep living the fake life in the program with his family and friends.
This is the first book by Patrick Ness that I've read.
In fact, it made an awful one.The synopsis of this book makes it sound like it might be some sort of philosophically deep psychological thriller.
Well, I'm sorry, but I don't think that someone who doesn't know the difference between further and farther, between who and whom, and between any more and anymore; who has his characters shrug, smile, nod, and frown their speech; and who continually says things like "nothing still happens" is a very good writer.
Maybe the author's other books are better than this one, and maybe they're not.

I know there was a reason behind that ending and I do get it now that I've thought a lot about this book, but still I hated the way the story was left off!
(see what I did there?) But since I don't want my review to come off as a rant,( it's not, guys, this book is awesome!) I am going to stop using () and start writing a review that makes little bit of sense and convince you all to read this book!
Let me tell you, this book does not prepare you for such scenes, it just comes out of blue and leaves you thinking what the hell you just read.
3.75* The writing was fantastic, it kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time trying to figure out what the hell was going on. Honestly it was an incredible book, but not the kind I like to read, thus the slightly low rating.
I think Patrick Ness just loves writing about survival.
I know this probably sounds weird coming from somebody who’s only read two books by him (The Knife of Never Letting Go and obviously, More Than This), but while these books had completely different plot lines and characters, I couldn’t help but see the similarities.
Patrick Ness loves tackling the big topics and I think he did a phenomenal job doing exactly that in More Than This:"A boy drowns, desperate and alone in his final moments.
I truly loved this book and it has now become one of my all-time favorites.
