https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123512.Sunrunner_s_Fire
But, kudos to Melanie Rawn for creating such a memorable world and characters, because by the first couple of chapters I’d gotten my footing and could read the story without looking up who everyone was.
There are dozens of strong, independent women who are able to hold their own even in this brutal society, and in this book, she introduces a female character who isn’t so strong-willed, which was a nice change of pace, and I like that we got to see that someone can be strong and brave without being stubborn and physically or mentally powerful.My favorite part of this is the tension between Andry and his family.
Review from the PFS Book Club...What I Liked: This book is a well-crafted (plot-wise, at least) ending to the Dragon Princetrilogy, nicely tying up the Rohan versus Roelstra and his family vein that started in the first book.
Some of the background characters start to fall into the trap of being too similar to others, and some of the characters simply don't have enough importance to actually be part of the plot, but there they are.This is none the more apparent then in the first half of the book, when, for some reason, takes place mostly outside of the Rohan-family circle.
Andry, YOU SUCK.
Using the first ring night to get teenagers pregnant and killing people just because of their heritage?
I know you have your reasons but you still suck.
Pol, I have my eye on you.
You were actually sort of okay in this book but you are about to turn into an insufferable, arrogant jerk and I will want to knock your block off.
If the two of you could both knock off this stupid power struggle, things would work out much better for everyone.
But then we would lose a lot of plot and 17 years worth of entertaining arguments, so I guess it's all good.
By far the strongest of the series.
When the last year was complete I was dreading that the bulk of the action was going to be taking place in a Rialla year.
After the last book, where all the action took place at the Rialla, I am done with that event forever.
It thankfully never came to that.The dragons are pretty under utilized.
I need more dragons!I think I'm going to take a small break before beginning the next trilogy, but the series definitely picked up with this installment.
75-percent of this book concerns people painstakingly discussing what they just did, what they're going to do, and what they might do. I'm not sure why. It's not like any of these people are brilliant Machiavellian statesmen. Their motivations/actions should be easily discernible. Also, there's dragons.It's possible that this naval-gazing is a brilliant structural reflection of the main theme: protagonist Pol struggles with Hamlet's dilemma between satisfying barbaric violence and agonizing civilized reflection. The reader struggles right along with Pol. The fifteenth time that the characters earnestly discuss their inner feelings, the reader develops a headache.
Wanted to see how the series turned out. Can't say that I was captivated by the whole thing. My biggest complaint is calling this series the Dragon Prince. It would've been much more fitting to name it the Desert Prince as the "dragon" part is more than a little misleading. Learning about the diarmadhi and the differences between them and the faradhi was interesting. Didn't realize it until I closed my Nook but I found I was relieved when I finished the series.
This book is the third in the Dragon Prince Saga again it starts out to be a very politically oriented story line but turns into a great saga. The story keep your attention and takes you into a world of High Princes and Sunrunner Magick. It is a good read for any dragon and fantacy lover.
Ah, so good. I forgot that this ends on sort of a cliffhanger though. Guess I will have to reread the others as well. :)
:/ It's taken me awhile because I was pissed at the actions of some of the characters, and MILD SPOILERS for events of the first book.Some of it due to how crappy Andry became in this book.
(hide spoiler)]ROHAN, SERIOUSLY, SHUT UP ABOUT IANTHE.
Y'alls 2nd encounter might not be qualified as rape because I don't know if the drugs were out of Rohan's system yet, and therefore how much he would've been able to consent.
Ianthe was the monster because she was the one who took away his ability to consent!
Another Great Read! Overall it was an okay finish to the series although the ending of the Book felt lacking and incomplete. You can tell the author was ready to come to a close and didn't exactly tie up loose ends in a detailed manner. But having already read the next trilogy I know the author did this intentionally, so keep reading the next 3 books and you won't be disappointed. I hope Hollywood never gets their hands on this entire storyline because I love it too much to see them massacre it on the big screen.
Third in the trilogy of complex fantasy thrillers with many interwoven plot lines. Intrigue, betrayal, treachery. This was Game of Thrones before G. R. R. Martin ever started writing.
epub file
Will review at www.fantasyliterature.com.
Yes, Rohan's intent was to force himself on Ianthe because he was angry and wanted to punish her, but he knew that she wanted intercourse with him and she laughed her way through the whole thing, so what he did wasn't actually a punishment and wasn't actually against her consent.
(view spoiler)[I have no problem with many of the changes Andry makes because of the terrible visions he's seen, he wants to defend the people he loves and will use his power to do so any way he can, even if it corrupts himself.
(view spoiler)[Miyon thinks he can lead Pol around by his trousers.
Much like GRRMGeorge R R Martin, Melanie Rawn is not afraid to kill off well-loved (at least by me) characters.
No spoilers, but she's done this in each book in the series so far with both minor and major characters.
There is another trilogy set in this world after this book (the dragon star series starting with Stronghold) so now might be a good time for me to pick those up again as well.
I haven't picked up her latest books yet but I look forward to reading more Melanie Rawn.
I get the distinct impression that the 3rd book was always meant to kick start the next trilogy.
The drama in this book is that of a soap opera...Dynasty to be specific.
However, like some seasons of Dynasty, this book can get really dull in the story.
In this book, Pol's romance with Meiglan is so dull and boring that the only way it would've worked is if she'd done something amazing...instead she just acts like a pale-faced, mealy-mouthed ninny.Read the series, but don't be afraid to put it down and move on.
The characters who were teenagers in the second book are young adults now, facing a new challenge from the Roelstra line (of course), and how they act shapes the world that they will inhabit as adults.Most of the book revolves around Pol and Andry, cousins who wield enormous power in the world - Pol as Prince of Princemarch and heir to the Desert and High Princedom, and Andry as the Lord of Goddess Keep.
Whilst "Sunrunners Fire" is the last of the Dragon Prince novels it doesn't really conclude the series (except for tying up the plot line contained within the novel itself), instead reading like book 3 of 6 with the series then progressing to the Dragon Star novels/trilogy.
The 'bad guys' range from pure piggy-bad (I heard that expression somewhere and loved it!), through pure selfish self-focus, to the good intentions 'justifying' bad deeds.
The 'good guys' still generally have their flaws, and are not carbon copies of each other.
I'm going to keep this short and sweet.
Pol has a lot of growing up to do, even at the end of the book.
I believe that Sionell and Pol should have gotten together before Tallain came into the picture.
They didn't and I have to admit that Sionell and Tallain work well together.
So Audry had a few children.
He was gifting the women with his children...
Audry thinks he is all powerful and spectacular.
I'm starting to love to hate him.
Maarken and Hollis have gotten over the draunth issue and are building a life together.
I love it!
Ultimately Melanie's main strengths are in creating complex, involving characters and political machinations that are believable, compelling and equally complex.
The combination is unbeatable: with literally dozens of characters in each book thoroughly developed, the conflicts and intrigues become that much more enjoyable.
I would contrast this directly with writers such as Jacqueline Carey, with whom several characters are well developed, and the rest become simply names on a page.Throw in excellent pacing and great writing, and you can easily forgive the fact that most of the good guys are a little too perfect, and that everybody is deeply attuned to the shapes of other people's eyes and how that shows their family relations.
The story of the High Prince Rohan, who endeavors to transform the continent on which he rules into a land ruled by law, and his wife Sioned, a powerful and fiery Sunrunner, continues in this volume of Melanie Rawn series.
With the political infighting and internal family conflicts typical of this series, this novel brings the tension between Sunrunners and those of the Old Blood to a critical level in the form of a battle between Rohan's heir Pol and one of the few surviving grandsons of the old High Prince Rolestra.

a book full of magic, dragons and the wonder of communication between humans and dragons is tremendous but also a book full of cruelty towards the dragons from the evil boys from roelstra's side!! andry and pol cannot work together it seems which is a grave pity as looks like they will be needing each others strength in the near future!! hope they can put their differences, jealousies and their power struggles behind them when trouble hits them all as its seems it is bound to do!!
Yet another gripping continuation of this series. While this was the last book in the Dragon Prince series, I'm glad there is the followup series, that I'll be starting next. Melanie Rawn knows how to draw the reader in, and keep them in her world. I would definitely recommend this series to anyone who enjoys this type of Fantasy genre. Dragons, magic, sword & sorcery, and great political intrigue.
Melanie Rawn has only Disappointed me ONE time. It was NOT writing the 3d Book in the Exiles of Ambrai series. ALL of her Books and the ENTIRE SERIES is the BEST I have read; Other than Elizabeth Haydon's Rhapsody Series . Am Crossing my Fingers to find OUT if Ms. Rawn WILL write the 3d in the Exiles series.. ALL of her books take you THERE!! ALL Three Series. LOVE Her! S. Johns Finished reading for the 7th time :)
Again, a nice romp. Never any doubt that the good guys will succeed. Most of the drama in the first trilogy is psychological and has to do with the extremely fraught circumstances surrounding a certain conception and birth. It's been too long for me to sort out all the plot details, as these two trilogies are generational books spanning the time from the young adulthood of the Dragon Prince and his wife until their old age.
I just love this series, this one is not as good as the first two, mostly I feel this way because this second generation is fairly whinny as they come into the story, they get better in the next 3 which is good. I like the power struggle and the addition of the new threat and how it doesn't automatically make everyone like each other and work together.
This book is really amazing as of now. It use's very complex words and is hard to understand at times. So you might have to re-read most of it. It doesn't say who the time traveler is tho! It just say's the "time travler" came back from his time travel. So its very weird book, its as if its set in the 1900s.
I didn't like the way this one ended. I thought Pol was both arrogant and dull, Rohan was whiney, and everyone else was just boring. The only exception to that was Sionell--she, at least, had a spine. All in all, the only thing that can be said is that this book had a lot of words but said very little.
I remember now why I stopped reading the series. It's not that the story became any less epic, but... I stopped liking the main character. And his foil has become mindlessly evil, which is just ... stupid.So yes, it wraps up a bunch of things and then also sets the stage for the next trilogy, but I admit I don't like the main protagonists well enough to want to continue. Ah well.
