https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104088.The_Wandering_Fire
It is a truth universally acknowledged that while not all who wander are lost, those who mashup the Lord of the Rings with the Arthurian Legend, wander into their impending doom.As you know for me The Summer Tree went promptly beyond fantastic and straight into the epic category.
(hide spoiler)]Events that occurred in the previous instalment were like a three-night long overture to the events taking place in this book.
Why would you bring, to this already overcrowded picture, another universe of characters and references with their own dynamics and arcs?While the beginning of the book was everything I hoped for, the Arthurian mashup, reduced the pleasure significantly.
two things in particular stick out for me:Sex. i love how this novel places sexuality at the center of much of its magic, both implicitly and explicitly.
i have actually never read its like before in a fantasy novel - i was horrified while simultaneously impressed by the language, by the ability of the author to remove all traces of potential, repulsive "sexiness", by the way the author showed how the raped character retained her strength while never shying away from how truly negating the experience was, in every way imaginable.
If the novel had the speed and excitement of modern novels, I'd have been rocking hard to this.As it was, it felt so old-fashioned and pedestrian and mild and old hat that I wanted to cry and plead that I had just read this novel too late in my life, that I have already read too many great novels that explored all these themes too well, that the characters just weren't strong enough to make up for that fact, or that I am, in the end, sad that I'm just an asshole.These are just my opinions, of course.
A good sequel, although not as good as the first book in the trilogy. It suffers from a slight case of second-book syndrome, there is not the same sense of wonder as in The Summer Tree, and I did not enjoy the introduction of the legendary characters at all.However, it's Guy Gavriel Kay. It's still beautiful and highly enjoyable. It's just not on the level it could be.
What can I say about book two that won’t be too spoiler-y for book one?
I guess I can say that there is more of the same.
The world of Fionavar is locked in an unnatural winter, caused of course by a Mage-gone-wrong.
What can the forces of good do against the very winds of winter?King Arthur is the Eternal Warrior, needed for any possibly-world-ending war.
The five wayward Canadians who have found their way to Fionavar have also proven why they were selected by fate to make the transfer to that world.
There is pain and there is happiness.
I know this story isn't all good guys winning all the time, but it still organizes good and evil and love and hate and family into something manageable.These are my random thoughts about the story: (view spoiler)[Jennifer has Satan’s baby in this book.
I totally love Satan’s baby stories, I guess.
Satan’s motivations are a big mystery to me in this story.Also, I’m totally okay with the Camelot stuff, but I’m not in love with it.
(view spoiler)[Like, Paul sacrifices himself, but then he gets to rise again and be a god/man.
The story picks up several months after the first book left off, with (view spoiler)[our main characters from Earth back home after Kim brought them back in the process of rescuing Jennifer.
At the beginning, they're trying to find a way back to Fionavar, among other things (hide spoiler)].
Nearly every time there was a problem, one of the characters would suddenly discover some new latent ability or previously-forgotten knowledge that could help.
(hide spoiler)]I still enjoyed reading it despite my complaints.
My complaints are mostly story-based whereas I still really like most of the characters, so that helps.

DNF at 47%. I just can't do it. I'm bored and I don't like the humans in Fionavar scenario. I'm dreading picking it up, so I'm calling it quits. :(
5.0 stars. This is an incredible book and part two of an incredible series. Guy Gavriel Kay is one of the best writers working in any genre and his writing is both technically superb and deeply emotional. This series should definitely be on the "must read" list of any fan of epic fantasy. Highly recommended!!
I can't really put my finger on what it is that I'm loving about this series. I can name the faults at length (but I won't) and I don't feel that I *should* like this as (gasp) I dislike both The Lord of the Rings and The Chronicles of Narnia, both of which seem to be major influences,, and yet! Totally enamoured.
Φανταστικό όπως και το πρώτο! Γρήγορη πλοκή και χωρίς να κουράζει. Σ' αυτό το βιβλίο όμως μπαίνουμε πιο βαθιά στην ψυχολογία των ηρώων και καταλαβαίνουμε καλύτερα τις κινήσεις και τη συμπεριφορά τους! Περισσότερα εδώ: http://bit.ly/2j6eblE
Η Περιπλανώμενη Φλόγα συνεχίζει και συμπληρώνει επάξια την ιστορία που έχει γράψει ο Guy Gavriel Kay. Το δεύτερο αυτό βιβλίο της σειράς, αν και μικρότερο σε μέγεθος, έχει περισσότερη δράση σε σχέση με το πρώτο ειδικά από τη μέση και μετά.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι το πρώτο μισό του βιβλίου κυλάει πολύ ομαλά και ήρεμα (με εξαίρεση λίγες σκηνές) αλλά από εκεί κι έπειτα γίνεται ένας πανικός.
Ο συγγραφέας περιγράφει άψογα όλες τις μάχες και τα συναισθήματα των ηρώων και δεν σε αφήνει να ηρεμήσεις μέχρι και την τελευταία σελίδα.
By this point in reading the trilogy, you've probably decided whether you can bear with Guy Gavriel Kay's style or not -- whether you can be invested in his characters or not.
If you're invested in the characters, though, there's plenty to worry about: Kim's dilemmas, whether she has a right to do what she's doing; Paul's separation from humanity; and Kevin's initial helplessness, and then his journey to the Goddess...
Suffice it to say that Guy Gavriel Kay nods to the Arthurian tradition whilst creating something entirely his own.Not the strongest of the three books, but still beautiful.
Review to follow when third book read
Of the five visitors to Fionavar from the first book it's only Kevin and Jennifer's roles that hadn't been set out and both have big roles to play here.
There's much more on the themes of sacrifice and power as well.In many ways this is my favorite book in the series, partly because of the desperate acts of bravery.
I'm a little conflicted about the representation of female power here, mainly because it's all tied into blood, mystery, sex and sacrifice, but I think it needs to get a pass in that it is female power, and that's largely lacking in these books.Still one of my favorite series of all time.
I noted in the review of the first volume that I tried to read these some years ago and really couldn't get into them.Without giving any spoilers (something it can be difficult to accomplish and also say "why" you think or feel what you do about a book) this one stays (for me) in the "middle ground" area.
I can also see heavy influence from Tolkien here (not a bad thing, in some ways I'd like to have seen more of it).
Probably at some point, but I have a lot of books waiting and I don't think I'll rush it to the top of my "to be read" list.3 stars.
This, the second novel of the Fionavar Tapestry trilogy, was truly amazing.
The blending of Celtic mythology and Arthurian legend was artistry.
Vivid imagery and spectacular storytelling, this is Epic Fantasy at it's very best.
Best image: Diarmuid singing in battle.
So very Celtic.Best fight scene of all time: In Chapter 15, on the Plains near Adein.
It surpasses any and all fight scenes of the myriad books I've read.
It'll stay with me for a long time.Everything about this book is fantastic and Kay is an impressive author.
If you love Epic Fantasy, The Fionavar Tapestry is not to be missed.
Sad, heartbreaking and full of surprises, this book was a wonderful journey.
Στο δεύτερο μέρος αυτής της τριλογίας ο Guy Gavriel Kay μας δείχνει το μεγαλύτερο εύρος του συγγραφικού του ταλέντου καθώς η εξέλιξη της υπόθεσης του δίνει την ευκαιρία για να δείξει αρκετά περισσότερο λυρισμό, είτε μιλάμε για την περιγραφή των επικών πολεμικών κατορθωμάτων, είτε για τις συναισθηματικές καταστάσεις όπου εμπλέκονται οι ήρωες μας.
Από κει και πέρα όσον αφορά την ίδια την ιστορία περνάμε σε μία φάση της όπου υπάρχει αρκετή δράση καθώς ο πόλεμος ενάντια στις δυνάμεις του σκότους είναι ήδη σε πλήρη εξέλιξη, κάτι που αφήνει πολλές υποσχέσεις για ένα συγκλονιστικό φινάλε.
Just as much nonsense as the first book in the series with gratuitous Arthur-Lancelot-Guinevere thrown in.
There really isn't any coherent story, the protagonists lurch from scene to scene with no character development apart from they all suddenly develop mysterious!powers or are *beloved of the gods* or given *items of power*.
Why five Canadians transported into another world are so important is beyond me and certainly isn't explained in the books - it just smacks of cultural imperialism.
Here, let's bow down to five strangers who will *solve all our problems* for no particular reason.It is complete and utter nonsense, and I won't be wasting any more of my life on this series.
Il mio vocabolario non comprende parole in grado di esprimere come mi fa sentire Kay.
2.5 stars. I rounded the first book to 3, so I'll round down with this and maintain the average.Next up, The Darkest Road. If I can bear it.
For my thoughts on the Fionavar Tapestry trilogy as a whole, see my review for The Summer Tree.The Wandering Fire is a little bit of a middle-book-in-the-trilogy, but manages a decent plot nevertheless.
But his fate is to leap off a cliff in a cave, have sex with a goddess while falling, and then die--this sacrifice allowing a magical end to the magical winter that is slowly killing the country.
This destiny has been foreshadowed by the fact that he has always had really, really intense sex his whole life.I'm sorry.
It seems like a very abrupt end to a character.
Maybe the sex thing seems incongruous to me.
Please read the full review on Weighing A Pig...The Summer Tree, the first book of The Fionavar Tapestry, was gripping & amazing.
It gutted me.
As the series is regarded as one of the classics of fantasy, it is no surprise that The Wandering Fire was a feast as well.
My review of The Summer Tree applies to this book too: The Wandering Fire continues the story, and has the same strengths as Kay’s debut.
Naturally, I more than look forward to reading The Darkest Road, the concluding volume.(...)
Most of this book was spent amassing forces. There were a few big surprises in abilities and one of the five was lost. Some of our Earth lore seems to have been woven into Fionavar lore which got a little confusing. The gods are beginning to play a more active role. Still a great fantasy series.
Holy heteronormativity!
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.It’s been 1 years since I read The Summer Tree, Guy Gavriel Kay’s first novel and the first in his Fionavar Tapestry. I mentioned in the review for that book that I’m an adoring fan of Kay’s later stand-alone novels but that I found The Summer Tree derivative and heavy. I would have happily skipped its sequel, The Wandering Fire, but I had already purchased it at Audible, so I thought I’d give it a chance to win me over. Simon Vance, the narrator, is one o
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.It’s been 1½ years since I read The Summer Tree, Guy Gavriel Kay’s first novel and the first in his Fionavar Tapestry.
Simon Vance, the narrator, is one of my favorites and his bad Canadian accents were toned down this time, which made him pleasant to listen to, as usual.In this installment, the five college students are back home in Toronto after Kim whisked them out of Fionavar when she heard Jennifer being tortured after being raped by the dark lord, Rakoth Maugrim.
That isn't to say not much happens -- a lot does happen, so much that it makes my head spin a little, but it feels quite short.
and actually more of the lore about the gods in this world, like Dana working in threes and her gifts being two-edged swords.The death in this book makes me cry...
It's amazing to me how much I can love almost every word of this book and yet find a small scene was horribly jarring -- it's the same in The Summer Tree, just one scene sticks in my throat and won't go down.
now there's a build-up that makes at least some sense.Nonetheless, wow.
This is a book to make you remember why we read.
Where a ship lay waiting to bear fifty men to a place of deathThe battle scenes are not long and not many, but they are as good as any I have read:Swift were their horses, passing swift their blades, fierce was the fire in the hearts of the Children of Light.
Into the ranks of the svarts they rode, sharp and glittering, and the foot soldiers of the Dark screamed with hate and fear to see them come.This is a book and a story to make your heart beat fast.
