https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5186.Breath_Eyes_Memory
"I come from a place where breath, eyes, and memory are one, a place from which you carry your past like the hair on your head."This book is really quite sad.
These memories are carried within the women of this story and are passed through the generations where they persist and wreak havoc on the psyches of both mothers and daughters.
Otherwise, the American students would make fun of me or, even worse, beat me." Sophie will need to adapt quickly, and learn about her mother and her mother’s demons that torment her dreams each night.
How would the busy streets of NYC look to a young girl freshly arrived from the Third World?I’ve heard far too many stories of families separated by immigration.
Danticat brings these issues to the forefront.Despite depicting some of Haiti’s violent history, it was a hopeful book, one infused with Haitian thought and mentality, mostly through stories, songs and the grandmother’s wisdom, the grandmother, who like mine, has been preparing for her own funeral for years.
Like everything else, eventually even the rainbows disappeared.”I know this book will speak a lot to a lot of immigrants, especially those who question where home is.
There's so much going on artistically, it leaves you in awe even as it breaks your heart.Sophie grows up in Haiti with her aunt until age 12, when she is sent to New York City to live with her mother.
Danticat explores how the legacy of violence and hurt are inherited by each new generation, and the herculean effort of will required to break those patterns.Even though thematically this is a tough book to read, the prose is spare and the pages fly.
Rape, breast cancer, eating disorders, insomnia, nightmares, sexual, lingual and racial discrimination are other topics of this book.
The central character, Sophie Caco, is the product of her mother’s rape.
Sophie remains in Haiti to be raised by her mother’s sister, Tant Atie, until her mother sends for her, when she is twelve.
She does not want to leave Haiti and her mother emotionally views her daughter with hatred.
Would a person actually say that?” The characters’ thoughts seemed all too often illogical to me.It is interesting to look at the two sisters, the mother who leaves her child and the aunt that cares for Sophie.
It may be safer never to flirt, and similarly it may be safer to reject all sexual contact and retreat to a monastery (and there may be an awesome beautiful life there too) but maybe we can also tread the difficult path and find liberatory ways of engaging in such dangerous acts…Here I think the driver’s flirting is relatively safe, because Sophie with her daughter Brigitte, and her wedding ring, feels neither vulnerable (problematically, she has a protected status conferred a legal proven attachment to some man) nor desireable at the point when the driver praises her as if he were making her into a religion.
Well, by my grade I'm sure you can tell I wasn't too fond of the book and didn't like it all that much.
let's explain why I didn't really like it...First of all, the story itself really didn't interest me at all.
None of that was explored, and I know the book could have been so much more had it been.Once again I had a time issue on my hands.
it's just I like it when it's a smooth switch, or it's explained in a smooth way, or just...
And yes, Danticat was only 24 when she wrote it!At times I wanted Danticat to take me deeper into the complex lives of this multi-generational circle of women and the unspoken pasts that haunt them.
Yet by the final third of the novel, I appreciated her sparse, crisp style.
This is not a book heavy on style; much of it is dialog, for instance.
Breath, Eyes, Memory delves into issues of regret and anger and forgiveness and letting go the ghosts of our pasts and healing from hurt.
Breath, Eyes, Memory certainly belongs in this esteemed group of novels.
But does Danticat ever write happy stories?
Breath, Eyes, Memory is a sad book that is written in such a calm manner - Danticat style!
Grandma Ifé (Manman) and her daughters -Tante Atie, Martine (who moved to NY) and her granddaughter Sophie (the main character of this book) seem to be victims of terrible circumstances, constantly living in a nightmare.
Also, was Martine suffering from psychosis?Reading this book teaches you to empathize with others.
I doubt I'd ever read Breath, Eyes, Memory again, but I'm glad I finally read it :) MORE ON THE BOOK BLOG SOON!
Breath, Eyes, Memory is a book that feels like a comfortable companion, a story of a young girl Sophie, growing up with her Aunt, Tante Atie, in Haiti, her grandmother not far away.
The Aunt is is the edlest child in the family, an unmarried woman, taking care of her sister's child.Sophie's mother is in New York and when she is 12 years old sends a ticket for her to come.
Sophie thinks of her Aunt as her mother, she makes her a mother's day card, her Aunt encourages her to take it with to the mother she doesn't remember.Sophie's mother works as a care worker, she takes her daughter with her, until she can start school, she presses on her the importance of an education.
“She told me about a group of people in Guinea who carry the sky on their heads.
These people do not know who they are, but if you see a lot of trouble in your life, it is because you were chosen to carry part of the sky on your head.” “Tante Atie once said that love is like rain.
Then it starts pouring and if you’re not careful it will drown you.” “There is always a place where women live near trees that, blowing in the wind, sound like music.
This book is about the relationship between a mother and a daughter who had not seen each other for a long period of time.
When Manman sees her daughter for the very first time she took her as like she was a fragile glass.
As for Sophie, she didn't see her mother that way, she thought she wasn't her mother, due to her abandoning.
Now Sophie has to raise up her child in a way she doesn't have to feel the pain that Sophie and her mother had gone through.I recommend this book to anyone because it really shows a relationship of a daughter and a mother.
The sisters' twin tragedies evidence the toll of a lifetime ofdoubling, of living in an environment which keeps the woman uncomfortable in her body.The cult of female purity centers on an obsession with the woman's body, as it is elevated to the status of sacred object.
The details of Martine's suicide suggest an attempt to destroy the rapist's body, which has become indistinguishable from her own.
It is Sophie's conscious attempts to address this split, to reconcile her body and soul via therapy, narrative and love, which evince a power to move beyond the tragedy of her mother's and aunt's experience.
This story has once again proven how women will always have to endure more, sacrifice, learn more...we always have to do more than men to be considered for anything, as anything.
I am deviating but throughout the story about these four women from Haiti, I was constantly struck by the enormity of their burden as a result of society's expectations, the violations of their bodies and minds, yet they still managed to get up every day to live a 'normal' life haunted by ghosts of their past.
The story takes us through her life in the America but most importantly her relationship with her mother and herself as she fights to be free.3.5 stars
Not so in Breath, Eyes, Memory, where by the end of the book, I didn’t feel any connection to any of the characters.I also think there’s a way of writing about other cultures that draws me in as a reader and almost makes me forget that I’m reading a book at all.
I don’t need pithy answers to huge problems, but Danticat’s perspective seemed to me extremely bleak, with very little hope.Early in the book, Sophie tells us that “Whether something was funny or not depended on the way Tante Atie told it” (19).
I found this book a little difficult to read, it was chopped up in little segments & for me, it made it hard for me to follow.Sophie is a young girl who has been raised by her aunt & grandmother in Haiti & at the age of 12 her mother sends for her & she moves to NYC to live with her mom.
We move quickly over several years to Sophie becoming a young woman & we see her resist her mom in some of the "old" ways of Haiti.
This would be a great companion book to Junot Diaz's The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao or This Is How You Lose Her in terms of exploring the cultural trauma of a Caribbean nation (in this book's case, Haiti vs its next door neighbor, Diaz' Dominican Republic).
There was a lot of nice imagery and some beautiful writing in this book, and a wonderful sense of place.
Danticat avoids cliches, so I was never really sure where the book was going.
I liked that it avoided drama and sentimentality, but for me it landed a little to far on the side of cold detachment.
3.5 StarsThis book is lovely and it's utterly remarkable that the author finished it when she was 25 years old. Told in four vignettes, this is a rich singular view of the Immigrant Experience, mother-daughter relationships and sexual abuse and its effects. I flew through this but felt the four vignettes disjointed and some of the plot developments came out of nowhere (not in a good way). Still, I recommend this since it is a haunting story and Sophie's story, though particular and narrow, could be anyone's story and that's why it's wonderful.
As Sophie grows up and falls in love with an older musician, she and her mother are both haunted by sexual trauma that nothing – not motherhood, not a long-awaited return to Haiti – seems to heal.
The fragrance of crushed mint leaves and stagnant pee alternated in the breeze” and “The stars fell as though the glue that held them together had come loose”), and the novel gives a powerful picture of a maternal line marred by guilt and an obsession with sexual purity.
Gee this book was depressing. Oh my goddess's titties, i need a happier book. Also, if something is messed up, can we not pass it down to our children so they have to do the messed up thing because it's considered normal? Really it is about the power of women despite all the horrible things that happen to them, but also how these mothers did AWFUL things to their daughters in the name of purity.As if a penis makes you automatically dirty? Why do people have this attitude about sex? I blame St. Augustine.
I loved reading this book. I have appreciation for Danticat's simplicity of words to tell a story, while dealing with political and social issues. The story of Sophia from Haiti who after having stayed with her aunt for the first part of her life moves to New York to live with her mother.This book deals with the concept of 'home' and relationships between women in a family. It deals too with the obsession with keeping women "pure" sexually and the consequences of this obsession on personal value, on the future of the women and their relationships with men.Simply beautiful read
Beautifully writtenThis had me sobbing in the end...at work. Uncontrollable sobbing...! I loved it. Totally identified with the main character and her struggles. *tears*
First things first, I found this book to be brilliant.I honestly don't know that much about Haiti as a country or a culture.
I initially called this a memoir since the way that Edwidge Danticat writes it feels as if she is relaying something truly personal that may have happened to her and is using Sophie as her stand-in so to speak.Reading about the inner workings of those that live in Haiti and worked the sugar cane crops was fascinating.
I am definitely going to have to go and read some of her other works since I loved this book so much.
Main character Sophie, at the novel's start, a young girl in Haiti is abruptly shipped off to America to be with her awkward and equally numb mother.
Sophie suddenly jumps to the conclusion that she must essentially mutilate herself to simulate the loss of her virginity, seeing this as the only way to stop the tests and to be with the man she loves (again, this love is depicted in SUCH a detached way).Later, Sophie returns to Haiti for an inexplicable visit.
Sophie and her mother, the main focus of the novel and those with the most tortured pasts relive those moments with such disconnect and numbness that it left me feeling equally as detached from their struggles.
Thanks to Isabelle for making me bump this book up my TBR list.
I enjoyed most of this novel.
It's a relatively short book that is by no means an easy read.
BEM centers the story of Sophie, a young Haitian girl, who was raised by her aunt for most of her life, then summoned by her mother (whom she's never met) to join her in the US.
As much as I enjoyed Danticat's delicate writing, there were parts of the novel that felt stagnant (when Sophie returns to Haiti with her daughter) or gaps in time that left me dissatisfied.
It was a chilling story of love, sexuality, and freedom.
Can you truly find freedom after a rape attack when everthing in your culture puts your virginity above everything?
Hating yourself, hating your child, and finally taking your life seems to be taking matters to the extreme for Marteve.
Sophie trying to free herself from the pain of being tested for her virginity and trying to please her husband.
She was separated from her aunt to something that was suppose to be better without understanding why.
Tante Atie had no life when Sophie left.
Duty took over her life.
Breath, Eyes, Memory is an engaging story of Sophie Caco, who was abruptly summoned from her hometown of Haiti to the United States by her estranged mother.
Author Edwidge Danticat introduces readers to the Caco women, who embodied strength and resiliency, but who also harbored a dark past.
Set in Haiti as well as within the Haitian community in New York, this novel also addresses controversial cultural practices, and how they impact the lives of women.
From the first page to the very last word, I was completely enthralled by the novel, and am looking forward to reading other works by Danticat.
This is a great, if disturbing, book. It's funny how an outsider's view of culture changes her own understanding of right and wrong. Let me clarify: because I was reading about Haitians in Haiti and then in New York (a group of people I'm not familiar with), I was less critical of certain characters' actions. I became, simply, an observer. Silly me. Because of this oversight, it didn't even occur to me that Sophie's mother was sexually abusing her. Maybe this is the point--in a certain context, something horrible can appear so normal, even routine.
Onvan : Breath, Eyes, Memory - Nevisande : Edwidge Danticat - ISBN : 037570504X - ISBN13 : 9780375705045 - Dar 234 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1994
i was super let down by this book. i was expecting a fabulous, lyrical story and i was just happy i made it to the last page. perhaps i should be less trusting of ms. oprah's little book club...?
The story is of a Haitian girl who, as an 18 year old, comes to join her mother in America.
Insights into Haitian customs and the way of life permeate the entire book.The mother in the book, we find out early on, was raped by a stranger and gave birth to Sophie.
The mother has nightmares about the rape for the rest of her life.
In closing, the author did a decent job with female character development and conveyed a lot of Haitian customs that were interesting and gave the book its authenticity.
