https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34091380-the-late-show
Michael Connelly has begun an exciting new series with a new LAPD detective, Renee Ballard, who with her by the book partner, Jenkins, works the Hollywood nightshift, otherwise referred to as The Late Show.
This means they pick up cases, which are then passed on to the dayshift cops, Renee has been shunted onto the Late Show because she had the temerity to file a sexual harassment complaint against the head of the homicide team, Lieutenant Robert Olivas.
The Dancers Club case is headed by Olivas who will not tolerate Renee's presence on his team.
And he wants her out.Ballard, however is tenacious and fiery – thus she finds a way to work the Ramona Ramone investigation on company time.
And both of these cases lead down roads, that spell trouble with a capital T, but that’s not much of a surprise, is it?With “The Late Show” Michael Connelly does something special here, he creates a new character as almost as likeable as Harry Bosch.
So, thank you to NetGalley, Little Brown and Company and Michael Connelly for this ARC.
In case it wasn’t obvious, I loved it and I recommend it to mystery/suspense fans and all Michael Connelly fans out there.
Here's a little bit of an oxymoron for you: Michael Connelly is one of my favorite authors, yet I haven't read one of his books in a while.
I love the way he writes, but somewhere along the way I lost track of which Harry Bosch books I've read so far, so I've missed a bunch of them.
I'll have to just suck it up and read from somewhere in the middle, because he sure knows how to tell a story.The good news is, with  The Late Show , he's introduced a brand new character to get hooked on, LAPD Detec
And with this new book, once again, Connelly proves he's a master at weaving suspense, emotion, character development, and some good-old-fashioned police work.Ballard works the night shift in Hollywood, known as the late show.
This frustrates Ballard, who once had a promising path as a detective, only to be shuffled to the late show after filing a sexual harassment complaint against a supervisor.She loves the job, but it frustrates her, because she has so much more potential than taking initial statements and then leaving them to someone else to solve.
reminded me why Connelly is one of the greatest crime writers around, and it makes me want to kick myself that I've let so much time slip by since I've last read one of his Bosch books.
Where crimes scenes are initially developed, then turned over to their respective departments in the morning when the full investigation begins.Renee Ballard was an up and coming homicide detective rising up through the ranks.
Now she’s the queen of the late show.
Running down calls all night, only to reluctantly hand them over without the chance to get her hands dirty.But Renee is not the type of person to just walk away.
Why would they stonewall these particular cases?The story is a slow build as the character of Renee Ballard develops.
But she’s not about to back down...not from anyone!
Working alongside a jaded partner, Ballard is forced to contain her excitement for the cases that come her way.
However, Connelly has been able to craft the Renée Ballard character to reflect the same grit of the LAPD, but with strong differentiations from the(in)famous detective.
However, Connelly offers enough in this character that the reader can, at times, forget that and focus on wonderful police work.
Admittedly, I cannot remember reading about Ballard before in your writing, but I wonder if you have any hopes of bringing Haller or Bosch in to liaise at some point, should this book take off and lead to a larger series.Like/hate the review?
Renee Ballard lost her sexual harassment case against her supervisor and because of this she has to work the 11:00 pm-7:00 am shift called the late show shift.
Immediately after this, they are called on another case to the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center to check out an assault and all they get out of it, is the victim saying something about an upside down house when she was in a coma.
I really love this author a lot, so I will be reading the next book.
One good thing out of this book is I really love Renee Ballard.
The start of a new series by a go to author of mine, usually I would be a little alarmed, Would this new series be as good as his others?
Is he still going to write the Bosch series, my favorite of his.?Well by the third page I was hooked, seems good authors, dependable authors can do that, just pull in a reader, quickly.
Definitely a good start to a new series, as always tightly plotted, well written and well researched.
Also to answer my second question, heard he will come out with a new Bosch n the Fall, so win, win.
The difference is in how you handle the darkness."And L.A. police officer, Renee Ballard, is living and breathing in that darkness.
When Ballard's sexual harassment complaint against a fellow officer goes south, she's been assigned to cases that exist under the midnight rocks that hardly see the rays of sunshine the next day.
Renee Ballard is a product of early abandonment since childhood.
Ballard doesn't take the easy way out.
You'll come to find that out.It's my sincere hope that Michael Connelly is broadening his sketch of Renee Ballard even as we speak.
Ten years ago I loved novels like The Lincoln Lawyer, The Scarecrow and Echo Park for their fast-paced plots with Connelly throwing his characters into tense situations against murderers and sadists.
Alas, that’s not the Michael Connelly of today who only seems capable of robotically churning out dull police procedurals like The Late Show.
The scene where Ballard is one-on-one with the sadist in his home was momentarily exciting - the Connelly of old appearing all too briefly.
Utterly pedestrian, uninspired and boring, The Late Show is Michael Connelly on autopilot - definitely not worth picking up unless you go in for the driest of dry police procedurals.
I am a huge fan of Michael Connelly and was curious to see how this, the start of a new series, would be.
And I love how Connelly provides lots of back story on Ballard.
At one point, her partner shares a Japanese proverb about the nail that sticks up gets pounded down.
Renee is that nail and there are quite a few in the bureaucracy that want her pounded down.
Connelly not only tells a good story, he’s got a great punchy style.
It was the Holy Grail of detective work.” This story grabs you and doesn't let you go.
That’s not to say I necessarily know where it’s going, that’s a different story.
I love his books.Here he introduces a new character, a female LAPD cop called Renée Ballard.
And the motivation for drawing a new character is easily understood too: his classic crime stopper, Harry Bosch, is now now in his mid to late 60’s (if I’ve got my arithmetic right) and this is proving to be a limiting factor.
I really liked her.Connelly has managed to make a new, fresh character seem like an old friend.
4.5 StarsOk....just finished Book #1....Bring on Book #2 and more Detective Renee Ballard!THE LATE SHOW brings to the reader another police procedural by Michael Connelly that you can sink your teeth into, but this time with a quick-witted and fiesty female on the job working the dreaded night shift.As a 15 year veteran of the LAPD.
Ballard knows how to play the game and won't be toyed with....not even when there are consequences....not even when her job's on the line.
Her lifestyle....and living conditions are quite unusual....to say the least, but she is dedicated to the very endCan't wait to find out what happens next....especially to one particular sleazeball.Fast Read.
With this book, Michael Connelly adds yet another character to the Harry Bosch Universe, LAPD detective Renee Ballard.
Like Bosch, she's not reluctant to bend the law a bit in the service of a higher cause, and like Bosch, once she gets her teeth into a case, she refuses to let go.Because of an incident earlier in her career, Ballard has been assigned to the "Late Show." She's a detective on the midnight shift and her job is to begin an investigation at the scene of a crime and then turn it over to other detectives in the morning.
E-galley provided through the generosity of Netgalley, Little Brown & Co., and Author, Michael Connelly.
Michael Connelly is a brave man.
Putting aside, for the moment, his long running Harry Bosch Series, Connelly took a chance and hit the ball out of the park with his new Detective Renée Ballard Series.
Though Ballard is a cop just like Bosch, it’s like giving birth to a baby as he fills in the colors of this new canvas with a fresh eye.
If you like Connelly and you love Bosch, don't be afraid.
Give Renée Ballard a chance.
It’s nice to see author Michael Connelly come up with a female lead for his new series with Renee Ballard.Renee Ballard works for the LAPD on the night shift or “Late Show”.
Her partner didn’t back her up after witnessing their LT trying to stick his tongue down Renee’s throat.
Career always comes before a female’s reputation of course!The good news is she proves to everyone her intelligence and perseverance.
The book started a little slow for me as it didn’t have much dialogue in the beginning.
After a significant event, however, it really picks up.I enjoyed the book and plan to continue the series.
Like many others, I am a huge fan of Michael Connelly’s books.
With this book, Connelly introduces a new main character, Renée Ballard.
I hoped I wasn't going to get a female Bosch, and though there are some similarities, I don't think I did.Ballard has ten years of experience as an LAPD detective, so she’s tough and smart.
She’s prickly and angry for legitimate reasons, she has regrets, she misses her father, she’s lonely, and she does love her dog.Plot-wise, there’s never a problem with Connelly’s books and that goes for this book.
Detective Renee Ballard and her partner Jenkins worked the night shift of LAPD in Hollywood, known by one and all as The Late Show – Renee had been transferred after she’d filed a sexual harassment complaint against her boss.
So working on her own time during the day and doing the late show at night, Renee began to gather evidence.
The Late Show by Michael Connelly is the first in a brand new series, with Detective Renee Ballard at the helm.
I am very much looking forward to reading more about her in future books."The Late Show' (currently unable to insert a link because GR is having another of its little technical hiccups) is a thoroughly enjoyable read with lots and lots of interesting police procedure and a really good story.
I liked that Ballard held her head high during the bad times and always watched her own back.
The very clever twist at the end meant it was virtually impossible to guess who the bad cop was.
I always enjoy a book with a good twist:)Recommended for anyone who enjoys a good detective novel.
Now, she and her new partner, John Jenkins, are charged with investigating crimes that happen in the wee hours, but they must turn all their findings over to an appropriate "desk" rather than follow up on their own.
Then, using off hours and spare time, she delves into the nightclub murders with equal gusto - and lands smack dab in the middle of a close-to-home "hit" and a complex case that not only threatens her own future, but that of the entire department.Now, of course, I'm looking forward to Ballard's next assignment.
This is the start of a new series featuring LAPD detective, Renee Ballard who works the Hollywood night-shift with her partner Jenkins.
On one very busy night-shift Renee deals with three cases, a credit card burglary, a brutal beating that leaves a prostitute named Ramona Ramone fighting for her life and a shooting where three men and a waitress are killed.
Needless to say there are lots of thrills and spills along the way as Renee pursues the truth risking her job and possibly her life.I love Michael Connelly books and yet again he has created a strong character that will no doubt be a successful series of books.
Connelly introduces a new series with a new lead character set again in the LAPD. Like Harry Bosch, Renee Ballard is a rebel, bending rules here and there to solve her investigations and then to save herself. Connelly writes strong female characters; it is good to see one as a series lead.I've read every Michael Connelly book. No surprise, then, I highly recommend The Late Show.
But soon, Connelly deftly revealed a bit more about Ballard with each new chapter and she grew into her unique self, her tragic childhood and professional background making her into a sympathetic character the reader can care about, one who is well in control of her emotions until she isn't and zings the reader right in the heart.
But aside from that, I enjoyed every bit of this book with its wonderful new main character I'd enjoy reading more about.
If you've never read anything by this author, go ahead and start here as it's the first in a new series.
The Late Show is the second Michael Connelly book I've read, years ago I read The Lincoln Lawyer but I hardly remember it, but if it was as good as The Late Show then I need to read more books by Michael Connelly. This book had me hooked from the first chapter. If you're a fan of police procedurals led by strong well defined female characters than you will love Renee Ballard. I can't wait for the next book in the series.
Enjoyed this very much. So glad it's the first of a series.
THE LATE SHOW introduces us to a new character in the Connelly canon: Renee Ballard, a young female detective in the LAPD striving to prove herself.
Ballard works the night shift, where she picks up evening cases.
This means still working the night shift while--mostly secretly--tracking down leads on her cases during the day.
At times, you almost forget you're not reading about Bosch and his shenanigans.But, in saying that, I feel as if I don't give Renee Ballard true justice.
I'm excited to see Connelly with a new character and look forward to more of Renee Ballard in the future.
Sassy, smart, fit, independent and ballsy, Renee Ballard is a very interesting Detective to read about.
I have not read Michael Connelly, so am very late to the party.
I don't know how fast these prolific authors write, but it won't be quick enough for me.Renee is honest and pulls no punches, the character development will be interesting to keep an eye on as she has a murky family life and keeps to herself.
Corruption and greed she does not take to lightly, she is a woman to watch.
One series stars Harry Bosch, ace investigator for the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD).....and later the San Fernando Police Department.
Now, Connelly has started a new series - starring Detective Renee Ballard - a driven thirtysomething cop who likes to paddleboard and surf; sleep in a tent on the beach; and hang out with her dog Lola, a boxer mix.
This is an excellent mystery with a slam-bang climax.....and Renee Ballard makes a great 'third musketeer' to join Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller in Connelly's outstanding stable of lead characters.
Working the night shift (referred to as The Late Show) in a kind of punishment come harassment type way having annoyed a colleague by daring to bring a complaint, Renee is tough as they come and takes no prisoners – I loved her bull at a wall attitude and her determination to get things done despite being constantly sidelined.Michael Connelly has created a very different atmosphere with The Late Show – there’s a dark and disturbing ambience to it, with a lot of the action taking place in the pre dawn hours, this is a different type of policing altogether – coming into a case but never seeing it through to fruition.
She’s working a case where the victim ends up in the hospital when she’s asked to follow through on an incoming victim from another major crime scene lead by a detective who’s responsible for her landing on the late show.
Ballard can’t help following her natural instincts to pursue both cases beyond the scope of her involvement.
She’s smart with great investigative instincts and an unconventional lifestyle.
The two cases were intriguing and wish I’d been smart enough to predict that twist in the end.
I can’t wait for Ballard to meet Bosch.
Extremely tense, highly suspenseful and masterfully paced!The Late Show is a skillfully crafted, well-executed police procedural that introduces us to the feisty Detective Renée Ballard as she heads out on a shift that will have her hunting a burglar, a sadist, and a ruthless killer.The writing is tight and seamless.
The characterization is spot on with a gang of multi-layered, gritty characters including the gutsy, tenacious Ballard.
And the plot is a thrill ride of twists, turns, surprises, corruption, violence, forensics, police politics and murder that will have you hooked from the very first page.Connelly is a best-selling author, and with this new release it's easy to see why.
