https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/442348.Before_the_Fact
This crime classic is the basis of the Hitchcock masterpiece "Suspicion" and in this case the movie was definitely better than the book.Lina McLaidlaw a plain spinster approaching 30 recklessly marries the charming Johnny Asygarth even though she suspects he is just marrying her for her money.
Johnny is dashing, charming and popular but is he also a murderer?
The book poses the question are some people born to be murderers and are some people born murderees?The author delves into the psychology of both Lina and Johnny which I found very fascinating.
"Some women give birth to murderers, some go to bedwith them, and some marry them." First line of a whopperdark comedy that Christopher Morley tabbed in 1932 as"a masterpiece of cruelty and wit." Rich, late 20s-something-virgin Lina succumbs to Johnnieon the spot and elsewhere.
It'll make you gasp w literary pleasure if there'san honest bone - any bone, it doesn't matter - in yer body."According to Johnnie," Lina reflected, "all men had some bias toward abnormality.
Sipping her nightcap, 230 sublime pages later, theauthor says of Lina, "A tear trickled slowly down her cheekonto the pillow.
In both cases there is no doubt whatever of the murderer’s identity (in both cases his identity is revealed on the very first page) - both are psychological studies of murderers (and in the case of Before the Fact of potential murder victims).Before the Fact is told from the point of view of Lina Aysgarth (née McLaidlaw).
She is convinced that he could not live without her.Johnnie’s gambling continues to be a problem, and then a fortunate accident happens (fortunate indeed for Johnnie) - the general dies and Lina is now a wealthy woman.As their marriage progresses Johnnie’s irresponsibility becomes if anything even worse.
This book in one sentence: the story of a sociopath and his wife, who happens to be the stupidest woman in the world.I read this book because I'd seen Alfred Hitchcock's screen version (the movie's called "Suspicion"). I didn't like the end of the movie, so I thought maybe the book would be better. It wasn't. I actually prefer the movie.
Bettie's Books
I reached page 101 before giving up completely.
I wasn’t enjoying it at all.
Here are my reasons…Indecencies hinted at or alluded to in nearly every section.
I suppose they were handled semi-delicately but there was disguising what they were talking about.
Foul language.
It just kept getting stronger, and I’d had enough.Not one character with any sort of moral backbone.
Everyone is having affairs most likely multiple ones.
I reached the point where even the ‘heroine’ was counseled to go have one.
I skipped to the end and found out that there really wasn’t any mystery to the whole story.
The end.
We learn that, if Lina had allowed, Johnnie would have experimented unspecified sexual ‘abnormalities.’ Lina, during a time when she is estranged from her husband, frankly considers the possibility of not just taking a lover but of living openly with him.The ‘twist’ of the book is that the ‘murderee’ as she comes to think of herself, is aware ‘ Before the Fact’ that her husband intends to murder her.
This reader ended the book feeling more sorry for the other people that Johnnie will murder after he has run through every last cent of his dead wife’s money than she did for Lina.There was, at this time in England, an amazing amount of affection for the aristocratic cad.
A study in moral monstrosity.
At first it seems pretty clear who is the monster and who is the monstor's victim; Lina's passivity and self-doubt are maddening, but her essential goodness seems clear.
But as the story continues, that easy binary--of monster and victim--becomes increasingly troubled.
Does she begin good and is her goodness twisted into monstrosity by life with a toxic, sociopathic narcissist?
Or is she herself monstrous to the core?
And her monstrosity seems awfully similar to ideal femininity and wifely forbearance; the suggestion that these ideals are themselves monstrous and toxic would get no argument from me.
Is Lina's popular, carefree and handsome new husband really a crook?
Well, yes he is.
But is he a murderer?
And if he is, will he kill again?
Will he kill Lina?
This is a masterful study of a true sociopath, a man who simply has no sense of remorse or guilt or anything other than his own needs.
And it's all told from the point of view of his increasingly suspicious, increasingly scared but devoted wife.
This was the basis of Hitchock's 'Suspicion' but the novel is so much more powerful.
The tension builds steadily and the climax is all the more effective for being so understated.
From BBC Radio 4 - Saturday Drama:Emilia Fox, Ben Caplan and Patricia Hodge star in a dramatisation of the novel that Alfred Hitchcock based his film, 'Suspicion' on.
So much in fact, it starts to feel like the protagonist won't be stuck as the moron we believe her to be, but that the author is presenting her with opportunities to grow, to change in some way in response to events.I won't say whether or not that happens, but I will say watching this process as it ever so slowly unfolds is frustrating in a way I will never, ever, ever forget.So there it is: compelling, evocative, and unforgettable, which until now has been my criteria for a five star review.
read this because it was the basis for Hitchcock's SUSPICION and I always wondered if the book was any better. Answer: not really, though the ending is pretty delightfully twisted. It's a real slow burn waiting for it to get there though, without a lot to look at on the way.
"Love is not only blind. It's also deaf, dumb and pretty stupid too!"That's pretty much the gist of this novel. The main character's stupidity was so annoying that I found myself wanting to scream. Although, the psychological aspect was fine. It wasn't really my cup of tea, but it was a fine experience.
A lot has been said about this book, and the movie Hitchcock made out of it, by many people. I can only add that I bought and read the Dutch translation 40 years ago and it is still one of my favorites. I thought the movie was interesting but I prefer the ending of the book.
This was an enjoyable listen.I liked the 1932 writing style.The Hitchcock movie Suspicionwas based off this book.Narrator Bruce Montaguewas very entertaining.A few mild foul words.
Lina McLaidlaw was always acknowledged by her family and friends as being extremely clever but unfortunately not very pretty but her blue eyes and her pale cheeks did give her some sort of allure in the beauty stakes.Johnnie Aysgarth was a man about town who would flirt with any young lady and expect her to immediately fall for him.
Her father was not impressed with her choice of man friend and tried to dissuade her but, as is often the case in such situations, Lina became even more determined to cement their relationship.And eventually they married only for, after an idyllic beginning, Lina beginning to suspect that her husband was lying to her.
From the reader’s privileged standpoint, it is easy to judge Lina as dim in the extreme given her slow realisations and passive reactions when she can no longer ignore the truth.
Iles manages to pin down the essence of a character with a devastating short sentence or a cutting remark, which give the impression that despite his critical portraits, he would revel in the company of the bitchy and uncompassionate country philistines.‘Before the Fact’ is an entertaining read with a certain psychological acuity (if you can overlook some of the outrageous generalisations about women), and is far wittier and more engaging than Hitchcock’s film ‘Suspicion’ which was based on Iles’s novel.
Written in 1932, it has aged well and was used as the inspiration of the film Suspicion by Alfred Hitchcock.
But the film and the book have very little in common except for the characters and a few of the scenarios, so if you have seen the film and liked it, you need to read the story in its original form which is vastly different.A rather plain spinster from a moneyed family is swept off her feet by a real charmer named Johnny.
But then she begins to have suspicions which lead to.............read it and find out how it ends.
BOTTOM LINE: Sweet woman with money is glommed onto by a ruthless playboy, who proceeds to try, repeatedly, to murder her for her money.
The novel is not at all as genteel and sweet as the Hitchcock film version and was extremely dark and far more complex.
A very creepy psychological study from 1932 of a man who might be a murderer, and the victim, who loves him.
Hitch rewrote the ending, which in the novel is somewhat different - and still a stunner, even after seventy years.
I found it fascinating, but then I'm a great fan of psychological mysteries from the 1920s-1940s.
Did the author really believe a woman could be so stupid?
Read this book for a book club--or rather got the book for that reason, began it because I had nothing else to read when I took Dan to the hospital in Oct. It is called a mystery, but I'm still not sure what the mystery was--maybe how this woman could be so....stupid, I just can't even think of a better word to describe her.
The book was rated as #11 of the best mysteries written (so the cover told me, very old book though) so I guess I am completely missing the aspects that esteem this book as one of the best.
one of the best books i have read.
this is the book where Hitchcock got his movie "Suspicion" from.
as with all books that have been made into movies i could not help but compare the two and Hitchcock did a wonderful job...
it's easy to read in the book what Hitchcock put into the movie.
Before the Fact is one of those books where the main character(s) gets on your nerves so bad but you could not put it down.
reading the book you can just imagine Cary Grant as Johnny and Joan Fontaine as Lina.
Lina, Lina, Lina! So many character flaws you can't count them all, and yet I still had a lot of sympathy for her. Who among us wouldn't overlook a few minor moral issues to be with Johnnie Aysgarth? (Especially as played by Cary Grant, of course, in the movie version, Suspicion.) A very good read, with several major differences from Alfred Hitchcock's (and Hollywood's) take on it. Makes me want to watch the movie again to compare them.
While I understand why some may find fault with Iles's portrayal of Lina, to think her stupid is to miss the point. Her descent into further depths of foolishness or irrationality is the major theme of the novel. Iles is a wonderful stylist, and I would count the book among the best written mysteries I have read. His prose gives the plot momentum and plausibility. It is touched by a peculiarly strong note of melancholy.
I'm a massive Hitchcock fan, hence why I picked up this novel, eager to see how it differed from Suspicion and I absolutely loved the book - more so than the film. I certainly didn't expect that would be the case.I wouldn't recommend reading this if you husband is a rabid gambler and liar, who knows where that could lead ;)
SuspicionThe book Hitchcock based his movie on. The real story that continues years past the movie timeframe and delivers a knockout ending. This is the movie Hitch should have made. Read this and enjoy a true thriller. It comes to life in your imagination.
Really loved this. Didn't know whether to be infuriated by her inability to go and tell him to take a hike or understanding. Definitely psychologically convincing. http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01s02y8
Darkly compelling.
Something of a forgotten masterpiece. A disturbing look at co-dependency and murder--or maybe not...
This novel by Anthony Berkeley (pen name Francis Iles, among others), by whom I've previously read The Poisoned Chocolates Case and Malice Aforethought, was filmed by Alfred Hitchcock under the title Suspicion, staring Joan Fontaine (who won an Oscar for the role) and Cary Grant.
The whole point of the novel is that a somewhat paranoid woman is convinced her husband has decided to murder her.
All we have throughout the novel is the woman's suspicions of the husband's actions.
There is no way to determine, because the novel ends prior to any denouement.
Without sufficient information, how can we determine which is the case?
Written in three sections, each section focuses on an elemental stage of the story from Lina's perspective: falling in love, marriage, and disillusionment; heartbreak, separation, and reconciliation; further disillusionment, rationalization, acceptance, and demise.
The film is produced in way that gives the viewer a feeling that Johnnie is the main character of emphases.
BEFORE THE FACT is written with Lina as the character of focus: her insecurities, her weaknesses, her desperation and desires.
Johnnie simply plays to and drives those elements.Highly recommended to the Hitchcock aficionado, and to those with an interest in the genre.
