https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286601.ABC_for_Book_Collectors
I learned I do not really want to be a book collector. I like reading books to much. Rare books often can't be read since that could damage them. I would rather read a reprint. But it was still really interesting reading about old, rare, expensive books and the people who collect them.
So, it's basically a dictionary for rare books and the antiquarian book trade. But don't expect scholarly non-biased descriptions. They are scholarly. But the author has a slight air of snobbery which is thoroughly entertaining. He knows his stuff and isn't afraid to talk snootily of the book trade and its less savory aspects. Seriously, read a dictionary shouldn't be this enjoyable. Also, these "biased" descriptions offer lots of subtle insight into the book trade for newbies.
I thought it (in 8th ed.) a bit expensive for its size (or format, ibid.), but it paid for itself when I saved $65 on a recent purchase of a translator-signed rarity.
Carter showed a good bit of wit as well, especially when referring to the "chronological obsession" (the need to obtain the earliest if not the best copy), which invariably lead to "issue-mongers" and "point-maniacs" (bibliographers and collectors who use printers' errors to argue degrees of rarity).
The anatomy of a book itself is illustrated in spots on the margins, headers and inside cover.
This one is from the advanced reading list for my class at Rare Book School in a few weeks. Yes, that's right, Rare Book School. As Lia said, "Is that real?" I love being a librarian.
I've no doubt that this is an indispensable reference book, but it is far less witty than the collector's accounts of it I've heard led me to believe. The most whimsical element is how it labels the material elements of the book itself (endpapers, verso, recto, etc.) in order to provide real evidence of definitions.
Had to read this for a summer class on the history of the book. Written dictionary style it was a bit of a slog to get through, but it also had some dry British humor mixed in. The entry for "misprints" was actually hilarious. Useful if you plan on collecting old books.
This was a required textbook for one of my library school classes. I still use it today. It explains parts of a book and is so helpful in understanding the book printing process of the past and present.
The standard work in the field for a reason. But what surprised me most was how funny it was. To help keep the terms fresh in my mind, I took the definitions I didn't know and turned them into an Anki deck, which I will continue to use.
Extraordinary helpful mass of info for any lover of books, collector or not.
What a gem of a book. If you have ever wanted to know what a particular part of the book are such as:deckle Edges, pointille, catchword, skiver, point maniacs, cathedral binding - this is were you find out. There is a specialized vocabulary for almost everything, and books are no different in that regard. I bought this - and in Book format which is getting more rare for me - so I can enjoy playing with my books.
Rating a reference manual is tricky, especially a reference manual for a trade/interest that you do not participate in. For me, this gets 5 stars because it does exactly what I need it to, as an author and a player of RPGs. It gives me terminology and reference to present a reasonable facsimile of a Bibliophile in a narrative.
Great reference work on the language of books and book collecting.
Key book for anyone interested in book collecting. A great glossary with a sense of humor.
nonfiction,history,bibliography
a must for book collectors and would-be collectors
Super handy, if slightly outdated by all the information available on the interwebz.
A classic for anyone interested in collecting.
Since I love collecting them so much, I guess I should learn what the hell I'm doing... :)
ABC for Book Collectors by John Carter (2004)
"Ham-fisted layman" beware! An essential primer put together in dictionary-style which is often surprisingly amusing to read.
Very useful for book collectors or catalogers. Everything you ever wanted to know about books, as far as structure, printing, publishing, etc....
One of a handful of invaluable primers for book collectors.
Read by ACRL Member of the Week Simona Tabacaru. Learn more about Simona on the ACRL Insider blog.
It is a dictionary but the author has a terrific, quirky sense of humor.
This book is excellent to refer to, but it's too much like a dictionary for me to read cover-to-cover.
This book is the best book about books out there. Defines every term I need as an archivist for my not-specialized work with books.
