https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382450.Fevre_Dream
He confronts Joshua, who reveals that he and his friends are vampire hunters, using the Fevre Dream as their base of operations to investigate a trail of unusual deaths and disappearances along the river.
Years later, in 1870, after receiving a surprising letter from Joshua, a retired Abner travels to New Orleans to help Joshua finally depose the evil bloodmaster who has ruined both of their dreams.
Aboard the decaying Fevre Dream, the two vampires eventually square off, and with Abner's aid, Joshua finally overpowers Julian and becomes the bloodmaster once again.The novel closes many decades later by suggesting that all vampires, though still effectively immortal, were eventually freed from their blood addiction by Joshua's potion and Abner's brave efforts on their behalf.
Fevre Dream uses a blend of historical fiction and mythology to create an exciting vampire story tha
A tub full of blood  George R.R Martin  Abner Marsh is a steamboat captain and he, quite naturally, longs for a majestic steamer that will outpace all others.
He is a good vampire rather than the demonic blood sucking maniacs that infest this world.
I think for him to be a more effective and dramatic opponent of Joshua’s, he needed to have a dark motive or a hidden evil that drove him.
At least that way, he would have a reason to get out of bed at night (see what I did there!) Joshua and Abner were well rounded characters whose actions actually had a reason.
Enter Fevre Dream, taking this our darkest mirror to our humanity and turning him into something tragic and noble and throwing him into a Mark Twain novel.What?
Mark Twain?
Oh yeah, steamboats, 1857, we've got 15 mile an hour races and chases and deeply disturbing looks at what makes men monsters and what makes monsters into men.
Hate being a cow or a slave?
So this human aspect is truly excellent in the tale, but don't let me downplay the real gem here: steamboats.
Total immersion in the world.
Totally cool.
At first, this book sounded like an interesting read from an author I honestly enjoy--I picked it up because there aren't that many English-language books to choose from, and I actually rather like vampire stories that refrain from romanticising the hell out of the vampire to the point that they're just Average People Who Happen to Have Inconvenient-At-Times Powers...but this was less about characters, and more an underdeveloped Moby Dick scenario with steamboats.
Όχι βιβλίο, ούτε καν πόστ στο Twitter δεν είχα διαβάσει από τον George R.R. Martin.
Το όνειρο του Μισισιπή ήταν συναρπαστικό και ίσως το καλύτερο βιβλίο που διάβασα μέσα στο 2017.Ο καπετάνιος Άμπνερ Μαρς που έχασε τον στολίσκο του από την παγωνιά, δέχεται μια απροσδόκητη πρόταση από τον περίεργο και πάμπλουτο αριστοκράτη Τζόσουα Γιόρκ.
Μαζί κατασκευάζουν το Φίβερ Ντριμ, το μεγαλύτερο ποταμόπλοιο και ξεκινούν ένα ταξίδι γεμάτο περιπέτεια στα νερά του Μισισιπή.Όμορφη ιστορία που μπερδεύει με εξαιρετικό τρόπο το ρεαλιστικό και το φανταστικό στοιχείο.Σίγουρα αξίζει την προσοχή σας.
Yet another interesting spin on the Vampire mythos, Fevre Dream is a delightfully atmospheric historical horror-drama.
It skirts dangerously close to the boundary between Horror and Urban Fantasy, but it still manages to stir up some legitimate scares.
It was always night in his dreams, and he roamed the streets of New Orleans beneath a full, pale moon.That said, it isn’t a scare-a-minute story this.
The frustration Martin generates with his story is integral to the plot, but it does make for some uneasy reading.
“Good and evil are silly lies, nonsense put forth to plague honest sensible men.” Technology keeps improving but some parts of life and glory will be lost in the process.Fevre Dream is a beautiful, multi-layered story that stands as a historical drama bordering fantasy and horror.
A wonderful mixture of genres that refuses to be strictly defined.I fell in love with the hero of the book, Captain Abner Marsh, a man who lived for his life on the river.
They were brought to a sort of life by the men who spent their lives building, dreaming, running, and racing these boats.
The book was quite fast-paced, and there are a few parts in the plot which I think could've been longer - but it all worked out quite nicely.Many would claim Fevre Dream was a feeble attempt made by George R.R. Martin to reinterpret the vampire novel just as the Children of the Forest was his reinterpretation of what would be Elves, or just as the Others was a reinterpretation of what would be frost/ice Sidhe from A Song of Ice and Fire.
Though, just like the Children of the Forest and the Others, I personally think the master of modern fantasy - George R.R. Martin - did his reinterpretation went quite well.I find the book highly underrated.
Vampires in this book are simply a different species from humans, it is not possible to convert from one race to the other; garlic, crucifix, holy water etc.
Sunlight is still deadly to them, though.Besides being a first race horror thriller Fevre Dream also partly a slave narrative, where the slaves are treated cruelly by both humans and vampires.
The climax is really quite spectacular and unforgettable.If you are in the mood for some fast-paced horror and have not been put off vampire fiction by Twilight this book is highly recommended._________________Quotes:“Cynthia embraced him by the alley, and gave him a lingering wet kiss.
Podés encontrar esta y otras reseñas en mi blog. Catorce años de comenzar a destruir nuestros sueños matando a nuestros personajes favoritos de la saga de Canción de Hielo y Fuego, George R.R Martin publicó esta novela de terror que es bastante diferente a los libros que lo harían famoso tantos años después. Sueño del Fevre es una excelente novela de vampiros ambientada en Saint Louis durante el auge de la esclavitud en los Estados Unidos. Es un libro protagonizado por dos personajes muy intere
En «Sueño del Fevre» Martin también hace gala de su gran habilidad para crear personajes interesantes: la relación que se establece entre Marsh y York es excelente desde las primeras páginas de la novela y, lo más importante, son una dupla que no encaja para nada en los tópicos de las novelas de vampiros.
A lo largo de todo el libro Martin utiliza metáforas que aluden al "sueño febril" de Abner Marsh de convertirse en el dueño del barco más veloz del río Fevre, pero al mismo tiempo a la "fiebre de sangre" que se apodera de los vampiros cada vez que están sedientos.
Although Sour Billy Tipton was just one of the characters, but he was the one that I was obsessed with.
But I love you for that, for being such a monstrous abominable creature, for waking in me a great deal of HATRED which I didn't know I’m capable of.
I haven’t experienced such a hatred toward a character in years thanks to GRRM (even if I did I don’t remember!), and now all that I can imagine is that one painful death was not enough, and in my mind I go on killing Billy with a thousand ways of torturing to death!!!OK OK!
4,5*
I have read very few vampire books and this one sets a very high bar.
Set by the Mississippi in the 1850s this is story telling at its best.
I found it clever the way Martin uses his context to highlight the parallels between the slave owners and the vampires with their 'cattle'.I loved Abner Marsh, to my mind the hero of this tale, with his honesty, stubborn loyalty, pride and courage.
It's also nice to be able to confirm for myself that George R Martin has more to him than The Game of Thrones and he is in fact adept at a shorter and stand alone story.
Beautifully written tale of the most unlikely union. The atmosphere on the river/steamboat was breathtakingly real. There isn't really much to say about this novel that other reviewers haven't already said. I'll simply add that I stayed up and read nearly the entire novel in a single night--that's how hard it was to put down!Highly recommended!
(view spoiler)[If he hadn't died at the end of the book, I'd have definitely liked to read more of his (mis)adventures.
(hide spoiler)]Martin certainly knows how to pace a story and his prose style is delightful; I'll definitely be reading more of his work in future.
I mean, it says on the cover that this is a groundbreaking vampire novel but his vampires, apart from (view spoiler)[not being able to turn humans into vampires (hide spoiler)] were identical to Anne Rice's.
Re-read finished on 1.24.13. This books cements its spot as one of my all time favorite novels. Vampires on a steamship in the 1850's on the mighty Mississippi River. Not only is it a great premise, but Mr. Martin follows through and delivers one hell of a story to back it up. Highly recommended!
Second, there are vampires.
I realize Fevre Dream is solely unique from the series but all I wanted was a taste of Martin's voice.
The human characters on the steamboat, particularly Marsh, were idealistic heros and I loved every one of them for it.
The descriptions of New Orleans, of the Fevre Dream, before and after certain events, and Marsh's feverish hunt towards the end were engrossing.
I was fine with Marsh's decisions though since his first love was his steamboat, which was very telling in my opinion.
Marsh's reaction after this scene endeared him further to me.
All that wrapped up in an atmospheric tale of the American South before and after the Civil War when the river was wild and so were the people travelling up and down it.What really got on my nerves however, was Joshua York, the man who had paid for one of the grandest steam boats on the river, who turned out to be (view spoiler)[a vampire (hide spoiler)] and his awful preaching about (view spoiler)[not killing anyone, not even the most vile of creatures in the story (hide spoiler)]!
It was very well done.The story starts with Captain Marsh being hired by a man named Joseph York.
Marsh has recently lost everything on the Mississippi, and since his trade is transporting goods on a steamboat, that means he is a man without a boat.
York approaches him with a wish to hire him and he dangles the ultimate bait - the finest steamboat on the Mississippi.
I think it's fair to say that this is also a story of friends and enemies, and that was the strongest element of this particular book.Plus, there's that whole Mississippi Steamboat thing, which was really quite a lot of fun.
4,5Un libro redondo y con una historia interesante, bien ambientada y con elementos interesantes. El discurso subyacente me ha parecido fascinante y muy bien metido y en general, excepto que al principio le ha costado un poco arrancar y mantener mi interés, ha sido una muy buena lectura.
With the setting and the vampires, it was inevitable that it led to comparisons with Anne Rice's work...
This may not be my favorite GRRM story, but it is head, shoulders, torso, bellybutton, butt, legs and feet above anything I've ever read of Anne Rice's work.
So I'm OK with seeing the river and his steamboats through his eyes.Likewise, Rice's & GRRM's vampires bear comparison.
Both wrote about vampires questioning their nature, which is interesting to me, but again, where Rice goes off into repetitive existential drudgery, GRRM manages to still tell his story.
Captain Abner Marsh has been beset with misfortune after misfortune and is now struggling to keep his steamboat company together, that is until he meets the mysterious Joshua York.
He has certain stipulations of his own, some of which are bizarre but Captain Marsh can't resist the chance to once again have some standing on the river and turn his bad run of luck around.York has his own reasons for wanting to travel down the river and it's one that will put both him and Abner in considerable danger as Joshua's true nature is revealed.Simply put, I loved this book.

Featuring one of the most interesting heroes in all of the books I've had the pleasure to read in Abner Marsh, a fantastic setting, and a steamboat that makes you want to go back in time and experience a great race yourself. This was a wonderful read and I would recommend highly.
When Joshua told his story and motive (of helping his people and be friendly with humans), Abner saw it as a worthy cause and decides to help Joshua in any way he could.
Abner and Joshua were symbols of good while Billy and Damion were pure evils.
His will to recapture his boat from Damion is what makes this story so good.
Abner was selfish about his boat, Joshua was selfish about the good of his race, Damion was selfish about maintaining his domain and Billy was selfish for the wish of becoming a vampire.
Ένα βιβλίο που δεν είχα προγραμματίσει να το διαβάσω.
Το πέτυχα σε πάγκο, σε πανηγύρι, σε πολλή καλή τιμή και είπα να το αγοράσω, καθόσον : 1ον δεν είχα κάποιο άλλο βιβλίο στο νου μου , που έλεγα ότι οπωσδήποτε θέλω να το αγοράσω, 2ον τον τελευταίο καιρό είχα ψιλομποχτίσει με τα αστυνομικά και μάλλον ήθελα μια αλλαγή.
Με έκανε να ψάξω την βιβλιογραφία του συγγραφέα, να δω ποια έχουν μεταφραστεί στα ελληνικά, να θέλω να διαβάσω και άλλο βιβλίο του.
It's a horror story (view spoiler)[& has vampires which are natural creatures (hide spoiler)] but it isn't really supernatural.
Set in the mid 1800's on the Mississippi river, it has a ton of ambiance.
The setting was very well done without being too wordy.
(view spoiler)[I've shot a number of things with a shotgun & I didn't really believe how he had Billy standing up to the blast.
Still, it ended well & I'm glad I spent the time re-reading it.
Some of the scenes were still quite clear, especially the ending.
El capitán Abner Marsh es un hombre de rio que se encuentra en problemas financieros por una mala racha que ha afectado a sus barcos, cuando un hombre misterioso Joshua York le hace la propuesta de darle todo el dinero que quiera para construir el mejor barco del rio, enorme, rápido y con todos los lujos posibles.
Entre el conflicto entre dos formas de pensar de dos líderes llamados por la sangre y la obsesión de un viejo capitán con su barco y una carrera, pasa esta historia que contiene más de varias páginas de más.------------{York:}Yo he matado incontables veces, he hecho muchas cosas terribles, pero no soy malvado.

