https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161150.Riders_on_the_Storm
Hi, I'm John Densmore, and I was drummer for the Doors!
I know, I know.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You may be seated.
Anyway, you should read my book.
It is full of amazing insight, such as:1.
Jim Morrison = douche.
3. We were so mistreated by that douche Jim Morrison.4.
But he was kind of a mystic shaman prophet douche.
The record company totally bastardized our music because they were so obsessed with making money.
They didn't realize what a brilliant poet mystic Jim was.
8. Van Morrison: also awesome.
Not related to Jim.9.
Nothing important has happened to music since Bob Marley.10.
On one hand it was Morrison’s lyrics that brought The Doors together and created some of the most memorable songs in Rock ‘n’ Roll history, on the other hand it was Morrison’s unpredictability and self destructive behavior that threatened to bring the whole thing down.It has been suggested that Densmore wrote the book in response to Ray Manzarek’s Light My Fire where Manzarek said Jim Morrison wanted to get rid of Densmore.
Densmore seems like the kind of person who takes himself and his story way too seriously, even going so far as to manufacture all sorts of similarities between Jim Morrison and his brother Jim, when from what I could tell from Densmore's writing the only thing they really had in common was a first name.
From Densmore's perspective, Morrison comes off as a highly talented, highly immature, obnoxious prick who squandered his gifts and left a trail of broken relationships behind him.As far as the lizard king/shaman shtick goes...spare me.
Μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ αυτό το βιβλίο γιατί εκτός απο τα πολύ ενδιαφέροντα στοιχεία που δίνει και τις αναφορές στην πολιτική κατάσταση της εποχής,η γραφή του John Densmore έχει μια δύναμη,σε κάνει να νομίζεις οτι είσαι εκεί μαζί τους στο δωμάτιο που γράφτηκε το Light my fire.
I never liked Densmore - until I read this book. Now I see his side of the story! It can't have been easy living with Jim, much as we all love him. Anyway I believe this book would be most enjoyed by Doors addicts who have read other biographies and are ready for the next level. Lots of cool insights and little known facts. Highly recommended.
In this book, he recounts those days."Riders on the Storm" is a combination of his first person recollection of the events and a letter to Jim Morrison, the charismatic artistic leader of the Doors, who died in Paris in 1971 from drug/alcohol abuse.
In this letter, the author pours out his feelings about those days, questioning Morrison's motivation and expressing the things he never did while the lead singer was alive.John Densmore, Ray Manzarek (RIP) and Robby Krieger, although competent musicians and talented songwriters, have always stood in the shadow of Jim Morrison.
Going into this book, I thought Jim Morrison was a poet, a lover, and a Revolutionary.
Though this is only John Densmore's side of the story (the drummer of The Doors), the book focuses on Jim's extrincities, madness, possesiveness, jealousy, and narcissistic rage.
Despite my thoughts of Jim as a free-loving, genius artist-poet of the '60s and that reputation being squashed down to a guy with some daddy issues, John Densmore's story of The Doors is entertaining and a page-turner.
Reading about their developement as artists in a transitional time from the 50s to the 60s was inspirational.

When I was 15 I bought this book at a church garage sale as my first, of too many, rebellious act during my teenage years.
I discovered The Doors music which opened the doors to many other rock and roll bands, influential musicians and authors that were a result of the psychedelic era, i.e., Ken Kesey, Hunter S.
Thompson, as well as the Beat generation writers.
To say that the influence was strictly due to the wild life of Morrison is not a fair call, but reading his story did change my life, which was in desperate need of some excitement.
The book “Riders on the Storm” was a thrilling look at what it’s like to be in a rock and roll band in the 60’s!
This book is about John Denmore’s look back through his life with the famous Jim Morrison and The Doors.
The point of this book was to show the unheard perspective of the famous rock and roll band The Doors from the point of view of their drummer John Densmore.
Anyone interested in the life of a rock and roll band would love this book!
1st Read: October 9, 1992 - October 14, 1992 (**** Rating) Up to this point in my Doors reading material, this is the second book I've read about them.
I found John's book to be brutally honest and a compelling read.
2nd Read: February 21, 2017 - February 26, 2017 (*** Rating) I still enjoyed John's book about as much as I did from my previous reading years earlier.
I liked that he excluded the things we've read about in other books and interviews from his book, such as, performing "The End" at The Whiskey and the consequences of it.
i have to say that luckily the infamous Doors lyrics cant be credited to John Densmore, because he is a terrible writer.
obviously, its an interesting story and a time period that evokes curiosity, but he doesn't do it justice.
especially because its his story and he lived it.
i give him an E for effort, but i really had a hard time finishing this book, without throwing it down cringing.
its kind of silly and you just feel sorry for him, that all he has left is his story and he cant tell it well...
Riders on the Storm, My Life with Jim Morrison and the Doors by John DensmoreI recall hearing one of the songs waiting in traffic in NY on our way back from NJ and they were playing the longer version and you could really get into hearing the lyrics and what the song was really about.Took me by surprise what it was about-so strong and open in the 60's.
Some really beautiful lyrics and some raunchy ones, never understood why all the drugs, guess he didn't like the world he was living in.
I'd been meaning to read John Densmore's account of his life with The Doors for the longest time.
Having just recently returned from Paris and having visited Jim Morrison's grave at Pere-Lachaise, I decided to finally read it.
I found it to be an incredibly engrossing story.
Densmore does have his grievances, but his credibility shines through; and frankly, I think he's earned the right to tell the story any way he pleases.
And all in all, he does a pretty great job.It's amazing to read the experiences from his perspective, having been there first-hand.
With so many speculative biographies on Morrison out there, this one deservedly holds a special place.

I've read a lot of books about The Doors, and am amazed at their popularity after all these years.
John seems to have the most realistic attitude towards Jim Morrison.
He was a very intelligent, sensitive guy, but had so many demons, and couldn't conquer them.
Of course, the guys were young and afraid to confront him, and there weren't so many groups for addicted people in those days.Ray Manzarek idolized Jim, and in his story, is always the Apollo to Jim's Dionysus.
Too bad Jim paid such a heavy price.
So did all his bandmates, as they all felt such sorrow and guilt over Jim's death.
A mostly fun history of the Doors by the bands' drummer. Despite all the 1960s trappings, Densmore often comes across like a nerd who unexpectedly finds himself seated with the cool kids. He also seems to have missed a lot despite being in the eye of the storm, with numerous observations like "I wish we'd learned a little bit more about each other."
Enjoyed this one. John's childhood and intro to the 'skins', and then his details of how the band formed, worked and found their fame. A good view of Jim too.Bodies scattered across the highway.
Excellent. John Densmore is as good a writer as he is a drummer. I totally dug this book and its honesty.
This, I think, sums of Densmore's book, and the reason he wrote it, being: "to defuse the myth of invincibility a little.
His writing is candid, his take on The Doors and Morrison are unequivocal, which is such a contrast to their image and the whole spell that they projected as a band.
I am not sure it was the best choice for the FIRST book to read on The Doors, but I have Breaking on Through queued next, and hopefully, if I can find a copy, No One Here Gets Out Alive.
I had friends in Coronado who claimed to know Jim Morrison and the word was that he was a NAVY brat.
Coronado has a heavy sprinkling of retired admirals and I always took the stories with a grain of salt.
The familiar drug rituals were in full play and it was probably the best part of the tale.
One note, even if you don't read the book, was the drummers relating a sad footnote in his research.
That his candle burnt out at 27 was probably no accident.
He was just another brilliant performer who met his end in a sad way.
He was there from the beginning as the band's drummer, after all.(view spoiler)[ No matter which way you slice it, Jim Morrison's story is intriguing.Lead singer of an amazingly influential american band and sex symbol, Morrison's life should have been a happy one.
Morrison's persona was the perfect fit: moody, intelligent, poetic, morbid, and passionate.The band would have been lost without his deep voice, charismatic stage presence, and writing contributions.
(hide spoiler)] I suggest you read this book if you are a Doors fan or are just interested in Jim Morrison.
Riders on the Storm  isn't exclusively about Morrison; it tells the stories of all the band members.
As a fan of the Doors music, the book, while not particularly enlightening in that regard, was nonetheless interesting. Clearly, this was John Densmore’s attempt to come to grips with Jim Morrison and his impact on his life. Not a paean to Morrison, more of a reckoning. As you might imagine, Manzarek and Krieger play central roles in the narrative yet for some reason, Densmore is unable to really bring them to life. This book is about Densmore in the context of Morrison.
I have a Doors podcast called Defending The Doors where I try to convince my friend that The Doors are an amazing band by making him listen to all 6 albums. We go track by track and talk about the music, the lyrics, and more! Check it out!https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/d...
A first hand account from the drummer of the 60's super group The Doors. The book gives a close up of all things Doors. One point that I do get from the book is the unfortunate character of Jim Morrison. He was even forcing the band into trouble with his unpredictable, sociopathic behavior. The premise of the book is a bit of stretch (chatting with Jim). Not a bad read but not a great one either.
Insightful & personal Another perspective from a band member of the Doors. Interesting to read how this band member felt and saw the events that unfolded. Worthwhile read if you are a Doors fan.
John Densmore is an average writer (can't blame him), but I do believe the book is pretty much the truth in his point of view. His grieve and sadness can be felt between words. It's still a great book if you want some backstage stories of the Doors' musical experience.
Only took about 4 years to read, great book!
Nothing new that I didn't know from No One Here Gets Out Alive by Sugarman.
I started reading this book several years ago in preparation for a phone interview with Densmore. I came back to it when I was bored a few weeks ago. This book stands out because Densmore is brutally honest and soul-searching. He feels super conflicted about his role in Morrison's demise. Meanwhile, he discusses his love of music in a way that made me love music more.
