https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123624.The_Key_Lock_Man
Another of the first L'Amour books I read back in junior high (it's like a reading time capsule!). Cat and mouse plot with a lot of great descriptions of the Utah and Arizona deserts. Omniscient POV, and L'Amour makes full use of it, roving in and out of every character's head to provide a complete picture of the pursued and the pursuers. Saves the climax until the last couple of pages, so this is a page turner to the very end.
So this tells the story of Matt Key-Lock (or Keelock, I guess) who is being chased by a posse for allegedly murdering another man in the town of Freedom.
Well, Neerland manages to get himself informally elected Sheriff of Freedom, giving him authority to chase down (and of course kill) Matt and perhaps Kris.
The first part of the book describes the above characters, as well as the personalities of the members of the posse, some of whom are having some doubts about the veracity of the murder charge.
Excellent read. As always, I love the illustrations of men and women, founding this country, working hard, playing fair, brave & full of integrity. I wish I'd read all his books to my children as they grew up. Along with all of Ralph Moody's wonderful tomes. So entertaining! Yet make us better for the reading.
If I am ever on the run (from anybody), I want this guy with me. Smart, smart, smart-- and wickedly funny.
I love this guy! Clever+cowboy+adarnedgoodaim=a true western.
A classic, man on the run from a posse story. Great action and dialogue, but I would have liked a little more in the way of character development. L'Amour churned these books out, so it's not a surprise that he didn't spend any time building the back story. Still, an enjoyable read for fans of Westerns.
A great "action" western. Due to a major misunderstanding, the good guy and his girl (soon to be wife) are chased into the mountains by a posse. The posse consists of individuals some of which are good men and some are bad. The description of the canyons and other terrain is very good. And, best of all, the good guy and his girl win thru. Very entertaining.
This was enigmatic at first, but boiled down to silent good guy chased by a posse for shooting a bad guy in self defense. But a hidden gold search twists the plot. This book is a cut above pulp fiction and a good read for a plane ride.
Another great book in the western genre.
Interesting book, not real at all, but a fun read. I liked it, and would rate it good enough to read again some day. Well worth the time and effort and cost of the Kindle book.
A good read, for what it is.
Great book.
A pleasant read...fast paced with a good build up and satisfying conclusion. A typical L'Amour western! I found a little humorous how a man can walk into a saloon, see a pretty girl he never met before and tell her she was going to leave with him and they shall marry immediately, and she basically says "no problem". If that was the way romance was done in the west, power to them!
A typical good L'Amour depicting the tough SW loner with a good heart. Plenty of descriptive passages that take you there.
Most of this book takes place in the Utah desert.
This book is about a man named matt keelock.
He drags himself to his wife and the men find them again but Matt kills the bad ones.
He usually takes care of only him self but in the book he gets married and wants to take care of his wife.
He is a good man and he doesn't want to kill the men who are chasing him.
I liked this book because it was full of adventure.
I liked this book because most of it happened in Utah.
Listened to most of this with Terry and Jerry.
Η ιστορία είναι αρκετά απλή αλλά ενδιαφέρουσα: Έξι άντρες της πόλης Φρίντομ κυνηγάνε τον Ματ Κήλοκ, με σκοπό να τον κρεμάσουν από το ψηλότερο δέντρο της πόλης, επειδή ο Κήλοκ φαίνεται ότι σκότωσε πισώπλατα τον Τζόνι, έναν πιστολά και κάτοικο της πόλης.
Ο Ματ Κήλοκ όμως δεν είναι καθόλου εύκολο θήραμα, ξέρει καλά εκείνα τα μέρη και για λίγο παίζει μαζί τους.
Στο μεταξύ, ένας άλλος άντρας, ο Νίρλαντ, είναι και αυτός στα ίχνη του Κήλοκ, με σκοπό να τον βγάλει από την μέση και να του κλέψει την γυναίκα.
These novels were full of action and not character development because readers wanted action and because people had to wait until the next magazine came out, there needed to be plenty of action for people to want to read the next section.I read the magazine version in one of his short story collections (I can't remember which one) and I vastly prefer the magazine serial version to the full length novel version.
Too many subplots means that the main point of the story is lost in too many details.
Not too much is made of it, but the reason she ended up in America is because she shot the man who killed her father.
("You killed my father.
Prepare to die.")The final sequence, a lengthy desert shoot out/chase/ambush, is classic: Matt and Kris have been separated, Matt has been shot, the bad guys are closing in on both of them, AND a posse of good guys who are convinced that Matt is a murderer are also closing in.
I also have to note that if you like hurt-comfort, this is the book for you, also mostly because of the final sequence.
Near the end of high school and throughout most of my undergraduate years I was a big fan of Louis L'Amour.
I still consider myself a big fan, but having read all his books there was nothing left for me to read: Or so I thought.
I came across The Key-Lock Man in the library the other day and picked it up.
If the men who pursued knew nothing of him, he at least knew their kind, and was stronger because of this.It is this type of over-the-top, melodramatic, tough-guy writing that endeared me to L'Amour.
I consider westerns to be the man's version of the romance novel.
I enjoy reading a L'Amour western every couple of months since they are short, light reading and most often entertaining.
L'Amour books often have a method in that they have a handsome, rough, gunslinging man, generally a few bad guys, a pretty woman to protect and often gold hidden somewhere.
This book fit that puzzle perfectly and added a few too many fluffy values than normal.
L'Amour's greatest gift, in my opinion is how elegantly he describes the west, its people, its majesty and the details of the land.
But if you are starting to feel that I should have read a different L'Amour novel, you are correct.
I really enjoy reading Westerns.
I've read quite a few L'Amour novels and normally enjoy most of them.
I've rated many of them at 5 stars.
This one was a little bit too predictable for a 5 star rating.
I suppose if you've never read Louis L'Amour before then you might have a much better opinion of this novel.
This Western is just too formulaic to deserve 5 stars.
If you've never read Louis L'Amour before, do yourself a huge favor and read "Jubal Sackett" (or any of the Sackett novels).
While "The Key-Lock Man" is a good adventure, the Sackett novels are quite a bit better in my opinion.
Pleasantly surprised by this early L'Amour effort, although I must admit that I selected it simply because of its' short length--since I'm trying to catch up on my yearly reading goal. The story has strong character development, interesting and descriptive settings and an exciting conclusion. I'm always impressed with the little tidbits of history that L'Amour sprinkles throughout his stories and this is no exception. Highly recommend L'Amours auto-biography "Education of a Wandering Man"-where we learn how he knows so much about history.
Matt Keylock lives in the Arizona/Utah/Mexico area He wants to settle and raise cows and horses but a little trouble comes his way from trigger pulling tough guys who will shoot you if they don't like what you look like. Trying to start his dream, he meets Kristina. Oscar Neerland thinks Kristina is his and when she decides to marry Keylock, the trouble combines. Love Louis L'Amour adventures. His description of country and good ole morals keeps me reading more.
Meh. It was a decent read. Louis L'Amour does a whole lot more telling than showing, i.e., he tells us about a man's character instead of it coming out in the story. He spins a good yarn but in only 135 pages it's hard for the myriad of characters to really develop. They are archetypal placeholders for the most part. A quick, fun read if you like Westerns but not terribly stimulating or engrossing.
This is a good little read so far. I really and truly like one theme in this book and that is that sometimes those seeking "justice" don't always know the truth behind "what went down". Those who may be accused may not truly have done wrong. Things may not be as they seem, ... and in the end? The guy gets the girl -- just the way any "feelie-good" book should be!
Western - Matt Keelock rescues Kristina from Neerland, an abusive fiance who vows revenge, and marries her himself. He kills Johnny, an argumentative local rancher, in a fair fight but no one believes Johnny could have been beaten to the draw. Now as Keelock and Kristina trail a herd of wild horses they are being tracked by a posse and by the vengeful Neerland.
Good story, if just a touch far-fetched for me. The "romance" seemed to detract from the story, and the hero was almost too "invincible". I got through it, and enjoyed it overall, but it's certainly not my favorite L'Amour novel. And with the condition of the brittle, delicate pages in my copy, I'll probably never read this one again.
Another great Louis L'Amour story. Of course we love the hero--we always do--but I liked that the girl had a larger role than usual. I also liked the extra sub-story with Neill as its hero. It kind of felt like L'Amour was setting up Neill to be the protagonist in a later book.
As good as any piece by Louis L'Amour.I have to admit it. I'm a Louis L'Amour fan and so my opinion is not free of prejudice. I love westerns and you can't find any more faithful to the western spirit than the ones he wrote.
