https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479260.Camilla
A reviewer at the Saturday Review compared Camilla to The Catcher in the Rye. Holden Caulfield and Camilla Dickinson, the protagonists in question, are a bit like Romeo and Juliet: he gets some terrific lines and flails around memorably, but she's the one who grows and matures and doesn't have an ego so huge it could eat New York City without having to open its mouth all the way.Anyway.I don't understand why Camilla isn't better known.
"No. But you go on and have something if you want to.""Me, you think I could eat?" Frank turned on me and his voice was suddenly savage.
Things I liked:1) A book about a rich girl in 1950s New York.
I think even in the 1950s people didn't really talk like that.2) As I mentioned in my second "like," it was as if L'Engle wrote down three adjectives for each character, and then that's all they were allowed to be, for the whole book.
Allow me to tell you about it in detail!"4) Camilla's coming-of-age drama wasn't especially meaningful for me.
Actually, it made me reflect on other coming-of-age stories I've read, and how none of them really had satisfactory endings, either.
I took a little sidetrek in my goal of reading all of the Austin family books.
In "Meet the Austins" it was the woman who told Maggie that she was silly to believe her parents had gone to another world, and then the ill-humored aunt.
For someone who worked to find the shades in human character, L'Engle seems to believe in real cruelty, too.
I find that interesting.It's a good book, and it as a good experience to compare what I understand now to what I understood when I first read it at eleven years old.
I recently went back and reread this, which was an odd experience because I'm now much more familiar with A Live Coal in the Sea, which tells Camilla's story when she's an adult.One thing I love about L'Engle's worlds is that people actually grow up in them, and also that they're all interconnected -- Frank Rowan, who appears as a secondary but important character in this book as a teenager, shows up as a minor character in A House Like a Lotus when he's middle-aged.
This is a difficult book to recommend because the writing is excellent, but the characters - Camilla excepted - are horrible people incapable of any meaningful self-reflection.
Frank, the brother of Camilla's best friend Luisa, manages to be worse than the terrible parents in both families.
All of the characters' flaws hide major weaknesses - exposed with deftness by how L'Engle understands their hatred of themselves and others - but these weaknesses are so imposing as to almost swamp the book.
While this creates some sympathy for Camilla's mom, Rose, it also highlights what makes Luisa and Frank so frustrating as they've inherited their parents worst qualities.
Summary: In Camilla by Madeleine L'Engle, fifteen year old Camilla discovers her mother is having an affair.
As the novel progresses, Camilla slowly leaves childhood behind and enters the often times cruel world of adults full of heart break and harsh realities.Review: Madeleine L'Engle's Camilla explores the hardships of growing up.
The discovery that parents and adults are not always perfect compels Camilla to accept the reality of the world.
As Camilla's character develops, she learns that she is beautiful, like her mother, but no longer a naive child.
And when I read the back cover copy and learned that it was about a 15-year-old girl figuring out her place in the world while walking the streets of New York City with her first boyfriend and discussing life, death, religion, and their deepest secrets and dreams, I knew that I had to read it immediately.
Until now, Camilla has lived the sheltered life of a wealthy only child, but her parents’ crumbling marriage forces her to grow up fast and question so much more about the world around her than she ever has before.
I loved how this book explored so many important questions about life, all through the ever-curious mind of a teenaged girl.
This is classic L'Engle - thoughtful, philosophical, family/friend-centered.
Camilla is 15 years old, living with her parents in a nice apartment by Central Park not long after WWII.
But suddenly, issues that have been simmering for years boil over, and Camilla must figure out how to live her new reshuffled life.Supporting her and introducing her to new people and new ideas is Frank, Luisa's older brother.
She and Luisa and she and Frank have conversations about God. Frank introduces her to a war veteran who helps her figure out her feelings for Frank and to a family who lost a son who give her a different perspective of death.
From the heights of A Wrinkle in Time to the depths of Camilla.
Camilla is the most naive and self-absorbed fifteen year old I've yet encountered (in or out of literature).
She's told by umpteen people that she's beautiful and smart and delicious and everyone loves her and she never once says anything positive to her poor friend, Louisa--- but only thinks how much Louisa victimizes her.
And Frank!!
Frank says to Camilla, "You made me do it" (shake her).
I kept thinking something would turn around (this is, after all, the author of A Wrinkle in Time) but it never did.
Just couldn't find anyone to like in this one.* Not Camilla's cheating mother or emotionally distant father or Camilla herself, even, especially after she ditches her best friend Luisa to spend time with a boy (her best friend's brother Frank, no less!) who was also unlikeable.
He asks her like one thing about herself and then spends the rest of the time being moody and self-absorbed.
I kinda get that the idea is that everyone is flawed and at some point in our coming-of-age we learn that.
It was something I thought I would find no similarities in, with myself.
But I thought I'd give it a try, seeing as it was entitled "Camilla" and all.
Reading Camilla was like pursuing some parts of my past and the functions of my amygdala in every-day situations.
This can be said of quite a few books.
But I quite literally felt like I was reading about myself in some way.
Some of her thought processes and analyzations on life--due to her maturing life situations--I've felt strangely connected to, because I've felt the same way.
Why did I just waste those precious minutes?' is what I thought after I read this book.
Because she's wearing a blue coat and red scarf?' Aside from the quirky color choices, which I must credit to the illustrator and not to Camilla, I couldn't bring myself to like Camilla, and I didn't necessarily see her maturation process through the story...and isn't that what a coming-of-age novel is supposed to be all about?
Soon.(However, I couldn't bring myself to give this only one star because that would be putting it on the level of "Through A Glass Darkly" and nothing by Madeleine L'Engle deserves that.)
A terrible book the same way that being 15 is terrible, falling in love young is terrible, and becoming an adult instead of a child is terrible.
Many of L'Engle's books deal with child protagonist.
This is a different kind of novel about the terribleness of leaving childhood behind and becoming an adult.
Perhaps I make it's sound as if L'Engle hates adults.
I cannot forget the terrible sorrow of it or it's inevitable urgency.It's an older book, which I found insufficient to hold me enthralled.
But it is great art, and will not disappoint fans of L'Engle.
Liked it, although for a great while I found Camilla astoundingly "simple", as if she was 10 years old rather than fifteen.
Especially after having read "When you reach me", wherein the 12-year-old protagonist has a more complex and nuanced view of human interaction and relations than Camilla does, I look back on "Camilla" as very dated, in writing style rather than the time when it takes place.
It did get more interesting as Camilla broke away from her parents and began to act rather than just react.
Also, Camilla's mother's way of speaking made me cringe.
This is not one of the better known Madeleine L’Engle books and it’s not about the Murray or the Austen families, and there’s no sci-fi in it. It’s a stand alone novel. A lovely story told from the point of view of the fifteen year old title character. I love all of L’Engle’s books and this one was another beautifully told story. It’s been years since I read it and it might be considered dated now, but there’s nothing that ever gets dated about L’Engle’s great storytelling and sympathy for her characters.
Sweet and charming. I am disappointed that my 15-year-old self didn't read this, because she would have adored it, but I still enjoyed it very much in spite of the fact that it is a young book (in maturity, not age, but that is not necessarily a fault, for a young adult novel) but just old enough in both setting and age that it feels old-fashioned without quite being old enough to be a classic novel. (In contrast to a Wrinkle in Time, which still feels timeless to me, as do most of Madeleine L'Engle's other books.)
This book is so incredibly underrated. I remember reading this book as a child, and feeling like I WAS Camilla, walking into a record shop to listen to classical music, the teenage excitement of first love, coming home to meet my mother's lover, all of it...I felt it was happening to me and I love this book to pieces.
This is the story of Camilla Dickinson who has been sheltered but has to deal with the fallout of her parents and their marriage.
Two of the major themes is beauty (both inner and outer) as well as family relationship .
In the first half of the book we focus on Camilla and learn more about her parents, Rose and Rafferty.
I would have wished that Camilla had another view to offer but given her personality, that didn’t happen.
Despite the abrupt ending , I am interested in the next book to see how or if Camilla develops.
It’s very frightening to realize all of a sudden that you aren’t important after all.”I did have a few things I didn’t like about this book, other than the writing style.
I like the Frank in the movie better – he didn’t scare Camilla.
I liked him quite a bit, though his interaction with Camilla when they were alone made me wonder if he treated her that way because she was innocent, or because she was life and vigor and movement and he wasn’t, and if maybe somehow he could absorb from her what he couldn’t make for himself.
At its heart Camilla deals with the absolute and total lack of control that adolescents have over their own lives, and the injustice that comes from being in a place where you have strong feelings and dreams and absolutely no say in your present situation.
Really enjoyed this book! I loved the characters and the drama and the deep questions. However the ending was such a let down and the sequel doesn't even have frank and Camilla together. Other than that it was a lovely read.
She is willing to confront the realities of the lives they lead (or did at that time; the novel occasionally tells its age with post-war party phone lines in a New York where a woman's job is still less valued than a man's) and allow them to lean more toward adult than child while still capturing the frustrations of not being independent and having others be able to control the course of your life through their choices and behaviors, both directly and indirectly.
However that's the writing style, and I don't think that I could imagine these books any other way.
It adds something to the novel, how the character feels to others.
So why can't the characters judge other characters by their actions?So this is really a beautiful novel.
I do feel that at some points, it's simply taking on more than it can chew.
How that if someone doesn't grow up, it affects so many people.Camilla didn't get herself in this mess.
I definitely don't agree with David when he said that it's good that somethings aren't tarnished because they aren't ended.
At its core, Camilla is a coming-of-age story.
As Camilla's parents struggle with problems in their marriage, their daughter slowly comes to realize that she's mostly lived a sheltered life.
I think the new cover captures the story pretty well because Camilla does a lot of walking around New York City while it's snowing.Camila is a quiet kind of novel.
I think you have to be in a certain mood to read books like this.
If you've never read a L'Engle, I suggest you start with A Wrinkle in Time because that one is my favorite.
This book is a coming-of-age novel set in 1950s New York about the fifteen-year-old Camilla Dickinson who has been sheltered her whole life, and now finds herself, in the midst of parental problems, meeting fresh new people and her first romance, questioning life and growing up and being an adult.
Clad in a red beret & blue winter coat, she befriends her best friend Luisa's brother, Frank, and immediately she feels like he instinctively knows her and they're able to connect deeply about the questions they both sought answers to.
Another thing that bothered me was the lack of chemistry between Frank and Camilla...
The back reviews of the book stated that the book's title character can be compared to Holden Caulfield and this is why I became interested in it in the first place.
Is Camilla the female Holden Caulfield?
The most interesting character in the novel (for me at least) was the sometimes creepy, sometimes intuitive handicapped war vet, David.
The only concern with this novel is that it may not be as timeless as Holden's story, especially the character of Frank.
Young kids will definitely not be able to identify with the crap that Frank spewed at Camilla and-is it just me or, was their relationship a little chauvinistic?
She's supposedly deep and fascinating, but most of the time she just says things like "oh" and "yes" and "why not?".
She heartlessly ditches her best friend in favor of her best friend's sketchy older brother who, as far as I could tell, has absolutely nothing appealing about him, and she never just gives anyone a straight answer.
I just couldn't tell him/her." So...
I just couldn't tell him/her." So...
what exactly does everyone in the book find so fascinating about her when she can't seem to tell anyone anything useful or even slightly interesting?
Ehhhhh I liked what this book tried to do.
It just seemed like random introspective.
There were some nice moments, and the characters were not one dimensional (except Camilla, oddly, who actually seemed the least likable character.) But overall, it took too lightly issues which should have been major plot lines (suicide, PTSD) and focused on inconsequential events that we honestly don't care about (dolls?
Really?) And I thought I would die from the pages and pages of dialogue about existence and love and life.
One more note, Luisa (yes, like me) was particularly annoyingly written, because honestly, how many times have we heard the ugly girl with self esteem issues taking advantage of another girl?
The player who meets his true love?
And I think it's whether you go on staying alive or not that makes you what kind of a person you are.
160A beautiful book about growing up, and learning that your parents are actually individuals, flawed and human themselves.
As Camilla is forced to realize her parents humanity, she opens her eyes to new ideas of God, fate, heaven, life, and death.
Despite her fears of growing up, she learns that it's too late to go back to the innocence of "childhood."L'Engle perfectly evokes the confusion and dramatic emotion of how it feels to transition into adulthood: feeling trapped by your parents, and their mistakes, yearning for freedom and at the same time a return to the simplicity of your love for them as perfect beings.
I like to write in this genre, and I hope that my characters come to life and that my plot lines and themes feel as realistic and relevant to my readers as L'Engle's must have to her original readers.
It's like reading Catcher in the Rye as an adult.
I experienced the book very differently than I did when I read it as a teenager.
A reviewer on the back of this edition compares it to Catcher in the Rye, and even though the themes are similar, I felt Catcher more, if that makes sense.I recommend this book to L'Engle fans and to readers interested in young adult books from a different era (L'Engle writes about World War 2 the way modern American writers would talk about Irag or Afghanistan).
