https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352047.Experiment_with_Time
This confusion over date is apposite since the book is essentially a scientific and philosophical (and the author would like to think psychological) treatise on time in the context of his and others' experience of precognition in dreams.It is a serious and difficult book which has achieved cult status because it represented a sincere scientific attempt to deal with the problem at that point in history when spiritualism was already a memory amongst serious thinkers and the new physics had not yet fully established itself in the public's consciousness.
Each philosopher often has a theory of time, but there isn't any other which intrigues so much the imagination, as the obscure and, at the same time proved in mathematical diagrams, theory of this forgotten aeuronautical engineer.
The mathematics of dreams, time and eternity.
The problem is the mixing of the dreaming subjec with the human history as a whole.
If a singular person can dream the future, he will not predict only his own future, but of whole humanity.
As for his famous contribution to the theory of the simultaneous experience of time, subjective and universall, is very well known, by so many examples in history.
I've been borrowing this book from the library for many many years. I'm ecstatic it's back in print!I still don't know how I feel about Dunne's theory----basically, that our dreams are memories from the future. But it's something that makes sense (no matter how far fetched it sounds....) and it's something that I'd *like* to believe.A regular person can easily understand the text; it's not all heavy-handed scientific terms. An enjoyable read.
Agatha Christie's comment after reading this book: "...something happened to me...somehow I saw things more in proportion...I did feel from that moment onwards a great sensation of comfort and a truer knowledge of serenity than I had ever obtained before."
as an engineer j.w. dunne was inspired by jules verne to built a plane with no tail.it should be internaly in balance.his theory on time is the same.he creates a vision on mankind which ultimate purpose it is to have a freewill of it's own.so stability from inside like the plains he invented.well plains have tails and so have all things outer objects for balance.even our planet earth has a moon for that purpose i think.but maybe both can occur.j.w. dunne was irish by birth and came from a place not so far from where w.b. yeats was born.yeats' poems suffer sometimes by lack of inner balance.maybe it was a geographical thing.the book was highly regarded in it's time by writers and scholars.but like the plain he invented history took an other course.freewill is these days not anymore an issue as it once was.
This is an amazing book. It encourages you to record your dreams and look for predictions. Really challenges out everyday view of time! A classic.
This is a statement that Dunne does not even try to prove at any point of his otherwise rather meticulous analysis." In other words, Dunne conceives of time as being another dimension of space.
He has no recourse but to assume that time has dimensions like space because humanity has rather limited tools of perception for the purpose of such a study.
In such a model, real time would be the unattainable border of this infinite series.What this reviewer regarded as "mind-boggling philosophical statements" I found to be charming intuitive gems:"Evolution has worked for possibly eight hundred million years towards the development of the brain.
Interesting argument that is sloppily written. Logic clear if you can get an engineer's undisciplined prose.
Absolutely loved this book, gives a brand new perspective on dreams and reality.
The first half of the book is quite interesting and even compelling, wherein Dunne relates and discusses many of his apparently precognitive dream experiences and his notions of how such a phenomenon could even be possible.
Well, if Dunne is correct, this data should in theory include shards of future memories and therefore prove that time is of a different nature than most of us believe.
But feel free to skip anything that doesn’t make sense to you—or skip the book altogether if you happen to have a dream that you read An Experiment With Time by J.W. Dunne and found it wanting.
He considers that measuring a duration of time requires a mathematically out-of-time perspective, but it doesn't.Dunne's theory is that our waking conscience notices now and a little then, but our sleeping subconscious--or perhaps even distracted/unfocused consciousness--sees a wider perspective in experiential time--blurring events over a few days past and a few days coming.
I see no reason to claim that dreams 'are' in any sense of the future--just thinking of a likely event doesn't mean its necessarily going to happen.
I don't think this theory adequately describes deja vu or predetermination--more or less a scientific dead end--and I'm not going to read others of Dunne's books on serial time.
These two issues drove him to investigate his dreams scientifically and to come up with a rational theory.
His study of dreams and precognition, the first part of the book, set the gold standard for others to follow and stands up well even today.
The tale of his own dreams and investigations is well-written, readable and enticing.
His ideas, and the questions they raise, remain for the most part as fresh as ever, as do the criticisms raised against him.Targ's modest preface sets the book's context in the ideas current at the millennium, notably the now somewhat dated ideas of David Bohm.
Dunne’s experiments began with an interest in apparently prescient dreams, in which a peculiar incident in a dream would be reproduced in later experience, and the parts of the book narrating those incidents is more interesting than the highly technical sections (with diagrams) attempting to explain the phenomenon.
His idea that dreams blend images of both past and future experiences leads to the conclusion that we ought to be able to see “disconnected flashes” of the future as well as remember images of the past.
B. Priestley and Rumer Godden acknowledge Dunne’s influence on their own narrative experiments, making it an interesting read.
Main idea: Each person's soul/psyche (I forget the exact term he uses) is not bound by time and can inform the mind (namely, in dreams) of things that have not yet happened in time.He recounts his experiment in which he takes detailed notes of his dreams for several weeks and would find that specific details of his dreams correspond to events happening days after the dream took place (my experiment was not nearly as successful as Dunne's, though there was that bat that showed up the day after being in a dream of mine).
The first half of the book is pretty interesting: Dunne discusses his experiment.
The second half was either way over my head or just crazy-talk: Dunne tries to discuss his theory in concrete terms.C.S. Lewis nods toward the book and Dunne's ideas in his The Dark Tower and Other Stories.
What a fascinating book, one that is now mostly forgotten but that inspired a generation of early- and mid-twentieth-century writers, including Flann O'Brien, J.R.R. Tolkien, Verlyn Flieger, and, indirectly, the writers of the TV series Lost. Dunne observed that he had precognitive dreams, but with a twist. The inferences that he makes from that about the nature of time are well worth examining, even though I personally think that his arguments are flawed. But the ideas themselves and his analysis and development represent a brilliant creation that deserves to be re-examined and enjoyed on its own terms.
An extremely interesting read which appears to me to have a very human story behind it. The science behind the book is no doubt dated, but I found it thrilling as a philosophical experiment that can actually be put into practice. Applied philosophy from an aeronautical engineer. It is also very much a book of its period, a febrile time of war, spiritualism, the 20th century scientific revolution and the exploration of the human mind. I am surprised it did not have more of an impact in the 1960s as it was very forward-looking.
A fascinating idea, and the physics is still good, but Dunne takes it all too far and ultimately fails to convince. Interesting to compare this with Julian Barbour's The End of Time, which doesn't go in for supernatural speculation but comes to somewhat similar conclusions about the nature of time based on ideas in current physics.
First published in 1927; Dunne started writing down his dreams and began to notice that some of them fit later waking life so exactly he couldn't write it off to coincidence, and he developed a whole theory "that in reality all Time is eternally present ie that past, present and future are all happening at the same time."http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Exper...
heard it was one of the first books to posit the concept of the "multiverse," turns out it's more of a pseudo-scientific argument in favor of the existence of God and/or the overmind. has some interesting bits here and there...
Can people remember the future? That's the basic premise. The author suggests that he had a few experiences that he remembered before they occurred. Especially those he had read about.He then sets out to prove the possibility.Interesting but I didn't get about 30% of it.
It's fun to read as a lucidly written occult thriller if you suspend disbelief over the core premise. I need to record my dreams more to see whether it truly has merit, but I suspect there's a lot of normal coincidence involved.
A book about precognition written in 1927. Unless you're highly motivated, I would not recommend. A difficult subject written in archaic language.
First part was good, second half is out of date due to lack of development in Quantum Mechanics in his day
Everything is broken.
Probably the most long-winded book I've ever tried to read. Good ideas but just takes too long to get to the point.
