https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28233082-the-girl-in-the-ice
I had plans today. I was going to do some Stuff...and thangs. But then I started this book. We had hotdogs for dinner and they were dang lucky to get them. I did not want to put this sucker down. A young, rich social type girl is found under the ice in the water in South London's less fortunate section. She has been brutally murdered and Daddy is having a fit wanting some one to pay. They call in Detective Erika Foster to lead the investigation, but every-time she starts to find out something he
The girl who died, Andrea may not have been the darling that the family wants her portrayed as.
Erica has a past also, she led a team that ended with her husband being killed so she is being watched from all angles.
The author does a really good job of pulling the reader back and forth and feeling Erica's frustration with the politics that seem to take charge in any kind of investigation.
She gives no shits to what anyone thinks.This was a really decent thriller and it's the authors first book, I'm excited to see where he takes Erica's character.
Christine read this book and brought it to my attention.
This is the debut in a new police procedural series starring DCI Erika Foster and once again I have found a brand new strong, female detective to love!
If you have enjoyed either of these series I HIGHLY recommend taking this up; you won't be sorry!We are hooked from the first page by the telling of Andrea Douglas-Brown's kidnapping and murder.
This book was a well constructed police procedural, but I also thoroughly enjoyed the story lines into the various characters personal lives as well.
I would LOVE to see more into Ericka's backstory in the next novel clearly, but I really enjoyed seeing Detective Moss' family life.
I'm going to have to go against the majority on this one, i'm not a fan.DCI Erika Foster: an individual recovering from serious trauma, who probably shouldn't be at work and certainly shouldn't be a lead investigator, spends the entire book snapping at people or being physically violent, makes the most ridiculous choices, e.g. investigating places alone.
She's not the only one who spends the book angsty, almost all the conversations seem to involve someone having a bit of a strop.
The killer reveal was less than a shock, more of a relief that it was nearly over.
Heart-stopping, Nail-biting, Pulse-racing!Detective Erika Foster has that level of intuition that separate the good detectives, from the great detectives.
With the recent murder of an influential, wealthy man's daughter, Foster's gut tells her something isn't adding up.
If you enjoyed the mystery series Eeny Meany by M.J. Arlidge, than you will definitely appreciate The Girl in the Ice, as well.
Both series have strong female leads, which is both appealing and refreshing.I'm definitely going to be polishing off the rest of the books in this series, as I thought The Girl in the Ice was highly suspenseful and extremely engaging.
I want my books to be how I like I like my ice cream..
SO GOOD! Addictive police procedural about a ballsy Detective Chief Inspector determined to take down a twisted killer.  Since there have been so many stellar reviews already written about The Girl in the Ice, I am going to write more about my reading experience vs. the plot. Right from the start, this book grabbed me. It begins with the murder of a wealthy socialite and progresses to focus on DCI Erika Foster who is brought in to solve the case. It only took me reading about 20% of this book b
Since there have been so many stellar reviews already written about The Girl in the Ice, I am going to write more about my reading experience vs.
I really took to Erika’s character--she’s tough as nails but vulnerable at the same time and she doesn’t always play by the rules (which often causes her to wind up in trouble).
Overall, this is a fast-paced, suspenseful read with some good twists led by a dynamic heroine.
Erika’s character is the reason why I will be reading all of the books in the series--I just wish I didn’t have so much catching up to do!
;-PSo what or rather who caused me to actually take a look at this book?It was my lovely Adam and I’m really thankful for her recommendation!!!
XDI mean how could you not end up loving her character and this book?!
I honestly don’t care right now – but look at these, take a look!” Erika held up the photos again.If you think Bryndza’s awesome heroine is the only reason to read this book you couldn’t be more wrong though.
I mean we have a total of two LGBTQ side characters and instead of only mentioning them, Bryndza actually decided to give them a little space.
The girl in the ice was named Andrea Douglas-Brown.
DCI Erika Foster was called in on the case by Chief Superintendent Marsh.
Foster was a brilliant DCI and Marsh knew she could get the job done if she was up to it.
Due to some unfortunate events, Foster was kicked off the case and the idiot DCI Sparks was put back in charge.
BUT, ya know, can't keep an awesome copper down so Foster was brought back on the case.
It turns out there was a whole s••• ton of bad things going on and Foster busts the case wide open.
4.5 starsI wish to thank Net Galley, Bookouture, and Robert Bryndza for an ARC of this book in exchange for an unbiased review.Robert Bryndza writes chick lit.
Because the Robert Bryndza who wrote this magnificent police procedural is a terrific thriller writer!
A few other reviewers have stated this book reminded them of the Kim Stone series by Angela Marsons, one of my very favorite authors.
I see huge potential in Mr. Bryndza’s writing, however, and would be totally surprised if he does not end up being in my exclusive shrine of favorites after another book or two.
You might know one of these characters, they might live next door.The book keeps you guessing and on edge, you will think you have it ALL worked out, but a good twisty reveal was very impressive, loved it.
Yet again a BRILLIANT book from Bookouture, they are signing up some brilliant authors that's for sure.Many thanks to Bookouture via NetGalley for my copy of this book to read and review.For more of my book reviews, plenty of awesome books to win, and author Q&A events come to: https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat...To follow me on Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/promotethatbook
Thank you to Robert Bryndza for such a stellar book.WoWzers!
I've had my eye on it and haven't been able to take that same eye off of it until I finished the final page.We are introduced to DCI Erika Foster who has been called in to investigate the death of Andrea Douglas-Brown in South London.
Is she truly ready to hit the ground running at this juncture?Andrea Douglas-Brown is the daughter of a rich and powerful man.
No mercy for Andrea and no mercy for those in the shadows of this death.You will be hitched to this storyline as it stampedes across the pages.
I was gripped from the first page, when socialite Andrea Douglas Brown, is abducted, beaten to death, and dumped in a pond, in a South London park.
DCI Erika Foster is called in to lead the investigation.
Erika's last case resulted in the death of her husband ( a fellow police officer ) and four of their colleagues.
Where does Andrea Douglas Brown fit into all of this?
I loved that we have a strong character in DCI Foster - one who isn't afraid to shake things up a bit - the storyline was compelling - and the last chapter in particular is a case of - hold your breath for the ride of a lifetime!* Thank you to Netgalley and Bookouture for my free copy*
3.5* Erika Foster is a brash, no nonsense Detective chief inspector assigned to a high profile murder case of a young woman found in a frozen pond.
With road blocks constantly in her way from the victims’ socialite family, government officials, and eventually her boss Superintendent Marsh, Erika forges ahead knowing her future and career are on the line.
Rob Bryndza has written a suspenseful, chilling book as Foster starts to uncover secrets and cover-ups, eventually placing her in the cross-hairs of the deranged killer.
A fast paced crime thriller will keep you mesmerized to the end when all the dots are finally connected and Foster comes face to face with the killer.
This book had a great build up from beginning to the end.
I really dislike when I read a book and it is great and then the ending comes out of left field.
I enjoyed this book from beginning to end.
The investigator in charge, Erika, comes with understandable baggage.
She is still recovering from her loss when she comes back to work as the officer in charge of this investigation.
The story is very well thought out and comes together very nicely in the end.
I loved that I did not figure out who the killer was until the end.
I enjoyed this book and will be anxiously awaiting the arrival of his next book with Erika Foster. I really enjoyed her as a strong leading lady. Definitely a force to reckon with. Just when I thought this book was wrapping up the plot twists and takes me down another path.
Copy furnished by Net Galley in exchange for a review.
The prologue grabbed me right by the goozle and I would have loved to have read the book straight through.
Life didn't allow for that this time, but the pacing was fantastic nevertheless.
Detective Inspector Erika Foster is a longtime veteran of rape and murder cases.
She goes with her gut and she is not afraid to call bullshit when it is merited.
British mystery thrillers tend to call my name rather often, and this one was mighty fine.
I appreciated the tip o' the hat to the excellent British detective series, Luther.
DCI Foster has been assigned to take the lead role on the case, even though there is resentment within the ranks.
Strong willed and smart, Detective Ericka Foster must approach this case in a methodical way, following the lines of enguiry, ID, Forensics, Autopsy and talking to the family.
Did Andrea know her killer?
DCI Ericka Foster, flawed character, makes her more appealable to the readers.
I would rank this debut novel with British authors like Angela Marsons, and Kathryn Croft.
This author is definitely on the way up!I highly recommend this debut thriller to all fans who love a good who-dun-it.
Sister Read Review by Norma & BrendaMy sister, Brenda and I decided to read THE GIRL IN THE ICE at the same time so we could chat about it and get each others input.
:)The Girl In The Ice is a gripping and suspenseful story that grabbed my attention from the very first few pages.
I found the title and cover of this book really appealing and I really enjoyed Robert Bryndza's writing style which was easy to follow along with the characters and storyline.
DCI Erika Foster is a likeable, interesting, entertaining, and strong character who is called in to lead the murder investigation of the girl that was found in the ice.
This may just become one of my favourite reads of the year because I was THAT impressed with Robert Bryndza's work! "Now, DCI Sparks, you are in danger of contaminating the crime scene. If you wish to continue to observe, I’ll ask that you follow proper procedure, suit up and shut up." Yaassssss!! You tell him! I studied Forensics at uni, so naturally I'm more observant about these things. As much as I love watching crime shows, they aren't very realistic. I just sit there thinking. . . why aren
"Now, DCI Sparks, you are in danger of contaminating the crime scene.
If you wish to continue to observe, I’ll ask that you follow proper procedure, suit up and shut up."
As much as I love watching crime shows, they aren't very realistic.
why aren't the detectives in a suit??
how are they so casually contaminating the crime scene??
This entire book had this cold, dark atmosphere which I constantly felt throughout.
With bodies turning up and people being afraid of a certain someone, it all felt so peculiar.
I felt compelled to keep reading because I HAD to know!
The author has created an amazing cast of characters that are real and totally believable.DCI Erika Foster, the main protagonist reminded me in some way of DCI Jane Tennison from Lynda La Plante's Prime Suspect Series.
A few sections are from the killer's POV, which gives one a glimpse into their thoughts, which I really liked.A great storyline, impressive writing, a fantastic sense of place and some clever twists and turns that had you truly guessing who the real killer was until the very end.I'm really looking forward to reading the next book in this series.Highly recommended.I loved this.....Erika visiting her dead husband's grave.........hell, I had a knot in my chest...
Loved this!
A fantastic debut police procedural by author Robert Bryndza.I started this book and was hooked immediately.
As Detective Ericka Foster gets her feet back under her after a personal tragedy, she is thrown into the investigation and soon finds out that Andrea isn't the only one with secrets to hide.This was a well thought out, fast paced thriller with believable characters that had depth and memorable qualities.
My favorite-Detective Foster.
I can't wait to see what is next in store for her and her team.I highly recommend this debut thriller to all fans who love a good who-dun-it.
This is the first book in a new crime series by Robert Bryndza featuring DCI Erika Foster.
I believe the author has agreed to write a three books in this series and if the other two are anything like this one, then I can't wait to read them.I find it hard to believe that the author usually writes romantic comedies and this is in fact his first crime novel.
I can't vouch for the other genre but this book was an excellent read and I couldn't read it quick enough in an attempt to find out what was going to happen next.If you like strong female characters then this book is for you.
Fantastic book!The Girl In the Ice is the first of what will be the DCI Erika Foster series.
Erika has to find a killer, while weaving around some interesting police politics, and trying to pull her life back together.I really enjoyed The Girl In The Ice. I love a good police procedural thriller.
And I always add points to books who make me guess all the way to the end!
Had NO IDEA who did it until the very end and that is quite rare for me – I think because I read so many of them I’m quite good at picking it.
Erika knows she can do it, she's smarter than this, and the story we see unfolding is as much as a desperate attempt of sorting herself out, as it is finding a warped serial killer.
I do look forward to reading Erika's story, the growth she must continue to carry out to try and keep her life from falling apart.
It's too late for me as the second has already been written, but I'd like to see Erika get some spark for life back, ditch those cigarettes, build her reputation and find some looove!
Very very good book! Great characters with depth and you cared about what they feeling and doing. Many twists and turns, the 2nd half of the book had non-stop action and suspense. It really had me on the edge of my seat and I couldn't put the book down until I found out how this story would end! Great storyline and very well written. I highlyrecommend this detective crime book! I will certainly read more books by this author.
The Girl In The Ice (Detective Erika Foster, #1) by Robert Bryndza started out really good. I think it worked too hard for the detective's boss to oppose her constantly. They were suppose to be solving a murder but the boss seemed determined to not let her do her job, seemed way over the top. It was a good story but could have been shorter. I would've liked it better a bit condensed. Loved the cover, that is what made me pick the book up. Narration was excellent.
4.5 starsI think this may be my new favorite series.
I love Erika Foster.
How could I not, with this description of her: “Erika has never quite mastered how to talk to children.
Rapists and murderers she could deal with, but children she found a little intimidating.” This is a fast paced mystery.
Erika has a nice blend of strength and foibles.
She’s learning the ins and outs of her new crew.
The good news is that by discovering this book so long after it was written, I can immediately latch onto the next two in the series.
In his new series, Robert Bryndza introduces readers to DCI Erika Foster, a passionate cop with a sordid past of her own.
Before she is able to get her legs under her, Foster is pushed to solve the case, as Douglas-Brown's father is an influential Labour Peer and demands full attention to hunt down his daughter's killer.
Like any good copper, Foster refuses to drop the case and pushes her team to continue the investigation, which brings the killer to her door and almost leaves her as another victim.
DCI Erika Foster is definitely the mate we all want to have a beer with and probably one of a handful of literary characters that we would want to solve our own murder.
From the very first chapter, I just had a feeling that another series was going on my TBR shelf.
Reeling from the recent loss of a beloved husband, Erika finds a fresh new start in a different police station with new work colleagues and an interesting murder case.
I was thoroughly engaged in this thriller from start to finish and I felt that Robert Bryndza managed to create characters that were both tough and full of heart.
I wasn't able to read much of it at any one sitting, which is my usual m.o.Erika Foster is brought in to solve the murder of the daughter of a rich, powerful man.
Erika is hampered by politics within the department.
Every time the upper muckity-mucks came down hard on Erika, my personal fairness meter went into the red zone.The book was well written and flowed well, but I didn't really get any deep connection to any of the characters.
The first time Erika walked into the office, my impression was that she wasn't welcome.
I'm happy to report that my first excursion into DCI Erika Foster's world of high stakes serial killer hunting did not disappoint!
The urgency of the situation, and the desperation Erika feels to crack the case and put the killer behind bars is palpable the whole way through.
I've read a few mystery thrillers where the author leverages the reveal as an unfair twist to shock the reader one last time, which never fails to annoy me.
There are a slew of really well crafted characters here, but obviously my favorite of the bunch is Erika Foster herself.
