https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1470365.Lucky_Starr_and_the_Rings_of_Saturn
This is the last of the series and for me a far more for filling read, there are actual politics and reasonings at work here as shown at the end of the book when the conference takes place (go on read the book I am not giving anything away).
For me the book will always be a juvenile read however as is the case with many of Asimov's books there is far more thought and work gone in to their writing than many give him credit for.
Lucky Starr and the Rings of Saturn (Lucky Starr, #6), Isaac Asimov Lucky Starr and the Rings of Saturn is the final novel in the Lucky Starr series, six juvenile science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov that originally appeared under the pseudonym Paul French.
Bigman said, "You know, Lucky, it's nearly nine hundred million miles away. The Sun, I mean. I've never been out this far."Oh, Asimov. How we love your dialogue. Scientists totally talk like that. And in Imperial.
Was his series of young-adult Lucky Starr novels merely the public expression of an escapist fantasy universe, or did he intend to win young, intelligent minds to scientific inquiry by showing just how cool science could be?In the final story in the Lucky Starr series, we finally meet Earth's sinister enemies, the Sirians.
Lucky and the Council of Science, however, have their own ideas about the purpose of Lucky's voyage.While not the strongest story in the series (I would give that award to Oceans of Venus), Rings of Saturn is both the most complex and most suspenseful.
Lucky Starr is always a fun read. These are quick adventures of James Bond mixed with Star Wars. I have to admit that the side kick is a little annoying, but it always pans out in the end.
The Council of Science, an organization sworn to protect Earth and its neighboring planets with minimal violence, fears that the Sirians have become too powerful to defeat.After a Sirian spy named Dorrance escapes Earth custody, Councilmen David "Lucky" Starr and and his tiny-but-mighty companion John Bigman Jones set off after him in their ship, the Shooting Starr along with several vessels from the Terrestial fleet.
Will the other planets vote against Earth and allow the Sirians to occupy Titan as a prelude to war?Lucky Starr and the Rings of Saturn is the final volume in a series of six.
Nice conclusion to the series...SPOILERS AHEAD!!!During the whole series we only witness the Space Ranger once, and the unlikely use of the Sooting Starr once as well, although it was used several times in a “likely” way. I was glad to meet the Sirians and also quite glad to see more robots, but of course the main point was seeing Lucky save the Terrestrial Federation and avoid war, for now.
Liked this wrap-up to this series
Another in the Lucky Starr series. Like the others, you need to keep in mind when it was wrtitten...
Un gran conflicto. Me gustó la resolución final, el mundo que los sirianos hicieron suyo y las particularidades de los habitantes de otros mundos. Me encantan Bigman y Lucky.
Some interesting facts about Saturn and its ring system (I didn't notice any inaccuracies, though more is known about Saturn now than when the book was written), and other stellar bodies (though Vesta does *not* have a calcium carbonate surface).
Not that there was a single woman mentioned elsewhere in the book, but you'd think somewhere in the universe some human system could escape patriarchy.
The fact that these laws don't make sense is used as a plot device to short-circuit some robot captors.
'Space' was used as an expletive (was he even trying?).It would make sense for a space/science-interested young boy to want to read this, and to get something out of reading this...
The capsule contains intelligence gathered by many robot spies seeking to gain access to earth's superior technical advances, presumably including the coveted anti-grav device.
The crisis accelerates as it is discovered the Sirians are in the process of colonizing the Saturn system, a breach of custom, to say the least, amongst the outer 50 worlds and earth in which a solar system is assumed the property of the first colonizer.
The rash and irrepressible Martian, John Bigman Jones, and Lucky are captured by the Sirian Devoure, outpost leader of Titan.
Devoure plays unwittingly into Lucky's clever but very uncertain plan to save earth.
Stretching a bit (but not too much to break it!) the Science to fit the Fiction of a solar system peopled by human colons and extraterrestrial intelligent life forms, Asimov cooks up a fun, fresh and adventurous space opera saga, peppering it with quite a few Western genre tropes and leaving the tone evolve to a Cold War investigations series (moving with the author’s times, so to say).
series: an added value for any Asimov enthusiast!Written in the immediate aftermath of the Sputnik I launch by the Soviet Union (4 October 1957), this last adventure of the “Space Ranger” is the one that most resonates of Cold War themes using the Terran-Sirian standoff to mimic the USA-URSS tension lived by the author and his first readers.
In the final book of the Lucky Starr series, the running cat and mouse game between the Earthmen and the Sirians finally turns into a face-to-face confrontation.
A mysterious Sirian, Agent X, is pursued away from Earth all the way to the rings of Saturn.
There, Lucky and Bigman discover that the Sirians have begun to colonize the Saturnian system.
Is their claim to the system legal?This is a decent conclusion to the Lucky Starr series.
The finale effectively resolves the Sirian situation to round out the sextet.
Even at the time I read them in my early 20s, I was not greatly inspired by these, but then again, Issac Asimov wrote them in the 1950s as juvenile science fiction novels under the pseudonym Paul French.
As Asimov admits in the 1970s authors note, the knowledge about the planets and moons has changed greatly, and obviously much much now in 2016.
So, there is that problem about reading sci-fi when you already know the science knowledge is significantly out of date.
Still, that doesn't stop me watching schlock sci-fi movies.

Well well well, this book was good enough to push me over the edge and want to read all of Asimov’s novels – he truly is the king of science fiction, and he writes here with aplomb and a vivid imagination.
The idea of humans colonising other worlds is nothing new, but Asimov has created an entirely new political system and new branches of technology which don’t exist, and his universe feels complete and full of depth.The story-line is cracking, too – it all comes together at the end in a twist that you don’t see coming, and Lucky Starr, the protagonist, is a joy to read about.
It’s a good thing that this is just one book in a series, then!
Its age makes it feel like a somewhat sillier style of science fiction due to the formal style of dialogue and sentence structure, but the book is a quick read and clever enough to engage with; my favorite part is the forward, written after publication but still almost fifty years ago, explaining how science has since uncovered new information about the rings of saturn that renders the novel's description inaccurate and apologizing that even the most forward-thinking science fiction writer cannot foresee every such discovery. I don't know why this pleases me so much, but it does.
Genial historia que tanca la saga del mestre Asimov. Aquest cas el llibre si sorprèn i no és previsible facilment com els anteriors dos volums, en Lucky Starr s'enfronta, per fi, a l'enemic comú en totes les novel•les: Sirio i resol una situació peluda d'una bona forma! He gaudit amb aquest llibre tot i que entenc la saga com esgotada.El personatge s'assembla a Vorkosigan i per molt que hagi sortit de la ploma d'Asimov, em captiva molt més Vorkosigan que Starr.Bona saga pels no iniciats a la ciència ficció i pel jovent!
#6 in the Lucky Starr series.Lucky Starr, Space Ranger, and his sidekick Bigman Jones, track a Sirian spy to Saturn where they encounter a Sirian base on Titan. The Sirians accuse them of being spies but they urge a Galactic Conference to determine what rules should apply to allow colonization of a new world.
Date read is approximate.
Good, but Bigman steadily grows into nothing but a caricature and is used too didactically in this last installment.
El sexto de la saga. Entretenimiento y datos astronómicos en el mismo pack.Investigacion criminal en el espacio.
El que más más me gustó de la Saga, Bigman mi personaje favorito y que tiene mayor participación y lo mejor el manejo de los argumentos.
1ST NEL PBACK EDITION. WRITING AS PAUL FRENCH. 5TH IN THE SPACE RANGER SERIES. THERE IS A 6TH BOOK: THE MOONS OF JUPITER - BUT I'VE NEVER SEEN IT.
Good at the time
Cool book. Read in a way like the sci-fi version of a Clancy novel.
A good ending to the series. It gets a little political and farcical, but it's a good time. I recommend this series to anyone with a young person interested in space and good times.
The series was left open for more installments, I guess, because there is no ultimate ending for Lucky.
Grade B. Book Ls6.
