https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124682.Secret_Seven_Mystery
I'm 25 years old and I still enjoy The Secret Seven. Enough said.
The Secret Seven search for a missing girl21 October 2014 Unlike many of the other Secret Seven books that I have read, this one pretty much launches straight into the adventure. The reason is probably because this one is a little more complex than a lot of the other adventures where Blyton seems to use the beginning as a sort of filler for a much shorter story (though as I think about the previous one, Three Cheers Secret Seven, the filler sets the scene for the adventure). Right from page one
It is difficult to know what to write about these books this far into the series because while they are not necessarily the same, it feels difficult to actually get all that much more out of the story without simply giving a synopsis (which I won't do because that would give too much away).
Thus, being a child and being immersed in such stories gives us the picture of a tranquil world that is only occasionally pierced by criminal elements.
Even then, some of these elements have innocent purposes anyway, such as in Three Cheer's Secret Seven, where the criminal activity ended up having a noble purpose (and I won't say what that was because I didn't say that in my commentary of that book).
Gostei. Embora esta não seja uma das minhas coleções favoritas da autora, já que os personagens, sobretudo o Peter, não me cativam, foi um bom livro e um bom mistério, se bem que um pouco previsível.
My 5 year old son told me, after we finished reading this book tonight, that when he is ten he will find some friends and be the exciting eight. We are really enjoying reading this series together.I particularly liked this one because I was surprised at the end. It follows the usual formula and I had worked out most of the mystery, but there was an extra twist that I didn't see coming.
Secret Seven Book 9*Secret Seven Mystery*Enid Blyton does it yet again!
The secret seven do not exactly solve the complete mystery and it was just some kind of absent minded search for a trail but in the end Peter identifies our lost girl very well thanks to her brother Charles.
Comparatively, this book was generously written with a brilliant beginning and a wonderful end.
A wonderful and a unique read from the Secret Seven Mystery Series.
Blyton delivers simple and original ideas.
Of course, it's not aimed at adults and I can't remember whether the solution was so clear when I first read this as a little kid.
REVIEW: I re-read this in between the opening and main acts of two One Direction concerts.
I figured I could cope with this level of reading in the midst of a lot of screaming.
This one's all a bit obvious, really, isn't it?Previously read 7 Dec 2009 - review: I was never really a Secret Seven fan when growing up, so I suppose it's not surprising that I wasn't that impressed as an adult either.
Elizabeth Mary Wilhelmina Sonning is a young girl who was accused of stealing some money at school and has run away from home.
Simple to read, easy to follow and with a trademark Blyton twist in the tale, this was one delightful book, reiterating why Enid Blyton’s books from the 1950s and 60s are relevant and fun even today.
So why am I (a 36 year old) even reviewing a children’s book?
Coincidentally, my elder fellow had picked up this Secret 7 book from his library just last week.
Watch out for more reviews of children’s books in the coming weeks!
This was a story about a girl who ran away from home when she was in school and people thought she had stolen stuff and that really happened.
But I didn’t like the beginning because the mystery straight way happened in a flash.
Then peter and Janet told their mother where Mrs Sonning the girl’s mother who really missed her.
An exciting part of the book was when they were in some bushes of Mrs Sonnings garden and spying if they could find the girl.
I think you should read this book because you will get surprised but I didn’t really get surprised.
Another mystery adventure for the seven upper middle class toffs of Peterswood to solve. the stories are fairly brief, but even then they have some padding in them to get to their length.This one is better than some of the others, but again pretty average, and the characters are more annoying than in some of Blyton's other series. Anyway roll on towards number ten, and now 60% of the series is completed
The second Secret Seven book that I read. It's an interesting and exciting story. The end was so surprising for me but it was smart and impressive. The girl who ran away because she got accused of stealing her teacher\s money came back to her family and everything was fine. I like the SS series even though it's about some kids solving mysteries but the series seems so exciting and well made.
I like the story.it is about a girl who runs away from home.when I first read the story I thought about it for awhile than I started to picture of what is going on
Good one
Brilliant.
A girl got lost after she stole something at her granny's. The stable kids and the seven investigate to try and find the girl with clues. They find out something very sneaky
Baca buku anak itu... selalu menyenangkan.
Peter gives her a cryptic clue, but also thinks it is time she was taught a lesson and says he won't let her come to the meeting if she doesn't know the password.
Luckily she remembers in time, but blunders by shouting it out — not once, but three times.Then Pam can't remember the password and Peter won't let her in.
She picked a bad time though, and Peter gets Jack and the girls to get rid of her.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
The set of series is great for Junior School KidsI read all the books from them and are very thrilling and interesting.
Secret Seven Mystery: 9 (The Secret Seven Series) is a children's adventure story book.
Part of the Secret Seven series, the book narrates one of the many adventures of the Secret Seven, a detective community made up of a group of children.
The book narrates a particular case they encounter when a young girl named Elizabeth Sonning, accused of stealing money from her mistress, disappears.
The gang heads back and groups in to discuss and understand their findings.Meanwhile Jack's sister Susie discovers some clippings of the girl in Jack's room.
I read the Galaxy Large Print Children's Edition, ISBN 0-7540-6098-5, 104 pages.Peter's father reads about a missing runaway girl and suggests that the Secret Seven help search.
But then a local stable boy says he saw someone of her description a good distance away, someone who was going to France....Back cover blurb: "The Seven are hunting for a girl who has run away from home, and use their ingenuity in following up all the clues.
Jack's naughty sister, Susie, plays her usual tricks on the Seven, but in spite of her their quest has a happy ending."(finished 2007-12-02 22:48EST)
Susie is as fun as ever in this story!
Poor Jack has to cop a lot of annoyance from the secret seven because of having Susie for a sister.
Biking around the beautiful countryside solving mysteries with friends seems like a great way to spend your free time!
Though of course, at nine years of age there was no way I would have ever been allowed to cycle to a friend's house for a meeting at 5pm.
But who cares for things like that - this is the secret seven after all, and it just wouldn't be the same without so much freedom.
one of the best in their era. Just read this book today. Another case, Peter and friends want to find a girl who run away from her auntie's house because they said that she stool her teacher's money.With couriousity, Peter and friends tracking her and knowing where she hide.This story is still good for kids in this era, no one gonna tell this is an old one because it's always be one of the best adventure/detective book ever :)
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
Listened in the car with the girls. The Secret Seven always strikes me as more unwieldy than the Famous Five. All those kids, and most of them don't do anything. I mean Barbara? What's the point of her. And I totally guessed that Tom was the missing girl in disguise, way earlier than Peter worked it out. Come on Blyton, you one trick pony.
A decent mystery, though of course any Enid Blyton buff guesses the outcome almost as soon as we're introduced to the new characters. I never liked the Secret Seven as much as other books, probably because the seven never stand out in any way shape or form except Peter in my mind. A quick read, can't give the full five stars though, so a four will do!
A girl runs away after being accused of theft, and Peter's father suggests the Secret Seven try to find her.As usual they snoop around and question people, at one point they even sneak out of their houses in the middle of the night to keep watch in someone's garden. I didn't enjoy this one as much as the other Secret Seven books.
There is only one real aspect to the mystery here, and if you solve it quite quickly or remember what it is then the book might seem a bit boring and slow-paced. The first time you read it, however, it's a pretty nice reveal. There is no characterisation on the Seven.
Baca ulang edisi inieh... numpang baca edisi ini.Setelah sekian tahun, masih saja terpesona dengan kisah2 si Eyang Enid Blyton.Mempertimbangkan gimana kalo beli bookset-nya yahmelengkapi punyaku yg pada raib di gondol oranghem....dilema
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
good
