https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11007587-zero-day
Reacher sorries, Puller is a big dude, and he likes to punch people.
Jack Reacher John Puller comes from a military family.
His brother was a top officer who worked in top secret investigaions and eventually died was a top officer who worked in top secret nuclear stuff and was convicted of treason.The first half of this Reacher Puller novel rolls around quite nicely, with Reacher damn, sorry, Puller punching bad dudes, making out with the lady cops, and generally being the badass that he has been in all the other Reacher novels never has been before, because this is the first Puller novel.Then shit gets terrible wierd.SPOILER IN PARAGRAPH BELOWRemember that time when Reacher, man I gotta stop doing that, 
Probably not one of Baldacci’s best books but still a very good read.
I rather liked John Pullen and felt a little sad for him and his Dad and brother.
Pullen’s character was developed well throughout the book as was that of his ‘partner’ Sam. There was a little bit of stereotyping and occasional over the top moments but mostly our two main characters got on with the business of catching the baddies and trying not to get blown up.I would classify Zero Day as light entertainment, forgive it it’s faults and just go along for the ride.
Red.Poorly written.Cliche-filled.This is a book.
It is a book with a red cover.
That is supposed to make the reader feel like things are happening.
I guess.This book is about a man, Puller.
Puller is in the Army.
Medals are not important but they impress people who are impressed by things like that.
They get rich from mining things.
They own things.
In the basement.Puller goes places.
He goes there for one purpose.
The stink of death sticks to him.
Like glue.Puller is tough.
While there, he learns these deaths may have very large implications.The story really falls short in a number of ways.
John Puller's character was interesting and unique but he had this magic rucksack that contained everything from bio-hazard gear to explosives and night vision gear (and everything in between).
It just seemed completely implausible this character could be so perfect in so many ways and be able to carry all that equipment in the rucksack.
As you can tell, the rucksack issue really bothered me.I did listen to this book from Audible.com and the characters were really well played by Ron McLarty and Orlagh Cassidy.
The hero was too heroic, a super hero who could solve a murder, beat up the toughest, be a CSI tech, & figure out the crime from a mark in the dust.
But he can't figure out the difference between the sound of a fan & a possible opponent.
Ugh.Possibly worse, Baldacci kept describing everything in gory detail.
I don't particularly care about the 7 dozen items he has in his CSI bag with 100 pockets in it, either.Then there are the yokel locals, the girl, the young kid who will worship him & the evil coal company...
Baldacci's main character -- Army investigator John Puller -- is a dull twin of Lee Child's popular protagonist Jack Reacher.
The first time Puller craved coffee, I thought "Reacher." Aside from a strange (I hope coincidental) similarity to a well-known contemporary character, this book is filled with unnecessary details, unbelievable coincidences and too-obvious messages about topics as far-ranging as protecting the environment to bad behavior caused by health issues.
How Puller and Cole discover why the initial murders were committed involves so many twists and unnecessary minor characters, the biggest mystery is how I managed to finish this book.
I really like this author and have enjoyed reading most of his books.This is the 1st book in the John Puller Series and introduces John Puller, the hero, who works in the military.Good writing, good plot and some great characters.Enjoyable read.
At a crime scene, Baldacci's shameless clone of Jack Reacher, here called Puller, started explaining in relentless, unpitying and irrelevant detail how to take a flash photograph.
Like Reacher's impressive physique and stone cold manner, Baldacci seems to have adopted his encyclopedic array of trivia as well for his own hero.
If it were a radio play, that would be one thing, but in the context of an audiobook the random intrusion of a completely different voice, obviously not recorded at the same time or place, is jarring and breaks up the flow, and here makes a bad situation worse.It's very rare when I have to toss a book aside.
I have read a few books by this author and have never been disappointed until now.
Now I normally do not have any issue with this authors writing style until now.
The main character is Puller who is a highly decorated and obviously has issues regarding PTSD.
He saves a lot of people but remembers the one's he couldn't save.Puller is a good guy.
The bad guys in this book are evil.
When Puller go's on an investigation the guy has this bottomless pit rucksack that seems to hold everything he needs.
It's a good action novel just kind off predictable.
I really like David Baldacci's books.
The protagonist is military and a lot of acronyms are used that I don't know.
Like I said, Baldacci is brilliant and he understands a lot of things that I don't having to do with forensics which I find fascinating.
I watched Medium for a couple of years until it got too weird.
Weird as in sadistic and shocking.
I know Baldacci does a lot of forensic information in his books.
I know the criminals are sadistic at times.
If you like Baldacci, read it.
If you've not read his books before, I'd start with another one.
David Baldacci never exerts to disappoint his readers.
Zero Day was occasional boring: when John Puller tried to investigate local people of Drake.
I did not want Samantha Cole to die as, like Puller, I have also built a bond like feeling with her.Even if living in Asia, I do not believe, building a nuke is as easy as David Baldacci has placed in his book.Overall, it was a very interesting book and I'd recommend to those interested in reading a really good thriller.
I'm also looking forward to reading more of John Puller series.
When I first noticed John Puller, the first thing that struck me were his obvious similarities to Jack Reacher.
Obviously, this resemblance combined with the fact that the series is authored by David Baldacci, meant that I had high expectations and wasted no time in reading it.Now that I have finished it, I am a bit disappointed though.
On the positive side, John Puller's character as well as those surrounding him are fleshed out well.
But this attention to detail is let down by the weak and lack lustre plot.
I was also a bit let down by the lack of action.
I am a huge fan of the Will Robie series, so I thought I'd try the John Puller books.
I'll be adding him to list of Kickbutt heroes.I prefer Will Robie over John Puller, but I definitely enjoyed this book and plan on continuing to read it.
John is a good 21st Century hero, a man of honor, integrity, intellect but also physical skills and capabilities that carry him through and make him an interesting and admirable lead character.I'd recommend this to action/adventure suspense fans, especially for those look for an NCIS-style book.
Although Puller is dedicated Army, he runs without a safety net throughout the book.
The Army is his life and his passion is it’s Criminal Investigative Division.
Puller ends up partnering with Sam Cole and the two of them bond through their mutual desire to find the perpetrators’ of mayhem in an impoverished coal mining community in West Virginia.
Once again Baldacci paints such a vivid picture.
His characters are both larger than life and realistically human.
I worked in an impoverished Appalachian coal community years ago.
Baldacci accurately captures the poverty and despair that often results from long term un or under employment.
I read "The Forgotten" (the 2nd of John Puller series) and enjoyed it so I had high expectations going into this book.
This is the 1st John Puller series who is a Military investigator / CID.
The 1st 100 pages was good but then the pace didn't seem to pick up, for a thriller it was quite unexciting.
The plots weren't strong enough and it felt too ambitious.
I didn't really enjoy this Puller series.
Its just that I wouldn't recommend it to anybody whose looking for a fast paced, exciting plots and great characters.
Spare me the rhapsodies about the U.S. military.
Glorifying our military misadventures in the Middle East and Afghanistan isn't helpful.
It speaks only to manipulating the patriotic fervor of others.Puller's love interest never comes to fruition - so he is left (like the archetypal cowboy of the American western) with only his horse and his quest for justice to keep him warm at night.
Oy.The good guy is perfect - and modeled on hundreds of archetypal American hero types.
The bad guys are really, really bad.
Others have mentioned that Baldacci used Child's Reacher as the model for Puller.
Come on Baldacci.
The series centers around John Puller, a combat veteran and the best military investigator in the Army’s Criminal Investigative Division.
Puller’s older brother, Robert, was a Major in the Air Force but is now serving a life sentence in federal military prison for treason.Puller is sent out to a remote coal-mining town in West Virginia to investigate the horrifying deaths of an Army Colonel and his family.
While investigating the murder of the family, Puller uncovers more mysteries in this little town that indicate that things are definitely not as they appear on the surface.This is a great opening to a new series for me.
I wanted to know how it ended but getting there was pretty rough.So the main character is John Puller Jr. Puller is an Army CID Investigator who is the son of America's greatest Soldier and is no slouch himself.
At least Mr. Baldacci had the decency to kill off a major character but that is the only cliche he avoided en route to this toilet bowl reader (not as demeaning as it implies, this book sat on the back of a toilet and I read it while in the bathroom).
If you liked this novel, good, please continue reading anything and everything you can.
And now we have "Zero Hour" which is a very hard book to review...The good news is that this is the best book from the author in some while, a fast paced page turner about an US Military investigator looking into some deaths in a small town and realising there is a far bigger picture.....The bad news is that I am astonished at how this rips off Lee Child's Jack Reacher!
It's astonishing almost to the degree that it is funny.But it actually ain't bad and Reacher fans will probably enjoy this while thinking Mr Baldacci has a bit of a cheek.
Puller is quite the tough guy. And an effective CID.I had trouble putting this down, but I didn’t like the end. Boo!
I’ve not read any David Baldacci books before, and I only started with this one because it sat at the top of the UK charts with a bunch of good reviews and a 20p price tag – but I’m glad I picked it out, and I’m giving it four stars.
If you see what I mean.The story begins with John Puller being assigned to investigate the murder of an entire family.
This is not gritty realism, this is a CSI-style procedural detective story, with thriller action in the end game – also very much like a Jack Reacher book.
Zero Day was like bad action movie, so clichéd that my fingers and toes combined aren't enough to count the times I rolled my eyes or laughed at the absurdities in the story.
Create a big enough boom or kill off as many as you can and the reader won't mind that the story is hollow, right?
A few hundred unnecessary acronyms won't hurt, either, it will just distract the reader from realizing that the characters are pretty hollow as well.Puller, the protagonist, is more like a robot than an actual human being.
Our hero a warrant officer investigator for the Army CID (Criminal Investigation Division) gets called to WV when a flag officer and his entire family are murdered.
At first things get more and more convoluted...as they also become more and more deadly.The book does a good job of laying out the investigation and it does a good job of building the characters.
These are supposed to (I suppose) give us more insight into the people involved and also the local.
Coal mining is a very controversial topic.
I won't take a stand here, I'll just say that by the time you finish this book you'll have no doubt where David Baldacci stands.
Eerily similar to Lee Child's The Affair. An Army CID goes to a small town to investigate the murder of an Army officer and his family, and becomes embroiled in local town politics and policing. Nobody is quite sure why John Puller is alone nor why Homeland Security and other senior governmental officers have an ongoing interest in the case, especially in a small coal town in West Virginia. Local motorcycle gang is cooking meth, but the real danger is much more dangerous, involving an Army cover-up of long-forgotten Cold War activities.
A new series by David Baldacci that I've started. The main character is a CID (Criminal Investigation Division) agent named John Puller. He's a really interesting character, he's like a Clint Eastwood no nonsense kind of guy who gets the job done. In Zero Day Puller is called to a small rural community in West Virginia to investigate a murder. The story keeps you guessing up until the very end who's behind it all, many twists and turns and awesome character development! Now I can't wait to read more Puller adventures!
Its as though Baldacci was being paid by the word as apposed to writing a tight cohesive novel that I've grown accustomed to reading. The rest of this story is unnecessarily long and only the crisp ending raises this novel to 5 of 10 stars
Title: Zero Day (John Puller Series #1)Author: David BaldacciPages: 448Year: 2012Publisher: Grand Central PublishingMy rating is 5+ out of 5 stars.My first novel that I read from this author was a story in another series with the main character being a man named Amos Decker.
The case could be the last one of John’s career as he isn’t getting help to find those responsible for the Colonel’s death and bodies are starting to stack up as John comes closer ever so slowly to the final piece that will expose the danger to America!
The next book in the series is titled, The Forgotten, which I cannot wait to start to see what case John will be working and where!
it doesn't detract from the pleasure of the book.John Puller is a career military man, a CID investigator with a tough exterior and soft heart and soul.
His brother is serving a life sentence for treason at Leavenworth (we never do learn exactly what he did to earn this), and his father is a retired army general, so the military blood runs thick through Puller's veins.
The husband/father was with the DIA (Defense Intelligence Agency) and Puller is sent to find if the murders are connected to something the man was working on.
I really enjoyed getting to know the major characters in the novel.
Baldacci develops them on multiple levels, really allowing readers to get the inside track on the story.
The main character easily carried this story forward, keeping me coming back for more.The audio version of this novel was great.
I thoroughly enjoyed listening to them.
The sound effects that were built in to the story took it up to another level.
They ramped up the intensity at times and really brought the entire concept home.Baldacci has once again created a story that kept me hooked.
I typically like Baldacci's books and this one was ok.
I have never read any of those books (although now I'm going to!) to make that comparison, so that was lost on me.
I noted in the acknowledgements that Baldacci seemed to do quite a bit of research on this, so I won't insult a writer by assuming he just looked stuff up on Wikipedia.
:) It was detailed enough for me -- even if some stuff seemed a little TOO elementary.I figured out where the plot was going but there were some good twists and turns.
