https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166396.Short_Stories_From_Rabindranath_Tagore
This is a beautiful collection of short stories. Although the stories are somewhat driven by fates, the protagonists are original in their actions, and the themes linger in mind long after I put them down. Tagore has great insight in human psyche and behavior
I acted and behold, service was a joy.""You can't cross the sea merely by standing and staring at the water.""The butterfly counts not months but moments, and has time enough.""Death is not extinguishing the light; it is only putting out the lamp because the dawn has come.""Faith is the bird that feels the light when the dawn is still dark.""Let your life lightly dance on the edges of Time like dew on the tip of a leaf.""Every child comes with the message that God is not yet discouraged of man.""Don't limit a child to your own learning, for he was born in another time.""Trees are the earth's endless effort to speak to the listening heaven."Simple and short, such timeless meaning and a universal appeal to it!!!
Some of these stories are dull and vapid, others are engrossing and fascinating--so it's not the mere litany of facts, but the way in which they are shown to us.Most stories have subtext: a meaning that's never quite stated outright, but which becomes obvious through the relationships as they are depicted.
There's a great concept for a bit of subtext in the story, but the way Tagore delivered it was very disappointing.In the opening paragraphs, we are told:
That would be a very poignant way of looking at the relationship--except that when the author just blandly states it instead of actually showing it in action, it loses a great deal of its strength.
Watching tv during dinner is a family ritual in our house.
I generally stay away from tv, but tv during dinner time is sacred to me.
So these days, the 'rents and I have been watching Stories by Rabindranath Tagore and they are so lovely in their quaintness that it makes me weep.
(I just had a good weepfest while watching Kabuliwaala) I have read a couple of these stories as a child but they were scattered over the years so I don't remember much.
But I don't remember a lick of it.
I wish I could read the original text.
I am a Bengali, and have read all these stories in Bengali language. When I read the same in English, I had a thought passing. There are some expressions that are innate and inherent to one specific language. No other language in the entire world can capture the exact emotion. I love his work.Although, I enjoyed reading the same in my language better, nevertheless a book that would open the ajar door of Bengali emotions completely. I guess my other Bengali friends would feel the same.
I just joined the Iconic India challenge in the History Group.
And this is one I chose to read.
One of India's greatest writers, he captures a feeling of the life of India in his stories.
Much like Anton Chekhov does for Russia.
He tells his stories without judgement.
We are left to draw our own conclusions.
Unlike the west, death in this framework is never the end to be avoided.
There is a gentle fatalism that is not devoid of hope.
I loved the stories, they have a simple beauty, full of deep understanding of and compassion for the human condition.
Thid book doesn't need any review. The story never gets old. So many emotions. Genius Genius man.
Amazing short stories which bridge time and space as only real classics can do. Subtle characterizations, painful insights and light irony - need to read more of this.
With realistic portrayals and stories that touch one's hearts and move us in gentle ways , these short stories are no exception and provide to us reading material that targets the heart.
While I've read some of these stories in school , it has been a pleasure to read them again - at a different age , with a different perspective which to me is the most beautiful thing about re-reading books...it shows us how much we have changed as we perceive it differently every single time.
The stories are set in Bengal , and encompass varied raw human emotions.
Happy reading.
Recently finished short stories by Tagore. I don't have much to say, it would be like showing lamp to sun. these are simple, soul touching stories. After reading this you will find how progressive and beyond time Tagore's thinking was. Most of these stories are relevant even today. You should probably read this to properly understand, not only bengal but the journey of india as a society.
Each and every story in this collection rings of classic Tagore. For anyone looking to delve into the universe of India's greatest author and thinker, the collection of Short Stories is probably the best place to start. As far as the stories go, each is my favorite, and that being that most were translated by Tagore himself, they are a gem to read. Highly recommend it!
The endings are a little repetitive and become predictable after you have read the first few stories. The somber tone of the stories is, maybe, representative of the times in which they were written. A quick read, and definitely worth one!
Brilliant. Makes you fall in love with literature again and again.
Rabindranath has a unique way of storytelling..I have always loved the strong women characters in his stories. You can't keep a book down unless you finish itCabuliwalah has always been my favorite story since childhood and it still doesn't get old. All other stories in this part are also very interesting
Man who always upholds his views through his stories!! Truly liberating ones ...
I've read Tagore's stories as a kid and was always touched by varying emotions that his characters and plot held.
As an adult, his tone of writing has exceptionally awed me.
His writing style can effortlessly strike a chord with you in a way that makes you long for the familiarity and nostalgia that is found in his works.
They were all emotional and psychologically multi layered, which shows Tagore's immense knowledge in human psyche.
It's painful and heartbreaking, but it touches you like nothing else.Needless to say, English translation doesn't do much justice to his original works.
Short stories by Rabindranath Tagore – A collection of ten short stories written by Rabindranath Tagore Nobel laureate in Literature. Rabindranath Tagore was as a writer, a poet, and a painter. The stories are all set in the background of Bengal. Each story is unique and simple in its own way. The stories interesting mainly revolve around people and relationships. Not all story have happy endings though! The Cabuliwallah; was my personal favourite.
I'll use this one book to symbolize all the Tagore story compilations I've read. It's sometimes difficult to take Tagore in large doses -- his characters almost always end up defeated by their own flaws, or by societal forces. But this bleakness is also almost always accompanied by a subtle but clear ironic narrative outlook. What I find fascinating about Tagore is how his characters are so clear and human even though they exist in such an alien culture.
One of the reason why I want to learn Bengali, just so that I can read his original scripts. Though translated copies do get me emotional as it should. But I still wonder what an unadulterated version would make me feel like. One of the Genius who understood simple human emotions. Love each of his stories. Kabuliwallah being my favourite
A collection of sad storiesWhen a Bengali story is translated, you expect it to be a tragedy. And most of the stories in this book were.Tagore's characters don't have an iota of extravagance. Almost as if they're alive. Read this only if you can read a story and get it out of your mind quickly. If you can't, they're powerful enough to push you into grief.
Set in 30's Calcutta,Rabindranath Tagore's stories seems like a justified narration of life of people living back than.The simplicity of their intentions, complexity of emotions... and purity of characters is something every story carries forward. If not inspired by true stories, fiction is at most believable platform here.
All stories of Rabindranath Tagore had that dangling ending. In all the stories, I can see was the shades of sorrow that every character has gone though in his/her life. Though in the end things gets better a bit, but it still has the touch of gloominess in it. Stories are close to real life experiences rather than imaginary happy world.
I'm amazed by how this man wrote a 100 years ago! Definitely ahead of his time! Very poignant stories, some outright saddening! But every story was worth more than its words. No wonder he got Nobel prize for literature. I'm looking forward to reading 'Gitanjali', his piece which got him that prize.
Will strike a chord for the familiarity and the nostalgic feeling. But some of the stories were very somber.Girish karnad statement suddenly flashed-"He is the greatest poet but he is not the same in plays/short stories ".May be some essence were lost in translation.
Enjoyable readingthe original text written by the well known poet Rabindranath Tagore had been translated into simple English, apparently for the school students learning English. Nevertheless the simple language makes the reading more enjoyable.
Fluid, engaging, calm, simple and real! His stories are so human in nature that one feels like witnessing a real life being spent right before her eyes.
Very interesting and full of food for thoughts
Very relatable books especially if you are from rural Indian background. Really heart-touching stories. Not all stories have happy endings.
the best short stories ever written... brushes with accuracy all emotions of humankind
Tagore invokes emotion like no one else.
