https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/458275.The_Pilgrim_Hawk
Fortunately enough, Alexandra has another guest staying with her named Alwyn Tower (that's a man, not an office complex) to do the play-by-play on all the character psychology, so if the blinking, glow-in-the-dark symbolism of the book escapes your notice, he's the giant, pointing finger that says, 'Hey. Will you look at that?' Even though Tower is mostly cold and supercilious, I'll admit that he can turn a nice phrase here and there—which makes many of his trite insights more digestible than they really have any right to be.The entirety of this very brief novel takes place during this visit and consists (in large part) of Mrs. Cullen's Wild Kingdom-like reportage on the habits of the hawk and the ins and outs of falconry, which—after a brief flirtation with political radicalism—is her latest hobby.
The idea of giving up and accepting "captivity" combined with the phrase "because it's a better life" sends shivers down my spine.-Larry Cullen despises the falcon not only because she is the main object of his wife's attention and affection, but it also becomes clear that Lucy's presence literally prevents him from making direct physical contact with his wife.
Aside perhaps from wanting to avoid being confused with a certain, celebrated Dashiell Hammett novel, why a "Pilgrim Hawk" and not "Pilgrim Falcon?" By opting for a generalized term for his title, Wescott neutralizes gender particularity, opening up even more possibilities for interpretation.
This could be an afternoon read, this story of an afternoon in Chancellet, told in the early 40's, but set in "May of 1928 or 1929."Chancellet must be a painful place in the forties, although one of the least changed in France, I suppose, because it is unimportant.That is a remarkable, sublime sentence, occurring early in this book.
Unless, of course, you count the falcon, Lucy, perched on Mrs. Cullen's arm.What happens that afternoon, in May of 1928 or 1929, in this unimportant place, is seemingly sui generis.
Right before our narrator is told, "You're no novelist."I hope you'll stay for the squab.
O Falcão Peregrino é um romance que aborda os sentimentos e as relações entre as pessoas; por vezes (ou sempre) mais extenuantes e complexos do que domesticar uma fera selvagem.
A acção decorre - nos anos 20, numa casa de campo em França - durante uma tarde, em que os Cullen - um casal de irlandeses ricos - visitam a sua amiga Alex.
Tan importante es lo que se dice como lo que se calla y tan o más interesantes que las acciones de los personajes protagonistas del suceso son las reflexiones y conclusiones del que las cuenta y lo que de él nos dicen ambas.
Wescott tiene la gran inteligencia y habilidad para conducirnos con maestría socrática hacia esa verdad que creeremos haber descubierto por nosotros mismos, y que el autor no revela del todo hasta casi la última frase –y que yo me abstendré muy mucho de descubrir aquí-, añadiendo al gran placer de su lectura el de la satisfacción por una vanidad reforzada.
One of the bird’s functions is to increase the tension: the conversation goes round and round, everyone affable enough, but in the presence of a wild creature, it can only be a matter of time before someone lets go.As Cunningham writes, “Almost every page contains some small wonder of phrase or insight, some instance of the world keenly observed and reinvented.” For me, The Pilgrim Hawk is about marriage, and Tower’s view is bleak.
Unrequited passion; romance put asunder by circumstances or mistakes; sexuality pretending to be love—all that is a matter of little consequence…compared with the long course of true love, especially marriage.
A very strange socially elegant short novel that deals with a hawk that sort of observes the world or at the very least this particular world. It sort of reminds me of going to a dinner party and not really knowing anyone - yet you stay too long. The novel had that affect on me, yet I am going to re-read it shortly. Why? My first reading some years ago made me think 'this is really good, why?' So there is an essence of a mystery of it all that pleases my sense of aesthetic.
Life is almost all perch, observes the author, there is no nest. No one is with you. So there you sit, he continues, and dream and doze to save trouble. The metaphor here is a house pet -- a hawk named Lucy. I am not persuaded.
If I felt free to make new bookshelves all the time (and not afraid of being overwhelmed by a superfluity of them) I would make one just for this book called Love and Trouble.
It is a way of starting the book off-balance, pushing a reader away and making them hold on just a little tighter to keep footing.
In the twenties it was not unusual to meet foreigners in some country as foreign to them as to you, your peregrination just crossing theirs; and you did your best to know them in an afternoon or so; and perhaps you called that little lightning knowledge, friendship.
Brief, elegant, edgy, and profound, I found myself enraptured by this little gem. I was quickly taken in by the narrator's voice, and while not much happens, there is an incredible tension in all this not-happening. A masterpiece of restrained narration.
A concisely written novel that takes place during an afternoon.
Most of the interplay between the characters involves Lucy the Pilgrim Hawk.I have to say that the book/novella isn't what I quite expected but that does often happen with the New York Classic books I've read to date.
It's an unusual story.
I couldn't say with any conviction that I could empathise with the characters as I felt they came across as arrogant and egotistical at times.
Still it was an unusual novel and I could not foresee the ending.
As a Minnesotan, I was startled to learn that Glenway Wescott is from my neighboring state of Wisconsin; so, too, is his narrator, who seems to have stayed in Europe since serving in World War I.
Startled, because "The Pilgrim Hawk: A Love Story" (1940) is very European in structure and sentiment.
They have guests: a rich Irish couple driving through Europe in their Daimler out of economy because even a luxury road trip is cheaper than maintaining their estate.The pilgrim hawk, named Lucy, is the focus of the narrator's fascination, and he offers enchanting descriptions of the bird's movements as she perches the Irish woman's gloved hand, pulsing with energy.
Sentences like "We could hear their hunting horns which sounded like a picnic of boy sopranos, lost" had me thinking five stars right away.
The entire novella didn't live up to that level, but how often do you see the phrase "avian haberdashers"?
As a narrator, Alwyn Tower reminded me of Nick Carraway, at the center of all the action yet hovering above it more as observer than participant.Cover art by Nam June Paik (32 cars for the 20th century: play Mozart's Requiem quietly)
I didn't really like the Cullens coming back.
Why did they have to come back?
It had been a tight little play, and then everything was hysterical and silly."We could hear their hunting horns which sounded like a picnic of boy sopranos, lost.""How rare pulchritude is among the Irish, I said to myself;" Er....."He was a large man, not really fat but with bulk and softness irregularly here and there, not so much in the middle as up and down his back, all around his head, in his hands.""A little narrow frown, an efficient survey, only to discover if there was anything in it for her personally; and there was not.""His wife gave him that look of hers which was the opposite of applause;"
Their enthusiasm about themselves and all that exactly appertained to them, always overflowing, coolly playing and bubbling over in mild agitation like a fountain, held your attention and mirrored itself in your mind; little by little you began to bubble with it. Maybe because this comes close to my favorite kind of writing, maybe because it is austere, restrained, beautiful even-- I have to hold it to a standard where it fails. What author Wescott is after here is a distillation of the atmosp
What author Wescott is after here is a distillation of the atmosphere of human interaction, a series of moments slashed out of the otherwise banal experience we have of life, a drama of the mundane...
The word 'brittle' comes to mind in describing how Wescott's characters are constructed; the unresolved tension in every figure on the stage is very well done.
Wescott comes within inches of the bullseye with his Jamesian domestic tonalities, sets his 'jolt' in flight at just the right angle, and yet, misses the target.
Kind of hard to be so close and so far off.
Is it an accident that The Pilgrim Hawk's characters, who are living in a Europe that is about to be completely shaken-up and to have all its borders re-drawn, are always using national stereotypes to try to make sense of the people they meet: "How rare pulchritude is among the Irish," "His British complexion suggested eating and drinking rather than hunting and shooting," "Although of common Germanic origin he was very strict about manners," and so on?The plot concerns two unmarried people, a man and a woman, who are visited one afternoon by a married couple.
As even the introduction points out, making a hawk into a symbol isn't much of a novelty, nor is the Anglos-abroad (Wescott does make me want to read Henry James, which is a mark in his favor), nor is the ever so slightly farcical country-house plot.
So, to justify my own enjoyment of this, I'm forced to interpret the book thusly: the hawk is not, in fact, a symbol for anything, and the point of the novel is the narrator's failure to discover anything worthy to be symbolized by the 'symbol'.
In short, this is a short novel about the writer's failure to produce a work adequate to its subject--while, at the same time, it's a perfect little gem of a book.
Certainly among the better literary works featuring a family named "Cullen." This is a decent, wise, and quotable short novel, but by the praise that I've read from it I expected something more revelatory, or more subtly potent, or more importantly memorable. It is worthy of praise but in a much restrained way than that which pulled me into reading it.
Wonderful little book - so good I think I'll read the editors introduction -- !
... the acquaintances of her girlhood had been outdoor people like these two, self-centered but without any introspection, strenuous but emotionally idle. It was a type of humanity that she no longer quite respected or trusted, but evidently still enjoyed.  ↑ #VANLIFE AMIRITE ↑  That was written in 1940, and like everything else in The Pilgrim Hawk it is dead on the money. Until I encountered those two sentences it had never even occurred to me that our present-day fetish for frivolous bullshit
That was written in 1940, and like everything else in The Pilgrim Hawk it is dead on the money.
In articulating the noxious, baffling mix of envy and affinity and contempt that I feel for #vanlifers, Wescott has conceivably spared me an ulcer.Seriously, though: how is this book not better known?
Susan Sontag praises The Pilgrim Hawk for “its sleek, subtle vocabulary, the density of its attention to character, its fastidious pessimism, and the clipped worldliness of its point of view.” I can’t improve on that endorsement, obviously, so, uh ...
Het echtpaar Cullen komt op bezoek. Blijft (erg) lang. En mevrouw heeft een valk meegebracht.
I love this novella and you should read it.Lately I’ve been studying the “literary impressionism” of the great early Moderns—Henry James, Joseph Conrad, Ford Madox Ford—and Pilgrim Hawk, first published in 1940, seems to me a small, late impressionist masterpiece much in the mold of The Good Soldier.
As his record of apprehension and misapprehension builds, not only does the intricacy of the cast and their affair deepen, but an impression of the narrator himself emerges, and the story he relates, or the manner in which he relates it, is subtly revealed as, at least in part, a sort of projection of the narrator’s own suppressed and terrible anxieties.
Really, really, weirdly written and kind of BAD, in an Elizabeth Gaskellish way—all exposition with an overarching metaphor about as subtly wielded as a tire iron. But all the more fascinating, for it. Also a very curiously proleptic 1928 take on alcoholism (actually uses that word, which must have been a neologism at the time) and codependency. I can't quite shake this story. Will post some passages from it tomorrow—I think it's kind of amazing, actually.
A short (~100-page) novella that approaches perfection. It will linger in your mind long after you finish it.
Pretty weird-I wish the hawk had flown away!!
They are in turn visited by Alex's Irish/British friends the Cullens who also bring along Mrs. Cullen's hawk, Lucy, and their chauffer, Ricketts(!).
The hawk is completely wild, only kept at Mrs. Cullen's side by a hood, a leash, and the promise of food.
Still, she is obsessed with it, makes it central to her life, and loves it for its complete indifference to human artifice.
Mrs. Cullen makes it clear that if the bird were released from its captivity, it would live a harsh life of hunger and eventually die of starvation as its eyesight, strength, or quickness failed.
Wisconsin-born French resident Glenway Wescott (1901-87) wrote only four novels, with "The Pilgrim Hawk" (1940) the best known.
"The Pilgrim Hawk" reads like a more grounded, American version of Evelyn Waugh's autumnal "Brideshead Revisited" voice: wistful, elegant, world-weary, lucid and observant.
He observes that expatriate life is highly insular, with unpredictable intimacies (or least social interest) forming between incompatible outsiders, an insight that quickly comes to life as a social experiment.
It’s all mediated through Tower’s voice in an elegant, propulsive, highly rhetorical style, and this one of the rare cases where strong first-person omniscience is actually welcome: Tower is urbane, introspective, and brilliantly incisive.
In Wisconsin Writers and Writing August Derleth said that Wescott's The Pilgrim Hawk 'had in it nothing at all of the warmth of his Wisconsin books; in fact, the book was repellent.
Derleth's dislike of the book comes after high praise of Wescott's previous work -- especially The Grandmothers -- none of which I've read.
I suspect Derleth was taken very much by surprise at the differences he found between Wescott's earlier work and this book.
Nevertheless there's a great deal going on in The Pilgrim Hawk and I think it's a story that will bear re-reading, more than once, to attempt to get a hold on it.
An intense little gem hand grenade of a novella in which nothing and everything happens in the course of an afternoon and the only real 2 "events" of the afternoon happen either hidden from most characters or from the reader.
Brilliant even in the parts where it's somehow touchingly clumsy, like Wescott was breathless and fumbling with excitement to cram all this brilliance in.
And yet, the theatrical minimalism of the story, the way Wescott captures characters with a gait or a line, is remarkable and memorable and really worth the fuss of Sontag's essay, "Where the Stress Falls," which is how I suppose I lot of us discover this, finally, gem.
More novella than novel, I thought I would finish The Pilgrim Hawk in no time, but I found myself dragging throught it.
But I didn't particularly feel connected to the characters.
Some seemed more like shadows than actual people and thought that the same story could have been told with two or three characters rather than the eight in the book.
Because of that, I didn't feel the emotion I could have during the drama of the book's end.
A worthwhile read, though, as is any author with a particularly distinguishing style.
