https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6114302-the-black-gang
Read aloud to the same audience as the first one, a year and a half later. :D It was grand.
More Bulldog Drummond.
He could kill Zaboleff or seek information from him, but he would rather treat Johnny Foreigner to a good kick in the pants.At the end of the book Drummond agrees to dismantle the gang when the game is up, but he considers doing so earlier because his feeble enemies are no longer affording him any fun.
What makes the difference is the presence of another master player, Carl Peterson, which increases the challenge for Drummond.Peterson is a ruthless operator who seeks to undermine British labour to help his foreign business friends.
His name was kept secret but it became clear to the inner circle that he was Hugh 'Bulldog' Drummond.Drummond visits The Ritz and notices a couple of characters who he feels that he knows, one of them seemingly a vicar.
And his lady companion is another former opponent, Irma.A game of cat and mouse follows, with neither revealing what they know of the other.
However, somehow Peterson and Irma manage to escape and live to renew their battle with Bulldog Drummond another day.
What ho! Those dastardly foreigners want to turn jolly old England into a commie state and that bounder Carl Peterson has reared his ugly head again, good job those mysterious fellows "the black gang" seem to have everything in hand, especially that big chappy their leader, good old Drummond!Drummond here has found his calling in life and has got things more organised than in the first book, where he blundered about more, but he is still very much the same character and once again the story provides as many laughs as thrills.
If you want a good crime/fiction, adventure/story without gratuitous sex, Bulldog Drummond is for you. I like it! He's a 'clean' James Bond. Lots of humor and funny situations, but actual nail-biting adventure as well. Throw back to the days before animation when actors did their own stunts--that's what this series is like. Bulldog Drummond is a bored ex-soldier who still wants to aid King and Country, so he goes undercover as a rogue in The Black Gang. It's a great ride!
I am enjoying this book."No—I am not. I am not the police, you wretched thing: I am the leader of the Black Gang."This was a good story although modern readers should be aware that it contains some antisemitic passages.
If you've ever wondered what it would be like of P.G. Wodehouse wrote thrillers, Sapper provides the answer.
His protagonist, Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond is very similar to Bertie Wooster, if Bertie had fought in World War I and come back to England as an anti-foreigner fascist.
In this book, Bulldog forms the titular Black Gang, a quasi-terrorist group whose mission is to root out Communist infiltration of England.
The plot is fun and fast-moving, and Bulldog carries out his adventures with such a "what ho old man.
Deuced nuisance this, eh?" cheeriness that almost, almost makes you forgive the character's nasty anti-semitism.
Man, this is a mixed review.
Published in 1922, the second in the Bulldog Drummond stories sees Drummond again trying to foil the plans of master criminal Carl Peterson. The story involves attempts to attempts to induce unrest in Great Britain with the help of Bolshevik revolutionaries and the like. It all pretty far fetched, but when you consider the political turmoil in many European countries at that time you can perhaps see the authors inspiration.
This is a good book and I'm sure it's part of a very good series. It's full of action, intrigue, well developed characters you bond with quickly. Who could ask for more? Huh Drummond is a very likeable character who gets into scrapes and uses his wits to get out of them.
Great book.This book caught me by surprise. It was so good. Action and well thought out storyline. Just a fun read.
A wild book, filled to the brim with action sequences, plot twists, and cliches.
I wouldn't recommend the Bulldog Drummond books to anyone (they are a very particular taste) but I absolutely love them. Epic, read of a very old book. Better than the very good first in my opinion.
He got more than he bargained for, coming up against the nefarious Carl Petersen, a master of disguise, and the beautiful but deadly Irma.
Petersen is involved in a vast Bolshevik conspiracy although his own motives have more to do with power than political principles.
The conspiracy he uncovers seems so ingenious that he could almost believe that Carl Petersen himself is behind it.
The introduction to Wordsworth’s paperback omnibus collection of the four Bulldog Drummond novels dealing with the fiendish Carl Petersen makes grovelling apologies for the political incorrectness of these stories.
Be that as it may, the Bulldog Drummond novels are still highly entertaining.
The first one was so silly and I wasn't sure I've ever read another one, but then we saw some Bulldog Drummond movies and I decided to give the books a second chance.
Like in the first book, Drummond almost gets killed, multiple times, but he escapes and captures the bad guy.
So I'm guessing this might be the schtick through the rest of Bulldog Drummond, that the master criminal keeps showing up, in different guises, and that he keeps escaping to live again.
In the movies, the schtick is that something comes up to prevent Bulldog Drummond from getting married to his betrothed, Phyllis.
It pains me to give it 2 stars as I'm fond of Sapper but there's a great deal too much anti-Semitism and flogging with rhinocerous hide whips in this one. I'm not inclined to make an issue of racism in pulp fiction as it's there less often than most people think it is but in this case it's combined with a streak of brutality that I find it hard to overlook.
This is the first Bulldog Drummond story I've read, although the second in the series.
I didn't know much about the book before I started reading so was pleasantly surprised by the story.
The best I can describe it as is a watered-down P.G. Wodehouse writing an action packed adventure story.
I wouldn't recommend everyone to run out to read it, but I noticed my library has the first and third Bulldog Drummond stories so I might pick them up at some point.
It's of its time in this way, but I know some people would be uncomfortable reading it today.

Who would have thought that there was a precursor to 007? Bulldog Drummond is a likable character, there is the same slightly unbelievable aspect of the stories that 007 has in that everything is just a little TOO over the top, including the escapades and the escapes.
read some time in 1994
Second in the Bulldog Drummand series.
As charming as its predecessor but too little Mrs. Bulldog. Dialogue brilliant as the first--maybe better. Loved it.
