https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/284996.The_Complete_Stories
They are often nice people who are nice to everyone (within reasonable limits, of course) and think that the world would be a nicer place to live if only everyone were as nice as they are (“Good Country People”, “Everything that Rises Must Converge”).
Then there are the educated or artistic types who feel confined or bored by the life they lead, can't wait to escape, and sneer at all the inferior mortals around them (“Good Country People”, “The Enduring Chill”).
Flannery O'Connor's literary world is beyond bleak, to the point where if one of her characters smiles, you notice with a breath of relief, ahhhh, a tiny respite from the hard lives and harder hearts on display here.
which was meant to be part of a future novel - neither worked for me as short stories.However, there is so much gold here, it is easy to let go of what doesn't impress and stay with the sparkling jewels such as:The Geranium - an old Southern man's inability to adjust to life in NYC (later re-written as Judgment Day, her last story)The Barber - a fascinating image of "casting pearls to swine", showing the insecure need to change people's minds to match one's own, and the ineffectuality of intellectual argumentsA Good Man is Hard to Find - her most famous story, when a family trip is savaged while making a stop to visit an old plantation property.
"Listen here," he hissed, "I don't care if he's good or not. He ain't right! A Stroke of Good Fortune. The Life You Save May Be Your Own. The River. The Displaced Person. A View of the Woods. The Lame Shall Enter First. Two of these are contained within Everything That Rises Must Converge. A Good Man is Hard to Find and Other Stories has the other four. Neither one would have done as much good in my estimation as the works in toto. Key word my.Flannery O'Connor was an author whose name seeped i
A Good Man is Hard to Find and Other Stories has the other four.
One class assigned me the solo 'A Good Man is Hard to Find' and left me baffled.
Unfortunately for O'Connor, I read her long after my phase of existential grasping had faded to musing embers and the chance of conversion was ripe for the rotting.
Fortunately, I am all too well acquainted with the tightwire between "I am a good person," and "I see me when I'm sleeping, .
I know when I'm awake," to the point of nauseated pain, enough to see what she seeks to show in other things beyond the scope of religion and belief.
The dangerous boys love the country so much that they refuse to leave without taking some of it with them.The Displaced Person in which a Polish refugee and his family are given the chance to start a new life in America working on a farm, but quietly plague the good country people with their work ethic, disquiet and alien ways.Greenleaf in which a proud farm widow, with two grown sons averse to manual labor, is bedeviled by the appearance of a stray bull on her property, a beast she determines belongs to the sons of her belligerent farm hand, Mr. Greenleaf.Everything That Rises Must Converge in which a progressive minded man disgusted by bigoted ways of his mother agrees to accompany her on an errand, using a desegregated night bus in an attempt to prove a point to the old bat.
Except for one here or there in anthologies, this is my first time reading her short stories and I can't believe it took me this long to get to her.
April 29, 2009*April 3, 2016Now I can't believe it took me seven years to get back to this volume, except for recognizing that O'Connor's unflinching worldview isn't always a lure and, of course, the main excuse of other books clamoring for attention.
I find it appropriate, even though it was unintentional, that both times I read it around Easter.
This time I decided to read one per night of the last 16 stories until I finished.
Strange may it seem but I’ve never read anything about Flannery O'Connor and I didn’t know what I should expect so the book was like a lightning strike.“She saw the streak as a vast swinging bridge extending upward from the earth through a field of living fire.
And bringing up the end of the procession was a tribe of people whom she recognized at once as those who, like herself and Claud, had always had a little of everything and the God-given wit to use it right.”The world is split in two parts…There are those who try to use the others and there are those who are just being used… “A body and a spirit,” he repeated.
A+A Temple of the Holy Ghost refers to the definition of the person given in 1 Corinthians 6:19: “Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God?” The unnamed child in O’Connor’s story relishes this understanding of herself and experiences an opportunity to apply it to one of the least in the Kingdom.
AOld Man Fortune lives with his daughter, son-in-law, Pitts, and their children but his real joys are his one granddaughter, Mary Fortune and using her to get back at her parents especially her father.
Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?I can't imagine what it would have been like to live inside Mary Flannery O'Connor's head, obviously.
Those who have not changed a thing, those who live and work in the culture they have always known, they are the ones who can move, who have some get.Religion in Flannery O'Connor's world is not a comfort that solaces the distressed, but rather a challenge to the weak, a force that dismays, a rage that cannot be quiet.
Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?By the way, please note: 5 stars!!
La vita che salviNon si può fuggire alla capacità dei racconti della O'Connor di cambiarti in profondità nel corso di pochi minuti, dentro a quel labirinto eterno e ineffabile di significati implacabili e di fatti primordiali, affilati come lame di pugnali, letali come il veleno di un serpente.
Con i suoi archetipi informali, nei luoghi capitali e esemplari dove ambienta le storie, Flannery O'Connor ci comunica che esiste un'attrazione verso il male, verso la disgrazia e il delitto, così come sono possibili la fede, il perdono, la trascendenza; qualcosa di superiore che, forse umano forse no, muove le gesta dei personaggi e la penna della scrittrice.
This is one of O'Connor's first short stories, originally published in 1948, and used again in her acclaimed collection "The Complete Stories", published in 1971.
Flannery O'Connor is not afraid of humor, evidenced by one of the only surviving recordings of her, reading A Good Man is Hard to Find.
A few memorable moments from some of my favorite stories:"'A good man is hard to find,' Red Sammy said.
O'Connor can swear in very creative ways!"I don't take no crap off no wool-hat red-neck son-of-a-bitch peckerwood old bastard like you." - from Judgement DayThat and other parts are great fun to read out loud, as Flannery O'Connor knows the characters she is writing about and how they talk.
You know the cliché saying, "the moral of the story is..." Flannery O'Connor's stories all seem illustrative of this saying--in a good way.
I wouldn't have understood it had I not visited the Flannery O'Connor Home and learned about her story.
O'Connor was also strong-minded at a young age, I learned (like some of her younger characters, i.e. Mary Fortune).
Things that really stand out in this collection: 1) the metaphorical language (in awe), 2) the astounding dialogue (and use of dialect) 3) the way she makes you see a character's inner mind better than most writers can, 4) the mystery within each story (you end up being skeptical of each character and waiting to see what preposterousness will occur at the end).

The first six stories in this volume were submitted as her thesis for her degree under the title 'The Geranium: A Collection of Short Stories.' There are thirty-one stories included here, twelve of which were appearing for the first time in book form, and this collection was published posthumously, winning the National Book Award for Fiction in 1972.O'Connor writes in the Southern Gothic style with great insight into human frailties and prejudices.Quite often the main character in a story is an elderly farm woman trying to get the help she needs to run the farm.
I've written and thrown out three drafts on why Flannery O'Connor is Great. I won't bother with it again, not for a while.She covers the Grotesque and Sin of Southern life, for some thirty-odd stories. Sin and Grace in a palatable and altering way. Excellent characterization, using the smallest of details and conversations to broaden personality. Like all good short story collections, not to be consumed in one sitting.
Flannery O’connor is an acquired taste. Her tales may not tell a linear story in the commonly accepted sense but her insightful portrayals of quirky characters are unforgettable. 4 1/5 stars.
That stuff would have been hard enough to deal with in itself, but if you're also deeply religious, as O'Connor was, with the kind of Catholicism that tells you all suffering happens for a reason- well, then you can see how a person could start seeing her problems in truly Biblical terms.
Her weaker stories can seem mean- she seems to set up various grotesque Southern caricatures only to mow them down- and this happens over and over in such exquisite variation that you start to think it's a personal fetish with her- a desire to cut up and mutilate a world she couldn't stand.And as with most people who can't stand where they're from, O'Connor's contempt extends to herself.

Così nell’introduzione al libro recita Marisa Caramella, che continua affermando : “la difficoltà ad affrontare uno dopo l’altro i racconti della O’Connor non è dovuta alla complessità del suo modo di scrivere – complessità solo apparente, dovuta alla ricchezza di metafore e simboli che l’autrice usa per rappresentare con più efficacia una realtà immediata e brutale - ma alla resistenza che questa immediatezza e questa brutalità provocano in chi è viziato da letture consolatorie, da scrittori indulgenti.”Il disagio che si prova inizialmente, difatti, sta proprio nella difficoltà a rispecchiarsi in un’umanità così mostruosa e bizzarra, anche se non mancano le occasioni dove è inevitabile empatizzare con il destino di alcuni personaggi, come quello di Enoch Emery, che comparirà più volte nei racconti e che poi finirà per essere uno dei protagonisti del primo romanzo della scrittrice, La saggezza nel sangue.
Of course, some stories a true gems ("A Good man is Hard to Find", "The River"), but after making my way through about a third of the stories, the same themes started reappearing with the same type of deffiecent characters and the same kinds of endings.That is not to say they aren't enjoyable.
But when taken together, as a collection must be, O'Connor's stories end up repeating themselves to the point that you don't need to read all of them.
And here's a tip for other students: If you need to find what a certain action/object/animal/character symbolizes, you can never go wrong with relating it to Jesus somehow.
Come quando l'aria è così tersa da permettere, solo che ci si sollevi un poco, uno sguardo lontano, che abbraccia tutto e con luce vivida e naturale svela i dettagli più nascosti, così è la scrittura di Flannery O'Connor.
O’Connor won the National Book Award posthumously in 1971 for this compilation of thirty-one of her short stories.
Interestingly very few of her stories depicted young women or girls.
Possibly her most famous short story.
A racist old white man in an apartment complex has confusing thoughts about his neighbors.
My favorite story.
My second favorite story.
Francis has promised to bury his uncle when the time comes.
Very dark story.
What will Francis do when the time comes?
Every story is about racists or other ignorant people, So I didn’t find the mood to be uplifting in any of the stories.

Every one of these stories leaves its main character in a complete sense of doom, but there's more to it than that.
There's a spiritual revelation or rebirth in the midst the character's painful stupor.
What I love about these endings is that as painful as that character's state of mind is at the end, they're also seeing things more clearly and truthfully than they ever have in their life--and it's undeniably beautiful, no matter how painful the situation happens to be.
And boy does she know how to make a situation as painful and grotesque as it can be.Her most well-known short story probably is A Good Man is Hard to Find, which is excellent.
Nei racconti di Flannery O'Connor il vero protagonista è il mistero, l'inspiegabile che si compie nelle diverse manifestazioni della grazia e nelle azioni che i protagonisti decidono di intraprendere o, meglio, nel modo in cui gli stessi scelgono di gestire la nuova consapevolezza in relazione al libero arbitrio. Continua su: http://www.scratchbook.net/2015/09/ra...
Having lived with this collection for almost a year, and having read each story as slowly as possible, in coming to the end I feel I'm now grieving for all that O'Connor never wrote. As Thomas Merton said about Flannery in 1965: "A relentlessly perfect writer, full of tragedy and irony."
En 1958 escribió al respecto: «Todos mis cuentos tratan acerca de la acción de la gracia sobre un personaje que no está muy dispuesto a soportarla, pero lo que la mayoría de la gente piensa de esos cuentos es que son duros, inútiles, brutales, etc...» Es por ello que hace falta poner mucha atención al sentido último de sus historias para desentrañar el verdadero mensaje, ya que, en una lectura superficial, podría parecer que ella misma toma una posición contraria a la religiosa, cuando en realidad está haciendo lo opuesto (aunque, considerando su posición acerca del protestantismo y la cantidad de alusiones a él podría asegurarse también lo contrario y no ir en contra de su intención original.
That's how I felt after reading a collection of the author's short stories.With a few adjustments for technology and history, the characters depicted in story after story are mostly ordinary, modern Americans.
I don't find the characters delightful or amusing, as some suggest; the tone of the stories feels as if the author is laughing at me rather than with me.
Nor do the stories read as "Gothic" to me; instead, they seem postmodern, a genre whose nihilistic pointlessness leaves me cold.
I've liked Gone With the Wind, Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, and even The Sound and the Fury, so it isn't the setting or some narrative technique that grates.
July 2009Grim and often occasionally horrifying stories of the South and some of the people who occupy its darkest parts. Slightly repetitive, especially when read too close together--I settled for one story per day, over the course of a month, so it's probably best to take these one at a time. "A Good Man Is Hard to Find" and "Revelation" were especially powerful.
Mi risulta davvero difficile dire la mia perché questo mese di lettura mi ha portato anni luce lontana dalla mia zona comfort.
