https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/575521.Please_Try_to_Remember_the_First_of_Octember_
When I was a kid, every single Christmas and birthday I would ask for a pet lamb. My parents would say, "We'll see." They might as well have said, "Just wait til the first of Octember."I never got that lamb, though these days I think I'd rather have a yellow convertible.Just wait til Octember rolls around!
The usual combination of Dr Seuss's rhyme, rhythm and repetition with zany accompanying artwork and off-the-wall humour, all of which create hilarious stories.This one concentrates on the month of Octember when 'Everyone wants a green kangaroo ...
or maybe two', a 'new skateboard tv' or wishes to 'swing through the air on a flying trapeze'.
And many other things are scheduled for the first of Octember, including a shower of money that 'doesn't come down much in March or November, or even September ...
so the maxim is 'Remember the first of Octember' when 'Everything's Yours'.As comedian Tommy Trinder once used to say, 'You lucky people'!
Bright colours used throughout the book give life and light and reveal energy (Moebius, W) possibly suggest a faster moving story.The front page depicts the boy holding a board labelled Octember standing on the recto page facing verso looking clearly at the twelve colourful, framed months of the year dotted around on both pages.
Thou this book is about ventures of Octember, this page can help a child to learn or recall 12 months of the year.
I would suggest KS1 read this book because children of this age are imaginative, outlandish and familiar with the months of the year.
Another one of my little treasures I found on my book shelf from when I was younger. This little gem has a lovely flow to it, lots of rhyming words - so in all a very enjoyable read. I remember reading this book to my eldest daughter and marvelling at the colourful and outrageous things you could get of the first of Octember.
Poetry - A fun book for rhyming! It gives you a chance to read with a fun beat, and also look for words that go together.
This adorable little known Dr. Seuss book is so much fun! What a great way to work out the 'gimmies'.
This was one of my favorite books as a kid.
On the First of Octember, anything and everything can happen!Yet another book from my childhood revisited as I reorganize my bookshelves. This one also had a nice little bonus: a piece of lined writing paper with my dad's name on it in what looks a lot like my handwriting. Even now, the 'e' gives it away. That, or my sister and I started out with very similar writing styles due to parental influence. Still, nice little memento.
What is the wildest, craziest thing you've ever wanted? Money falling from the sky? A truck load filled with goodies? All the time in the world? Well if you just wait until the First of Octember you can have it!A great rhyme filled book about all the silly things we wish for. Filled with great illustrations and imaginative inventions. If only there really was a First of Octember.
This was kind of a disappointing Dr. Suess book; Although still fun it just wasn't like all the others. Octember is to close to October so children are getting the two confused. And the various things that 'can be done come Octember 1st' confuses them too.
At least the artist attempted to match the style of Seuss’ artwork when he was asked to illustrate this book, but I still wasn’t overly impressed. It just doesn’t feel like true Seuss if it’s not all Seuss!
a family favorite from my childhood
Classic Seuss
Super cute!!
my 5 year old giggled and corrected me every time I said Octember.
I loved this book as a kid and have thoroughly enjoyed reading it to my kids. It is positive and silly and teaches not overtly about desires and consumption.
Cause they want us to have EVERY SINGLE THING on the list and they'll give it to us if we wait for this day.
The "thought" of that ALONE excites me because one of my favorite things ever is getting stuff in the mail from my wish lists on Amazon.
Be sure you're in town.
Not only do we get material things in bags and boxes but there's gonna be money falling from the sky all day long.
I would have my students tell me what they'd do on Octember 1st and what their wish list would be.
I know I'm thinking about my list.
Great book
Dr. Seuss uses his pen name Theo Le Sieg for this book.
This allowed him to use a different illustrator Art Cumings (who appears to have given the copyright to Random House publishers - I'm thinking Art Cumings is a pseudonym for an in-house illustrator?).
Anyway I'm not a fan of the illustrations as a whole, the only real highlights are the suess-ian influenced complex machines!
Seuss also moves away from his traditional anapestic tetrameter, to a much simplier (and easier to write) poetic form.I just couldn't get into the rhythm of this book, the illustrations didn't appeal and the story was only so-so.
This is a fun book that not only teaches about the various months of the year, but also about delayed gratification and the anticipation of waiting for a special day, even if that day doesn't really exist. I'll have to remember "The First of Octember" the next time our girls come down with a case of "I want this!"-itis. The sentences are short and rhyme, which makes it a fun read for beginning readers.
I love this book! I felt like the narrator was telling this to his child just like any parent would do to brighten their imagination. Ex: "We'll get you a pony on the first of Octember." Hopefully after reading this children will ACTUALLY believe this is an actual month. I also enjoyed the illustrations; they grasped my attention and made me feel as if I was part of the story. Definitely a good book for children with BIG imaginations.
This is a great book for younger children when beginning to so discuss months of the year. The title plays on the two months of October and and other months that end in "ber." Theook also has rhyming words as it is a Dr. Seuss book, and therefore it can be used when introducing a lesson on rhyming words.
I loved this book. As a child I related to the little boy and his wide eyed curiousity at the cool things falling from the sky. I especially enjoyed when food began falling from the sky. That part made me hungry. This book is one of my all time favorites because it appeals to my childlike wonder concerning Christmas Morning while still being a year long book.
As I was clarifying an album on Facebook of the books I like getting the dates around the time I read them, I noticed I did not have this one, which represent all the Dr. Seuss books I have read. And needed one to represent them as a whole. This one stands out because of Octember, as its a made up month and got me thinking all those years ago. 1977 is a speculative day I finished the book.
Summary: This book is about a fictional month the month of Octember; apparently some pretty amazing thing are supposed to happen the first day of Octember.I thought that this was an interesting kids story but it bothered me because the month of Octember was so similar in name to the month of October that at first I was confused.Picture BookThis book is not controversial.
I loved this book as a child and still do as an adult. It perfectly shows the extraordinarily imaginative and creative mind of Theo LeSieg. After reading this I always wanted to play hock-zoccer and drink doodle delight!
Today, I learned that the books are signed Theo. LeSeig when they have guest illustrators. This book doesn't quite have the same meter and catchy feeling that other Dr. Seuss books have, but it's a cute little story nonetheless!
This is a great Seussian work! Always so clever. Seuss entices the characters (maybe the readers) to go ahead, be greedy. Wish for lots of ridiculous material possessions! Excellent silliness! Emerson loved it.
A Dr. Seuss-like book about a child asking for everything, and being promised it all when Octember comes. Perhaps it's too passive of a way to say no to your child, but the book was thought-provoking as a sort of parody of our materialistic culture.
Read during Pre-K class visit on 6/6/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Pre-K Class Visit on 6/11/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
