https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/532249.1_2_3_to_the_Zoo
Carle builds a train page by page, number by number, with different animals on each car.
I am bemused by the number of reviews here complaining about the lack of text, as if no words makes it incomplete or not challenging for readers.
Besides, as a concept book for numbers, I think this book conveys the meaning more clearly because there is not other text to decode.
I think the hardest part may to separate out the animals to confirm count (I'm looking at you snakes), but Carle even addresses this by making the animals slightly different colors and giving them little faces.
A delightful number book with Eric Carle's classic artwork. My youngest two children are always asking me to read it to them.
It was almost as if this book encouraged a non-reading student to go at their own pace through the book.
I also thoroughly loved how the train was moving "to the right of the page." All animals and illustrations were pointed or facing the right in their train cart.
Another thing I really enjoyed about this book is how at the bottom of the page, there was an illustration of a smaller train which grows longer and longer as more animals in a train cart is added to the story.
The illustrations were catchy and eye-grabbing, which is what an non-reader (kindergartner) is going to love about a book.
I thought this was a vibrantly colored counting book that is great for children.
However, it is also great for a little bit older audience that is just learning numbers and how to count.
Younger (pre-reading) children can enjoy the pictures of the animals riding the train to their new homes at the zoo and the slightly older children can count the animals as a new one gets added each time and follow the train at the bottom as a car gets added each time.
It is perfect for just learning to count by only adding 1 each time and at the end all the animals are shown at the zoo in a vibrant picture.
This is a great counting book for children.
This is an age where things have to be fun, engaging, and intriguing and Eric Carle does a great job at maintaining all of those things in this children's book.
These are all fun animals that a preschooler would be familiar with.
They can walk out and say what animal they are, the sound they make, and count off how many of them there are.
This could be a great way to showcase the new learning!Carle, E.
1, 2, 3 to the zoo : A counting book (1st ed.).
We began today's story time with this book (only the first three pages).
After singing the usual greeting song (The More We Get Together) and segue-to-theme song (Hello Everybody, Let's...)finishing with the phrase "count to three".The first page features a train engine and coal car.
"Who likes trains?" I asked to an enthusiastic crowd.
I turned to the first page where an elephant is pictured on a flat-bed car.
"I thought today we would tell the story about Goldilocks and the Elephant," I began.
Well, how about Goldilocks and the Three Giraffes?" at which point we abandon this book and move on.
• Book title and author/illustratoro 1, 2, 3 To The Zooo Written and Illustrated by Eric Carle • Personal Response to Reviews: 1) Marilyn Courtot (Children’s Literature) Hurry up and get aboard the train. A collection of animals ranging from one very large elephant to five pairs of birds is headed for the zoo. As each number and the corresponding number of animals is introduced, another car is added to the train running along the bottom of the page. Once at their destination, the cars are emptie
The instructor could count with the child, and prompt him or her to 	point to the animals as they say each number.•	Brief Book Summary:o	The story begins by showing a train that is carrying animals to the zoo.
The Evelyn Mauldin review mentioned, “at the bottom of each page, there was an ongoing list of animals that appeared in the previous pages.” I especially think this is helpful for learners because it allows them to use visual prompts as recall strategies.
The visuals are bright and abstract and allow children to be engaged with the story by counting the animals on the page.
On each set of pages is a brightly colored number on the top left for the corresponding number of animals per freight car.
Strengths of this book are that the numbers are clearly placed with the corresponding number of animals.
For example, the number 5 is clearly placed on the set of pages where five brown bears sit in their freight car.
This might throw off the number set of the animals in each freight and the corresponding number on the top left corner.
This title should definitely be used in lesson plans to introduce numbers, colors, and animals to children.
I love Eric Carle's illustrations and this was no exception. It is a simple counting book, but shows the full train with each added car at the bottom of the page, so you watch the train grown longer with each addition. The very last page spread shows all of the animals in the zoo and the train at the bottom has ten empty cars.
The book is very colorful. It exemplifies numbers as pertaining to a train carrying animals to the zoo. This book can help children learn numbers. Children will like it because of the different animals.
Lovely illustrations and clever story (with the trailers filling up along the bottom of the pages) but sometimes we found it hard to count the animals as they were quite close together and overlapping - tricky for little brains!
This wouldn’t be a book I would keep in the classroom if I taught first graders or above. However, I could keep this in the classroom if I taught kindergarteners. I liked how towards the bottom of each page it added on to the train, this allows the reader to review what all they have read.
A train takes animals to the zoo, with an increasing number on each car. It's set apart from other counting books by Carle's fun art and the lack of text, leaving it up to readers to create their own story.
Cute. Great for tiny children who enjoy bright colors, animals, and trains (so pretty much every tiny child I have ever met)
Liked the pictures. An interesting book to read with kids especially with the different animals.
I always love Eric Carle, and this is great for the youngest or non-native speakers.
This book would be good for young people. It helps children learn to count. The illustrations were very detailed.
I love that this isn’t just a numbers book. It is more It is also matching numbers and pictures and counting. Super cute.
What I love best about Eric Carle - wonderful illustrations and a simple story. This would be a fun counting book for storytime.
Great illustrations and makes counting fun.
lily summer reading 2018, board book, animals, counting
I would recommend this book for preschoolers. They can physically count the animals on the page to see how many there are. This is an age where things have to be fun, engaging, and intriguing.
This is an amazing book about counting animals at the zoo. It’s illustrations really draw the eye to them and it is a fun way for kids to learn how to read
Colorful animals on a train on their way to the zoo help the reader with numbers. Wonderful Carle book.
This could work as the basis for a kinder program
Love Eric Carle books! This one is great for learning to count.
This book focuses on teaching children counting with illustrations.
(PUBLISHER: Philomel Books (New York:), PUBLISHED: 1996.)Professional Recommendation #2: Carle, Eric 1, 2, 3 to the Zoo: A Counting Book   20 pp.
A clever wordless counting book, in which ten animals ride in cars of a zoo train, suffers greatly from its conversion to a board book.
On the other hand, the other review is saying that the board book simply becomes confusing for children since the train ends up getting tiny.
This book can teach addition and subtraction if a teacher simply asks if we take the elephant and put it with the hippos how many animals would be have all together?
This book only has numbers in it. I think it would be great to learn number and to ask questions about the animals.
The train continues taking animals to the zoo, gathering up bears, monkeys, birds, and several others, all the while teaching young readers how to count from 1 to 10.)Professional Recommendation/Review #1: (Children's Literature - Marilyn CourtotHurry up and get aboard the train.
Early learners will find the whimsical pictures appealing as they learn the beginning rudiments of numbers and counting.)Response to Two Professional Reviews: (Both reviews note that this book is commonly used in board book form, the size and structure of which can be very helpful for young readers.
