https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204914.The_Seven_Laws_of_Teaching
The Seven Laws of Teaching wonderfully summarizes timeless basic principles of teaching and learning.
At first, the laws seemed simple, but Gregory takes the observable, fundamental elements of the classroom and expounds them in ways that made me consider how I had used those elements in recent experiences teaching and writing curriculum.
Like Gregory expresses in the sixth law, I was reproducing, verifying and applying the knowledge of his laws naturally and effectively.
The Seven Laws of Teaching is a practical reminder of the structure that goes into planning and executing lessons and would be fruitful for any educator to read.
This book is an excellent introduction to teaching and learning for parents, students, and teachers. Gregory makes the entire process of education simple and gives numerous practical tips and techniques throughout. I cannot recommend this book enough for any parent, student, and/or teacher as well as anyone else who is interested in not only in improving educational institutions but in developing a culture of education and becoming a lifelong learner him or herself. This book is one of the most clear, practical, and accurate books I have yet read on the subject.
There is a tendency to love new ideas and assume that ways of doing things in the past were not only different but also wrong.
For example, in Harry Wong's The First Days Of School: How To Be An Effective Teacher he often mentions the ways teachers did things in the past and how harmful they were without actually giving examples of such practices or evidence that they were the prevailing way or the only way.
And yet Gregory's ideas feel very modern and fresh, emphasizing student-driven teaching and facilitating learning rather than transmitting knowledge.
It's also a really enjoyable and helpful book, though perhaps less practical than more modern books.
Not the unabridged version.
This is without doubt the best book a teacher could read for practical knowledge of "how" to teach. I cannot recommend it highly enough to all teachers.John Milton Gregory does a masterful job using simple enough, yet eloquent language to explain the philosophical concepts of the nature of education and the practical outworking of those concepts.In my opinion, all teachers (and even coaches) would do well to read this book and apply the methods discussed.
Gregory's classic is a must-read for preachers, teachers and other public speakers. This book goes into my re-read que for future study.
Own.Series will be forthcoming on my blog.Read in 2006 & 2004.
Perfect book to help me understand my new school’s teaching style, where the students take an active role in their education.
A brief, mostly common sensical, yet clear and convicting manual for teachers. Originally written for a Sunday school setting, Gregory's "laws" apply to anyone trying to teach whatever to whomever. Also, this particular, unabridged edition from Veritas Press is the one to buy/read. I started with a Kindle version that had been brutally cut of some of the ripest fruit. If "abridged" means to shorten without losing the sense, the abridged versions fail miserably. --------------------Reread with the ECS school board in the first half of 2013; an invaluable 
  vade mecum
 for every teacher.
Comenius said, over two hundred years ago, "Most teachers sow plants instead of seeds; instead of proceeding from the simplest principles they introduce the pupil at once into a chaos of books andmiscellaneous studies".As simple as they may seem, the guidelines in this book are filled with wisdom. It was an interesting read.
I've read a fair amount of contemporary "best practices" books in teaching, but this one, written a hundred years ago, pretty much says it all. Surprisingly modern, and proof that much of what we think of as traditional teaching wasn't really that traditional, even back in the day (at least not in the minds of better teachers of the time).
Always re-reading.
Probably the best book I've read on education. Gregory gets right to the point, makes astute observations, and is incredibly practical and helpful. Highly recommended.Rating: 4.5-5 Stars (Excellent).
This little simple book kept my sane and focused at school Fall quarter with all this progressive education classes that were so confusing! He lays out principles not methods so a wonderful foundation to start building on!!
Good read!It was practical and informative book. I believe it can help any teacher in crossing the boundaries from a good teacher to a great teacher.
This is not uniformly good, but there are golden nuggets interspersed throughout.
Not always the easiest or most exciting read, but worth chewing on for the meat.
I loved reading from the perspective of an educator from 1848. Practically every new educational jargon is manifested in these 7 laws of teaching. A must read for every educator.
Absolutely fantastic. Makes me feel guilty in all the right ways every time I read it.
If you teach in any capacity in the Lord's work you really need to read this book!!"Most Excellent"!!!!!
I know that I say that a lot, but this is a fantastic book.
John Milton Gregory originally published this work in 1884 and it has stayed in print ever since.
This is not a book about teaching techniques but about the philosophy of teaching and learning.
Very easy to read, digest & apply.
No matter the age of the students and the venue of the instruction this book will help you to be a better teacher.
I highly recommend it to everyone who teaches.
Especially without the Biblical undercurrent (making the periodic references to Sunday School teachers seem ludicrously out of place), the work as a whole feels like an old hat relic of Victorian times: as it stands, even with the modicum of timeless truths to which Gregory appeals, it gives the reader the sensation we are being asked to revive the scholastic era of chalk-filled lungs, willow-switched knuckles, and belt-strapped primers.
Even with the modicum of timeless truths and useful ideas in this book, it's tough not to feel a kind of hubris ("Gregory had it so easy back in the day" sort of thing).Still, as I said, Gregory does present some important ideas, and the Laws are for the most part worth hearkening to, especially if you are a new teacher.
While this is a very short read (i read it in one sitting), it is a very good one. John packs a wealth of information in this short amount of pages. He succeeds in his goal of giving teachers a coherent structure of the mot effective and natural way of teaching. I would recommend this book to anybody that does not yet have experience in teaching.
If we have succeeded in our purpose, our readers have seen: First, the true teacher, equipped with the knowledge he wishes to communicate; Second, the pupil, with attention fixed and interest aroused eager to pursue his studies; Third, the true medium of communication between the two -- a language clear, simple, and easily understood by both; Fourth, the true lesson, the knowledge or experience to be communicated.
The study of these laws may not make of every reader a perfect teacher; but the laws themselves, when fully observed in use, will produce their effects with the same certainty that chemical laws generate the compounds of chemical elements, or that the laws of life produce the growth of the body."
Gregory takes the obvious truths of teaching and explains them, and breaks them down into understandable precepts.
I began co-teaching a class at my church and felt I needed help knowing how to teach.
He suggested a short little book called The Seven Law of Teaching by John Milton Gregory.
This book doesn’t just tell you how to teach, it explains how learning is accomplished in the first place and describes all the components of successful teaching.
In truth, if you want to be a more effective teacher, are already homeschooling your kids, or want to learn more efficiently yourself… Read this book.
Though the laws of teaching may seem rather obvious at first glance, this book skillfully examines them in depth and convicts the reader of the enormous and consequential job of the teacher.
Each chapter deals with a different law by defining it, explaining the philosophy behind it, rules for teachers and common violations/mistakes of these laws.
I would have liked more concrete examples or practical situations to reinforce the content of each law which is why I only gave it 4 instead of 5 stars.
All in all, a wonderful summary of the psychology and art of successful teaching.
This was written by a state superintendent of public education and college president, but the focus was also on Sunday school teaching. The book was well organized and interesting with chapters on the object of teaching, hindrances, etc. "Enthusiasm will accomplish more with inadequate learning and little skill than the best-trained and most erudite teacher wholly lacking in zeal." "Thoughts disentangle passing o'er the lips." Probably the most helpful to me in my current teaching responsibility was: "Give the pupil time to think."
Although written in the mid-1800s and directed at a religious audience, Gregory's advice holds true for teachers today. His advice includes good reminders such as pitching your language and style at students' level, knowing your subject thoroughly, and using handwork and questions and new application in review. None of this is new, at least not to me, but Gregory's "seven laws" give the rationale for why such methods are important, and ultimately, the book was a good reminder about what my responsibilities as a teacher are. Highly recommended.
I picked this up to sharpen my skills for teaching kids. The laws of teaching are so simple, but profound. It's amazing how often we violate them. I remember in college, teachers would show up not knowing the lesson speaking to a classroom full of sleeping students. Gregory would say that what was going on in that room was funny, but it wasn't teaching. If you are a teacher and you like this book, you'll constantly come back to it to sharpen your tools.
I read this since I'm a teacher now and don't really know what I'm doing. I was kind of amazed at how old this book is and yet how relevant. Gregory really clearly outlines some common barriers to learning and fundamental "laws" that, if followed, should facilitate a fruitful educational experience. Not sure I can remember to implement them all every day, but it definitely made me think about what I'm doing wrong.
I came across this book by chance and I'm very happy that I did. Although primarily written for youth sunday school teachers the laws are applicable to any form of teacher. Each chapter covers the philosophy of each law, tips to help the reader apply each law and also specific actions to avoid. I found each law to be practical, common sense and indispensable to the process of teaching. This is a book I will refer to often.
