https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31522415-what-it-means-when-a-man-falls-from-the-sky
"Girls with fire in their bellies will be forced to drink from a well of correction till the flames die out.But my tongue stirred anyway." Of all the critically-acclaimed books I've been eager to read this year, I have to say What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky fell pretty low down on the list. The Goodreads ratings haven't been great and, honestly, it didn't sound as exciting as, say, Her Body and Other Parties. But I enjoyed it a whole lot more.I can see why it might not appeal to eve
Emotions are also up for grabs in the titular "What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky", which imagines a future where climate change has brought floods to much of Britain and North America, resulting in another flood - this time of British immigrants into Nigeria where they form the “Biafra-Britannia Alliance.”The only story I disliked was “What is a Volcano?” A very strange tale that leaned too heavily on the magical metaphors refreshingly absent from most of the other stories.
With her luminous debut collection, What It Means When a Man Falls From the Sky, Lesley NNeka Arimah marks her richly deserved place in contemporary fiction. At the center of each impeccably written story, Arimah offers up a new kind of yearning--for love, for peace, for comfort, for home. Never have needful things been so gorgeously displayed.
This was a collection of short stories and at first I didn't quite catch on so I kept reading and I was like what the fuck is happening why do the characters keep changing.
I really enjoyed all the stories in this collection though and that's quite rare.
In fact I was kind of sad when the stories would end because I kept wanting to read more of all of them.
I really really loved Who Will Greet You at Home, where a women creates a baby for herself from different materials but each child falls apart until she uses hair, regardless of the stories warning against doing so.
In these twelve powerful stories that embrace magical-realist elements while deploying a powerfully empathetic understanding of character and circumstance, Lesley Nneka Arimah explores how parents and children, husbands and wives, lovers and friends, navigate conflicting cultures and struggle to reconcile conflicting desires, wants, and needs.“There was only so much a mother could ask a daughter to bear before that bond became bondage.”Going into to this I had no idea what to expect, but the author quickly garnered my attention with her on-point writing style and her ability to capture quietly specific moments that left me head spinning in awe.My favorite short story remains to be the second tale (“War Stories”) because it's the one that made me initially fall in love with the storytelling.
Library book- Overdrive- Audiobook.... narrated by Adjoa Andoh I had no idea what to expect from this book when I - ‘took-a- chance’ and downloaded this ‘available now’ library book. I didn’t know it won a Kirkus Prize for fiction — I didn’t even know that it was ‘short stories’. The very first thing I notice was how Delightful - AWESOME - Adjoa Andoh’s voice was to listen to. At the very beginning- although LOVING THE NARRATOR’S VOICE....I was struggling following along —but before long - the e
Library book- Overdrive- Audiobook....
narrated by Adjoa Andoh I️ had no idea what to expect from this book when I️ - ‘took-a- chance’ and downloaded this ‘available now’ library book.
The very first thing I️ notice was how Delightful - AWESOME - Adjoa Andoh’s voice was to listen to.
At the very beginning- although LOVING THE NARRATOR’S VOICE....I️ was struggling following along —but before long - the effort turned into ease .....Then I️ was laughing — “Guilt my mom in getting a hotel?” Oh my God ....
I️ was hysterically laughing at times.....BUT....these stories are not ha-ha funny.
Rating: 4* of five**THIS REVIEW IS OF THE CAINE PRIZE 2016 NOMINATED STORY OF THE SAME TITLE ONLY**A shortlisted story for this very prestigious prize in African literature, which is limited to short fiction but has launched numerous of its sixteen previous recipients into the international literary stratoshphere, Arimah's story is post-apocalyptic climate change fiction set in a world where the entirety of North America and Europe are submerged, the remaining planet absorbing the white refugees according to willingness and ability.
I am still waiting for somebody smarter than me to explain what's in the water in Nigeria, why it has so many amazing writers. Now that I've listened to this debut story collection on audio, the question is that much more urgent. Arimah (born in the UK to Nigerian parents, grew up in Nigeria and elsewhere) writes beautifully about a variety of themes; a few stories didn't rise much above the level of anecdote, but most were just stunning.
This short story collection contains so many important things: strong and complex female characters, scenes of Nigerian family life both in Nigeria and in America, and innovative touches of magical realism.
Lesley Nneka Arimah captures poignant moments throughout these stories, such as when a child's relationship with their overseas parent fades away, or when a woman from a difficult upbringing discerns that she wants more for herself than a successful marriage with a man.
Still, I would recommend What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky to anyone who finds the synopsis of the collection interesting.
Content Warning: Violence, Domestic Abuse, Trauma, Child AbuseI have been blessed by a master storyteller and I am grateful. There is so much beauty and hard realities in these stories. Through the use of magical realism and fantastical elements, characters inner turmoil are made physical. The characters are memorable and refreshingly flawed, so each story feels like a friend's you a secret. I enjoyed each and every story, they all held suspense, surprises and descriptions of family trauma. I
I enjoyed each and every story, they all held suspense, surprises and descriptions of family trauma.
What it Means When A Man Falls From the Sky is a story about how mathematicians have figured out a formula to fix the effects of trauma and grief.
The stories cross continents include future technology and incorporate African culture.
I am astounded by this author's talent and will happily read anything that she creates.Recommended for Readers who- enjoy memorable short stories- like reading about diverse characters and trauma- enjoy fantasy and magical realism elements
And I loved reading it in one night.
You know the feeling when you think you need to sleep and you close the book and something whispers 'Just one more?' in your mind?
Exactly!The writing is gorgeous and the stories are lovely too.
This is a straight 5 STAR read for me.
But I think I will wait a bit for the stories to sink in before deciding on my final rating.
Because a 5 star for a short story collection is a BIG DEAL.
As of now, I love the book.
And I already want to re read it.
Wonderful stories, each and every one of them.
The twists in the stories, marvellous.
The female protagonists in this collection are hurting, uncertain, they don't meet their expectations or those of the ones that are dear to them but carry with them strength and resilience.
What a collection of gems this is!I have been reading a good number of books dealing with grief this year and this one had a relatively fresh approach to it.
I think I have found a new favourite writer with Arimah, which doesn't normally happen for me after reading just one book from a writer :-)
AMAZING.
Another bookstagrammer, @bookisshhh, and I read this book of short stories together and shared our thoughts about the collection on her Instagram page.
The title story is by far the outstanding tale in the collection; I enjoyed it so much that as soon as I finished it I started it over again.
While I enjoyed most of the stories, two of them were slow enough that I ended up not finishing them.
If you are on Instagram check out the fabulous post that @bookisshhh created to share our joint thoughts on the collection.
I definitely recommend this book for those who enjoy short stories and uniquely told tales.
I received an advanced copy of this book because Lesley and I follow each other on Twitter (where folks know I LOVE reading) and she asked if she could send me one to get my thoughts.Now that that's out of the way, SWEET BUTTERY JESUS I WASN'T READY.
I am still in my feelings about what I read and it's been over 12 hours since I finished.
If you love amazing writing?
You need to read this.
Honestly can't wait to re-read it.
Spectacular, emotional, poignant, moving collection of stories about love, parenting, growing up, marriage, self-awareness, empathy and she stuck a little scifi in with the title story.
But every story seemed highly emotionally charged.(view spoiler)[The Future Looks Good - Powerful start.
Arimah packs a lot of story into very little space.
4.5 Stars War Story - Again unique and interesting.
Arimah interrelates a father's war experience to a daughter's behavioral issues.
By the end of the story, she starts to view her own mother more positively and is reflecting on her own behavior.
Rating: 4.5* of fiveUPDATE 7 November 2017: This deserving collection has won a 2017 Kirkus Prize!This edition's review is coming on my blog, Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud, during Booksgiving! That's my book-gifting guide for the perplexed from 24 November to 24 December, if you're wondering.This title also appears in the semi-final round of the Goodreads Choice Awards and I strongly encourage you to vote it through to the next round! Please? Pretty please with real, delicious sugar on top?
3.5 Short stories, especially from debut authors, seem to me like an opportunity for writers to pull on different shoes and walk around in them for a while.
I can see Arimah doing that in this 12 story collection.
There were stories that I thought had almost N.K.Jemisinesque fantasy elements.
Some were outstanding, particularly  Windfalls  which also had a dark, almost horror vibe to it.I thought Arimah was on less sure footing when she covered territory that I think Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie does extraordinarily well, stories that rely heavily on character and nuanced observations.
Most of these dozen stories are set in a recognizable Nigeria, with past events like the Biafran War contrasting with real and imagined future scenarios.
Medical and food-related metaphors are particularly common.
The tone is nicely balanced between playful and melancholy, and the variety in narration and setup keeps things interesting, such that you’ll likely sit down and read several stories at a time.
I’d particularly recommend this to fans of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and Kei Miller.
I’ll be looking out eagerly for Arimah’s next book, whether it’s a novel or more short stories.See my full review at Shiny New Books.
As Nakia said, "the first story went off like a firecracker out the gate." And, this collection of short stories ended with a bang!
In this book, no two short stories are like the other in terms of plot, pace or tone.
This collection is not only a testament of Lesley's writing prowess but a display of her ingenuity.
No, a little closer.
Closer." Her words sucked me right in & made me feel everything that her characters felt.
Short story collections can be hard to rate but my review is really driven by the state of awe in which this book left me.
!!! https://africanbookaddict.com/2017/12... 4.5 stars. This collection of stories is out of this world - literally! I really loved Arimah’s wild imagination and the finesse with which she created worlds I never knew could exist. This collection embodies how a short story collection should be: ORIGINAL, unpredictable, startling and out-of-the-box.
These are concentrated, enchanting bursts of stories - mostly about the lives of women and their daughters or mothers. Some are grounded and sharp-edged, others fabulous and whimsical. So good.
The first story went off like a firecracker out of the gate, and I was glued all the way thru until the end.Lesley’s stories are simple, but also brilliant, deep, magical, and a whole lot of other good and great stuff.
I loved this collection mostly because the stories are witty, and many of them have complicated, headstrong, funny female protagonists, or others who are stuck and pushing through dire circumstances with sacrifice or love for family.
I can’t adequately express how much I fell in love with Lesley’s writing through these stories, other than to say that I wish there were more.
But the human universals of being poor, or being mad, of family, of failure and of using myth as a palliative or illustration are beyond gender.The stories in this collection are:The Future Looks Good - shocking.War Stories - a father tries to connect to and correct his young daughter, but both become lost in contemplating the application of violence.Wild - A visiting American-Nigerian teen and her cousin, a Nigerian teen, unexpectedly find the common ground for coming-of-age teenagers in parental and social boundaries.Light - a Nigerian father wants his happy unfiltered pre-teen daughter to stay unfiltered, but his wife in America, getting a business degree, knows eleven-year-olds must learn self-control and boundaries.Second Chances - mom returns by stepping out of a photo.Windfall - a mother feels her child is just an inanimate prop on the stage of mom’s life.Who Will Greet You at Home - a powerful symbolic story about motherhood, where the best supportive entitlements are awarded because of high levels of wealth, but where being a mother is undermined by desperation and lack of social opportunities.
'Who Will Greet You At Home' is probably my favourite of the collection - the way she portrays motherhood within folklore and mythology is truly reminisce of the writing of the Greats *cough* Achebe and Butler *cough* I just want to live in the world created in 'What It Means When A Man Falls From the Sky' even with its flaws and misgivings.
My favourite characters in the collection are 'Glory' from the self-titled story, Mayoma from 'Redemption, 'Nwando' from War Stories and I am still not over the heartbreak of 'The Future Looks Good' and 'Windfalls'.
My expectations were very high for this short story collection and it didn't disappoint. Lesley Nneka Arimah is a writer I'll be watching and anxious to read again.
4.5*.I've given myself a couple of days to digest this, and I can without doubt say that this one of the best short story collections I've read in a long time. I'm not going to bother reviewing it because I'm still ill and, well, other people have accurately summed up what I thought about it already, but this is a powerful - and often moving - collection of stories, with no weak spots. (Just a couple of stories that are less mind-blowing, but still superb.)A must read.
Very good collection of short stories that take place in the US or various African countries. Common themes include the struggles faced by younger girls and many stories feature children with missing or unavailable parents. Some of the stories could have been more developed, but this is well worth the read overall.
This is such a special collection of stories from a unique voice that I can’t wait to read more from.
“Glory” tells of a young woman trying to please her mother, and all the interesting ways she fails while trying to decide if pleasing her is what she even wants.And of course there’s “Who Will Greet You at Home,” a wild take on preparing for motherhood that introduced me to this collection, and is still the most unique story I think I’ve ever read.“Round and round until the ball of hair became a body and nubs became arms, fingers.
and then turn around and surprise the heck out of you.
#RWLChallenge: A book from Well Read Black Girl's 2017 reading list.
Short story collections are probably my favorite works to read, and this one had rave reviews from nearly everyone I know.
I’m incredibly happy that Kramerbooks in DC was finally able to get the job done, because this is easily one of my favorite collections in a very long time.
I hope everyone has a significantly easier time finding this at their local libraries and bookstores that I did, so anyone who hasn't can read it ASAP!Final Note: In Episode 5 of Levar Burton Reads, the best podcast I haven’t yet listened to, he reads the titular story in the collection.
