https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19575.Julia
Julia is my first Peter Straub read in over a decade.
All the suspense disappeared, and oddly enough, I felt like I was reading a novelization of a film I'd seen a hundred times over.
By the end of the chapter, Straub flips the script, presumably because he's noticed his repetition, and slightly changes the sentence to: "Her vagina ached." Bravo, you fucking wordsmith, you!In summation: Peter Straub is a literary giant, and what I say about his books does not matter, but this early novel is, for the most part, a pain in the ass to read.
This slipcased hardcover edition is numbered 40 of 200 produced and is signed by:Peter StraubT.M. Wright (introduction)Marcela Bolivar (cover)Rodger Gerberding (interior illustrations)
Julia isn't a modern horror novel racing with flesh-eating zombies or vampire romance or evil imaginary friends; it is a ghost story in a sense, but it's more so about how evil people never die...
It isn't until she purchases a rather large old house with a dark, extensive past that the horror really begins.This isn't the best of Straub's work, but it's creepy and disturbing and it's also got a good mystery to it.
If you want to avoid the fast-paced action of modern horror and just sit and enjoy a compelling horror mystery or paranormal story, this is definitely a good one to check out.
This was the author's first venture into the supernatural genre, originally published in 1975 and it reads like it.
It's impossible for me not to compare Julia to If You Could See Me Now, Straub's second genre entry, that I've recently read.
This one might have done with more likeable characters or at the very least a stronger Julia, but then again a stronger woman would likely put up more of a fight.
For a all its shortcomings, this was still made for a very enjoyable reading experience or a genuine literary horror.
Über weite Strecken eine klassische Geistergeschichte, die sich etwas in die Länge zieht.Trotzdem: gut geschrieben und unterhaltsam, und nicht oberflächlich.3,5 Sterne
One of those rare cases where the book isn't quite as good as the movie. Still worth reading, but if you like the story definitely check the movie out. It's called The Haunting of Julia and it stars a wan-looking Mia Farrow... very creepy. Lovely music too.
С напредване на повествованието обаче, лудостта съвсем не се ограничава между стените на въпросната, а успява да обсеби напълно главните герои и ги прехвърля в един подобен на техния, но доста по-мрачен и нелогичен свят, като изкривява умовете им, подобно на действителността около тях.От тук идва цялото майсторство на Строб.
Мрачните и наситени с безсмислено насилие картини, подбора на прилагателните в потискащите природни и градски описания, постепенното задълбочаване на лудостта, така че да се стори съвсем логично на читателя.
Всичко това бавно, но сигурно води до един финал, както логичен, така и изненадващ.
A wonderful creepy and perverted tale that was the basis for the movie, The Haunting of Julia. It doesn't bust out till around page 200, so stick with it.
Excellent read. Wonderfully tense and atmospheric, with classic gothic sensibilities. Thing is, I've heard lots of folks say, "If you loved GHOST STORY, JULIA will blow your mind!" In this case, I beg to differ. GHOST STORY painted with a much richer story, and the characters were far more likable, with a lot more substance. But still, that doesn't say anything bad about JULIA. I just like GHOST STORY a whole lot more.
I didn't like this one nearly so well as Straub's other novels. The beginning was promising, and the tension builds nicely through the first 3/4 of the book, but the ending seemed really abrupt and overly vague to me. I kept reading because I thought there was going to be a pay-off, and I was going to find out something really creepy and interesting, but instead things just stayed obscure and I was left confused by the ending.
One of the novel's major "surprises"--(view spoiler)[that Julia was the one who killed Kate, and not her husband Magnus (hide spoiler)]--was evident from early on, so that was no shock.
The only thing I didn't expect was (view spoiler)[Julia's suicide (hide spoiler)], but that was written in such a confusing manner that I had no idea what happened until the characters explained it later on.
Magnus is the typical abusive, controlling husband (though rather less aggressive than many of his brothers, who would never let their wives move out and buy new houses without them without killing them first); Lily is condescending, smug, and uses Julia; Mark seems to be sympathetic to her, but is also blatantly using her, both for money and as an emotional crutch.
It's one of those things where I don't know what I would have liked more had I read the book before seeing the movie.Spoilers:For example, in the movie version, many of the characters are killed by Olivia.
Also, we didn't know the connection of Magnus, Heather and Olivia.
There isn't a relationship between Mark and Julia (and I didn't know if we knew that Mark was adopted and a brother to Magnus in the movie).They were very alike and yet different stories.
I'm not sure if I would have liked the movie as much had all these things occurred in the book in the movie or not.
"Julia" is an incredibly well-done modern Gothic in the same vein as Henry James' "The Turn of the Screw" or Shirley Jackson's "The Haunting of Hill House," though not quite so masterful.
We see through they eyes of a main character, the fragile Julia Lofting, who at best is an unreliable narrator, and at worst an outright madwoman.
If you want to see the movie version, its U.S. title is "The Haunting of Julia" and it stars Mia Farrow as Julia Lofting.
The movie definitely takes liberties from the book, but it works.
The musical score is incredibly eerie, too.
Great literary horror novel.
Before this one, I had recently read "Ghost Story" and "If You Could See Me Now" both of which I enjoyed a bit more possibly because the supernatural in "Julia" is ambiguous.
As much as I've always loved the idea of ghosts and mysterious creatures, I can't help being very skeptical about their existance.
So when I read a ghost story, I prefer those that at some point convince me that the haunting is real and not mere imagination or "an undigested bit of beef".Can't wait to read another Peter Straub ghost novel and would welcome any recommendations.
It gets revenge.
Revenge is what it wants, and it gets it.""There was no safety, only its illusion."INTENSE - the most terrifying book I've read in a long time.
Peter Straub is a master at psychological horror, at getting under your skin and making you believe, even if just for a few moments, that you are the character being watched, stalked, threatened.
Staying up late to read this the other night, the only one awake in the house, I heard the same tapping at the windows that Julia did and had to get up and check them all, scared out of my mind, of course.
When Julia Lufting loses her child horribly, she moves to a new house to deal with her grief. What she finds is that her house is haunted by a little girl who died mysteriously. Now she must deal with her own grief and discover how the child from her house died. I sort of enjoyed this book and give it a B+!
I mention it here because reading it caused me to finally break through the Straub barrier I had formed back in my childhood--and that brings me to Julia.As far as book covers go, this one stepped outside of the ethereal realm and planted its foot firmly in the creepy.
As I read it, I began to think that it may have been a blueprint for countless haunting horror films that would follow and that any predictability was therefore not the fault of the book.
Historia en las que baja el listón.
Tomo la idea de la película y las 4horas posteriores para escribirla.El titulo en español ha tenido varias formas, me quedo con “la obsesión de Julia” que lo veo muy acertado.
A pesar de que su sinopsis haga creer en una historia de casa encantada.
Tras salir corriendo de su marido que le hacía la vida imposible, Julia decide comprar una enorme casa por que sí.
No puede ser una típica casita, no, una ENORME mansión que le sobra por todos lados.
Ella empezara a ver continuamente a una niña que se parece muchísimo a su hija muerta.
Voulant fuir plusieurs aspects de son passé, Julia achète une maison à Londres. Ce qu’elle ne savait pas, c’est que l’âme malveillante hantant la demeure l’attendait depuis deux décennies. Va-t-elle réussir à résoudre le mystère de cet endroit et réussir à calmer cet esprit maléfique ? Un récit aux personnages à la fois complexes et introspectifs et à l’intrigue néanmoins inquiétante, déroutante, qui donne au lecteur une impression d’être à la fois dans le réel et l’irréel.
Straub's first novel is quite different than his other writing. Good book, just different. 3.5/5.
Das Buch beginnt damit, dass die Frau Julia ein Haus kauft.
Sie hat gerade ihren Mann Magnus verlassen, dem sie die Schuld am Tod ihrer kleinen Tochter gibt.
Sie findet heraus, dass in dem Haus eine Frau gelebt hat, deren Tochter als kleines Maedchengestorben ist.
Magnus und seine Schwester glauben ihr nicht und sind ueberzeugt, dass Julia den Tod ihrer Tochter nicht verkraftet hat und nun den Verstand verliert.
War es nun das tote Maedchen, das nachts die Vase im Wohnzimmer umgeschmissen hat, oder war es Magnus, der Julia Angst machen wollte?
Other than that, the narrative really was quite tedious, with lines thrown in just for the sake of it, or so it felt like.The third and last part of the book went by like a weird hallucination and I finished without a sense of closure for the story or the characters.So I don't know if it's just me but Julia seemed quite a bit hyped and was a disappointment for me, especially since I truly enjoyed the author's other books.
Maybe if I had read it when it was written I would have liked it more, I don't know.
I love good haunting books.
Straub is an excellent writer, and creates a lot of atmospheric tension.
There are several tropes in this book that will be familiar to horror writers, and the creepy child is done so often there days that it is has almost become cliche.
This book, published in 1975, predates a lot of that, and Straub pulls it off brilliantly.
I've been told that Ghost Story is his masterpiece haunting, and after reading Julia, I can't wait to read it.
This is a quick, easy read, and you won't be disappointed if you like old-school Gothic hauntings.
First time I came across Peter Straub - that I knew of - was during a Stephen King spree I had some years back, which eventually led me to read The Talisman and Black House, two The Dark Tower-related novels that he and King wrote together.
What exactly made me look the movie up that random evening in November, I do not remember anymore, but I know I had exactly two clues to go on; Mia Farrow was in it, and it was about a creepy evil ghost girl.
So no one's written a review of this 1970s novel, yet, huh?
The writer is good in keeping you guessing, through the end, as to whether this woman is crazy, whether her husband and brother-in-law are driving her crazy, or whether she is really being targeted by a supernatural force.
The fact that her sister-in-law dabbles in the spirit world helps as does the fact that she is a grieving mother living in the house of another past-grieving mother.
The elements are all there for a good psychological horror novel.
This was the first book I ever read by Peter Straub, tried reading Ghost Story before but somehow I never made it past the first half (will give it another try sometime). This one started out really good and story sucked me in immediately. However the end wasn't as satisfying as I had hoped. Though this has made me interested in reading Peter Straub's other books. Will just have to see which one to read next
This story leaves the reader with a lot of questions. I tend to believe that Julia, a haunted woman, was fated to become the victim of the haunted house.The scene where Julia meets Heather Rudge was quite chilling. Two women, both with sanity issues, both of whom have a daughter in the grave, both women have lived in that house on Holland Park. The deeper connection that they both share is really the clincher.
Peter Straub's breakout book that launched him in the ranks of premier horror writers such as Stephen King and Clive Barker.It established him as the master of the modern day ghost story and all his books have a running theme of past mistakes catching up with you in really bad ways.It's very gothic, a damsel in distress, a haunted house and a very evil ghostly presence, but updated to our times.
Ho fatto fatica a finire questo libro. Julia ha una buona trama e dei buoni personaggi ma non ce l'ho fatta ad entrare e questa volta i "fantasmi del libro " mi hanno respinto. Non è un libro scritto male solo che in maniera molto soprannaturale non mi ha fatto entrare. Non ero nel mood. Pazienza Peter, sarà per la prossima volta.
Stephen King recommended author and book. Book noted as "important to the genre we have been discussing" from Danse Macabre, published in 1981. Author discussed in chapter 9.
