https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86598.Discourse_on_Colonialism
Obviously the white race is at the top of the ladder and they are born soldiers/rulers.
Obviously, Cesaire mocks at the humanism of Europe.
Later when Hitler took the same measures of treatment reserved for the colonized to the white people of Europe, the Europeans could not understand.
It was the crime against the WHITE PEOPLE.Besides, Cesaire also says that colonization results in dehumanizing both the colonizer and the colonized.
For the colonized it is a humiliation and a perennial fall into the inferiority complex.Cesaire writes all these in a passionate way and one cannot but be moved.
It hides under the rather innocuous title 'Discourse of Colonialism', but instead might be appropriate 'Damn you and damn your hypocrisy and hate that led to hundreds of years of atrocities', or something like that.The book moves from condemnation of wars and injustice, to attacks on now-obscure colonial theorists and 'racialists'.
Cesaire makes the bold statement that Nazism is so infamous in Europe because it committed the same atrocities that the Europeans did to other, non-white nations.
He also does make a few wrong statements which modern anthropology has corrected, but he'd likely be fine with that.
“It is a fundamental error to consider the other cultures as inferior to our own simply because they are different.”В своето кратичко есе Еме Сезер пламенно критикува колонизаторските практики на Европа, най-вече Франция, и „хуманистичната“ мотивировка, която стои зад тях.
– попита Клара.– Разбира се, обожаема мис!– Защо пък, щом не сте ги яли?– За да ги цивилизовам, тоест, за да отнемам от тях слонова кост и гума…“Колонизацията е органично свързана и с расизма.
Сезер цитира различни автори, които предлагат нелепи хипотези защо е необходимо да се владеят „по-низши“ нации.
Сезер цитира много автори, които просто оборва с по няколко изречения.
Ne jugez point, afin que vous ne soyez point jugés.
Ou comment peux-tu dire à ton frère : Laisse-moi ôter une paille de ton œil, toi qui as une poutre dans le tien ?
Hypocrite, ôte premièrement la poutre de ton œil, et alors tu verras comment ôter la paille de l'œil de ton frère.
Matthieu 7.1-5Προσέχετε δὲ ἀπὸ τῶν ψευδοπροφητῶν, οἵτινες ἔρχονται πρὸς ὑμᾶς ἐν ἐνδύμασιν προβάτων, ἔσωθεν δέ εἰσιν λύκοι ἅρπαγες.
Gardez-vous des faux prophètes.
Ils viennent à vous en vêtements de brebis, mais au dedans ce sont des loups ravisseurs.
Vous les reconnaîtrez à leurs fruits.
Matthieu 7.15-17
Aimé Césaire’s "Discourse on Colonialism" is a poignant exploration of the brutality, indifference, and dehumanizing effect of colonization on both colonizer and colonized.
However, “the mechanization of man, the gigantic rape of everything intimate” does not give the white man a second thought, not until this monstrous dehumanizing colonial impulse diffuses throughout Europe and colonizes the white man—as fascism.
This is what Césaire sees as the end of the road of capitalism and the Western mentality of rationality, hierarchy and domination: an ultimate devastation of bodies, souls, and land.A brilliant, evocative, poetic essay by a surrealist artist/writer whose work should be read as foundational for anyone with an interest in post-colonial thought.

I love reading things like this that ensure me, that the dynamics of this world ARE indeed unjustified, and that it is NOT ME.
What I love most, is the power it gives me, as an Arab, to tell those who try to convince me of their racial superiority, or those who are acting on self-imposed sense of authority to go fuck themselves.
Or those who try to convince me that killing languages, cultures, and countries in the name of common good -AKA the good of the white man- is justified.
It's a very short read, but very powerful.
It was a really nice and simple style used to describe and analyse a question that long has been on top. It's that "Europe is Undefinable", that's quite right. I think the writer is taking the scope to defend the African culture that long has been a source of fun and envy. Colonizers says that they are coming to improve the life of Barbary, but in fact they come just to accomplish their profit, and this is what they are doing for the moment. Thanks Aimé for this nice work.
One of the most essential books for anyone committed to freedom.
Aimé in his essay, written in 1955, explains how the process of colonialism dehumanises not only colonizer but also colonized. Colonizers treat others like they are less human and needs to be tamed while colonized starts suffering from inferiority complex and gets alienated with his own identity. This essay is a precursor to the powerful writings of Franz Fanon, Edward Said and many other post-colonial writers.If someone is interested in decolonising her mind, this books is a must read.
"They talk to me about civilization, I talk about proletarianization and mystification.For my part, 
It was overdue.Writing in 1950, just after the Second World War, Césaire counters the "shock" that Mussolini's and Hitler's fascism (not to mention the Holocaust) had caused the European world by pointing out that in fact these events had been anticipated by the extermination of indigenous peoples in the Americas and the enslavement of millions more from Africa.
The point here is not that white people got what they deserved, but rather that colonization and dehumanization are constant features of bourgeois capitalism, and that inescapably colonizers undergo what Césaire calls "the boomerang effect": In order to justify their moral relativism, they depict other people as barbaric animals, but in the actions they take following this rhetorical maneuver, they transform themselves into animals.The essay is provocative and reads smoothly.

Morrison echoes these effects in Beloved, the white, when he looks at the slave as an animal- an ape, himself becomes an ape.We speak of Hitler-ism as a "strange"/ fearsom/unwanted phenomenon.
We pretend, and some really are, shocked by Trump-ism today, but we only fool ourselves.
Listen to what every other voice of the hegemonic powers are saying and they are the same.
The result is Mannoni..." Trump and Hitler have not risen out of a vacuum, they are a result of an inherently racist colonial white society.
This diseased sense of responsibility heard in all the Western leaders voices towards the east is nothing but, to repeat, diseased.
If you would like a quick primer on the application of Lenin's Right of Nations to Self-Determination, read Cesaire. He practically quotes Marx, but not Lenin, while throwing around "comrade" and "proletariat" and "revolution."Plus, he's actually hilarious. I'm sure that some of the humor was lost in translation, but when I got to the part about colonialist Europe "chewing on Hitler's vomit"...I lost it.
Everyone, everyone, everyone should read this at some point, preferably it should be required in high school. Seriously should be apart of everyday discourse because it was written how long ago and too many things persist today. People need to think more, and Cesaire really nailed some good points in this. Love his honestly poignant style too, interested in reading more.
These days we hear many writers (e.g. Lindqvist) who say that the Holocaust was the apex of what the Europeans were practicing in the colonies. Cesaire said it first and said it pointedly. Somethings things have to be repeated before they can be heard.
Read with Fanon.

My main point is that non-fiction is a genre of literature that I find hard to read due to the way it's written, I usually prefer historical fiction that is well researched.
This is a whole different topic altogether, but it's also one of the reasons why I've been wanting to read more non-fiction, to learn in more accurate and pinned down terms.Before I even talk about this, here is the definition of Discourse:Discourse: noun1.communication of thought by words; talk; conversation:earnest and intelligent discourse.2.a formal discussion of a subject in speech or writing, as a dissertation, treatise, sermon, etc.3.Linguistics.
ça part un peu dans tous les sens, je déplore le manque de structure mais peut être j'aurai dû le lire en un seul jet. Cet essai nous en apprends plus sur le regard qu'ont certains occidentaux sur le reste du monde. Il est instructif et jouissif de voir comment Monsieur Césaire démonte chaque argument.Il me tarde de lire ses autre ouvrages et notamment ses poèmes.
yow! scathing... and so important. i love how cesaire sees through the shit, is so critical and strong. this book is really inspiring to me personally. looking forward to reading more post-colonial works...
Great piece of rhetoric pointing out the fascist rot of European so-called civilisation.
This happens to be one of my favorite books. Inspiring, and compelling.
.
Particularly interesting in the light of the history of the later twentieth century, he warns Europe that without eliminating colonialism and allying with the decolonized countries the Europeans themselves will become part of a new American Empire.As a member of the Martinican Communist Party, he does have some illusions yet in Stalinism, which he later broke with; as the introductory essay by Robin D.G. Kelley suggests, he is trying to revise Marxism to incorporate the anti-colonial struggle as a major focus rather than one that is subordinate to the struggle of the proletariat in the developed countries -- which is really to return to the principles of socialism that were eclipsed by Stalinism.
This should be read in every 3rd-year-of-high-school history course.
But reading texts like this, 70 years old yet still a dizzying gut punch (in only 78 pages!
did I already mention that?), it leads me to dream an education system that actually engaged works like this, that challenged students, during that most anti-bullshit moment of age 14-18, to recognize how deeply unjust the structures within which we move and "prosper" still are.
That would be an education that could never be called boring or irrelevant.But of course it's rather obvious why such texts won't be included.
The Introduction by Robin Kelley is worth the price of the book alone, I read it after I had finished the discourse, not only is it full of valuable information on the Anti Colonialist movement of the time, it really captures the essence of the discourse itself.The discourse can be read in a couple of hours, it is intriguing in that it is by no means a purely factual, scientific essay, rather its an appeal to the soul.
This book’s thesis is that instead of elevating the non-western world, colonizers in fact “de-civilize the colonized”.
Cesaire “had practically given up on Europe and the old humanism and it’s claims of universality, opting instead to re-define the ‘universal’ in a way that did not privilege Europe.” Colonial domination led to everything (defining what is good or civilized) being judged in European terms.
Not to Cesaire, after it killed off the other surrounding civilizations like “Carthage, Egypt, Greece, Judea, Persia, Dacia, and Transalpine Gaul”!
Cesaire argues that Nazism is not unique.
Because Hitler applied colonialism to white people—not to brown people—and this was an unforgivable mistake.
Had Hitler ventured south to Africa or East to Asia, the world would have “absolved it, shut their eyes to it, legitimized it, because, until then, [Nazism] had been applied only to non-European peoples”, and before Europeans became its victims, “they were its accomplices.” Cesaire adds that Nazism is part of the essential character of Western Civilization and drives his point with fury, irony, and rancor.
It is one and the same, as seen from the vantage point of colonized people, argues Cesaire.
