https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17619295-diler-mujrim

This was probably the best book by Ibne Safi that I have read yet. A serious detective novel, that was nice to read.
Always a pleasure reading Inspector Fareedi's adventures
Ibne Safi was a prolific crime fiction writer from the 1950s and Amazon has a collection of his books now.
Faridi is a cigar smoking, no-nonsense sleuth who stumbles upon a rather gruesome murder of an old lady.
Slowly, Faridi uncovers a complicated plot that involves the local royalty, an ailing nawab, a crazed scientist and many other interesting characters.
Although the book was a Hindi translation from the original Urdu, it is an easy read.
In any case, Faridi and the rest of the characters have a timeless, universal appeal that makes the book a decent read.
Ibne Safi was a huge hit, churning out a novel a month, in two series, one featuring a detective named Imran, and the other with Inspector Faridi as the protagonist.
Diler Mujrim is not just the first Inspector Faridi novel, but Ibne Safi’s debut novel too.
Helped by his sidekick, an effeminate and occasionally buffoonish sergeant named Hamid, Faridi enters the story of Diler Mujrim when an old lady, Savita Devi, is found stabbed to death in her sleep.
कहानी की गति तेज है और जैसे जैसे कहानी आगे बढ़ती रहती है वैसे वैसे उपनयास का कथानक रोचक होता जाता है। कहानी में काफी घुमाव है जो कि पाठक को अंत तक अपने बाँधे रखती हैं।अगर आप थरिलरस के शौक़ीन है तो आपको ये उपनयास ज़रूर पसंद आएगा।उपनयास के विषय में आप मेरे बलॉग में निमन लिंक पर भी जाकर पढ़ सकते हैं :दिलेर मुजरिम
कहानी की गति तेज है और जैसे जैसे कहानी आगे बढ़ती रहती है वैसे वैसे उपन्यास का कथानक रोचक होता जाता है। कहानी में काफी घुमाव है जो कि पाठक को अंत तक अपने बाँधे रखती हैं।अगर आप थ्रिलर्स के शौक़ीन है तो आपको ये उपन्यास ज़रूर पसंद आएगा।उपन्यास के विषय में आप मेरे ब्लॉग में निम्न लिंक पर भी जाकर पढ़ सकते हैं :दिलेर मुजरिम
Irrespecive of the title, and what rating I give, I love his work.Ibn-e-safi, the person who introduced me to the world of suspense and thriller at young age of six (ish).Growing up, it was a challenge to get hold of his books. Thanks to the people who put a lot of effort to digitize all his books. Since past three years, i read all his 150+ books, Imran Series and Jasoosi Duniya, at least once in a quarter. Yes, that is how much I like his work. Sue me, if it is wrong.
Ibn-e-safi rocks...The book was conceived in 1952 yet it still captivates the reader.
i am very eager to read those books which was penned by ibne safiand translated into hindi by prem prakash
इबने सफी साहब से बेहतर और कया हो सकता है....
इब्ने सफी साहब से बेहतर और क्या हो सकता है....
Nicely written and a quick read.
kjjkkj
great!!!!
I want to read this book
