https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5055.Night_Over_Water
5 stars to Ken Follett's Night Over Water.
Someone else I know was reading this one and thought it was amazing.
I decided to give it a chance.
It WAS amazing.
I couldn't put it down.
All the characters work so well together and I decided I like Ken Follett a lot!
This is a definite read if you like suspense and thriller combined with some light romance and a bit of history!
The number of stories that interweave, and the possible connections.
And who is actually going to win whose heart.
Realmente me gustó.
Todos los pasajeros abordan huyendo de algo o persiguiendo a alguien, pero durante el accidentado viaje se redefinirán las vidas de muchos de los personajes y la mayoría tendrá un papel decisivo hacia el final.Me ha dejado sorprendida la versátil pluma de Ken Follett que, independiente de lo que esté contando, logra atrapar al lector.
Con la misma intensidad e interés aborda tanto el encuentro íntimo de una pareja como los detalles técnicos que pondrán en riesgo al Boeing 314, todo bajo el marco histórico de los inicios de la Segunda Guerra Mundial y con excelentes descripciones de la sociedad del momento.Lo recomiendo mucho para pasar un rato más que entretenido.
Follett, the GreatWow, Wow, Wow!!!Ken Follett is such an amazing storyteller!His books are a combination of Truth (History plus Politics) and fictionized adventures.And here is what we do:We learn a bunch of Trues, while enjoying a couple of Adventures!He’s the teacher and we the happy students 😊👍Well done, Master Follett — you nailed it again!!!
It is loaded with well-timed action, typical intrigue, and indulgent sex scenes with every woman desperate for a man and every man reluctant, but passionate, toward a woman.Honestly, that is the predominant crime here.
It is not a brave book, and the author's choices feel too safe to deliver any depth or surprises.
This book lacks metaphor or character arcs of value.What I've written thusfar would give it three stars, but it loses a star for another sort of crime: over sexualization of its female characters.
The book is fairly forgettable and indulgent.
Some for political reasons, some for love, some for business and some from the law.What no one knew was that one crew member would be making a desperate attempt to save his young wife or that he would risk the souls of all on board in his attempt.NIGHT OVER WATER by Ken Follett is an intriguing and twisted drama that plays out among a group of passengers aboard and each outcome is never quite clear until the end.Ken Follett is a master at subplots driving together to create a kaleidoscope of tension, passion and humanity at both its best and worst.
This was an exciting story with a great plot.
Follett takes his time to develop the characters in such a way that before long you feel you know them intimately.
Some you like...some you dispise.
Some surprise you in the end.I would give this book 4 stars easily, except that Follett, like so many authors, decided he needed to include several instances of sexual rendezvous, all of which, in my humble opinion, were really unnessarily explicit, which added nothing to the story but was just written gratuitously.
For that reason I have given this book a rating of only "it was ok".
I enjoyed it. Throughout, the book jumps between soap opera and thriller; the romance often feeling a bit forced and/or out of place.I was going to rate this book 3 stars, but I’m going to be a bit generous and give it a narrow 4 stars. Good character build and well written narrative and dialogue.
Ken Follet’s stories are so easy to get absorbed in.
This one touches on the disturbing fascist groups in 1939, in both Britain and the U.S., that were pushing not just appeasement but outright support for Hitler.
Much of the action takes place on an enormous sea plane, a luxury hotel in the air.
Follet’s detailed research on the plane really pay off as he makes the scene come alive creating terrific suspense in a unique and fascinating setting.
The characters are nuanced with interesting shades of gray.
Still there are ones I rooted heavily for and others against, adding to the satisfaction this novel.
Did not like this book at all.
Felt so much time was spent describing sexual indiscretions that the characters weren't fully developed.
Also found female characters in this time period unrealistically feeble, written more like men would want them to be, but probably not how they are.
Plot was thorough, but a little far fetched.
Felt like this was a fantasy rather than a real story.
However, he obviously did his research and was very thorough with descriptions of the plane, etc.
so I had to give him one star.
Sorry Mr. Follett, but I recommend our readers try something else.
https://www.instagram.com/p/BCn7EMIRt...
Desta vez, e ainda sobre um clima de guerra, Follett leva-nos a sobrevoar o atlântico nas asas de um Boeing 314, um luxuoso hidroavião, que faria a viagem entre Inglaterra e os Estados Unidos e a quem as pessoas com grandes possibilidades era permitido viajar.No entanto, ter dinheiro não significa ter escrúpulos e no mesmo local vão estar reunidos, durante 29 horas, pessoas de várias estirpes, desde a família Oxenford, cujo patriarca é um acérrimo fascista e seguidor de Hitler, que acaba de declarar a Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Enjoyed this book, fairly fast read, with lots of different characters and their own agendas.
What got my attention to read this book is that it has a New Brunswick flare to it - later in the book, the events take place in Shediac (of all places) and then the Bay of Fundy, around Grand Manan!Who are the bad guys - the gangster, the wealthy fascist Englishman, the thief, the crew - so many suspects!
A bit of caution - some very hot scenes in this book.Would have given this 5 stars, but I feel that the book left some unfinished business - not going to say what that is though - read the book!4.5 stars and 2 thumbs up
For those who's interested in aircraft or engineering, might find this book interesting, because Follet did excellent research on the Clipper.For those who is not, the story might seem a bit slow in the beginning, because he starts the book with different stories of the characters who later on will be the passenger of the Clipper.
The Oxenford family-a troubled aristocratic family, Harry Marks-the young jewel thief, Diana Lovesey-an Englishwoman who is leaving her husband to run away with her american lover, Mark Alder, Mervin Lovesey-the abandoned husband who tries to catch the Clipper to win his wife back, Nancy Lenehan-an American businesswoman, Eddie Deakin-the flight engineer.
All those characters mixed together in the Clipper with their own situation and problem, creating a pretty good story.
I wanted to read a simple, but good thriller, not some trashy porn!
Why so many sex scenes?
The final scene - simply horrendous.
Complete with the least professional gangsters ever and even (view spoiler)[a guy who manages to reveal his identity just a second before he dies (hide spoiler)].My rating is 2 (instead of 1) because there are also some good parts of the book.
It is a real page-turner and might seem promising at first, but in the end it turned out to be very, very tacky.
When I started Night Over Water I wasn't really sure what to expect other than another book about the WWII.
One of the reasons was because this book reminds soooo much of the Murder on the Orient Express by Agatha Christie (that by now you should know I absolutely loooove) - well, the parts that narrate the passengers on the Clipper with no way out reminds me of Christie's novel.
I loved how things turned out in the end and I would love to know more about how some of the characters got on with their lives.
Set in WWII just after the declaration of war between Germany and England, the plot details the 36-hour flight of the Clipper, a large luxury sea plane. On board or otherwise involved are a former Nazi nuclear scientist, gangsters, Fascists, hijackers and escaping Nazi sympathizers. Follett's plots are always fun but he is also known for his obligatory smut scenes with too much gratuitous (and often silly) detail.
https://www.instagram.com/p/BCn7EMIRt...
For long stretches it feels more like an awkward, rushed and frankly boring romance than the thriller I'd been led to expect.
And believe me, the gratuitous sex scenes are uniformly tepid.
You'll probably feel like you could do a much better job writing sex, or at least keep the eroticism intact.
(Others have made this point about proper 'bedroom' diction-- see Chris Rock's phone sex skit.)Beyond that, there seems to be an odd, conservative tone at work in all the scenes of the wartime couples.
Follett is patently nostalgic for the flying-boat days, but his moral position feels just as staid and trapped-in-the-past.
I loved the book, however it was not as suspenseful in the air as I thought it would be. Follett did a good job of the character development of everyone, would love a sequel. Another good Follett book that takes you in right from the beginning.
The master story teller strikes again. With just a plane crossing the Atlantic in 1939 as his place, he manages to successfully create a compelling tale which I couldn’t put down. All I question is the free sex that went on in this book. My mother’s era, I don’t believe many had sex without marriage as this book portrays. The twists and turns were riveting.
Interesting story!
Come afferma l'autore all'inizio del libro, si tratta di un immaginario ultimo volo prima che l'aereo più romantico di sempre venga sospeso a causa della guerra.Alcuni dei libri di Follett hanno raggiunto la prima posizione del New York Times, tra cui "Triplo", "Il Codice Rebecca", "Un letto di leoni"...
I gangster sono stati ingaggiati da Tom Luther, un uomo d'affari filo-nazista che ha il compito di impedire la fuga oltreoceano di uno scienziato ebreo.Leggendo la quarta di copertina si rimane quasi sorpresi e la mente subito corre, per chi è affezionato lettore di Follett dai primi libri, a "Il Codice Rebecca" o a "La cruna dell'ago", insomma ci si aspetta un mistery ambientato nella seconda guerra mondiale come ai bei vecchi tempi, solo che poi leggendo il romanzo ci si ritrova con la classica saga familiare degli ultimi libri, sebbene mascherata a dovere: la famiglia è rappresentata dai passeggeri del volo!
Kept me hooked from start to finish. Family drama mostly, a couple of romances tossed in, and the thrill of a journey that could be make or break for some of the characters.
The thriller/action part of the plot surrounds the lead engineer of the plane who is forced to sabotage it in order to save his wife who has been kidnapped in America.
Follett leaves the reasons for this unclear at first as well as who the kidnappers are but uses it to build the suspense.
This is a well-plotted novel; the suspense builds as we make our way through the story and we get to see events from several perspectives.
Mr Follett does a great job building his characters and even though there are quite a lot of them, it is easy to follow the action because we know them so well.
Não esperava a introdução da história tão passada fora do avião como foi, mas acabou por ser importante para a contextualização do enredo dentro do mesmo.
Com fins de capítulo espectaculares, que entrelaçam todas as personagens, tal como na outra obra que li, o autor impele-nos a não largar o livro e a dar mais um passo na intriga.Porém, nem sempre isto funciona bem.
Por isso mesmo, o fim revela-se algo agridoce - um final espectacular para personagens que acarinhamos e um simples "meh" e um interrogatório interno em relação às outras, visto que muito é deixado em aberto.

Telling the tale of the one final flight of the Boeing Clipper, crossing the Atlantic from Southampton to New York in various stages and getting more and more dramatic as each stint unfolds.Firstly you are introduced to all the various characters, and as always it doesn't feel like they could possibly have anything to do with each other.
But once onboard the plane and as a dastardly plot starts to unfold, they intertwine in fascinating and unexpected ways.
Mais um excelente livro ;)
Good thriller with mucho plot twists! Kept me reading most of the day.
The only good thing about the book were the descriptions of the clipper. It's a shame none of these planes survived.
