https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1258281.Art_Through_the_Ages_2
I read on screens badly so opted for the paperback version -- terrible choice on my part.
(But at least all in color.) Ebook version probably superior in several ways.
That isn't to say it actually *was* diverse; most of what's covered is extremely Western, for better or worse.
Still, a decent overview of Western art, at least, from the 1500s through modern era.
If this particular art history class had actually been taught by a professor instead of...whatever verb my class's professor was instigating (monitoring?), I might've really enjoyed the textbook (and course) as a jumping off point.
I enjoy reading about Art History, but I don't enjoy reading textbooks. This is a textbook. Regardless, I was happy with it until it gets into the last hundred years of art history and then much of the featured art is crap. Hardly art. Love reading about Da Vinci and Van Gogh.
Alternate Title: Let's Use Big Fancy Words to Describe Art without Saying Anything of True Merit!Alt
Now this is how a textbook should be written. The most entertaining, exciting, and educational textbook I've ever had to read. It tells a story while imparting knowledge. It gets you excited about all aspects of the subject. It doesn't repeat itself over and over. While there are some paragraph long sentences, comma use is always appropriate. You might have to re-read a chapter or two, but only because they were so interesting you blew through them in one second.
OK I haven't read many art history books, but I like reading this. Maybe it is the topic which makes it so enjoyable for me, but I think it is the writing as well. I have read some terribly written history books. This book I enjoy.
A later version of my Art History textbook. Thank goodness I don't have to read this one! (I refer to the pictures) While comprehensive in Gardners view of Art history there were no women... what?Like any interpretation of ART, I think that only the photos tell a kind of truth.
This was an annoying read. It was required for my college art classes though. I will probably never read it again.
thanks, Art History class for assigning this book because I am actually enjoying reading it.
introduction chapter 1 to 4
Art Survey II course textbook, Westfield State College, 1997
I'm reading this for my art class. I've had better art history textbooks...
good as usual
