https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19314.Ronia_the_Robber_s_Daughter
Two clans of robbers, enemies for as long as the two chiefs Mattis and Borka can remember, share a forest and a castle split in two by a giant lightning, and a common enemy in the knights of the crown.
Stubbornly, they refuse to return to their families until peace is made, and until they are allowed to be friends.In the end, Mattis reaches out to save his daughter's life, and the two clans are united under one chief.
The story of Ronja and Birk is similar to that of Romeo and Juliet - two children from hostile families are friends - and thank God, their parents reconcile themselves before the children go to their death, so that everything goes well In the world of robbers and goblins, is well advised with 'Ronja Räubertochter'. If you open this book, you will be faced with the fragrance of the forest ....
Koliko je Ronja kul?
I nije jedini kul lik u knjizi, naprotiv, Luvis je jedna od najkulijih (kuljih?) majki koje možete da zamislite, razbojničkih ili ne.
I sve je odmereno kako treba da se deca ne zaguše ni lirikom ni sentimentom ni surovošću života, ali da svega toga bude taman koliko je neophodno.
Što znači da će (view spoiler)[ romeo-i-julija situacija sa klincem iz protivničke bande da se razreši baš kako treba.
(hide spoiler)]A u ovom izdanju je ilustracije radio Đorđe Milović, i sjajne su, sveže, za mrvicu stripovske i za mrvicu više poetične, prepoznatljivo njegove a opet neće traumirati decu kao njegove strip-adaptacije Borisa Vijana (provereno).
This was probably my favorite book I read in 2011.
I have to warm up to the concept of the book and get used to the cover and think about what mood would be the best for a read.
A lot of elements of the story hit my favorite things, and I loved its brightness and ease.
But, sometimes she still is afraid.I don’t have anything deep to say about this book, but for me it had just the right combination of reality and fantasy, sadness and hope.
It has an unselfconscious wild girlness that I hope I’ve always loved.
http://io9.gizmodo.com/gillian-anders...So excited!
They realise that every kid grows up reading their books, and they gradually start to feel that they ought to be, you know, telling them something important rather than just entertaining them...So in this case we have Astrid Lindgren, who'd already written Pippi Långstrump, Emil I Lönneberga, Karlsson På Taket and several other timeless masterpieces.
And now, here's Ronja, who's the daughter of a robber king that lives in a castle in the forest.
But Ronja falls in love with the son of the rival robber king, and, oh well, read it for yourself.
Da muss man erst "alt" werden um die Geschichte rund um die Räubertochter Ronja lieben zu lernen. Der Kinderbuchklassiker ist wirklich niedlich, aber auch ein wenig spannend und auch traurig. Die Geschichte lebt natürlich von Ronja, die kühne, mutige und kluge Tochter eines Räuberhäuptlings. Ihre kleinen Abenteuer sind nicht hochdramatisch, aber für Kinder perfekt.Interessant wird es dann, als Ronja mit den Sohn des Feindes ihres Vaters Freundschaft schließt. Es ist ein bisschen wie Romeo und Julia für Kinder. :D
Hieno klassikkosatu, jota en muista aiemmin lukeneeni/kuulleeni. Silti tarina oli sellaisella ikiaikaisella tavalla jotenkin tuttu. Ihana luontokuvaus, vahvat naiset ja sellainen kivan rosoinen maailma. Ymmärrän, miksi tämä on monelle se lemppari.Lindgrenin sadut ovat vieneet mennessään niin, että jo uusi pino on kirjastosta haettuna.
Tämä se vain jaksaa riemastuttaa yhä uudestaan. Satu on kestänyt hyvin aikaa ja aikuinen löytää tästä aivan uusia tasoja.Kuuntelin äänikirjana ja Ritva Vepsän luenta on vallan mahtavaa kuunneltavaa. Eläytymistä juuri sopivasti, etenkin männiäiskohdissa, jotka olivat suosikkejani.Lämmin suositus ihan kaikille.
I think it really captures the tug of the "tween" years, when children want to be more independent and begin to form their own ideas and wishes distinct from their parents, but also still yearn for that warmth and comfort and love and protection of being a child and having parents watch over you and assure you everything will be okay.
It is refreshing to see a book where the children learn that their parents aren't perfect, and that they should protect themselves from negative behaviors, but that even grown-ups can change for the better and still be lovable and needed.
Wundervoll, von Anfang bis Ende. Wer das verneint, kann sich zum Donnerdrummel scheren! :)
We weren't enjoying this, might go back to it later.
Virkelig fantastisk højtlæsningsbog til en snart-syvårig. Fine personskildringer, spænding og masser af stemning. En af de læseoplevelser fra barndommen der stadig holder ♥
When I had finished the previous book, a book translated from Swedish, J handed me this book, another book from Sweden.
Ronia is a wonderful character, full of life and exuberance, and her adventures in the forest just sparkle.
Her budding relationship with Birk feels very real, I think because the author did not opt to make it simple.
It's complicated, as is Ronia's relationship to her family.The characters in the book are not afraid to feel: the author gives them leave to gnash their teeth and throw things in anger, to wail and weep in sorrow, and leap and laugh with joy.
4 stars! I loved Astrid Lindgren’s stories as a child and I just couldn’t keep myself from reading her stories once again so many years later. And the most beautiful thing is they are still perfect. A strong book about friendship containing reflections on feud, gender, politics, the difficulties of letting go and growing up! I can’t wait to read all her other stories these next weeks.
مثل همه ی کارای دیگه ی لیندگرین خوب و سرشار از احساسات قوی. عشق به خانواده و طبیعت. توصیفات و زندگی خیره کننده ای که همیشه توصیف می کنه. در طبیعت و دور از زندگی شهری و غیره و غیرهبا این حال زیاد برام راضی ککنده نبود. اقتباس پسر میازاکی رو بشتر دوست داشتم
Auf jeden Fall habe ich aber den Film geliebt und konnte beim Lesen immer noch einige Teile mitsprechen.Überrascht hat mich dann doch ein wenig wie düster das Buch eigentlich ist, denn Astrid Lindgren verschönigt nichts.
Auch wenn sie eine Räubertochter ist, orientiert sich definitiv an den Idealen.Die Geschichte selbst hat von allem etwas, vor allem viel Abenteuer, was besonders für Kinder eine sehr spannende Angelegenheit ist.Es war toll wieder in diese Welt hineinzutauchen und alles noch einmal aus einer Erwachsenenperspektive wahrzunehmen.
This has been one of my favourite books ever since I first read it at around eight years of age.
I hadn't re-read it in at least five years, though, and was amazed at all its subtleties: it deals gently, but without pretense, with themes of gender, politics, death, and above all growing up -- the bond between parents and children, the difficulties of letting go, and of becoming your own person.
At the same time, it is a very enjoyable story of adventure and exploration; it has fantasy elements and a cast of likable, funny characters.Ronia ties with The Brothers Lionheart for my favourite Astrid Lindgren book.
I honestly can't remember if I've read this book before, but I have seen the movie and I know the story. Reading this was an experience I can only explain as the Danish word "hyggeligt". I felt so nice and cozy and nostalgic every time I picked it up. Reading about Ronja's forest and her relationship with her father Mattis and her best-friend Birk just made me so happy! This definitely won't be my last Lindgren.
Ale najskôr ju musel Mattis [otec] pred kadečím vystríhať."Pozor si dávaj na divožienky, chlpazlíkov a Borkových zbojníkov," zdôrazňoval."A ako spoznám, že sú to divožienky, chlpazlíci a Borkovi zbojníci?" spýtala sa Ronja."To spoznáš," odpovedla Mattis."Aha," povedala Ronja."A dávaj si pozor, aby si v lese nezablúdila," zdôrazňoval jej Mattis."Čo mám spraviť, keby som v lese zablúdila?" vypytovala sa Ronja."Nájdi si správny chodníček," povedal Mattis."Aha," povedala Ronja."A dávaj si pozor, aby si nespadla do potoka," poučoval ju Mattis."Čo mám spraviť, keby som spadla do potoka?" vyzvedala Ronja."Plávať," poradil jej Mattis."Aha," povedala Ronja."A dávaj si pozor, aby si nespadla do Čertovho hrtana," vystríhal ju Mattis.Mal tým na mysli priepasť, ktorá v prostriedku pretínala Mattisov hrad."Čo mám spraviť, keby som spadla do Čertovho hrtana?" spýtala sa Ronja."Potom už nič," povzdychol si Mattis a hneď za tým tak bolestne zakvílil, akoby mu strašný bôľ zovrel hruď."Aha," povedala Ronja, keď Mattis dokvílil.
The perfect story.
Really-- there are no flaws with this book.
Every character, every scene, every feeling is absolutely right.
I love Ronia.
I love Birk.
I love Matt and Lovis and Noddle-Pete and everyone.
This book made me laugh out loud and even brought tears to my eye.
I love the adventure and the cockiness and the love and the, well, everything!
She loves it too.
So, if you have a child aged 5-12, buy this book and read it to them.
If you do not, buy it and read it yourself anyway.
Everyone needs to own this book.
How I adored Ronja when I was a little kid. Tough, stubborn and so very, very cool (though I didn't use that word yet back then I believe).And what a magical world she lived in! How I longed to be there, scary as it sometimes was!Definitely one of my all-time favorites, and recommended for head-strong girls everywhere.
Voi Ronja! Tämä on ihana, kaunis ja puhutteleva lastenkirja, tätä en osaisi jättää lukematta jos vielä tämän vuoden jälkeen joskus eskariryhmää vedän.
Lasīju un raudāju. Visi grāmatas varoņi jūt īstas emocijas, un viņu dzīvēs tām ir vieta. Tām ir sākums un gals, un man skauž.
Като малка нямах навика да си дочитам книгите, затова и много детски класики са останали пренебрегнати от мен.
Това е и причината да знам първата глава на "Роня" (пък и на "Под игото") наизуст - започвала съм я много пъти и все съм спирала дотам.
Това лято обаче реших, че е време да си отметна от списъка за четене няколко книги от личната ми библиотека и така с героите на Астрид Линдгрен се намерихме отново.
И наистина, "Роня" е роман за много неща: за семейството, приятелството, любовта, детството, съзряването, загубата, оцеляването, самотата, тъгата и щастието.
"— Спершу скинь із себе мою линву, — сказала, підводячись Роня.
— Та після всього цього я, мабуть, однаково буду прив'язаний до тебе.
Без линви."У розділеному ударом блискавки замку не надто дружно проживають дві ватаги розбійників.
Добра й витончена повість про сміливу і свавільну, наче дике звірятко, Роню.
11-річна дівчинка не боїться виступити проти свого батька, грізного і вкрай запального ватажка розбійників, не раз рятує життя другу, цілісіньке літо живе в печері у хащах...
Мама Роні Ловіса — також шикарна героїня, не дасть собі в кашу наплювати:"Якщо в тебе в кожусі завелися воші, то хоч би ти скільки лежав і скиглив, нічого не допоможе.
Դե, հեքիաթ, արկածներ, դպրոցական միջին տարիքի համար, նրանք կհավանեն, կարծում եմ, միգուցե և սիրեն հերոսներին։ Իսկը ամառային ընթերցանություն, խրատական պահերով՝ էրեխեք, ապրեք ձեր կյանքով, ձեր ծնողներին սիրեք, բայց ապրեք ինչպես դուք ինքներդ եք ուզում, չարաճճի եղեք, դու որոշեք, սիրեք։Թարգմանություն հարթոտ էր, խմբագիրը կարող էր, իհարկե, մի քիչ էլ աշխատել։ Չնայած էլեկտրոնային տարբերակում, համեմատվել է այլ լեզուներով թարգմանությունների հետ ու վերանայվել։Էլեկտրոնային տարբերակը, արդեն։
"How good it was to love someone so much that there was no need to fear even the most difficult thing."Deep in an enchanted forest lives Ronia in her father's fortress - chieftain of Matt's robbers. Much loved by her parents and robbers alike, she grows up being doted upon and loving the wild enchanted forest around her. But then Ronia meets Birk - the son of her father's worst enemy. The two form a close friendship which must be kept a secret if they are to keep seeing each other.Ronia, The Ro
"How good it was to love someone so much that there was no need to fear even the most difficult thing."Deep in an enchanted forest lives Ronia in her father's fortress - chieftain of Matt's robbers.
The ties between Ronia and her parents, especially her father Matt, are shown in such a loving way - I can't think of a dearer father-daughter relationship in any other story I've come across before.
A good book about an independent and strong headed little girl, reading to break the rules to have fun with her friend.Ronya (I'll use the French spelling for the names) is the daughter of Mattis, a brigand.
On day, Ronya meets Rik, the son of Matthis' sworn enemy and of course nobody approves this new friendship.As usual, the story was pleasant, plunging the young reader in a period when brigands existed, people lived in castles and when having fun was summarized by robbing people, eating, singing and wandering in the woods.
This was pure fun! A rollicking adventure in Sweden with Ronia and her family of robbers. Since I recently finished Kristin Lavransdatter it often felt like a children’s version of that time of medieval Scandinavia. They lived in a stone hall, had a high seat, clothes were shifts with tunics, and they skied everywhere in the winter. I listened to this one with my middle girls (Bella 11 & Meri 12) while we did a puzzle. We love Astrid Lindgren!
