https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28434.JR
An alternate meaning of the two huge letters on the book’s cover could be ‘Jabbering Ruck’, since the novel is mostly dialogue and, make no mistake, every single person – down-on-their-luck men, flower-loving women, corporate business-types, school administrators, ticket takers, school kids, old ladies – do not possess the patience or capacity to hear one another out.
And then this problem came up over money, instead of paying Father Ira gave him an old violin and he took it down to the barn to try to learn to play it.
I don't know if it is because writers like Pynchon, Coover and Barth had staked out some of the territory for him, or if he just grew more comfortable, more angry, more something in the twenty years he hid from writing novels in corporate America, but whatever happened he produced a capital em fucking Masterpiece.
If anything I'd recommend most people I know not to read this because I don't think they would have the patience to let the book unfold on it's own terms (this is the condition that I imagine one must have to read Finnegans Wake, I believe Joyce is an able writer (genius) who may make things difficult but not guide one wrong.
I love this grubby child persistent child! I feel as if he is someone that I know. Not that any of the large cast of characters gets short shrift in floating opera. But, the reader doesn't miss a scene. It reminded me of reading Robertson Davies and John Dos Passos although darker and less mythical than Davies and more of a micro view than Dos Passos. —Right. You mention education and they grab for their wallets. Now here’s thirty-two thousand six hundred and seventy for blacktopping the parking
Not that any of the large cast of characters gets short shrift in floating opera.
Now here’s thirty-two thousand six hundred and seventy for blacktopping the parking lot over to the tv studio.—That’s the only bid that came in.—And there’s this twelve thousand dollars item for books.—That’s supposed to be twelve hundred, the twelve thousand should be paper towels.
Besides, there’s already that bequest for the library.—Did it say books in so many words?
No. It’s just a bequest for the library.—Use it for a pegboard.
You need a pegboard in a library.
Books you don’t know what you’re getting into.
You listening?BURGER MEAL:Dialogical MasqueradeYes, this novel consists mainly of dialogue, apart from the occasional (and usually beautiful) interstitial bits, some of which I've extracted and tried to poeticise below.But then, if you were masked (or closed your eyes) the whole time while you experienced a play or a film or a TV show, you might say the same.The challenge is not to be deterred by the apparent novelty of this narrative device.
Gaddis took 20 years to write this novel, during which time he worked at the highest levels of business and saw what was really going on.
If there were a welcoming mass public for books like this, a public able to appreciate its beautiful difficulty and astonishing imagination, we wouldn't live in the sort of world so in need of savage satirical critique in the first place.” -Lee Konstantinou~~That quote is probably the best summa I’ve come across concerning J R, it’s from this LARB review that is most certainly worth your time and attention, even if you are unfamiliar with this book or Gaddis:http://lareviewofbooks.org/review/too...So what do I think?
There are no transitions in this book, no real breaks, just sudden grinding shifts through time and location, kind of similar to the perpetual roving camera in Richard Linklater's 'Slackers', but rendered with gorgeous, almost biblical descriptions of phones ringing and trees swaying.Much like Gaddis's first, even larger novel, The Recognitions, J R is, broadly speaking, concerned with the increasingly commercial nature of our society.
Almost the entire book is ceaseless dialogue, not even stopping for quotation marks or even identifying who's talking.
But there's also a lot of talk about money.
Money talks.
Long monologues or one-sided phone conversations about business deals, transactions, where money is the dominant, deciding role in a person's life.
There's a lot of talk about how mass production has taken the meaning out of art, lifted straight from Walter Benjamin.
There's talk about the random, almost cruel behavior of financial capital, how it decides who lives and dies.
The dialogue lives and flows, and the characters suffer and lapse into dramatic searching monologues.
Besides, if I rate it as five now, I can always downgrade it later, after reading The Recognitions and use the carry-forward star loss to offset the capital gains on my outstanding shares of stars.
I read somewhere online (yes there it is GD Paris Review) that Gaddis said the secret to reading J R was "it was my hope -- for many readers it worked, for others it did not -- that having made some effort they would not read too agonizedly slowly and carefully, trying to figure out who is talking and so forth.
It was the flow that I wanted, for the readers to read and be swept along -- to participate.
«Por qué la gente infringe las leyes para coger todo lo que pueden si siempre hay alguna ley con la que puedes ser legal y cogerlo todo de todas formas». Quería leer este libro antes de ir con la considerada mejor obra de Gaddis, Los reconocimientos. Con Jota Erre esperaba algo que me permitiera entrar en la narrativa de Gaddis y no sorprenderme con nada que pudiera aparecer en Los reconocimientos. Pero cuando ya llevaba más de 100 páginas dentro de Jota Erre supe que este libro no era ninguna
Pero cuando ya llevaba más de 100 páginas dentro de Jota Erre supe que este libro no era ninguna introducción a Gaddis ni mucho menos, más bien todo lo contrario: pareciera que Gaddis no solo escribió una Gran Novela, sino que escribió dos.Jota Erre está conformado casi completamente por diálogos (podría ser en un 98 %).
Simplemente hacen ruido para dotar de algún sonido al mundo.Claramente, ante ese recurso de los diálogos se hace bastante difícil seguirle el ritmo a Jota Erre, y más si Gaddis, para complicar un poco más las cosas, no dice quién es el que está hablando.
I get so scared some days over bills that a little of J.R.'s blindness would probably help me sleep better.I identified with Amy in the café when she snaps over picking on the little old man who runs the place who tries so hard.
You're tired of hearing about how your husband could have been everything that he needed to want to be when he grew up if he only didn't have a wife and kid to take care of.
It's not losing your soul when you have to try so damned hard all of the time.
I've now read three articles (two of them introductions to Gaddis' own books) on this author that concern the purported difficulty of his work: one by Rick Moody, one by Jonathan Franzen, and my personal favorite, William H.
Rick Moody wants us to believe that this, widely seen as one of the hardest novels ever written, is actually a fun time, and he's not too far off the mark.
Franzen wants us to believe that reading Gaddis is a brain-destroyingly difficult task, fit only for the bravest of readers, and he's not too far off the mark, either.
Hence he can reveal the real ethos of business as he goes along, without commentary but just the way it is.Gaddis uses an innovative technique to keep the action going that takes a bit of acclimatisation but is well worth the reader's effort.
The busyness of business.Gaddis's point I think is the essential puerility of the corporate rat-race.
It is a game played by children who, like Donald Trump, may have passed through puberty some time ago.
A dozen years after JR was published, that would be in 1987, someone, possibly Gaddis but I can't confirm it, wrote a supplemental piece entitled JR Goes to Washington.
Because, really, that’s how Gaddis wanted it – he wanted to capture the chaos and the noise and the overwhelming tumult of where are culture was moving, and had wanted the reader to be engulfed by it.The reason I would say this book is damn near as essential as The Recognitions, and should be held up as a masterpiece of American Literature (or, really, just Literature in general) is that it can be read both ways.
The brilliance of this novel is in how much Gaddis manages to communicate given the constraints of the structure.
It is incredibly well structured and cohesive, and its clear that it has been carefully planned and painstakingly polished over the decades that Gaddis spent writing it.But JR is such a perfect realisation of its own premises that its shortcomings clearly expose the limitations of its chosen style, and for this reason it struggles as a work which is to be read.

JR is simply loads of fun.
Don't fall for the Franzen trashtalk about Gaddis being "Mr Difficult." Just fun.
[NEW]--A conversation apropos the Dalkey reissue of JR regarding Gaddis, JR, and Difficulty at Open Letters Monthly.Gaddis Annotations is all you'll need to keep yourself oriented to scene and character.
Don't let that unattributed dialogue scare you off -- Gaddis has the talent to individuate each of his characters and you won't have to bother reading a bunch of "he said .
and then she said.
and he exclaimed."Apr 6 2012 review by Len Gutkin at Bookforum on the occasion of the Dalkey Archive release.
“The function of this school is custodial.
It's here to keep these kids off the streets until the girls are big enough to get pregnant and the boys are old enough to go out and hold up a gas station, it's strictly custodial and the rest is plumbing.”And in this milieu of intellectual vacuum people have no time to live – they just play roles in an endless money soap opera.
A floating POV with only the dialogue to alert you to scene changes and character entrances/exits.
In other words, a migraine dressed as a novel.
The title character, a sixth grader with a preternatural head for business, is refreshingly believeable in a stammering, booger-eating way - unlike so many other books lately where the eleven year old talks and acts like he's thirty.
Along the way Gaddis lets about a hundred characters eviscerate themselves with their own words: teachers and school administrators, lawyers, PR men, retired generals, would-be writers, hippy chicks - all these idiots who get sucked up in the vortex of JR's whirling ambition.
An essential, a masterwork: uproarious yet profoundly troubling, syllable-perfect in its rendering of voices both adolescent and doddering, and gathering a vital and thunderous narrative force though it features a cast and a technique that risks utter confusion.
Indeed, confusion is one of the core themes here, spiritual confusion, as Gaddis here looms up like a recording angel of late-20th Century materialist culture.
He gets the entire culture, yes, though his plot never moves beyond a middle school in working-class Long Island, a few offices and apartments in Manhattan, and the commuter lines between the two.
I have long been struck by the irony that the most avid readers of literary novels seem to have been virtually ignored by American publishers who cater to the mainstream.
The style of the novel is based upon stream-of-voice: it's akin to walking down 5th Avenue and overhearing parts of conversations of passersby.
Like many great 20th century novels JR does appear incomprehensible at the outset until the reader discovers a roadmap to navigate this vast stream of voices.
If you are a serious reader of literary novels, then you owe it to yourself to read Gaddis.
Despite it being entirely in dialogue (well almost), and despite the book feeling at first as though it may not be able to create a fully formed 3D whole person, the book ends up brimming and overflowing with complex characters searching for meaning and purpose or else for money and success and all being stymied by each other (often unknowingly) or by the very system they are working in / creating.Franzen was wrong about this novel.
I don't know what is wrong with him if he can't take the fucking time to read it.This book reminded me a lot of Infinite Jest.
at the end when people were screaming about shale oil in alaska and canada and how the government needs to bail out this here bank and this here other hedge fund i almost had a panic attack.the other parts of the book are like, yelling about debentures or something.
so i can, like, go to the hottest cafe in SOMA and say to people well holy shit i mean met this really neat guy from redwood city who's making this really neat app about going green with long futures on carbon debellies, i mean debentures., or whatever.
“Is not the most erotic portion of a body where the garment gapes?” (9, Barthes) Then, there was this a couple pages later, “And yet, it is the very rhythm of what is read and not read that creates the pleasures of the great narratives.” (11, Barthes)So yeah, what kept me drawn to this book (because it definitely wasn’t an emotional connection) was what was missing in opposition to what was there.
I guess what I recognized, what I connected with, was the lack; that is, what wasn’t in the book, and what I as a reader had to bring to it: time, attention, references, experience, often pain, etc.
A. is the slice of a continent.
A. is a group of holding companies, some aggregations of trade unions, a set of laws bound in calf, a radio network, a chain of moving picture theaters, a column of stockquotations rubbed out and written in by a Western Union boy on a blackboard, a public-library full of old newspapers and dogeared historybooks with protests scrawled on the margins in pencil.
A. is the world's greatest rivervalley fringed with mountains and hills, U.
A. is the letters at the end of an address when you are away from home.
Like nothing I've ever read before. At first I wondered where it was going and what the hell it was about, but it earns every page and after finishing it, finally, my first thought was that I needed to read it again in a year or so to catch all the things I missed. Audiobook performance is excellent, adds to the enjoyment of the voice of the Gaddis' work.
The humor is strained, except for a few witty puns it’s all highly contrived slapstick, and Gaddis has a tendency to repeat any humorous verbal effect multiple times till it becomes tedious, even if it was funny in the first place.
Yet, in spite of these tiresome negatives, Gaddis was still on to something timely: junk culture and its effect on human relationships and human creativity.
And his prose savant mastery of junk language is impressive: it’s just not really worth the candle: These days we’re way past his minor revelation, gotten by diligently plowing through 700+ pages worth of prose that hammers on the nerves like a mallet, that American capitalism is built on Silly Sand™.
Among the best I've ever read. Magnificent. Hilarious. Savage. Can't stop marveling... As good as it gets... So many hilarious and anguishing motifs within DFW's Infinite Jest now seem to me to be perfect and just and right and true little valentines to William Gaddis... and what a heartening thought!
I called magic mountain on 440 (I'm calling this on 413 I wanted to give him another 50 pages but the fact is I am worried first that I will never finish and second that it will hurt his star rating.
This book helped me to understand why I stopped reading magic mountain.
It feels almost like it's starting over.
If this book ended on page 300 I would have given it 4 stars.
If I read to page 726 it is a 90% chance it would get 2 stars because I would have been annoyed with stringing the book out after the "newness had worn off".
So I mean do what you're supposed to and everybody gets..."Gaddis very effectively pulls back the curtain to reveal the banter, the expectations,, the heartbeat of corporate enterprise.
That's where government must step in with regulation but this can only be effective if our representatives are not dependent on the very entities they are regulating for their campaign money.
As long as campaign finance is successfully subverted by rulings like Citizens United we can expect more of the same.
Like yeah Gaddis is Mr. Difficult and highly technical but if the reader focuses too much on that aspect they miss some truly hilarious, screwball moments.
The character relations were hard to keep track of just because there are so many of them.
I feel like I was supposed to empathize more with Eigen because he's kind of the character trying to hold it all together while it's disasterously falling apart.
In some ways I suspect that Eigen is a Gaddis doppleganger: wrote an important book at one time, took a job with big business, has trouble with the wife.
