https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14250.Pigs_in_Heaven
In fact, of the three books of hers I have read now, that is probably my least favorite.
And the mark of a truly successful book is one in which I do not find myself wanting to edit as I read.
That is not something she achieved with The Poisonwood Bible--I badly wanted to edit the ending of that novel--but Pigs in Heaven kept me page-turning relentlessly without one critique, in spite of my ability to predict the ending.Now there was a real accomplishment, because I hate to predict endings.
Excellent.The story of a Cherokee child's adoptive mother's struggles to keep her daughter when the Nation wants the girl back.
No real villains here except the conflicting needs of multiple characters and for the sad but resourceful history.
Students of history can see similarities between the Cherokee and Scotch/Irish who ironically and tragically supplanted them in the Appalachians.
A fundamentally good book: a good story told by a good storyteller.*** It is a component of a great book that you will think about it again, even years later.
There is a scene where the little girl sees her grandfather again after years that still gives me goosebumps.
Great book.
I just couldn't get into this continuation of Taylor and Turtle's story despite how much I loved meeting them in The Bean Trees.
Taylor must choose between giving up the daughter she loves and knowing that she can't provide Turtle with the culture she is entitled to.Pigs in Heaven lacked the charm and heart that The Bean Trees had; I understand that Taylor didn't want to lose Turtle but her actions just didn't jibe with the headstrong and independent personality that was developed in the first book, her actions definitely weren't in the best interest for Turtle, and it was a bit melodramatic for me.
The novel continues the story of the Cherokee child named "Turtle" and her adoptive mother Taylor Greer.
In this sequel, we find Turtle and Taylor living together in Tucson along with Taylor's boyfriend, a life that is not quite what would be called the most perfect of environments.
I was glued to the book, wanting to know whether Taylor gets to keep Turtle, or is told to hand over the child to the Cherokee Nation.Many important issues are brought up in PIGS IN HEAVEN.
Turtle was completely happy with Taylor, and she did not know any other mother or life.
Every character who passed through the pages was there to reinforce the "white man selfish" "Cherokee poor, but very love family" stereotype that the book beat you over the head with, page after page.
The white guy the protagonist has a date with brings one apple on a picnic for three.
There are 2 decent white guys in this book: they're both in wheelchairs.
Apparently, if you want to be saved from the curse and stigma of being white, you just need to acquire a handicap that requires a wheelchair.
I'm not sure what to think of this continuation of The Bean Trees.
I still love her style of writing and I think that is the only thing that kept me moving through the book.
The big downfall is that I didn't care for the story...in The Bean Trees, the main character, Taylor, finds a three year old American Indian child in her car as she is driving cross country.
I’m not sure I’d recommend this one except that it is a quick and easy read…and a continuation of a story you may have already started.
So the story is about a Cherokee child, Turtle, who became famous after appearing on Oprah Winfrey Show.
But Taylor had come to love Turtle as her own.
Taylor is scared of what if things repeat themselves and Turtle again end up being abused.
I really felt that Oprah thing was over the board, then someone making the connection between Turtle and the lost child was flimsy.
While reading the book I felt like I was reading three different stories, while two I liked and the third one didn't make any sense to me.
This is a decent book with good story and characters.
The audiobook is read by C J Crit, the same person who read The Bean Trees audiobook.
That continuity was nice - it really felt like volumes one and two of the Taylor & Turtle chronicles.
While I was relieved to have more of Turtle's story, and feel some kind of resolution of their family's story, I can readily admit that I preferred The Bean Trees, although only a smidge.
BT felt more like an unexpected gift, unwrapped carefully and totally surprising.
Barbara Kingsolver writes sentences like Storm clouds with high pompadours have congregated on the western horizon offering the hope of cooler weather, but only the hope.
This centers on the question of what defines a family?
A horribly abused and orphaned Cherokee child is given to a stranger passing through a parking lot, and years later, the adoption is called into question.
The Cherokee Nation must approve all adoptions of Cherokee children to non-Cherokee parents.
The adoptive mother who has loved and healed this child, or the nation that understands her history?
It seems an obvious choice at first, but the answers seem less clear as we see more from the perspective of the young Cherokee lawyer pursuing the case.
You really come to question what is actually best for this child.
Legally it’s documented that Turtle’s birth parents willingly gave her to Taylor, so should we be at all surprised when a Cherokee lawyer shows up at Taylor’s door, demanding she give her daughter back to the Cherokee tribe?
Then to make matters even better, Taylor immediately uproots her six year old daughter to take her from everything she’s ever known and hide out in some far-away city to avoid detection.
I was very amused by the fact that Turtle was going to be taken away to live a better life with her tribe, and to prove them wrong Taylor uproots the kid to live in the worst sort of poverty the child has ever known.
A sequel to The Bean Trees and I actually liked it better which is rare for me.
The story centers around Taylor's illegal adoption of Turtle and the Cherokee nations attempt to get Turtle back.
Barbara Kingsolver really takes you into the heart of her story.
I also liked the exploration of what makes a family and how people need other people to survive.(minus a star for some rough language and a weird random scene with Jax in the middle, but then I had to give another star back because it is just so good.)
By the time she wrote her first novel, the beloved The Bean Trees, it’s clear that Kingsolver was already deeply invested in social justice issues.
After a visit from Annawake, Taylor panics and takes off with Turtle, but her mother, Alice – just out of a brief and unsatisfying marriage – takes a different tack, going to stay with a relative on tribal lands in hopes of amicably resolving the problem and getting to know Turtle’s extended family.I actually liked this book better than The Bean Trees; Kingsolver has clearly matured as an author.
Taylor and her adopted Cherokee daughter Turtle are back, three years later.
Unfortunately, a lawyer from the Cherokee Nation saw Turtle on Oprah and threatened to disrupt Taylor and Turtle's happy life together.I was so disappointed.
Instead of being the fleshed-out characters from The Bean Trees, Taylor and Turtle are both two-dimensional characters whose sole purpose is to provide some semblance of plot between yammering on about The Point.
And I'm annoyed that Barbara Kingsolver stole characters from a book I loved in order to pontificate for 350 pages about how the Cherokee Nation has been mistreated and unfairly judged.
I am just floored about how good Kingsolver's early books are.
Very surprised at how different the mood is from her later books, which heretofore were the only ones I was familiar with.
Pigs in Heaven definitely deserves a star more than Poisonwood Bible or Flight Behavior, therefore I am going back to take a star off those two, even though I was very impressed at the time I read them.
Pigs in Heaven was loaned to me, but now I will have to have my own copy so that I can go back and underline Kingsolver's wonderful turns of phrases.
Basic Summary: This picks up 3 years after the conclusion of The Bean Trees, when Turtle (who was thrust upon Taylor at a bar on the side of the road in Oklahoma) has fully settled into life with her Non-Indian mother in Arizona.
Annawake instantly knows that Turtle is Cherokee and begins finding a way to have her returned to the tribe where, Annawake feels, she best belongs.
I had tears in my eyes by the end of the book, eagerly devouring each page -- anxious to find out what would happen to Turtle.
436.I read Kingsolver's Poisonwood Bible many years ago, before it became an Oprah book and I loved it.
So, I purchased Pigs in Heaven and let it languish on my shelves for so many years that the pages turned yellow and it acquired that musty book smell that I adore.
I am sure I would have let it languish there a few more years if I were not challenged to read it.Pigs in Heaven is the sequel to Kingsolver's The Bean Trees and as I have read that book and can vouch for Pigs in Heaven ability to stand on its own.
Some suspension of disbelief (convoluted plot devices) was required and some readers won't be happy with the "discrimination" in the books (Cherokee good, white bad).
I also liked how the author fleshed Taylor's character.
While The Bean Trees portrayed Taylor as almost a super woman, not flinching despite any adversities, this book showed that she's not perfect.
It would be like trying to write Uncle Tom's Cabin without putting prejudiced, antagonistic white people.
There were enough good white people in the book and if the author didn't see fit to put enough bad Cherokee to create a perfect balance, I don't really mind.
The sequel to The Bean Trees. The story starts three years later, and you get to find out what ultimately happens to Taylor and Turtle and Taylor's mother Alice. A little longer and more complicated than The Bean Trees, but just as enjoyable to read. I love all the interesting, unique characters and the way she weaves all of their lives together.I'm a contemporary woman, devoted to the single life, but I just might consider marrying a man who would do that to his television for me! :)
I've loved watching Kingsolver's work evolve, though I certainly haven't read her in chronological order. I read Poisonwood, then Prodigal Summer, then her year of local eating before stumbling on Bean Trees and Pigs in Heaven. This sequel to The Bean Trees lives up to the original, maintaining a good, interesting pace, including some beautiful and poignant turns of phrase, and involving characters I recognize or want to know because they feel so real. From the beginning, Kingsolver has been a master of parallel themes and making sweet, real connections between the sacred and the mundane.
This was the first Barbara Kingsolver I ever read.
I had never heard of her, and I was 14, when the public library was having a discard sale.
Maybe this started my love of Kingsolver...
I think what really drew me in at that point was the story of a mother and a child who were trying to find themselves - and felt somewhat lost.
I think I was feeling that way when I was 14 - I think most people feel lost when they're 14.
Either way, it's a great read - one of those afghan by the fire kinds, you know?
I love Kingsolver's writing, and I liked Taylor and Turtle a lot, but to me, this added nothing to their story, and was almost too melodramatic.
Usually, Kingsolver's writing is subtle, brilliant, and beautiful, but this book came across as trying too hard to be poetic and emotional.I couldn't relate to the new characters at all, and even Taylor grated on me, when I enjoyed her in The Bean Trees.
I love native cultures, and learning about them, and the story of Turtle and her adoption, and coming back to her Cherokee culture is quite beautiful, but sadly, I suggest that, if you enjoyed The Bean Trees, skip this.
Taylor is a young woman living in Tuscon with her adopted Cherokee daughter Turtle and boyfriend Jax. While on vacation, Turtle sees an accident and is instrumental in getting the authorities to rescue the victim.
Another negative aspect of the novel was Kingslover's propensity to idolize and even trivialize the poverty that exists within the Cherokee Nation's community, as if these individuals are living in a utopia which is far from the truth on many reservations - in this novel, drug abuse, alcoholism, unemployment, obesity, etc are either absent or only barely discussed.
This early Kingsolver displays a literary prowess virtually unmatched by any other living author.
The story, of a woman fighting to keep her illegally adopted daughter and the efforts of a native American lawyer to reintegrate a lost member of her tribe, is heart-wrenching and beautifully written.
Ms. Kingsolver has long been a favorite, and only solidifies her rank as one of the best writers in American literature today with each book this reader gets his hands on.
And through it all, this reader learned a great deal about the reality of life in the tribe.
This is the sequel to The Bean Trees, but it stands alone.
The story concerns a cherokee child being raised outside her tribe after being given away.
All the characters are portrayed with great sympathy and are entirely believeable.
The conflict centres around whether Turtle (the child) is better off with her adopted mother; whom she adores or with her tribe and heritage.
The story is so well written that both sides arguments are plausible and passionately argued.
The resolution is satisfying and illuminating.
The main negative is that I would have liked more and felt it could have been a much longer book without losing anything; but maybe I'm being greedy.
Not her again...why have I tortured my self with so many Barbara Kingsolver books?
This is not really a review.
Just a few comments on why I’m closing the book for now incomplete.
I have in past enjoyed this authors writing style.
I’ve enjoyed the previous books I’ve read immensely.
This book I could tell from the beginning was different.
I tried.
I pushed.
In the end it couldn’t keep my attention and I’m putting it down on page 170.
The characters kind of jumped around.
New ones were introduced.
New situations constantly popped up.
Maybe I’ll try again some day but when I put a book down I usually don’t.
I’m picking up another book.
More masterful narration by Kingsolver - so glad I continued reading Turtle and Taylor's story after The Bean Trees. The description makes it sound like it could be a bit sensationalistic with the appearance on the Oprah show, but it's not at all. Heartwarming, honest, and still so relevant.
Pigs in Heaven continues the story in which Taylor Greer became a “foster mother” to a three year-old Cherokee Indian girl, whom she names Turtle, because the girl holds her hand so tightly that, like a snapping turtle, she won’t let go “until she hears thunder.” Turtle was abused by her mother’s boyfriend, both sexually and physically, orphaned by her mother’s suicide, and abandoned by her mother’s sister (who gave the child to Taylor at a restaurant to keep the girl from more harm).
I started picturing the characters and happenings in my head, and was soon sucked into the vortex.This is actually book 2, but not reading book 1 hasn't been a deterrent as it can be read as a standalone too.The setting is Heaven, Oklahoma.
Things start happening when Turtle becomes instrumental in reaching a simple minded man, acquires national popularity and a Cherokee Indian lawyer starts fighting for Turtle to be included in their communiy as she feels Turtle will lose her heritage if bought up by white mother.More than the story, it is the detailed descriptions, folk tales and carefully woven minutiae of day to day life that fascinated me.
I remember that someone recommended Bean Tree to M4 as an easy read when she was getting over her pneumonia.
And I read it quick but wasn't soooo impressed.This one was similar, that there is some sensationalism and lo and behold the happy ending as foreseen in disc 4 (of nine?
Something I really did not like is that a few times the conversation or quirks just did not ring true.
Like, for instance, she describes the little girl's overalls getting too small by being too short and a little tight in the waist.
I just don't remember any my kids' overalls getting tight in the waist.
