https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56495.The_Purpose_Driven_Life
Simply put....there is no worldly method to achieving a closer walk with God. It will take time reading God's Word and praying.
The Purpose Driven Life and other similar series attempt to provide a short-cut and may encourage new believers to think that once they have achieved the twelve steps they can cease striving after God. I gave up on this book half way through and threw it away as I felt as if it was a deception.
Any book that causes people to take their eyes off God and onto a man made method is a danger.
At its best, this book is filled with porous theology that is modestly helpful to someone who has no knowledge of Christianity whatsoever.
At its worst, Warren mangles scripture to fit his own agenda (40 days to find purpose in your life) and promotes personal experience over the truth found in scripture.This book is symptomatic of feel-good consumerized Christianity so prevalent in America today.
Finding your purpose in life takes far longer than 40 days and it cannot be easily summarized (besides the obvious - to love and worship God).
"It's not about you."Changed my life.I took Warren's challenge and found that I was not where I should have been. Paradoxically, I was at that time employed by a Christian ministry highly regarded by many (and vilified by some), but I knew--I knew--that wasn't where I was supposed to be. So, I quit my job and sought a new direction. Not there yet by a long shot, but thanks to Rick Warren I'm on my way.
Being bound to consequences and surrendering to chaos are two quite different things (unless one has some quantum physics approach that reconciles them).In Warren's worldview, people are pawns who unknowingly carry out a plan that is beyond their comprehension.
For example, if God creates everything about us, then God must have created heterosexual attraction, as he assumes here: "You can be attracted or even aroused without choosing to sin by lusting.
Warren says, "Of course, sincerity alone is not enough [in worship]; you can be sincerely wrong." (p.
The first half of the book assumes belief in God, in the immortality of the soul, and in the Christian version of the Bible.
You are merely a clay pot shaped by a potter p.75 " Or the chapters titles "Thinking like a Servant " and "How Real Servants Act".For me, the most revolting thing about the book came on p.80 and this theme was repeated throughout the book "Surrendered people obey God's word even if it doesn't make sense." A few sentences before that Warren says "God would not waste the mind he gave you.
Only a fool, only someone who WANTS TO BE A SLAVE would get anything out of this book.
I find it curious that so many of my Christian friends are quick to criticize this book as being a "primer" of "Christianity 101" or an introduction to the Christian Faith and Life...
It is precisely and unashamedly what they criticize it for being: an introduction to Christianity.
It is an excellent introduction to Christianity, and I see why it is so well-received.
this book has offered many millions a path toward putting aside that intimidation and encouraging them to read their Bible and fellowship with a local body of believers.
Though, I would suggest to you that everything in this world that refers to itself as Christian is not necessarily so...Simply because a book includes Bible verses does not mean that those verses have anything to do with what the Word of God is commanding of those who would follow Him...
Both "megachurch" pastors publishing works that encourage their readers and followers to seek out their "divine purpose" so that they can "do more and be more" for Jesus...We are to repent of our sins, and trust in Christ - love God with all of our heart, mind, soul and strength - and love our neighbor as ourselves...
However, there were some bible passages and pointers that Warren reminded me of and the book had the usual positive impact to me so I still liked it.
Maybe when I am in the twilight years, I will read this book again and its the impact will be greater than it has on me now.There are also many quotable quotes that were able to inspire me there past few weeks.
But I do not know Warren's complete story so I'd rather keep my comments to myself.At some point in your life you should read this book.
And He smiles and laughs whenever we did something that is pleasing for Him. Thank you for also pointing out that we shouldn’t focus on ourselves, sulking in self-pity but rather, we should start helping other people by our God-given abilities and pleasing God.Reading your book made me realize that I’ve been living my life so wrong, always starting on the wrong line, always running and always focusing on my own ambitions.
I learned that I cannot fulfill God’s purposes in my life while focusing on my own plans.For years, I’m the type of person that has her doubts in God. And now, I realized that we cannot measure the greatness of God because He is infinite and we are only finite human beings.I hope a lot of people would read your book.
I believe, this book was written to change the life of the reader, it gives answers to every questions you're asking to GOD, telling you your purpose and that is to live for GOD. It clarifies everything. This is really an amazing book. Life-changing! :)
The whole point of the book is to supposedly show you *why* you are on this Earth.I've been doing a lot of soul-searching lately & I am hoping to gain some knowledge from reading this book.
"Self-help books often suggest that you try to discover the meaning & purpose of your life by looking within yourself, but Rick Warren says that is the *wrong* place to start.
I sort of "back slid" & just lived day to day like everyone else.I really hope to make some permanent spiritual changes from reading this book!
However, when the book immediately recommended The Purpose-Driving Journal, The Purpose-Driven Calendar, Daily Inspiration for the Purpose-Driven Life, not to mention The Purpose Driven Life DVD Study Guide and The Purpose-Driven Life - Commuter Edition, I began to sense that despite the authors' good intentions the book has become a commercial monster of (dare I say) Biblical proportions, and I couldn't bear to be a part of it.
But I'll have to remember to get myself a leather-bound $15.00 Purpose-Driven Life Deluxe Journal beforehand!!
And no matter how bad things are in our life, there is always something good we can thank God for.We can focus on our purposes, or we can focus on our problems.
If we focus on our problems, we're going intoself-centeredness,'which is my problem, my issues, my pain.' But one of the easiest ways to get rid of pain is to get our focus off yourself and ontoGod and others.We have to learn to deal with both the good and the bad of life.
Or am I going to be driven by God's purposes for my life?
Truthfully, I was enjoying this novel and it's meaningful messages.
So I thought I'd write a review of how it was going up until I went and freakin' lost the book.
Now, I enjoyed it immensely in the beginning, because as a devoted Catholic I don't mind religious messages and such, and this novel pretty much revolves around religion.
So if that isn't your thing - this probably isn't a book for you.
And I guess I'll never know until I find the book and finish it properly.Overall, it was a nice "pick me up" type of book.
I also enjoyed Warren's writing.
This book is a good road map to success in your spiritual life. The author teaches us of God's love and His purpoese for our lives and how to walk in faith twards that purpose. I recommend this book to all who are struggling with their beliefs or attitudes twards their Lord and tward their purpose.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
A friend gave me this book when I was going through a difficult time in my life and it was more than a great gift.
I read it at the right time and was very open to what it had to say and therefore feel that it changed me.
I still think back to that time being one of the catalysts for where I am at today and the book is a large part of that.
I think we all struggle at some point of wanting to know why we are here so it's a common dilemna when nothing seems to be going right in your life to want to ask GOD.
We read this in a weekly meeting at church and I was impressed with this book's simple wisdom.
around such a concept as was being presented and I felt that pushing through or on would have been a waste of time.
I still feeel that way about really good books.The first time I read this book, I pushed through without bringing myself to some of those hard decisions, things which would change the way I did things, should I do them.
Like if a non-christian will read it, he will be glad that he picked this book because he will be overwhelmed by love.But the book and the instructions there just seemed so commanding.
He is a loving God. In this book, I felt like God was so killjoy and he just want us to do the things that He wants and that will please Him. That if we follow our will, there will be doom and gloom.But in fairness to Rick Warren, he is very convincing but I am a Christian too.
Allows you to discover ' whose you really are' Without condemnation, but touches you lovingly and wants you to listen, be still and know that God is real and is just waiting for you to open your eyes to truth.I for one, have been transformed by this book and would suggest it to anyone, who is looking for answers.
Ultimately, the Bible is the number one book on truth.
Tests your commitment, to wanting to change and learn.I suggest this to anyone who is looking for.....' Why am I here' and ' What is my purpose'....Petula Hippolyte
I read this book thinking it would offer something deep and real about the purpose of God and the purposes of peoples in the world. But it offered little more than a worn-out run-a-round of the phrase "God has a purpose for you." I know why this book is so popular - it, like many others, offers Christians the idea that "God's purpose" for you has something to do with getting ahead in life and having more money. It's that lame "name it and claim it" mentality. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
I felt this was a wonderfully thought provoking book. I was surprised at the negative reviews posted below. I agree that you need more than 40 days, but I took this as a start for many to get real with how they are spending their time and are we serving where God is calling us. I have facilitated many Bible studies where we spend indepth time in scripture. We felt this was a welcome addition to our other studies and I plan to continue working on my Purpose. I would recommend to any who want to dig within themselves.
Like the Shack, not bad just not great. I think all the Purpose Driven Life merchandising bothered me some to...that could be, just me though.I am a Christian and I find that "popular" Christian books tend to have a "hard row to hoe" with me. I'd say, know what you believe and then read this. Works flow from a person's relationship with God, they do not bring it about.I'm not saying that this book claims they do, I'm just saying fit the contemporary read (any contemporary work)into grounded Christian belief, not the other way around.
when i thought my LIFE has no perfect meaning...
that i was going on with boring days of 24/7 !!
" PURPOSE DRIVEN LIFE " came into my LIFE with a KICK of knowing what is GOD'S purpose in my LIFE !!
i came to know that iam not a mistake but of GOD'S CHOOSEN ONE !!
HE choose me from the FAREST CORNER of this world & appointed me to BEAR FRUITS..
FRUITS that will ENDURES FOREVER & EVER...
AS YOU KNOW FOREVER IS A LONG TERM OF TIME !!
GOD BLESS U ABDUNTENTLY !!
I think I'm the only one in the world who hated this book. It annoyed the crap out of me. It lays out a canned formula to live. Turn-off for me.
I totally hated it.
It.A. I don't like any book that purports to speak on behalf of God and/or dictate what God thinks.
Unless God is sitting there in the room with us and saying, "Yup, I totally agree with Rick on that point", Rick Warren has no right to speak on God's behalf.B. It reeks of feel-good, pop-psychology-driven Christianity.
I too can probably find an appropriate bible verse to illustrate many things I think and believe, particularly if I use a plethora of translations.E. I'd rather people who consider themselves to be Christians actually sit down and read the Bible.
Author Warren refers to Biblical passages, shares relevant quotes, reveals practically gained insights from the life experiences of either himself or his family as well as from others, and “A Point To Ponder,” :A Verse To Remember,” “A Question to Consider” and “A Message to Hear.” A short powerful video that reinforces what is written in the book is also available concerning the topic or spiritual discipline of the day.During the 42 day spiritual journey contained in the book author Warren writes about such vitally important spiritual matters as The Reason For Everything, Worship, The Church (The Family of God); Christlikeness, Temptation, Serving God, Mission, The Envy Trap and the People-Pleaser Trap and much more.
Seeing Cassie's listing of this reminded me to add it to my books even though I never finished it.
I did read over 3/4th of it.
When I finished Retreat in Daily Life the St. Ignatian Spiritual Exercises I was looking for something to fill the gap and a few of the ladies who had been in my group were going to read this so I thought I'd join them in it.
None of us ever finished it; it was such a weak follow-up.
Maybe I would have liked it better or gotten more out of it at another time or under different circumstances, I don't know.
This had more of a preaching feel than I anticipated. I expected spiritual, felt more religious which makes it less accessible for me.
I've heard a lot of things about this book especially from my mom who made this her most favorite.
And now, thanks to a friend of my mom's, gave me a hardcover format of this book (which I'm very thankful for I think it deserves to be bought a copy).
I've read the preface and some introductory notes from the author recommending I shall read a chapter per day and join him in a journey of 40 days of finding purpose.
I'm really expecting a lot and I wish I'll be able to find out God's purpose for me.
I found this book both uplifting and comforting.
