https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27774596-after-you
When we've loved a book, we all have those questions: what will the characters do now?
(Cinderella II: Dreams Come True, anyone?)The result of Moyes trying to create a new episode of the story out of such questions is a book that feels like fanfiction, not a worthy sequel.This book attempts to tie up all loose ends in Lou's life.
Aside from the cringy portrayal of feminism, why is that even in there?I understand why fans of Me Before You will feel the need to read this book, but I just don't think it's necessary.
This book, however, is not Me Before You. So many people loved Lou from Me Before You and wanted to know what happened to her after the book ended.
I think you need to enter this story knowing that a book that you fall that deeply in love with is a rare thing and it is unlikely that a follow up story will evoke the same emotions.
I still love Lou's character and there are other character's in this book that I really enjoyed - Sam, Donna, Jake...
Please know if you intend to read it that this is not Lou and Will's story.
When I first heard that Me Before You would have a sequel I wondered how Jojo Moyes would be able to pull it off. It either could go fairly decently or be a big old hot mess. How do you top a book that was perfection to me? The author does have a bit at the beginning asking readers to not spoil anything for other readers and I will respect that, because just because a book doesn't work for me doesn't mean that everyone will feel that same way.It's just that....I felt so personally invested in th
The author does have a bit at the beginning asking readers to not spoil anything for other readers and I will respect that, because just because a book doesn't work for me doesn't mean that everyone will feel that same way.It's just that....I felt so personally invested in that first book.
I feel like JoJo Moyes should have had a best friend that just stopped her when she presented the idea of this book to her.
Booksource: Netgalley in exchange for review.
My friend Magdalena did enjoy this book.
She writes an amazing review at the link provided.
I think if you are expecting the emotional punch of the first book you are going to be sorely disappointed.I'm not ashamed to say that Me Before You had me up reading until very late at night and then crying my eyes out until very early the next morning.
It ended on a very powerful note, so any book that calls itself a "sequel" has to match that kind of power.
I didn't like this pushover Lou, and I barely recognized her from the previous book.Her life is wholly depressing.
If you're going to ground my heart into the pavement, there had better be a damn good reason for it.But ME BEFORE YOU was like Moyes thought to herself:1.
Then there were the new characters, like the members of Lou's weekly group therapy meeting, who we spent little time with, but who were all clear, individual personalities.
But AFTER YOU taught me that there are some hurts that sneak up on you, that are subconsciously recognized, even when experiencing them vicariously, and several times throughout the reading I found myself similarly effected as those I'd previously ridiculed.Then Treena would give Lou a look that I've received many times from my own sisters:
Bueno, bueno, este libro lo comencé hace mucho pero no me atrapo y porque sentía que no era la Louisa que ya conocíamos y lo deje por casi un mes pero decidí darle una oportunidad más y no me arrepiento, la verdad es que puede parecer un poco extraño leerlo al principio pero conforme vas avanzando te va atrapando y enamorando de nuevo esa escritura de Moyes y por supuesto a Lou, vemos lo que pasa después.
(view spoiler)[ Es obvio que después de que Will muriera Lou no iba a estar super feliz.
+ INFO
Louisa Clark returns!!! This novel is the sequel to “Me Before You”, so you need to read that book first to be able to engage into this one. BECAUSE LIFE DOESN’T END LIKE BOOKS I am truly glad that Jojo Moyes, the author, decided to write this sequel, since while Me Before You has a proper closure and you could be totally satisfied there, well, life doesn’t have “endings” like the books, and certainly while Will Traynor’s storyline ends there, Louisa Clark have a whole life in front of her and

I laughed, I cried, I laughed so hard that I cried, and then I sobbed ridiculously. This book has some of the best examples of female friendship I have ever seen in my life and I absolutely love Lily and Lou's friendship. So beautiful! The only problem I had was that near the end of the book something SUPER DRAMATIC happens that didn't need to happen and I was just like ugggggh.
After You is so different from Me Before You that it often felt like a standalone more than a sequel...which was both good and bad.
What did I think?: This book is far from a disappointment.
It's a fun, easy read and if you loved Me Before You, you'll likely enjoy this one too.
It did feel a bit rushed to fit in a second storyline almost, but since I enjoyed this story as well, I really didn't mind too much.
It's a fun story that will have those that loved it's previous book will love knowing what happens afterward.
I never thought it was a great idea to write a sequel to "Me Before You"...a 'favorite' book by many people....
To the extent Louisa was still grieving, it would have been more realistic if Jojo Moyes began this story about 6 or 7 months after his death.
The real power of "Me Before You", was *Will's* story anyway...so the author was going to need to generate almost a complete new story line for Louisa.
I saw potential .....( starting with Louisa's accident), .....not like Will's....but there was substance, in which to move the plot forward.
And surprisingly my favorite part/character was Sam, the one that I should've hate but instead I adored.I really don't know what to say about this book, probably I shouldn't have read it, but I couldn't resist.
But if you really want to read it, then read it like if this is a new story and you don't know who Will was, even if it's impossible, you have to forget everything you knew about them.Anyway, if you read it prepare your tissues, it's always Jojo Moyes ;)------------------------I'm gonna die.I'm happyand scaredbecause I can already imagine what's going to happen...
Well, the sequel After You feels like the epilogue I desperately needed!This story picks up about eighteen months after the ending of Me Before You. I’ll try to keep this as spoiler-free as possible, but to get straight to the point, Louisa is truly struggling with moving on from the events that unfolded with Will Traynor.
I wanted her to become not only the Louisa we knew and loved in Me Before You, but an even better version of that character as she worked hard to recover from a painful experience.
Its intention is to explain the “need” for a sequel, when, in actuality, it’s making the reader feel guilty for loving the first book.
(I didn’t even like the movie, which drew the most ire, and I still feel guilty!)Let me explain my love for Me Before You so I can carefully outline my qualms against this follow-up.
Me Before You is quite the love story - I don’t feel emotions very often, and I definitely felt something while reading that book.
Really, this felt like reading a wholly different world from the first book.Most of the story is Lou’s obsession with devotion to a sixteen year old miscreant misunderstood lovebug.
3 stars to Jojo Moyes's After You, the follow-up to Me Before You, which was a very popular book made into a movie earlier this year. The "After You" sequel is good (not as good), but for a different reason. Many folks complained about the need for this second book, and with the first one being made into a movie, it may have been a required follow-up as opposed to a story that yearned to be told... either case, I did enjoy it. Let's dive in... Story The book opens about 18 months after the first
Many folks complained about the need for this second book, and with the first one being made into a movie, it may have been a required follow-up as opposed to a story that yearned to be told...
and leaves you thinking "these people are real." And that's what I enjoy in a book.
Perhaps if I just picked up After You, I wouldn't have enjoyed it as much without knowing what happened to Lou in Book 1.
If you love the author's style, read After You. It's a well-written book and has a few good characters you will root for.
Lily, Will's daughter gets in contact with her and she wants to know everything about her deceased father, who she didn't know existed until he passed away.
Lily wants to get to know her grandparents, so she moves in with Louisa.
Meanwhile, Louisa gets to know Sam, the father of one of the boys in her moving on circle.
As she gets to know him, a new love story begins to grow in her life.
Nathan gets in contact with her and offers her a job in the USA.
So disappointing....Jojo Moyes is one of my top favorite authors, I have loved every book I have read of hers up until this one.
Me Before You is in my top five favorite books of all time, I still get emotional just thinking about that story.
Me Before You had my all time favorite epilogue, and I can say that re-reading that evoked more emotion from me than this entire sequel did.
Here's my spoilerish emotional outburst, or the rest of my review.(view spoiler)[My main issue with the book was that I couldn't stand the Lily story line.
Terminado y, lo siento, pero no lo voy a puntuar. Sinceramente, podría darle cinco estrellas a la historia, pero ¿qué hago con ese final?
کتاب«من پیش از تو» اگر از نظر محتوایی و ساختاری هیچ چیزی نداشت لااقل عنصر کشش در نوشتش خوب بکار گرفته شده بود تا مخاطب را تا پایان همراهی کند اما موقع خواندن این کتاب حس میکردم یک نفر نویسنده را به زور وادار کرده (احتمالن هم آن یک نفر کسی نبوده به جز خود نویسنده همراه با قلقلک های حساب بانکیش پس از فروش من پیش از تو!) ) تا بنشیند و برای کتابش ادامه بنویسد.
خواندن یا نخواندن این کتاب هیچ تاثیری بر زندگی هیچ کس نخواهد داشت.
Jojo Moyes had not planned to offer a follow up to the perfect Me Before You, but as Lou and Will were so wonderful to read about, we were lucky that she decided to write again for us.My thoughts are that this does not have to live up to its predecessor, it’s its own story, and I loved it.
Lou is unique and wonderful and her continuing journey was a joy to read about.
Things did fall neatly into place at times throughout, but I was happy this was the case.
I gazed around me, like someone suddenly handed clear glasses, and I saw that pretty much everyone bore the brutal imprint of love, whether it was lost, whipped away from them, or simply vanished into a grave.
But I'm happy I read the sequel, which painted a more realistic picture of Lou's life after, how Will's death affected her and the rest of his family as well.
I do feel like the ending of After You opened up more questions rather than closure for me, mainly concerning Lou and Sam and their budding relationship...It makes me almost curious if there might even be another book about Louisa Clark in the future.

Jojo Moyes has written at the beginning of this book that she doesn't want anyone writing a review to spoil what happens in Me Before you, the first book in the series.
No clues about what would happen and that was a real treat not knowing how or if Moyes would be able to write a book as gripping as Me Before You. She has!
I'm amazed, not only that I got the book from NetGalley, but also that it only took a day or two to get approved...--------------------------------------------Jojo Moyes After You is now on NetGalleyBut you can't request the title yet...So now I have to wait for it to be available to request...
So let’s talk a second about my newfound dabbling in the world of audiobooks. I have long-since learned the words to every single song in the history of the world and wanted something different for my morning commute instead of this . . . .  (That is 100% the look my husband gives me when I insist on singing too!)Anywho, please note said commute is still not very long so, at best, I get through one “part” of an audiobook each weekday. Despite having both an e-version as well as a paper version o
When a combination of me finding out a third book in this series was soon to be released as well as the audio popping up as both available and recommended to me on the library website I figured what the hell - it was probably time to bite the bullet.I had every intention of giving After You 2 Stars because Jo Jo Moyes obviously has a ginormo set of cajones to even attempt to follow up the perfection of Me Before You. But then ELEVEN FARKING DAYS of listening went by (I know my reading log doesn’t reflect that, but it’s because I’m stupid and forgot to add it) and everything that was magic about the first book was tainted and cheapened and Louisa wasn’t adorable and quirky, but instead insufferable and pretty much a failure at being a grown-up and then Lily (FUCKING LILY!) showed up and I have never wanted to smack the crap out of a child as much as I did her little entitled ass and all of the men were vile and WTF happened Jo Jo – your husband cheat on you or something?!?!?!?!
Readers who have read the book know exactly what I'm talking about, that moment in the end where things could have ended differently.
I couldn't fully comprehend the need for a sequel, but my friend pushed me to read it, so I ended up requesting it on NetGalley.
I knew from the moment I read the first paragraph I wouldn't stick to reading it for too long.
It brought up all the emotions that I felt for the characters and I couldn't help but cry.
Moyes delivers a story that will have you nodding your head along and making sure you'll be the cheerleader the characters need.
O...M...G!!! *o* This is really happening!I just hope my heart survives it for the 2nd time...
You never know what will happen, when you fall from a great height.   ***Actual rating: 3.5/5 relieving stars.*** I didn't plan on reading this today, or any time soon, but when I suddenly had an entire afternoon in a bookstore, AND this beautiful book happened to be there in front of me...how could I resist? So I quickly skimmed through the entire book and gladly, many parts of the story caught my undivided attention.Apparently, we followed Louisa Clark's life without Will's company and even
AnecdoteWhen I found this on the bookshelf, I was too excited to bother seeking a comfy seat in the reading area, so I simply stood in the corner and buried my nose in the book.
After what felt like an hour, a pretty foreign girl walked toward me, pointing to the book in my hands and asked me where I found it.
Anyway, I felt extremely good after discussing books with someone in real life and I think we indeed all need some bookish friends anywhere and everywhere.
DNF @53%...so 2-STARS is a rating ONLY for the parts I've managed to read.Way to ruin a perfect story... STAY AWAY FROM IT, GUYS. Just read Book#1 and leave it at that...
3 Moving on ★'s “You’re going to feel uncomfortable in your new world for a bit.
It was all pretty predictable and the romance felt kinda stiff up against Me Before You. But I guess that'd be pretty hard to top.
Me Before You was such a heart-wrenching, cry your eyes out for a straight week kinda book.
Over all i'm left feeling pretty disappointed!
I saw that I could be enough.”“With that kiss, I tried to tell him the enormity of what he meant to me.
I tried to thank him for wanting me to be me, more than he wanted to make me stay.”
Or if reading in a public place, attempting to cover up your laughs so as not to look like the loon in the room/on the plane/train/coffee shop...Initially I have to admit i was a little skeptical when I heard there was going to be a follow up to the powerful "Me Before You".
I worried any sequel wouldn't live up to the engrossing and moving first book, and was in two minds about bothering to even read it.
All in all a great follow up to the first story and I'm looking forward to the third book "Still Me".
