https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12606203-the-trouble-i-ve-seen
As well as her travel and war reporting, Gellhorn also reported on social problems within the US in the mid 30s as part of a group of writers commissioned to supply an accurate picture of the plight of the poor to the heads of the new welfare programmes.
Almost as tough as Harry Crews' memoir "Childhood", but with a 3rd-person detachment that doesn't provide any more warmth.
Crews' account was full of desperate figures struggling for the most life they could get; Gellhorn's creations know they are defeated, and are slowly sinking down in to the ruins of a society that (for them) has failed.
I was struck by the recurring theme throughout these stories of the shame people felt when they had no choice but to go on Relief.
My Dad was born in 1928 and raised on the Saskatchewan prairies during the Dirty Thirties, as they were known here.
He also reacted to the thought of unemployment insurance and welfare as fates worse than death that must be avoided at all costs.
I see now that as he was raised during those hard times when all people had was their pride, he couldn't feel any other way.
The story of Ruby brought me to tears, such an innocent child.
Extraordinary, compelling,fact based fictional narratives describing 4 experiences of the Great Depression & the relief programme. Gellhorn's prose is beautiful and in contrast to the events.
The fictional novellas in "The Trouble I've Seen" are based on her fact finding trips as part of a group of 16 writers who fanned out around the USA during 1934-35 to send back reports to Harry Hopkins at the Federal Emergency Relief Association to provide ground level information on what people in the nation were experiencing during the Great Depression so that Hopkins could monitor the effectiveness of the "Relief".
Gellhorn still manages to convey notes of hope and small victories during each tale, even if these may seem of a tiny nature in the relative scheme of things.
I hate sentimental renditions of other people's troubles. I feel in order to keep dignity, the last thing you need is to be displayed to teach somebody a lesson or worse to evoke sympathy. Or am I a coward and ostrich, thinking that if I don't know about it, it does not exist? Martha Gellhorn tells how unemployment combined with hunger can render humans hopeless with veracity and completely "free of cant" (from the introduction). Brilliant. No soppiness in sight!
True grit. The American spirit and determination against the odds. All the stories in this collection should have been made into a classic Hollywood film. Managing to show both the terror & tenderness of the great depression. A Diamond in the rough.
Could not put this down! Incredible stories with such an impressive insight into lives of people living in a unique time in US history. I'm now looking for more gellhorn!
Agonising and viscerally poignant. Fiction but based on her travels around Depression America assessing the state of the impoverished. If ever you feel the need to know the cruelty and insidiousness of poverty then here would be a good place to start.
Having previously read Gelhorn's 1940 novel A Stricken Field, written after her marriage to Ernest Hemingway I was interested to tackle The Trouble I've Seen, a group of novellas written during Gelhorn's sojourn as a New Deal reporter and published in 1938 and before she met the famous novelist.Where A Stricken Field show Papa's influence, The Trouble I've Seen shows none.
Still she tells an interesting and affecting story of the Great Depression.
The fact is she cared a great deal more than Hemingway ever did and it shows particularly here.

the 1930's depression USA, mid west, look at people's lives and family.Depressing but well written.
