https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824062.God_s_Smuggler
Wow. Wow. Wow. This book, ya'll. I just can't even tell you how faith-strengthening, inspiring, adventuresome, and just down-right fun and encouraging this was! Simply amazing! Very highly recommended! Every Christian needs to read this! And even if your not into non-fiction, this is still a great book! At times I had to remind myself that is *was* non-fiction. Go find a copy of this!
This book may now top the list.In "God's Smuggler," Brother Andrew tells his own story of smuggling Bibles to Christians behind the Iron Curtain.
It is indeed moving to read of these people who thirsted for Word of God and were not allowed to have it.Brother Andrew's work was dangerous.
Brother Andrew now considers this book to be a curse because it has caused many people to elevate him to superstar status.
If you read this book, you may find yourself wanting to do just that.
Well based on a recommendation here that reminded me of it I finally got it (after 46 years) and it was well worth the read.First off this is a Christian read, know that going in.
From his home in the Netherlands he traveled to and through the Iron Curtain countries and later across the world witnessing and speaking of Christ.As I said, this is frankly a Christian book.
The Bible smuggling part of the book is incredible and a reminder that God was and is at work to bring His Word to the unreached.
Many times Bro Andrew and his team prayed as they crossed various borders carrying much needed Bibles illegally into "closed" countries in Eastern Europe and later to China.
Although later Bro Andrew discovered that various secret police were fully aware of his activities and chose to allow it to continue...Some charismatic leanings but not a big focus in the book and doesn't detract from the content.
My mom gave me this book in college back in 1995, and for some reason, I waited until last week to read it.
From Brother Andrew's childhood in Nazi-occupied Holland, to his desperate rebellion against God while in the Dutch army, to his return to the Lord, and his amazing adventures smuggling Bibles into Communist countries in the 50's and 60's, it was a phenomenal testimony.
Brother Andrew challenges each of us to live out our faith in Christ and witness how much He can do through us.
Some people think of doing grand things for Christ, but often, Brother Andrew was just THERE...giving hope to the persecuted Christians that there is someone else in the body praying for them.
Reading this book will raise your awareness of persecuted Christians and the struggles they face.
It is not graphic at all (not even close to "Tortured for Christ"), but shows the seriousness and struggles of believers in closed countries.A quote that really stood out to me;"You can't use strong-arm tactics against the Church without strengthening it.
Under persecution a man looks to his faith to see if it's worth fighting for, and this is a scrutiny Christianity can always withstand.
Just. . . every Christian needs to read this.
Faith. This entire book is a complete exercise in utter faith. I am in awe. This is really one of the best books I've ever read, and I think I will now read everything else that he's written. I think every Christian (oh, well non-Christians too, if they would) should read this. It's also side-splittingly hilarious. Really. And it also takes place partly in Holland. You have no excuse, so go go.
This was by far the BEST non-fiction book I have ever read. It made me reconsider the degree that I believe in miracles. I love God, and always have, but this book showed me how small of a box in which I keep my God. A great read for anyone who is questioning where God is or if he still hears us.
If, as Brother Andrew says, God can use a man with no education (he didn't even graduate high school), no money and a war wound to do His work in such wonderful ways, how much more could He use the rest of us?This is a must-read, especially if you're weary of waiting, have doubts, or simply don't quite believe, but every Christian should read this at least once.Disclaimer: I received a free ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Such a fast paced and quick read for me! Also, I take my bible for granted...
Ok, this book is AWESOME. All the ways God worked through Brother Andrew's life was just - amazing! And the writing is not one single bit boring either, like I miiiggghhhtt have expected it to be ;)
So very good. My dd and I loved listening to this and were challenged in many unexpected ways. This book will help you love your Bible more and pray -for specifics- more and more frequently.
"God's Smuggler" is an inspiring story of missions.
I'm encouraged to have more faith in God and to treasure the precious Word of God that I often take for granted.
God is SO BIG and we can always trust Him.Some favorite quotes:"...I could hardly wait to tell Corrie what God had done with the thimbleful of willingness we had offered Him.""'Why are we worried!' Rolf said suddenly.
'This is God's work!
Cleary they underestimated the Bible, and this might be God's opportunity.
I knew from personal experiences how powerful a tool the Bible could be in the hands of the Holy Spirit.
I have heard about this book for most of my life and, while I didn't doubt the quality of the content, I expected it to be hard to read. After deciding to tackle it, I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was easy to read and extremely engaging. Funny stories throughout the book made me laugh and peoples poignant desire for God's word brought tears to my eyes on several occasions. Written in a style similar to The Hiding Place: 25th Anniversary Edition, I highly recommend this powerful story of a life of service, adventure and faith.
Omigosh! I loved this book so much! This is the story of a missionary, called Brother Andrew, who smuggles Bibles behind the border of the Soviet Union! It was so thrilling; the accounts of guards nearly finding the Bibles and missing them by a hair sometimes, this book will give you the thrill of a spy novel without the romantic scenes.
Amazing story of God's faithfulness in this incredible man's life. Definitely a great read!
Excellent story of an ordinary guy who answered the call to live an extraordinary life trusting God.
A truly wonderful book!
Adventures in Soviet Europe, communist China, and around other parts of the world!
A roguish Dutch boy named Andrew runs from God only to become a risk taker for God's Kingdom by smuggling Bibles and other materials to Christians behind the Iron and Bamboo curtains.
I couldn't put it down.Sometimes a book just hits you at the right time.
Back in 2003 a dear friend gave this to me in order to encourage me that God would use me in His timing.
Sadly, I delayed reading the book for 15 years.
Many miraculous accounts of provision and deliverance make this an encouraging reminder of God’s tender care for His children.
Clearly this method did help build Andrew’s trust in God’s care, and those stories are some of the most memorable parts of the book.
God certainly did provide, and in astonishing ways, but I don’t think this refusal to seek a paycheck is necessarily more holy or more pleasing to God as a general rule.
My concern, however, is that the book leaves the impression that God’s servants are somehow less righteous when He provides for them through ordinary means—such as a monthly salary.
I saved it for last on the good days, and when I was feeling grumpy I read it first and I'm serious, it made the rest of the school not seem half as bad because I was laughing so hard and smiling as I thought about the chapter.The thing is...this is one of those books that's a real story, and therefore includes humor, sadness, happiness, foolishness, despair, triumph, and astonishment.
It's beautiful, funny, thought-provoking, and utterly true.I love this story so much and I know I'm going to keep reading it again, and again, and again.
The man called Brother Andrew (name changed for safety) who lived in Holland before and during the Iron Curtain years, impacted Europe with his faithfulness like no other person I'm aware of.
He learned to live in God's arms, and we can learn from him."The more devoted a Christian, the more likely he was to stay put." Brother Andrew said this about the people he met behind the Iron Curtain who could have escaped Communism, but chose to stay in their communities because they placed their service for God over their lives of danger for holding prayer and church services.
Well based on a recommendation here that reminded me of it I finally got it (after 46 years) and it was well worth the read.First off this is a Christian read, know that going in.
From his home in the Netherlands he traveled to and through the Iron Curtain countries and later across the world witnessing and speaking of Christ.As I said, this is frankly a Christian book.
'Brother' Andrew -- as he is commonly called by friends and colleagues alike -- began his unusual ministry with a trip to Poland where he learned the importance of being there for his brothers and sisters in Christ who were reassured to discover that their fellow Christians in the West hadn't forgotten them.
From that trip in 1955, Andrew went on to visit all the other countries behind the 'Iron Curtain' -- including Russia -- and learned many lessons about Christ, Christianity, control and his fellow human beings which he shares in God's Smuggler.
Years later found Brother Andrew sneaking behind the Iron Curtain to secretly deliver Bibles to the believers trapped there.
But Brother Andrew was granted miracles and beautiful friendships with people all over the world that enabled him to spread the message of love to people who were starving for the message.I read this book years ago and couldn't put it down.
The writers have written the story to thrill the reader, but also to show the depths of love and great lengths that God will go to, to read His children.
This is one of my top 20 favorite books I have read ever.
It was illegal to bring Bibles to those countries or to give them away.
Each time Andy needed money God provided it through generous people.
People needed courage to even talk to him since government agents infiltrated everywhere, including in churches.
I was happy to read about his meeting the ideal woman to be his wife and the mother of their children, she stayed behind in Holland for long lonely times while Andy was traveling and giving away Bibles and encouraging persecuted churches.
This book is exciting to read and inspiring.
The best biography I've ever read, I think, or at least one of them!
I am now a fan of Brother Andrew.Updated Review:Rating: 5 big stars!God's Smuggler has to be one of my favorite biographies - of all time.
It inspired my faith and touched my heart.
I thought that God's Smuggler would be boring and I wouldn't enjoy.How wrong I was!This book was so amazing.
Brother Andrew's life was crazy-adventurous and greatly enjoyable to read about (especially the first parts).
He's a fantastic man of God that had incredible faith.
Seriously, read this book, especially if you like biographies.
I first read the comic version of the book in the late 1970s as a child.
This is worth reading but I read it in tension with The God of the Mundane (http://bookwi.se/god-of-the-mundane/) because I also agree with the concept of that book that most of our lives as Christians deal with the day to day and not the miraculous.
I did appreciate the focus of this book on trying to serve Christians in more difficult situations than what most of us in the West have to deal with.
My full review is on my blog at http://bookwi.se/gods-smuggler/
It had been a solid 15 years since I had read this book but it has continued to age well. I was struck at many of the conditions of the church behind the Iron Curtain and how they were similar to the current western church. Sad, but true. This book, while non-fiction, reads like an adventure spy thriller at times and is a great faith builder since it's stock full of accounts of unexplainable ( other than supernatural help) events.
I have always been a sucker for good missionary stories. Although this well-known book has been around for ages, I have never read it until now. I am challenged to think more carefully about what I can do to reach out to the persecuted church around the world. As Brother Andrew says, sometimes the best thing you can do is to just be there.
