https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72210.The_Kingdom_by_the_Sea
I liked Theroux's memoir of his travels around the coast of Great Britain, but I didn't love it as I had hoped.
I had gravitated to The Kingdom by the Sea because I always like a good travelogue, and I especially love reading about England.
In short, this wasn't the reading escape I had hoped.I think this is a book I'll need to reread at a different point, when I'm less edgy and can better appreciate Theroux's travel narrative.
Overall, I'd still recommend this book to those who like reading travelogues about England.
However, far too much of "The Kingdom by the Sea" was filled with boring and highly repetitive material.
Theroux's book follows him on trip around the British coastline.
I can think of no words to describe his disposition better than "breezy condescension." Theroux turns up his nose at nearly all forms of mass culture and working class tastes.
He is far too self-absorbed and that makes for highly uninteresting reading much of time.On the other hand, Theroux paints a very powerful portrait of poverty and unemployment in the UK during the Falkland Islands era.
As a portrait of the British Isles during the early 1980s, Theroux's book is compelling, but far from complete.
Without visiting castles and cathedrals Theroux decides to walk, train, hitch-hike and bus the coast of Britain as far as is possible (not forgetting the ferry to Northern Ireland).
He just wants to observe and speak with people on the journey to get a sense of the places he visits.
He gives all the people he meets names.
There is a city where he says ‘there is not a single healthy vice available’ and the people form this place ‘would gladly pick a halfpenny out of a dunghill with his teeth’.
Sadly, I chose badly as this is a book where I kept on wondering why he bothered to complete what seemed to be even for him a thankless and depressing endeavour.To misuse a title from another book, this Beautiful Room is Empty.
The Britain of that time obviously had its serious problems, its eyesores and its lack of confidence but this book seeks out the worst of everything and then masochistically repeats and repeats the experiences.
I remember being tempted after reading this to go and seek out the underbelly of boring US towns and write something equally snobbish, selective and depressing, thereby missing the incredible variety and positive energy of the country.
Here there seems at times to be little natural sympathy for the people he meets, and curiosity only for the purpose of making fun.But each time I became impatient or disenchanted with Theroux’s writing, he recaptured me with perceptive observations and skillful writing.“Some towns can be transformed and given a memorable character by a chance encounter.
And then it is your secret - you alone were the witness.”“It is only hindsight that gives travel any meaning.”At the end of the book I found that despite my uneasiness and criticisms of Theroux’s style and approach I had gradually become comfortable with him, appreciative of his clear-sightedness and refusal to glamorize or romanticize the country and the people.
Published not many years after Theroux found success with his wonderful Great Railway Bazaar, he wrote this, traveling the perimeter of his adopted (at the time) home of Great Britain.
Theroux is a wonderful observer, open to experience, a lover of people and customs, but doesn't hold back when he dislikes a landscape that has been ravaged or the ugliness of a town (e.g., Aberdeen).
Making sometimes hilarious observations.
But this book, although a time capsule of the '80s when it comes to the current events of the time (birth of Prince William, the Falkland "issue," impending railway strike, Yorkshire ripper, IRA troubles), gives the impression that the landscapes he describes from the Cornish and rough Scottish coastlines would remain the same and be familiar today.
Theroux manages to make Britain seem like the most dismal country on the planet.
While he was traveling during the 80s, I can definitely say that some of the places he described either aren't that way now, or weren't given a fair shake.
He deliberately avoids castles and anything most travelers would visit.
And there's a difference between Theroux and Bryson -- while Bryson often writes at length about British eccentricities, you still get the sense that he truly loves the country and her people.
With Theroux, you get the increasing sense that he hates all British people, for reasons never fully described.
Here, he traveled clockwise around the coast of the UK, covering England, Wales, then Northern Ireland, then back for Scotland and the rest of England.
The beginning on the south and west of England is slow at times, but the section on Northern Ireland was amazing, and Scotland and east England continue.
I've read two other books covering much of the same route and Theroux blew them away and had me looking up towns and tracing his route.
One of my all time favourite travel books, Theroux takes his jaded eyes around the coast of Thatcher's Britain at the time of the Falklands conflict.
His favourite spot is the remotest corner of Scotland where the sight of sheep stranded on a deserted beach sandbank as the tide comes in,leaving them to drown, warms the cockles of his heart.
Theroux concludes more or less that there's not a lot to like in Britain, really, which makes it much the same as the rest of the world with the exception of Cape Cod and the odd bit of Africa.
Theroux travels in order that he can visit a place, hate it, and then leave.
I wanted to give up when I was halfway through, but some sick sense of perseverance compelled me to finish it.I picked this up originally because I rather like travelogues; I didn't realize that Theroux is famous for the grim, bitter unhappiness of his travel writing (Theroux's theory is that "a lot of travel is misery and delay").
The problem is that Theroux never manages to make this misery and delay interesting.
God, those nuclear power stations suck!
God, those railway enthusiasts suck!
God, those Skinheads suck!
He is the only guest and the owners tell him it will be busy when the tourist season starts.
The room is horrible and the owners inhospitable, he leaves as soon as he possibly can.
He picks up his bag and walks to the next town, which is pretty much the same as the previous one.I chose this book because the author seemed like someone that I should read.
However I just found the book to be a long winded and repetitive whinge about the lack of hospitality and excitement in the coastal towns.
To prepare for the book, he decided to follow the coastline around Britain traveling clockwise, and to include Norther Ireland.
He made this trip in 1982, traveling by foot, bus, and train.His goal was to tell his readers what the British are really like.
He has a real gift for getting people to talk to him and includes lots of quotations from his many conversation with British people.
He is also a lover of rail travel and did not like the fact that the British rail service was shrinking even while he was making this trip.
My mother-in-law, Rose Virgo, was a great reader, and no doubt felt some embarrassment at having a relation ignorant of such great writers such as Theroux.
Consequently, the first birthday after my marriage, she gifted me this wonderful travel book.
For years thereafter, one after another, I received travel books by Theroux until, having exhausted them, she proceeded to introduce me to other great travel writers.
This, certainly, was one of the most wonderful gifts of my life, and remains a favorite of a genre to which I am now addicted.
This book was written in the 80's at the start of the Faukland WarWhich makes much of what Theroux writes very out of date. I did enjoy some of his descriptions of the crazy hotels and interesting observations on the British. I very much enjoyed his train trips- I often thought of the Thomas the Tank Engine series that my children loved with branch lines and steam engines and beautiful countryside.Interesting now a piece of long ago Britain.
A great travel book! More a snapshot of Britain in 1982 than travel book strictly about a place, but also some great general travel insights along the way too. Theroux has a gift for description and finding interesting characters along the way.
Bit smug. Repeated portentous refs to Falklands War but no analysis of what it might mean for contemporary Britain. Visits many places which have lots to comment on but misses many opportunities. Not much warmth and humanity, from a visitor who chooses instead to describe events like bumping into a lone female traveller and scaring her half to death. Unenlightening,
Starting at the bottom of the south-east coast, just a short train trip away from his home, Theroux picks his way around by train, ferry, bus, and foot, in a book that feels very much like a little time capsule, this being written in the early 80’s.
It was possible for me to look through the front windows of these bungalows and see people polishing a souvenir horse brass, or buffing a cruet, or crocheting a doll with a long dress as a container for hiding the toilet roll.
I thought about this as I walked along, and it seemed hugely appropriate that people were ironing antimacassars in a spot where a nuclear melt-down could be occurring.
(Theroux’s journey took place in the early 1980’s):“It was all old grievances, and vengeance in the dark.
The men dressed up, made rules, beat drums, swore oaths, invented handshakes and passwords, and crept into the dark and killed people.
And secondly, because having lived and travelled fairly extensively in the United Kingdom for just seven years I am no less fascinated with the place and people than the day I arrived.
The book seems to highlight the fact that a newcommer is not likely ever to get to understand the people very well, but could possibly add to one's catalogue of the variety of accents, habits, quirks, strange beliefs.
As the rail system diminishes and bus travel becomes less reliable, villages fall into isolation, the rural population declines and the countryside is neglected.
Reading this book carefully while following Theroux's course on Wikimapia, I feel like I've retroactively added a new dimension to all the Brit lit I've ever read, and the British cinema and television I've ever seen.
I now have a more vivid image of scene and character that comes directly from this author's descriptions of the geological and ethnic variations along the British coastline.Theroux started at Margate on the south side of the Thames' mouth, and traveled clockwise around Great Britain, mostly on foot and by coastal rail, during the summer of 1982.
And those branch railway lines of which Theroux lamented the planned closure still seem to be visible in those photos as well.
This was written in 1982 during the British invasion of the Falkland Islands...
The infrastructure of the UK had been falling apart since the 1950's and by the time of Theroux's 1982 journey the decay, unemployment and biker gangs were the result.English people of a certain class often said things like this, taking a satisfaction in the certainty of death, because dying was a way of avoiding the indignity of what they imagined to be a grim future..."At the current rate, I'm confident that this is something that Americans of the near future will be saying if they haven't started to already.
The concept is good: walking and taking transit around the coast of Britain, while examining the people, culture and general society throughout.
But Theroux seems to have such a negative and cynical outlook on what he sees that you come away thinking Britain is an incredibly depressing place.Which it is not!
I've been to Northern England and stayed in two of the towns that Theroux passes through, and the country is not nearly as dirty and depressing as he makes it out to be.
The biggest frustration is that Theroux seems to find no joy in the people.
I just had to stop in the middle. I couldn't bear to read any more putdowns and sad commentary on the British. This author has some serious issues going on that are causing him to have such a negative take on those around him and life in general. Too bad because he does a good job of the research into the places he goes, but his relationships with the people he observes are so reflective of his own emotional state, it sad. I'm going to have to hang it up on any more of his books.
Theroux is a delight. Traveling around the coast of England in the '80s... during the Falklands war, the railway strike, Thatcherite depression...Theroux observes an England slowly becoming obsolete. Curmudgeonly and surly he can be, but never uninteresting. His take-down of the English brings a smile every time... But his more generous observations about the Welsh, Scots and the Irish are equally fun. The book feels a bit dated, true. But as a travelogue, truly one of the best I have read.
I was feeling pretty ok about the whole book until I read this line on page 297: "I seldom had a good meal in my traveling, not that it mattered much: food was one of the dullest subjects."It was a slap in the face. A kick in the stomach. A stab in the back. I think I am through with you, Paul Theroux.
Reread during my recent Theroux binge.
He challenges another railroad buff who advocates for steam, noting how, like “many other railway bluffs, he detested our century” (175).Theroux travels takes him out of London and along the southern coast visiting places like Dover (at this point the tunnel under the channel is still talk and Theroux insists a Brit by pointing out the Japanese built a longer tunnel under the sea connecting their mainland to Hokkaido.
Then he travels by ferry to Glasgow and makes his way around the Scottish Coast, before coming back down to London.
That and for Theroux unique way of describing the countryside and the people, I am glad that I read it.
I have read a number of travelogues written by Americans in Britain and I had high expectations of this one as Theroux is a prolific travel writer.
From the beginning, I was disappointed by Theroux's approach to exploring the United Kingdom.
Despite stating that he lived in London for ten years without exploring much of the rest of the country, he decides from the beginning of his travels around the coast, "No sightseeing; no cathedrals, no castles, no churches, no museums.
Overall, however, the book would have benefited from more humour and willingness to go sightseeing!
This is a typically grouchy book by the itinerant philosopher, sharing his opinions on sociology and economy of the people of the English countryside and decaying seaside.
His struggles with transportation are familiar and humorous.Is this book factual?
I can accept this distortion to make the book interesting, but I do not trust his opinions, which are stated as if fact.
They are not noted for their visual sense." While in Wales, he wonders if "the Welsh could be explained in terms of being bilingual, which is so often a form of schizophrenia, allowing a person to hold 2 contradictory opinions in his head at once, because the opinions remain."He is mistaken to conflate bilingualism and schizophrenia, in fact web search finds NIH saying "bilingual advantage has been described for neurodegenerative disease in general".
I've just described much of what Paul Theroux had made places along the coast of Great Britain in the early 80's out to be.
One can feel his smugness and his sense of superiority as he describes the places and people along the coast.
There is a very funny conversation Theroux had with a bigoted South African couple on whom his sardonic comments fell flat but which had me liking him a bit.I am a big fan of Bill Bryson who (like a reviewer of this book had noted) obviously genuinely loves Britain, and laughs about Britain and its eccentricities.
Theroux, on the other hand, seems to laugh AT them and to feel superior over them.
