https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51787.The_Basic_Writings_of_Bertrand_Russell
Most important philosopher of the Twentieth Century
A+Awesome collection of Bertrand Russell's essays, showcasing his incredible diversity of thought and interests.
Political philosophy, economics, international diplomacy, science, history of philosophy, morality, religion and spirituality, mathematics, logic, etc etc, all of these are showcased in this collection.
Personally I had a bit of a harder time with the section of his essays about mathematics, it was above my head so harder to follow and understand.
I love his methodology of thinking, the framework is built upon a deep reliance on logic and critical reasoning techniques.
Even if one doesn't agree with his final conclusions one can't help but admire his methodology and critical thinking skills.
The mathematician who wins the Nobel Prize in literature. His writing is unique. He's the Hemingway of prose; keeps it simple, logical, and with the purpose of education for those not interested in wordy philosophical wind. Easy reading, frequently enlightening, and often very sly and witty. This collection is topically separated, and 800 pages long. Fun for casually picking through like a magazine. I prefer whole, unabridged books, but it's nice to have a giant paperweight/doorstop/boat anchor/missile weapon.
Perhaps the greatest shortcoming that Russell had, and one that runs throughout the entire length and breadth of his works, is his consistent inability to see that he himself was a proponent of the very philosophies which led to the calamitous events of World War I and the subsequent degradation of Western Civilization, events he identifies correctly as the great catastrophes that launched us into the current age.
It is disappointing that Russell never realized this, and it certainly would have tied up the numerous loose ends and self-contradictions within his worldview had he done so.He was, nevertheless, a genius of great magnitude and this, his collected greatest hits, is a perfect place to begin to delve the depths of that genius.
You can follow him more or less in this book up from the foundations - logic and maths, philosophy, ethics, education and finally (sadly, but nobly) politics.
Some people say beware of Russell's writings - especially the History of Western Philosophy - they're full of bias.
Don't really know how to rate the book though.
While I adore his writing, I don't really adore this specific collection.
A brilliant mix of informal autobiography and history and ramble on philosophy.
The rest it seems are perhaps less worthwhile reading than his full books - unless you've already read them all and are a fan-girl...
Aristotle, in spite of his reputation, is full of absurdities.
He says that children should be conceived in the Winter, when the wind is in the North, and that if people marry too young the children will be female.
He tells us that the blood of females is blacker then that of males; that the pig is the only animal liable to measles; that an elephant suffering from insomnia should have its shoulders rubbed with salt, olive-oil, and warm water; that women have fewer teeth than men, and so on.
Nevertheless, he is considered by the great majority of philosophers a paragon of wisdom.
Many of the sections were not as long as I would have liked, but as an lifelong overview of the author's work/thought, in the author's own words, it is perfect.

I owe innumerable happy hours to reading of this book by Russell, something which I can’t say of any other contemporary scientific writer. Although, he’s best known to the general public for his views on religion, a topic which engaged his attention from boyhood onward, he nevertheless is without a question one of the most productive and most brilliant thinkers of our age.
I haven't read it all, it's more like a good reference and quotes source when you are looking for a smart and reasonable way of looking into our biggest issues. Bertrand Russell was certainly one of the greatest minds of the last century.
while i did not get into "logic" or "principia mathematica", i loved everything in this book. it's a big book and a heavy read but it's broken down in sections which makes it easier to read over a long period of time.
Amazing collection of essays and nice introduction to the work of Bertrand Russell, one of my greatest heroes.
favorite section of the book was "an outline of intellectual rubbish".
I enjoyed reading some of Russell's essays. He wrote in an understandable language though his thinking is at a great depth of reasoning.
Good old common sense....one of the most important thinkers of the 20th century...
If for no other reason, one should read Russell to learn how to write with immense wit and enjoyment without abandoning depth of thought: a must-read for all aspiring writers.
Great anthology, except my edition has no index which makes it less useful than it would otherwise be for research.
Russell, as a free thinker revolutionized modern philosophy. Using logic and reason rather than faith and dogma, in all his arguments he strips away the idea of faith.
Well worth the read. A controversial but hugely intelligent figure.
An impressive compendium of short essays from one of my favourite thinkers from the 20th century.
This is a useful collection of Russell's influential pieces on a variety of topics.
I came to Russell originally through his thoughts on religion, and I still enjoyed those parts most in addition to his political insights.
There was a time when, despite not particularly caring for them, I would have tenaciously delved into the matters he broaches on language, logic, mathematics and physics.
is in its very nature a liberator of bondage to physical nature.
In my opinion science/technology, in addition to providing well-documented benefits for humanity, is also a chief cause of our biggest modern problems.
It is thus illogical to depend solely on science/technology to solve the problems it has itself brought about.Not Bad Reviews@blakerosser1
