https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257965.Drawing_Lessons_from_the_Great_Masters
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Drawing Lessons From the Great Masters is an art book that teaches by looking at the art fundamentals used by great art masters themselves — Michelangelo, Leonardo Da Vinci, Rodin, Goya, Rembrandt, among others.There are 100 master drawings analysed by Robert Beverly Hale on the fundamentals such as line, light and planes, mass, position and thrust, and anatomy. These are all figure drawings. Each illustration is printed full on one page with a certain section s

As a student of art and art history, I was disappointed in how few photographs and drawings the book contained. There were a few illustrations. The title of the book was misleading. I would have like to have seen multiple drawings in color by the masters. As a student it helps to see examples of art principles clearly demonstrated. I feel this book missed the mark. I have read numerous books that did a better job of illustrating the principals in art. Therefore, this book was not that helpful to me.
I found the actual information on anatomy far too technical for the average student, but the book does do a great job getting you to really see light, shadow, and planes.
I can't even count the number of times he says you'll never become a competent draftsman unless you acquire a literal skeleton of human bones, or that you basically need to have a knowledge of anatomy rivaling that of the average MD.
It's a good thing Hale has been safely dead for decades, and I can study this book in peace.
This was a very helpful guide on drawing and I learned much about how to approach my own drawing studies.
It includes drawings in various stages of finish from a wide variety of Greats such as da Vinci, Durer, Titian, Rembrandt, Degas, and many more.
The forward is by Jacob Collins, one of the leading realist artists working today.
He founded the Water Street Atelier and Grand Central Academy of Art in New York, where I hope to take some summer workshops at some point.This book is definitely one to keep.
Drawing Lessons From the Great Masters has remained in print since the 1960s.
Robert Gale came up with an ambitious goal for an art instruction book, using drawing from the old masters to illustrate various lessons about drawing.
The book is divided into topics, such as line, mass, anatomy, and after each explanation he shows several examples.
In spite of the this, I found the book useful and would recommend checking it out of the library and doing some of the exercises.
(In the same vein, I recommend The Master Draughtsman Series, which is out of print, but one can still find them on eBay or Amazon.
One of my all-time favorite art instruction books.
It answers so many questions that I developed while drawing and painting.
For example, which artist uses which type of head construction: sphere, box, cylinder, other?
I never found another book that acknowledges the choice, let alone shows me how to analyze the drawings of my choice.This book has a very good treatment of lines and planes in particular.
I also love the little gems like page 31 where the author caught da Vinci practicing his shading!I'm calling it read, but I come back to this book whenever I have a question, so I'll never truly be done.
This book is a little bit advanced.It guides readers to analyze and appreciated masterpieces from artist and lessons reader why the drawings are good and how to learn.It introduces concepts such as line, light and planes, mass, position, and directions. All these are extremely useful as a systematic way to understand drawings.
Excellent ideas and progression of skills and concepts, as well as compelling, canonical drawings, though the author's analysis and detailed examination of each drawing, which often fell on the left page, remained tedious throughout.
A bunch of excellent life drawing tips to keep in mind. Excellent examples.
it was amazing and very helpful
Empieza con la primicia de que todos los grandes maestros utilizaban el cílindro, el cubo, el circulo y el triángulo para poder construir cualquier figura humana.
Todos los artistas tienen que tener un conocimiento minucioso sobre la estructura ósea del cuerpo humano.
Inclusive Robert Hale nos dice que nuestro deber como artistas es tratar de conseguir todos los huesos reales del cuerpo humano.
La idea es agarrar los huesos y dibujarlos desde cualquier ángulo y conocerlos con lujo de detalle.
La idea es poder dibujar el cuerpo humano desde cualquier ángulo sin la ayuda de un modelo.
It analyzes drawings by great masters: how they shown proportion, head movement, volume, shadow, movement of a body, grace etc etc.
Each page has one drawing, first page describes the drawing - where and what to look for in it, second page shows the drawing being analyzed.Big issue that I have with this book is, some of the small drawings on the first page showing numbers where to look in a drawing on a second page, are far too small to be able to see numbers on it.
These numbers refer to the text below and what part of a drawing is being discussed.
If these drawings marked for analysis were larger, I would have given this book 4 stars.
I enjoyed this unusual book and used it as the starting point for a course I taught in improving drawing by studying the masters. I like that the language and some of the ideas are a bit outdated as it underscores the evolution of ideas about art and technique. Overall it is interesting, insightful and a good book for any artist to study.
A very basic primer in drawing based on classical techniques and the work of the great masters, usually the post-Renaissance Italian masters. The material is very basic, going through the primaries of line, form, shade and structures, but the real gold is the simplified analysis of master drawings. An interesting book and worth a look through. Four stars, not five.
Initially, this seemed like a basic "how to" drawing book, using solely lines, but Hale continued to develop the nuances of drawing through examination of drawings by masters. Eventually, he looks at all of the facets of a drawing and details what you can learn from the problems that the great artists resolved. A fascinating book.
I love this book. Mine copy is worn and loved. Even if you have been doing art for quite some time, there is so much to learn by studying the works in this book. I think ever visual artist should keep a copy and experiment with it.
The author shows how the great artists created the illusion of three dimensions on a two dimensional surface with their drawings. This is a great book for not only art students but those who want to appreciate art more.
It has a good basic over view of everything ones needs to know for the basics of drawing. But I dont think it breaks the steps down well enough or analyze each area but it also does give good examples of artwork.
I am still going through this book, but I absolutely love the in-depth analysis and tips and advice for the artists. Ever since I got a glimpse of Robert Beverly Hale's lectures, I knew he was a gold mind of information. A pity that he passed away.
Wow, a master class in the fundamentals and application of drawing with examples from the World's great masters.Learning to Draw, Line, Light and Planes, Mass, Position Thrust or Direction, Artistic Anatomy, and Driving all the Horses at Once.
One of the standard "must have" books for people wanting to understand more about classical drawing and what the drawings of the great artists looked like
Classic... Read it a least 6 times! Reading it again now... New meaning with each reading
Great introduction to figure drawing concepts
One of my favorite books of all time. Brilliant.
must read for artists and aspiring artists alike. contained within is a lifetime's worth of artistic wisdom and 100 plates to copy and practice from
I'm not keen on the text, but the reproductions are excellent.
