https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398064.Sumerian_Mythology
It is fairly short, but gives several myths as pieced, literally, together by scholars up to the middle of the last century.
The Sumerians are especially interesting because 1) all knowledge of their civilization that lasted for nearly two millennia was entirely lost for many many centuries and 2) they seem to have invented cuneiform.
Also, one may here trace the roots of several major myth patterns found in the mythologies of later peoples of the region.Particularly fascinating was a sideways look into the challenges of assembling cuneiform texts when the pieces of, sometimes, the same original tablets are scattered in museum basements across several continents.
The edition I read is rather outdated by now, being published in the 1960s, and the author constantly referring to translation only just beginning of some of the key Sumerian texts. Nevertheless, I read it with that caveat in mind and as a basic primer for further reading, to get a rough idea of Sumerian cosmogeny. For that, it served its purpose.
Sümer mitolojisine giriş için güzel bir kitap olduğunu düşünüyorum. Yine de keşke önce Tarih Sümer'de Başlar'ı okusaymışım.
According to the hearty reviews on the back cover, this was the authoritative book on Sumerian mythology in 1944. It has been published many times since then, including 2009. Yet the author admits that most of the basic research, such as copying and translating, remains to be done. I had to wonder just how much our views of the Sumerians have changed over the last half century. For a definitive book, this is very short and quite readable. It's one of the rare cases where the pictures are less intelligible than the text.
Kitabı 2.defa okuyorum, her okuyanın yapıcağı yorumların dışında şunları söylemek istiyorum. Tarih sümer'de başlar kitabını okuduktan sonra bu eseri elinize alın.ve sümerler hakkında yazılan kitaplar biraz güncel hale gelmeye başladı, crawfordlard, krammerin talebeleri, muazzez çığ hanımım yayınları derken....21.yüzyıl için güncel kaynaklardan da mutlaka beslenin.
Sümer okumalarına başlamak için iyi bir kitap, Kramer kitabın ilk bölümünde Sümer dilinin çözülmesi hikayesini anlatıyor ve bulunan tabletlerde geçen konulara kısaca değiniyor, ikinci-üçüncü ve dördüncü bölümlerin tamamı tabletlerden örnek metinler ve Kramer'in açıklamaları ile Sümer mitlerinden oluşuyor.
Great book! It does not get into detail but it is highly recommended for beginners in Sumerian Mythology! Very summarized but not shallow.
While a bit outdated, it's still an excellent introduction. My edition came with an updated introduction as well, which corrected some of the old scholarship.
An older work from Kramer. I can appreciate it because it shows the development of the myths as they were being found and pieced together. What you find here that is incomplete in later works will become complete. Not an essential read as it is unless you are either interested in the development of his earliest researches or it is the first of his works you have the chance to read, but either way it is still a good read.
Yazacağım sonra bir şeyler.
Part three of the book which is interwoven with part two are poetic translations of sections of the myths outlined in part two.Comments: very interested by the concept of Kur - chaos, represented as a snake or dragon and it's defeat by Gilgamesh.
Also of interest is the goddess Inanna - she is ubiquitous, powerful, smart and central to many of the myth cycles in a way less expressed for female characters in more recent mythologies..
I've done more reading on ancient Egypt than Sumer and so picked this up wanting to get more background on another equally ancient civilization.
I'm sure this book is dated at this point since it was published in the 1960s, nevertheless it was interesting learning about Kramer's work piecing together myths from different parts of tablets.
I found the most interesting myth to be the Sumerian flood story.
Perhaps because of the academic writing style I found this collection a little less engaging than others I've read resently, but all-in-all worth the time to review.
I think this is a fine example of a great man's work on a subject whose knowledge (or what could be salvaged of it) had been scattered to the four corners of the earth.
I also think this book is merely a declaration of progress, which isn't a terrible thing, it's just a bit disappointing to the unsuspecting reader.
I must remember how unbelievably ancient the fragments are that Kramer was working with.
It has definitely made me thirsty for current research and reconstruction efforts.
There must be a "Where Are They Now?" of Sumerian anthropological and archaeological research.
This book was quite interesting. Sumerian tablets are the oldest ancient writings recording stories of creation, the flood, etc.. The Sumerians believed in a series of gods, but their stories were very similar to Phoenician, the Mesopotamian regions, Palestinian and even Israelites. The major difference being that they have changed the names of gods to their local ones and the people involved to more local names. It really makes you think. I would recommend this to anyone interested in Mythology, History, Religion and/or Nonfiction.
Çalışmaları için yazarımıza -bilim adamımıza- sonsuz teşekkür ediyorum. Üç yıldız vermemin sebebi kişiye ya da çalışmalara değil; bunu yapacak yetkinlikte de değilim zaten. Fakat başlangıç seviyesinde olan ve Sümer mitolojisini tanıtma amaçlı yazılmış bir kitaba göre hem önsözde hem de kitabın kalanında çok fazla arkeolojik -kazı, müze, kaşif, süreç- ayrıntısı var. Bu "fazlalığın" mitolojinin kendisini merak eden okuyucular için dikkat dağıtıcı olduğunu düşünüyorum.
There is no higher authority on anything from ancient Sumer than Samuel Noah Kramer. Undisputably the Father of Ancient Sumer.
A very descriptive account of the history of cunieform writing and some Sumerian myths. Quite a few typographical errors though.
An insightful and easy to read introduction to one of the first cosmologies in human history
Read this as part of my Sumerian research
Not really what I was looking for, but has some interesting parallels to early Hebrew and Babylonian mythology.
Good history of how many of the tablets containing Sumerian myths were found and translated.
The author was one of the most renowned pioneering scholars on this subject so respect to the expertise but it was a bit beyond me as I am mainly interested in the stories.
