https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5553.Six_Easy_Pieces
Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher, Richard Feynmanتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2009 میلادی عنوان: شش قطعهٔ آسان؛ نویسنده: ریچارد فاینمن؛ مترجم: محمدرضا بهاری؛ تهران، هرمس، 1387، در نه، 198 ص؛ مصور؛ شابک: 9789643635558؛ مبانی فیزیکنقل از متن پشت جلد: ...اما مهمترین کشف در کل نجوم این است که ستاره ها هم از همان نوع اتمهایی که در زمین داریم درست شده اند. وای که در هر جمله ی این داستان مختصر چقدر مطلب هست... شاعران گفته اند که علم، زیبایی ستاره ها ر
Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher, Richard Feynmanتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2009 میلادی عنوان: شش قطعهٔ آسان؛ نویسنده: ریچارد فاینمن؛ مترجم: محمدرضا بهاری؛ تهران، هرمس، 1387، در نه، 198 ص؛ مصور؛ شابک: 9789643635558؛ مبانی فیزیکنقل از متن پشت جلد: ...اما مهم‌ترین کشف در کل نجوم این است که ستاره‌ ها هم از همان نوع اتم‌هایی که در زمین داریم درست شده‌ اند.
یا می‌توانم این چرخِ فلک را با چشم‌ بزرگ تلسکوپ پالومار تماشا کنم و ببینم که ستاره‌ ها دارند از همدیگر، از نقطه‌ ی آغازی که شاید زمانی سرچشمه‌ ی همه‌گی‌شان بوده‌ است، دور می‌شوند.
Six Easy Pieces is a collection of the ‘easiest’ six chapters from Richard Feynman’s most-celebrated text book The Feynman Lectures on Physics.
The most interesting preface is the one written by Feynman himself for the original edition, in which he talks about how he set about piecing the course together, who it was aimed at and why, and how ultimately he felt that he had let his students down in some way.
Our understanding of the universe, and particularly quantum mechanics, has moved on in leaps and bounds but at no point did Six Easy Pieces feel like it was out of date because Feynman’s timeless ways of explaining complicated physics in uncomplicated ways.
In fact, I can barely remember the different topics in the book now because of how little I actually retained about them.For people who think this is going to be a magical book that will teach what were once almost mysteriously complicated ideas with wonderful simplicity - think again.
Although nowhere near as technical as the topics actually go.All in all, I didn't really enjoy it.
But I could see its merit for Physics students and it did bring to light various big questions about science in general, which is why it didn't get 2 or 1.
Contains the best explanation for the uncertainty principle I have come across. Still trying to wrap my mind around quantum mechanics though.
This is one of those rare books whose title says everything that has to be said about it. In fact, the title sums up the book so well that I’ll only repeat it: Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by its Most Brilliant Teacher
so this book (if you were at all interested) is a collection of the six 'most basic' lectures delivered by richard feynman when he taught caltech 1st year physics undergrads in the early 1960s.
honestly though, i was a little disappointed.admittedly, i thought the chapter on quantum behaviour (6) was *fantastic*, and probably the best and most thorough explanation i've come across.
but i would definitely recommend this chapter (which you can read online for free - http://www.feynmanlectures.caltech.ed...) to anyone to wants to understand quantum behaviour.
He says that matter goes straight unless acted upon by an external force, but we don't know why; that the earth is pulled toward the sun, as opposed to the earth moving around the sun; and that atoms are always in motion ("jigglings and wigglings of atoms") and that such movement increases with the application of heat.
Regarding push-pull (attraction-resistance) Feynman makes some suggestive comments when he states that "the force of electricity between two charged objects looks just like the law of gravitation...." In describing the earth's movement around the sun, Feynman says that the earth impinges "on more particles which are coming from its forward side than from its hind side." Does this mean that the earth "bunches up space" ("particles") as it moves through its orbit and is this related to the earth's gravity?
I think that, when reading this book, you have to be familiar with physics and maths.
There are a lot of books claiming to be for the neophytes in physics/maths/astrology etc.
I can't claim I thoroughly understood everything in this book, but I surely enjoyed Feynman's way of following gradually to smaller scales what happens in an apparently simple process, until he reaches the "core" of it.Also, you can't ignore his way of being even poetic at times, which is really why this book won my heart.
I think it is very rare for someone to be not only brilliant but also a wonderful teacher. Feynman has a very clear and direct style of imparting information. I just love it. Not quite as good as his autobiographical one but still very good.
His lectures were very popular at the time and whilst aimed at undergraduates, it wasn't uncommon for graduate physics students to infiltrate his classes; the one thing Feynman could be assured of was a full house each time he came to teach this course.
(There is a companion volume published under the title "Six not-so-easy pieces" but I've not attempted to read that.) I was attracted to this book not so much by the subject matter, but more by my interest in Feynman himself.
In chapter six, with his usual down-to-earth approach, Feynman describes one of the most famous experiments in physics (the double-slit experiment) and what it tells us about the way fundamental particles behave.
This is a classic lesson in quantum mechanics taught by one of the classic teachers of physics.
But chapter six alone makes this book worth picking up, especially if you want an introduction to wave-particle duality, the uncertainty principle, and the conundrum of quantum measurement that is accessible to the layperson but that also demands that you stretch your mind.

This book is truly mind-opening and I am convinced that Feynman was one enlightened dude.
As I read the book, I felt myself opening up to the concept of atoms, amalgamations, energy, astronomy, gravity, light years, colliders and quantum physics.
To be clear: I still have no grasp on these difficult theories and concepts but now I feel like I have a genuine appreciation for the science and a new way of looking at our world.
Bu kitabın da Alfa Bilim dizsinden yeni çeviriyle baskısı var. Eski çeviride çok fazla hata vardı.Feynman Physics Lecture'daki ilk bölümleri kapsayan bu kitap fizik bilmeyenler için çok güzel bir giriş kitabı. Bu arada Feynman Physics Lecture'ların 3 cildinin de çevrilmekte olduğunu bildirim :-)Kerem Cankoçak
The publisher created this volume (and a second one that I am just getting into called "Six Not-So-Easy Pieces") and a companion audio book in Feynman's own voice about 15 years ago.Although they are not biographical, and I took "freshman physics" a while ago, I picked up these two volumes to read how this man attempted to re-invent the teaching of introductory and intermediate physics.
Nothing that you need to fear: blowing over it will still get you the gist of the point(s).If you have read any of the other books relating Feynman's adventures as a young (20s) man working at Los Alamos, the pick this up and see how the man lived and breathed physics.
4.5/5 starsI picked up this book several months ago and then dropped it despite nearly finishing it due to the complexity of the last chapter: Quantum Behavior.
The method he chose to explain the concepts in these chapters was elegant and easy to understand.
However, I have difficulty with understanding quantum mechanics when he started involving mathematic equation, which I particularly have no formal education.
I might as well come back to this chapter once I have a better understanding of mathematics.Overall, I would recommend "Six Easy Pieces" to anyone who is interested in science, physics especially, to check it out.
It explained big complex ideas with simple analogies that made sense, some of the laws he discussed I knew already but after reading the lecture it all clicked and the picture was more clear.
However I actually studied the conservation of energy and liked it, I was excited to get a new perspective on it and to get deeper intuition but the analogies did not make any sense and it all was just too confusing.
Which is why I think rather than a book it would've been better if I just read lectures on the topics that interest me.
I still enjoyed the book and I would probably read Feynman again in the future along with my physics courses.
فقط متاسفم که چرا این کتاب را زودتر نخواندم، دوره دبیرستان یا حتی لیسانس.
دو فصل فوق العاده خواندنی کتاب از دید من فصل مکانیک کوانتمی و ارتباط فیزیک با علوم دیگر است که بعد از ۵۰ سال و پیشرفت زیستشناسی، شیمی و نوروساینس همچنان مباحث مطرح شده فاینمن درست است.
این فصل میتواند دید خوبی به یک دانشجو (حتی شاید دانش آموز) بدهد که حتی بتواند رشته تخصصی آیندهش را تغییر دهد!
با این که فصلهای مربوط به اتمها در حرکت و نظریه گرانش با زبان ساده و جذاب بیان شدهاند، اما فصل درخشان این کتاب توضیح ساده نظریه کوا
دو فصل فوق العاده خواندنی کتاب از دید من فصل مکانیک کوانتمی و ارتباط فیزیک با علوم دیگر است که بعد از ۵۰ سال و پیشرفت زیست‌شناسی، شیمی و نوروساینس همچنان مباحث مطرح شده فاینمن درست است.
این فصل می‌تواند دید خوبی به یک دانشجو (حتی شاید دانش آموز) بدهد که حتی بتواند رشته تخصصی آینده‌ش را تغییر دهد!
با این که فصل‌های مربوط به اتم‌ها در حرکت و نظریه گرانش با زبان ساده و جذاب بیان شده‌اند، اما فصل درخشان این کتاب توضیح ساده نظریه کوانتمی ورفتار موج-ذره الکترون‌هاست.
خود فاینمن می‌گوید در درس‌های بعدی این بحث را ادامه می‌دهیم، اما متاسفانه قطعه ششم کتاب به پایان رسیده است!
Fred Rogers teaches high school science.
That subtitle may seem overwrought, but it's true. Hawking and Greene have done much to popularize (and fetishize) physics, but Feynman will help the layperson really start to understand it at its most conceptual, basic form. And if you haven't the ability to sustain fifteen years of advanced mathematics, these lessons can still illuminate the marvels of the "mechanism."To be fair, Hawking (astrophysics) and Greene (quantum mechanics) both do a lot for their respective fields as well, but they aren't Feynman.Oh, by the way, I can't perform the most basic algebraic equations. That is so embarassing.
Între cele mai impresionante descoperiri se numără cea legată de originea energiei stelelor, care le face să continue să ardă.
Unul dintre descoperitori a ieșit cu prietena sa tocmai în seara zilei când și-a dat seama că în stele trebuie să se desfășoare reacții nucleare pentru a le face să strălucească.„Uite ce frumos strălucesc stelele!” zise ea.
„Da, răspunse el, și în acest moment sunt singurul om din lume care știe de ce strălucesc ele.” Dar ea a râs de el.
Nu a fost deloc impresionată de faptul că se plimba cu singurul om care, în acel moment, știa de ce strălucesc stelele.
El título no engaña. Seis temas de física sencillos explicados de manera muy asequible. Ha sido una grata sorpresa, aún así, poder recolocar y matizar algunos de los conceptos que creía entender bastante bien (en concreto: relatividad general y principio de incertidumbre, me han despertado alguna neurona nueva).
Não é particularmente ruim, mas o livro definitivamente me decepcionou. Eu já assisti a alguma das lectures de Feynman em vídeo na internet e seu carisma é impressionante, mas há algo que se perdeu na transição entre a oralidade e a escrita.
Excellent introduction to physics. Feynman is a great teacher.

Some of the material was a bit dated, but definitely enjoyed the book. A nice primer to pique your interest.
(Every once in a while something like castling is going on that we still do not understand.) Aside from not knowing all of the rules, what we really can explain in terms of those rules is very limited, because almost all situations are so enormously complicated that we cannot follow the plays of the game using the rules, much less tell what is going to happen next.
In the same way, we can often understand nature, more or less, without being able to see what every little piece is doing, in terms of our understanding of the game.
After reading this, I just want to meet him even more...
The simplicity and clarity in which the material in this book is delivered certainly sets it apart from others of similar genre – especially with its achievable thickness of merely 1cm.Receiving positive critical acclaim from major publications, Six Easy Pieces has become renowned as a work that serves two purposes – to explain important concepts to non-physicsts, and to give an insight into Feynman and his mannerisms.
If you have an interest in finding more out about the universe around you without much background knowledge, Six Easy Pieces is certainly a worthy and rewarding introduction to some important concepts.
Possibly the most important part of this book is in the preface, when Feynman discusses the problems of physics pedagogy.
These actually are easy pieces - if you have had high school level physics, the concepts should be immediately familiar.
The real issue here is the link between ability to solve problems and ability to understand concepts.
So I would say that this is probably a book not for those who have never had exposure to physics, but for those who have a problem solving level understanding (or did at some point) and want to solidify for themselves what those problems are actually about.
