https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2459785.In_the_Woods
Sure, he's been warped by his childhood and circumstances, but he does just about every annoying thing you could possibly imagine-- he constantly navel-gazes and feels self pity, he sleeps with then immediately plays the stereotypical male "I don't want anything to do with you now" role with his female partner (the person we were told was his best friend, and whom he would never ever sleep with), he acts like an idiot over the 17 year old villain/ temptress/ psychopath/ whatever betraying his partner, and by the end of the book he is worse off than ever.
Some wounds will never heal, and there will forever be a Rob Ryan-shaped scar in my heart.Some books are written deliberately to provoke sadness.
The ones that sneak up on you.There are differing degrees of sadness, the type that makes one curl into a ball, sobbing in the wee hours of the morning.
He will break your heart, and I don't even care.I just want to love him.
It just doesn't feel that way because to me, this book is more poetry.
The other books in this series does a better job of investigation, but I don't care.
The story is narrated by Rob Ryan, a detective on the Dublin murder squad, who is sent back to his home town in hopes of unravelling the case of a local child murder.
Is there some piece of evidence that's waited twenty years to be found in those woods?A case like the one Rob and his partner - Cassie - face would leave a very personal mark on anybody, you cannot investigate the murder and sexual assault of a child and keep it just business as usual.
And it's not the murder story (stories?) but Rob's despair, mistakes, pain, and downward spiral and self-destruction that makes this book so painfully real and fascinating to read.
When I couldn't find it, I responded, bewildered and wary, in the only way I knew how: by planting it there myself."The heart of this book is the story of a friendship between Rob and his partner Cassie Maddox (view spoiler)[and the ultimate destruction of it that Rob's downward spiral eventually brings (hide spoiler)].
The central mystery not only remains unsolved, but a disproportionate amount of the plot is spent on what seems, in the end, a total red herring.The narrator appears at the beginning to be a sympathetic, introspective figure, but by the end of the novel he's revealed himself to be whiny, a lousy and disloyal friend, and an inept detective.
I found nothing redeeming or engaging about him, and the fact that his negative character traits were gradually revealed rather than laid out at the beginning made them even less palatable.My main problem with this novel, however, was that I just couldn't suspend my disbelief enough to buy major elements of the plot.
people, read this instead!!You feel so much for the trio of detectives trying to uncover the murder of a teenage girl atop a medieval altar in the woods.
Tana French establishes the whodunnit with elegant prose not fit for a bestseller (it is written more a-la Haute Literature than Global Bestseller a-la-mediocre) and the twists & turns are calibrated to hit the protagonist's psyche in clear-cut precision: he too was a victim in the same woods years earlier.
After 6 years it can't come soon enough...
She made a great partner because hey remember that time 20 years ago when my friends and I were in the woods and blah blah blah I want to tell you about all the people I work with and give you a brief description of each one of them and also explain in detail how my boss is and blah blah blah.
My mind is trying to remember what happened 20 years ago and you know Cassie and I are great partners and we're best friends and people think we're dating but blah blah blah.
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: Great characters and writing, but ends so bitter and depressing. (view spoiler)[We never do find out what happened 'In the Woods.' (hide spoiler)]
can i get a plaque??and i refuse to say why and how and when this book began to push my wrath-buttons, but push them it did, and those of you who have read this will understand me when i howl, (and maybe one of you can tell me why i am still watching lost when it started failing me like three seasons ago - but this is the diseased impulse we are working with here - i will see this second tana french book through, even though it is not doing for me what i had hoped the first one would do for me.
After much waiting and some significant 'biblio' peer pressure, I have finally decided to take the plunge into the world of Tana French and the Dublin Murder Squad.
The deeper Ryan and Maddox dig into the possible motives for the crime, the more suspects they unearth who might harbour the necessary grudge to kill young Katy.
After allowing myself to try at least one novel, I discovered that French tells a story that proves as gripping as some of the great European series I have discovered in the past couple of years.
Well, we get a tease at the beginning--little boy survives some sort of mysterious mischief in the local woods, the two friends with him are never seen again, and when he's found his shoes are filled with blood and he's unable to speak or recall anything.
Well, I got all involved in the story, even looked forward to finishing it by reading straight into the wee hours one night, and I could not believe the ending: we never find out what happened in the woods all those years ago, and we couldn't care less about the new murder that Bloody Shoes has solved now that he's all grown up.
I.... have no fucking clue how I felt about this book. Because, hey, beginning? Awesome.  Ending? Trash heap that ruined the book for me. Let’s talk. The first half of this book was - honestly - excellent. You can read a thousand reviews talking about it, so I’ll keep it short. The writing is honestly stunning, much better - in my opinion - than Gillian Flynn or Paula Hawkins’ styles. I had no clue where the mystery was going. And the lead characters, Rob Ryan and his partner / best friend Cassi
And the lead characters, Rob Ryan and his partner / best friend Cassie Maddox were super compelling - and no romance, bonus point!
I like the characters and I like the writing, so I should have liked this book, right?I am going to try to explain this as spoiler-free [and what spoilers exist are noted] as possible: the ending of this book is maybe one of the most unsatisfying things I have ever read in my whole life.
so the only actual thing that is wrapped up is the current case, which is the only thing in this entire goddamn book that wraps up and I still don’t like it.
It is this group dynamic, the interactions between Ryan and his partner Cassie Maddox and the other members of the squad, as well as the collection of witnesses, that elevates this to a more mature and satisfying novel.The little girl is found on an archeological site, being quickly mined and researched because of an interstate going in, and this sub-plot allows French to explore Irish culture, both present and ancient.
An example: the narrator, as a child, is found in the woods, his shoes full of blood, with his two best friends mysteriously missing.
He comes back years later as a detective to investigate another murder in the same small estate, and no one recognizes him including the mother of one of those best friends.
the murder of Katy Devlin is a McGuffin--a plot device that motivates the characters or advances the story, but the details of which are of little or no importance otherwise.
You guys can read some of the popular book bumpers with the great reviews and a million likes.
But take some time to read the non book bumpers that have a few likes with amazing reviews.
Tons of friends have loved this book and I'm glad you did, it just wasn't for me.
I'm not big on mystery books.
I will scroll through and like all of my friends reviews on the book regardless of what you thought.
So for now it's just liking friends who have reviewed or starred the same books.
So happy Reading and thank you to friends that still support me.
"Not any more. In ways too dark and crucial to be called metaphorical, I never left that wood."  I know that I ought to gather my thoughts to organize them or whatever I usually do before writing a review, especially when the last page let me shell-shocked as In the Woods did. But I can't. I'm leaving tomorrow and I'm not one for writing reviews weeks after having read the damn book. I'm actually in awe of people who manage to do just that. I think that it says something about me : in the end,
I know that I ought to gather my thoughts to organize them or whatever I usually do before writing a review, especially when the last page let me shell-shocked as In the Woods did.
God, this book let me so fucking sad.
Yes, actually, I did, but again, it changes nothing to the way I feel right now, to the sheer awe still palpable in me when I'm writing these (clumsy) words.
I'm just so sick of writing that, it's not perfect but - god, I'm so fed up with that sentence and I write it way too often.
This book is tricksy.Rob Ryan is a veteran homicide detective with the Dublin police along with his best friend and partner, Cassie Maddox, and the two start working a case involving a young girl found murdered at the site of an archaeological dig.
When they find a piece of evidence that seems like it could link their fresh murder to the disappearance of his friends, Rob and Cassie decide to keep this under wraps so that they can investigate without potentially dragging up Rob’s history while they determine if the two crimes are related.But that’s only part of it.
My heart ached for the two children who never returned home from their beloved woods, who were never found again and the way the tragedy of their mystifying disappearance dealt a crushing blow to the life of their traumatized playmate who returned unharmed.
But this book took my breath away with its ability to instill so much life in each one of its characters that their distress became my own, with its ornate but never ostentatious prose and the way it deftly narrated a story infused with the dull shades of a sadness so affecting.
The plot is really gripping but I lost the pull when the main character decided that it’s more “interesting” to whine endlessly, bathing in self-loathing while I really REALLY wanted to know what happened further in the investigation.
Memorable characters I can root for(or hate a lot!).The story centers upon two colleagues and best friends at the same time, they supplement each other, they are interesting and fun to observe.
All in all, this book is not a happy story, but it is a gripping read with suspense, interesting detective spices, peculiar and mostly charming character development, disturbing insight into what’s behind the nice surface of the ordinary life.
Nataliya's lovely review reminded me what I was missing (here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...)For a first book, Woods is impressive, not only because French takes risks with her narrative.
I won't say too much more except that it was extremely well done (view spoiler)[ and the character I loved at the beginning, I almost hated by the end.
(hide spoiler)]I love French's writing; the vivid descriptions, the integration of memories into narrative and her character development of her primary characters.
Although I never deliberately avoid spoilers, for some reason I had not read any reviews before starting Woods that discussed various issues with the ending.
*4.5/5*This took me ages to read, but I loved it! There was one small plot point that annoyed me a bit, but other than that it was perfect. I barely ever read murder mysteries, but after this I definitely want to read more!
Rob Ryan and Cassie Maddox are partners and best friends on the Dublin Murder Squad, detectives who catch all the murders that come down the pipe.
Complicating things is the fact that Rob Ryan used to be Adam Ryan, a lad whose friends disappeared one afternoon, their bodies never found.In the Woods is very well written and it could be read as simply a police procedural, and it would have been a very good one.
When the truth behind Katy's death was revealed, it was even more chilling than I'd imagined.(view spoiler)[French really saw me coming when the Ryan-Maddox relationship took a turn.
A very well-constructed and impressive debut novel.
I had a bittersweet moment near the end when I realized that my theory from near the start of the book was correct; happy to be right, but also a bit bummed that I had figured it out.
It wasn't much of a twist for me, but I honestly don't know how I solved it so early on.
Don't let that keep you from reading this book.
There were still quite a few surprising moments that didn't deal directly with the mystery, and those were incredibly satisfying.
It really is a great novel—a mystery with many layers, characters with depth, and beautiful writing.
I rarely if ever have reading experiences that primal; I'm usually analyzing the character development, narrative, even the margins and the design of the book, all from a safe remove, sort of like a naturalist perched in a camouflaged blind, studying.In the Woods, Tana French's debut novel which launched her "Dublin Murder Squad" series in 2007, knocked me out of my observation post with the locomotive power and cunning of a rhinoceros, or maybe a wild boar.
The narrator is Robert Ryan, a competent if aloof young detective with the "Murder Squad." He has a secret only five others know: Rob was born Adam Ryan and on August 14, 1984, while playing in the woods of Knocknaree in County Dublin, disappeared with his friends Peter Savage and Germaine "Jamie" Rowan.
All these books are very dark mysteries/psychological thrillers and they all are as much about particular crimes the narrators investigate as they are about the narrators themselves, a disturbed bunch.Rob Ryan, a detective on the Dublin Murder squad, and his partner Cassie Maddox are assigned to investigate a murder of a pre-teen girl.
The thing is, the girl's body is found in the same woods where 20 years prior Rob's two best childhood friends disappeared.
Is it a good idea at all for Rob to be involved in this case?In the Woods is a very strong debut novel.
As close as they are—and they ARE close—Cassie knows nothing of this part of his past.Rob tells US his story, however, and reminisces often about the idyllic summer days when he and Peter and Jamie played in the woods, taking picnics to the old castle, climbing trees, free to explore as long as they were home for dinner.
When he does, this sends his mind off in another direction in the past.They begin by investigating all of the people on the dig site and the family.
This is going to sound silly (this book did win the Edgar Award after all), but don’t read this for the mystery.
Don’t read this if you need everything explained.Read this if you like to be consumed by a character – so consumed that you fall completely into his point of view.
It almost felt like being betrayed over and over again by someone I trusted.Even the mystery looked different this time around.
They have no limits.Don’t read the sequel to this book for its mystery either – again, you’ll be disappointed.
Tana French writes beautifully, but in a way that does not hinder the flow of the story.
I know I will never forget Rob Ryan.Ms. French writes her characters with a great deal of psychological overlay.
Many readers who did not give the book a good rating had issues relating to a singular loose end in the plot.
The ending was true to the character of Rob Ryan; anything else would have been Hollywood.
All the other issues were wrapped up beautifully.I think Tana French writes masterfully.
I strongly recommend In the Woods to everyone interested in a hauntingly compelling, character-driven, slow burner of a story.
Adam Ryan is a pretty compact, if cool name.
That's the name of our main protagonist.
His trials are deep, both when he was a boy, and also when he is working in the police force.From the point of view of a reader who has read the books in disorder, there are many ah moments.
This book must have demanded a lot from its author.I say that because it's not easy to pry open the genie in the bottle and ask for inspiration as a favor.
I want to join NaNoWriMo when I read books like this.
What I am telling you, before you begin my story, is this - two things: I crave truth. And I lie. 4.5 starsIf I ever hear anyone say that murder mysteries are never well-written or literary I will shove this book in their face. I devoured this rather large gem within a couple days and found myself thinking about it long after I had finished.I can see how this book will only be enjoyed by a certain type of reader. If you’re annoyed by metaphors, similes and other literary devices or don’t like w
What his supervisors don’t know however, is that the case hits a bit too close to home for Rob: twenty years earlier two kids disappeared in those same woods where the young girl was murdered, two kids who coincidentally happened to be Rob’s best childhood friends.
I found her to be such an empowering female character: dynamic and full of life, witty and intelligent, kind yet not naïve.For me the best thing about this book (and I would argue for most readers) is the friendship between Rob and Cassie.
