https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59825.Inner_Harbor
Thankfully, the last book in the series is Seth's and I can't wait to see how that will work out.
I wouldn't have it any other way.Nora did wonderful job with this series and I hope I will love the last one like I love these.► STORY:Boat business is progressing greatly and they are all happy.
But Gloria is somewhere in the vicinity and Quinn brothers try to find a way to deal with that situation.But aside from Gloria, there is another woman who takes a lot of interest in new member of Quinn family.
In fact, to observe Seth and see how he fits in his new family.
This book finishes off the trilogy (although Nora wrote an extension set almost twenty years later. I love an author who knows how to take an encore.)  Of the three this is my least favorite. Although it had that stomach clenching element of 'her with a secret that will hurt him' that I love in a romance, it just didn't flow quite right. Maybe I just expected too much. Or maybe it was the reader on the audiobook. I'll probably try it again someday with just my own two eyes and the voices in my head. Lol!
Phil no es mi hermano favorito pero sin duda tiene un hueco en mi corazón. El personaje mejor construido es el de Sybill, es tan complejo, tan humano... verla desprenderse de todo sentido común ha sido divertido y absorbente.
Part of him resented Seth for causing so many changes, but his duty to his family, and his love for them, keeps him doing what he knows he should do.
And when Sybill arrives on the scene, things get even more confusing.Of the three original Quinn brothers, Phillip is my least favorite.
If it hadn't been for the continuing story of Seth and the overall tale of the Quinn brothers, I probably wouldn't have enjoyed this book nearly as much.
He's a character that just really sticks with you.Overall, reading about the Quinn family is such a treat.
"Now he was getting himself twisted up over a woman none of them knew they could trust if things got sticky.
He for one was going to keep a close eye on Sybill Griffin."Book 3 in the Saga of the Quinn brothers is given from Phillip's perspective.
From his sketchy upbringing to the fortuitous events that led to him meeting Ray and Stella Quinn, which eventually became the foundation of the successful life he has today.It also continues the family's continued battle with youngest brother Seth's estranged and drug-addicted mother for custody.Nora Roberts writes great, if not extremely quick & fairly predictable, romance stories.
It also carries on the series tradition of having a quirk or two that was at least mildly off-putting for my enjoyment.I ended up liking Philip more than I expected to.
Fortunately, he's much better than the other books lead me to expect, though he is, yes, an urbanite pretty-boy with expensive tastes.
I didn't like his late-book development (view spoiler)[of emotional terror of commitment.
From the early book anticipation of the inevitable crash to the middle book (view spoiler)[stupidity and irrationality regarding Gloria to the late book fragility I just wasn't drawn to her at all.
(hide spoiler)] These things were small, though, and I did like her in the end.
These are not 3 cookie cutter stories where everything is the same in all the books.
Each has it's own way of telling the story even though they all focus on the theme of family.
Each brother gives up something from his lifestyle to find that connection with family and Seth.
IMO, it's a good conclusion to the mystery of Seth's parentage and the resolution of his guardianship.
I enjoyed the romance between Phillip and Sybill.
And I was happy to see the relationship between Sybill and Seth formed too.
I look forward to reading Seth's story in Chesapeake Blue.
. I have been along on the Quinn brother’s journey to becoming a strong and close family since the sudden death of their adopted father, Ray Quinn and it feels as if they are now my friends, who I care for and want to ultimately see happy.The 3rd book tells the story of Phillip Quinn, the sophisticated, stylish, and gorgeous advertising man, that likes designer labels and good wine [image error][image error]and who has pushed away the ugliness and horrors of his past before he was rescued and saved by Ray and Stella Quinn to become a person of worthDr Sybill Griffin, a well-know socialist and author arrives in the area supposedly to do research for her next book.
Quick fix doesn't necessarily need to be shallow as well.
I know there are good romantic writers out there, just I haven't had my luck.
And the fourth brother SETH, with his upper DC class girlfriend Drusilla.
And Seth is like - new Jackson Pollock.
And then Roberts tries to be smart as hell, and she starts writing about Seth's paintings.
In Paris you’ll paint Eiffel tower, because you know, c’est la vie.
Because you really have to be a dumbass to like it so much to give it more than 2 stars.
Como puede invertir tanto tiempo en averiguar que el chico viva bien, sin preguntarse cómo fue a parar allí y cómo eran sus condiciones de vida con Gloria, la madre de Seth.
Con Sybill la química es cero y si no la compré al principio, menos voy a aceptar el paquete completo del final.Sybil no pinta nada en esa familia, y siento lo mismo que cuando Anna pasó a ser una Quinn.
Yo no me lo creo, y no me gusta que a Phillip le haya tocado una historia así.
It was a satisfying conclusion to the big mystery about Ray Quinn and Seth. I'm just happy all our questions were answered.As for the romance in this book.... meh.I relate more to Sybill than to Anna or Grace but I found her incredibly naïve and her constant groveling was annoying. I really don't care about Phillip either, he could have been a bit more complex and troubled than he was.Overall a good series. I probably won't read the 4th book about Seth after he's grown up, I'm content leaving it as is.
I loved Chesapeake Bay Saga series and I was caught up with the overriding question: How is Seth related to Ray Quinn?
Finally we get an answer to that question and Phillip Quinn meets his match in Sybill.
It was wonderful to watch Phillip, the urbane, sophisticate, fall for the analytical, distant Sybill.
I could just hear her when Sybill went all analytical on Phillip.
Her growth as a woman and coming to terms with her family and Phillip was a high point of the book.Dr. Sybill Griffith, a renowned author and psychologist comes to town to do a study on the social mores of small town life.
She takes an interest in the Quinns' and in particular, Phillip.
But then it all kind of fell apart right around the time Sybill's true identity came out.
A lot differently.If these books had just been about the three brothers and how the Quinns took them in at an early age and now they're all grown up, etc.
I would've been maybe, if it had just been one book that dealt with it, instead of that storyline being spread out over all three books.However, I did like that aspect of the books a lot more here than in the previous two.
Maybe because that part finally came to a conclusion.
I enjoyed this one mostly for the relationship of these foster brothers. I adore Seth and can't wait to get to his book.
me están gustando todos los libros de la saga muchísimo, los 4 hermanos son maravillosos con una niñez complicada... una familia estupenda. Me encantan
3.5*While far from amazing, this one is the best one in the series so far.... Too dramatic, as usual, but not as over-the-top as the previous two books! I liked both main characters... Finally some conclusion to the family drama , even though there is one more book (although i think that one was written much later?) ...
Ich habe dieses Mal ein kleines Experiment gewagt und gleichzeitig zum Buch auch das Hörbuch gehört.
Seth, der Jüngste, ist einfach zum knuddeln und die Hunde der Familie sind noch ein witziger Bonus.Der Schreibstil der Autorin lässt einen richtig miterleben.
Durch das Lesen der ungekürzten Geschichte kommen einem die Charaktere noch so viel näher und einige Szenen würde ich sehr deutlich anders interpretieren, als ich es beim Hörbuch hören getan habe.
Die Kürzungen fallen beim Hören nicht sehr auf, nur wenn man wie ich das Buch noch hinterher liest, merkt man den Unterschied.

★★★★✩ Another 4 star read from this series, IMHO. Yes, the first one is the  best  (mainly b/c Phillip is a bit of an asshat toward Sybill in a few scenes - one deserved and one crucial time, not deserved - with not enough groveling later); however, a five star rating system makes it difficult to differentiate the subtle difference in ranking. I continued to enjoy Guy Lemonier’s narration of this saga of the boat-building Quinn family living in Chesapeake Bay, Maryland. And, finally, some answer
★★★★✩ Another 4 star read from this series, IMHO. Yes, the first one is the 
  best
 (mainly b/c Phillip is a bit of an asshat toward Sybill in a few scenes - one deserved and one crucial time, not deserved - with not enough groveling later); however, a five star rating system makes it difficult to differentiate the subtle difference in ranking. I continued to enjoy Guy Lemonier’s narration of this saga of the boat-building Quinn family living in Chesapeake Bay, Maryland. And, finally, some answers about Seth.
*Buddy listening with Blacky <333*Six months has passed since the first book Sea Swept. This is Phillip's, the urban and sophisticate brother, book. Like the other two books this book revolve around Seth's guardianship and even though Philip and Sybill romance isn't my favorite of the series, all the things related to Seth keeps it a favorite of mine.
*review posted here:* https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This is the final book in the series for me to read, and it allowed it all to come together. I love the Quinn family and I love how Nora had Ray's spirit make an appearance in this book. I feel like the afterlife connection makes a huge impact. Especially on those of us readers who are spiritual. A great book and a wonderful series. Sad to see the Quinns go, but I have other Nora series to finish and I love all her characters to the same degree.
No me he creído su historia de amor. Todo pasa demasiado rápido. No he llegado a conectar con Sybill, y aunque es un personaje con sus propios traumas, sencilla y fuerte, no terminó de llenarme. Phill es estupendo, como todos los Quinn. Se resuelve, por fin, la trama y de manera coherente. Entretiene pero el romance es muy flojo.
Een 9 vanwege de tranen met tuiten die ik heb gehuild zo'n beetje door het hele boek heen. Het is zo heerlijk om te lezen, zo ontspannen en romantisch. Hier wordt dat een 8.
As a stand-alone book, it was lacking, but it was good because it finished unresolved issues from the first two books.THE SERIES:The Chesapeake Bay series includes four books which tell a continuing story about a family.
In the beginning of the first book Ray took in another boy, 10-year-old Seth, who was abused by his mother Gloria.
In the first three books each of the three men meets and falls in love with a woman.
The fourth book tells the story of Seth, who is grown, returns home and falls in love.
Phillip Quinn, is a city boy, he works in the city during the week and then comes homes during weekends to assist his brothers in their booming business of building wood boats and ships.
But will those secrets tear their family apart including the young boy whom they have let into their home and their hearts.I will be honesty, this is by far my favorite of the saga so far.
Through certain events, both Phillip and Sybill come to realize that even though their love and feelings are fresh, they are strong, and strong enough to survive any challenge that is ahead of them.
Por detrás desta máscara de requinte, encontra-se um homem gentil, meigo, com uma capacidade surpreendente para perdoar e um coração enorme.
E depois há o elo misterioso entre Sybil e Seth, que, quando finalmente revelado, revela o motivo pela sua adoção pela família Quinn.
Todas estas revelações acerca do passado de Seth são surpreendentes mas acabam por ocupar uma grande parte do livro, sobrando menos tempo para o desenvolvimento da relação entre Phillip e Sybil.
Mesmo assim, adorei este casal e os seus momentos apaixonantes!A cada livro que leio desta saga mais me rendo à dinâmica adorável da família Quinn, com toda a sua cumplicidade, companheirismo, amizade e amor puro.
When attractive anthropologist, Dr Sybill Griffin, turns up in St Chris, Phillip is pleasantly surprised that she’s interested in him.
But the outwardly friendly Sybill has a cold, calculating side and appears to have another agenda involving Seth, something of which none of the Quinns are aware.
The likeable characters from the first two books expand (Phillip has a few surprises for the reader), there are some hot sex scenes and the dialogue between the characters is, as before, a real source of humour.
Readers keen to know what happens to Seth will want to read his story in Chesapeake Blue.
I liked this more in-depth look at Philip, and I also liked his romantic interest, Sybil, even if she is a bit cold and shut down for most of the book.
Nora also does a great job pulling us into the setting, giving us a more clinical look at small-town life through the eyes Sybil, an outsider.
The one element of this series I could do without is the ghostly Papa Quinn, especially since he is one of the few ghosts who have a solid form capable of giving someone a boost up a wall.
This is one of her more solid series.
Sybill finds Phillip intriguing, but she is used to a life kept apart and observing, but although Phillip appears the cool sophisticate, there is something hot and wild under his exterior.OPINION: This was an enjoyable read, but the story stays on the surface between these characters and thus is not as memorable as it could have been.Phillip is a sly man.
She is a harder to get to know, but I thought the book explored her character better than Phillip.I did really like how the relationship between these two developed, I just wanted more.The book also wraps up Sean's story.
