https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6609765-out-of-my-mind
In fact, a lot of dialogue struck me as unrealistic (i.e. an adult's version of what she thinks modern kids sound like).
However, I still stand by droppin' the g in trippin' and kids not calling things tight or "all that." I've re-read sections of the book and I think it's Draper's overuse of exclamation points that makes her characters sound corny.)3.
The villains in this story (Molly and Claire, the bad teachers and the stupid psychologist that gives Melody her initial intelligence test) are totally one-dimensional.
And I think it's important for kids to read stories told from a perspective like Melody's because it opens their minds and hearts.
*Melody has a wonderful neighbor named Violet who taught her to do things she couldn't.
*Melody has a very loving mom and dad.
Melody's next door neighbor, Violet, would watch her when she was little while her parents worked.
I think he might be sniffling back a couple of tears himself.But he has recorded it all.At one point in one of the classes, Melody wants to try out for the Quiz Team.
Anyway, Melody's little Medi-Talker also prints out anything she types if she wants it to so she can participate in class and all kinds of things.
Melody lacks complexity as a character -- she's brilliant in kind of an Encyclopedia Brown way, with a photographic memory, the ability to retain anything she learns, and perfect spelling.
If we believe that Melody has instant facility with spoken language -- or learned how to use a complex speech device in a single weekend without the support of a speech pathologist -- it makes no sense that Melody wouldn't have been able to communicate effectively with her family and peers.
I just can't believe it of her -- and I think it doesn't recognize the many nonverbal people who DO communicate and advocate for themselves effectively despite massive physical impairments.
I really enjoyed this! It's perfect for fans of Wonder by R.J. Palacio, and I think this should be required reading in elementary schools. Really powerful.
I can't even begin to explain the importance of this book and how it has the power to influence so many people in how they treat others. I honestly don't even have words to describe my feelings for this book just yet, but once I do, I plan on screaming them from the rooftops so that everyone reads this book.
Not only do I get to look at books all day, but I get to borrow.
Very exciting!I see some weird judgemental reviews here on this book.
This book educates.
This book is fiction.
This book should be required reading for Primary school age.
This is highly recommended reading for humans of all ages.
What's yours?"“What would you do if you could fly?” Mrs. V asks…“I’d be scared to let go,” I type.“Afraid you’d fall?” she asks.“No. Afraid it would feel so good, I’d just fly away”.
It took me a long time to type that.
I felt like a terrible person the entire time I read this book because I disliked it so much, especially since I think that it's an important book and a really thoughtful book in many ways.
I was impressed with the author for writing a story from the perspective of someone with cerebral palsy, and thought she did a great job of expressing the difficulties of living with that condition.
The book had really great potential, and I still think that the perspective is important to tell, but I haven't disliked a character so much since I had to suffer through The Girls from Ames.
I wonder what made her do that, like did she really believe that these kids even if they were 'special' weren't smart enough to understand these songs.
Like what this girl (Clarie) in the book said,"I'm not trying to be mean--honest--but it just never occurred to me that Melody had thoughts in her head."(pg.143) This makes me wonder of how many other people out there think that, that how just beacuse a person is in a wheel cahir or has disabilities you assume that they must not be smart or even think.
Sizden bu kitabı okumanızı rica edeceğim.
Çünkü gerçekten kaç gündür okurken mahvoluyorum.
İnsanlığımızdan daha doğrusu insan sandığımız yanlarımızdan utandım.
Çünkü biliyorum ki bu kitapta anlatılanlar bir yerlerde gerçekten birilerinin başına geliyor.
Mucize'yi okuduysanız ve sevdiyseniz bu kitabı daha çok seveceğinizi söyleyebilirim size.
Daha gerçekçi çünkü daha acımasız.
Mucize'nin sonundaki mucizeyi bu kitapta beklemeyin.
Çünkü bu kitapta bir mucize gerçekleşmeyecek.
Pes etmeyen, muhteşem kalpli Melody'nin hayatı gerçekten çok zor.
İnanın doğru kelimeleri bulup bu kitabı anlatamıyorum.
Çünkü ben böyle konularda çok hassasım.
Ve bu kitap daha doğrusu küçücük çocukların, koca koca insanların davranışları tam olarak bam telime dokundu.
Kitabı kesinlikle tavsiye ediyorum.
When I began elementary school, that was the first time I ever heard the word "retarded" and it was aimed at students similar to my mother's.
She let me make up my own mind.Reading this book made me think a lot about my mother and her students.
It also reminded me of a girl I went to elementary school with who is very much like Melody.
I couldn't get that girl out of my mind while reading this book, and I probably won't get Melody out of my mind for a long time to come.
I feel a bit heartless.After reading all the Newbery-hype about Out of My Mind, I went into it expecting an absolutely life-changing book about cerebral palsy.
are particularly heartfelt, especially in the opening chapters of the books when the details of their complex relationship are unveiled.
Bad: As an educator, I am appalled by the portrayal of teachers in this book.
Good: Melody is super-smart, and though other reviewers have found that to be a bit of a stretch, I think it's an extremely salient distinction for Draper to make.
It felt very last second.Good: Melody's comeuppance in the end.
Past tense until chapter 10.
Cuando empecé este libro no tenía idea de que iba la trama, y me sorprendió mucho enterarme de que l
Since EVERY SINGLE teacher (sans one, three paragraph, mention of a third grade teacher who liked to play books on tape for Melody) is a HORRIBLE HUMAN BEING.
Not even bad teachers...like awful, horrible, despicable people.
Melody's mom could actually SUE the school for their level of disregard for her education.Like firing.
THe SH*& has hit the fan type of stuff here.But to write about it like that's just the way education is?
This book is stuck in some sort of 80s after-school-special time-warp where the bullies are the cool kids and you can still say "retard".
I highly recommend this book to everybody, but especially to disabled kids, kids who know disabled kids, anyone who works with disabled kids, especially non-verbal/speech impaired disabled people and people with cerebral palsy or similar neurological motor conditions.This is an absolutely wonderful book that almost made my favorites shelf.
This children’s novel is narrated by Melody, almost eleven years old, who has a photographic memory and synesthesia (she sees colors and tastes flavors when she hears music), and she is highly intelligent, but because she has cerebral palsy, she cannot talk or write or walk.
Por un lado mucha rabia con los antagonistas del libro, y por otro tristeza, porque si bien la historia de la protagonista es ficción, representa la discriminación y el menosprecio que sufren las personas con capacidades diferentes.Ojalá fuera más conocido de lo que ya es, y se leyera en los colegios como lectura obligatoria.
”Nunca deja de maravillarme cómo los adultos dan por sentado que no puedo oír.
Hablan acerca de mí como si yo fuera invisible, suponiendo que soy demasiado retardada como para entender su conversación.”“Una persona es mucho más que un diagnóstico en una historia clínica!” ❤️“Conocía muchas palabras pero no podía leer un libro.
Müthişti. Tereddüte düşmeden alın, okuyun.
When her school starts an inclusion program where the special needs kids can join classrooms and get a chance to interact with others, Melody gets a teacher named who runs the Whiz Kids Quiz team.
When Melody and her parents arrive at the airport, they find out that their flight is cancelled and the other kids had already left.
The next day, when Melody and her mother is about to leave for school, only Melody sees Penny, her little sister, running out of the house.
When Melody arrives at school, the members of the quiz team try to apologize.
Man. Kids can be such jerks.
Here I was thinking it’s going to be one of those cute middle school books that’s all  la, la, la, la  and  sharing is caring,  but damn, was I wrong.Imagine living in a world where you cannot voice your thoughts?
She has a dire thirst for knowledge, information, words, ideas, and it’s just so wonderful to read about.Middle school can be a tough time for most of us.
And Melody has to put up with all the usual middle school problems along with difficulties of her own.
What I loved most about this book was that we actually got to see the world, day in day out, from Melody’s point of view.
when i read this book, i am expecting chessey tear jearking kind of book.
thats why it takes me so long to read this book.
i am surprise.
it is not chessey at all.
rather it is honest, heartwarming and innocent kind of book.
the point of view is from 10 years old kind.
and at the end i fall in love with melody.
i never think about words as much as it is now.
even i am perferfectly capable talking, there are times where i am like melody.
struggling with words.
can not express my anger, my thought.
good book.
I had never read any book by Sharon M.
Other kids who don't live the life that Melody lives can't really understand, even if they think they can, and if they're not willing to take the time to look deeper and see how smart and how good Melody is in the ways that matter, then Melody will, ultimately, be the one who pays for their ignorance by not having friends.
Out of My Mind is one of the deepest, strongest, most innately profound books that I have had the privilege to read in a very, very long time.
She is a mop for facts and ideas, which eventually is discovered when two seminal events occur: first, she and her school aide find a Medi-Talker computer, and then, she is finally introduced into inclusion classes at Spaulding Street Elementary School.
Much like August, she has to endure the taunts of classmates, the ignorance of doctors and teachers, and some enormous emotional highs and lows, but she is able to endure and excel with loving support from her parents, baby sister, a neighbor/caregiver (Mrs. Valencia), and her college-aged aide, Catherine.It is no accident that this book has been one of the NY Times bestseller lists for two years.
Senden Önce Ben, Kitap Hırsızı ve İçimdeki Müzik..Şimdi kitapla ilgili bazı yanlış anlaşılmaları ortadan kaldırmak istiyorum.Başta şunu söylemeliyim: Bu bir çocuk kitabı değil.
Belki kapağı veya ismi yüzünden bir çocuk kitabı olduğunu düşünebilirsiniz.
Mutlu bir hikaye beklemeyin.
Her şeyin harika gittiği bir kitap beklemeyin.
Sonunda iyilerin kazanıp kötülerin kaybettiği bir hikaye olmadığını bilin.
Yoksa çok büyük hayal kırıklığına uğrarsınız.Eğer klişe bir hikaye okuyacağınızı düşünüyorsanız bu düşünceden hemen kurtulun.
Bu kitap son derece gerçekçi konuları ele almış.Mucize'yi okumuş ve çok sevmiş biriyseniz bu kitabı tereddüt etmeden okunacaklar listesine ekleyin.
Mucize'den daha çok sevebilirsiniz.
"I pensieri hanno bisogno di parole.
Le parole hanno bisogno di voce.
Io adoro il profumo dei capelli appena lavati della mamma.
Adoro sentire la barba ispida del papà, prima che si rada.
Ma non ho mai potuto dirglielo."Melody ha quasi undici anni e non ha mai potuto parlare, è costretta a vivere su una sedia a rotelle e riesce a muovere bene solo i suoi pollici.
È la ragazzina più intelligente della scuola, eppure nessuno lo sa.Ho amato Melody, quasi come se fosse una mia piccola amica.
Sharon M.
Drapper is a fantastic writer!
She always covers difficult topics and characters and does it with ease and pleasure to read.
My goal is to eventually have read every book by her :)"Melody is not like most people.
She cannot walk or talk, but she has a photographic memory; she can remember every detail of everything she has ever experienced.
She is smarter than most of the adults who try to diagnose her and smarter than her classmates in her integrated classroom - the very same classmates who dismiss her as mentally challenged because she cannot tell them otherwise.
But Melody refuses to be defined by cerebral palsy.
The book Out of my mind is the saddest book I've read, ever.
Melody can't talk though, she has i the biggest and brightest mind in her grade if not school!!
One day Melody finds out about this Medi- talker thing and wants it so bad, after 30 minutes or so of trying to figure out what Melody wants by pointing hysterically at the computer, her mom orders it.
Once the Medi-talker comes in the mail Melody feels like she can now finally express herself.
I recommend this book to people who love on/off switches of sad to happy (but mostly happy :), I loved this book and I think you should read it to.
It is about a girl named Melody who has cerebral paly's and can't walk, talk, or move - except for her fists a little bit, she is in a wheelchair to.
In the middle of the book she finally gets a medi-talker so she can program words into it and type words and it will talk for her.
A girl named Claire thinks that Catherine just cheats for Melody on work so she will get good grades.
Whoever gets the highest score on the practice test gets to have a candy bar, but whoever gets the highest score on the real test gets to be on the team.
Melody, the main character, has cerebral palsy and can hardly move and can't speak, but she has a lot to say, not to mention a photographic memory.
When she receives a computer that can be used as a communication tool, her classmates have mixed reactions to her newly heard voice and she proves her intelligence as time goes on.Melody is a strong character that anyone who has ever felt different or limited in some way can relate to.
I don't know a lot about cerebral palsy but from what I understand, there are different variations of it and I think that Draper was very accurate in her writing.
Draper - 5/5 stars.Have you ever felt like an outcast and all you want to be is normal just for a day even if that's what everyone around you tells you that you're better off without being normal?Let me begin with saying that I really enjoyed this book so much!
This book was am eye opener for me.
Like a real regular school with kids that function with norm standards.
Melody impresses the norm kids with her intelligence and finally gets to be part of a whiz competition.
The friendships that Melody made were great.
Melody è un libro bellissimo.
La cosa è che mi ha colpito di più è che l’autrice (da brava cronista) non omette nulla sulle difficoltà che una bambina come Melody deve affrontare.
La scrittura è cruda, realistica, non indora la pillola, sconvolge e lascia senza parole, perché i così detti “normali” si comportano in modo cattivo, meschino, chiuso e spesso feriscono senza accorgersene.
Si perché Melody, con le sue difficoltà, mi ha intenerito il cuore… ho provato pena per lei e questo è stato un mio grossissimo errore.
Melody non va compatita, va ammirata per la sua forza, la sua gioia di vivere, il suo estro e la sua bontà!
