https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/628801.Expensive_People
Le persone responsabili dei disastri sono sempre quelle che desiderano, ma non sanno cosa e men che mai come ottenerloCredo di sapere che cosa farò con gli ultimi due capitoli dell'epopea americana, ne leggerò solo le postfazioni.
Se aggiungessero che le vicende si svolgono in America (non ricordo se mid, up, east o west) negli anni 60 e che quel narratore è mentitamene un maschio (perché si tratta di Joyce Carol Oates) ciò aumenterebbe il vostro interesse?Fornisco queste informazioni perché se ne fossi stato in possesso non avrei messo il libro in lettura.C’è una falsa partenza, occorreranno alcuni capitoli prima dell'incipit vero e proprio.Una Cadillac gialla si accosta al marciapiede di Labyrinth Drive.
The opening line — “I was a child murderer” — effectively hooks the reader and the first few chapters are well written, but the story quickly spirals out of control.
unfortunately, said character makes Holden Caulfield look sympathetic.Expensive People is a cutting satire of ‘60s suburban life, and it is a meta look at the writing process.
It would help if these characters were likable, but they’re not.
The opening and closing chapters of this slog are as good as anything she has ever written, and for that I did not give this one star.
Completamente differente lo stile della Oates nel secondo capitolo dell'Epopea americana, ambientato negli anni 60, gli anni della costruzione e dell'ostentazione del benessere economico, e focalizzato sui tre personaggi che costituiscono una tipica famiglia wasp americana: bianchi, ricchi e pseudointellettualiMa il narratore qui è un ragazzo che si definisce, fin da subito, un "bambino assassino" e che ripercorre nel racconto la parabola distruttiva e autodistruttiva del suo rapporto nevrotico con la madre: una madre bella, insoddisfatta, arrivista, ansiosa di migliorare il proprio status, percorsa allo stesso modo dalla brama di sedurre e dalla brama di scrivere e ascendere così all'olimpo degli autori più significativi della nuova narrativa americana.
"Expensive People" (the second book in the "Wonderland Quartet") is a dark social comedy with well-off suburbia as a stage and a cast of unlikeable, larger than life characters who make an appearance of being regular folks, but they are monsters of their making.
When the story ends, I found myself wondering if this kid hallucinated the whole ordeal as the unstable mind of this particular young man is fertile ground for such things...it is a haunting book.
I really like JCO's early work more than her most recent, at the same time they're brilliant, complex, and spellbinding, there's that rawness about them that is just...brutal.
Hmpf. I don't know. It started great, went very well for some while. I started liking the characters, the scene and the plot. Then suddenly came two or three intermezzi (chapters with totally different plot and style...why?) and after this I somehow got lost and couldn't connect with the characters anymore. Hm, nope, sorry.
Il mondo dei ricchi visto con gli occhi di un bambino problematico.
Con genitori molto assenti e troppo preoccupati di apparire in società, Richard sviluppa un morboso attaccamento alla madre, che finirà per smarrirlo completamente e farà di lui un infelice.
Nonostante il tema possa sembrare particolarmente drammatico e cupo, il registro narrativo di J.C.Oates è brillante e ironico, la scelta di usare un bambino troppo maturo per la sua età per descrivere questa coppia squinternata è perfetta.
Ci sono molti momenti divertenti e alcuni episodi irresistibili (la storia dello sfigatissimo cagnolino Spark è un gioiellino di comicità).
Seven years following the death of his mother, 18-year-old Richard Everett bluntly tells his audience that he was a child murderer.
A severely obese recluse, Richard never fit in with the images of grandeur put forth by his father, a boastful professor and mother, a beautiful and mysterious writer.
His psychosis reaches dangerous heights when his beloved mother proves deceptive and vain, obsessed with maintaining social status.
This book proves chilling and thought-provoking as the closely-observed narrator offers a compelling glimpse into the mind of a seemingly normal kid turned violent.
It also offers an important lesson to suburban families, candidly stating that material wealth and social status cannot compensate for love and support.
From promising beginnings, it ... drags on. This novel may have been more significant and ground-breaking when it first came out. We know how suffocating suburbia is by now, countless other books and movies have taught us this. The portraits painted are exquisite but leave me unaffected: no one is particularly compelling. We pity the narrator but we don't like him. The narrative style entertains in the beginning but like the narrator himself suggests, yes, the digressions do annoy
He tells the reader at the start that, while still a child, he committed murder, and eventually it becomes clear that (view spoiler)[the writing of his memoir is a prelude to suicide (hide spoiler)].His parents are odd and he struggles with his love for them despite their destructive relationship and acting out which draws him in.
Yet it becomes clear as time passes within the story that she doesn't actually know what she wants - as shown by her continual affairs behind her husband's back - which Richard becomes privy to - and her occasional departures with a packed suitcase when her suburban existence and the presence of husband and son become too suffocating.

(Normally the self-referential narrator doesn't bother me, but I don't think I've encountered it being done so heavily before.)I think that the plot itself would have made a wonderful novella or short story -- there was enough going on that you'd have characters that were fully-developed enough for that purpose, but to my mind there wasn't enough development for a novel-length work (some of the room given to the narrator going on about how he couldn't write would have been put to better use if it was used for character development).I read the original version of this, not the Modern Library re-release (Oates has gone through those and edited her young self).
But what disappointed me about them was mostly missing in this book: The character and narrative were consistent and made me care; there was a minimum of the "I don't know what's going on and I'm wandering around in a mist" first-person narrative (well, it was still there in this book, with the protagonist feeling as if he were "asleep" or "waiting" for most of his life, but it was consistent with his personality and didn't feel forced, nor did it get in the way of the story or the character exposition); and the book doesn't get lost halfway through and meander around trying to find the trail again.Consistently though, the story deals heavily with a lot of the same themes.
It was a really powerful story written in the '60's about disillusioned wealthy youth which could've been written today.
The story of a very rich boy from a dysfunctional family (although this is done so much better than the usual fare) who is obsessed with his beautiful mother, Joyce Carol Oates has gone above and beyond the usual.
This is the last book I've read in the Wonderland Quartet, about American people changing in the mid 20th century and altho they can be read out of order and stand on their own, I read this last....altho it was #2.
The "plot" wanders though, sometimes in a seemingly aimless manner, but always culminating with an attention grabbing cliff hanger, a one line conclusion to the chapter that snaps the reader back to the story at hand: how the eleven year old child murdered killed his 'parent'.I read the first 80% of the ebook on the treadmill (which is something I reserve for young adult novels and not serious works that I intend to closely examine).
I'm certainly going to read more of her work in the future.PS: Nada is neither an infantile nor a strange name, thank you very much.
(2.5) Oates is a maestro of the short form but I've never been galvanized by the few novels of her I've read.
Expensive People continues this run.
Marked by a gravity of insight but also a self awareness that mars the immersion into the novel.
Of course, alot could be said of how meta this work is: the real short story by Oates credited to one of the characters and the memoirist style that purports to be non-fiction.
Oates' attack on American commercialism might have been fresh in the late 60's but now it seems oh so tired.
I finished [Expensive People:] this morning, and I enjoyed it.
I love Joyce Carol Oates which is probably biased by the fact that I grew up in Buffalo, NY.
But I really enjoy her writing style.[Expensive People:] is a somewhat tongue-in-cheek tale about Suburbia.
The story is told from the perspective of a son whose father climbed the corporate ladder (moving his family from suburb to suburb every 18 months).
The mother seemed to be a woman who was trying to avoid being the cliche housewife and only succeeded in being very cliche.
The son is an only child and a geek who is very socially-awkward.
Author was definitely reading a lot of Nabokov when she wrote this. A peculiarly devastating portrayal of the invisibility of children in this time and social milieu. I think a lot of reviewers of the novel missed a subtle but crucial point about the narrator's key action--the reliability of his confession unravels.
Such a morbid tale, yet so well written! The characters are engaging, even if the plot is disturbing. However, I still found that I could not put this book down. Definitely not a book for those we get depressed easily. For those who like a well written story, this is your book!
Liked it better the first time, 15+ years ago. This time I would give it three stars, but I am going to keep it at four, since I once loved it.
Good but not great...some very good dark humor...It was great look at the 1960's suburban life...left you wanting to know more.
Well, he merely wants to live a life his own gorgeous mother would approve of, which eventually drives him to murder (of who, you ask?
So, I don't want to reveal too much, but I guess this is as much of a spoiler which a book that begins as a confession to murder could contain : Taking cues from Nada's reliability and revolt, that through taking up a rifle and opening fire, Richard eventually becomes the sickness in this airtight society of suburban America.
For thirty years, I have tried and failed to get through a Joyce Carol Oates novel, the impetus of my good intentions consistently derailed by the avalanche of seemingly unedited self-indulgent inward mythos that might make interesting fodder for a therapy journal but which creates the fictional equivalent of Mr. Creosote from "The Meaning of Life"--an overstuffed behemoth whose eruption and eventual explosion requires self-protective measures from unhappy bystanders.And then there's "Expensive People," Oates's third book, second in the "Wonderland Quartet," which is relevant to the description above only insofar as there is quite a lot of reverse peristalsis in the story, but don't worry...it serves a multitude of purposes.
"Expensive People" opens with an irresistible hook--it's told in first-person narrative by a young man who says he is a child killer.
In questo angolo di paradiso che è il mio giardino in Trentino ho finalmente finito di leggere I Ricchi della Oates.Così a caldo non ho ancora capito se mi è piaciuto o no.La scrittura è pazzesca ma il romanzo è profondamente diverso per soggetto, linguaggio e tono rispetto a Il giardino delle delizie.
Anche qui, come nel primo romanzo, un colpo di arma da fuoco costituisce il climax dell'intera narrazione.Sullo sfondo quartieri residenziali, scuole private, automobili di lusso e country club.Quello che compare qui è il ritratto di un' America post bellica in pieno sviluppo economico.
I enjoy Oates' more disturbing novels, so with that expectation in mind this fell a bit short.
It was too short to experience a true catharsis after the suspense that was built by the first line (I am a child murderer...).
I also enjoyed the fact that we don't really know if the narrator's recounting is true or just a product of his delusion and the obvious trend of the oedipal complex.
I related to the way Oates' wrote the narrator's experience with mental illness, which probably biases me towards liking the book more.
It was interesting to discover this Joyce Carol Oates's early written book.
I enjoyed it, her attention to details and dark humor are incomparable, as usual.
My favorite character was Natashya, or Nada, as her teenage child calls her, a young woman from a small town in upstate NY.
She's trying to accomplish many things: to become a successful writer, to raise her social status in local upscale suburban communities, and to reach some other, more obscure personal goals.
It's a controversial character, described with a lot talent: explosive mix-up of touching sensuality, tumultuous intimate adventures, lying, hysteria, betraying, darkish nihilism, social ambitions.
Initially I thought Richard had a classic Oedipus Complex. But his thoughts about his mother are often too denigrating to completely support the theory. More clearly, neglect in the form of physical abandonment and emotional disregard lead to his psychological deterioration, and eventually an attempt to free his mind of his pathological maternal fixation and his depression. This was an interesting, thoughtful story. Not surprisingly, Joyce C. O. has an interest in psychology, and her deft skills as a writer can weave her knowledge of the subject into complex interpersonal relationships.
I did not finish the book. I have it 2 stars for being able to muscle through 59% of the book. I have always loved Oates but this one just didn’t do it for me. Clearly the book was written emphasize blandness of suburbia, businessmen, dysfunctional families. The characters were caricatures of this. But I could not get into the style of writing. I hated all the characters and found the messaging somewhat condescending.
This book is about a boy growing up without love, attention, affection, or time allotted to make life better for him. He loved his parents but doubted their love for him. This doubt was not unreasonable. His mom was high society, or tried to be. She was out of the house more than in it.She left the family 3 times in the 18 years the main character grew up. The son cherished her anyway.There was a murder in this book. Have I told you too much?
This was an odd book... Richard, Nada and Elwood... Having grown up in the suburbs there is much I recognized and much - as a child of a more functional family - that is beyond my ken... Everything is so contained. However the truth I grew up with - it's not how things are but how they appear - came through in spades. I am going to read the other two books in the quartet but hope for more in the third volume.
