https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147602.The_First_American
The best biography I've ever read.
Franklin is so human I could walk into the next room and not be surprised to see him setting there.The biographer also makes a very compelling argument that Ben Franklin was the most indispensable figure in the American Revolutionary adventure.
Or at least tied with Washington.Most historians agree that without George Washington, there's nobody else who could've stepped forward to successfully keep an army together, miraculously beat the most powerful country in the world, and then step down when people were asking him to become emperor.After this book, though, you'll believe the war was unwinnable without Franklin - nobody else could've gotten the French to lend the US money and give naval support (and others did try).Plus, of course, the man's life was fascinating.
Faced with having to bear the physical and financial burden of fighting England's wars on their home soil, but then watching as the King and his cabinet made post-fight decisions without regard to the feelings of the colonists, the Ben Franklins and George Washingtons slowly turned from loyal subjects to disgruntled rebels.The waves do not rise, but when the winds blow.I think what I liked about this book, and Franklin himself, was his outlook.
He never patented his inventions, as he felt they should be available to help all, not just the 1-percenters of the world.We've spawned a new race...
Even though it is a huge book.By the title, Brands makes the case that it is Franklin who most deserves the credit for the steps that led to the creation of the American republic.
In fact it is likely that because he was a libertine he got along with the French so well and secured their critical assistance when John Adams could not.Reading the detail of Franklin's dealings with the British government as agent for the colonies in London, leading up to the split, makes me thank our "lucky American stars" for the incredible arrogance, stupidity and greed of parliament and George III.
An excellent biography of an amazing person. Deeply researched, it revelas all the aspects of Franklin's life, especially those he glossed over in his autobiography.
I haven't read any of the author's other works, so I can't comment on how his style and craft may be evolving, but this book is well-written, well-thought-out, and as far as I can discern, well-researched.Like most people, I've known of Franklin all my life (well, less about 6 years).
His work with the post-revolutionary USPS was basically to restore the fine operation that he had already created.Franklin did not patent and essentially gave away the plans for the Franklin "fireplace" (i.e. stove) to help people heat the homes with less fuel and with less money.I could go on and on, but if anything I've written here intrigues you, go out and read the book!And, yes, I liked it.
A monumental yet eminently readable biography of (arguably) the most impressive and important of the early figures in American history.
Written in a very clear style, the book moves along, drawing the reader into wanting to know the next events in this very fascinating life.
Benjamin Franklin, perhaps the pivotal figure in colonial and revolutionary America, comes vividly to life in this masterly biography.Wit, diplomat, scientist, philosopher, businessman, inventor, and bon vivant, Benjamin Franklin was in every respect America’s first Renaissance man.
Absolutely loved this book!!! Franklin was then and always will be a fascinating man. I would definitely recommend this book!
Secondly, I often found myself pausing while reading to look up some piece of information.
I was led down many a wikipedia trail reading this book.
Finally, the printer printed on big pages in a small font.
Given that caveat, I consider The First American to be one of the best historical books I've ever read.
Beyond Franklin himself we encounter a treasure of information about the milieu that produced the revolution and eventually, the United States.
I learned more about what lead to the revolution reading this book than I did in all the schooling I had.
I have a hunch this multimedia book experience is not as rich as it could be, but it's a start on a form that's in its infancy.Update: Turns out I'm not a big fan of the Vook format, at least for recreational reading.
I suppose I'm too retro, equate reading with "quiet time."I like taking books, and ebooks, to public places.
Unless I want to wear earbuds, I'm not comfortable playing the clips in the Vook when there are other people around.I still think that the ideal app for a video-book app is the textbook.
It's nice reading about a founding father who's not a blatant racist and petitioned congress to abolish slavery.
Franklin wrote often in his later years about this, also stating that he saw no difference in the intelligence of blacks, whites or native Americans.
He also tried to get fair treatment for native Americans, quite a change from other founding fathers.
He was also extremely tolerant about religion, even writing that if a Muslim preacher showed up in Boston, he's support letting him use his church's pulpit.
It's a long book, but Franklin has so many facets, at times it's like reading about a different person.
I so enjoyed reading about this great man. He was a genius! He was one of the founding fathers and because of his insight, kindness, and knowledge he helped make America great!
An inventor, statesman, and Forefather to our country. Well-researched, and well-written. Great resource book, enjoy!
Brands does a great job bringing him to life, focusing on the varied aspects of Franklin's personality and how he effectively negotiated with people in various parts of his life over the years to get what he (or the fledgling U.S) needed.
I read Walter Isaacson's biography of Franklin a few years ago.
While Isaacson certainly did a good job, I thought that Brands really succeeded in explaining all of the contradictions inherent within Franklin.
Brands also seemed to focus more on Franklin's political work than Isaacson did.
I learned so much more about Benjamin Franklin.
One confession, the reason I put this down dealt with me reading something that made me angry with one of my favorite founding fathers.
His telling of Benjamin Franklin's life incorporates quotes from published works, correspondence, and various other sources.
including these sources helps the narrative to take on a personal feeling.
The work flows well keeping the reader's attention and eye.I learned a lot!
Overall i really enjoyed reading this biography and learning more about Benjamin Franklin, his life, and his contributions to building the USA.
Brands does an excellent job of capturing Franklin's exuberant versatility as a writer who adopted c
I love Ben Franklin.
I love how he constantly tries to be better and is so intentional about his life.
His family life needed alot of work, and it's sad to me that his relationship with his son was so painful and distant at times.The other thing that was interesting to me about this book was seeing the events of the American birth play out as they did.
I think we credit our country to this philosophical and moral giants...when in reality(though they were extraordinary in some ways), they were just people trying to do the right thing.
It makes you realize that everyone's life can lead to greatness...one step at a time.
I really liked the fact that this book went into detail about Benjamin Franklin's thoughts on religion, on the process of politics, how his love for the British changed, and moved to the American side when we had to change. It was very insightful and very funny at times as well what a great man we had in Benjamin Franklin.
While I am still trying to finish this book, I absolutely love it. It is heady, intelligent, and full of detail that is hard to find in a lot of other autobiographies.This is a book which requires concentrated time if you want to take in all of the information included in this book. Whenever I pick it up to read a chapter, I am completely engrossed and lose track of time.
"The First American" is a wake-up call — never again will I ignore this fascinating-yet-gentle giant of intellect and words. H.W. Brands crafts a sumptuous biography that does great justice to a great man…and it should be shared far and wide. Drag Ben Franklin out of the the realm of cliche and the fog of forgetfulness, and force him back into the spotlight he so richly deserves.
Twenty-three years ago I read "Mornings on Horseback," McCullough's biography of Teddy Roosevelt. I had trouble putting that book down, and I became a great admirer of TR. After reading this, I don't have the same feeling about Franklin. Too academic.
I find the history of the United States very intriguing and inspiring. Benjamin Franklin played a major role in this country foundation. At the same time, he wrote so many works and publications that we literally can ready through his history.
Although it's surely impossible to fit all of Franklin into any volume, this is a wonderful biography of man who had hugely impactful life.
Absolutely brilliant book about one of the most brilliant and fascinating Americans of all time.
Well written and well researched. I enjoyed it a great deal. Did a good job of covering most of Franklin's life.
This book was the main reason I choose to write my history thesis on Benjamin Franklin. There is so much more about this man that is fascinating but is not taught in history books.
Excellent biography... the first chapter is stellar... the rest merely (merely!) excellent. Highly recommended.
So he lived a full life before America’s independence, yet was one of the major figures that initiated the process.I’ve read several biographies by this author, and one of his strong points is that, from time to time, he’ll take small detours away from his subject matter, and give the reader a good primer of other key events that were happening during the particular time.
We read about several issues that England has (mostly with their main adversary, France) at the time that caused them to put such financial burdens on the colonists.Had this book only focused on what Franklin did, this book still would have been quite remarkable due to his brilliant nature and restless mind.
And the author of this biography did a beautifully stunning job of writing his life and times.
A book everybody should read.I'm so glad I had the opportunity to read this book.
I'm so glad I did.
I only vaguely knew of Franklin as a printer, some sort of key totin' kite flier, and something about inventing bifocals.
The author's subtitle, The First American, fits better than I would have never known without reading this book.
I think I'll order some bifocals and hope to life as long as Ben if I can be of service to society.
On his road to becoming the first American, Brands argues that Franklin considered himself British and intended to settle in London and live out his life until a course of events set in place by the times altered his life path.
While there he began to publish the Philadelphia Gazette and Poor Richard’s Almanac.Soon after Franklin’s success had blossomed, he married Debbie Read, who he had courted prior to leaving for London.
The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin was published in New York in 2000 by Doubleday.
What I found particularly interesting were Franklin’s general pro British feelings and pro empire leanings up to somewhat close to the key events of the pre revolutionary era, and the fact that he lived abroad in England for so much of his life.It would be interesting to see if anything H.W. Brands has anything positive to say about John Adams as virtually every reference to Adams in this book is overtly criticalEarly upbringing in the candle making and then printing industry in Boston amidst Puritan background influenced by Cotton Mather, Franklin’s anonymous writing for brother’s newspaper as Silence DogoodFlight to Philadelphia away from indentured servitude at the hands of jealous brother and establishment as printer in more religiously tolerant area with Quakers (William Penn influences) and Methodists (George Whitefield)Early trip to London and world experienceEarly publishing on metaphysics, paper money, successful printing/newspaper business in Philadelphia and writing/publishing of Poor Richard’s AlmanackAid in creating Philadelphia infrastructure such as libraries, fire department, post departments, Philadelphia and colonial defense associations, creation of the American Philosophical SocietyEarly colonial history of series of wars prior to French and Indian War between American/British vs.
