https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7241598-within-the-hollow-crown
Richard II is the Plantagenet English monarch discussed here in a historical fiction setting. I had never read anything about this monarch before and it was an okay introduction but it left me with a lot of questions regarding the three sections of his life- his youth, his marriage, and his violent death. What an absolute enigma of a man he appeared to be.
The majority of this book is a no fuss, no frills, solid read about Richard II - perfect if you're fairly new to the finer points of his reign, as I am.
By strange contrast though, after so much interest and detail about his earlier years, the crux of his story - Henry Bolingbroke’s usurpation - felt rushed and empty, with no build-up, explanation or reasoning.
After an 'educational' read, the last few chapters seemed a waste; a frustrating end to an otherwise very decent book.
Buddy read with Jemidar :-)
Even though Barnes’s use of close third person POV might prevent us from seeing those events as they happened, dramatizing Richard finding out those things while effectively trapped and under the threat of deposition would make for a great chapter, and it’s utterly bewildering why Barnes didn’t exploit this potential.
Barnes’s way of dealing with Richard II’s queer reputation (it was a vicious rumour planted by his scheming uncle Gloucester to discredit him) does make me sad, but historical context that this was written and published in (twenty years before homosexual acts were decriminalised in England) makes it understandable why a more nuanced take wasn’t used.This is a fairly solid, albeit rushed, read with much to enjoy and much that could have been better.
This was a pleasant novel, with a positive portrayal of Richard II, the last Plantagenet king, son of Edward, the Black Prince.
Outstanding was the vivid picture of 14th century England this novel gave.At age 11, Richard Plantagenet becomes king upon his father's death.
At one point, one of Richard's sympathizers saves Chaucer's life.
Anne's death is the breaking point for Richard.
Richard bravely meets his fate.This novel was very well-written and the descriptions of the England of Richard's time were impressive.
I must say Richard was a most sympathetic, decent character in this novel.
2) The writing made the story easy to get into because it flowed well.CONS: 1) I recognize that I have a personal bias in that I find myself very fond of history and historical fiction in general.
2) On the whole and when you get right down to it the book as a whole is forgettable due to the lack of clarity in explaining certain aspects of Richard's history.Why did Parliament go to war with the king?
After the death of his wife, in what regard did Richard began to lose the love of his people?
More like 3.5 stars.Good solid, old school historical fiction about Richard II of England and his tragic reign which avoids getting overly bogged down in the politics of the time. The pluses of this are obvious but can lead to a little confusion why everyone is so against poor Richard and it also tends to romanticize his reign somewhat, although not in a sickly sweet and syrupy way. Recommended but you may need to reference Wikipedia occasionally if you are more interested in the nitty gritty history than the romance. Buddy read with Anna :-).
It is these uncles and their peers whom Richard has let take control of Parliament and the kingdom, and Richard has had little say in most matters until he finally decides to take the reins after watching the others rule for him.There are many historical details that Barnes leaves out in the novel, which is quite understandable since this is a novel focused mostly on Richard and his character, perhaps in efforts by the author to bring a maligned king to justice.
Ms. Campbell attempts to portray the King as a man who fell deeply in love with his wife Anne, after they wed.
This love allowed Richard to bring peace to his realm and attempt to restore England to financial solvency, after decades of brutal taxation to fund glamorous foreign wars.
Ms. Campbell attempts to examine what she considers a misunderstood reign by portraying Richard II as a victim of his upbringing and circumstances.
His downfall is presented as a consequence of his losing the one person he loved most--Anne--and by the gradual betrayal and/or death of his most trusted friends and advisors.
Writing Richard II as empathetic or sympathetic or "nice" or giving him first a "sweetie" and then gone to "nasty" personality change without telling the politics in detail?Well, the style and the license taken are not in the proper "eyes" for the century.
Some authors like Hilary Mantel can write fiction that parses with reality.
I won't read any more of hers, as most of her history doesn't hold the understanding of the moving or political power associations that carve the events and these people within their society and belief systems.
When I choose historical fiction it has to core in motivations and the forces within competing powers.
There's some nice characterisation, particularly Richard himself and Anne, but most of the others are not really fully drawn.
There's a slightly odd sub plot involving Edward Dalyngrigge and his wife - the latter being keen to get Richard into bed.
As this doesn't fit history very well at all, the dates are all wrong for starters, I can only think the author really, really liked Bodiam Castle and wanted to include it.In summary, a pleasant enough light read, but do NOT rely on it for its historical content.
Both his father and grandfather have passed away and now Richard II, who is just a boy, is the new King of England.
Being a child he was only able to rule with the Regency Council.
As he grew to be a teenage, the council was null and he was able to make decisions for his people as he saw fit.
He also fell in love and took a wife, Anne of Bohemia at this important time in his life.There are so many things that happen in this book.
King Richard's life is like a roller coaster.
This is a fun fictional portrait of King Richard II.
I really liked this book. I have read a number of books by this author and always finish the books feeling like I have learned some history as well as having a thoroughly good read.
As always, books of this genre depend on the author’s imagination in great part, and I appreciate the fact that she doesn’t pull us into what goes on between the sheets.
However, for some reason, and I’m not sure why, this one didn’t grab me as much as her other works I’ve read over the years.This food be because I’ve read other novels which have portrayed Richard II in a less than favorable light.
Or because there was a great deal of emphasis placed detailing politics.
I think this is because Barnes isn’t very consistent in the named she chooses to use during the novel.
Reading this book was very helpful in understanding a little bit more about the reign of Richard II.
It just dragged and the characters were hard to connect to.
Again not enough dialogue for my liking
The novel begins to pick up when Richard marries his first wife, Anne.
Once Richard and Anne begin to form their relationship the novel continues to build up at a great pace, climaxing at Anne's death.
The novel continues to be a fast read all the way through Richard marrying his second wife, the child Isabel of Valois.
The novel spent so much time in the beginning showcasing Richard's early career as king and showing his faults and achievements, and then is just whizzes by the end of his reign.
$3.99 – 2.5 starsI have been reading to learn more about Richard II, but this book while labeled historical fiction was heavy on the fiction and very light on the history.
Richard wants peace and unlike many of his ancestors, he doesn’t care for war.
Perhaps not although he certainly enjoyed the lavish lifestyle.While reading this book, I had more thoughts come to my mind about Richard because there was so much fiction in these pages.
And while Richard thought about Edward II (at least in this book) and his fate, he didn’t learn from his mistakes and his favorites paid the price, just as he did in the end.
This is another book Ive had on my tbr pile for about a year and finally felt in the mood to read, having recently read Crown in Candlelight which deals with the immediate aftermath of Richard II's usurpation and death.
I'm aware I'm in danger of giving my age away here but I swear I'm not that old!The story starts with Richard as an 11 year old boy-king, the son of the Black Prince and grandson of Edward III, completely under the thumb of and overshadowed by his 3 ambitious, powerful and overbearing uncles acting as his Regency Council, especially the war loving and bullying Thomas, Duke of Gloucester whom Richard hates.
For the first time in years, England is in a state of relative peace, but that cannot last for long…The thing that I enjoyed the most about Barnes’ novel was the way the characters are written.
The first section of the book, about the first 100 pages or so, focus on the Peasant Revolt, a rather significant event of that time period.
The reign of Richard II precedes the War of the Roses, but I don’t think this was the best book for me to start reading about this period with.Overall, I enjoyed the writing style of Barnes but it would have been a better, in my opinion, if the peasant revolt section was shorter or a little more exciting.
Within the Hollow Crown by Margaret Campbell Barnes is beautifully written and at times tragic tale of Richard II.
His father Prince Edward, more commonly referred to as the Black Prince passed away when Richard was only 10 and by the time he was 11 his grandfather King Edward the Third passed away, leaving young Richard Plantagenet as the successor to the throne.
Within the Hollow Crown is an extraordinarily written novel of the life of Richard II, about an inquisitive boy who did not want to become King.
Barnes masterfully takes command and tells an exquisitely written tale of the last reigning Plantagenet King.
A highly emotional story of injustice starting with a young boy King and taking you though the first twenty plus years of his reign as King of England.
A story that will make you feel sorry for this young man born of privilege for he is not exempt from the cruelties of life as most of us would think.Richard II takes reign as King of England at the young tender age of ten.
He is much brighter than what his Uncles and Parliament give him credit for.As the years go by and Richard grows into a young man he is tested over and over again by those who would thwart him.
A clever boy who put down Wat Tyler and the Peasants' Revolt with a few cunningly spoken phrases in Smithfield.Campbell Barnes depicts Richard with three distinct personalities during his reign: First as a sun-soaked, extremely well-mannered youth that loved all things beautiful and who put friendship high on the list of importance.
Friends that included the father of English literature, Geoffrey Chaucer.Next, we see him married to Anne of Bohemia, a relationship that, in the beginning, was cordial and kind, but would later become a true love match (another strike against Richard.
Although I found the beginning a tad dry, I did enjoy reading about Richard's personality and seeing him change from a mere youth to a man who could rule a country.
That being said, I think I might have enjoyed this book more if I knew a bit about the history before reading it.
It did however pique my interest in Richard II, and I will definitely be doing some research on him.
The couple issues I had with this book has not hindered my desire to read more from this author.
During his reign, Richard faced one of the first recorded peasant revolt in England as well as constant in fighting amongst his uncles, the sons of Edward III, one of the greatest English kings.
His own instincts to rule as a benevolent king were constantly thwarted by his cousin Henry (later Henry IV) and his uncles, who were content to run the country as they saw fit, trotting out Richard only when immediate danger was present.I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in early English history and the love story between the King and his first wife is deftly handled, without the typical sentimental drivel that many stories succumb to in order to reach a broader “romance” reader.
This is another great historical fiction story by Margaret Campbell Barnes and tells the story of Richard Plantagenet who is the son of The Black Prince.
Richard was crowned king of England at the early age of eleven.
After the death of Anne, Richard became very bereft and his rule over England became precarious as there are those around him that want to take over the throne.
As with all of Margaret Campbell Barnes historical novels, this story was very well researched and even though this book was first published in 1948, the reader feels like this is brand new historical fiction.
When Richard married Anne of Bohemia, she falls completely in love with him, and he with her.
After his cousin steals the throne from him and has him imprisoned, he realizes the importance of what he had, and what he lost, and he vows to get it back if it is at all possible.
This book was so well written, I got lost in the pages and could almost see the characters moving through my mind.
I loved this book!
This is the third or fourth book of hers that I have read and I have enjoyed all of them
Richard was just 11 when his father died and then 15 when his grandfather died leaving him King at a very young age.
He only had glimpses of what it was like to be a child.
He was the last of the manly, warring Plantagenet line and he was remarkably a peace maker despite the best efforts of his uncles.He married young and his marriage was a happy one - rare in royal circle.
There are some sections a bit long on exposition but if you are a history buff like I am they will not bother you.
Overall it is a very enjoyable book about a very tragic King.
This book discusses the reign of King Richard II.
His three uncles effectively take over the running of the country and Richard is left trying to fight for his right to rule.
It did seem to try and fit too much in and I was left feeling that there were lots of half spoken plots, and characters I didn't understand.
Having not known much about the reign of Richard II I'm not sure I know much more now other than a few key events.
Having said that it has made me want to read more about his reign so that has to be a good point.
In this story, Richard is a sympathetic character (not the way he is usually portrayed) longing to do right but misunderstood by his powerful relatives and many in his kingdom.
Not sure if I buy this version totally but it was a different perspective on the events leading up to his ultimate murder.The story of Richard's great love for his first wife, Anne of Bohemia, is very touching as is his affection for his second child bride.
In fact the most interesting parts of the book are Richard's relationships with the women in his life.
