https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13125947-reached
**MINOR SPOILERS** What should have been a bigger event in this book - the Rising fighting the Society - ended up being nothing.
At first I honestly thought that maybe my book was missing several chapters - you know, the chapters where something actually happens - but it turns out that the Rising taking over the Society was just that - nothing.
From the jobs (still don't know what the heck a "sorter" is and why computers can't do it) to the "Society" and the "Rising" - everything is just so vague.
as i was posing for this, i was thinking to myself, "how fitting! this truly is like being trapped in a bubble, because even though i was only 'eh' about the first one, and definitely 'thumbs-down' about the second one, i am totally going to have to read the third one to see how it all ends..."trapped.
Then Crossed came out, I almost had given up on it all together as it was dull, characters had nothing too likeable about them and the love triangle was lame.
The first reasons why I even read these books is because of the cover.
I love how they have covers (green, blue and red) corresponding to the tablets.
I don't know why, but recently, breath-taking covers have been quite disappointing.
People should start making ugly covers on the good books now because I'm on a hunt for unawesome covers and impressive meaty insides with all the yummy world building, personalities, heroism and plot.
Team Xander all the way.
Loved the first two books can't wait for this one.P.S. I don't get why everyone loves Ky and thinks he is the dangerous one.
I think he is safe.
No one who has been through what he has is dangerous.
He didn't want to join the rebellion.
I don't think him and Cassia want the same thing.
She just likes the idea of him and his story.
:( Review: I like how it ended and I am ok with how it ended for Xander.
I can not wait for the movie unless, they are anything like the trailers.
Was it wrong for me to actually hope that there would be some sort of improvement in the last book of the Matched trilogy?Maybe. Maybe not.Reached, for me, was every bit of what I did NOT want a final book to be.Here are four things I did not like about it, in honor of the four blank spaces in my rating. #1: THE FLIMSY LOVE TRIANGLE Don't get me wrong, but I do love ADORE well-written love triangles. You know, ones that handle the three involved with reverence, ones that leave them with dignity
Like the ones in The Iron Fey series and The Infernal Devices trilogy.It was FAR from the case with this series.When Cassia decided to go to the Outer Provinces looking for Ky (not Xander), when she decided to CROSS A FREAKING CANYON to get to Ky (not Xander), when she decided to RISK EVERYTHING, EVEN HER LIFE, just for Ky (again, NOT Xander), I knew that the love triangle was supposed to end.BUT NO.
Oh, let's just conveniently make her remember things she was supposed to forget without ever explaining why she could do that.Cassia isn't immune to the Plague?
I'm a sucker for red covers! <3
I'm secretly hoping that the cover will be Cassia standing outside the sphere in the red dress Ky drew her in :) :)Update: Well, she's not quite OUT of the sphere, but she sure is in a red dress :)FINISHED REVIEW:3.5 stars.
I'm glad things ended for him the way they did.I have to admit that a big part of why this book is not a 4 for me is because I didn't connect with Cassia at all.
I think, realistically, Cassia and Xander are much better suited, which is odd since I really preferred Ky in the past two books.
This alone, however, wasn't enough to hold my interest in these books and the plot often felt stalled, prosaic and repetitious.
This last installment in the Matched trilogy follows Cassia and Ky's attempt to overthrow the tyrannical and fascist hierarchy that governs every aspect of their lives - from life partner, to job, to number of offsprings - aided by the rebellion.The previous book closed on Cassia and Ky becoming distanced from each other, despite spending the ENTIRE BOOK attempting to be reconciled.
This features more of the same, but I felt it had a little more action and actual forward motion of the plot to keep me entertained.My problem with this series was that I just wasn't very interested in their relationship.
«El piloto. la poeta. El doctor.»«Hay flujo y reflujo. Partidas y llegadas. Vuelos y caídas. Canciones y silencios. Manos tendidas y manos estrechadas.»
I can’t say that I’d recommend it to anyone else, even if I did enjoy some aspects of the series.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(Pre-release thoughts)I think the cover is pretty nice, although it's not my favorite cover in the world, and I still like the first cover better.
AND, it's supposed to be from the POV of XANDER [yay!], Ky, and Cassia.
[Note: Beware of spoilers if you haven't read Crossed yet!]What's up with Cassia at the end?
How does being back in Society help the Rebellion?
Why not just end the book at Ky's POV?
Why extend the book to Cassia's POV, giving me a bunch of questions?
I have a love-hate relationship with this book.
For a while i thought i might like it. (view spoiler)[... (hide spoiler)]I hate her choice! Stupid Ky!
This better be good.You owe me after Crossed.--After Reading: This was not my favorite series, but I will recommended it to teens who are looking for a dystopia that makes you work for it a bit with literary and art illusions.It took me a while to get into. People kept asking me, "how's it going?" and I'm like, "Well, I'm on page 180 and I can't really tell you..."I just think it got too far away from Matched, which I liked and thought worked as a dystopian romance....to this book about finding a cure for a plague..
It's such an odd book out from the whole trilogy, but in the end I realize this is actually a quite weak offering in the dystopian genre as a whole.
I just couldn't stand to read this by the end of the novel.The conclusion to the trilogy is entirely unsatisfying.
Xander's held the most interest for me, but when the whole book ended up being about the struggle with a PLague, that's entirely out of their control, it felt like a cop-out.I guess I wanted the struggle to be man versus man, not man versus some weird disease at the end.
Red cover to match the tablet theme. Liking the idea and looking forward to how the bubble will be portrayed this time.Update: I like the fact that she is standing, but why not facing forward? Would have preferred it if she was looking at us with her head down. :/ The bubble still looks awesome though.
A book that makes you want to take all (but a rare handful) of five star ratings back, because the other five stars do not compare.
A book that leaves you carved out and filled back up, because it is so beautiful and you wonder that a person could create such a thing of beauty.
This is, my favorite ending to any series I have ever read.
. .you know that beautiful moment as a reader when you experience a complete emotional catharsis while reading a character's journey and you feel your own world shift?
Nevertheless, I was able to achieve my purpose in reading the entire series, that is to find out whom Cassia ends up with.
Predictably, she ends up with Ky because Ky too, chooses Cassia even when Indie would have been an easier choice.
This is I guess, what I liked most about the entire series- how Cassia and Ky fought for their love for each other despite all odds.
What I did not like very much about the ending is how Xander- because Cassia did not choose him ends up with a girl, Lei who just appears in the last half of book three.
By the end the story has something about love, but the character are yet again separated throughout the novel and the plague is all the rave, front and center.The book is more about Xander than anything else really.
In my mind Matched was more Cassia, Crossed was more Ky, and Reached was more Xander.
But I love me some Xander too, so I was thrilled to learn about his story, I just didn't expect the story to be more about him.So at the end my veridict is I liked/enjoyed it, but it wasn't what I had come to expect from the series.
If this book was to stray away from the stereotype of Paranormal & Dystopian YA Fiction, she'd choose XanderQuick ReviewFrankly I was a little disappointed with the ending of Reached.
I didn't enjoy the whole 'Pilot' plotline,(view spoiler)[the rebellion was pretty feeble considering the first two books had been working up to it, they weren't met with much resistance and the plague seemed a litttttttle bit too far fetched and out of the blue.
(hide spoiler)]I probably set my expectations too high.
Still don't like Ky as a character, but I was upset about (view spoiler)[Indy (hide spoiler)].
I did like the multiple points of view from Cassia, Ky and Xander.
Well, it's over, isn't it? I liked it...it didn't jump the shark but it also didn't knock my socks off. To be fair, I'm going to say to this book, "It's not you...it's me."We all knew she'd end up with (view spoiler)[Ky, but it just took so long to get to that point that it just wasn't that exciting for me. (hide spoiler)]Also, (view spoiler)[ the Xander and Lei thing seemed almost too manufactured. Like, of all the people and places in Society, he finds Vick's match? (hide spoiler)]Like I said,
I liked it...it didn't jump the shark but it also didn't knock my socks off.
To be fair, I'm going to say to this book, "It's not you...it's me."We all knew she'd end up with (view spoiler)[Ky, but it just took so long to get to that point that it just wasn't that exciting for me.
(hide spoiler)]Also, (view spoiler)[ the Xander and Lei thing seemed almost too manufactured.
(hide spoiler)]Like I said, this isn't the books fault.
I liked it, but just done with YA for the time being.
I can already tell there's a Team-Xander vs.
Team-Ky thing going on...
I liked the first book (Matched) because it was different and I liked both Ky and Xander.
Moving into the second one (Crossed) I expected something a little more spicy with love and war and just felt myself getting bored.
Not only was the war BORING, the LOVE story/triangle was NONEXISTENT.
There was absolutely no reason for the third person to even be in the equation, all I ended up doing was feeling sorry for him.
I have never been so mad ending a series, not because it was over, but because I read it to begin with.
This book is basically summed up by a quote a new character, Lei, says near the end.
It started out strong, like Condie's books usually do, and ended with beautiful prose and a good conclusion.
Xander's POV was my favorite throughout the book, and I liked him as a character better than the other two, but I have to say his ending shocked me.
I was rooting for Team Xander throughout the book.Ky basically worked for The Rising the whole time, so at least to me, his POV was pretty boring.
Is everyone Team Ky? I am Team Xander. I can't wait for this book. What about you guys?EDIT: OMG the cover!
Stop rating a book you have not even read 1 page off! It is crazy that so many people are giving it 5 stars having not read 1 page of it. There are more 5 stars reviews than 1. 56 % of idiots gave it 5 stars and 9 % of idiots gave it 1. And I did not count the other idiots. Thanks to them you cannot buy a book anymore based on reviews. I used to do that but then finding out I bought a very bad book although it had 5 stars, or vice versa.
I don't know if it was because I was wary after being let down by the first two books, but I was procrastinating for finals and wanted to give it a fair chance so I kept reading......And I am so glad I did.After the initial slow start, Reached just exploded with action and emotions.
The way she described certain scenes in the book just made my heart ache, like I was actually feeling what the characters were feeling.
the list goes on and on and I am so happy I took the time while studying for finals to read this book and for letting it change my mind about how I view the Matched trilogy in general.
As with the previous novels, Condie's writing is fluid, unhurried, and poetic with each line, each page.
In REACHED, Condie lets readers know and learn more about Xander as a new narrator, in addition to Cassia and Ky's points-of-view.
HIGHLIGHTS: I enjoyed how Condie tied everything together in this novel – a few moments that seemed inconsequential in previous books became extremely important in this story.
This story surprised me a few times, and I loved the three distinct points of view – it was nice to finally get to know more about Xander's character.
I cannot make myself read this meaningless tripe.
I don't care about the Rising or the Society or the Pilot.
I don't care if the Pilot is Pee-Wee Herman and he invites everyone back to his Playhouse.
I don't care if Cassia ends up with Ky or Xander.
Maybe they'll all live together and share the love and passion until Xander and Ky fall in love with each other and get rid of Cassia, who, in her despair, jumps into a blue police box which takes her to Raxacoricofallapatorius where she finds true love with a Slitheen...nah.
Let me say, Ally Condie has some gorgeous writing in this book.
However, her writing style is so introspective, so sparse, so poetic that it doesn't fit a story with any kind of action or peril.
It felt almost like a chore to finish it--I even had it on my to-do list--and a reader never wants to feel like that about a book.
Beautiful writing--the last few paragraphs were gorgeous!--but too much ponderous introspection for a story requiring a sense of urgency.
Did not like.Maybe if I was to do this whole reading experience again, I would choose to actually read the physical book series but not only did I find the narrator(s) dull in the audio book but I felt the book (and the series) dull as a whole.I did not become interested or invested in any of the characters.
I also wasn’t a fan of this particular love triangle and at one point believed that Ky and Xander were both too good for Cassia.I have to say that for others reading the series, the physical copy may be the best route to go.
I don’t think I would have a different opinion when reading it but the audiobook and the narration also contributed to my dislike of this series.
The Poet Has to face great dangers and to decide whom to love. She decides to create new things, to give people hope and happiness. She forgets and remembers. She is strong, determined and faithful. She loses everything and finds it anew.Cassia is an awesome protagonist and partly she really reminds me on Katniss or Tris, but she has also completely different character traits like her art-love.  “Do you think you could let someone go if you thought it was best for them?” The PilotFaces death and
She loses everything and finds it anew.Cassia is an awesome protagonist and partly she really reminds me on Katniss or Tris, but she has also completely different character traits like her art-love.
Besides, he is a lover of poetry too, just like Cassia and this makes the main difference to characters from other popular books.
He knows whom Cassia loves and there is no real fight, no real love-triangle in this book.
I just deeply love this trilogy and the third book is definitely the best of the series!!!
