https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/469571.All_the_Pretty_Horses
All the Pretty Horses isn’t quite as grim as other Cormac McCarthy work that I’ve read but considering that this includes The Road, Blood Meridian, No Country For Old Men and watching the HBO adaptation of his play The Sunset Limited, it's still so bleak that your average person will be depressed enough to be checked into a mental ward and put on suicide watch after finishing it.John Grady Cole is a sixteen year old cowboy in Texas a few years after World War II who was raised on his grandfather’s ranch after his parents split up.
Sixteen-year-old John Grady Cole has grown up working his patriarchal grandfather's ranch in Tom Green County, raised by Luisa, the Cole ranch's cook, after his theatrical actress mother left him at six months and his gambler father put in only fleeting appearances.
Along for the journey is his loyal, pragmatic seventeen-year-old friend Lacey Rawlins, who despite speaking considerably less Spanish than John Grady does speak more English, pondering the afterlife and singing on the ride down.
John Grady still refuses to abandon the kid, until they ride into a Mexican village and find old Blevins' pistol and horse under new ownership.
I seldom abandon books after reading just a couple of pages, but in this case I had no choice.
Two pages into the book I was so annoyed by McCarthy's random use of apostrophes and near-total lack of commas that I felt I had better stop reading to prevent an aneurysm.
I'm sure McCarthy is a great storyteller, but unless someone convinces me he has found a competent proof-reader who is not afraid to add some four thousand commas to each of his books, I'll never read another line he's written.
I can only tolerate so many crimes against grammar and punctuation.
He and his best friend Lacey Rawlins (17) decide to ride to Mexico and see if they can find work on a ranch.On their way there, a younger boy, possibly 14 (although he lay claim to 16 years) named Jimmy Blevins joins them, although neither is particularly keen to have the fellow along.
Both the younger boy and his big horse happen to have a huge fear of lightning.All three of the young men meet up again a few weeks later, but their circumstances are much harsher than the rough living of their journey.
All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, #1), Cormac McCarthyAll the Pretty Horses is a novel by American author Cormac McCarthy published by Alfred A.
It is also the first of McCarthy's "Border Trilogy".The novel tells of John Grady Cole, a 16-year-old who grew up on his grandfather's ranch in San Angelo, Texas.
The boy was raised for a significant part of his youth, perhaps 15 of his 16 years, by a family of Mexican origin who worked on the ranch; he is a native speaker of Spanish and English.
اما این سفر پرامید، که می‌بایست درس زندگی و تجربه به آنان بیاموزند، به کابوسی دوزخی بدل می‌شود...؛ ا.
O.K. Relax. I’m not going to bombard you with extracts as I am wont to do, tempting though it may be as the prose sings and the evocative imagery enchants. I am not even going to whinge about the direct speech not being enclosed in fat little quotation marks, as here the missing punctuation is not missed at all. Quite simply, this novel blew my socks off!
Two young boys, John Grady Cole and Lacey Rawlins, decide to leave their homes in Texas and ride to Mexico.
Then they are joined by another boy even younger than they are who is riding an expensive horse.
Both have an uneasy feeling about Blevins but despite efforts to drive him away the boy follows them.
It seems to be a recurring motif in McCarthy's books that one individual will personify ill fortune which will infect all those attached to him.
During a thunderstorm the bringer of ill fortune, Blevins, loses his horse and leaves to hunt for it.
For a while all seems to be going well for the two boys.
Your desire that it be that way will enslave you and make your life vacuous.Cheryl Cole : Awa, tha wez canny good but Ah think it wez above me heed.Paula Abdul : What are you going to do for us, Cormac?CM : It’s called “All the Pretty Horses”.Simon : Okay, in your own time.CM performs “All the Pretty Horses”.
I’m too old for this crap.Simon : So that’s a no.LA Reid : I have to say – Cormac – did you have any idea how much you were getting on our nerves?
This western of new antiquity flows with a horse's grace and bursts into furious and powerful charges.
McCarthy's pen grazes upon lush words.
It flows down their filthy boots into a landscape vivid with an encompassing spectrum not seen in The Road.
Kick the dust and sand off these words.
Dig in and glory in their life-giving beauty.Review Appendix: There's a band I've recently come across who write the kind of music that would make for a wonderful soundtrack to McCarthy's Border Trilogy.
The Division Men (a husband and wife duo) play a music that sounds like Leonard Cohen lost in the desert.
A gritty story in which childhood doesn't exist and two teenage boys, John Grady and Lacey Rawlins, are alone riding in a land foreign to them.
It's pretty brutal (cauterizing a bullet wound using a heated gun barrel is just one of the cringe-inducing scenes), though truth be told, this is decidedly gentler than other McCarthy books.So yes, wild west saga.
But between the lines, the book couldn't be more romantic.
The ticking clock has left John Grady in a country he doesn't recognise, and to which he no longer belongs.
I guess I like romance more than I thought.At the end of the day, there are few things John Grady can count on.
The Alejandra and John Grady Cole relationship reads like a Hollywood movie where the producer came in demanding massive cuts in the middle, leaving us without all the get-to-know-you stuff between the character introduction and the sex--i.e. the stuff that makes you ultimately care about and believe in the couple.
And while, like Myers, I can also find a few things to criticize in All the Pretty Horses (in addition to the romance), this nitpicking would seriously misconstrue my enjoyment of the book.
And that’s what All the Pretty Horses is foremost; a great time.
Cormac McCarthy, in his 1992 novel, (which begins his Border Trilogy) has again conjured up dark and somber images of the verges of human civilization both literally and metaphorically in Mexico.John Grady Cole and his friend leave 1949 Texas and cross the border into Mexico and in some respects goes back in time as the tone and setting could be a hundred years earlier.
This woman who knows life, whose eyes have seen it all, speaks and we all listen.In this way Alejandra’s great aunt Alfonsa, and especially her dialogue with John Grady, is the character in this excellent novel that I will remember the most.
My first Cormac McCarthy book and not what I expected, better in fact.
Excellent writing as one would expect from this acclaimed writer.
It's the story of three young men, teenagers actually, not happy with their lives in 1949 Texas, so they decide to strike out for Mexico.
What they find is a landscape, a culture, and a social system far different than what they left behind.
There is a starkness to this novel, combined with a romanticism that McCarthy molds perfectly into the story and the characters.4+ starsUpdate: I have now also read The Road by Cormac McCarthy.
Very good but totally different feel than this one.

page one pretty much tore down all my pre-conceptions about what a book could be like whose title contained the word "pretty." Cormac McCarthy's writing is very Man-ly, with a capital M - this aint no pretty girl book.
it's one of those books that makes you want to get inside the author's head (i had a similar feeling when i read the Sound and the Fury) - who is this man?
never mind the fact that mccarthy has dozens of other books i could then enjoy - it seemed important that i save the last installment, for such a moment when i really needed to read something amazing.
And rarely is writing ever as good as his:"In his sleep he could hear the horses stepping among the rocks and he could hear them drink from the shallow pools in the dark where the rocks lay smooth and rectilinear as the stones of ancient ruins and the water from their muzzles dripped and rang like water dripping in a well and in his sleep he dreamt of horses and the horses in his dream moved gravely among the tilted stones like horses come upon an antique site where some ordering of the world had failed and if anything had been written on the stones the weathers had taken it away again and the horses were wary and moved with great circumspection carrying in their blood as they did the recollection of this and other places where horses once had been and would be again.
A young hired hand is warned against getting close to the beautiful, haughty daughter of his ranchowner employer, but her haunting beauty zzzzzzzzzz.........
I find Cormac McCarthy's writing to be intimidating at the start of each novel but quickly find myself falling into its rhythm and cadence.
His descriptions are vivid even in their bleakness, but this story is much more romantic than I expected.
It's still a bit gruesome at times but has a romantic sensibility that makes this story feel like a classic, that of a lovestruck young man, his loyal companion, and his forbidden love.
I really enjoyed this more than I expected and I hope to get to the next two novels in this series sooner rather than later.
McCarthy pares his descriptions down to the purest bones, and then, as if all that surrounded it was the shrapnel of a shattering revelation, lays down a jaw-droppingly astonishing sentence that sums up good, evil, man, God, love. The best and worst in men are inseparable in McCarthy's worlds, which are so exactly imagined as to be indisputable.John Grady Cole is one of the most memorable heros in contemporary literature. This one makes me want to ride out across the dust.
Its deeply-realized natural wonders, interwoven elements of mystical and godlike grandeur, and rejection of modernism and industrialized life in favor of a more basic and emotional existence all point to the Romanticism of the late 18th and early 19th century.But the term that most defines this Romantic coming-of-age story is “polysyndetic.” More than he writes it, McCarthy paints All the Pretty Horses through polysyndeton – a stylistic emphasis on the rhythm and timing of words that's achieved through extensive use of conjunctions and, in McCarthy’s case, a comparative refusal to stick to traditional punctuation.
4.5Love McCarthy's unique, deep and fluent writing that carries from novel to novel though the plots may change. Love Westerns, love books that aren't predictable, love books that depict realist worldviews -- no sugarcoating situations to always turn out for the better. New favorite.
What follows is an odyssey of restless youth across a rugged country, a bleak and sometimes bloody journey that is not without the humor and easy banter of young teenagers on their own; the "road trip" that turns nightmarish and accelerates the process of growing up into hyper drive.John Grady is an endearing character; there are no Holden Caulfields in the Texas borderlands.
This is Cormac McCarthy, and therefore not a fairy tale; the reader would be naïve to expect an ending with a smiling John Grady riding into the sunset with his girl's arms around his denim shirt.
Pushed things knotted up deep down inside to the surface, like coming up from under a waterfall for air.
There’s something visceral here, not just in the story itself but in the reading of it, more akin to eating and breathing than turning pages of a book.
And us, whittled and raw and scarred up and healing.At a technical level it’s brilliant, the way McCarthy puts every word together.
And he’s just telling a story, the story he’d want to hear and about the only things that interest him.
It’s the only kinds of things that interest me these days too.
L’avidità, la follia e l’attrazione per il sangue sono una costante della storia, e questa è una cosa che persino Dio - che sa tutto quel che si può sapere - sembra incapace di modificare.”Sella, cavallo, pistola, briglia, staffe, fucile, cavallo, sangue, sudore, polvere, un altro cavallo, campo lungo sulla mesa.
Al di là della perfezione stilistica la trama ha forse qualche forzatura, qualcosa di poco verosimile, ma a un western si perdona tutto.
Per il resto, la visione del mondo che il romanzo offre è durissima e spietata, anche se non del tutto negativa.
Today's prompt is to discuss the "most chocolatey novel" for National Chocolate Day.I hate chocolate, and I hated this pretentious self-conscious poseur of a novel.I dont think omitting punctuation is novel since the nouveau roman movement has been doing it since oh I dunno the 1950s AND its pretty much pointless in telling a standard coming-of-age story AND it's an absurd (and inconsistently utilized) affectation whose cynical deployment in this violent animal-abusive Peckinpahesque farrago won the author a National Book AwardWhich is not to say that McCarthy can't write very nice lines:Between the wish and the thing the world lies waiting.--lovely and preciseScars have the strange power to remind us that our past is real.--amen to that oneBut that isn't enough to make a book a Modern Classic!
John Grady Cole comes from a long line of ranchers facing extinction in the late 1940s.
And once settled south of the border, John Grady falls in love with the ranch owner's daughter which leads to a whole new set of problems.
The story still has Cormac's signature bleakness and magnificence of life in the open country.
It was a time where boys became men at a far younger age, where people were forced grow up and face hardships early in their lives.
Siamo nel 1949 e due giovani di belle speranze (ma quello che interessa all'autore è solamente John Grady, l'altro fa solo da spalla, proprio come nei film di quegli anni) si mettono in viaggio (a cavallo !) verso il Messico.Cammin facendo si viene sapere che hanno 16 anni, ma sono sgamati e tosti come veri cow boy.
In other words--like a plant uses a minimum but perfect balance of nutrients--the writing uses only a minimum of grammar, punctuation, and narration to achieve a natural, living story, uninhindered by needless stops or pauses, unencumbered by inconsequential thoughts or ideas, unburdened of superficial style or format.
Every word is certain, purposeful, clean.I enjoy this type of writing, but it must be used for a specific kind of story.
The story is certain, purposeful, clean, and is, consequently, natural and believeable.McCarthy does something else with his writing that I haven't read anywhere before.
Well, this was light years better than ‘Mud Meridian’.
Death of the Old West, Cowboys and the Frontier Cowboys like smoky old pool rooms & clear mountain mornins,Little warm puppies and children and girls of the night.Mammas Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to be Cowboys, Bruce, 1975.Go west young man, haven't you been toldCalifornia's full of whiskey, women and goldShould've Been a Cowboy, Keith, 1992.I found this by far the most readable of Cormac McCarthy's novels. All the Pretty Horses is in many ways an elegiac novel about the death of the Ol
All the Pretty Horses is in many ways an elegiac novel about the death of the Old West and cowboys and the western lifestyle as a way of life.
Thus it differs substantially from McCarthy's typical view of the world as cesspool.The novel opens in 1949 with the funeral of the grandfather of sixteen year old John Grady Cole.
Dad says he and JG's mom shared a love of horses and he thought that was enough to make their marriage last.
Now Mom lives down in San Antone with an 18-year-old studmuffin.
