https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102525.H_is_for_Homicide
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to H is for Homicide, the 8th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1991 by Sue Grafton. Grafton hits another home run in the series with this installment, focusing on the death of one of Kinsey's friends. It kicks off an investigation into insurance fraud claims, where Kinsey goes undercover to determine if a woman tricked Kinsey's friend Paul into the insurance game, ultimately leading to his own death. But Kinsey's in for a shock when she's arres
4 of 5 stars to H is for Homicide, the 8th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1991 by Sue Grafton.
Grafton hits another home run in the series with this installment, focusing on the death of one of Kinsey's friends.
But Kinsey's in for a shock when she's arrested herself, unable to clear her name as part of the investigation because she's undercover.
This was a good edition in the series, as it pushed Kinsey out of her comfort zone, showed some emotions and helped us relate to her better.
And the mystery has lots of good twists and turns.
For the first part of H is for Homicide I was applauding the author for changing her normal pattern.
After all, eight books into the series a little change would be refreshing I thought.By the middle of the book I was constantly checking that this was indeed Kinsey Millhone I was reading about and not Vic Warshawski.
I often find similarities between these two characters but Kinsey is normally never as rash or as careless of her own safety.
Going undercover without a wire or any other immediate support was just dumb even for a character in a book.
This wonderful book by Sue Grafton is written when she was, in my opinion, at her best. Her books have evolved over time, but one of her most endearing qualities was to create her protagonist, Kinsey Millhone. Despite being a master of crime novels, Grafton is also extremely witty and her descriptions of Kinsey's merry band of neighbors is hilarious and entertaining. Grafton does well with setting and characters.
H is for Homicide by Sue Grafton is a 1991 Ballantine Books publication. To me, this story was a little strange. I understood the insurance fraud storyline, and the scam was one used a lot in the 1980’s, so it’s believable, but the characters and the dialogue were odd, and Kinsey did not behave in the way she ordinarily does. Not my favorite in this series. I hope the next book gets back on track.2 stars
H is as formulaic as those I’ve already read, ie significant event at the start followed by a long, slow build up of tension (cleverly achieved with detailed descriptions of unnecessary people or settings but which you think you have to read in case you miss an important detail) until we reach the final explosive chapters, usually featuring Kinsey's life at risk and a shoot out.
It happens all the time which is why so many motorists now have dashcams.The formula works for me when I want a quick, easy and entertaining read.
It’s a shame about Z but I still have plenty more to read.
The first part with Kinsey investigating a possible insurance scam while running afoul of a corporate suit that is going to cause her working relationship with California Fidelity Insurance some angst.
Kinsey quickly realizes that the woman, Bibianna Diaz, is possibly tied into Parnell's death and is close to someone that Kinsey used to know from her days back on the force.
We have Kinsey talking about being close friends with Parnell though he was never mentioned in prior books (believe me I looked).
Why she puts herself in danger with running around with Bibianna and the man who is the architect of the insurance scam baffled me.
Normally, I really enjoy Sue Grafton's alphabet mystery books and finish them up rather quickly.
I much rather would have read about Kinsey doing research, running and making sandwiches instead of being thrown undercover in an insurance fraud ring throughout 3/4 of the book.
I don't like undercover stories.
The title itself is wrong for the material- it should have been Hit and Run, or Hustler, or some such thing.
The titular homicide was mentioned in the first chapter, and really turned out to have nothing to do with the plot of the book.
I borrowed this book from my local library. I found like the other ones so far in this series that it is full of action/adventure. It was like the others so far a book worth reading. A side note on this review that this book is my 500th book on my read list since I signed up for good reads site in January of 2012.
In lieu of the review I don't have time to write because the library police are breathing down my neck and I don't want to piss them off again, here is an anecdote related to the book.Me: Oh, my God!
I haven't heard that in years!My 17-year-old son: What?Me: Here.
Tell me if you can figure out what this last word means from context.
(clears throat) "Bibianna lent me some jeans, a T-shirt, and some tennies."Son: Um, nope.Me: I feel very old all of a sudden.Read this series if you like mysteries that take you on a trip down Memory Lane, specifically in the neighborhood of The Eighties and Suburban Southern California.
Good read, memorable characters, interesting case of insurance fraud.
Kinsey Millhone is back, and still working insurance fraud cases. This case involves Kinsey going undercover and working with the police in Los Angeles to expose an insurance fraud ring.The 8th book in the Kinsey Millhone series. While a murder does take place at the beginning of the book, the main story is about insurance fraud. I found it to be slower-paced than some of the other books in this series. So far, this was my least favorite Kinsey Millhone book. I listened to an audio version of this book.
Over the last couple of months, Kinsey has become friends with Parnell, an investigator at California Fidelity.
With no leads, the case begins to fade, and even Kinsey is given a new case to investigate Bibianna for potential insurance fraud.
Her plan is to get close to Bibianna and confirm the fraud, but Bibianna has secrets that complicate Kinsey’s plans.
Furthermore, insurance fraud is the focus more than the homicide, which is disappointing for the “H” entry in the series.
It’s not a bad book, but it’s definitely the weakest in the series to date.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I've just discovered Sue Grafton.
The protagonist, Kinsey Millhone, is the only convincing INTJ female I've ever found in literature, which, IMO, is quite an achievement.Grafton's plots are usually interesting and have another element which is rare.
The plots are from a woman's pov and show how just the fact of being a female detective inherently changes the flow of events in ways that a male author can't really understaqnd, and so can't generate in his own stories (e.g. Robert Parker's 'Sunny Randall' series which suffer from the inability of Parker to convincingly 'become' the woman who is telling his stories).
This book started off slow the only downside is the action happens either in the middle or right at the end of the book.
3 StarsThe circumstances of Kinseys little adventure, seemed far-fetched for insurance fraud. I understood the danger of the criminal; but for her to be in that position would have been a flippin' "No Go" for me. Especially with the ending and who all was involved. It makes sense, but it didn't and it bothered me the whole time I read it. A bad guy is off the street, so its all good. Right? Whatever. It was okay.
I've noticed a lot of people did not like this particular Kinsey Millhone novel, and I can understand why.
It's not the typical Millhone mystery loyal fans are used to.
Kinsey isn't stuck doing the mundane PI work we're used to seeing her do, but instead she's working undercover, something I hope she does more of during the course of this series.
This book is slow in parts, but not enough to slow any of it down and make you abandon it altogether.
When you get to the very last paragraph of the book, every page was worth the read.
Least favorite book so far...the main storyline focuses on insurance fraud, which was kind of a yawn. There weren’t any likeable characters other than Kinsey, and I felt myself annoyed/appalled with just about everybody else. Soldiering on to I.
Another great romp with Kinsey Milhone. This time she stumbles across a very strange type of crime where the criminals deliberately cause accidents in order to claim the insurance money. Kinsey is hired free lance to try to discover the culprits.These novels by Sue Grafton are always enjoyable and its my eventual goal to read them all.
So I pointed out in my last review that I prefer Kinsey working on her own and that is exactly what you get with H is for Homicide.
I think because the story is confined to such a narrow point once Kinsey goes undercover.
I think some of the appreciation also must go to Judy Kaye and her narration.
I developed a true appreciation for some Kinsey’s abilities as clues “click” in her head and she is able to put the big picture together.
I dearly love this book...this mystery story keeps you on your toes the whole time you are reading it from Day One to the very end of the story.
I have read A through H now in this Series and every Book that I have Read is really good.
Here are the Books so far that I have read in this Series:A is for AlibiB is for BurglarC is for CorpseD is for DeadbeatE is for EvidenceF is for FugitiveH is for HomicideEvery book is so good in this Series of what I have read so far.
Not sure I buy the main character as an ex-cop, though she is quick on instincts and observation.
Knew that the bad guy's right-hand man was an undercover cop, but no premonitions for Jimmy Tate or the marriage; Grafton is good at preventing predictability.Good quotes:1.
(Re: an 'efficiency expert' with no tact: "In a world presided over by Agatha Christie, Gordon Titus might have ended up on the conference room floor with a paper spindle through his heart.
In the real world, such matters seldom have such a satisfactory ending."3.
At some point I figured on of these novels would fall flat with me, and this was it.
And I think I figured out why.
Kinsey is undercover for most of the novel, so she isn't really the character we've come to know.
Nor does she have any interactions with her friends, just the new faces she's investigating, none of which are at all likable.
Kinsey's befriended a female con artist trying to go straight who unbeknownst to her has recently married an old friend from grade school who was canned as a cop for being on the take.
In no particular order:- While H may be for Homicide, the story is about car insurance fraud.
- Insurance fraud scams of the early 1990s are an interesting change from the usual for a mystery novel, but it didn't make for riveting reading.
- While under 200 pages, this book is flabby.
It might have been an exciting novella, but instead it's a slow steady slog.
It needed to either be packaged with another novella or have another storyline running through it.
- The book really bogs down once Kinsey gets to Los Angeles.
Kinsey is not that witty, just spends her time working at the office, then a murder in the parking lot seems to be a big story, but doesn't get any attention until the last chapters of the book.
Then our Kinsey gets herself into a real mess, in jail for a night with a crazy person, then she follows said crazy person and friends to LA for several days where she seems content to be a pseudo-prisoner.
This book is not funny.
Maybe she will get a pet in the next book.
It only took me a day to read this one, indicative of its being a bit more riveting than some of the previous alphabetic entries. I liked how it broke away from the more formulaic plots of the previous books and put our prissy heroine in a setting well out of her comfort zone. I recently read Hiassen's "Razor Girl", which was also about insurance fraud, so it made for a good follow-up. I am just going to keep plowing through this series.

A lot of changes occur here as Kinsey gets involved in a case very close to home and ends up losing something that has been a comfort for her, but the story itself is a little flat and the stereotypes hurt the characters.
Every author I have read more than six novels by have a book or even a series that is not as good as their previous work.
Hey even Pixar has stumbled a few times now.I still love Kinsey's character and will read these to the end unless the writing falls off more which I doubt will happen.
I wasn't in love with this book.
The two potential long term love interests were absent, but mentioned and Kinsey spent most of this book pretending to be someone else.
I didn't love the characters and the story line just felt very unfinished.
What happened to all the players in the story?
Also how did Kinsey end up undercover and unsupported?
I guess its hard to invest in the story when most of the players are bad guys and won't be around very long.
The only interesting one seems to be absent come the next story.
this one is just meh.
Not my favorite. Storyline was interesting enough, I guess, but a lot of loose ends for me. Didn't flow right and I was bored through parts of it. I really enjoy this series and the character of Kinsey Milhone even though it is not the most exciting mystery series available. Kinsey is dow to Earth and has a great process for solving her mysteries. Sue Grafton has also surrounded her with a quirky cast of characters. A great series for mystery enthusiasts!
This book seemed to drag on and really didn't go anywhere. The title H is for Homicide so I assumed it would be mostly that. Instead it was more insurance fraud. I am usually very quick at reading books I'm interested in. This book took me two weeks because I wasn't anxious to get back to it. I just wanted it to be over with. Definitely the worst Sue Grafton I have read so far. I hope I is better!!
