https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90607.Freddy_the_Detective
My first literary crush was on Freddy the Pig. He loves to sing and write poetry and while away the day in sweet, sweet contemplation of the finer points in life. But when a challenge arises, he always rises to the occasion with quick-thinking, resourcefulness, and a respect for his fellow creatures.
Reading this book hot on the tail of Tolstoy and the Purple Chair was just a confirmation of the magical pleasure that can be found in books.
One minute, I can be sitting with Nina Sankovitch in her smelly purple chair, thinking deep thoughts about the meaning of life and the things that give it substance, and the next I can be snooping around Mr. Bean's farmyard with Freddy, Jinx the Cat and Mrs. Wiggins the cow, taking down Simon and his evil gang of rats and foiling burglars that knit their own mufflers!
I may never have kids of my own to share these stories with, as my dad shared them with me, but I'll certainly be reading them to my nephews and nieces, as soon as they come along!
It may still be the rose-colored glasses...But I'm still digging this re-read of one of my favorite series from my childhood.It's interesting to see the subtle progression of the characters and the world they interact with.
Very funny. Love all the satire, and don't think it goes over children's heads, as I'm sure this series (what few books that I could find) was a primer for me to appreciate Animal Farm. I love how there are no super-villains... lots of bad guys, but they all have bits of 'humanity' in their characters. And the adventure is interesting, too, including the dramatic courtroom scene.I really wish these were still read, and therefore still available... try them with your child and let me know if there's a chance that we could revive interest in them!
Freddy books were and are a great favorite with me; they bring back fond memories, while still retaining freshness and humor, and I will still be reading them when I'm ninety. :)
A cute, old-fashioned children's story about Freddy, an intelligent pig, who reads about Sherlock Holmes and decides to become a detective.
All the farmyard animals bring their little problems to Freddy, and he does some sleuthing to solve their mysteries.
A little rabbit goes missing, someone steals a toy train, and a cat is wrongfully accused of murdering a crow, but Freddy is up to the task, looking for clues, and tracking down heartless criminals.I enjoyed the charming old style of writing, and the simple story lines.
Although this is the third book of a series, you don't have to read the series in order to be able to understand the story.
I know I should be embarrassed that at my age I am reading Freddy the Pig. But, I enjoyed them so much when I was a kid and got interested again when I wanted my grandchildren to read them. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and the reunion with some of the friends of my childhood. What fun! Am starting another one right now!!! It's going to be hard to relinquish these books to my grandchildren. I guess I'll have to get them their own copies.
My son (5) and I listened to the audio version of this whilst driving around town for the past couple of weeks. The book itself was very fun, set up as a series of vignettes, but bound together by one over-arching storyline. The reading of the book was quite delightful, and we may just have to look into more of the Freddy books. As soon as we finished listening to it (all four cassettes!), my son asked for it again. We're now on our second time.
Actually, I read The Freddy Anniversary Collection, three books in one: Freddy Goes to Florida; Freddy Goes to the North Pole, and Freddy the Detective. The three are the first of a series written between 1927 and 1958 about Freddy the Pig. With his farm animal companions, Freddy has various adventures all delightfully silly but not slapstick. This series was a favorite of one of my brothers. For me, a good old trot down memory lane.
Freddy the Pig has been reading Sherlock Holmes and knows that he, too, can apply his brain to solving mysteries. beginning with Farmer Bean's son's loss of a toy train Freddy becomes very efficient in the apprehension of criminals. In the end he not only solves the case of the murdered crow, but successfully acts as defense attorney for the falsely accused Jinx the cat. How often did Sherlock do that? Used for task 30.2
I enjoy all the Freddy books, but this one is unquestionably my favorite. From Freddy disguising himself to catch the robbers, to the clever way he, Mrs Wiggins, and Jinx plot to trap the rats, to the trial of Jinx for murder, it's a thoroughly enjoyable romp from start to finish. Never were there such animals as the ones on the Bean farm, and Freddy is the cream of the crop!
This book (and the others in this epic saga of pigness) are most likly the best books ever, they are not as dark as other great litirary classics, but, I think everyone should read them as they are fabulous.
I loved this book and plan to read the whole series. Nicholas Kristof, from the NY Times, had an article on his favorite children's books, so I read it and loved it. Clever, sweet, great black and white drawings that you used to see in books like Wind in the Willows.
I love the whole Freddy series, but this has got to be my favorite. I love a main character who is clever, but still has lovable faults.
rec. on a blog... "Walter R. Brooks wrote a zillion Freddy the Pig books, we've only read one. The New York Times Book review called it the American Version of the Pooh books. Need I say more?"
Recommended for Logos Library elementary students.
I have always loved the aesthetic of a vintage childhood; there is just something so charming about a kid playing with blocks rather than an iPad. Which is how I feel about this book.
It was funny at times, and taught a couple of wonderful lessons; it used big words, but nothing too hard for a child, and it was a whimsical look into someone who never really did grow up's imagination.
While I loved reading this book, there was nothing about it that I thought was that extra SUPER special.
The plot of the story is developed through twelve chapters of adventures where Freddy decided to become a detective after he read about Sherlock Holmes.
The lines seems to suggest the content of the different characters and farm to trigger the imagination of the readers rather than careful strong drawn.
Freddy the detective is an appealing book for readers because of the simple language, and the funniness and sweetness of the story.
I would encourage students with these book to write down about what character they would like to be like.
They can develop their writing skills creating an essay explaining briefly in the introduction who they admired and three reasons.
This book was just good, pure, fun. I'll definitely be keeping an eye out for any more books in the series that I can find. The writing was great, and the characters are fantastic and I would highly recommend this to anyone with kids. I would also recommend it to any adult or teenager or any person who's looking for a good time, an easy read, and a lot of heart.
I listened to this book on CD and found my mind drifting off a lot. I simply wasn't that interesting. It was humorous in places and interesting in others, but moved a little slowly. As with most books of that era, almost all of the main and interesting characters are male, although there are a few cows who play a part, and a nagging, hen-pecking hen.
Revisiting a childhood favorite, I found a good story with talking animal characters, humor, action, and lots of mysteries for Freddy to solve. Interesting trivia: the TV series about a talking horse, Mr Ed, was based on a story by the same author
The Freddy books are not to be missed! This may need to be 5 stars. They are so very clever and funny - the characterizations of the animals, the way he words the action, etc etc. This one is definitely a family favorite!!
Freddy is a grand little pig.
Everything I know about life I learned from reading the Freddy books . . . over and over again.
I had a lot of fun reading this aloud to my 7 year old son.
Not just a children's book, but witty social commentary as well. E.g., it is very difficult to engage sheep in issues of policy (not a direct quote.) I suggest reading aloud with young people.
I loved this when I was a kid :D
This was a seminal book from my childhood, a sweet story of a detective pig and his animal friends on a farm. Beautifully written by Walter Brooks, a New Yorker staff member.
It's always nice to read a short kids book for a nostalgic kick.
This was a fun listen! We all had a few good laughs listening to the audiobook in the car.
