https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17483.Five_Go_to_Mystery_Moor
I remember distinctly my teacher, cane behind his back to ensure a quiet classroom, opening his desk drawer and taking out the first book in this series.
Not sure why he thought he needed a cane because when he started reading to the class you could have heard a pin drop.Thus began my love of reading and I went straight to the library to borrow the book.
There was no one in my opinion could write a children's story quite like Enid Blyton and my children and grandchildren have loved theses stories too.
One of the best classic children's series at the time and still loved today.
Any story featuring a group of kids riding horses through a creepy, misty moor gets my horror-loving genes buzzing.The best scene features the kids gathered around a blacksmith's smelting pit while they listen to the blacksmith recount a local legend about how a local family once drove a group of gypsies into the sea and how the myth is that the travelers who occasionally turn up on the misty moors to this day are their ghosts...This book is also notable for being the first book in the series where it is acknowledged within the story itself that books are being written about the Five's adventures, although the specifics of their publishing deal aren't gone into.
Petualangan ke 13 Lima Sekawan!Kali ini Lima Sekawan berkumpul di sekolah kuda milik Bapak dan Ibu Johnson yang baik hati. Disana Lima sekawan bertemu dengan Henry, si tomboy, William, anak kecil yang pemberani dan Si Ingus, bocah dekil yang baik hati.Membaca buku ini saya merasa yakin kalau kelima 'kawan saya' ini sebenarnya adalah anak-anak yang kelewat kepo. Serius deh. Rasa ingin tahu mereka terlalu besar sehingga bisa membahayakan diri mereka sendiri. Yah, untungnya penjahat Lima Sekawan cukup 'baik hati' karena tidak melakukan tindakan yang lebih berbahaya kepada mereka.Salam Limun Jahe!
My favorite childhood read.
Oh Wunder, undurchsichtige Zigeuner und viel Mysteriöses, wär hätte das gedacht.. Die Szenen im Nebel sind aber spannend beschrieben und sehr atmosphärisch. [18.08.2018]
When Julian And Dick comes to the scenes, an adventure begins at their camping place which is a quarry in the moor.
The most exciting part is when a mist so thick hungs on the very night the children finds the parcels and decides to hide them and go home.
Travellers capture Anne, George and Timmy in the quarry, when they don't find Julian And Dick coming back who went to hide the parcels.
George .Anne and Timmy escape with the help of a girl at the Riding school, Henrietta, who would only answer if called Henry and a boy at the stables; William, who is very sensible.
It is hilarious to think that Julian and Dick are allowed to sleep in the barn when the house becomes overcrowded, but it would be out of the question for Anne or George to do this.On the other side of the coin, had this book been written today, surely the natural ending would have been a steamy lesbian encounter between George and Henry.
All through the book there is a brooding tension between the two which is resolved at the end.
Of course, this being a children's book written in the 50's they just become good friends.
This was always a favourite of mine as a child, but as an adult it got a bit boring.
Somehow George's temper tantrums don't give the same thrill when you read from a "grown up" perspective, and neither does the whole 'dressing as a boy' thing.
That aside, myserty lovers will like this one - myserious moors, myserious planes, mysterious packages, all jammed in alongside the obligatory nefarious gypsy gang, the aptly named gypsy boy "Sniffer" (who just wants a bike, please!), horses, ANOTHER girl-who-wants-to-be-a-boy, Henry, friendly farmer's wives, blacksmiths...all the key elements are here for a romping great FF adventure!
Gypsies, mysterious mists, and camping on the moor!I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child. I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them. For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents. Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book! I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
read this in 8th standard and the vast world of fiction, kiddish and adventure... opened up to me :) i absolutely loved the famous five series!
I like the story. But don't love it. My favourite part was the patrins of the gypsies.
Honesty, Bravery, Good wits, and intelligence-to be favorable for an adventure.
Very unique thought for the author.
The famous five always teaches us honesty and good principles and values one should uphold in life.
Always split up to help each other incidentally.
Presented With a scary personality in the book too.
Two or three will be in trouble and the others go to get help.
But I like the unique idea each book presents.
It was really adventurous to read this book!!They’d make fine men and women when they’ll be adults.
I really enjoyed the book with its unique writing style.
Kid fiction is fun to read.ReviewThe plotThe plot is always that the five of the characters get into some trouble while seeking adventure.
They solve mysteries, save others from trouble, eat a lot of delicious food.
The plot gets repetitive after a few reads.Does it sound like HP?
And HP has a great world built inside the books.
The charactersI like how the characters are built.
I can remember them for their character traits.
George: A slightly arrogant, but likable daughter, raised more like a son.
Anne: Geroge's cousin.
Almost opposite of George, behaves most sensibly.
Julian & Dick: Anne's brothers.
Timmy: George's dog.
Comfort zone reading by this stage of the series.
As I remember, a pony trekking holiday at a stables with (another) boy/girl, Henry/Henrietta, for George to dislike.
What would have made these stories really controversial would have been the introduction of a boy character who wanted to be a girl.
They get lost in the fog on the moor and there's talk of catacombs but that's about all I remember but I expect there were some gipsies about so I could learn about piebald ponies.
I forever associate these innocent berries with getting lost in the fog after reading this book.
Luke's Review: The Famous Five went camping on Mystery Moor (Misty Moor) and walked into a mystery! A plane dropped packets of money from the sky and the Famous Five had to figure out why - and then the excitement began from getting tied up to getting lost in a thick mist but in the end they solved the mystery! I LOVE Famous Five books!! I'm going to read The Mountain of Adventure next!
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Ponies. Travellers. Mists. Tiny trains. Moors.Fabulous Famous Five, as per usual. Feeling a serious drive to chase down some literary examinations of Blyton. Or write some.
It seems as if George's cousins: Julian, Dick and Anne are in for an awkward time, when George refuses to let Henry join their company – but will the fiery tomboy prove to be more decent than George expected, when a mystery evolving around the atmospheric: Mystery Moor, emerges, and the children find themselves: yet again, caught up in another adventure!Random thoughts: Was the United Kingdom in the 50s teeming with girls who wanted to be boys, dressed like boys and were happy when people took them for boys?
Hier merkt man die Neuübersetzung. Vagabundierende Zigeuner, denen die fünf Freunden im Mystery Moor begegnen, wurden in der alten Übersetzung sicher so tituliert. Sie sind jetzt die "Traveller", der englische Begriff wurde wohl verwendet, weil "das fahrende Volk" vielleicht auch nicht angemessen schien. Schwierig war wohl, sie auch nicht mehr als die Bösewichte darzustellen, dann hätte die Geschichte nicht mehr funktioniert. :) Ich mochte diesen Band dennoch sehr, Timmy läuft zu Bestleistung auf und George hadert einmal mehr klassisch mit ihren Charakterschwächen - Enid Blyton schrieb sicher in Klischees, aber manchmal ist es genau das, was man braucht.
I realise that this book is a product of its time, however I cannot turn a blind eye to the blatant racism and sexism I found between its covers.I read these and other series by Blyton as a child, and hoped to find some of the old magic there upon revisiting them, but all I found were one dimensional characters following a very predictable plot that contained little to no mystery.Would have given a 1 star rating, but I awarded an extra star in recognition of the joy these gave me over 20 years ago.
Loved this book!! I especially liked the conflict between George and Henry!! The adventure was very unusual even though it concerned travelers again. The moor and mist made it very spooky. Anne is developing into a major character. She comes up with very clever ideas! Hooray for Anne!
I absolutely adored these stories as a kid. I'm so glad they continue to be reprinted for current generations to enjoy!
Love this took me back my childhood . Good pick up in charity shop
Another book from my childhood which is still as enjoyable :-)
Ending was a bit disappointing.
Loved the athmosphere in this book!
My first favorite book. Will always be favorite.Aku rasa petualangan yang diceritakan Enid Blyton dalam bukunya memang 'menyeramkan' daripada normalnya, apalagi tokohnya masih anak-anak. Tapi yang terpikir olehku kemudian adalah karena buku-buku ini ditulis pada tahun 1900-an yang berarti hal tersebut sudah wajar terjadi pada masa itu. Misalnya anak-anak yang melakukan pelancongan tanpa didampingi orang tua.I love the whole story of this book. And I'd love to reread.
Jadi, di tempat ini anak-anak membayar untuk biaya penginapan sekaligus kursus berkuda, sebuah kegiatan yang positif dalam mengisi liburan sekolah.Berawal dari rasa penasaran anak-anak ditambah adanya kaum kelana yang menuju kesana, anak-anak mulai menjelajahi sebuah daerah yang dinamai Rawa Rahasia.
Dalam petualangannya kali ini, teman baru anak-anak dari kaum kelana diberi julukan si Ingus, nama sebenarnya dari si ingus sendiri tidak diketahui, maklumlah, kaum kelana, apalagi Ingus sudah tidak memiliki ibu, ia hanya memiliki seorang ayah yang galak dan bengis.
Dari peternakan sendiri, anak-anak bertemu dengan Henry dan William, serta beberapa anak kecil lain yang belajar berkuda pula di peternakan itu.
Another Famous Five adventure, this time with a train2 February 2013 Well, I am now five books ahead of my reading schedule (of 100 books this year, though I am thinking that I may not try to exceed that, but then we will see as the year progresses) which means that since I am in front I can now read some longer books (because it is easy to read lots of books if they are all short books, or Ancient Greek plays and philosophical discourses). I still have a few Famous Five books yet to read (and t
Hey, I'm not criticising this book because, well, I'm not a famous writer, and even though we are getting to the point where the Five have yet to actually have a birthday, and are still all pre-pubescent, yet have been on thirteen adventures, which have always been on school holidays, it seems that we are suddenly getting caught up in some sort of bizarre time loop.
It is a shame though that the gypsies are portrayed as the villains in this piece, particularly when in a previous book the rather dubious carnies actually turn out to be pretty decent people who help save the day.
Anne and George are staying at a riding school, while Dick and Julian go to a boy's camp.
George is upset, since she misses the boys, but also because, there is another girl, Henrietta, who also wishes she were a girl, and only answers to "Henry".
But much to George's distress, they rather like Henry, and invite her to join them on their first ride together.However, when the Five go off off together and camp on the moor, the fun really begins.
And just what are they doing out on the lonely moor?
