https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/332138.After_Virtue
Each was capable of decisively refuting some of these grounds, but each failed to show that their own best guess was right.The morality that these philosophers were trying to justify consisted of surviving remnants of the virtues like those Aristotle discussed in The Nicomachean Ethics, in which ethics is considered to be the science of how we govern our lives so as to best meet the ends of human living: the human telos.Aristotle’s ethics has this structure: 1) Humans are untutored; 2) Humans have a telos; 3) Ethics is the tutelage necessary for us to achieve our telos.
Our lived reality, which always reflects the philosophical paradigm that is in effect, is deeply emotivist, emotivism being "the doctrine that all evaluative judgment, and, particularly, all moral judgment is nothing but an expression of preference." That being the case there is no moral basis on which to settle any argument.Each society is represented by characters for whom personality merges with social role, for example, that of the headmaster in Victorian England or the Prussian officer.
(There’s another line of reasoning earlier where nietzschean eternal recurrence becomes ludic nihilism.)Ultimately, however, the critiques of modernity and liberalism must end, the cool insights must be exposed as incidentals, and dude shall be compelled to lay his cards on the table: “moral judgments are linguistic survivals from the practices of classical theism which have lost the context provided by these practices” (60)—the loss was produced by liberalism, i.e., “the achievement by the self of its proper autonomy” (id.): the question becomes “whether we view this decisive moment of change as loss or liberation, as a transition to autonomy or to anomie” (61), which is kinda gross as an undecidability.

He roots many of the virtues we now intuitively view as "good" (i.e., courage, loyalty, etc.)in their historical traditions, going back to the so-called "heroic" societies of myth and legend, and particularly to Aristotle.
He traces the downfall of a common basis for the foundation of morality to the Enlightenment and particularly to the changes in the understanding of natural science, which discredited Aristotle's conception of the natural world, on which his ethics and metaphysics rested.
He finds Nietzsche's views on morality as the refuge of the weak to be a stronger argument than the claims of other post-Enlightenment philosophers, though he admits that Nietzsche's "superman" or "man who transcends" is problematic if not ludicrous.
We exist with a history attached to us, a culture, a burden.
So, it seems, that's the best I can do; adopt traditional values after examining them and disregarding the problematic ones, and then build on them, refine them along the way and improve upon them.As for MacIntyre's account of virtue ethics, although I find many aspects of it very attractive, certainly much more attractive than bureaucratic liberalism, I'm still not convinced that it's more objective than the ungrounded, liberal moral theories (e.g., Utilitarianism and Kantian ethics).
A big reason that modern debates over moral issues seem completely interminable and unresolvable is that we no longer have a shared idea of what the goal of a society should be, nor, correspondingly, any idea of the ultimate purpose of an individual living in a society.
In this book, Alistair Macintyre compellingly argues that our contemporary moral reasoning is nothing more than the detritus of a previous moral order that made clear sense: the Aristotelian tradition.
Returning to the Aristotelian conception of morality where morality had a specific purpose to cultivate "virtues" would require a return to communities with specific goals and ideas about their telos.
wrong, and in many ways absurd, but absolutely delightful. This book made me want to do ethics, when I was just a wee lass studying Medieval metaphysics and logic.
And this abstract nature is the design flaw - or Original Sin - of deontological ethics in general.The formalism involved in privileging a universal law without recourse to content, matter, or end is the essence of an empty formlessness.
We can, at best, read Kant's formulation of the categorical imperative as the victory of universal law over the particular content of subjects, objects, matter, & material.No serious empiricist or virtue ethicist accepts that a purely rational moral law (a form) should take priority of over actual duties which are the products of mutual interdependence and customs and habits.
I think a lot of my pastor and ministry friends would not only benefit from this book, but would receive great intellectual stimulation in reading it.Macintyre asks early on, why is it so difficult to have a debate over morals in our society?
That is because there is little common ground to gain headway in the “anything else”.What I loved about this book, and what makes it readable, is Macintyre makes his case through looking at history, telling a story.
So instead of dry, difficult philosophy, Macintyre gives us a narrative.His argument is that we have lost teleology, the sense of where a human life ought to be going.
Like a person on a quest, we should look for narrative unity in life consistent with the role we have in our community in accordance with social tradition.The author discusses a long list of philosophers who attempted to find a universal morality in the scientific tradition, and he finds flaws with all of them:Immanuel Kant simply stated maxims he already believed by his contemporaries to be virtuous and then stated that they could be universalized, but it’s easy to find situations when one should not follow those maxims and well as maxims that can be universalized but are not virtuous.Max Weber invented the science of sociology.
Pick a virtue you would want to have in spades.
Pick a virtue you want others around you to have.
Is there a certain way that people should live, and if so what virtues help them to live that way?
This book got me seriously interested in philosophy. It is everything a book of its kind should be: engaging, convincing, full of urgency.
Saw this as a favorite on a friend's bookshelf. It is also on mine--now I have a reason to move it up on my priority list...
Instead, he favors a tragic view of life, like Sophocles, in which conflict is an unavoidable part of the human condition.Beginning in Chapter 14, "The Nature of the Virtues," then, MacIntyre attempts to reconstruct the concept of virtue in a way that avoids these difficulties.
"Murder is wrong" thus becomes "I do not like murder", and only as profound and meaningful a truth as "ice cream is tasty".As MacIntyre points out, the emotivists, despite this "insight", still cannot help but talk about morality as if it was something universal.
Their own moral statements actually do express nothing more than subjective preferences, and they take that for a general feature of all morality.From there on, MacIntyre criticizes the entire post-Aristotelian philosophical tradition.
If MacIntyre had kept the extremely high standard up that he showed in these and some other passages, I'd have rated this book five stars and declared it one of the best and most important ethical treatises I've ever read up to that date.
But according to MacIntyre, there was indeed such a time when a universally-accepted moral order existed, and moral language actually had a rational basis within a coherent ethical system.
An individual had the right to live by her own conscience rather than having moral precepts dogmatically handed down to them from outside; and thus one's subjective personal conscience became one's guide for life, rather than an objective morality that could not be understood on an individual level, but only in the context of a community understood as a moral body.
I read this in spurts over the last few years. Only recently did I decide to pick it up and finish it. Really good, though some sections dragged on.
Whew.
In general, MacIntyre seems to be making the case that men such as Kant and Hume were doing the best they could to preserve the content of basic morality, but they were all working within an analytic framework that tried to make moral theory an autonomous subject to be investigated on its own, and was inevitably doomed to perish at the hands of a Nietzsche.
What MacIntyre argues was missing is an understanding of morality as a subject necessarily situated in historical traditions, for which the Aristotelian conception of the virtues represents "the best theory so far"--later, I believe, he moves the primary focus to Aquinas, as a better representative of this tradition.
As much as MacIntyre admires Aristotle, he cannot go back to Aristotle's "metaphysical biology." Aristotle's "classical" perspective was replaced with a variety of rationalistic moral theories (e.g., Kant) that Nietzsche accurately and powerfully in MacIntyre's view said were nothing but expressions of subjective will.
MacIntyre then outlines his attempt to thread the needle and put moral theory back on track.
Whether accurate or not in detail, Aristotle was on the right track in anchoring moral theory in biology.
Somehow this line of pursuit might provide the foundation for moral theory that MacIntyre seeks.
MacIntyre's critique of modernity is very insightful and his points on utilitarianism is very damaging indeed.
Many thinkers have of course been very influential, but since MacIntyre is wanting to address what he sees as general tendencies in the culture, and not just within philosophy, I think he should have broadened his scope somewhat.
His reading of Aristotle is very interesting, and as I said, his critique against utilitarianism and against Hume and Kant is very sharp and, in my eyes, attractive (and convincing).
On my philosophy shelf After Virtue is singular in its approachability and astute defiance of contemporary philosophical (& critical) norms.
Its charms are perhaps deceptively anachronistic: MacIntyre shoos the damn geese off his lawn—the geese of course being marxists, relativists, pluralists, existentialists, Nietzschean free spirits and Sartrean sluggards (basically everything I hold dear)—brandishing a tightly wound copy of The Nicomachean Ethics.
Yet passages like the venerated (and terrifically relevant) "civil war carried on by other means"  puncture modern moral discourse with a peerless clarity of thought and breadth of insight.
Mark Lilla calls this book "catnip for grumpy souls." Read the prologue here, and read a quote from p. 216 (on narrative and mythology; Justin Taylor is writing about N.D. Wilson's fiction) here.This may be the MacIntyre book where he says that you can't talk about right and wrong without talking about purpose . . . and you can't keep from talking about right and wrong.
A hard read for the layperson, hence the two stars and the 2 1/2 years it took me to plod through it. As concerns recovery, the work is too abstract and theoretical and not sufficiently practical. For the specialist, however, it's considered a seminal work, one that has contributed to the revival of virtue ethics.
ماكنتاير ناقد عنيف لكل المدارس الليبرالية في الثقافة الغربية بشكل غريب ولافت للنظر .. وما يدعو إليه باختصار شديد في هذا الكتاب الثريّ فلسفيا هو إعادة الاعتبار لمفهوم الفضيلة (وفقا لأرسطو) لذا يندرج في مدرسة المجموعاتية التي تتبنى ذلك ..
This is possibly the most important book I've ever read. It's a cipher for understanding our modern predicament.
This is the most compelling aspect of After Virtue, the place where MacIntyre’s philosophical prowess truly shines.In order to understand how MacIntyre analyzes human behavior, we have to take up his idea of a “practice”:"By a ‘practice’ I am going to mean any coherent and complex form of socially established cooperative human activity through which goods internal to that form of activity are realized in the course of trying to achieve those standards of excellence which are appropriate to, and partially definitive of, that form of activity, with the result that human power to achieve excellence, and human conceptions of the ends and goods involved, are systematically extended." (187)A practice is more complex than a particular skill, but less complex than an institution.
Or again, humans are capable of knowing ourselves, rationally discussing & scrutinizing our beliefs, & thereby also changing our emotions & behaviour (this is the cognitive theory of emotions).
Humans are capable of using their reason to know ourselves & choose our behaviour.
And I mean, all of these Is / Oughts give us a natural ethics based on a core idea of human nature.
One might suppose that Kant is based on human nature?
So Kant's theory, was based on human nature in its perfect form but gave us no practical ladder to get to that perfect form.
He also does well at critiquing the elevation of law as enforcing virtue or defining virtue and the problems manifest in such a shift.To the author modern moral discourse is a hodgepodge of various artifacts from previous ages which cannot be coherently molded together; he credits Nietzsche for identifying the failures of Enlightenment moralism but shows how his project suffers from the same individualistic failings.The author explores how virtue has been understood in the Western tradition; I found his point regarding how the Greeks attempted to reconcile their understanding of the heroes and virtue outside of the heroic age to be compelling, and appreciated his exploration into the difficulties of both Plato and Aristotle in not imagining how there could be a contrast in rival goods, something acutely understood by Sophocles and the tragedians.
