https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54123.The_Neon_Bible
Since "Confederacy" takes up such a large portion of my heart, my soul, I absolutely knew in my bones that this, Toole's first effort into novel-writing (& the only other one-- he wrote solely TWO), would suck.
The observations belong to a kid similar to the one in "400 Blows." You read about a childhood in less time than it takes to watch that whole movie "Boyhood"!
Its a short novel that does not disappoint (it is almost antithetical to his ensemble oeuvre of "Dunces"); it hints at a grief that begins in childhood and ends, perhaps, never.
yazarın bu kitaptan başka sadece bir kitabı daha olduğuna üzülmüştüm.
Erken yaşta intihar etmesi, yaşayışı yazara daha çok ilgi göstermeme neden olmuştu.
Taa ki bir arkadaşım bana bu kitabı hediye edene kadar.
Neon Bible in Türkçeye çevrilmiş olmasına sevinmiştim ama o kitabın hediye edilmiş olmasına çok ama çok daha fazla sevindim.Kitabı dehşetle okudum.
1930 larda Amerikanın güneyinde geçen bu öykü sadeleğine çok kitapta rastlamadığım bir dille yazılmış ama o sade anlatımın altında öyle şeyler var ki insan yutkunmadan edemiyor.
Kitabın önsözü de bugün artık örneğine çok rastalayamayacağımız ve kitaba yakışır sadelikte yazılmış.Ne kadar erken gitmiş Toole, yaşasaydı neler yazacaktı diye düşünmeden edemiyorum ben de.
Bittersweet SixteenIt would be a significant literary achievement to write a convincing novel from the perspective of a sixteen year old narrator. It would be an even greater achievement, as here, if the author too was sixteen years old.This novel is relatively straightforward in the way it unravels the plot. It's conventional and linear, until at the end you discover that it's actually circular. However, like  "Stoner",  one thing it does well is create pathos, although in this case there is no
Bittersweet SixteenIt would be a significant literary achievement to write a convincing novel from the perspective of a sixteen year old narrator.
The novel creates empathy for the simple poor people who are struggling to build a good life in the context of not just poverty, but social ostracism.
That's why everybody was so much alike." The 16 year old narrator effectively skewers the judgemental self-righteousness of some deplorable religious and political fraternities in America.Religious CorrectnessIt's so easy to forget that, before so-called "political correctness" existed, society laboured under the oppressive weight of religious correctness (how often do we hear people banging on about Christian values?) for centuries.
Sin llegar al nivel de maestría alcanzado en La conjura de los necios, es tremendo que Toole fuese capaz de escribir esta novela con tan solo 16 años, que alguien de esa edad fuese capaz de diseccionar así ese pueblo sureño, a sus habitantes y su grado de fanatismo, con ese nivel de ironía certera. Maravilloso.
It could have used an editor but mostly it could have used not being written by a 16 year old.
He was clearly a very talented young man, his writing is beyond anything I can imagine a 16 year old writing today lololololjkjkjkjkjk but still this reads as though written by a naive boy.Neon Bible has been compared to the work of Flannery O'Connor, Eudora Welty and Carson McCullers but having seen the pleasure these writers have given GR friends Jeffrey and Melanie I can't imagine they are on a whole different level to this.For those intrigued by the only other book written by a Pulitzer Prize winning novelist only.
'La Biblia de neón' fue la primera novela que escribió, siendo apenas un adolescente, y sólo puedo decir que es una obra con fuerza, con imágenes indelebles que permanecen a fuego en la memoria tras varias horas después de su lectura.Toole nos cuenta la historia de David y de su familia en un pueblo sureño de Estados Unidos, cuya población, o la mayor parte de ella, se deja influenciar fácilmente por su predicador.
Como todo está narrado precisamente desde el punto de vista de un niño que luego se convertirá en adolescente, que encima siempre ha recibido una educación muy rudimentaria y que siempre ha vivido aislado, el estilo simple, directo, repetitivo y algo limitado funciona perfectamente.
Y hay el típico personaje excéntrico de turno: Tía Mae, que había trabajado como cantante/artista, pero que ahora ya se ha hecho demasiado vieja y que todo el pueblo critica, por culpa de sus excentricidades (centradas básicamente en su forma de vestir), y que sin duda es una delicia de personaje.
La Biblia de neón dista mucho de ser la obra maestra que es La conjura de los necios, pero sí que ofrece pistas del apabullante potencial que tenía John Kennedy Toole como narrador.
El escritor norteamericano ofrece en esta novela, la primera que escribió siendo apenas un adolescente, un retrato brutal del fanatismo religioso como elemento de dominación a través de la mirada inocente e ingenua de un niño criado en el seno de una familia humilde y un tanto excéntrica.
Sus observaciones y experiencias resultan demoledoras a la par que emotivas, y su apasionante evolución como personaje concluye en una vertiginosa escalada de violencia que te deja sencillamente devastado.
This is the novel I think I would recommend to anyone that can’t take a young writers seriously because of their age.
It’s about small towns mentality, and religious hypocrisy.
Some might say this shows the writers age, but to me it has more to do with the fact that it is a first novel.
It shows that even though the writer was young when he wrote this, the reader can still take this novel seriously.
And it actually makes me even more interested in reading his other novel, which I have been told many times is a very good one.
As if these weren’t enough, yet more troubles ensue, accumulating to the point that he is compelled to escape to the city, leaving innocence in his wake, and only the memory of bitter experience for reflection.Juxtaposed, Toole’s two novels differ in style, language and humour – understandably, as he was just 13 or so when he wrote The Neon Bible, whereas he wrote A Confederacy of Dunces as an adult.
The first lines of this book were so vivid for be, I could see exactly what the author wrote. I just kept re-reading them.It is such a powerful book, I often recommend highly to others. It was made into a film in the last decade, but got little play and lesser reviews. If you like "Ironweed", this is your cup of joe.
La historia me llamó la atención desde la reseña de la parte de atrás y al comenzar a leerlo no me decepcionó.
El pueblo que Toole describe se me antojo casi real.
Más que el estilo de la prosa (bueno a secas), resalta el tema de la obra y la crítica social que hace al fanatismo religioso dominante en los pequeños pueblos estadounidenses antes y durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Me dejó pasmada el hecho de que fue escrita cuando Toole tenía apenas 16 años.
La juventud del escritor y lo corto de la novela me hacen querer leer su otra única novela antes de declararme fan.
This was a solid to good coming-of-age story written by John Kennedy Toole at the age of 16.
Toole is better known for his Pulitzer Prize winning novel A Confederacy of Dunces, his only other published work.
Neon Bible is a piece of juvenilia that only saw the light of day due to the smashing success of Dunces, and was written by a raw and developing talent.
There is room for Toole to grow as a writer across the board (plotting, characterization, prose, etc.).
Toole has crafted a solid bildungsroman with some fine literary grace notes.
Když mi Pali dával tuhle knížku, říkal sem si: “Peči, ty kanóne, todle bude bouda!” Četl jsem totiž Spolčení hlupců a to bylo vtipný jak Petr Novotný.
Pali ale trval na tom, že tohle nejsou humoři a tak jsem se smiloval a knihu si v jeho krámu koupil.
Jako bonus jsem dostal několik panáků a jednosměrný lístek do Staré Bolehlavi.Neonová bible vskutku není taková příšernost jako Spolčení hlupců, ale vejbuch to taky není.
Je sice pěkné, že to Toole napsal ve svých šestnácti letech, ale Tomáš Jun taky začal v šestnácti hrát za Spartu a stejně to nedotah ani do Bundesligy.
Where Confederacy really shines through as a comic masterpiece with larger than life characters, The Neon Bible is a serious story told in some of the most emotional language I've ever seen come across a printed page.
It's the simplicity in which Toole writes, without trying to be poetic, that the real poetry comes out.Although really an account of David's childhood, his observations about people are just as brilliant as his expression of emotion.
The very simplicity with which Toole points out the negative side of humanity is also wonderfully expressed.
This is one of the most surprising books I have ever read.
As I started to read the story I thought, "That's not the only reason.
It's a little childish," but I was wrong.
Yes, the speaker was childish, but he is a child.
Toole does a magical job being the voice of this character.
That's what I'm talking about people.
That's what I'm talking about.
Now that I know the ending, I have to go back and re-read it.
Damn you John Kennedy Toole.
You have forced me to long for a book from you, that I will never be able to read.
It just oozes sadness and it can get to be a bit unbearable at times, but after I got into the heart of the book this second time I started reading it, I also found it to be really compelling and it really drew me into this world.
The young boy telling the story uses perfectly believable language to describe his world in clear detail.
I've found that books with a young narrator can prove to distract me when their language seems wrong somehow, but this never happens here.
It reads so honestly it's as if O'Toole wrote this as a journal when he was that young.
I intended to specify that it's easy to read because I was thinking of all the vampire novels people are reading because they want something easy, that flows and all that, and of this article about the issue: http://www.salon.com/books/laura_mill....This is a novel that you can finish reading pretty quickly.
Yet, I suspect that people that go for Dan Brown and co.
do it not for the unsophisticated phrase but for the escape from everyday issues these novels offer.
In the end, I liked that the novel goes very deep despite its fast pace.
Win Butler swears that Arcade Fire's album and title track of the same name are of no relation, but they are so close in subject matter and tone that I am skeptical of the claim.The Neon Bible is an immensely sad book and, having also read The Confederacy of Dunces, leads me to believe that there are whispers of autobiographical confession in its pages. The understated emotion of a young boy trying to make sense of the absurdities and hypocrisy that surround him.4.0/5.0
Clean. Concise. Haunting. This book stays with you. A fantastic novel, made all the more so taking into account the age of the writer. Written with more honesty and emotion than many writers twice his age are capable of. Even discounting Conspiracy of Dunces, this book alone makes Toole's eventual suicide all the more tragic. One of the biggest losses of potential in modern American literature.
ELEVATOR TO HEAVEN IS CROWDED DUE TO FIRE IN ARCADE.
Long before A Confederacy of Dunces, a young John Kennedy Toole wrote an at-times quite lovely, chilly novel about sub-Mason-Dixon desperation in the O'Connor/Porter/McCullers mode.
It reminds me, rather, of how I used to think and write as an adolescent, which is to say that I wanted to write frigid, minimalist stories about my own regional turf that acted as panegyrics against the hypocrisy and stupidity that I felt surrounded me at all times.
Actually, if anything, I wanted to be an Upper-Midwest Carson McCullers.
By all reports, Toole felt the same.

Tragically, there also seems to be a world-weary edge to the novel that no sixteen year-old should have to bear, a burdensome cynicism that undoubtedly contributed to Toole’s tragic suicide in 1969 at the age of thirty-two.Toole is best remembered for his Pulitzer Prize-winning masterpiece, “A Confederacy of Dunces” – which his mother succeeded in publishing a few years after her son’s suicide.
Kenneth Holditch, who inherited the rights to “The Neon Bible” after Toole’s mother’s death, and who eventually lost the fight to respect Toole’s wishes.In his introduction, Holditch hopes that the two novels Toole wrote in his lifetime will “constitute testament to a genius,” and they certainly do.
"The Neon Bible" is a remarkable work in many respects, most notably because it is the early work of an author still in the embryonic stages of becoming a writer, and while it bears almost no tonal or stylistic resemblence to the work that would make Toole famous, it is still a quite solid read.Whereas "A Confederacy of Dunces" seemed almost hyper-obnoxious with its lead character, Ignatius Reilly, as its figurehead, "The Neon Bible" is a marathon of calm observation.
La otra novela del creador de La conjura de los necios, John Kennedy Toole, un escritor que con apenas un legado de dos libros deja una marca particular.
Escrita a los quince años se advierten elementos que varios años después usaría en su otra obra.
Mención aparte para la edición octava que leí de Anagrama, editorial famosa por sus buenos libros y malas traducciones que noto en sus ultimas publicaciones una merma marcada de calidad, algunas páginas tienen estrofas con poca tinta y la cubierta es de un material muy fino apenas plastificado que se dobla y marca no importa el cuidado.
Nunca pude con La conjura de los necios. Nunca me hizo gracia, más bien al contrario. El patetismo de Ignatius me provocaba una inquietud insoportable y lo abandoné.Esa sensación tan desagradable también se desprende de La Biblia de neón pero su intensidad aumenta de forma gradual, por tanto, es tolerable.Su protagonista, David, es un pusilánime, pero su melancolía es comprensible y sus descripciones muy tiernas.John Kennedy Toole tenía un don, el de la escritura, y una habilidad, exprime estómagos como nadie.
Bu kitapı yazdığında Toole 17 yaşındaydı ve 17 yaşında böyle bir eser veren birinin çok yaşamayacığını bilmek için kahin olmaya gerek yok. Alıklar Birliği ile hayran kalıp biraz araştırınca bulmuştum bu kitabı, yeni baskısı olmadığı için edinmek zor olabilir ama Alıklar Birliği'ni okuyan herkese ve Amerikan taşrasının o boğucu, nefes aldırmayan iklimininin genç bir bünyede açabileceği kesiğin büyüklüğünü görmek isteyenlere tavsiye olunur.
As you might know, the legend goes that his mother Thelma thrust the manuscript of "Confederacy" into Walker Percy's hands one day while he was at Loyola University in New Orleans (where the Toole family lived) teaching a creative writing course and insisted that her son's work was a masterpiece.
Yes, the experiences described are from a teenager's perspective and the language is certainly not complex, but Toole tells the story from a darkness and hindsight that is difficult to obtain, I think, at such a young age as fifteen or sixteen.
La primera novela de John Kennedy Toole (publicada de manera póstuma) ya indicaba la clase de escritor que iba a ser y que sólo la muerte prematura impidió desplegar por completo (aunque hubo tiempo para disfrutar de La conjura de los necios).
Los personajes de La Biblia de neón son asiduos, aparecen constantemente a lo largo de la vida del protagonista, lo que ayuda a conformar esa atmósfera de pueblo pequeño y asfixiante.
La forma en que Toole retrata las monotonías rurales adquieren un tono atrayente que te impide dejar de leer aunque algunas cosas de las que se narran te importen bien poco.Una novela que hace que te entristezca saber que el autor murió con apenas 32 años.
