https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114873.St_Mawr_The_Man_Who_Died
round up from 3.5 starsst mawr - rough and messy novella about a woman's burning desires for an untamed man absent from the modern world, which uses a wild stallion as its metaphor.
as if that doesnt drive home the point enough, the final third muses on white women's innate desires for miscegenation.
i feel like if it were written today it would contain lots of instances of "alpha" and "beta"the man who died - an account of jesus' life post-crucifixion.
in the days after his resurrection, jesus spends his time organising a cockfight and knocking up a priestess of isis.
The long novella St. Mawr rather dwarfs the short story, The Man Who Died in this slim volume, but both are D.
H. Lawrence at his very finest!
St. Mawr continues with Lawrence's primary theme of a frustrated woman looking for a man who is full of life, but in this case her inspiration turns out to be an unmanageable stallion.
In The Man Who Died, Christ wakes up in his cave still alive and realizes that he has been given a second chance at life.
It is extraordinarily beautiful prose and one of the great works of art in the English language.
Some of the reviews here mentioned "overlong" descriptive passages. I love Lawrence's descriptions, especially of the natural world. That's the main reason I read his work. He helps me see the world anew.
Two quite interesting novellas. The writing in "St. Mawr" once the characters arrive in Arizona is exceptional. Lawrence manages to both explicate his philosophy and write beautifully. "The Man Who Died" is a rather startling thing, a jolt to one steeped in the Judeo-Christian tradition. I don't know that I could ever be a strict adherent to Lawrence's philosophy, but it is certainly something that will provoke thought. To state it simply, he does make some very good points. A little book I am happy to have found.
And to think that Christ might have said, "The teacher and the saviour are dead in me; now I can go about my business, into my own single life." I like this Jesus, given all the twists and turns his story has endured due to man's interference and need to control the plot.St. Mawr...I so like Mrs. Witt, damnable snob and icon that she is.
I think about all the claptrap and true talk about gender differences, historical fact and fiction, and the way to find meaning in one's life.Good to re-read Lawrence, too, in order to remember his travel writing, poetry, painting - despite being hounded by censors for most of his life.
this was the first lawrence i read.
i liked it so much more than 'sons and lovers', which i hated.
mawr' has a lot of amazing stuff about the nature of existence, idealism, and good vs.
evil.
peep this: 'mankind, like a horse, ridden by a stranger, smooth faced, evil rider.
evil himself, smooth faced and pseudo handsome, riding mankind past the dead snake, to the last break.' yikes.
'the man who died' is a supposition that jesus didn't actually die on the cross but instead was taken down too soon.
('sons and lovers')
"The Man Who Died" is Lawrence's brilliant evocation of a Christ who did not die on the cross, but lives as a man, seeking the meaning of existence as he travels from place to place.
I first read it in high school, and it's one of those touchstone books, that makes your brain turn around in it's pan.
I first read this book (both short novels combined) in high school, when the Christ story blew my mind, then re-read it in college, and about twice a decade since then.
It always amazes me that college courses rarely include these novelettes. The first, The Man Who Died, picks up the story of Jesus after he awakens in the crypt. He finds that he is alive and ready for a new chapter in his life. Like no other author, Lawrence take Jesus through a transformation of unimaginable growth and conclusion.
The Man Who Died was very interesting. St. Mawr was as well, but only the second time I read it. The first time was for high school English class and I found the endless descriptive passages tedious to get through. Once you've read it, re-reading it is a pleasure because you speed through those parts.
St. Mawr is not only one of my favorite DH Lawrence books, but one of my top 5 from the period. Who doesn't love a story about a girl and her horse, and how her man will never measure up to the steed? Me.
I have this 1953 edition cover; its tattered and every time I touch it, it feathers away. But I don't mind it at all.
Great story--full of horse riding symbolism. Especially great is the mother-in-law in this book. I don't remember reading about one so awful.
The protagonist, Lou Witt, is a young woman who starts to feel trapped by society and by the lack of vitality in men.
There seems to be at times a lack of vitality and enjoyment and too big of a focus on acting a role for society.I loved the symbolism of the horse and nature.
He has the same lively mystery as the horse, yet he is hostile towards Lou and everyone else who represents society.
I also really enjoyed the banter between Lou and her mother, Mrs. White.
That's worth a quarter." The previous owner must have written a paper on St. Mawr.
Alot of underlined phrases, encircled paragraphs and occasional question marks.
That and I realized I don't give a crap about a novella about a horse.
I'm sure if I got over that and really read it, I would get alot out of it like the previous reviewers have.
The next novella, "The Man Who Died" was much better.
No horses.
This is a much better story because no one did a paper on it using the copy I read.
I can't imagine a better capturing of the feelings post WWI, the contrast of loss and too much-ness; the overweighing depression amongst splendor; the turning to nature to fill the void of industrialism.
So, I'm saying, for the record, that D.H. Lawrence deserves his place amongst classic writers, and his level of natural wordcraft was last seen around Thoreau and Blake.THAT BEING SAID, I swear to God, St. Mawr is one breathy voice actor away from being furry erotica, and it made me distinctly uncomfortable.
What also would have been awesome is put Louise on anti-depressants, geez, guuuuurrrrrllll, you messed uP.
Two strange novellas - the first paragraph of the first one and the last paragraph of the second could bookend a great novel, and there are some great quotes and observations, but the narratives fell short. Motive-less dissolute finding truth in wild nature of horse seemed especially weak.
Jesus is taken down from the cross too soon and doesn't die. Finds love and life. Unmistakably Lawrence but not top tier. I have to agree with Fr. Maynard, President at SVC when I was there, who said 50 years ago Lawrence should be remembered for his poetry.
When you talk about the two most famous banned authors -- D.H. Lawrence and Henry Miller -- it is Lawrence who has always seemed to me to be the more prurient, given the Victorian and repressed nature of sex as he writes of it.Thus, a horse serving as an underlying sexual metaphor.
Brief thoughts here: http://abbyf.wordpress.com/2009/04/16...
Both stories are great.
1) St. Mawr2) The Man Who Died
St. Mawr and the Man Who Died by D. H. Lawrence (1953)
Two decent stories. The Man Who Died re-imagines Jesus' resurrection. The Jesus in this story is pretty pitiful. In fact, it's pretty safe to say I hated him.
Read this for a class at Moody called "images of Christ in the novel". Lawrence's "theology" is most disturbing but it was an interesting read.
