https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116249.Adulthood_Rites
In a nutshell it is the story of the last humans living under the domination of seemingly benign aliens (“Oankali”) who saved our species from extinction on an almost destroyed Earth.
The first book Dawn is about life on board the ship, Adulthood Rites is about mankind’s return to repopulate the Earth and the price we have to pay for the alien’s rescue.This second volume shifts the focus of the story to the point of view of a new protagonist Akin who is the son of Lilith lyapo, the main character of Dawn, and two other alien parents.
This second of the series left me feeling sad for the humans who keep repeating their stupid, violent behavior. Akin in trying to save them must lose himself and lose his own people.
The Oankali offered humanity a second chance, but at a price — to merge its genes with the Oankali, who are ‘gene traders’ driven to continuously seek new species in the galaxy to combine their DNA with, transforming both sides in the process.10 years after the events of Dawn, Lilith has given birth to a son named Akin, the first male ‘construct’ to be born to a human woman.
If I had to choose one key theme for this series, it would be ‘transformation,’ with all the implications it has for both sides.In both Dawn and Adulthood Rites, we gradually come to see through the experiences of Akin that both humans and Oankali are less than perfect, and their motivations are not completely altruistic.
The story continues few years after the events in  Dawn . Earth is habitable again, the Oankali allowed humans to live ‘free’ (they are called resisters) or with them in the Amazonian jungle. ‘Free’ is not just what is should be; all humans have been sterilized and they can only procreate with Oankali involvement, so homo sapiens is heading for extinction. First ‘construct’ - mixed race - children are born; some of the resisters love them, others are afraid of them, others feel revulsion. One th
The story continues few years after the events in 
. Earth is habitable again, the Oankali allowed humans to live ‘free’ (they are called resisters) or with them in the Amazonian jungle.
‘Free’ is not just what is should be; all humans have been sterilized and they can only procreate with Oankali involvement, so homo sapiens is heading for extinction.
One thing is certain: Akin, the first male construct born, will change the world and their lives.
Again, it’s not an action driven story; this is a coming-of-age one, continuing with the same profound themes started in the first volume.
When I read these books in high school, I remember thinking, "Why would anyone cling to human life when the oankali are so much better and more interesting?" -- but lack of stories and music gives me pause.
Things I do consider to be flaws in the book:- The view of genetics seems unduly mechanistic -- the idea that behavior, character, personality are all in the genes, as if you could say about humans what you say about dogs: "This breed is good with children," "this breed is friendly," etc.
In the end, Lilith agrees to the deal when she realizes that she can never be with her fellow humans who refused the deal by the Oankali who want to live apart from them.
Lilith's son Akin is curious about his parents, the world around him and when he is kidnapped by a group of Resister men he gets to see human beings up close and personal.I actually liked the character of Akin.
This book starts years after the first one, as the humans and Oankali are established on Earth, and have been giving birth to Oankali/human construct children for quite a while now.
I maybe missed the explanation of why they're called constructs, because aren't all children through the mediating influence of an Oankali ooloi (their third sex, masters of genemixing) constructed, whether part human or not?
I mean, isn't that what makes the Oankali what they are?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
Like Dawn, this novel had me rambling on to friends and family about Lilith and her relationships, the Oankali and their culture.One of my friends, when I described how the Oankali feel pain when they cause it, and feel pleasure when they cause it, picked up on the theme that recurs throughout all Octavia's work that I've read - of unconditional empathy.
Because they can feel others' emotions, sometimes they use manipulation:"They forced you to have kids?" the man asked."One of them surprised me," she said.
Akin is the first construct to be born to a human mother, and because he looks more human on the outside, he's easily accepted by other humans who have chosen to reject the oankali and the gene trade (from Dawn).
Since they can't have children of their own, the humans who've rejected the oankali turn to abduction; they only choose the most human-looking children to take back to their village.
Later on, he comes to understand why having human children born to human parents is so important to these people.
I find it hard to believe, maybe because I don't want to.According to the alien species in this book, as humans we are deeply hierarchical, we follow or we want to be followed, which is the main reason for the majority of our wars and atrocities committed in our past.
I found the first half of the book highly enjoyable and thought-provoking, but the second one was lost on me.
The reason why I am unable to rate Miss Octavia's books 5 stars is because, despite how much they've shocked me and captivated me, I don't think I'll ever be able to reread them.
In particular, Akin is cognitively highly developed, and capable of speaking as an infant.
He is afraid to show his level of development to the raiders, as they might take fright and kill him.Akin is settled into a human village, but is constantly on edge due to the easily frightened and offended people.
They are extremely paranoid, and afraid of other villages, raiders, as well as the aliens.
Anybody who has been in contact with the aliens is especially vulnerable to being killed.Octavia Butler's personal philosophy is clearly spelled out in her books.
This is every bit as good as I remember. This book picks up decades after Dawn and features the first human-born male Construct. I loved Akin and his adventures. He's right about a human Akjai. We probably will destroy it but we deserve the chance. Personally I wouldn't go but I'd be more peaceful knowing humanity was continuing unaltered somewhere far away from my descendants.
None of this was helped by having the main character and narrative POV, Akin, be an infant for roughly the first half--also those parts of the story that were most traditionally action-packed and "human" oriented.
There is a revealing irony in this, deliberate on Butler's part, that Akin's goal is the preservation of humanity, and yet Butler seemed intent on moving her storytelling closer to what might be called the Oankali, or at the very least, the hybrid construct perspective.
Bottom line: It's intellectually challenging and has its fascinations, but the book ends up feeling much more like a speculative exercise or narrative experiment than the first.
Large numbers of rebelling humans have run off to form their own communities, which the Oankali allow because they are kind.
The reader can’t help but feel some shame for that truth as evident in the emergence of depraved, violent humans who lead a marauding life dependent on kidnapping of normal appearing hybrids and selling them to the settlers for trade goods.
Even though they are the path to warfare again, having invented and initiated the use of firearms, Akin can’t help feeling they deserve a chance to change and survive.
How can he persuade the all-knowing Oankali that the human species deserves another chance.
Lilith Iyapo is now living back on Earth with her blended family and several hybrid children including Akin, a human looking male baby, who is already very intelligent and advanced for his age.
The Oankali are very resistant to this idea and believe that because of their hierarchical nature, the humans will simply destroy any future societies they are allowed to build.This is an interesting book that fleshes out the vision the Oankali have for the remnants of the human species - those who can accept having unusual sexual bonding of alines and humans and the hybrid 'construct' children produced by such unions and those who will have no part of it but are doomed to die without being able to create a new generation.
An intriguing continuation to the story started in Dawn. Though I was content with Dawn as a self-contained story it was fascinating to see how Butler expanded all of the concepts she'd put forward and looked at how different and mixed species would continue to interact over time. I enjoy Butler's quiet, meditative prose and her nuanced development of characters. The only major flaw was that this book really does feel incomplete - you really are going to have to read the next one to find out what happens.
Tengo la sensación de que es el más humano de los tres. Me gustó más el primero por sus personajes (aquí se centra en otros, pero en el mismo contexto, aunque unos años después), pero los temas que plantea siguen siendo muy interesantes.Octavia Butler ha sido un auténtico flechado literario.
Finally, Ms. Butler veers a little bit into biological determinism here (view spoiler)[for example, males are determined to be the main source of the Human need for self-destruction, not females (hide spoiler)], which I thought was a bit simplistic, but on the other hand, there is always something controversial in her books, and it made me ponder a lot of things I might not have otherwise pondered.Ms. Butler has created another thoughtful, disturbing, and clever work of art with this second in the series.
I eventually decided on four because despite my annoyance with the constant talk of mating and the sexual function of the Oankali, I deeply admire the very fluid and ingenious way that Butler introduces her central issues and messages.Much like Dawn, the first book in this series, we have been presented with moral and ethical dilemmas that do not have easy answers.The Oankali have saved Earth and the few remaining inhabitants from a man made disaster.
They propose a blending of our races, but in doing so, humankind will cease to exist as we know it.The Oankali have a complex mating/communication system that rankles against our very fixed understanding of gender and sexuality.
As with the first book, this one leaves significant issues unresolved.The problematic nature of the "deal" offered by the Oankali to the Humans becomes increasingly clear in this book, the story of Akin, the first male Human-Oankali construct born on Earth.
These communities are desperate for children, and willing to raise even a human-Oankali "construct" (provided that it looks mainly human) rather than have no children in their communities.
This volume reveals an important bit of information that the Oankali have withheld from humans in offering them a choice.
At first, as any person, I would deny that humans would act the way the resisters act in this book, and yet, the truthful part of me knows!
I know, humans would act exactly this way.
Because of course, even when the subject says no, the Oankali knows they really meant yes.
lolI don't want to give away too much of the book, so I cannot comment too much on the events of the book.One last comment: I was glad to see a little less alien sex, although saddened that it was traded in for human rape.

The second installment went in such a different direction than I anticipated, and was even better for the shift. Instead of starting right where we left off after the first book, we skipped ahead to join Lilith and her family, as well as the human resisters, a little further along. And we get to see both groups from a new perspective...that if their blended children.... the only ones who really understand both sides of this "trade".
Reading these books has been an enjoyable experience!
Octavia Butler managed to make me care about certain characters and their actions that frustrated me and yet also see the reason behind their motives too, all due to the great way she weaved the story.
I think you get more out of this trilogy if you don't leave a huge time gap in-between the three books because it feels like a cohesive single story broken up into parts especially with the way this second book ended.
On to the final book i go!
The aliens charged her with the task of picking and choosing humans to revive, one at a time, to gradually and carefully introduce them to the reality of their situation.
Lilith gradually discovers that, in order to ensure humanity’s survival, the Oankali has done something drastic: they have made it impossible for humans to breed by themselves.
Many humans find the constructs repulsive, but some take what they can get.Akin befriends a couple, Tate and Gabe, who, in the first book, were part of a group that wanted nothing to do with the Oankali.
Fun Fact: LeVar Burton says Octavia Butler is his favorite author.That man has been telling me what book I should read next for 20 years.
It has themes of puberty, kinship, and the (in this case literal) story of the Phoenix, but it never oversteps itself.
I read an interview where Octavia Butler said she specifically chose science fiction because it allowed her to write about serious issues that people needed to talk about under a cloak that allowed people to talk about them.
After reading a pretty bad book, Butler's writing is a beautiful treat.
This is a series every Human should read.
About halfway through, I realized I was reading a deeply personal statement of self-understanding and place in the world expressed in a unique and distinctive creative format.I felt a kinship with this woman who knew she was different and not just on the outside.
Like the main character in this book, Akin, she might at first seem alright, but one only need to see the tongue to know the insides were way different.And, that was only the start.During metamorphosis, or, for her when people got to know her, quite often the differences became more obvious and the fear greater.Once Ms Butler received the genius award, she could no longer write because she was now mainstream.
Excellent and even better than Dawn (Xenogenesis, book 1).
The conflicting views between Oankali and humans are now expressed within one individual, which made them for me even more impressive.
Ever so often I found myself pondering both sides and finding contradictionary truths.
I don't know for sure.I guess, I can easily say, that Butler is the one author who ensures that I not only think about the story but foremost about myself and my believe system.
Even though she seems to tend towards the Oankali way, she gives both sides room to grow and reflect.
I can't wait to learn how this trilogy concludes.
In which Octavia Butler continues to terrify me with her characters agreeing to sensible, logical, and endlessly painful choices.
