https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557229.Five_Go_Down_to_the_Sea
One of them isn't even a thing.)The Five encounter a little boy called Jan in this story.
He wants nothing but to be their friend and they continually tell him to bog off.
I found this behaviour very unattractive and it made me want to give them all a slap.
He is clearly the better person here.While I'm still enjoying these books, I think I may be running out of things to say about them.
If you have chosen to read book twelve in a series without reading the first eleven, you are clearly deeply disturbed; seek professional help.
Die Fünf Freunde sind ja schon fies zu Jan, sie haben seine Hilfe eigentlich gar nicht verdient.. Nicht wirklich was Neues, wie immer Höhlen Höhlen Höhlen und fiese Männer. [26.08.2018]
Reading Famous Five during lunch hour at work makes me remember my childhood.
Everything is so cozy and familiar.
But those gender roles, ugh, they annoy me so much now.
I used to think that George was cool, but now I see she is the "boy" who is not quite as boyish and brave as the boys.
I loved these books as a kid, but while I do get a certain sentimental enjoyment out of them now, I can't say I love them anymore.
But really, there should be new "Famous Fives" with updated gender roles.
Wonderful book!Never imagined that those barnies would turn out to be the main villains.One of the best mystery thriller I’ve read till now.
Discovering the foreign land of Cornwell12 November 2012 It seems that by this book, which is the twelfth in the series, Blyton is settling into a rhythm. The Famous Five are not aging and each year is merging into this one never ending year that seems to have an endless amount of holidays (sort of like the Simpsons, except without the endless holidays). This is not all that surprising since the Famous Five are quite popular and obviously there was a demand for the books. Fortunately Harry Potte
Discovering the foreign land of Cornwell12 November 2012	It seems that by this book, which is the twelfth in the series, Blyton is settling into a rhythm.
Fortunately Harry Potter never turned out like this, but then again Harry Potter has a plot and all of the books were moving towards that end.
What put me off was that this group of children were actually so mean to Yan, despite the fact that Yan not only turned out to be good, but also saved them as well.
But I like him.""Another character that speaks funny is Mr. Penruthlan.
Mr. Penruthlan IS the bad guy!""I love Clopper, the horse that can sit cross-legged.
Of course I know that he's not a real horse!
How could a real horse sit like that?""The funniest part is when Dick and Julian got into the Clopper costume and couldn't unzip it.
Isn't that the same as that purple dinosaur that I used to like when I was a baby?
Mr. Penruthlan is NOT the bad guy?
Enid Blyton is so clever.""Oh, so that's why Mr. Penruthlan is suddenly able to speak clearly --- he put on his dentures.
There is excellent sounding food (Except the tongue, although I've never had it it still sounds gross) They are staying at Tremannon farm this time around, and suspect someone of smuggling in good on stormy nights.
Meanwhile, the Barnies who have been staying at the farm are out looking for them, and one of them might just prove to be the bad guy.I love Enid Blyton, there has never been any doubt about that.
This book was actually one of the later ones I managed to get a copy of, so it has never held the love that others in the series hold for me, but it is still an excellent book.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Five Go Down To Sea was no great shakes from the adventure-mystery point of view… A strange light flashing in a ruined tower -late night wanderings -suspicious characters -getting locked up -escaping - AND -ultimately tying up all the loose ends.I primarily liked this book for three characters:Mrs.Penruthlan : the bustling, jolly l’il house-wife whose main aim in life was to cook and feed everyone who came under her motherly wings.
Larger than life, he was an intimidating figure.
Yan’s granddad: I liked the way Blyton gave a description of the old shepherd.
As with all Famous Five books, this is of the same trusted and successful formula. I loved these books as a child and I am delighted that my girls loved them as children too.The stories are adventures of a byegone age, yet still hold the attention of children, around the world...... they have stood the test of time well - and for a great reason.The stories are plausible, fun, adventurous and contain an excellent mix of young characters... with a little bit of everyone in each of them - something that children have obviously known for decades.
This book is set in the Cornish coast. Overall the book gave a nice English country side feel that made a real pleasent read. As an adult, most of the mysteries in themselves are not that exciting as the general feel good about the innocence of children, the enjoyment of simple joys of life and the camaraderie. The caves and secret passages were all interesting but for a regular reader of Enid Blyton they tend to become common fare.
I enjoyed the quick pace. Loved the lashings of lunches, even The Five couldn't manage snacks in between in this adventure. Poor little Jan though, I do wish the five didn't treat him so meanly, goodness knows what he did to deserve that - at least Anne gave him some sweets!
Revisiting my all time favorite childhood series - I enjoyed them as an adult too - it was like taking a break from adulthood for a few hours :-D
Not so exciting this time.
"The Famous Five decide to spend their time at a lonely and desolate farm in Cornwall suggested by Uncle Quentin and encounter Mr Penruthlan.
They hear strange stories of the long-ago wrecking business.
Is there a mystery on the way?"I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
I bought this book at a fair, antiques and old stuff lying around.
A lot of people were selling books, and this particular lady was already taking the stall down and had the books in boxes.
I needed reading material for my weekend, hadn't taken any and didn't want to use kindle, so going through her packed boxes I picked 2 famous five books.This was mildly entertaining, not as thriving and exciting as I remembered.
For children, the abrupt response towards a local smaller kid was unnecessary and, reading now, I see how this can show young minds to be unreasonably mean.
Her collection of Famous Five accompanied me through a considerable part of my childhood - her books were often picked up from the library's shelves.I have probably noticed other elements of the story at the time, than I notice them now.
At that time I really liked George because she was more boyish.
I probably did not notice before, how strongly the author emphasizes the differences between a girl and a boy, even if George wamts to be a boy...In my memory are these book a little bit longer...
Now I read it very quickly, and the story itself quickly ends.
Petualangan ke 12 Lima Sekawan!Kali ini Lima Sekawan melancong ke sebuah pedesaan kecil dengan tujuan untung bersenang-senang di luar rumah, berenang, melancong, dll. Setelah sempat berjanji tidak akan mau melakukan petualangan menegangkan Lima Sekawan harus mengingkari janjinya karena seperti biasa Lina Sekawan kembali harus berhadapan dengan petualangan yang menegangkan.Seperti biasa saya sangat menikmati tulisan Bu Enid. Saya menyukai deskripsi desa yang ditinggali Lima Sekawan, kehidupan desa yang sederhana namun menyenagkan, keindahan alam yang menyejukkan serta orang-orang yang bersahabat dan baik hati.Salam Limun Jahe!
Lashings and lashings of jolly good japes! I first read this series of books when I was a kid in the mid 70s and thought I'd have a trip down Memory Lane by re-reading this one.To tell the truth, I couldn't stop myself from thinking about the excellent Comic Strip Presents series of parodies put out by the BBC as I wound my way through its smugglers' caves and tried to get to grips with mountains and mountains of wholesome tucker.All good clean fun!
More good fare from the Famous 5. Much the same sort of stuff as in previous encounters but always fun to read. Nice to see them get it wrong with one of their conclusions towards the end - shows they are human, but of course they managed to work everything out by the end. Looking forward to the next...
One of my favourite Famous Five books, the action takes place this time on the Cornish coast. Smugglers, shipwrecks, mysterious signals, abandoned cottages, secret tunnels, "The Wrecker's Way", old grandad, barnies, the jolly farmer's wife. lashings of food...this book has everything that makes the Famous Five timeless in abundance!
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
Another great Famous 5 book. Love the way the story comes together and all's well in the end. Secret caves, smugglers, old wrecks and lashings of ginger beer with hams and cheeses and all sorts of pies. Brilliant books
I think the settings would be familiar for those who have read FF books prior to this one. But it's still a fun adventure, and I liked Clopper. :)
I absolutely adored these stories as a kid. I'm so glad they continue to be reprinted for current generations to enjoy!
Not bad.
Another fun adventure with the Barnies (traveling players) and smugglers! The Famous Five foil the bad men again.
5 arkadaşın muhteşem serüvenlerinden birisi daha. Her zaman ki gibi oldukça heyecanlıydı.
Such an easy and entertaining read!! This was my third of Enid Blyton consequtevly and still not bored...
Seems repetitive but good for young people I guess.
