https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2674.The_Wealthy_Barber
A few years ago I started taking out some whole life insurance to supplement my company's group policy, but, according to Chilton, I shouldn't have been doing that at all, for reasons that are made really clear in the book!I do, however, fundamentally disagree with his stance on mutual funds.
I think if you're a layman, you should be investing in indexed funds, no question.
This is the one major knock I have on the book.If you're in your 20s, I'd recommend picking both this up and I Will Teach You To Be Rich, which is more current and relevant to 20-somethings in the 2000s.
A must read for any friend, it approaches personal finance in a nonchalant, meaningful, practical and funny way which makes the read a breeze. I wanted to read the book for its content on personal finances, but I ended up being caught in the story and enjoying it for its storytelling.

It was first published in 1989, and is written like a "novel", except with more dialogue than any book I've ever read.Here's the set-up: 3 twenty-somethings go to a barber for financial advice.
He later describes home ownership (and paying a mortgage) as "the ultimate forced-savings program", and talks more about mortgages, but I appreciated that he wasn't like: "Buy, buy, buy!"5.
Don't spend too much on your credit cards, and save to buy something before you buy it-- don't just pay it back.
But there was some other advice in the chapter: emergency funds, disability insurance, and staying informed.
I was among the first to read and review this book for the finance section of an Ontario newspaper when it was first released back in 1989. David Chilton lived in a nearby city and was pushing hard to get reviews.I loved it because it took the dry lessons of personal finance and turned them into a parable about a barber who knew the secret to financial success.I knew the book would be a hit and said so. The rest is history.
finally got around to this one after much gentle, yet consistent urging of my father, The Wealthy Barber is a thinly veiled lesson in personal finance. aside from a few witty remarks from characters in between the barber's lectures, the book is plainly an essential guide to simply and properly managing your money. a very important read, but honestly not an engaging one. would recommend for educational purposes only, not enjoyment.
There is some very good, general information here that just about anyone can benefit from. I did, however, hate the presentation. It's all presented in a painfully cheesy conversation between a barber, 3 30-somethings in need of knowledge, and a couple of old farts who live in the barber's shop. It made me want to slap someone.Still, I must recommend the book for there was good information inside. It's fairly well rounded, providing value to just about anyone.
Such great advice on becoming financially literate AND a quick read
Quote:  “Wealth beyond your wildest dreams is possible if you follow the golden rule: Invest 10% of all you make for long-term growth. If you follow that one simple guideline, someday you’ll be a very rich man."  Synopsis:The Wealthy Barber is a financial planning book franchise by Canadian author David Chilton. The first book in the series was in the business fable genre, using the story of fictional characters to convey financial advice.My Take:Although the Wealthy Barber was originally publis
The book shows its age and financial era when discussing funds and the recommendation not to invest your savings in the stock market directly, but instead to go for the safer option of managed Mutual Funds.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and it is one of the good financials reads I come across since Rich Dad, Poor Dad and Think and Grow Rich.I will be reading the follow-up and newer edition of the author's book: The Wealthy Barber Returns and making notes this time of the golden nuggets the author shared with us.Quotes:
Chilton’s financial tips, framed within dialogue, are easily digestible and accessible, but because they are framed in dialogue, what could be summarized easily in a page takes a whole chapter.As a financial novice, I found this book quite helpful and practical, despite the often unnecessarily protracted dialogue.
As a lover of quality literature, I found this book quite horrendous.
But I won’t be so petty as to go on and on about adverbs and the jarring insertions of the author’s voice in the present tense and all that—it is, after all, a book about financial planning.The jokes are so extremely bad.
As a book given to me as a gift by my mother, I had relatively low expectations. That was a good thing. This book is essentially a financial self-help book thinly veiled in multiple conversations multiple people have with, you guessed it, a wealthy barber. The financial advice is, in fact, useful. However, the content is relatively dry and could be shared with the reader much more efficiently through a different means than this book. Saying that, I'd recommend this book to those who need some common-sense financial advice but are scared to expand their reading past novels.
The Wealthy Barber is not your everyday boring financial planning book which instructs you on how to budget and predict the stock market.
The wealthy barber does not even cover those topics as viable paths to financial prosperity as everyone who has tried a personal budget knows how hard it is to follow.
The main point of the Wealthy Barber is to pay yourself first by saving 10% of all income for long term growth.
If your mutual fund or other investment begins to tank, don’t worry, markets always go up in the long run.
The human element seems to be what separates a great finance book from a typical pressing of finance information.The story revolves around a young naive man Tom who goes to his local barber known for the best money tips and haircut snips.
The book walks the lie of finance knowledge that is prudent and safe with ideas about saving 10% long term, dollar cost averaging and distinguishing needs and wants.
It's the type of personal finance book 95% of us need to read multiple times in our lives, and just stay that solid course.Finance gets trickier if you let it.
The 'My Dinner with Andre' of Canada-specific financial planning
I reread it since I am recommending it to a couple of younger fellows; thus, I am needing to be up to speed on it for our future discussions.
While he advocates not using credit cards, their convenience combined with self discipline makes them a useful tool.
Of course, they are like fire, a useful tool but a fearful master.
Some places are actually funny when it comes to the banter between the three seeking information, the barber, and the three fellows who hang out in the shop.
I recommend it to all, but for folks in their 20's and 30's, it is prime reading material.
I was kind of "meh" when this book won our book club vote, but I'm actually really glad I read it.
Even though my first thoughts were around how chauvinistic and sexist some peoples were and how I wanted to punch them in the face, I did find that it moved very well and was entertaining in a stereotypical dubbed down, must be accessible all-American-boy way.
And the writing is...like...SO terrible.But that's not really the point here.
I'm giving it points because it got me thinking and moving somewhat on my own finances and that's not something I usually pay much mind to.
Like...seriously...15% return rate?
Originally published http://lifeasaninvestment.com/2014/04...It is nicely written, and with a sense of humor. The Canadian author gives it away with the title—it does not matter what you do and how much money you earn, you have the same chances of being wealthy as anybody else. Most importantly, follow your financial plan no matter what.David Chilton is not only a writer; he is also a successful investor. He can be seen making investment decisions at the Dragons’ Den Canada show (from 2012-present).On a cozy weekend evening, make a cup of warm chocolate, sit on your favorite armchair and enjoy reading and learning…
Bad jokes and good financial advice go a long way to making me enjoy a book and this had both. By now the book is probably a little dated for some of the advice but really there are important principles that are timeless, the first being that I should have started investing ten years ago. Ah well. Really this book is a nice short read and serves well as an entertaining primer to financial planning. Probably much of the advice is common knowledge and the toughest thing is making the first step to put it into practice.
Good,clean, simple financial planning to make anyone well off.
Unfortunately when I read this book about 20 years ago I did not follow all of the steps and as a result am not in the secure financial position I could be.
But, it's never to late to start doing things better.
The book has 12 very simple basis ideas, the most important being, pay yourself 10% of every paycheck first and invest in long term savings, have the proper and right amount of life insurance, have an up to date will, maximize your RRSP, and paying off debts is teh best investment!
this original is probably outdated now but it still has quite a lot to offer.
It is one of, if not the very first book that opened my eyes to the world of investments, esp.
real estate.
It was instrumental in helping me purchase my first home at 23, then my first investment property at 25.
There are a lot of books in finance, but this one was my first real teacher.
I talked about it a lot with my clients and when I spoke at seminars.A great book to have your young adult kids read, if you can get them to.
Most of it is just common sense as the title would have you believe. A couple tips I didn't already know about. It seemed like it would be a great book for someone who hasn't grown up financially educated by their parents. For me almost all of it was stuff I was either doing or at least new I should do.Overall it is a very easy read that gives a full frame work for personal finance. A little dated but still useful and largely valid.
This personal finance book is presented in a non-threatening and easy to understand manner. The main character's father guides him to a local barber who has done well financially by following sound financial principles. The barber dispenses his knowledge to some pupils during weekly meetings in his barbershop. I highly recommend this book, especially to those new to the subject of personal finance.
Although I read the revised edition before reading this one. I still enjoyed it immensely. The crux of it is saving about 10% and another 10% on retirement. He explains well the beauty of compound interest and the importance of investing on equity mutual funds... This is the book that really opened my eyes to investment. The chapter on a a dollar saved, two dollar earned was eye opening. The tips on life insurance are worthwhile.
A little outdated in some ways, and the writing is cringeworthy at times (for the love of all that is good and holy - put the thesaurus away and just say "says" from time to time!), but the advice is sound and easy to understand. I am glad I read it and will likely skim it again to make sure I got some things right. Would be a very good gift (there's an updated version, I believe) for people in college/just finishing, newlyweds...
Ce livre devrait être une lecture obligatoire aux élèves du secondaire! Tout est expliqué très simplement et si tout le monde suivait les simples règles d'investissement décrites dans ce livre, personne n'aurait aucun problème à sa retraite. Personne!Mon seul regret : ne pas avoir lu ce livre dans ma jeune vingtaine (ou avant)! Chacun de mes enfants vont avoir une copie de ce livre, c'est une promesse!
This is a great introduction to personal finance. Though not completely up-to-date (the book was written 20 years ago), most of the information is still pretty relevant. The book is laid out in seven easy-to-read lessons, all as dialogue between a barber and his clientele.I recommend everyone in their 20s pick up this book.
I was disappointed on re-reading this book. I really liked this book 20 or so years ago. It’s sort of a retelling of the richest man in Babylon. Maybe this book would still work as a simple little introduction to personal finance, but I found too much of it outdated, simplistic, and some of it just wrong.
This is good if you like the story book setting. Sometimes, though you would just like the narrator to get to the point. Overall this is a good stepping stone for financial advice, but works best if you're not in debt. It also takes the pressure off that many folks may feel about "having" to make big bucks in order to be financially grounded.
Once you get past the corny dad jokes it's actually pretty helpful. I read it because my dad kept recommending it to me and I have to say I'm glad I read it. Still don't understand a bunch of stuff but it inspired me to look into various savings accounts with compound interest. I think that's a start.
Transformative. It's the best word I can come up with. Mr. Chilton promulgates a plan, without shilling for certain brands' funds, and best of all, he takes the very complex and makes it very simple. He teaches you using plain English.I now have five co-workers following his advise, and I can't think of a higher compliment.
