https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91760.The_Diary_of_Frida_Kahlo
i took my time with frida's diary:one. because the emotion she reached inside of mefelt raw and sometimes heavybuttwo. because i didn't want to come to its finish.i'm slightly obsessed (proudly) with this womanand find myself moved in ways that enrich my soulevery time i spend time with frida.her love for lifeher passion for love and connectionher desires for both the men and womenin her lifestrike me in such a familiar waythat guide me in embracing my true nature.her vulnerability created passion!equaling a force few knew how to handle. she's a sisterfrom another time.
Who would say that stainslive and help one to live?Ink, blood, odor. Oh, Frida, Frida, Frida. What else is there to say? This is beautiful.There is nothing more precious than laughterand scorn - It is strength to laughand lose oneself. to be  cruel andlight.Tragedy is the mostridiculous thing "man" hasbut I'm sure that animals suffer,and yet they do not exhibit their "pain"in "theatres" neither open nor"closed" (their "homes").and their pain is more realthan any imagethat any man can"perform" x
I put it down to the handwriting lessons received as a child: we were given cheap jotter books and very inky fineline pens that would clumsily splodge, stain and seep through pages if you lingered on a letter or full stop.
So though I write hard enough to engrave the next page, I’m likely to start the same letter six times if I make a mistake or write a single word wrong.
So thanks to those brutal handwriting lessons, what bothers me most (apart from having to keep mistakes on the page) is seeing the ink from a previous entry bleed on the fresh side.
Originally not intended to be published, through Kahlo's diary you get inside her head in the form of letters, notes, automatic writing and sketches.
Frida's writings and pictures together create a beautiful chaos, that helps you get a little bit closer to her art.
If you already admire Frida's art, this is a must read and a real gem of a companion piece to her paintings.I don't paint dreams or nightmares, I paint my own reality.The book itself had a little problematic layout, because the explanations and translations are all stuffed into the back of the book, forcing you to flip through the pages.
I thought it was going to be a basic translated version of Frida Kahlo's diary with a brief introduction of some kind about her and her life, It isn't.
Then you have the diary which is in full colour and detail (the only good bit of this book) But the way the translation have been done is really awkward in as much as all the translation are grouped together at the end of the book with the commenttary of the person who did the introduction.
The book disects every part of Frida Kahlo leaving no space for you have have your own thoughts, feelings or discoveries.
I can kind of understand why, for example, all of the translation is at the end of the book, so as not to interrupt the flow of the diary itself, but it could have been done more elegantly so that it's not so hard to find the translation of the page you're looking at.
A better option might have been to have all the commentary and translation in a separate volume, and/or make some kind of online component to go with the diary now that we live in the future.
Really, anything would be better than how it's laid out now.
in prep for my trip to Casa Azul....and because Frida is...Frida.
Lendo este diário pude entender porque alguns são relutantes em aceitar Kahlo como ícone feminista, 
"ALAS ROTAS" (p.156)
"PAREJA EXTRAÑA DEL PAÍS DEL PUNTO Y LA RAYA"Halagos sobran para este magnifico libro, es toda una o
Frida Kahlo's diary is worth the read. It contains sketches that thematically connect to her paintings that are far more well know, however the texture and raw quality is quite different. You see her process and even for an artist who was so revealing in her work, there is more to see here! Reading this diary in the context of todays art world, where a sketch can be considered fine art, shows how timeless and relevant her work is.
امرأة حملت لواء الأنوثة بقدم مشلولة وحاجبين كثيفين كأنهما شاربان فوق عينيها وجسد ممدد على السرير، فن في لوحات من حبر ودم على قطعة قماش، فمرة ترسم الحب ومرة ترسم الكره والألم فيما يسمى بعبقرية نقل الواقع بعيدا عن الرسم الحالم. تجربة إنسانية مؤلمة لكنها تحولت إلى فن
This book is amazing. The haunting images alone are worth it (It's Kahlo, for god's sake!) and there's an English language translation of the text included.
I don't know why, but Frida didn't attracted me too enough as an artist. I'd prefer Diego Rivera's work.
Although she begins this diary at the age of 37-ish, (the first date of entry is not clear) ~ it seems that because of everything that has suddenly happened physically & emotionally to her, that now ~~she will document things.And, of course, Frida will journal in her own artistic way.Some may find it difficult to read, because of the language barrier, because of her honesty in her pain & rage & beeeecause the love that did not die & because we see & feel the sadness that this love wrought upon her.
The artwork and her loopy, free, slightly messy handwriting makes this book truly inspiring. Essays and commentary are included with the translations.
- أجمل إيجاز وصف هذه المرأة "كقنبلة" كما يصفها بريتون ، وسورياليتها في رائعة مقدمة هذه اليوميات التي كتبها الروائي المكسيكي "كارلوس فوينتيس" ..وفي وصفه ل فريدا كالو ،قال فوينتيس :فريديتا " الفراشة الهشة، الحساسة، التي كررت بدون توقف دورتها من اليرقة إلى الشرنقة .
جنية الليل المكسيكية التي تفتح أجنحتها اللامعة فقط لتوخز مرة ثم مرة أخرى ، وهي مقاومة للالم بدهشة، حتى يصبح الاسم المتعارف عليه للالم ولنهاية الألم هو الموت ."- " الألم، الجسد، المدينة، البلد، كالو، فريدا، فن فريدا كالو ."لا أجد في نفسي القدرة على إضافة حرف واحد على وصف فوينتيس .*أما ما يخص الكتاب فكان سيء التنظيم واتمنى إعادة طباعته للاستمتاع أكثر بالكتاب .
ترجمة جميلة وطبعة راقية و جهد رائع بتضمين الكتاب بمجموعة ملونة من اللوحات ،لكن سوء التنظيم للكتاب كان شيء مزعج بالمرة .
Dice Sarah M. Lowe en su ensayo introductorio: "Leer en el Diario de Frida Kahlo es, incuestionablemente, un acto de transgresión, con cierto matiz voyeurista. Este documento constituye la expresión más íntima de los sentimientos de la artista, cuya intención no fue publicarlo".Al igual que con las cartas de Juan Rulfo, nunca podría calificar el Diario de Frida Kahlo, sus páginas llenas de vida y dolor cuentan lo que ya conocemos (y más) de Frida, pero es como si ella te lo susurrara al oído.
There are no words to describe how important this book is to me. I regularly visit the pages of Frida Kahlo's diary for inspiration and deeper insight into my own life and perspective of the world. Some pages are heartbreaking and some are joyous, but it is all TRUE and that's the biggest teaching, here. I also learned to embrace the bleeding through of pages, when working in journals. "Messy" is inspiring and beautiful!
تخوض تجربة ٣٢ عملية جراحية بعد ذلك حتى يوم مماتها بعد معاناة مع الآلام لتسعة وعشرين عاماً متواصلة كانت تقضي بعض فتراتها في السرير لمدة شهور أو مُقعده على كرسي متحرك ؟تترجم فريدا في يومياتها ولوحاتها السريالية في هذا الكتاب الألم الجسدي إلى الفن.
الألم كطريقة تُقدّمها فريدا للإتجاه إلى أنفسنا، وهذا مايعطي لألمها الخاص بُعداً مشتركاً لكل من يقرأ يومياتها أو لوحاتها الفنيّة.
بالإضافة إلى وجود بعض المحاولات الناقصة لشرح بعض اللوحات الفنية والأفكار الموجودة فيها، والتي في اعتقادي تشتت فهم القارئ لها بدلاً الإستفادة منها، فمادامت الأعمال الفنية موجود، فترك مهمة استيعابها وتذوّقها للقارئ سيكون أجدر وأكثر نفعاً.فيفا لا فيدا !
Croatian writer Slavenka Drakulic recently also wrote one documentary novel about famous Mexican painter called: "Frida Kahlo or about pain".
As you can see, the pain and suffering of that great artist after traffic accident and high artistic fruits of her struggle for life, through so many hospital operations, serves as inspiration for many writers.
The diary contains words and scenes from Frida's passionate relationship of love and hate with her huband, celebrated painter as well, her thoughts, poems and especially Frida's dreams which were well-known source of inspiration for her surrealist paintings.
I devoured this book and will continue to devour it for years to come.
The faithful reproductions of the pages from Kahlo's diary--an art journal before there was such a trend!--through to bled-through inks and coffee stains are PHENOMENAL.
The back end of the book contains translations of the pages--which is a great aid for non-Spanish readers--and contextualizations, which, em, I don't know--in some cases, I could have done without.Regardless: I adore this book.
The person who gifted it to me has my eternal gratitude.
If you are looking for a gift for a Kahlo lover, this is perfect.And if you love Kahlo...
Q difícil es calificar algo tan intimo como un diario que demuestra de manera cruda los sentimientos q enfrentaba Frida Kahlo durante esta etapa de su vida por medio de sus pinturas, trazos y palabras.
La introducción de Carlos Fuentes es preciosa, pero los ensayos son mas de lo mismo, fueron pocas hojas pero para mi fueron sufrimiento.Y como punto extra la edición es maravillosa.
Hay q recordar q este libro no es una biografía pero si un complemento que ayuda a entender a una de las mujeres mas importantes en la historia cultural de México.
"Pies para qué los quiero si tengo alas pa' volar "
**4.5 stars**I'm not going to write a full review on this, as it is a non-fiction text and I want to respect the artist and her feelings. However, I *freaking* loved this book and am so proud to have it in my collection. I knocked it down half a star because I personally felt there was too much outside commentary and not enough was left to speak for itself. Still, SUCH a good book and would highly recommend to anyone!
It only shows the later years of her death, and you can see in her writing that her health is beginning to fail. You get some of her art that isn't out for public viewing (museums, etc.), which is pretty cool. It was a lot at times, and I had to put it away for a bit. I enjoyed the analysis at the end. Helped when I couldn't make out a few things.
frida’s diary is incredible. her use of colors and the tales she tells are captivating. her life was incredibly hard and i think her love for diego rivera made everything worse. the analysis made by sarah is good and accurate. fuentes’ introduction is AMAZING. love that man. overall a good book.
Mi eterno pendiente."Pero cómo le explico mi necesidad enorme de ternura! Mi soledad de años. Mi estructura inconforme por inarmónica, por inadaptada. Yo creo que es mejor irse, irse y no escaparse. Que todo pase en un instante. Ojalá".
Content was absolutely worthy of five stars but the formatting of this collection was difficult to follow. I wish they had done side by side translations throughout the journal rather than miniature translations at the back of the book.
Oh, MAN, what is not to love about Frida Kahlo's crazy life and art? Her diaries are gorgeous, startling, maddening, lyrical, lusty, full of pain and deep joy. Whenever I feel confined, I open these diaries and feell....freer somehow...able to keep going as an artist.
This is Frida Kahlo's journal, complete with illustrations. Terrific book - highly recommend!
Haunting and brilliant - much like the artist herself. I feel as though I've seen almost too much. An intimate portrait indeed.
