https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/463297.My_Journey_to_Lhasa
The reason I couldn't find it first of all is that my book is in French.It's just called "Le Tibet d'Alexandria David-Néel".
I had spent a year in France and at the time my spoken French was dreadful.
I did have problems reading it at the time.Imagine a woman all alone, an explorer, who had tried to disguise herself as a Tibetan (very difficult looking at the photos) and travels to Sikkim in Tibet in 1913 and then on to Lhasa.
You see the author sitting with the women in the market and then there are fabulous photos of Lhasa itself.
A little hard to get into at first, but what this woman did is truly amazing. And the coolest thing about it is she seems totally unfazed by having to hike through chest-deep snow and survive on butter tea for long stretches of time to reach Lhasa, not to mention being disguised as a Tibetan peasant the whole time. I've read a lot of travel books, and this woman is the real deal.
"Che tutti gli esseri siano felici".A me una boccata d'aria pura questa lettura me l'ha regalata.
Le devo gratitudine alla girovaga, orientalista, filosofa, scrittrice, mezza sacerdotessa, un po' maga e , quindi forse anche un po' pazza, che è arrivata a Lhasa al posto mio.
Mi ha caricata sulle spalle del suo singolare equipaggiamento, mi ha mostrato paesaggi incantati, di un luogo fantasticamente remoto, mi ha mostrato la forza della solitudine piena di ricchezza per la sua 'deliziosa libertà.Niente di troppo mistico, niente troppo vibrante come i gong percosse a ripetizione.Narrazione della felicità di se stessi e del mondo.Che ci vorrebbe tanto a tutti, mondo compreso.
This is an incredible story of the first Western woman to enter the Forbidden City known as Lhasa in Tibet.
In 1923, Alexandra David-Neel successfully met her goal, but not without a lot of planning.
Having been rasied in Paris and Brussels, Alexandra had set many lofty goals for herself and went on many adventures, but nothing could compare to entering the Forbidden City.
It would have been nearly impossible to take this journey successfully alone, considering the rugged terrain and rough weather conditions that can occur in and around Tibet.
She was an amazing woman and her name should be well known.
While there is absolutely no doubt that Alexandra David-Neel was truly an amazing woman and her trip was a great feat, I must say that this book was a bit of a disappointment. I can't imagine having endured what she did and to do so with such apparent ease and almost nonchalance. The experiences and encounters along her journey were undoubtedly exciting but somehow the writing and storytelling itself managed to lack the excitement an adventure such as this would guarantee.
Wild story of walking out of China into Tibet at age 55, around 1920. She was extraordinary and went on to write 30 books bringing Tibetan Buddhism to the West. She learned Tibetan and became a nun. The details are unbelievable and that's why some people wonder how she did it, but there is a photo of her sitting in front of the Potala, with her face covered with soot from a cooking pot so her white skin would not give her away. Foreigners were forbidden at the time.

This is the story of Alexandra David-Neel's journey to Lhasa in the 1920s when it was forbidden for a woman to visit the holy city. She had to disguise herself as a man and travel on foot through harsh terrain. She was in her 50s at the time of this amazing journey.
That was, by the way, in the time when white people in Asia traveled with tables, chairs, bread ovens and gramophones.She and her companion traveled on foot, thinly clad, living mostly on buttered tea (and from time to time stuff so horrible it would burn a hole in my Goodreads page), through snow and ice and mud.
(I wonder if the story of Mme Alexandra making fire using the technique of tumo is real).
I wonder how Mme Alexandra came to love it and yearn for it so much when it's obvious it was a horrible place.
I think I was traveling in Mexico when we read this book and I always thought how easy my new life was in comparison. I still love the book and think anyone who likes to travel should read it.
Das Geld für die Reisen beschaffte sie sich zunächst durch Auftritte mit Operngesang!
Sie lernte asiatische Sprachen, studierte die Religionen und verbrachte sogar ein Jahr als Einsiedlerin in einer tibetischen Hütte auf 4000 Metern Höhe.
Um unerkannt durch Tibet wandern zu können, muss sie sich als Pilgerin verkleiden und Gesicht und Haare schwärzen, damit man nicht die Europäerin erkennt.
Der Reisebericht ist spannend, zeichnet ein atmosphärisches Bild des alten Tibet und seiner tief religiösen Bewohner und verlangt einem echt Respekt ab: Ich weiß nicht, ob ich auf 4000 Meter hohen Gebirgspässen im Schnee nur unter einer Decke übernachten würde ...Alexandra starb erst 1969, kurz nachdem sie nochmal ihren Reisepass verlängert hatte ...
own, or maybe those who have lived long in solitude read in it their own unconscious inner feelings & mysterious foreknowledge.
it looked more like a worshipful but affable Deity, standing at the threshold of a mystic land, ready to welcome & protect the adventurous lover of Thibet.' This quote sets the tone for the book - for the inner journey as well as the outer journey.
I live in Northern India & have had friends trek in regions north of where I'm staying that have similar terrain to the descriptions in this book so I was fascinated to read her descriptions of the land & the people as it evoked the timelessness of the region.
Wow. Ce qu'a fait cette femme, il y a maintenant plusieurs dizaines d'années, est tout simplement bluffant.
En 1924, déguisée en mendiante, elle se rend à Lhassa, ville interdite aux étrangers, au départ du Yunnan.
Accompagnée d'un lama - son fils adoptif , elle parcourt incognito et avec un équipement plus que minimal les montagnes enneigées du Tibet, dormant dans des grottes, jeûnant de nombreuses fois et risquant sa vie à de multiples reprises.
Par amour pour ces montagnes himalayennes, par goût de l'aventure, mais surtout parce qu'elle est une orientaliste de terrain passionnée, et qu'elle veut transmettre à l'Occident les richesses d'un monde qui lui était à l'époque interdit.

Well, it took awhile but I finally finished it. The author was truly an amazing woman and I admire the life she lived and all of her explorations at a time when women didn't travel on their own into remote areas. Her writing style didn't capture me, but considering that English wasn't her first language, it was very impressive. Reading about her life on-line gives a remarkable view of her accomplishments and makes her book that much more enjoyable.
Talk about a take charge of your life kind woman. Married to a fellow that she has friendship, but no passion for.. she tells him her want to travel to Tibet's forbidden city. The account is so nitty gritty and filled with respect for the land and its people.If you have any interest in early women adventurers/explores... don't miss this.
Amazing woman. If you keep in mind the audience she was writing to (Victorian Europe), this book is wonderful. I was able to get a picture of Tibet before it was "changed". This book was important and valuable to me. And it's a great story.
I am so disappointed in this book. I thought it would be a wild and crazy adventure, but it is part the author worrying in print about being seen by Thibetans, part adventure, and half, discussion about Eastern religion. I've looked forward to reading this book for so long, I am bummed!
Would be an amazing story today but considering that she did it at the turn of the century makes it truly unbelievable.
Comment ne pas tomber littéralement admiratif devant tant de volonté...et d'esprit!
a woman traveler in lhasa. true story. wonderful. exciting events she went thru.
#22 of Outside Magazine's "Books for the Well Read Explorer"
Alexandra Davide Nele is my real life heroine, I fell in love with her when I attended a talk about her travels at the NYC Explorers Club. When I read this book I was hooked and tracked across the Himalayas from Kathmandu to Lhasa in 2001 in her honor. Must read for all women explorers.
The cowmen and women of the northern solitudes are a habitual subject of mockery for the more civilized people of Lhasa."Ah!" said the merchant, laughing, and yet irritated by my continuous twaddle, "you are a true dokpa, there can be no doubt of that!" And all present ridiculed the stupid woman who knew nothing besides her cattle and the grass of the desert.
The difference here is that Alexandra David-Neel visited illegally, disguised as a Tibetan and this was in 1923!Having studied Tibetan for some years, she already knew the language and had previously lived in several temples and caves as a monk.
Die Autorin nimmt einen dann mit auf eine spannende und gefährliche Reise nach Lhasa (Tibet).Schreibstil:Das Vorwort war etwas „trocken“, wobei der Lebenslauf von David-Néel mehr als spannend ist.
Diese Frau hat so viel kraft und, wenn die Auszüge aus ihren Briefen gut übersetzt sind, einen wundervollen Sinn für Humor.
Der Ausdruck ist immer passend gewählt und bei so viel Sturheit und Verbissenheit, die die Autorin an den Tag legte, kann sich manch einer etwas abschneiden.Meine Meinung:Mich hat die Geschichte von Alexandra David-Néel mitgerissen und sehr begeistert.
Sie hat eine Welt (in meinem Kopf) erschaffen und ich fühlte mich mit ihr nach Tibet versetzt.
She had already attempted to travel to Lhasa once before and been turned back.David-Neel gives an account of their journey with much detail.
I have recently read a couple of books about modern-day pilgrimages and those had much in common with David-Neel’s trek – getting lost, eating odd food, the strangeness of road companions, and lack of obvious spirituality.
I finally got caught up in the Lhasa trek and the endlessness of the walk and the paranoia of the walkers and then the book became quite enjoyable.Just as I finished the book, I received a book on woman travelers.
In the period 1914-1916 she lived in a cave in Sikkim, near the Tibetan border, learning spirituality, together with the Tibetan monk Aphur Yongden, who became her lifelong traveling companion, and whom she would adopt later.
When the British authorities learned about this—Sikkim was then a British protectorate—Alexandra and Yongden had to leave the country, and, unable to return to Europe in the middle of World War I, they traveled to Japan.There Alexandra met Ekai Kawaguchi, who had visited Lhasa in 1901 disguised as a Chinese doctor, and this inspired her to visit Lhasa disguised as pilgrims.
This book describes the trip in 1924 with Yongden.
It wasn't what I expected - I'd always imagined it was about a spiritual young woman trekking alone through the wilderness to see the seat of the Dalai Lama out of religious fervor.
Instead, it's about a middle-aged or older woman, already well studied and well known in Buddhism, who decides to get to Lhasa just because she's not allowed to go there.
She felt it was necessary as part of her disguise, to ensure they didn't attract any attention from the authorities; but I wasn't convinced that they couldn't have bought the good will of everyone along the way rather than sponging off them.
There were some intriguing ideas posited by Ms. David-Neel, including some about the power structure and the role of China and Great Britain in that region, which seem to be completely reversed at present.
Whether Ms. David-Neel's suppositions are accurate or are coloured by her Western background, is difficult to say as this book reads not like an historical book, but rather as a travelogue.Even so, it is evocative of the remoteness of the region and the isolation of the culture due to geography.
The language is a bit difficult to get into at first, but once you get the hang of it, the rest of the books goes pretty fast.It's an excellent travelogue of David-Neel's journey into Lhasa, full of humorous little quips about how she managed to avoid detection.
This is a bit unusual for me, because I usually gravitate towards female characters, but you get the sense that Alexandra David-Neel doesn't need any help, and is going to have her way at whatever cost.
