https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47944.Empress_of_the_World
I have no idea what Nic supposedly did wrong. Hell, I over-analyze all the time! What's wrong with it? NOTHING. She was just asking a damn question, Battle! Shut your damn mouth!Sorry. Sometimes I become somewhat of an advocate for certain book characters.
As with pretty much everything I read, I found the ending to this a little unsatisfying, a little too contrived in too short a space, but the path to the ending was well worth it.
Nicola, the narrator, is a sharp, funny, observant kid, even in her own confusion about her sexuality, and Battle is both a fantastic foil and a fantastic love affair for Nicola.
The dynamics and the emotions in this one rang very true for me on all levels.It pleased me to learn, just recently, that Sara Ryan has written a second novel about Battle; while Empress of the World is Nicola's story, it was ultimately Battle that I wanted to know more about.
This book should have more exposed due to the fact that now a days teenagers have to deal with these kind of things more and more in todays life style and society which is so open and free to whatever.
But soon the connection for one other gets stronger especially with Nic and Battle who fall in love.
I fell in love with my best friend that is a girl and I would of never guessed I would ever find myself in such a very strong friendship and connection.
They sometimes conveyed interesting ideas, but they mostly felt unnecessary.But speaking of Nic's personality, it was well-rounded and believable, as was Battle's.
Moreover, Nic's infatuation with Battle at the beginning, infused with her shock at being attracted to a girl, was perfectly and accurately rendered.Another thing that was perfectly and accurately rendered was the effect that parents can have on kids - and in a book that takes place at a sleep-away summer camp, no less.
I was only bored a couple times, but I still feel like Ryan could've done better with a real plot.But as an LGBT novel, it does its job well, other than the wish-fulfillment aspects.
I mean, I'm a young adult.
So that's probably why I didn't like this as much as I may have a couple years ago.The characters were rather bland and generic but still moderately likable.
Also, pretty sure Battle Hall Davies was a precursor to John Green's "mysterious" female love interests.The dialogue flowed well and it was at least interesting enough to make me read a majority of it in one sitting.
I did like that the characters were unapologetically bisexual and no one harassed them about it.
Also, hooray for the (view spoiler)[ happy ending!
(hide spoiler)].
So not the best LGBTQ book I've read and not the worst.
I’m so tired of the typical boy girl-boy love story that is so pervasive in YA lit.Where are the teen lgbt stories?
Not the one where the hetero girl has the flamboyant, all-knowing, gay, male friend that helps her through her romantic crisis, but the one where the protagonist is experiencing their own crisis, with someone of the same sex.
I’m not saying that these stories don’t exist (Will Grayson, Will Grayson / Blue is the Warmest Colour/etc), there just aren’t enough of them.
A good coming of age story is a good story, regardless of the central characters.
It was an enjoyable read, but it didn't have much of a plot. There really wasn't a whole lot going on in this one. It was interesting and was easy to sit and read almost cover to cover, but at the end I felt like nothing was ever accomplished.There were a few story threads I was invested in which were just never followed up on or resolved. This was rather disappointing.
i really enjoyed nic as a character and have to say i could relate to her and her struggle with coming to terms with her bisexuality a lot.
I understand this book was written over a decade ago and that it tried to be realistic about its portrayal of bisexuality and the biphobia and homophobia teenage girls face but when it happens almost every page even by people nic considers her friends and they don't learn even after she corrects them?
Empress of the World celebrates adolescent romance and budding sexuality in all of its sticky, modern complexity.While studying archeology at an academic summer camp, fifteen-year-old Nicola ‘Nic’ Lancaster becomes embroiled in an on-again, off-again romance with the implausibly named Battle Hall Davies, a beautiful North Carolinian wildflower with electric green eyes, blond hair, and a rebellious streak.
Teen drama naturally unfolds as the pair struggles to find balance in their relationship.Perceptive and witty, Nic Lancaster is a likeable heroine whom the author depicts in language that's both respectful and accessible to teenage audiences.
I liked Isaac the most, if only because I got the feeling he just wanted to have a girlfriend, and it didn't matter if it was Katrina or Nic. Again, realistic.
But on the other hand, I like my novel relationships to tread a little slower.So having mused on all this as I've written my review, I believe the reason I'm rating this book four stars is because of our main character, Nic. She's just a believable person to read about.
Nic, as far as I can tell, never had a mutual crush on a girl, and she wanted to know how Battle felt.
but i believe this to be a fashion statement rather than a declaration of sexuality, since i have observed him making out with various angst crows.i suppose he could like boys, too, though.i of all people should remember that.Though the romance between Nic and the remarkably named Battle Hall Davies is the main plotline, Ryan spends a lot of time on an ensemble of new friends, their friendships and romances and individual character growth, classes and picnics and dances.
It reminds me a bit of Maureen Johnson's The Bermudez Triangle, another very funny book which mostly takes place over a summer and involves female friendship, female romance, and the complexity of sexual identity.
Well in this book Nicola's life stops to revolve round one special summer that eventually will change her life but she doesn't know it yet.
All ingredients are there to convey the immediateness, the voracity and the vastness of that single one moment in time...of that one summer which we all, teen or not can some way or another relate to.What I think this book lacks is a more detailed insight of the characters involved, a more refined story telling techniques, a maturer way of writing a book....which however as teenagers or young adults few of us had!
rating: 3/5 The plot reads basically like so many teen books/movies these days.
This is where Nicola meets Battle and a friendship develops that leads her to question her sexuality and her life.Nicola is funny and witty as we enter her mind and navigate through finding her academic interests and romantic feelings for Battle.
However, the plot is composed of typical teenage girl drama and is very simplistic, even for a YA novel, and so is the character development.
I couldn't connect emotionally with the characters.At the same time, I would recommend this to younger teens looking for a lesbian romance or struggling with their sexual orientation.
so far i like it -- i was inspired after having read  Bloom to try more YA, especially if they have good queer subplots or storylines.
but all i found at first were the uber-boy ones, like  Rainbow High.
this feels more like a smart kid South of Nowhere so far.now that i'm done: i liked it okay -- a nice unfolding of the story and teenage angst, a lot of kids who sounded like actual people and not marketing demographics.
the end was kind of abrupt and overall just ended up feeling like a "one time at smart kids camp we all grew and changed and know ourselves better," which is fine, really, but pretty low key.
You definitely need to read them both!Nicola is one of those girls who spends her time over-analysing things in her head and isn't very sociable, she goes to the Siegel Institute Program for Gifted Youth for the summer to confirm her lifelong dream of being an archeologyst.
There is Katrina the crazy computer girl who has the best personality ever, Isaac the shy nice guy who is attracted to Katrina, the annoying Kevin (like Nicola, I found him utterly annoying, so there, last time I will mention his existence) and then there is Battle.
The twist is that two girls are the love interests, which is a welcome change.Nicola is a great main character, I find her very relatable and believable because I feel like a lot of her struggles mirror those that teenagers face in real life, and therefore making a connection with her was very easy.
They were a great group of characters to read about and I like that over time they changed or evolved, even if only a little bit.The author's approach to sexuality was well done, with Nicola's struggles and internal dialogue being extremely believable and realistic, and avoiding some of the stereotypical LGBTQ tropes I've come across in other books.
The plot moves really quick (a little too quick for me) but at the right pace for student readers who are likely to become board.I read this book in one night & didn't really put it down!
Yikes...who wants to get ditched for a guy?!?While the memory can be a bit bothersome, this book helps to make light of it, see the error of your ways, laugh and yourself, and laugh at the notion of binary sexuality at all.Great read for multicultural lit or other middle school - early high school readers!
As a lesbian, I like being able to relate to characters but this book just frustrated me.
People are always so fast to put labels on things, and this book was not an exception.
It seemed most of the time was spent wondering whether Nic was straight or a lesbian.
She liked Battle, she was a lesbian.
She liked Issac, she was straight.
It's nice to see LGBT fiction where things just are and people don't push the notion that one must fit into a category.People are fluid, why must everyone be categorized?/end rant
My favorite book ever! (So far, that is.)As someone who would like to eventually study sexuality & gender identity, this was one of my first literary forays into the world of queer-&-questioning youth, which interest me particularly, as I am one myself.Ryan's writing, especially her character description & development, is so good that I immediately picked up many of protagonist Nic's mannerisms & qualities, which I can see in myself still to this day.All in all this is a beautiful story (& much better than its sequel, Rules For Hearts!).
What can I say, I actually really liked this young adult book. This book in particular, because it's a coming of age lesbian story.If I had even a clue about this book when I was a pre-teen I wouldn't have been so confused growing up. Well maybe, I'd still be confused but atleast I'd have something other to read than Sweet Valley High.I wouldn't be suprised if this book turned into a movie. hmmm, now there's an idea . . . . I better get that screeplay going.
Well written, and a great love story :)
I could not for one second buy how fast she moved after starting out at "not even attracted to girls," and I came in specifically hoping this book would help me understand how the whole strange "I thought I was straight, but suddenly, This One Girl!" phenomenon works.
The best thing about this book is the edition I read, which was published in 2012 and includes DVD-extra-esque goodies such as an intro from David Levithan about how much pop culture/representation has changed since 2001, a couple of graphic art stories about the characters, and an interview with Ryan that includes reference to this book's sequel.
Plot Summary A girl named Nicola, or Nic, went to a summer school camp for the summer.
Her closest friend was named Battle.
She tries to do everything to get Battle back, and Nicś friend, Katrina, gets them to talk things out.
Battle and Nic sort everything out with their relationship, but by then the camp has come to an end.
She opened up to her friends Katrina and Battle.
She tries to get with multiple teachers and smokes in the dorm rooms by the end of the book.
She used to be the girl her parents wanted her to be, a girl with long blonde hair that was ¨perfect¨.
So if you are one of those people who don’t want to read this because of the sexuality of the characters, just read it and you’ll find an amazing story about self – discovery.So after I got over the humiliation/embarrassment of my younger self I quickly devoured Empress of the World, it’s just over 200 pages which just flies by.
I definitely think there need to be more books with LGBT characters so that maybe what I had when I was younger wouldn’t be so common.So if you love good, realistic and relatable contemporaries that will make you laugh, cry and leave you feeling optimistic than Empress of the World is for you.
Empress of the World was written at a time when female/female romances usually ended in death and was bold enough to present a realistic romantic fling between two teenage girls.However, reading this novel 15 years later, it's not fantastic.
It was nice that most of her friends were supportive of her, even if some could have picked their words more carefully.However, the book's content was a bit lacking.
Battle just reacted really badly to them and her immediate rebound fling with Kevin seemed a little too cruel.All in all, it wasn't bad for a quick read but I don't rate it anywhere near as highly as the likes of The Miseducation of Cameron Post.
Which already makes this an uber cool book because that's exactly where it takes place.Nicola ends up at Siegal Institute's Gifted program over the summer to explore her interest in archeology.
(But I probably led you to the the unexpected part, huh?) Nicola and Battle end up realizing that they are into each other more than friends.
I loved how Nicola questions her feelings toward Battle and it wasn't just a quick "oh yeah, I'm into her" realization.
She has this moment where she thinks back to who else she's liked, realizes that it's been both boys and girls, and viola we have an ALMOST bisexual character in YA lit.
At the time I found myself really enjoying this book and it continued to bring me back to other YA novels with LGBT themes.
The last one I happened to pick up to put back in my closet was Empress of the World.
Instead of putting it back I sat down and began to read it.Once again I really liked the idea of Nic and Battle.
Empress of the World is a short read- it doesn't take long to finish, it's simple, and I am not too sure of how well the characters will stick with you.
Empress of the World was a wonderful, heartwarming story about a girl falling in love.The book is told from the perspective of Nicola Lancaster.
She meets Isaac, Katrina, Kevin - and Battle.
But Nicola discovers she might be falling in love with ...
She quickly opens up to her new friends, mostly Isaac and Katrina and of course Battle.
When Nicola first realizes that she might be falling in love with Battle ...
It was tough to like her sometimes because of her behaviour toward Nicola.All in all I think Empress of the World is a beautiful story about self-discovery, friendship and falling in love.
I found that the writing was done well and the actual layout and idea of the book was fine and didn’t discourage me as much as the actual plot or exploration of the idea did.Character arrives at a camp for ‘gifted’ students (a camp that, in my opinion, needed more explanation).
I think that the specific plot points were done well; the specific scenes were nice to read and allowed for some growth.
I needed more conversations between the two main characters to allow me to recognize why they broke apart and why they all of a sudden fell back into whatever sort of relationship they had.
HFAB, Lesbian Romance, TeenNarrative POV/voice: First Person, Character, ProtagonistNarrative time: Present tenseI really enjoyed this book, the characters are interesting and well developed on the whole.
The extended edition I read however really spoiled this experience for me because it's size masked where the ending should be.
Thus as I read what I thought would be the ending, I was convinced I still had 1/3 of the novel to go, giving me a false sense of prediction.
What took up those pages were some random, time-inappropriate comics about the characters.
