https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887201.Faeries
She was (as I said above) very talented and throughout her life as she would pick up different techniques and concentrate on different subjects she would expand her "catalog" so to speak.
As I said only a few years ago she was becoming interested in more fantastic subjects.
This book I bought her not too long ago and it reminds me of her.
There may be books of better paintings but this one and a few others will as long as I'm able to manage it stay on my shelf.
And although I've read the Harry Potter series a number of times, and tend to notice which elements of myth and fairytale Rowling draws on, it wasn't until reading Froud and Lee's description of Brownies being insulted by the gift of clothes, that I made the connection between Brownies and House Elves (furthermore I was a Brownie Guide when I was about seven!).Faeries reminds me how people from not so long ago viewed the world very differently to how we do now.
This is the book that made Brian Froud famous and has yet to be surpassed.
Alan Lee's ethereal watercolors are just as breathtaking and provide a lovely counterpoint to Froud's more dramatic drawings.
Some are sharp toothed and clawed monsters that come creeping out of the shadows and muck to drag the unsuspecting to their doom.IMHO Faeries isn't a book quite suitable for adults or easily frightened children.
It is a work intended for the in-between people: young adults, serious children, and adults who have maintained some of their childhood innocence.Regardless how you look at it FAERIES is a classic.
Within these pages the history, wisdom and playfulness of faeries can be explored, and hidden within each image beauty and inspiration are found.
But whether your seeking wisdom, inspiration, or just a simplistic beauty in their existence, Fairies is a guide to the impossible made possible, the magic in wonder, and to a race of beings who, having always existed, are seen not through the eyes but through the heart and mind.Faeries, thirty years after the original, has been done up all new and golden, but there is more to this book then just a new cover.
It has become one of my most treasured possessions and I know for a fact I will come back to it many times over the years.The amazingly talented Brian Froud and Alan Lee give us a much closer and realistic look into the world of Faerie than what most people are used to from pop culture.
While this is in fact true in some cases, there is a whole world out there for you to explore when it comes to faeries...
Questo non è un libro sulle fate. Questo è un libro con le fate dentro.
Wonderful artwork, I've used it as a reference book.
After reading this, I've been able to recognize a lot of different mythical creatures in other works that I would not have otherwise.
This is the book that influenced Jim Henson to recruit Froud's help with the movie The Dark Crystal.
I didn't realize until very recently that Alan Lee worked on this book as well.
Alan Lee was one of the artists that Peter Jackson recruited to design sets for The Lord of the Rings movies.
I have been in love with Brian Froud from his collaboration with Alan Lee. I spent long hours pouring over his book, and saw the clear influence (excitedly) on the movie Labyrinth, one of my all-time faves, along with Outside Over There.
I'm grateful to this because at a young age I saw the interconnectivity of books and other creative endeavors because of it.
My work is more fantastical but I think a real argument could be made of the influence on my faerie Babies (can be seen on my Facebook page as well in my CafePress store Imagyne).If you love art, faeries, illustration, this is a great book to have, let alone experience.
Found this book again today while my mother was clearing out stuff.
My dad gave it to me when I was a child, and I'm absolutely delighted to have found it again because a lot of things stayed with me.
This book both enchanted and terrified me.
The art is gorgeous.
The lore is fairly detailed.
The writing style is easier to get into now that I'm an adult.
I think this is one of those books where I'd keep for life.
I don't think I'd ever have any children (definitely not biologically), but if I do, I'll pass this one to them too.
As a believer in the world of the Fae and Biti Foki I am so thankful for Brian and Wendy Froud. They pick up where my imagination leaves off and I have a huge imagination. They do not sugar coat the elemental realm; you get the light and dark side, as it should be. If you want to graduate from Tinkerbell to the meat and potatoes of the fae folk I suggest you become a Froud follower and fan.Denice GarrouAuthor of Dragonhorse and the Seeker of the Forgotten Knowledge
"Die vielen kleinen Ärgernisse des Alltags werden selbstverständlich durch diverse Plagegeister verursacht. Bei verfilztem Menschenhaar und undurchdringlich verwirrten Pferdemähnen spricht man zutreffend auch von Elfenknoten."Jetzt weiß ich endlich, was morgens mit meinen paar Haaren los ist:
I think I skimmed this book more than read it when my sister gave it to me when I was a kid, but the illustrations were terrific and I copied a lot of them in the afternoons after school when I first started to draw. I thought I had lost it but found it the other day, battered but still living.
I never knew there were so many different names for faeries. This book is comprised of legends and folklore. The illustrations reminded me of something but I couldn't put my finger on it till I read some of the other reviews of this book. They mentioned that Brian Froud worked on The Dark Crystal, and that is when I knew why they looked so familiar.Fairies can turn on you at any moment, and they like to play jokes on human folks. So beware.
Whilst the other book I've read like this (Goblins!) might have been rather child-orientated and lack-lustre, this one definitely isn't. It has beautiful drawings that make me want to punch everyone around me for being so good, and the information is genuine folklore fact (if such a thing exists).
No artist I know of reveals the personality of individual faeries while expressing his personal style so clearly as Brian Froud. He renders each detail with care and love; his devotion to his subjects shines through.
The first time I saw the beautiful illustrations in this book, it was like the fairy world finally came alive. Brian Froud captured both the light and darkness of the magical and mysterious fey world.
Putting this in no-fiction because it is a great source on these fantastic creatures & the artwork is wonderful. It's worth buying just to look at the pictures.
This is kind of the classic book that really started the whole fantsy art genre.
You can really see the affection that he has for his subjects and the paintings have a certain rawness to them that later paintings do not have.
I'm not saying his later work is bad mind you, just much more polished.
This book gives you a bit of a look at an artists' work at the start of fully accepting his muse as it were.Very beautiful and well worth the money.
This is a beautiful book! The artwork is exceptional and I could spend hours looking at the drawings. It is the definitave book on Faeries - all of the different types are named and defined as well as the different flowers and trees that are important to faerie lore.There are folk tales listed, poetry written about them, and notes from other author's stories. This is a must own volume for anyone interested in the subject.
This is a delightful book with amazing illustrations and explanations about Faeries. I enjoyed reading about all the different types of Faerie. Some I had heard of before like Brownies and Boggarts, and there were others that I had never heard of and found very interesting. It is a very readable book and some of the illustrations will take you breath away. It includes information gathered from some earlier works by other authors too.
This is still my favorite of all of Brian Froud's works. The artwork is amazing but I absolutely love the literary end of this book as well. I remember reading it for the first time in high school, when I was a freshman and I was fascinated with the names and the stories and the pictures. This book is amazing. I think it would appeal to children and adults alike.
What a world they've created, these two fantasy geniuses... I read for the art more than anything~ this is the combined effort of two of my favorite and most admired illustrators!! Each page is inspiring, and so beautiful.
This is one of Brian Froud’s older book’s all done in black and white giving you that sketch pad feel. They are lovely pictures just the same. You can feel him grow as an artist if you collect his work as I have. I am a great lover of his work, he is an amazing artist.
I believe that every story I've ever read about fairies, whether an epic fantasy or a modern urban one, has ties to the knowledge contained in this book. It's an indispensable source and an exquisitely interesting read! The watercolor art and sketches are phenomenal!
I love the art of Brian Froud, he's one of my favourite artists, and his wife, Wendy, well... She has created the most beautiful dolls that I've ever seem!. This is a wonderful masterpiece. I've read it a lot of times and I never get tired of it!.
This book is fantastic. It’s kind of a history, kind of an encyclopedia, kind of a story time session with a local bard. It’s a magical and inspiring book, and I love it.
A must-read if you like folklore, mythology, and of course, faeries.
Amazing. Amazing. Amazing. Practically another world (or even view) within our own world!

The authors of this book have clearly done their research into the fey world, and their research into the myths of the Celts and Norse as well as classical Greco-Roman mythology concerning these creatures is of the kind that clearly enriches the writing of fantasy writers like J.K. Rowling as well as those who create role playing games after the fashion of Dungeons & Dragons.
Those who read this book will be able to see how these fairy creatures have been used in other fictional portrayals, although for whatever reason the authors do not draw attention to the close connection between their writing and research and the world of Harry Potter, possibly because of concerns about lawsuits or a disbelief that the HP fanbase would be interested in a more extensive examination of obscure myths.
