https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205474.Heaven_s_My_Destination
The novel might be said to be picaresque and there is a touch of the tilting at windmills about it (Brush is only a very little like Don Quixote and there is no Sancho Panza).Brush is a travelling textbook salesman, who has his own particular brand of Christianity, which he tries to share.
Brush has developed his own particular philosophy by borrowing lots of different elements of belief.The novel takes place over a year (age 23 to 24 for Brush).
The point of the book becomes more obvious when you realise the comparitor for the book is Bunyan's Pilgrim Progress and Christian's journey.
A quick read (I mislaid my copy for a long while).
Parts were funny and parts were exasperating.
I'm not exactly sure what it is Wilder was trying to say about this particular brand of evangelicalism.
His ethics seem to rile people no end and he is often arrested for the situations which arise from this conflict.
On the whole he seems to be portrayed sympathetically and yet it is clear that most people think he is some sort of lunatic.
I am left, really, not knowing quite what to think.
Somewhat of a curate's egg, perhaps, or maybe it requires a re-read.
Wilder, Thornton. HEAVEN’S MY DESTINIATION. (1935). ****. This is a different kind of novel for Wilder. Set in Depression America, it chronicles the travels of it’s traveling salesman hero. On meeting anyone, our hero always provides the necessary information about himself. For example, when he visits a summer camp for young students, one of the women there approaches him: “What’s your name?” she asked. “George arvin Brush. I was born in Michigan. I’m a traveling salesman in school books. I came
For example, when he visits a summer camp for young students, one of the women there approaches him:	“What’s your name?” she asked.
I’ve had to do that kind of work all my life.”George is a delusional idealist.
George doesn’t smoke or drink or chase women.
He doesn’t believe in banks; he believes that they foster fear in the people who use them to store up their money “for a rainy day.” He is a Pacifist, though he isn’t afraid to defend himself.
He has this strange belief that women should be pure and aspire only to becoming good wives and raising families.
4 1/2 stars.
More so than any author I know, Wilder has the ability to find the universal in the specific, the humor in the sadness, and the sadness in the humor.
This book about the birth, death, and resurrection of one man's religious convictions contains some of the greatest laughs I've ever encountered in literature and some truly painful pathos (Although, no pathos is the world of Wilder could ever top Esteban's experiences in "Bridge of San Luis Rey.") What's so amazing is how fair Wilder is to his characters and his diligent patience in letting each of the cartoons become three-dimensional human beings.
It was a surprise AND a pleasurejust to see how the majority of Americans in this bookABSOLUTELY loa
Thornton Wilder's funniest work, and one of my favorite books ever. I've read it 3 or 4 times now, and get more out of it each time. It carries a lot of personal meaning for me, and was a major influence on my own novel.
Loved it. Don Quijote meets the Bible Belt.
He manages to do good sometimes, but at other times his efforts go off the rails because he just can't understand why people don't live up to religious standards of love and charity.
He once had sex with a girl and decided that they were already married and would be together for the rest of their lives.
No doubt he is a one of that group of vivid, "religious" characters in American literature along with Arthur Dimmesdale, Elmer Gantry, Owen Muir, or Clyde Griffiths.
Wilder made fun of the hypocrisies of American society, but provides an entertaining read as well.
Candide in Kansas City.
One of the great American novels, unaccountably little-known despite the fame of its author.
It was Wilder's fourth novel and second after the wildly popular The Bridge of San Luis Rey. The hero of the story, George Brush, is an other-worldly figure whose single-minded pursuit of a philosophy that seems like pure hokum, but through his earnest devotion to its strange principles somehow seems to make sense--in an odd way.
He needs a certain strength of character to persevere in this earnest pursuit because almost all the people he meets are married to a common sense that either rejects his entreaties or runs away from him in fear and misunderstanding.The events in this very episodic novel are the epitome of what has come to be called quixotic, named after the pursuits of Cervantes' Don Quixote and his humble partner Sancho Panza.
MISUNDERSTOOD IN THE MIDWESTSay there, young man: Are you feeling Unfit for Society?
George Brush has walked down that lonely path in life himself.
George Brush is a young man sure of salvation in the next world, but woefully ill-equipped to cope in this one.
So what is it about this unusal young man which turns normal folks off at first encounter?
The country was simply not ready to welcome this sincere but persistent young man as a regular member, even though he longed for his own hearth.
But the courtroom scene was a delightful section, cleverly plotted with witty remarks--Wilder, the dramatist, in top comic form.
Wilder said about his novel's protagonist that he "is everybody when they are young", and the novel's ending is a perfect climax for the next stage of Brush's life and one that Wilder lets the reader decide for themselves.At its heart "Heaven's My Destination" is about a man who sees the world as a very ugly place, and is bound and determined to try to make the parts of it that he comes into contact with better.
Although one of the lesser known Wilder novels, Heaven's My Destination addresses some common themes in Wilder's work, including struggles with faith and the difficulty of connecting or communicating with others.
Wilder leaves it to the reader to interpret whether or not George is a critique of religious dogma, American values, or just those lone eccentrics who live their lives by impossibly-strict rules.
As with most of his other work I've read, Wilder's novel is mildly interesting, but lacking the spark and fire of his contemporaries.
For my taste it feels like GB's return to his path was too easy and that the book ended too abruptly on that count, but it's very interesting and I am eager to find out more of Thornton's hopes for this passage, and I think it's more than mollifying the marxists as is suggested in the (truly informative) introduction.
I do want to read it again, and that's usually a five star, but I think it's a curtailed work which brings up too many interesting questions that it doesn't really resolve.
Of course I see that that's partially intentional, but if you read it let me know if you think it ends too abruptly.
A very funny book about a traveling salesman named George Brush.
He meets and talks with people all along his route--gets in trouble with pretty much every person and institution he meets because of his goodness and adherence to his own principals.
He's driven by unswerving faith at all times.
Though this was published in the late 1930's--Thornton's America is pretty much the same as our America now--vain, self-righteous, materialistic, cynical.
This might not sound like the set-up for a funny or even enjoyable read, George Brush and his big-hearted openness make it all worth the time.
Thornton's dialogue is superb.

Written & set during the Great Depression, this novel features a young (22), idealistic traveling textbook salesman, who was converted to Christianity while at a Baptist college in North Dakota.
He works hard to live his faith & his ideals that are not typical of evangelicals, including pacifism & something he calls "voluntary poverty"; he has been strongly influenced by Ghandi's example.
His outspokenness & innocence repeatedly land him in trouble & earn the resentment of many of the people he tries to influence, though he doesn't display the typical evangelical arrogance.
In fact, it's even hard to tell whether the author wants us to admire him or laugh at him--or both.
It's hard to choose one or even a couple main themes in Heaven's My Destination to discuss.
The main character George Brush is America...America at a time when it was hard to be American, during the Great Depression.
Religion, morals and individuality all play major roles in the development of Brush throughout the novel to the point of almost eminent physical, social and emotional demise.
It is Brush's rebound from that demise that speaks to the importance of faith, self evaluation, self forgiveness and the choice to lack the cynicism that often destroys good in people.
I had a theory before I read "Heaven's My Destination." From the synopsis on the back cover, I was expecting an "Elmer Gantry" redux.
Alas, this is not that kind of novel.
While the protagonist, George Brush, is indeed a meticulously moral fellow, he's not that much of a Bible-thumper compared to the Rev. Gantry.
As several other reviewers point out, Brush is also heavily indebted to Gandhi for his weltanschauung but his strict opposition to alcohol, tobacco and war make him more like an idealistic social gospel-type than a "fighting fundamentalist." The novel is very episodic and I didn't find it nearly as funny as many other reviewers have.
George Brush is a great character, and I enjoyed being both as frustrated and enchanted by him as most of the people he meets during his tribulations.
His portrayal is calibrated in such a way that he is a likable fanatic.
It's a pity that after his marriage to Roberta, the story speeds up and becomes far less detailed, but I like the fact that after this big melt-down, he starts behaving in the same way all over again.
Wilder's point is that we are the way we are, and for better or worse, will carry on making the same mistakes, even after an epiphany of sorts.
Not having read Wilder thanks to the too many high school productions of "Our Tonw" each title I read by him now is a bit of a revelation. Written in the same time period, this reminds me an awful lot of a N West novel - the naive, good hearted individual brought to understand the ways of the world. Nephew and literay rexecutor Tappan Wilder and his wife seem to have a hold on the whole "Wilder industry", but his notes and added material at the end of each volume in this series is appreciated.
Set in the 30's, this book is told from one young man's point of view as he strives to live out his faith in a fallen world. It's a commentary on the value of the faith community. We're simply not meant to have to walk this journey without others to encourage, support, and correct erroneous thinking. Christians simply need the church to stay balanced and upright in the midst of confusing times and circumstances.
Definitely an interesting read. Reading it brought waves of discomfort, like watching early episodes of The Office and cringe-laughing every time Michael Scott opens his mouth. I've never read anything by Thornton Wilder before, and I loved the way he wrote this; his writing style is (unsurprisingly and probably redundantly) stunning. I liked this, and I loved the way the picaresque narrative worked in it.The ending felt rushed, but it did fit the plot well.
I love Thornton Wilder, but somehow had never gotten around to reading this book. It was thought-provoking and, unexpectedly, hilarious. George Brush ostentatiously tries to lead a good and moral life, and ends up exasperating or enraging the people around him--he is always getting beaten up, told off, or arrested. The courtroom chapter is priceless.
One of the greatest of comic American novels, and I continue to be amazed that more readers aren't familiar with it. Like Thornton Wilder's other comic works, it's also very, very serious, and it paints a very memorable and picaresque account of Depression America. It could make a swell movie, but who's around (or who's left) who could direct it?
This book should be more read than it seems to be. It's a sort of picaresque novel of a young man whose religious conversion has made him unbearable to most of those he meets, and whose conviction's and ideas can land him in either the hospital or jail. The dialog, and the book is almost entirely dialog, is funny and the characters all perfectly captured.
A lovely book, of a time and place very different from ours. The friend who introduced me to this book says it's not at all well-known; what a pity! (Also, the protagonist reminded me strongly of the late lamented Dave Carter. Anybody know if he was a fan?)
This is quite an amazing book. I am in the camp of those who view it as a masterpiece. I can't do it justice in a review. The emotional landscape is somewhere between Candide, Don Quixote and Canterbury Tales. I really liked the hero, even while he was driving me crazy.
I am in the minority, but while I found this book readable, after two years I can hardly recall the plot - except that I found the leading character quirky. Not quirky in an interesting sense but in an annoying sense. If I had him as my traveling companion I'd change my seat.
