https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28920.A_Pale_View_of_Hills
The cares and concerns of three pairs of mothers and daughters are refracted off one another.
The first two pair live near a resurgent Nagasaki sometime toward the end of the American Occupation of Japan, about 1951-52.
Here the pregnant Etsuko, who narrates, lives with her husband Jiro, in a new concrete residential building along the river.
This pair is comprised of an older Etsuko and Niki, a daughter Etsuko has had by a second English-born husband.
Moreover, Etsuko's second husband has also died.
She has lived through the American bombing of Nagasaki, but her wounds are entirely psychological.
She came to see me earlier this year, in April, when the days were still cold and drizzly.
She left after five days.
She did not mention Keiko until the second day.
I almost came.’‘I never expected you to come.’ This is another Ishiguro story (his debut) full of mystery and questions, what’s happening and what is at the heart of the matter?
Beautifully written, as I appreciate Ishiguro.
Loved reading Ishiguro again…It's the story of Etsuko, a Japanese woman, now living alone in England, dwelling on the recent suicide of her eldest daughter.
It nicely describes the two countries, how people act and react, and what life has been like for this character throughout her time in both places.The novel even does a very good job of replicating the varying syntax between English and Japanese - in the reminiscences, the dialogue does not flow as it would in English, and the translation is in some cases very literal, which makes the dialogue reflect the difference in thought patterns that speaking (and thinking) in another language requires.Then, only ten pages from the end, the pronouns change.
This refers to Etsuko/Sachiko moving her young daughter away from her life and father in Japan to England so that her daughter would have more opportunities and a better life.In the flashback, Etsuko’s father in law remarks, “Children become adults but they don’t change much.” This supports the theory that Keiko is Mariko – the daughter was troubled as a child and troubled as an adult.There is also a key scene at the end of the book when the narrator shifts from neighbor to mother of Mariko mid-paragraph.The two women’s histories are intertwined.
274. A Pale View of Hills, Kazuo IshiguroA Pale View of Hills (1982) is the first novel by Nobel Prize–winning author Kazuo Ishiguro. A Pale View of Hills is the story of Etsuko, a middle-aged Japanese woman living alone in England, and opens with discussion between Etsuko and her younger daughter, Niki, about the recent suicide of Etsuko's older daughter, Keiko.منظر پریده رنگ تپه ها - کازوئو ایشی گورو ، ادبیات ژاپن (انتشارات نیلا)ا تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: منظر
A Pale View of Hills is the story of Etsuko, a middle-aged Japanese woman living alone in England, and opens with discussion between Etsuko and her younger daughter, Niki, about the recent suicide of Etsuko's older daughter, Keiko.منظر پریده رنگ تپه‌ ها - کازوئو ایشی گورو ، ادبیات ژاپن (انتشارات نیلا)ا تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: منظر پریده رنگ تپه‌ ها؛ نویسنده: کازوئو ایشی گورو؛ مترجم: امیر امجد؛ تهران، نیلا، 1380، در 189 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1389؛ شابک: 9646900151؛ موضوع: ادبیات ژاپن (انتشارات نیلا) - سده 20 ممنظر پریده رنگ تپه ­ها، گویا نخستین اثر كازوئو ايشی­گورو باشد.
It’s a story that made me think, and it even made me re-read it when I finished.
If I’m being cryptic, it’s because I don’t want to ruin the it all for you though I do really think Ishiguro learnt from this book.
It’s the things he doesn’t say that make his writing so powerful.
And this is something he delivered with a masterful stroke in The Remains of the Day. He really grew as an artist.So I recommend this to those that like his later books and really want to see how far he has come, though I do warn you this is not executed with the same level of skill he would later wield.

My reason is that if I die soon, at least, I've already read the author's masterpiece.I think I liked Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day (4 stars) and Never Let Me Go (4 stars) that almost all of his other works seem to be mediocre.
However, I know what I feel as a reader and I am entitled to my own opinion and they are my friends and true friendship is not measured by how many books they both liked or disliked.You see, this book was Ishiguro's first and this won the 1982 Winifred Holtby Memorial Prize (that has been superseded by Ondaatje Prize).
Vor dem Eindruck ihres Todes und des Besuchs ihrer Schwester beginnt Etsuko, sich an ihre Zeit in Japan zu erinnern.Damals kam das von der Atombombe erschütterte Nachkriegs-Nagasaki wieder auf die Beine, Etsuko war schwanger, ihr japanischer Mann versuchte, seine Karriere voranzutreiben und ihr Schwiegervater war zu einem längeren Besuch da, als in ein Häuschen gegenüber die rätselhafte Sachiko mit ihrer Tochter Mariko einzog.
Etsuko freundet sich mit Sachiko an und achtet auch ein wenig auf Mariko.Von den drei Büchern, die ich bisher von Kazuo Ishiguro gelesen habe, beeindruckte mich dieses – sein Debütroman – am meisten.
On the surface, Ishiguro's characters are in control.
They have repressed their emotions and unknowingly in that attempt, prolonged the process of healing after loss.
And in this remarkable debut, we listen to one of these survivors.Etsuko's daughter hanged herself in England.
Etsuko, our leading character is somewhat in denial, but nevertheless means to develop intimacy with grief, with her old wounds.
Through her recollections, we go back to a summer in postwar Nagasaki where Etsuko has to scan her past for signs that may restore meaning in her present, solitary life.Ishiguro's prose here exuding elegance is restrained, effective.
My first Ishiguro. This is such a quaint and quiet novel. Inane to the point of enjoyability. I look forward to more monotony.
A Pale View of Hills "Niki, the name we finally gave my younger daughter, is not an abbreviation; it was a compromise I reached with her father. For paradoxically it was he who wanted to give her a Japanese name, and I — perhaps out of some selfish desire not to be reminded of the past — insisted on an English one." Etsuko doesn't like to talk or even think about her past, the time of world war 2, when she was in Nagasaki. It is the central theme of the book having to deal with gloomy and dark p
Etsuko doesn't like to talk or even think about her past, the time of world war 2, when she was in Nagasaki.
There is that whole generation gap thing - but I guess nothing widens that gap like war, from a generation of old ways (father-in-law) to a generation lost to war (Etsuko and Sachiko) to the generation that was born in or around war times (Keiko)tohe generation that is alien to their parents' sufferings (Nikki).
Kasuo Ishiguro bilindiği üzere Japon kökenli olmasına rağmen; İngilizce yazan, İngiltere'de yaşayan ve İngiliz vatandaşı olarak hayatını sürdüren bir yazar.
Ancak İngiltere'nin, malum tarihi politikalarından dolayı, eskiden beri sahip olduğu çok İngiliz olmayan gayrikökenli yazarları mevcut.
Bu yazarlarda ilginç bir şekilde, İngiltere'de başarılı olma yolunun, farklılığını kullanmak bundan beslenmek olduğunu düşünüyor sanırım.
Dünya Savaşı sonrası Nagazaki'de yaşamış; İngiltere'de ilk eşinden olan çocuğu Keiko'yu intiharla kaybetmiş bir annenin; geçmişe dönük yolculuklarıyla, çocukları ve hayatla kurduğu ilişkiden bahsediyor.Böyle uzaktan baktığımızda konu çok zengin.
Savaş sonrası değişimi Japon yazarlar eserlerine çok farklı ve özgün şekillerde eserlerine yedirmişken, İngiltere'de büyümüş birisi için fazla kesin hüküm verirci gibi geldi.
Interesting from a historical point of view, this novel is set in 1951/2 at the end of the American occupation of Japan post WWII.
Its main point is, I think, to show how times change and how generations mourn the passing of their old ways.Conversations between the Japanese characters is so controlled and couched in politeness and cultural rules.
The American occupation clearly led to many of the younger generation seeing alternative ways of life to that they had experienced before the war.
Some were happy with the ‘old’ constrained way of life and were less eager to change, however.A quick, satisfying, yet odd read.
4.5/5 The English are fond of their idea that our race has an instinct for suicide, as if further explanations are unnecessary; for that was all they reported, that she was Japanese and that she had hung herself in her room. I had forgotten what an Ishiguro novel is like. Of course, it is customary to treat first works as trial runs in the vein of Icarus, so I wasn't expecting another The Remains of the Day or Never Let Me Go. While my star rating for this doesn't match up to the other two, it i
I do not trust my current understanding of what I have just finished reading enough, and so I will leave the four stars where it is until I can return with a firmer grasp on things.
I do not judge with this statement, as the all inspiring "business woman" goal touched upon the mothers in this book has its own garrote to pay in the land of the free murderers and the home of the brave sadists.What I enjoy most about Ishiguro is this intangible sense of bitter nostalgia that mixes sadness and respite in equal measure.
The plot itself isn’t too complicated either; a Japanese woman called Sachiko is dwelling on her old memories in Nagasaki after her daughter commits suicide.
The story goes back and forth between ‘then’ and ‘now’, but that doesn’t get too complicated, either.Ishiguro managed to weave in a essence of the darkness of the time and people in Nagasaki after the atomic bomb was dropped.
This book was probably set in the 1950s, and at that time, Japan hadn’t exactly got back on its feet yet (though it was a lot better than right after the bombing, of course).I would have given this book 5 stars if not for the too-unclear ending.
The tone of all three novels I have read - Remains of the Day, Never Let Me Go, and A PaleView of Hills - were positively gorgeous in their overarching sense of dread without ever quite becoming truly dreadful, and description of characters' expressions and interactions with each other.
What an utterly tender, moving, lovely book...! Even more astonishing is that Ishiguro was so young when he wrote it... Such emotional depth and confidence as a writer....
Not sure how I feel, not sure exactly what Ishiguro was saying or intending with his characters, what the point of the entire narrative was.Well my decision is: displacement.
She lives in a bucolic setting in England but flashes back throughout the novel to her life in post-war and post-bomb Nagasaki and the various people in her life there.
The people have been displaced, even if they are in the same city.
I'm glad I waited a bit to think more about this rather than sloughing it off as an inscrutable book.
Start with The Remains of the Day, a quiet, haunting novel that packs a punch and will have you thinking about it long after you've finished its pages.Second, A Pale View of Hills confused me.
And for someone that likes their mysteries nicely resolved with a bow on top, this was a bit frustrating.A Pale View of Hills  tells the story of Etsuko, a Japanese woman now living in England.
She recounts being pregnant with her daughter, living with a cold, domineering husband, and her strange friendship with a mysterious woman and her young daughter.Strange things happen, not everything is as it appears, and the past and the present blur until they are indistinguishable.
راوی مطمئن و قابل اعتماد نیست، و بارها در حین بازگویی خاطرات به این اعتراف میکنه که حافظه همه چیز رو دستکاری میکنه و تصاویر رو تغییر میده."خطر لو رفتن داستان"در واقع اتسوکو و ساچیکو یه نفره و چون اتسوکو از خودش و گذشته اش متنفره برای همین در به یاد آوردن خاطرات، خودش رو همسایه مظلوم و مهربون به یاد میاره.
ساچیکو بارها در داستان میگه که دخترم برای من اولویت اول رو داره و بارها برخلاف این حرفش عمل میکنه، اون فقط به فکر خودشه به فکر داشتن یه زندگی خوب و جذاب.البته نویسنده، قضاوت رو به عهده ی ما میذاره.
از داستان پردازی و این معمای ذهنی و حل جالبش!ترجمه هم خوب و روان بود.
خب از اون کتابهایی بود که تا چندین روز باهام خواهد موند!میتونستم همینطور ۲۰۰صفحه دیگه به خوندن ادامه بدم بس که قلم ایشی گورو به دلم نشسته بود.خب فقط یه نکته ای هست.گویا که مترجم عزیز کتاب دقت کافی در ترجمه مهم ترین و کلیدی ترین بخش کتاب نکرده و باعث شده به کل داستان عوض بشه؛اگر داستان رو خوندین و آخرش گیج شدین احتمال داره به این خاطر باشه.تو ترجمه جناب امیر امجد(نشر نیلا)این اتفاق تو صفحه ۱۹۰افتاده؛من که حدس زده بودم چی شده رفتم سرچ کردم و به این مطلب زیر برخورد کردم که ازش نقل قول میکنم:«متاسفا

However, this is the second of his books (the first was When We Were Orphans) which left me feeling that I really have no idea what went on or why.
The twist comes very near the end, nothing much is explained, the past and present are fused together and you are left with a multitude of questions with no answers and unsure about whether anything described actually occurred at all.
I believe that this was Ishiguro's intention, to leave the reader to work out for themselves what may have really happened, but, ultimately, I found this approach too frustrating in this book.
With simple, yet solid writing and being finished within a few hours, 'A Pale View of Hills' surprised me by its feel throughout; it left me with an eerie and suspenseful feeling for the majority of the book, leaving me expecting more to happen.
More does happen, but slightly under your nose.
I went back a couple times to a point where I felt a bit confounded and I'm glad I did.
Ishiguro pulled the wool over my eyes and made me smirk in acceptance and satisfaction.
As I wasn't the biggest fan of 'Remains of the Day', I didn't know what to expect with his debut.
Am Ende gibt es eine mysteriöse offene Brückenszene, mit einem Twist, in der quasi Sachiko und Etsuko die Rollen tauschen, denn Etsuko verspricht Mariko, der Tochter der Freundin, dass sie sie aus der Situation herausholt, wenn das Experiment mit Frank nicht funktionieren sollte.
Der andere Aspekt ihrer Persönlichkeit ist die treusorgende unterwürfige, schwangere Ehefrau Etsuko diese würde nie betrügen, ist einigermaßen loyal zum Ehemann kann am Ende aber die Ehe auch nicht durchhalten.Kein Wunder, dass sich Etsukos ältere Tochter im englischen Exil dann irgendwann umbringt, denn sie wurde ja schon damals in Nagasaki quasi entsorgt und wurde auch in England immer von ihrem Stiefvater von der Mutter und von der jüngeren Schwester zurückgesetzt.
Earlier in the novel, Etsuko suggests that it was seeing this little girl that prompted all of her memories of Sachiko and her daughter Mariko, however in this last page of the section, Etsuko realizes “something else about the dream.
If this is true, and the image of the death of her oldest daughter marks the recollections of Mariko, then the changing of the pronouns at the end of the novel (when she addresses Mariko as her own child) suggest that Etsuko is aware at some level they are the same person, yet her memory separates them because of personal guilt or trauma.
اینکه بمب اتمی چه بلایی سر ژاپن اورد و ژاپن چی بود و چی شد؟ تا قبل از این رمان فکر نکنم هیچ رمانی ژاپنی ای خونده باشم، فقط یه مجموعه داستان کوتاه از موراکامی خوندم یا خلاصه هر چیزی که خوندم فضای ژاپن رو خیلی بهم نشون نداده و این در حالیه که تعداد خیلی خیلی زیادی انیمه دیدم.
Sachiko keeps making plans to leave that never work out.Etsuko herself is telling the story from England, where she moved with her first child, and then had a second child from a second marriage.
The younger daughter has come to visit her after her older sister's suicide.So much of the book is about moving forward, about letting go of the past, an essential theme because they live in Nagasaki, not long after the end of World War II.
Clearly her daughter's suicide is partly her fault, but it is clear that she doesn't think so from the way she tells the story.
Much of the novel, however, deals with the woman's recollections of her life in Japan, near Hiroshima Nagasaki, shortly after being devastated by the atomic bomb.One of my major complaints about this book is that said atomic devastation is really an incidental detail.
Don't be fooled - it doesn't.As I mentioned, this book is an easy read, which actually irked me.
At around the 100 page mark, I began to ask myself/Kazuo, "So what?
There are plenty of details that seem important (for example, a young child, clearly afraid, asking the woman, what's that around your foot?
فضای خیلی جذابی داشت.خوندنش روون و جذاب بود.در کنار اینها میشد سه نوع زن رو در مواجهه با مدرنیته توی کتاب پیدا کرد.زنی که آزادی و خودساختگی داره.زنی که فقط آزادی دارهزنی که هیچکدومش رو نداره.اولی، شخصیت دختر(نیکیتا) بود که در کشور خارجی به طور مستقل زندگی میکرد و درباره روابطش آزاد بود و تونسته بود خودش رو با دنیای خارج از ژاپن و سنت تطبیق بده.دومی، همسایه بود که با اینکه رابطهای خارج از چارچوب سنت ژاپن داشت، به خودساختگی نرسیده بود و نمیتونست تنهایی زندگی کنه. انگار هنوز بندهایی از زندگی سنتی ب
فضای خیلی جذابی داشت.خوندنش روون و جذاب بود.در کنار این‌ها می‌شد سه نوع زن رو در مواجهه با مدرنیته توی کتاب پیدا کرد.زنی که آزادی و خودساختگی داره.زنی که فقط آزادی دارهزنی که هیچکدومش رو نداره.اولی، شخصیت دختر(نیکیتا) بود که در کشور خارجی به طور مستقل زندگی می‌کرد و درباره روابطش آزاد بود و تونسته بود خودش رو با دنیای خارج از ژاپن و سنت تطبیق بده.دومی، همسایه بود که با اینکه رابطه‌ای خارج از چارچوب سنت ژاپن داشت، به خودساختگی نرسیده بود و نمی‌تونست تنهایی زندگی کنه.
Etsuko, a Japanese widow (now living in England) who has recently lost her daughter to suicide, recalls one summer in post-WWII Nagasaki when she becomes acquainted with her come-down-in-the-world neighbour Sachiko and her strange daughter Mariko.I read this in one sitting, so compelling and what an incredible ending.
But it's not a swing she's on." [emphasis added]Exhibit F)In the pivotal perspective change toward the end of the book (you know the one) when Etsuko/Sachiko is holding some rope that she just 'caught' her foot on, Mariko/Keiko runs away from her and "watch[ed] her suspiciously."Did Keiko later kill herself because she felt she was unwanted by her mother?
به انتهای کتاب که رسیدم منتظر کشف چیزی بودم، دلیلی برای روایت خاطرات گذشته راوی و اتفاقی که برای دخترش افتاده، و خب بعد از کمی فکر کردن و کنار هم گذاشتن بخش های مختلف بهش رسیدم.بنظرم این قدرت قلم فوق العاده ایشی گوروئه که سرنخ ها رو به خواننده میده ولی قضاوت و تصمیم نهایی رو به عهده خودش میذاره.
کتاب ایراد نگارشی داشت که اگر نبود تو همون صفحات پایانی گره داستان باز میشد.
یک روزه خواندمش و لذت بردم و احساس میکنم بعد از خواندن سه کتاب می تونم «کازوئو ایشی گورو» رو یکی از نویسندگان مورد علاقه ام بد
به انتهای کتاب که رسیدم منتظر کشف چیزی بودم، دلیلی برای روایت خاطرات گذشته راوی و‌ اتفاقی که برای دخترش افتاده، و خب بعد از کمی فکر کردن و کنار هم گذاشتن بخش های مختلف بهش رسیدم.بنظرم این قدرت قلم فوق العاده ایشی گوروئه که سرنخ ها رو به خواننده میده ولی قضاوت و تصمیم نهایی رو به عهده خودش میذاره.
کتاب ایراد نگارشی داشت که اگر نبود تو همون صفحات پایانی گره داستان باز میشد.
یک روزه خواندمش و لذت بردم و احساس میکنم بعد از خواندن سه کتاب می تونم «کازوئو ایشی گورو» رو یکی از نویسندگان مورد علاقه ام بدونم !
Bunu da ilginç bir yöntemle yapıyor.Günden Kalanlar'da olduğu gibi, yine bir karakterin geçmişini düşünmesini, hayatını sorgulamasını okuyoruz ve yine ilginç bir şekilde, ikisinde de beş gün içerisinde oluyor bu.
Günden Kalanlar'da baş karakter Stevens beş günlük bir yolculuğa çıkıyordu, Uzak Tepeler'de ise büyük kızı intihar etmiş Etsuko, küçük kızı Niki'nin yanında beş gün kalması boyunca hayatını sorguluyor.
Bunun çok benzerini Günden Kalanlar'da da hissettirdiği için, yazarın aslında bugün hepimizin mücadele ettiği insan tipini bizlere farklı bir bakış açısıyla sunmayı kendine misyon edindiğini ve bunun saygıya değer bir iş olduğunu düşünüyorum.Uzak Tepeler'de, özellikle üstteki paragrafta değindiğim hususlarda yazarın meramını açık bir şekilde okuyabiliyoruz.
Günden Kalanlar ve Beni Asla Bırakma 'dan sonra okuduğum üçüncü Kazuo Ishiguro romanı Uzak Tepeler oldu.
Diyaloglara çokça yer veren anlatım beni biraz yordu, daha önce okuduğum iki romandaki tadı alamadım.
Yazar bu duyguyu her eserinde başka bir kurgu ile aktarıyor bize."Amerika'ya asla gidemiyeceksin!" tümcesi Beni Asla Bırakma romanında da vardı.
Bende uyandırdığı duyguları sorarsanız, düşündüm!
Kendi hayatımı, baş kaldırışlarımı, isyanlarımı düşündüm.
Kaybetmekten çok daha önemli olan, yeniden kazanmayı umut etmek ve bunun için çok çalışmak, asla vazgeçmemek değil midir?
Yöneten oalmasanız da özgür bir insan olabilirsiniz, değil mi?#AliNamık 11 Ocak 2017 / Trabzon
Un bel rompicapo questo libro del recentissimo Premio Nobel Ishiguro. Inizialmente sembra tutto semplice e lineare, benché drammatico e solo parzialmente suggerito. Ma ciò che la narratrice ci racconta è vero? E, soprattutto, chi è lei? Si potrebbero fare diverse ipotesi e ciascuna spiegherebbe qualcosa, anche se non tutto. Intrigante.
به ریویوی ستاره و آرزو مراجعه کنید. با تشکر.ستارهآرزو
You read it once, get the big reveal at the end and then read it again to see how it was probably there in front of you all the time.
I’m not going to spoil the book here by saying what the reveal is, but I did guess it part way through.
Or, at least, I guessed two possible its and I haven’t quite decided yet whether one or the other, or perhaps both, are the one.This was my sixth Ishiguro novel, but it was his first.
يك داستان كوتاهِ بلند بود به نظرم، ابدا چيزي نبود كه بشه بهش گفت رمان.
از نظر من همه چيزش معمولي بود، كاملا معمولي.
ولي خب از ريتم آرامش دار ش، و فضاش، كه براي من جديد بود چون كلا ادبيات آسياي جنوب شرقي جزو علاقه منديهام به حساب نمياد و در نتيجه چندان چيزي هم ازشون نخونده م، لذت بردم بهرحال.+از اون كتاب هاست كه تمرين واقعا خوبيه براي در اومدن از حالِ خب اين الان كه چي؟ و رسيدن به حالِ لذت بردن از قصه بخاطر قصه و همين.++رابطه ي فرهنگ آسياي شرقي با گربه هم سواليه كه واقعا برام مطرحه الان، كه چرا و پيشينه ش چيه اصلا:))
A deceptively simple book.
I think it's important to pay attention to the narrator when she reminds you repeatedly that her memory may be faulty.
Perhaps it can't be trusted...My daughter read this one first and wanted me to read it to compare our thoughts and theories.
I was surprised on reading the reviews that there were so many people who took this book at face value and thus missed the full effect.
I personally believe there are a few different ways it can be interpreted and all of them are equally disturbing.
A truly intriguing book by a fantastic author.
Μου αρεσε το πρώτο του βιβλίο, αλλα δεν με ενθουσιασε.
Ίσως έφταιγε η ιστορία που δεν ηταν αρκετά ξεκάθαρη ως προς το νόημα και την εξέλιξη της.
Και τι εννοώ: κεντρικός χαρακτήρας, όπως διαβάζουμε και απο την περίληψη του βιβλίου, ειναι η Ετσουκο η οποια ζει τα τελευταία χρονια στην Αγγλία και δέχεται μια επίσκεψη απο τη μια της κόρη - η αλλη εχει αυτοκτονήσει.
Το οπισθόφυλλο αναφέρει οτι οι αναμνήσεις της παίρνουν μια δυσάρεστη τροπή.
Εχω διαβασει βιβλία με κρυφά μηνύματα που δινουν τροφή για σκέψη αλλα στο συγκεκριμενο δεν ένιωσα κατι τέτοιο.
Another great Kazou Ishiguro, a really interesting reflection on post-war Japan, family, memory and dislocation.
Her older daughter Keiko - a girl of of pure Japanese descent - is mentioned in passing - as having committed suicide.For a large part of the book Etsuko reminisces about her earlier life in Japan.
She also reminisces at length about her friendship with the strange and dysfunctional woman Sachiko,who lives nearby, with her young daughter Mariko, who is more or less allowed to run wild.
But even this reference to the war is very underplayed.There are many reasons why I should not have liked this book - most of them being a large number of unanswered questions...* When did Etsucko split up with her Japanese husband Jiro?
I don't trust Kazuo Ishiguro's narrators an inch, so reading this I just settled in and waited for her to reveal herself.
The slowly building sense of something not being quite right, the odd moments of disquiet -- the fact that everything is implication works perfectly, for me.It's not particularly surprising for Ishiguro's work, in that sense: it's very much his usual style and content.
I enjoyed it a lot, but I can understand why people wouldn't -- it's quite devoid of content, it's all atmosphere, and even what's there isn't so trustworthy, so...
What a cute little Japanese mindfuck of a book this was. Still not sure, what the heck just happened there?
It is a delicately woven tapestry of several themes, stitched together by the gift of Ishiguro's masterful but tender story-telling.
It's almost as if Etsuko's life itself is an allegory of her homeland during turbulent times, about to undergo a major paradigm shift.A beautifully narrated account of loss, loneliness, self assertion and the aftermath of war.P.S.:- In all earnestness, this book deserves 3 stars but I choose to be a bit more generous.
My 4-star-rating has lots to do with my bias for Japan and stories with a feminist slant.
