https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/728348.The_Man_Who_Walked_Through_Time
A really interesting travelogue, varying from the technical to the contemplative. The author walks upstream through the Grand Canyon some 50 years ago, in some places where it is likely no one walked before. His meditations on animals and geology are fascinating, and while he didn't encounter any great mishaps, Colin Fletcher presents himself as very human. Perhaps the most amazing thing to me is that this book was constructed after his adventure from notes in a journal.Selected this book from Vanya's top 10 books that influenced list, and I can definitely see why she enjoyed it. Recommended!
I like it very much. Hypnotic. Almost felt like I was meditating while I read it - his writing VERY much made you feel like you were there. Makes me realize how much I missed when we went to the Grand Canyon and meerly peered in! Also, I found this inspiring, and showed the power of something as simple as walking, because this man's walking trips have showed him such amazing things (going slow enough to really notice things, getting more up close and personal than whizzing by in a car or plane.)
I wish everyone who has ever visited the Grand Canyon would read this book.
The reader will learn about night in the canyon, and the path of the canyon, and the tests of the canyon, and the dreams and history and call of the canyon, and the endurance and strength of will and spirit that it takes to meet that call.
If you are just a dreamer, never having seen the place, then read the book, and start having new dreams of a world so different, so un-obfuscated by the drum beat of modern life, so filled with the fortunes of silence that your dreaming may just take you to this section of the Colorado Plateau, and change your life forever.
Fletcher, supposedly the first man to walk the length of the Grand Canyon, below the Rim (seems unlikely), wrote a book about it.
So every time he had some new impression of the Canyon, he would go on and on about how “now I had finally escaped the trivia of everyday life.
And each time he would then begin to scrutinize the Canyon and have another grand Moment, and repeat himself about escaping the trivia again.
All very tiresome; still there are some good scenes here, and his final chapter, consisting of his ruminations on Man, is pretty interesting.
The style so far seems a but overwrought but maybe it'll calm down once the guy gets onto the trail.Our man's on the trail now and dealing with the hard realities of the canyon.
When the author describes his walk through Supai he sounds condescending and snotty, much like Edward Abbey.
Maybe so, but...- "Huge and horrifying vaults of time" - UGH!- Jets flying low through the Grand Canyon could not be going anywhere near the speed of sound dude!
- and later a likening of flying over the Grand Canyon to looking at a beautiful woman in a bikini!
I really enjoyed this book partly because I just spent a week at the Grand Canyon.
Even though this was written in 1969, it was fun to hear his perspective of walking the Grand Canyon before there were many or any trails.
He was very introspective about his trip which was refreshing- no electronics, people or modern conveniences- just nature.
I am most disturbed about the possibility of our politicians allowing mining, rerouting the Colorado River or building within the beautiful Canyon.
This message was loud and clear from Colin in the 1970s when the Canyon was already at risk.
Two things became immediately apparent in the first chapters; 1) the author sees himself as superior to others and 2) he really likes the sound of his own thoughts.
This is more a book about Colin Fletcher than a book about the Grand Canyon.I tried to keep an open mind and thus ignore the ego-nihilism and his unfortunate attempts to be a great thinker.
Now at the end of the book, I can say reading it was a complete waste of time.
I wanted to learn about the Grand Canyon and especially some geologic detail as the title seems to hint at.
Don't waste your time like I did.
I've got to say, that after having enjoyed Bill Bryson's "A Walk in the Woods", this book was rather dull.
Colin Fletcher hikes from one end of Grand Canyon National Park to the other...and has a perfectly safe, enjoyable time.
Nothing dramatic happens to him.
While I certainly am glad he had a good, safe trip, it does however make for a rather boring read.
I kept waiting for the inevitable obstacles that I thought were coming, but nothing of the sort ever happened.
It's not a bad book, just somewhat dull and not what I was expecting.
I spent the weekend with Mr. Fletcher on his journy throuth the Grand Canyon in 1963. His journy took considerably longer. He was in the canyon almost 2 months and most of it in solitude.Colin was the 1st man to walk the length of Grand Canyon National Park beneth the Rim. He was an experienced hiker, having completed wakling the length of California from Mexico to Oregon in late 1950s. I learned a lot about the geology of the Grand Canyon. I learned about the wild ponies, burros, snakes, etc.

There were moments of this that I adored-- many stemming from just hiking the Canyon again so recently. Actually started this book in the base of the Canyon at Phantom Ranch. Yeah, I'm a cliche:)
Above all, I had overcome the fear that lurks somewhere deep in most of us, the fear that comes when somebody first says: “Man is a newcomer on earth,” the fear that threatens to overwhelm us when we first look back and down into a huge and horrifying vaults of time that ticked away before man existed.
I’ve read several of his books that document his adventures.“The Man Who Walked through Time,” is about his sojourn through the Grand Canyon: one end to the other.
A man that walked through time.
Am pleased to revisit one of the authors who filled in many gaps in my understanding about backpacking.
The best part of this book is the end, beginning with the day that Fletcher spent several hundred feet up a cliffsjde in a old set of caves where a family once lived.
It would be a difficult task to write a whole book about a two month hike through the Grand Canyon where most of the days were the same, but Fletcher kept me turning the pages.
Weight meant nothing back then, the hike was a very brave undertaking.
A great look at some on who spent a life walking while considering philosophy, history, and methodologies.One of my favorite saying from Colin is: Hell is where the police are Italian, the politicians are French and the cooks are English......
A favorite book.
The journey had succeeded for quite different reasons.""I remembered an insight of Emerson’s that I had read just before I began my journey: There is a relation between the hours of our life and the centuries of time.… The hours should be instructed by the ages, and the ages explained by the hours.
I had seen the ages; now it was time to come back to the hours.
Time to apply the ages to the frail, overwhelmingly important little time span that was my life, that is all our individual lives.
Before there were daily rafting trips all the way through, before there were quite so many restrictions...Fletcher's philosophical ramblings and details of his hike are entertaining, but this is definitely not an adventure book.
Sure, some of his days had some kind of sketchy ascents and descents, but this is more of a naturalists view of the terrain than a documentary of his trip.
And you get the fun look back into a time when you could still be considered a naturalist when throwing your trash in the river and killing rattlesnakes.If you like American outdoor literature, or study the southwest, this is a must read.
A Perspective from an older timeThis is a very interesting tale of a walk through the Grand Canyon in 1963. The perspective is dated in many ways, but much of it is timeless. The hiking challenges were very interesting to me as well as his disruption of the surroundings. He lost me a little in the spiritual talk of being one with the beaver etc., but that was still interesting keeping in mind the perspective.
Interesting true story of the first man to walk from one end of the Grand Canyon to the other, following the Colorado River. His insights of observation of the topography, it’s possible history, and especially his realization and internalization of how he fits into the story of the canyon and its development as such is compelling.
fabulous adventureIf you love the outdoors you will love the adventure we wish we could all go on if we were brave enough. C. Fletchers descriptions of what the Grand Canyon revealed to him on his 2 month journey are vivid enough to make you feel you are there with him.
Fantastic read by a great walker author about traveling a place that I treasure - below the rim of the Grand Canyon. The first known walker to complete it - in 1964, I believe.- on my radar for a long time due to the subject
An astonishing journey written with an eye to detail and beauty. I’ll have to read about all his other journeys now.
Colin Fletcher takes us on his journey with him through the Grand Canyon. I wanted more prose, something that would wow me, not just a diary of a journey. I still enjoyed the book.
Although it took a while to get used to the writing for me I really grew to love this book and found it masterfully crafted.
Colin Fletcher made me relive my experiences from the Grand Canyon and taught me about what lies within the inner rim! Best parts were of the scenery and nature.
Old, but awesome book! You feel like you were walking with him.
Another fine, inspiring book on walking/hiking.
Amazing. Blew me away, both the audacious adventure and the beautiful prose.
I am afraid my feelings about Colin Fletcher are rather similar to Harvey Butchart's.
A fascinating read about a serious walker's jaunt from one end of the Grand Canyon, as part of the Park, to the other.
It can be "seen" in three acts: Act I with camera, Act II abandoning camera and including naked hiking, Act III with new camera.
The author uses lengthy footnotes that should be part of the text.
The several ruminations on the nature of time - time itself as well as considering the span of 200 million years - are though-provoking.
The author's experience provoked him to be part of the successful public opposition to the Bridgre Canyon Dam.
