https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/364194.Naked_City
This particular edition ISBN 13: 9780306812040/ISBN 10: 0306812045Da Capo Press should be avoided if at all possible. This particular edition is printed on matte paper stock and thus almost all of the images are illegible. I cannot say what the originals looked like but the images /in this edition look as though they were produced on a photocopy machine. Whatever subtle hues in the original photographers are washed out of this printing in splotches of black and white. Avoid this edition.
This particular edition ISBN 13: 9780306812040/ISBN 10: 0306812045Da Capo Press should be avoided if at all possible. This particular edition is printed on matte paper stock and thus almost all of the images are illegible. I cannot say what the originals looked like but the images /in this edition look as though they were produced on a photocopy machine. Whatever subtle hues in the original photographers are washed out of this printing in splotches of black and white. Avoid this edition.
Weegee devoted his life to the seedy side of life and photography. He also was a bit of a self-centered asshole; but he didn't hide anything, so he was the type asshole you could respect and even enjoy. Very cool reading about how he'd scoop other photographers and often be getting done shooting as cops arrived at a crime-scene.
Weegee, scandal and crime photographer, made his mark in the 40s with his trademark Speed Graphic, shooting pictures for Time magazine and newspapers.
Weegee's nocturnal work is famous for documenting New York, capturing aspects of the people who inhabited this city - from Harlem to Coney Island.
This book is well worth reading and poring over the classic images.What I loved were Weegee's written vignettes to go along with the images - worthy of a classic noir, except this guy lived it.
In Weegee's words "To me a photograph is a page from life, and that being the case, it must be real."


There is some overlap with Weegee's World in this collection or visa-versa. The usual lineup of Weegee fare includes fires, murders, children playing, discrimination in Harlem, class hierarchy, lovers in Coney Island, and other scenes from a New York City long gone. Pictures like this are essential for anyone trying to understand the dark underbelly of NYC in the early 20th century.
I'd seen some of these pictures before, namely "The Critic", but didn't know the photographer was such a cult figure. As I was flipping through the book, the term "Nightcrawler" came to mind and a quick Google shows that the comparison's been made before.The quality of the photos is mentioned in several other reviews, and they are pretty terrible. Much better quality exists online in image searches. Da Capo's edition had a crappy "Hollywood Babylon" feel about it.2 stars for this edition's execution (because that image quality really is TERRIBLE), but a 4 for Weegee's original piece.
Weegee (Arthur Fellig) captures in photos and sprightly text the intrigue of the night (and, occasionally, the day) in New York City in the early 1940s. Fires, crimes, the opera, open air sleeping, assignations at the beach, Frank Sinatra and the bobbysoxers, and much more, with special stops in Harlem, the Bowery, and Coney Island. (Photos in this edition are grainy since they apparently are not from negatives but were shot from the original edition. A minor inconvenience.)
Much impressed by the directness, honesty, grace and respect reflected from the pictures captured by Weegee. We are not talking about coffee table books, glossy pictures, fancy covers. This is a document of the art of unpretentious documentary.
Esta edición es terrible, no se aprecia prácticamente ninguna de las fotografías con claridad... Una pena.
A man whose work I admire.
Unique, insightful glimpse of light and darkness, life and death captured through the lens of a genius!
A journey has to be taken with Weegee for both his photos and words.
Amazing Photographer. He created images long ago that hold up to today's artistic standards/tastes.
Pioneering street photographer, quick witted and quick fingered. The images and associated commentary are simply marvellous, a window to eternal human flaws and frailties.
I've been looking at this book since I found it on my parents' bookshelf at age 4. It never gets old.
I looked at this book, not read it obviously. Weegee was the best. Wish I could go back in time to experience NYC as he knew it.
