https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394772.The_Mixed_Up_Chameleon
Check out more Picture book reviews @ Perspective of a Writer...The mixed up chameleon is unhappy with himself and when he visits a zoo wishes to be other animals...
Normally the cut outs are super cool and a highlight of a Carle book but this time the flaps with the animals were confusing and made the book rather pointless to us.Some of the things the chameleon wanted were rather senseless (the flamingo was handsome but it took the bird's wings!?) and so the entire story just got muddy for us.
Text-to-world connection.
This book was a great way to explain the thought process of many people.
A lot of people are not happy with who they are.
Just like in the book we as people wish we can be something or someone else.
Just like the chameleon in the book wished to be all these different things and he still wasn’t happy.
No person is this world is the same.
Learn how to accept and love yourself for who you are.
After the chameleon realized trying to be all these different animals or people and that didn’t make him happy.
Text-to-Text ConnectionThe Mixed up Chameleon becomes bored with his daily routine until one day he sees the zoo.
I would compare The Mixed up Chameleon to the book A Color of His Own, which is also about a chameleon.
A great response activity for these books would be to have students choose one book and complete a character map for the character in their book.
Then, as a group activity use chart paper to compare and contrast the details the students came up with.
Another fun response activity would be to have the students write a narrative piece from the perspective of the chameleon.
All of Eric Carle's books are PERFECT reads for all kids!!!!!!!!
It’s great to be me! Loved this one.
This book was good, but I didn't really understand it until I read the Author Bio at the end, after the story. It was only upon reading about Eric Carle's process (or inspiration?) for writing this book that I understood why the chameleon ended up with parts of all the animals he had seen on him.So this was a fun story, but it just seemed fun - without point - until after I read the Author Bio. :-(
"The Mixed-Up Chameleon" is a story about a chameleon who is just like every other chameleon. It changes colors to match the things it is around. The chameleon sits around eating flies all day long. Then, one day, the chameleon goes to the zoo. It is amazed by all of the different animals it sees and with every animal it thinks about, wishes that it was like each animal in some way. Somehow, the chameleon's wish comes true! Eventually the chameleon has a part of every animal it saw in the zoo.
The chameleon wants to eat the fly but cannot because it's so mixed up with so many different animal parts.
Since the chameleon can't eat the fly, it wishes it was itself again.
Children can make connections to the text through teacher-led questions including: Do you sometimes wish you have things that other people have, like the chameleon did with he other animals?
Is the chameleon happy when it gets everything it thinks it wants?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wEqoJ...This is a WOW book for me because it addresses ideas about perceived happiness, change, and personal identity.
The mixed-up chameleon showed that wanting to be someone else, and getting that wish, does not always make you happy.
Other than as a follow up after a lesson about chameleons, this book is a great story in general.
It has a cumulative effect where each animal the chameleon wants to be is illustrated tiny on the side of each page, the number of them growing as the story progresses.
The kids thought it was hilarious to see how weird the chameleon looked every time he wanted to look more like another animal on each page.Overall a great book, lots of color and lots of fun for kids.
The chameleon then notices he can change his color and features to match the animal he was interested in, when in front of the goldfish he turns orange and grows fins like a goldfish.
Like a normal chameleon as he moves along he doesn't change back he keeps all of these different animal features, in the end looking very very funny.
This story is sure going to get a laugh out of its young readers and has an interesting lesson to be learned that it is okay to imagine being someone of something amazing such as a superhero, or firefighter, or maybe an animal that can swim or fly like the chameleon.
The book is written in a portrait orientation.
The end pages are textured like leaves or a fern which fits with the subject of the story which is about a chameleon.
The illustrations are done in a collage with paper cut into shapes and made into the animals.
The illustrations are very unrealistic with a lot of color and imagination.
When you get about half way through the book, you reach the cut outs on the edge of the page which label what the chameleon wishes it could be.
The cut outs make the book fun and playful.
This book is a great addition to any Elementary classroom.
This book hits many learning points such as the recognition and labeling of colors and the characteristics of a Chameleon species.
The story goes on to reveal that being your self is usually the best choice.
The story conveys that it might seem like other people have important qualities that are of greater importance than you’re your own, but embracing your own qualities as being unique and important is key.
This story has illustrations that would be extremely humorous to a young audience as the Chameleon gains body parts from different animals throughout the story.
This is a funny book about a chameleon who is usually the same boring colors most of the time, until he goes to the zoo. He changes to conform to many different animals, and in the end transforms back to himself to capture a fly to eat. This is a very good illustrative book and has lots of great colorful pictures for young kids. This could be used to inform students about chameleons and other animals and prepare them if they are going on a school field trip to the zoo.
A chameleon becomes bored with his life after seeing all the unique animals at the zoo. He discovers he can change his size and shape as well as his color.It was fun to teach my son about chameleons; how they can change colors and their eyes move independently (which was portrayed correctly in the book). As always, Eric Carle's illustrations are beautiful and the story was a sweet one, too.
Chameleon felt he lived a boring life. One day he noticed all the animals at the zoo and he wished he could have the attributes of the animals. His wish came true with each animal. The results prove to be rather entertaining. Be yourself and be happy with who you are, are the morals of this story.
This book is similar to a colour of his own by Leo Leonni. The story follows a chameleon who doesn't appreciate his own qualities and wishes to be like others, until he realises being himself is the only way he feels right. The illustrations are done in the same style as the hungry caterpillar and so seem familiar. Overall a great book for children in key stage 1 and foundation stage.
I hate to admit I haven't read a lot of Eric Carle books, but the ones I have read I have enjoyed! I love the color the texture and the premise. Who doesn't wish they were a giraffe, or a bear, ...but in the end, being ourselves is just right!
I loved this book as much as everyone's Eric Carle favourite - the Very Hungry Caterpillar. The face of the chameleon who never quite matches his surroundings is precious. Highly recommended to anyone looking for a book to entertain them as much as their child.
Imbalanced text-to-illustration ratio, and Carle's abstract style doesn't lend itself perfectly well to what the book is trying to do (chameleon tries to look like a bunch of different zoo animals), but it's a fun book to use for talking about animals and colors.
Not really sure why a chameleon is taking on the shapes of different animals, rather than their colors, but the illustrations are Carle's signature work with colored and textured paper. Excellent for teaching animal features.
Eric Carle is fabulous. My daughter and I love all his books!!!
Love Eric Carle's style... he creates quite the hybrid animal in this book!
The book is insanely violent and sad because we realize that the chameleon was the one who started this whole universe, by using his skill to force the caterpillar to eat all of the food, so that he would die and the chameleon would take the throne as the ruler of this world.
He used his Harvard education to plan a set of events that ended in the destruction of all life on the entire planet and become the ruler of this universe.
The chameleon wished that he could be smart as a fox, swim like a fish, strong like an elephant and more- when he made these wishes he began to change and become these different animals.
The chameleon became hungry but since he was all mixed up in the form of these different animals he could not catch the fly!
He wished to be himself again and his wish came true and he was able to catch the fly.
This could also be a fun project for kids to do, they could build off of this story and create different animals at the zoo with characteristics that the chameleon wishes he has.
This book is about a chameleon who goes to a zoo and sees all of the other unique animals and wishes it could have all of the other characteristics that the animals have.
The chameleon receives features of every animal that he likes, but ends up not being too mixed up and wishes to be himself again.
A lot of staples that are found in books by Carle can be found in this one.
It can be used to teach colors, it can be used to teach how adjectives are used, and it can be used to teach the names and features of different animals.
Have you ever wished to be like someone else?
Be able to look different?
Be able to do different things?
One day he came across a zoo of animals.
He saw how different they were and wanted to be just like them.
This made him change into some crazy mix of animals.
Is being himself the best?Colorful illustrations walk us through a little chameleon’s story.
The bright colors and textures bring out the diversity of animals.
It translates the message to children that it is best to be yourself.
Even if you can change, you shouldn’t want to.
Summary- The chameleon came upon a zoo, he saw all these wonderful animals and was amazed at all of their strengths.
The chameleon wish he was like all these different animals and soon enough he was unrecognizable, he had the head of an elephant, the next of a giraffe, the fins of a seal, etc.
The chameleon could no longer do what he loved, catch flies.
He then realized that it was better to be himself.
My view- I thought this story had a great moral at the end that students can relate to, it is better to be yourself than anyone else!
As the story progresses, it gets more outrageous as you see the different parts of animals on the chameleon's body.
It was interesting to learn that Eric Carle uses collages to create the illustrations in this book.
I thought it was cool to learn how a book that I read as a child was made.
I liked that illustrations mostly just had the white space around them.
I think it would've been a little too much if there were a lot of extensive backgrounds and it also helps you focus on the combination of animals on the chameleon.
The chameleon's life was not very exciting until the day it discovered it could change not only its color but its shape and size, too. When it saw all the wonderful animals in the zoo, the chameleon wanted to be just like them. It's a funny book that, in the end, explains that it's okay to be different or yourself in a world of unique and beautiful things. I love Eric Carle's beautiful illustrations and his interesting books. In this one, the pages were cut on the side and showed the color and animal the chameleon changed into.
This is an amazing book when coupled with the right props. Mr. Carle does a wonderful job of engaging young children through his words teaching them to simply be happy with who you are. The is a great story to introduce the concept of self-confidence and building your self-esteem. Beautiful art projects can be created in a classroom based off of the illustrations in the book and the overall message taps into various domains to spark creativity and expression for young children.
The idea that stood out to me from this text was that you will be more successful when you are being yourself. However, the text does take on an imaginative role with each animal feature the chameleon begins to possess. The illustrations in this book also complement the text. Topics: imagination, creativity, being yourself, colors, animals, zoo, characteristics of animals, change, transformation, wishes/wants.
