https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16433.Forever_Odd
I have seen a lot of negative reviews for this book, and after reading it, I can see where people might feel that way.
However, I thought it was very enjoyable.
The leader is very focused and unreasonable in her goals - a one track mind of questionable motivation that doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
Odd manages to maintain a sense of humor even when facing adversity and his one-liners are often priceless.
It may not be the finest of literature, but I liked the next chapter in the world of Odd Thomas and I look forward to more.
Naturally, instead of traversing the globe, gathering items of magical power, you scour the internet, developing online relationships with crippled people, right?
Of course, because chances are good that one of those crippled people has a friend who can see the dead.Hey, there you go!
Of course you could just kidnap him and cut his heart out and then if he's gifted, you've got the gift, and you've only killed one person instead of three.
This time, Odd's crippled friend gets kidnapped by a dominatrix (you can stop pretending, it's not you), and dragged out to an abandoned casino to await Odd's inevitable rescue.
The title kind of suits this book because well, the main character's name is Odd, the story is also odd and even the genre is odd. You couldn't tell if it's horror or comedy. So, in short, Forever Odd is one odd book. Is it odd that I enjoyed reading this? :)
As we discovered in Odd Thomas, Odd is able to see and speak to the ghosts of newly dead people and those who don't move on.
This makes life for Odd very difficult as the dead (including the ghost of Elvis) are all around him and he chooses to live in the small town of Pico Mundo in Southern California where life is quiet and few people know about his unusual gift.
At the end of the novel Odd announced that wants to move to an unusual place so that may lead to further development of his character.
While this Odd Thomas book was a good and entertaining read, I say so resignedly.Everything is here to make this as solid a book as the first; interesting plot, great supporting characters, etc.
True enough, that's no reason to hate the book, and I don't - I just wish there were a few things that tied the plot more to the first book.
I wanted this story to really address Odd's interactions with the other people in Pico Mundo, and develop Odd's character even more after the events of book one.
Hopefully the third book ties things together in a more satisfactory way.
The way that I remember it the woman serving as the bad guy, the woman a character describes as "crazier than a syphilitic suicide bomber with mad-cow disease," is really too evil to be believable.
Luckily I now have goodreads to serve as my memory bank and I'll get to remember that I actually do like this book the next time around.
This is a being that wants to call upon the dead and sees Odd as a means to an end.
With his friend's life literally on the line, he will have to be extra careful and smart to get himself and Danny out of this mess.For me, Forever Odd was an odd beast.
On top of that, we did not get any development with Odd as to why he is the way he is with seeing the dead.
Sure it was great to have dead Elvis back again, but why can Odd see him?
When Odd Thomas's friend is kidnapped by a crazy psycho woman, Odd must find and rescue him before he is killed. Will he succeed in his mission? Read on and find out for yourself.This book is pretty good and sets the tone for the rest of this series. Definitely check this book out with the rest of the series at your local library and wherever books are sold.
This is the sequel to Odd Thomas, one of my favorites from Koontz.
I wasn't expecting it to be as great as the first in the series but I was looking forward to it anyway.Sadly, it lacked that emotional spark that made Odd Thomas so appealing a read.
This time Odd's friend is kidnapped and he spends the book attempting a rescue and battling a crazed female psychopath who wants Odd to conjure her a ghost.
I found my mind drifting away far too often as I read.
Too much action, too little emotion.
Oh well, I'll just have to back and reread Odd Thomas again.
Second in the Odd Thomas lightweight horror series revolving around a man who sees ghosts.
He uses Odd's character to write the stories in this series and he uses the opportunity to relay his own philosophies about life.
Odd comes to feel why Elvis likes to hang out with him.
And Koontz provides a valid reason for his staying on this side of the veil.You'd like Danny.
It definitely draws on his experiences with Odd and Terrible Chester.Terri Stambaugh lives in her own world since her husband died of cancer some years back.
It is an awesome series that has a blemish because unfortunately Koontz rushes into Forever Odd.ProblemsOdds best friend appears out of nowhere: odd specifically states everyone who knows about his gift in the first book.
I think my review reflects the overall feeling one will get from reading forever odd.I do not mean to, as I said, turn you away from the series.
I'm already half way into brother odd and so far it is my favorite book of the series by far.
I am still amazed by the amount of times I find myself laughing out loud when reading the "Odd" books.
Brilliantly done and 5 starts for the interesting storyline.
The most brilliant thing about the book is that Dean writes in a clever way (yes, some of my friends did not get some of the funny parts); the way that things said in the beginning of the book ends up being absolutely hilarious later on while the book still keeps the serious foundation of the story that is being told.
This is an easy read and yet brilliantly balanced, 'must read' book.
You have to then get the series of 'Odd' books and read it yourself to find out what I'm raving about here.
After a hiatus, I returned to the world of Odd. I enjoyed the first book meeting the eccentric, sensitive Odd Thomas and his friends and neighbors of this world and beyond.
So I dove into the second book of Odd ready for a walk on the wild side again.
Odd pursues a childhood friend kidnapped by a special kind of villain.
It's a race against time and the first part of the book met my expectations.
But then as the pursuit wore on and on, I found myself skimming.
Skimming through Dean Koontz?
Odd Thomas gets under your skin.
Does he need the money that bad?” With a story that consists only of repetitive tidbits of history and chase scenes (again, that’s the whole book), the only good thing is that you don’t need to read its predecessor to understand.
Now you would think that my love for the characters would have carried over from the first book, but it’s wasn't so.
257 And Mr. Koontz – Dean, considering that you wrote this book for the money, feel free to send me a check for $50.
The only good I could find in this book was this one sentence: “She’s crazier than a syphilitic suicide bomber with mad-cow disease.” –pg.
SPOILERS, but the book is not really worth anything so...The protagonist runs around in the sewers and a deserted casino in search of a kidnapped childhood friend (about whom we didn't hear a word in the first book). He discovers that a succubi dominatrix has kidnapped his friend, but don't worry - a mountain lion jumps out from nowhere and kills her.BOOL!The End.
Love love love these Odd Thomas books... On to the next one!!
3.5 stars I liked this one more than the first book. It contained less doom n' gloom foreshadowing but kept up the creepy plot and wild characters. Still somewhat disturbing but interesting enough that I might listen to the third one. I like how philosophical Odd gets and the way he treats the ghosts.
What he doesn't know is what's become of Danny--the Doctor's son, and a good friend.After some exploration he decides Danny has been taken, and calls in the Police Chief--one of the few people in town to know of his abilities.
Once the scene is under control, the Chief and Odd set off together in hopes that Psychic Magnetism will draw Odd to Danny.
And is led to another dead end.Eventually the magnetism kicks in full force, and Odd finds himself below the city, in a network of Flood tunnels, pondering their immensity and the breadth of their existence.
If you haven't read Odd Thomas, I certainly suggest that you do - this follow-up volume finds Odd in another strange situation.
Because Odd can see dead people, he knows something bad is going on when the ghost of his friend Danny's step-dad shows up at the foot of his bed.
Danny has been kidnapped - and a strange woman keeps calling Odd with cryptic comments.
Following the kidnappers to an abandoned casino, Odd faces down a strange set of killers.
It's better than I can describe - Koontz's prose is fun and chilling - quite the best mix of horror and fantasy.
In this book I actually totally fell in love with Odd and I couldn't get enough of his weird little ways.
The first setting when Odd begins his trip are the underground drainage system beneath Pico Mundo which are huge and cavernous and seem to be miles and miles long.
Buildings like these always fascinate me and if I'm ever near an old abandoned house, barn, castle, anything, I am compelled to go in and explore even if there is do-not-enter signs hanging omniously from the gates.
I think this is why this setting intrigued me so much and it's definitely a huge part of why I enjoyed the story to the degree that I did.
Odd Thomas is truly Forever Odd and thank goodness for that because it sure makes for an entertaining book.
What do you get when you combine Odd’s 6th sense with a psychopathic wanna-be witch doctor woman and her zombie goons and put them all in an creepy abandoned casino full of dead people.
You want to see but it's so creepy.
If you’ve seen the Odd Thomas books and weren’t sure, I say, go for it.
I think you’ll like them.
I will be moving on to the next Odd Thomas book in the series.
This review is based on a recent re-read:Odd Thomas is at it again....
But as Odd applies his unique talents to the task of finding the missing person, he discovers something worse than a dead body, encounters an enemy of exceptional cunning, and spirals into a vortex of terror.
Once again Odd will stand against our worst fears.
about Odd Thomas.
It's more emotionally involved - and I loved it!If you're a fan of suspense/thriller/horror stories, but also want an amazing hero to join you on your reading journey, then you definitely need to read this series.
Hey, Forever Odd. How ya doin'? Good? Yeah? Look, I'm just gonna come out and say it, things just aren't working out. It's not you, it's me.....Okay, who are we kidding. It's totally you. Your plot is weak, the story feels like it's not going anywhere, and I'm bored. The magic is gone. And with only one week left of summer vacation, I wanna play the field. You know, weigh my options, read around, see if something catches my interest. I just can't be tied down. But I really do hope we can be friends. DNF: 46%
With that being said, other than the sarcastic humor that made me fall in love with Odd in Koontz in the first place, I found nothing enjoyable about this second in the series.
I'm a slow reader, I like to digest every line an author has written because, after all, they took the time to write it and I feel that every word deserves my attention.
As with Odd Thomas, the first book in the series, Odd reflects on the human condition at the end and pretty much nails it.
Probably my least favorite of the series :-(Favorite parts from Forever Odd:The Tree Of Death stands across the alley and down the block from the Jessup place....Mr. Ying enjoys lecturing on the deadly nature of the lovely brugmansia.
Every part of the tree - roots, wood, bark, leaves, calyxes, flowers - is toxic.One shred of its foliage will induce bleeding from the nose, bleeding from the ears, bleeding from the eyes, and explosive terminal diarrhea.
I adore Odd so so much - could he be any cuter?Review to comeAudiobook CommentsRead by David Aaron Baker and he did a fab job with this one!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
The first book was good...this was not good. I'm not going to spoil it for anyone who wants to/is reading this one but there are some serious holes in this story. The biggest, being Odd's best friend who was never mentioned in the first story. The other is the ending for which I am only confused. The resolution was far-fetched, even for fiction horror.
Nothing special here, but the "voice" of Odd Thomas. I listened to the audiobook and was slightly bored with the wandering that Odd did in the story. I suppose it was due to the pacing, which was really slow.I'll read the next, but I'm in no rush.
A great addition to the Odd Thomas series!
Освен това анотацията в гуудрийдс-профила на книгата е сгрешена и това всъщност е описанието на първия том - "Чудакът Томас", Odd Thomas (2003).
В "Чудакът Томас: Завръщането", Forever Odd (2005) "негов приятел от детинство изчезва безследно.
Дали не се е случило най-лошото?
Од използва необикновените си способности, за да открие изчезналия, но се натъква на нещо много по-страшно от труп - изправя се срещу лукав и коварен враг и е въвлечен във водовъртеж от ужасяващи събития.За пореден път той ще устои на най-големите си страхове, ще му помагат стари и нови съюзници, някои живи, други - не.
