https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121218.The_Vanishing_American
The primary plot line is a romantic one, a young Navajo named Nophaie falls in love with a young white woman, Marian Warner, while completing their respective educations in the East.
Nophaie returns the place of his birth, the home he was abducted from at the age of seven, in order to help his people, and Marian follows not long after.
Nophaie was successful in the East and is respected in the West, but where does he belong in society?
Zane Grey is at his best in descriptions and feelings generated by the mountains and desserts in the southwest (thinking the grand canyon area). It's also the story of a young indian raised by whites in the east and returned to his roots. He has a hard time assimilating; in fact it's so difficult for him that he can't even marry the white girl that he loves. I don't like the ending and if all of Mr. Grey's stories were this sad I would not read them ... but they aren't.
A brilliant novel. I still need to read the unedited original version.
Another Grey story that is simple in plot, but illustrative about the changes Native American's faced in the early 20th century.
Incredibly sad. It hurts so well, though. It is a beautifully tragic portrait of how Americans did (and continue to) treat others. Extremely thought-provoking
would have been 4 stars but I hated the ending!!
I have had a small desire to read Zane Grey for some time now.
The book caused concern by certain powers that be as a result of descriptions of missionaries unscrupulous work with the then called Indians.
All that said, the book read fairly easily for me.
He does a nice job of it but it's not something I enjoy reading as much as this book has.
Finally, I am going to include the last paragraph of the book here so you can get an idea of Grey's writing soul.
Five decades later I was blown away by Grey's characters, action, and especially in "Riders," powerful description of the magnificent Southwest landscape.
Yes, some of the stereotypical western characters appear here, but it is important to remember that these tropes originate in Grey's novels.
So I started reading Grey novels as soon as I could find them--not an easy task.The term "vanishing American" was used in the 1960s in reference to then current novels and films sympathetic to the American Indian cause.
Grey's POV in "Vanishing American" is astoundingly contemporaty to the 21st century, especially considering it was published in 1922.

Boooooring
2  - 3 stars
2 ½ - 3 stars
