https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278102.Kaleidoscope
Great read! a beautifully written story with love,lost and life involved (paperback!)
Wow! No matter how many years go by, I will never forget this book. I would recommend it to....ANYONE!
I planned to finish this book in a week. Who ever knew that I would finish it in a day! Another great story from Danielle Steel. I cried over it from the start till the end of the novel. Touchy. Well... stories about broken families always touch me deeply. You guys really have to read this one.
Utter tripe. I enjoyed this, it was entertaining to blaze through on a road trip. But quite honestly, it was melodramatic, shallow, and just plain dumb. I must be growing out of my Danielle Steel phase, even so, queen of shit-lit will always have a place in my heart.
This was my favorite Danielle Steel book. After many many DS books I finally got tired of her tedious style. But if you're into Danielle Steel, this is a must read.
Finding people in todays times is so easy, they are usually just a click away unless you are reading a spy thriller where the person pursued knows how to hide.
But this 1987 release novel shows us the real effort involved in finding people!
I am in love with the way the author has built the story and the characters, you just feel like you know them.
You just have to read a novel like this, it will touch you, make you think and at the same time entertain you.
Just loved it, I know you will too!
The book is full of unexpected twists and turns which leaves the readers breathless gasping for more...As Sam Walker returned home from war with a beautiful wife, Solange, nobody not even they themselves could have ever foreseen what life held ahead for them.
They reunite after thirty years only to find there was more to their past life.Filled with love or the lack of it, drama, hope, despair and freedom, the book keeps its readers glued to it.
Once you start reading it, you would find yourself getting attached to the pain, joys and struggles of the characters more and more.I would rate this book 5/5 on every aspect that remains open for debate.
I loved reading this book, as it is about family and that's an issue of importance to me. I f you are family oriented, you would love reading it too.
Lalu disuguhkan adegan "manis" saat prajurit Sam Walker jatuh cinta terhadap wanita Perancis, Solange, yang digambarkan sang mempesona dengan rambut merah menyalanya.
Solange dibunuh Sam, di depan anak-anaknya...............Sang sahabat semasa perang, Arthur, terpaksa mencarikan keluarga yang mau merawat ketiga kakak beradik Walker: Hillary, Alexandra, dan Megan.
Pertama, Arthur terpaksa menaruh mereka di rumah kakak Sam, sebuah rumah di daerah kumuh dengan kehidupan yang kacau.
Hillary yang masih berusia 8 tahun terpaksa menjadi dewasa demi menjaga adik-adiknya.Arthur hanya mendapatkan 2 keluarga yang masing-masing hanya mau merawat salah satu anak.
I think its one of the best books by Steele!She wonderfully tells the story of 3 sisters who are separated due to unfortunate events and misgivings.
She is the voice of reason among them and the only one who understands Hillary's pain and Megan's love for her father.
She has an awful husband but gets through everything with her pride still intact and finds the love of her sisters again.Megan grows up to be a strong girl who fights for what she believes in.
Wow. It was a drama read and it made me cry quite a lot at times. It was also so well-written that the story, although "squezed" into 372 pages (I read a kinda different edition) was totally NOT boring or with plot gaps. And that is talent. :) Seriously, I would read it again if I felt the urge for a romantic-tragic story that kept my interest intact thoughout its pages. The plot twists were efficiently and amazingly working as a true kaleidoscope! Enjoy the read!!
I really enjoyed this book. Read it years back. The plot is very interesting, about 3 sisters who are separated when little and each of them lives a very different life than the other, and when they grow up they find each other and its amazing to see how completely DIFFERENT they are. The book sort of shows the nature vs nurture debate.The book is also in very simple language and easy to read. Keeps you glued till the end!
beautifully written!
It's set in mid and post WWII, and centers itself around the oldest child of three sisters, Hilary, who, when her parents tragically and abruptly disappear out of her life, is then separated and forced to live with new people, in a new environment foreign and unfamiliar to her.
Kaleidoscope has essentially changed or helped me see my view on the way I handle conflicts not only in my life, but in others lives as well.
I'd recommend this book to those who love tragic, affectionate, and dramatic story lines, with a twist that wraps up the story in a subtle, yet decorative way.
Даниел Стийл няма слаба книга.
La fin était assez évidente, on peut facilement la deviner avant la fin de la première partie. Mais bonne lecture tout de même.
excelente libro!!! la narración es perfecta, es una historia larga de varias genraciones que a pesar de tener muchisimos detalles los narra rápidamente sin detenerse en detallados excesivos, avanzas tan rapido que ni siquiera te das cuenta que estas a punto de terminarlo, la descripcion dice que es un libro de romance erótico pero es totalmente falso! este libro es puro drama y del bueno, excelente lectura!
Después el sueño del soldado se hace realidad, el amor por una bella pelirroja es correspondido, un amor sin igual y llegan las preciosas niñas y así mismo la debacle de la familia.
Y todo por una terrible noche que marcará para siempre el futuro de las niñas.
El futuro de las otras dos niñas lo dejaré como una interrogante para que crezcan sus ganas de leer esta historia.Sería fabuloso que le dieran una oportunidad a la pluma de Danielle, porque estoy más que segura de que las (os) cautivarán.
In my opinion, the whole plot revolves around the life of Hilary and her depressing and solitary existence while the other two main characters – Alexandra and Megan – were just add-ons to make the story more cohesive.
I understand Hilary’s bitterness and anger, all that hate and resentment against Arthur, except that the supposed build up towards the twist at the end was not a big surprise.
Or maybe this is not supposed to be a suspense story.This is not to say, though, that I hated it.
I love the contrast between the three lead characters except that maybe she has made them too predictable for my taste.Kaleidoscope is an easy read.
The younger ones are adopted whereas Hilary is left on her own to go through the most devastating phases of her life.But she makes it her own, with her will,her pain so strong it doesn't let anyone come in her Life.It all changes when a private investigator is asked to find the three girls by a guilt prone friend of their father's who is about to die and wishes to see them united.Would they meet ...would Hilary move on ?
is something you can know only after going through the Life each little girl had.And you can do that only if you are ready to go through the dark and depressing sometimes happy emotions it brings.
4+Opet se pokazalo koliko su zaista dobri oni romani Danielle Steel čija je radnja smještena u neki zanimljiv historijski period, a nije ona tipična: on je bogati filmski producent, a ona se upravo razvela bla blaaaa!Roman u početku prati Sama i Arthura, dva najbolja prijatelja koji se skupa vraćaju iz rata.
Na putu kući Sam upoznaje lijepu Francuskinju Solanž kojom se ženi i sa kojom dobiva 3 kćerke.
Nakon nekoliko godina sretnog braka i tragedije koja ih pogađa 3 sestre ostaju same.
Silom ih razdvajaju i daju u različite hraniteljske porodice...roman prati njihove živote i sudbine koje su ih zadesile nakon tragedije.
(He's 93 & has read every Nora Roberts book and is now into DS.) So I read it this AM.
Ok, I just read Hilary's part.
I don't know how I feel about these types of books - if they do no harm or in fact, are harmful because they take serious things and kind of make them unreal.
And there's always a happy ending - love conquers all.
and yet, people love this kind of book.
DS & NR are probably the most read authors, ever.
This is the 1st Steel book I've read.
I've read a few of Roberts.
Two American soldiers, Sam Walker and Arthur Patterson become really good friends.
Sam and Arthur are sent to Germany to fight the Nazis.
Sam and Arthur go back to America and Solange joins them soon there.
Sam and Solange are married soon by their best friend Arthur.
This news shatters Hillary and she loses all hope in life.20 years after her family is destroyed she had become a successful woman and now runs a well-known TV channel.
Who says that he is looking for Hillary Walker the girl who was in fact the eldest daughter of Sam and Solange Walker, who had died years ago.
Boy meets girl in Paris during the war and falls in love. They have 3 children. He was a Broadway actor and an argument leads to a murder and then suicide. The 3 girls are taking to an aunt and life is very hard. 2 of the girls were adopted out and had a good life. The oldest girl was not and life was unbearable. She formed a great hatred to the man who she blames separated the sisters. He is dying and is trying to get the sisters back together
This book is about three sisters and their lives. They loose their parents as children and brought to different families. The biggest sister lives the worst life among them. She is brought up by her aunt's family and then in an orphanage where she is mistreated and used. After the ups and downs she finally gets a good job and becomes a fine working woman and looks for her sisters.
such an outstanding novel with so much sincere and authentic feelings and emotions. yet the tremendous amount of tragedy inherent makes us believe that despite all the calamities that life can sometimes so callously render upon us, life can take us towards a new path, a new beginning full of hope and happiness again...
When I was reading Danielle Steele, I loved her books.I was obsessed with her books. Not I can't even pick up one of her books.
Very good book so far. Not your usual Danielle Steel story. I am enjoying the journey.
this was my first and last encounter with danielle steel. the story was lame and the writing was terrible. it took a lot of self-control not to mark up the pages with a red pen.
L'un des rares de Danielle Steel qui m'a réellement touché !A lire !
