https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25106.Fables_Reflections
A priceless journey through history and folklore! Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Shawn McManus, P. Graig Russell, Bryan Talbot, Kent Williams, John Watkiss, Jill Thompson, Duncan Eagleson & Stan WochCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein EMPERORS, CITIES, MONTHS, TEARS & SONGS In this sixth volume, Fables & Reflections, you will find an illustrated short story right in the beginning of it, even before the introduction, written by Gene Wolfe (which by the way, no off
There is nothing wrong is reading fiction, but having in mind that real life can be as fascinating, fantastic and almost impossible to believe than fiction.Sometime we read fiction because we think that life is too ordinary, too real, but if you wander through history you will find so many chapters defying logic and common sense, and yet, they’re real.Reality isn’t a bad thing, sometimes people find fiction like that land where any dream can come true, but reality has the same chance, if you embrace it as well.What’s real?
The best of these four—in fact, the best of the entire collection—is the story of the Caliph of Baghdad and the bargain he makes with the Lord of Dreams.
In Gaiman’s mythology, Orpheus is the son, not of Apollo, but of Morpheus, and Dream’s entire family, who attends Orpheus’ wedding, are caught up in the tragic events surrounding the death of his wife Eurydice.
Gaiman’s economic method of connecting Orpheus to the Sandman story is ingenious, but the real attraction here is the straightforward telling of the legend of Orpheus itself and the memorable illustrations of the wedding, the palace of Dream, the cottage of Death, the wraiths of Hades, and the rage of the frightful Maenads.
My long overdue journey through Sandman continues (I’m not sure which streak lasted longer—my not reading Sandman or my virginity…well, no, that’s not true; we all know which streak lasted longer).
Another excellent volume, though the one-off nature of each of the issues contained herein made the flow a bit more uneven than the past couple of volumes.
Still, the series as a whole gets better with each volume, and my passion for it has grown considerably since the end of Vol. 2, at which point I wasn’t wildly enthused (not unlike my first lover, though, in her case, she felt that way halfway through Vol. 1).
Onward to Vol. 7!
I'm really in the swing of my Sandman re-read and loving every second of it, now.I love the retelling of Orpheus.
Hell, that entire sequence sent chills down my spine and kept making me think along the original storyline, making fantastic connections.
It's not for the faint of heart.
My only complaint was the script.
It wasn't the easiest to read.
Still, what lies underneath is the most important.
Watching Emperor Augustus play a beggar was priceless, as was the examination of what makes an everlasting empire.
But the First and Last Emperor of America was brilliant.
Volume six is a collection of shorter stories, one-shot issues that may or may not be related to the main story arc, but they offer the author the chance to explore different aspects of the way Dreams shape our world and define our personalities.
Ramadan  - Harun al-Rashid, another ruler who likes to wander in disguise among his subjects, reflects on the transience of beauty, and makes an appeal to Morpheus to preserve the most magnificent city in all history (Baghdad) by moving it into his realm of Dream, becoming the stuff of legends and myths, the only form of beauty that transcends Time.
I feel bad every time I don't love a Neil Gaiman book (which seems to be a lot).
He's a genius, if you didn't know.
So I know my cool factor is pretty low, but especially when I rate one of his books poorly.
So I'm sure it's just me.
I am unable to see the brilliance.
I know.
This was a longer volume, and there were a few stories I liked.
However, I admit, I skimmed most of it because I can never get into the stories based in different time periods.
Sometimes I really don't even like Morpheus/Dream.
Despite the fact that it was a comic book, and I generally expect to see simple writing in those, the calibre of the writing was very high and the stories were quite intellectual and thought-provoking.
I am definitely going to read the other books in the series.
Speaking of which, I started the series on Volume 6 because I received this volume for my birthday (thank you Shirley <3) but I don't think that hurt my enjoyment of the book in any way.
4,5*Άλλος ένας τόμος με short stories, τον οποίο και ξεκίνησα με επιφύλαξη αλλά τελικά μου άρεσε ακόμη περισσότερο από τον αντίστοιχο τρίτο!Ουσιαστικά σε όλες τις ιστορίες πρωταγωνιστές είναι τα όνειρα και οι επιθυμίες των ανθρώπων που μπλέκονται με την πραγματικότητα και επηρεάζουν τις ζωές τους.
Όλες οι ιστορίες μου άρεσαν αν και βρήκα τις August και Ramadan λιγάκι πιο φλύαρες από ότι θα ήθελα, ενώ η δεύτερη είχε και κάπως περίεργο σχέδιο, διαφορετικό από τις άλλες ιστορίες, το οποίο δεν μπορώ να πω ότι με ενθουσίασε.
Μου άρεσε επίσης ιδιαιτέρως αυτό το κάπως ασαφές τέλος που μπορεί να είχαν!
Norman Mailer described the series as "a comic strip for intellectuals." (Wiki)The Sandman #19, "A Midsummer Night's Dream", won the World Fantasy Award in 1991 for Best Short Fiction.
Also, The Sandman and its spin-offs have won 26 Eisner Awards, including three for Best Continuing Series, one for Best Short Story, four for Best Writer (Neil Gaiman), seven for Best Lettering (Todd Klein), and two for Best Penciller/Inker (one each for Charles Vess and P.
The Sandman: The Dream Hunters was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Related Book in 2000.
This is my least favorite volume so far, most stories bored and I couldn’t care about the characters and the conclusion of the story especially since they aren’t connected.Issues 29-31: 2 starsThe Hunt (#38): 4 stars Soft Places (#39): 2 stars The Parliement of Rooks(#40): 3 stars Ramadan (#50): 3 stars
Fables & Reflections was probably my least favorite Sandman volume so far. While I delighted in the single-issue stories in Dream Country, the ones contained in this one didn't thrill me as much. I lost my focus a few times and wished there weren't so many grouped together without a common theme. Dream Country, on the other hand, was the perfect taste of outside-the-plot mini tales.The stories about Orpheus were the most interesting, being the most relevant to Dream, and I found myself wishing more issues were devoted to his story.
There are nine stories in the volume, each relating to the Sandman universe in its own way, yet each remarkably different and unique in their own way (minus the Orpheus volumes).The opening chapter, Fear of Falling, really a prologue, is in itself wonderfully written and in only a few pages it packs a powerful message.
I am not the latter, I love these short stories, and how Gaiman weaved Dream into them in very clever ways.Regardless, Fables and Reflections is a volume that should not be missed, and is one of the better Sandman volumes so far.
Sandman, Vol. 6: Fables and Reflections: Luminous tales of rulers, adventurers, dreamersAfter Vol 5: A Game of You, my least favorite Sandman volume so far, I’m happy to report a resounding return to form in Vol 6: Fables and Reflections, a collection of stand-alone stories centered on various prominent figures in different periods of history, including the Emperor of the United States in 19th century San Francisco (“Three Septembers and a January”), Robespierre in early 18th century revolutionary Paris (“Thermidor”), a mysterious huntsman deep in the forest (“The Hunt”), Augustus Caesar in ancient Rome (“August”), Marco Polo roaming in the desert (“Soft Places”), Orpheus and Eurydice in the Underworld (“The Song of Orpheus”), Adam & Eve in the Garden of Eden (“The Parliament of Rooks”), and finally Haroun Al Raschid, Caliph of Bagdad (“Ramadan”).It’s hard to easily summarize the disparate stories of this collection.
Though the first seems more like a preface than a fully realized story, I was impressed by every one of the nine short stories in this volume, thus the 5 stars.
While it's true that each is a standalone, some contain themes that seem to comment (reflect?) on each other; or include recurring characters, such as Orpheus, or even characters from the main storyline, such as Lyta and Johanna Constantine.
I discovered another "comment/reflection" as I was, fittingly enough, falling asleep.I was amused by Olethros telling Orpheus that Teleute (Death) has lots of things, although she seldom has much use for them.
Broj po svemu paralelan trećem, više zbirka priča gde je Morfeus epizodni lik nego jedan dug, povezan arc. I to nije loša stvar sa obzirom na kvalitet ovih priča koji po svemu zasenjuje treći broj. Posebno izdvajam Ramadan i The Parliament of Rooks. 5-
(Also, I've edited this review so the only spoiler tags are for later volumes; I haven't said anything about major twists in these stories.)I think this is my favorite of the short story collections, especially for the stories "Thermidor," "Orpheus," and "Ramadan." The 9 stories in this volume all focus on a different aspect of history or myth.
(view spoiler)[This is a repeated theme in Sandman, but clearly it can’t solve everything; the story ends with Orpheus, restored to Naxos, asking Johanna to let his father know he misses him.
A wonderful pallet cleaner of little tales that build the world.World: The art is just as beautiful as the rest of the series, so good.
I like the characters we meet and Dream showing up and the interactions are just brilliant, then we get the son and the Greek myths and it's fun.
Fantastic.Story: Little tales that were character based and a step back from grand arcs makes it a fresh nice palate cleaner.
Then we get the nice little tale of Dream's past and his family and it's poetic and beautiful, I don't want to spoil it.
This relates the tale of a famous king in Baghdad named Haroun Al Raschid, who wishes to give up his city to Dream.Like the third volume of the “Sandman” series, “Dream Country,” this is basically a collection of miscellaneous tales that detail the adventures that Dream and his siblings have with dealing with other people’s dreams and is not technically apart of the major story that was presented in “Preludes and Nocturnes,” “The Doll’s House,” “Season of Mists” and “A Game of You.” Neil Gaiman never ceases to amaze me with his talented writing and brilliant retelling of classic fairy tales and myths.
"A veces, te despiertas. A veces, te mata la caída. Pero hay una tercera alternativa: a veces, cuando te caes, vuelas"
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
In this sixth book of the Sandman series, Gaiman takes a brief pause from the main storyline.
Compared to earlier books, this is not as dark or bleak, and Gaiman has dusted the stories within with a touch of whimsy, but they still have depth and the ability to make you think.
Some are based in America, but he travels time and the world in the tales, with Morpheus appearing in some of them.Having read some of the others, I didn’t feel that it was as strong, but he picks up on the dreams of the characters all the way through the stories.
Like volume 3 this part also consists of short stories from several different authors where Sandman himself is more or less secondary character.Stories in this collection where lot better than those in volume 3, which I thought was low point of the series.It's definitively not as good as volume 2 or 4 but still worthy read for fans of series.
The Ramadan arc was wow, just wow. Still, not enough Morpheus in this volume. 4.95.
The last chapter, "Ramadan." Gets 5 stars though. A nice stand alone tale with great art and design by P. Craig Russell.
3.5
Hairless boy Fables revealed...
Von den in diesem Band erzählten Geschichten gefielen mir sehr die über den amerikanischen Kaiser (auch wenn Anlass ein Geschwisterdisput auf dem Rücken dieses Mannes ist) und die um Harun al Raschid (Erzähl- und Illustrationsstil und das Ende), sehr berührt hat mich in ihrer Tragik "Der Gesang des Orpheus" (auch wenn die Darstellung zum Teil drastisch war; ich hätte zudem diesen Gesang im vorliegenden Band vor der Geschichte um Lady Constantine platziert).
Sandman: Fables and Reflections is a collection of stories that are at best loosely connected.
My least favorite was Soft Places but I still liked it which is just an indicator of how good this series and volume is.
One story connects to another through the way of Morpheus’ son Orpheus and his stories are both really awesome even if that inane cursive script is hard to read.Sandman is good, very good, really good.
You should read it, because it’s good.
“Sometimes you wake up. Sometimes the fall kills you. And sometimes, when you fall, you fly.”  I like some stories a bit better than others, but most of them were as magical and lovely as usual.
Eh, I kind of zoned out during this one.
