https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31721.Leaf_Storm_and_Other_Stories
- Gabriel Garcia Marquez: El Manifesto (Bogotá, 1977)Leaf Storm (1955) is the story of a colonel, a man of accepted aristocratic background, who finds himself in opposition with the town because he holds firm to the obligation of burying his friend, the Belgian doctor.
García Márquez has also borrowed a plotline similar to Sophocles' Antigone, where Antigone finds opposition to burying her brother.Leaf Storm is García Márquez's first novel and, like his subsequent novels, it is built on memories of his childhood and his birth town of Aracataca, the model for Macondo.
i will read anything marquez writes......grocery list, doodles, short story, novel.....
He didn’t just have a unique and powerful way of writing, he also had a unique and powerful way of seeing the world around him.I am also reading Gabriel Garcia Marquez, A Life by Gerald Martin.
A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings may still be my favorite story, but the entire book got under my skin.
The leaf trash are the elements of the population that the storm blows into town, leaving the residents already there feeling like outsiders.This is presented in the prologue.
قسمتی از کتاب:«باور کن سرهنگ،من منکر خدا نیستم.من از تصور اینکه خدا هست درست همان اندازه آشفته می شوم که فکر کنم خدا نیست.به همین دلیل ترجیح می دهم که درباره اش فکر نکنم»با اینکه اون طنز همیشگی و دوس داشتنی نویسنده تو این کتاب دیده نمیشد،ولی همچنان برام دوس داشتنی بود.:)
من از تصور اینکه خدا هست، درست همان اندازه آشفته می شوم که فکر کنم خدا نیستبه همین دلیل ترجیح می دهم درباره ی آن فکر نکنم
I liked every single story in this book. Every story made me feel simultaneously desperate and thrilled. I love the unabashed embracing of myth and mystery, the adventurous use of language (like in "The Last Ghost Ship," a six-page story constructed of a single sentence and only one period), and the unflinching examination of the human condition. I don't know how Garcia Marquez does it, but I am so glad he does.
داستانهای: «توفان برگ»، «زیباترین مرد مغروق جهان»، «مردی بسیار پیر با بالهای بسیار بزرگ»، «بلکمان خوش قلب»، «فروشنده معجزات»، «آخرین سفر کشتی ارواح»، «گفتگوی ایزابل با خود به هنگام تماشای باراد در ماکوندو»، «نابو سیاه پوستی که فرشتگان را در انتظار میگذاشت»ا
There is Col. Aureliano Buendia, although as someone who's written a recommendation letter.The novella is intense spread out over 30 minutes, but using that time to trace back the history of the characters and how they've come to be or in a few cases, not to be, in that room with the dead body.The short stories are surreal, and have his typical supernatural elements.
It's interesting to read short stories on a set of characters placed at different points.
And you see more of that in the shorter story where she can't ever place his voice even though he's apparently sitting right beside her.
I absolutely adore Gabriel Garcia Marquez's stories, and it was The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World that I first read. After that, I read The Very Old Man with Enormous Wings, and I was hooked. Marquez's use of language established perfectly understandable images that portrayed just what the story was trying to convey. I can't wait to read the rest of his stories.
These are such beautiful stories. Garcia Marquez had such an honest tone in his writing and the stories in this collection are no exception. My favorite was the tale of the ghost ship with its fantastic one sentence narrative. I'm never going to tire of reading the great books of Garcia Marquez.
Marquez has a very particular way that carries you further into his world of fantasy and solitude, which in turn, takes me further into my own world. Some of his best short stories are in this collection.
This is one of my favorite collections, primarily because it includes the story, "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings". That story has been one of my favorites since I was young.
I particularly enjoy García Márquez in short segments, which is why I find all of his short stories to be absolutely amazing...particularly if one has lived in or visited South America.
I had previously read three other of his books - One Hundred Years of Solitude, Love in the Time of Cholera, and Chronicle of a Death Foretold - and each time came away feeling as though I didn't understand why people enjoyed his work so much.
For some reason, I was also better able to appreciate the beautifully descriptive and artfully crafted language that he used - and it truly is a work of art.
I think I will read more of his short story work and then perhaps revisit some of the longer works I'd previously castigated.
... I asked him "Tell me something, doctor. Do you believe in God?"... "That's hard to say", he said."But doesn't a night like this make you afraid? Don't you get the feeling that there's a man bigger than all of us walking through the plantations while nothing moves and everything seems perplexed at the passage of that man?"... "I really don't think any of that bothers me, colonel... What bothers me is that there's a person like you capable of saying with such certainty that he's aware of that man walking in the night".
Leaf Storm and Isabel's Monologue were both great insights into preliminary versions of A Hundred Years of Solitude. The rest of the short stories were hit and miss, though I particularly enjoyed The Old Man With Enormous Wings and The Handsomest Drowned Man
The stories are: The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World, A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings, Blacaman the Good, Vendor of Miracles, The Last Voyage of the Ghost Ship, The Monologue of Isabel Watching It Rain in Macondo, and Nabo.The pièce de résistance of the collection is this novella in which Macondo, the fictional town which Gabo created as a setting for some of his works, appeared.
This being the first appearance of Macondo, Gabo gave his readers a peek at would eventually become One Hundred Years of Solitude.The stories were also very good but two that stood out were The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World and A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings.
The Picador edition of Leaf Storm I read is translated from Spanish by Gregory Rabassa.The book takes its name from the novella that appears first in the book, followed by six other short stories.
The Leaf Storm walks through the thoughts of three people: an old man, his middle-aged daughter and her small son on a hot noon in the fictional town of Macondo in 1909.
As these three people sit in the doctor’s dusty old house preparing his body for burial, they take a long walk through the years of their lives.
The last story Nabo is about a stablehand who enters into a coma.Leaf Storm is a comfortable introduction to Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1982, and has written One Hundred Years of Solitude (which I'll be reading with my book club this year), and Love in the Time of Cholera.
In less than a year it sowed over the town the rubble of many catastrophes that had come before it, scattering its mixed cargo of of rubbish in the streets."Leaf Storm is a novella about the death and funeral of an unpopular man in a small Columbia village.
I think it goes without saying that Gabriel Garcia Marquez, recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature, is a modern master and this can be seen in Leaf Storm And Other Stories (1955).
The centerpiece of this collection, Marquez's first major work, is the novella "Leaf Storm" about a man forsaken by a town and another man coming to terms with his promise of having having him buried despite his pariah status.
The atmosphere of the story is what sticks with the reader-the invented world of Marquez stars in the long tale.
I prefer Marquez in a longer form, where his vision of the human world layered with magical folklore has more space to develop, to find an even balance between surreal happenings and real human feeling.
But it is also the only piece in the story that approached the point of being satisfyingly developed to me.
So, I am sorry to say that like the village of Macondo and unlike One Hundred Years of Solitude, most of my memories of this book will soon be carried off with the wind.
I found the first story in this book, in which Garcia Marquez is strict in his regulation of narrative information, to be a test of patience.
There is little conventional exposition as narrative events are represented in fragmented and oblique form, focalized through the consciousnesses of various characters.
Moreover, there are frequent flashbacks, so in addition to interpreting the characters' impressions for the narrative events from which they took their shape, the reader has also to disentangle representations of past events from those taking place in the narrative's present.There is little of the "magic realism" here of the kind for which Garcia Marquez is known.
These stories, with a few exceptions, represent realistic events.
This is Marquez's first novel, finished in 1955, and introduces us to Macondo.
Marquez was heavily influenced by William Faulkner, so he uses shifting points-of-view, the child, the daughter, and the grandfather.
There is some overlap in the recounting of events and time also shifts, suggesting that the past is very much alive in the present, just as Faulkner maintains.
This is a serious novel and, for me, lacks the humour of Marquez's later work.
The people of Macondo are not a welcoming lot and seem to be part of the destructive force of the storm.
The leaf storm is a colonial metaphor for the social, cultural and economic transformation of Macondo following the arrival of the banana company. Told through three monologues: the colonel, his daughter Isabel and her son, we get very different perspectives. The ethical dilemma posed by the doctor who refuses to treat his patients though, for me did not trigger the kind of emotional response which some readers felt so my experience of this novel was flat :(
In "Leaf Storm" Marquez subverts Antigone, making his protagonist an upstanding man who promises to bury the town of Macondo's long- and universally-detested doctor before realizing why everyone else in Macondo would rejoice at the sight of the doctor's desecrated, unburied corpse. With deftly handled multiple narrators, insights into how children make sense of death, and sublime language, "Leaf Stories" is a standout novella. Go Gabriel Garcia Marquez!
Monologue of Isabel Watching it Rain in Macondo
perfect!
“Leaf Storm and Other Stories” is a collection of short stories by Nobel winner Gabriel García Márquez, translated by Gregory Rabassa.
At half the length of the entire book, I found “Leaf Storm” to be a hard read, as each section of the book his part of the story told from a different character’s perspective.
To me it was a very drawn out story that wasn’t worth it.
I don’t know how much of the story was lost in translation.
This story made the book worth reading to me.
I only bought the book because being in the Gabriel Garcia Marquez center in Bogota it seem only right to purchase at least one of his books. The selection was dismal with just 2 or 3 titles and none of them the well known classics. What is that about? Short stories are not really my cup of tea and these even less so. The longer story, The Leaf Storm, seemed incomplete with missing ends. The others were confusing or at worst, just plain dull.
link: دانلود کتاب صوتی توفان برگ و چند داستان دیگر از سایت آوانامه   link: دانلود کتاب صوتی توفان برگ و چند داستان دیگر از سایت آدیولیب
