https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/362002.A_Land_Remembered
The book follows the trials of three generations of a family, as they wrestle the elements and slowly emerge from a hand-to-mouth existence to become wealthy but still simple rancher/farmers.
There wasn't a single chapter that didn't include some major stress or catastrophe, but the characters barely reacted to any of it, beyond a "gosh, we'll get through this somehow." The story line was plenty exciting, but with such flat, puppet-ish characters, it was difficult to develop any sympathy for the family as they faced repeated challenges and losses.
I really didn't want to read this book.
A heart-rending account of a family's struggle to settle north and central Florida?
Sigh.
And I'm one of the few native Floridians (third generation, I should say)!
But I finally cnsented and am so glad I did.
The characters and their stories are engaging from the start.
With vivid imagery and great respect for all our state once was, The author spins a historical tale of generations of settlers and entrepreneurs.
Should be required reading for every fool developer looking to bulldoze the last orange grove for another soulless housing development.
I'm giving this book 4 stars, but I'm being a bit generous.
Especially the end was rushed, unfortunately.
If you liked John Jakes's Bicentenial series, this is similar, but follows 3 generations of a family across one century in Florida from the Civil War to the 1960's.It's an excellent look at Florida in the latter half of the 19th century & at some of the pioneers who settled there, what they lived on, endured and how one family made its fortune.
Usually, it was pretty good, but when it got bad, it was really bad.- The end felt very rushed.
I was less surprised when over the years I heard of various plans to drain parts of the swamp in the name of progress.One might read John D McDonald's books to understand the blight of modernity on the state, for the most part the more southern parts in and around Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale, Miami and the Keys.
Then they discover the cattle that have bred in the wild (left by the Spanish so long ago that cattle easily outnumber the settlers for a long period of time.) Indeed, the story of this family is the consummate oversimplification: they struggle but give everyone a chance, including native Americans and a black ex-slave.
But A Land Remembered deserves all those five stars for its warm, compelling, almost operatic story of generations who shaped Florida.It begins before the Civil War, when Tobias and Emma MacIvey journey into Florida wilderness to begin a better life than they were able to carve out in Georgia.
And you, reader, will feel these, especially the tragedy.Along the way, the reader learns much about how Florida became today's third-most-populous state, a mix of cracker wariness and naked ambition leavened with a pinch of concern about the land and the water.
Anyone who wants to know this state must read A Land Remembered, probably more than once.
Eeeeehhhhhh a multigenerational soap opera wrapped in the guise of historical fiction from the ever riveting perspective of white dudes.
It was neat to read about places I know, places I've been to, and to compare the descriptions of how they were many years ago, back when Florida was still wild, to the built-up developed places they are today.Frankly, it saddens me, and I'm an urban dweller who thinks that backwoods living is having to drive two miles to the grocery store.That being said, this book is basically an anti-"progress" essay with a story wrapped around it.
And, it seems, not a shortage of gruesome deaths and vigilante justice.The best part about this book is the way that simple people living an honest life find success through persistence and hard work.
Smith writes his novel “A Land Remembered.” Before the Civil War’s outbreak, the MacIvey family flees to Florida in hopes to find a better life.
Smith captures Florida’s roots by taking his readers on a journey with fictional family from long ago.
Living off the Florida scrub, the MacIvey family eventually resorts to cattle drives as a lucrative way to make a living.
Illuminating the Florida that once was, and taking the reader on its transformation to the Florida we know today, Smith carves into his work a certain ruggedness only a true Floridian can appreciate.
I'm choosing four stars mostly because of the personal/family interest. My great grandparents (two sets) were in North and South Florida, respectively, and two grandmothers grew up in those areas, plus one grandfather as a teen working his uncle's cattle operation in the Miami area, and our family has had strong roots throughout the state all my life, and I love the landscapes of "old Florida." The writing quality and the story are more of a three-star effort, but I highly recommend this book to all who love Florida or want to know some of its history.
A Land Remembered is a simple story really.
It's the kind of book to keep on the night stand and pick up and put down one chapter at a time, for each chapter is a separate story, really, summing up one phase in the development of the land we now know as Florida.
From pre-civil war times to modern-day South Beach, it's all there--a story of the land, the people, the struggle, the triumphs.
Don't expect a literary masterpiece.
Do expect to be charmed, informed and humbled.
They believe it is an excellent historical novel set in mid-19th and earl 20th century Florida.
It is almost entirely focused on the mid-Florida cattle industry developed by three generations of the MacIvey family.With the exception of the MacIvey clan, almost all 19th Century southerners and most northerners were extremely prejudice.
Their good fortune results from excellent relations with both races.
Smith uses this to his advantage, but that was not the way it was.The male heads of the family in each generation are well drawn.
All other characters are stereotypes.Smith's story is about the 19th Century.
Three generations of MacIvey men struggle to survive and thrive in the Florida wilderness among disasters of both the natural and man-made kind.My mother-in-law insisted that I read this, basically because "it's so interesting to read about the history of the area" where she lives.
I just kept turning pages to find out what was going to happen next to the MacIvey family.But the writing, especially the dialog, just wasn't all that great for me.
The book starts off with Sol MacIvey as an old man in 1968, thinking about how much Florida has changed in his lifetime.
Audible version: I wanted to learn a bit about my chosen state's history, and this was a great historical fiction choice! Telling the story of the McIvey's from 1858 to 1968, it taught me a lot I didn't know about Florida, and in a pleasant way.
It is a FABULOUSLY informative book about the beginnings of Florida as a civilized place.
I really enjoyed the information on the Florida frontier life, the real estate boom of the twenties, the Native American life, etc.
I gave it a three (and again, I wish I could give a 3 1/2), because he's just not a great writer in my opinion, when it comes to character development and I feel like he rushed the ending.
As a happy native Floridian, I have to say that pre-1920s, I would not have been able to hack Florida.
Entertaining historical fiction set in Florida mainly in the latter half of the 19th century.
I very much enjoyed the story of the first generation of the family and the hardships they had to endure and overcome just to eke out a living in the Florida wilderness.
Unfortunately the second generation story had a bit too much romance which was tiresome and the third generation story, which hit the 20th century, was shoe-horned into the last couple of hours of the audio.
The narration by George Guidall was excellent, as usual, and I would recommend the audio over the written book since the actual writing style was a bit pedestrian.
I admit..
I thought this was a true story when started reading it.
This book came highly recommended from everyone I knew that read it.
Plus, I am a native Floridian that has family that lived in Big Cypress swamp country.
I'm very familiar with Florida's environments and wildlife.
I am usually not a fan of fiction, but I have to agree with the 5 or 6 people I know that read it ....
This was a great book.
I actually read it twice.
As a 37 year Florida native that dislikes reading fiction, this book was a great read.
This was a book club selection. I can tell you that I would never have picked this book up if it hadn’t been for book club. Once I started reading, however, I was oddly drawn in with strong memories of reading So Big and The Grapes of Wrath in my youth. The characters were interesting. My only complaint was the excessive detail for all the cattle drives. Ugh. Also, I wonder, is the author not a fan of women? Did they all have to meet such grisly fates?
I finally read this book under a perfect storm: half a dozen personal recommendations within a year, acquiring a free copy, heading up a Florida book club, and the author's death.
I think I was just old enough to not have it assigned as reading when I was in school.This book lives up to its hype.
I found it an easy and interesting read with a great view of Florida Cracker life.
Sol's adult life becomes a blur compared to Tobias and Zech; from the point he takes center stage the rest of the book feels like a sad extended epilogue.Definitely worth the read.
I'm almost ashamed to admit that as a native Floridian, I have just now read this novel.
I have such a greater appreciation for my home state.
I don't drive down a Florida highway anymore without imagining the way it used to look.
The novel follows the MacIvey family through three generations from the Civil War to the 1960s.
The writing is simple, yet effective.
Each chapter is written cinematically.
This novel has every literary device a teacher needs and should be a compulsory read for every high school student in Florida.This novel is in my top five.
Read this the fall of 2010; actually finished it while visiting daughter in FL; all the info about the history of FL really made the trip so much more interesting. A very earthy book about just how hard it was to be a settler and to survive. Also left me with a sad feeling about all that has been lost in the process of "civilization". Have passed this one on to many friends and they have loved it too. A friend from work first suggested it to me; she said it was "the best book I ever read".
A secular ‘Work and the Glory’ meets ‘Little House on the Prairie’ I really enjoyed the authors ability to bring ‘Old Florida’ alive to me. His descriptions of the cattle drives, orange smells, and critters seemed on point and easy to escape to. The progression (or maybe regression) of the male protagonist was pretty interesting. Is seemed like Tobias could have been the conscious of Mother Teresa while his grandson, Sol, was giving a money-loving Donald Trump pointers. All and all, a great book that I would recommend to anyone with interest in the history of Florida.
I can truely say this is one of the best if not the best book I have ever read. It is the kind of book that you will read every word because you do not want to miss a thing. Patrick D. Smith paints a story with his words that captures the true life of 3 generations of a pioneer family in the wilds of Florida in the mid-eighteen hundreds through the next 100 years. Their struggles and triumphs tells a story of courage and a sense of family.I highly recommend this book as a must read for all ages.
I can truely say this is one of the best if not the best book I have ever read. It is the kind of book that you will read every word because you do not want to miss a thing. Patrick D. Smith paints a story with his words that captures the true life of 3 generations of a pioneer family in the wilds of Florida in the mid-eighteen hundreds through the next 100 years. Their struggles and triumphs tells a story of courage and a sense of family.I highly recommend this book as a must read for all ages.
Great introduction to 19th century Florida history. A bit romanticized though.
I loved this book so much. I highly recommend, especially if you live in Florida. It has been a long time since I have ugly cried from a book and I did several times with this one.
Fascinating book!
Good to read because of the setting of Florida's history but disappointing in character development.
Both my husband and I enjoyed reading this book. We recognized so many landmarks mentioned in it, and learned even more about the history of our state, Florida. It was easy to read, yet compelling.
One of my favorite stories of all time. This is the second time I have read this book and this time I purchased my own copy.
Dialect is off but it’s a good tale. Historical fiction
One of the best Historical Fiction novels I have ever read...(waiting for the "movie"!) LOVED IT!
