https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61992.The_Dream_Master
Anyhow, Charles Render is a Shaper, in other words he is a psychiatrist who treats people by entering their dreams and changing them for the benefit of the patients.
In fact he is so interested he forgets that the altered dream can affect the Shaper in charge as well.
Zelazny is the master of prose which is clearly shown by this novel yet again.
The ideas were novel at the time of writing, if somebody else wrote something similar before I am not aware of it.
He also managed to pack a lot of ideas into a very limited space: my copy has a little over 100 pages.
O pripovedačkoj genijalnosti Rodžera Zelaznija zaista je izlišno govoriti.Jednom rečju,savršenstvo.
" To konstatira glavni lik, ali vjerujem da je o tome razmišljao sam Zelazny, možda na nekom dobrom šitu, jer je malo kasnije napisao ovaj opis:"Klizili su kao dvoje galebova; veći plesač u boji poliranog antracita a manji u boji mesečevog zraka koji kroz otvoreni prozor pada na krojačku lutku omotanu svilom." Zato volim 60-te, kako u glazbi, tako i u SF-u - tada se moglo slobodnije izražavati, a očito da su opojne droge i psihodelici pozitivno utjecali na kreativnost kreativnih ljudi.
I don’t know why this one is largely under the radar. Imaginative, nicely written, vision of the future which isn’t so wrong -love the dog.But is there anybody who has read this and understands the ongoing part of the man walking along the road who ends up killing himself? Is this Render? Is this how he escapes being trapped in another person’s dream? Is everything that happens in the book a dream except for this part of it?rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
The Dream Master is a classic Nebula Award winning novel that isn't as well-remembered as it should be. Perhaps it's been overshadowed by Lord of Light and the Amber books... it's a moving, well-written piece, and deserves a wider current audience.
Did anyone else think of this classic 60s SF novel when they watched Inception? I certainly did.
What's remarkable is when two or more persons independently make extraordinary claims which are subsequently verified in the sense of being shown to correlate to some objectively shared experience.To give an example taken from the literature: Two women, strangers to one another, report to their psychotherapists, also strangers, of being abducted, of being teleported into a craft inhabited by nonhuman intelligent beings, held against their wills, subjected to examinations, then returned.
This story leaves me very confused. It's not that I totally disliked it, but I'm also not sure that I could follow till the end what was going on. It probably would help to discuss it with other readers.
Charles Render is a Shaper, a type of psychiatrist who adminsters therapy via sort of a psychic virtual reality. Enter Eileen Shallot, a woman blind from birth who wants to be a Shaper and wants Render to teach her to see.I actually don't have a lot to say about this one. While I liked it, it was a little on the meh side of the Zelazny spectrum. I really liked the Shaper concept and the talking dogs but didn't really care about the characters.
The novel being partially set in various dreams that Render has created does allow for some memorable scenes and there’s also plenty of imagination shown elsewhere in the world Zelazny describes, particularly memorable is a guide dog with an enhanced intellect and some genetic modifications allow him some ability to speak whose personality is an intriguing mix of canine and human.
There is some good characterisation in here, particularly of Render and his patient although the supporting characters mostly don’t get much depth.Overall, I’d say this was a good book but not one of Zelazny’s best works, compared to a masterpiece like “Lord of Light” it feels as if it wasn’t quite as good as it should have been.
I'm not sure if that's because the novella ("He Who Shapes") is better than the novel (The Dream Master), or if the second read-through made it easier, or what.
It probably also helps that I read the "Notes" section at the end of the story BEFORE I started reading it, so that really helped me understand some of what I'd read in The Dream Master.This story just got a lot higher on my list of Zelazny awesomeness.
Ich habe aber deutlich was gegen diesen künstlichen Kryptizismus, mit dem manche Autoren versuchen, Pseudotiefe in ihre Werke einzubringen - ich nenne das den Morrison-Effekt, der nur darauf abzielt, den Leser mit offenem Mund vor der Erudiertheit des Geistesgewitters zurückzulassen, anstatt ihm die gleiche Komplexität in einer lesbaren, nachvollziehbaren Form auszuarbeiten.
Zum Glück gibt es genug Beispiele, die zeigen, dass schwierige Plots auch in lesbarer Form darstellbar sind, anstatt ihre Komplexität wie eine Monstranz vor sich herzutragen.Leider fällt ein Großteil von "The Dream Master" nicht in diese letztere Kategorie, sondern verliert sich in - ja, was?
Quizás los diálogos eran algo forzados (leí una traducción bastante mal editada, quizás eso no ayudó) y se pecaba un poco de "veamos cuantas referencias puedo meter por parrafo" pero aún así funcionaban o por lo menos funcionó para mí.
Tanto en el plano profesional como personal, los personajes tratan de controlar sus psicosis y usarlas para su beneficio pero encuentran que una emoción es eso, algo imposible de controlar.
Algo le faltó para ser de mis favoritos de todos los tiempos y siento que hubo partes donde la escritura no estaba a la altura pero lo recomiendo a cualquiera que quiera leer ciencia ficción interesante.
It makes me feel like a ape trying to figure out sarcasm, to put it simply.You see, even though I clearly missed a lot of references to a lot of things, I feel I did understood more than less of what was going on, but some parts I just didn't understand.
Even if you don't understand something, he makes you just go with it and days after you get this delayed epiphany and all is a bit clearer.The book deals with a "neuroparticipant therapist" name Charles Render.
If this book were not a re-read, if I had come into it completely new, it would have been a 3 to 3.5 for me.
I remembered comparing it to the Kafka-esque descriptions of lacquered shells in The Lathe of Heaven, the otherness of nature and how it is molded.
Because this is a book that can work like Render's machine, and it has left its mark when so many other novels are completely forgotten; although this mark may be malleable and refitted with a new awareness, it lingers the same way a particularly memorable dream will retain flashes and remnants even when you wake.
The fact that it can be construed as circular (and there are some good arguments to this effect) really adds to my enjoyment of the story, and it's something that can really only be appreciated under certain conditions (which is one of the reasons I rated it shy of perfection): * you have to read it more than once to catch it * you have to be familiar with some of the symbolic imagery, such as kabalism * familiarity with a couple different versions of Tristan & Isolde, since no one version contains everything alluded to hereI also think the story was stronger (more streamlined, maybe) in short form, as He Who Shapes.
Didn't add much to the final product, besides making it longer.Anyway, it's an awesome story with a good, downer ending.
Terribly anti-climactic and contrived plot. Paper thin characters. Cringeworthy romance. Typos and errors galore. The only salvageable aspect is the writing itself, which pushed me to get through this book as fast as I possibly could. Not quite sure how this won a Nebula Award....
This book talks about the some of neuron-technology in the future, which is the kind of the technology to solve the some of the hidden psychological problem in the people's mind by modifying people's dream.
That's because that the people without humanity would not care about any body else except their selves, so with the help of high technology, they would have been able to harm others more easily in order to achieve his goal.
So as the development of the technology, we should also keep humanity in our mind, so we would not use the great technology to do the bad thing, and not to harm other people.
The main story deals with Render, a psychologist who has become known as a pioneer in the new technology of "Dream Therapy," in which he uses a holodeck type machine to enter people's dreams and control them, constructing and deconstructing (in every sense of the philosophical term) until the underlying causes, as Freudian as they may be, are exposed and can be dealt with outside of the sleep state.
He deals with the usage of stories, of myths, to recreate the heart-rendering sorrows that mankind has lost, and the sub-culture of role-playing that has surfaced so that man can actually face that danger, instead of being lost to banality.
At first I thought it was a dream by the main character due to all his "fenris" references...).(** the constant appearance of the big red "exit" button in the final dreams is awesome; one always wonders how the control panel invades in the shaper's dream-consciousness...)(*** when we see eileen at home and she starts having a slightly meltdown, and she references "riscomb" fallign apart (bottom of page 143).
Now we see it was a crazy cover, just like this meltdown by eileen is hidden when the call comes, and just like she acts normal when the dog brings the main character over...
Maybe they just floated over my head when I read them as a young adult, but the endless obscure literary references got increasingly annoying, and I kept wondering what they had to do with the story.
what happened to the story?Three quarters of the way through the book, I kept wondering when something interesting was going to happen.
but it did not pan out that way (at least for me).I was left befuddled, speed-reading through the mishmush to try to find the story I remembered.Maybe it is best to leave those books I read long ago alone, as my perspective has changed...
It's like Zelazny had just read a book on psychotherapy and wanted to impress his readers with his vast knowledge of the subject.
And it reads like a short story stretched into a novel.It's about a a future psychiatrist who can enter people's dreams and give them therapy.
There's a bunch of dream sequences and other strange goings on as well.Apparently people who like psychological stories really loved this in 1965.
Maybe it was just the idea that appealed as entering someones' dreams would have been pretty exciting back then.Basis for the film "Dreamscape" in 1984 with Dennis Quaid.
His latest case is unique: Eileen Shallot, a blind psychologist who wants to become a Shaper herself but must be cured of her sight-neurosis before she can begin.Being a book about dreams, this book had plenty of dream imagery, whole sections that didn't seem to fit into the main storyline, but which made sense in their own dream-logic.
The end was fittingly odd and suffused with dream-logic as Render's fears started infusing his sessions with Eileen leading to a very strange and, for me, unsatisfying, ending, although it fits with the themes of the book very well.
An interesting premise with a weak execution in a needlessly fragmented narrative.
It wasn't a long novel but I felt that it would have either worked better as a short story or fleshed out in more depth as a longer novel.Surprisingly, this book one a nebula award (or so the blurb on the cover claims) which just goes to show that winning an award is not always a good indicator of quality.
Despite its award this is not one of Zelazny's well-remembered novels and, as far as I am concerned, for good reason; it's simply not that good.
Particularly disappointing when you know the author is capable of so much better.
Myth and psychology intertwine in Zelazny's The Dream Master. In the future, Charles Render, a neuroparticipant therapist- a Shaper- renders mental landscapes for his patients to explore their psyche. Which, of course, is the most dangerous terrain there is. By mixing the trauma of his characters with their realities and the underlying mythic themes which drive the human experience, Zelazny crafts a unique novella. A story about how easy it is to get lost in our trauma.
3.5So I've just finished this, and I'm still mulling it over really. As always with Zelazny it was a very interesting read, which I did enjoy. It, however, was very spasmodic. It felt like so many vignettes, which might have been the idea, but I'm not quite sure why he chose to do it that way. They were interesting, but I'm not sure how that contributed to the story. Perhaps could have had a stronger ending, but I'm not really complaining.
Jako dobro. Vidi se odakle je Nolan uzeo ideju za Inception, samo veoma pojednostavljenu. Ovo djelo je višeslojna tragedija ispunjena referencama na mitove i psihoanalizu, lagani pad u ludilo...
This book was an interesting read, however the ending didn't feel complete to me. I also noticed several typos in this edition.
They "go into" a person's mind and create a dream-like state that helps them to deal with whatever problem which they are dealing.A blind girl comes to the doctor and wants him to help her become a dream master as well.
The problem is if the doctor isn't careful, he could end up damaging his own mind more than he helps her.The entire book has an entire dream-like quality to me.
I pretty much guessed what would happen in the main story from almost the beginning but I kept getting sidetracked by other story threads (and most of those had no real resolution).
Det finns väl egentligen inget jag kan säga som jag inte har sagt, flera gånger, tidigare.
"The Dream Master" var från början en novell med det oändligt mer lockande namnet "He Who Shapes" som plockade hem en Nebula åt Zelazny.
Handlingen är kort och går ut på att huvudkaraktären Charles Render är en slags psykoterapeut som kan bygga drömmar åt sina patienter för att på så viss lösa deras problem.
Det händer inte så mycket, egentligen, och handlingen ligger ofta bara och puttrar under ytan.
Den var mer en ursäkt än något annat, känns det som.
