https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262050.Serendipity
Just because I actually remember it means it was worth a five star. My love of big eyed animals began with the Cosgrove books.
OMG the memories! My love for this book comes from an experience, even though it IS a cute book with striking illustrations. When I was in grammar school, I had been assigned to read this book to a little boy. He wasn't much younger than me, but it had been a great memory and I never forgot the book because of it.Now that I have my own copy as an adult, I love the story itself about finding your purpose, even if you don't know where you came from :)
Serendipity, Stephen Cosgrove
But, they are very splendid and still hold up today.
They are very economically bound and I am surprised that the copies I obtained from my local library are not only original 1974 editions, but they are very well preserved.I first read Wheedle on the Needle last year, which is something of a cult favorite up in the Pacific Northwest, it inspired a real life mascot which followed the Seattle Supersonics during the 1970's & 80's.still remembered fondly even today.
In any event, these little books are simply splendid.
To me, this is a classic among children's books. I loved it as a child, and I'm nostalgic over it as an adult. Cosgrove creates wonderful stories for children that combine fantastical characters with meaningful lessons. The illustrations are absolutely fabulous and could capture the imagination of any child. I highly recommend this and the rest of Cosgrove's books.
Oh Serendipity books, how I love thee.These along with the Whisper the Winged Unicorn series were my favorites as a child. Love them. They always had such great messages. There was so much warmth in the stories and the artwork.
Such a cute little book! So fun!!! Perfect for elementary students!!!
This book had such a strong impact on me that I would re-read it long after I was out of the "recommended age group".I got this book - and several others in the series - from a book-by-mail service that my grandparents ordered for me and my younger cousin. We loved them!Not only did I fall in love with this adorable pink sea monster, but I was so proud to learn how to pronounce the book's title - one of the biggest words I knew at the time!
A Greenpeace classic. A young sea serpent is hatched and they name her Serendipity. She helps those who need helping and becomes protector of the seas. I loved when she caused a wave to wash up all the oil and garbage that was floating near an Island back on to the Island dwelllers , maybe they’ll think twice before sending their garbage into the ocean?Very cute pictures with sweet character illustrations . A wonderful book for bedtime and teaching moral responsibilities.
Cosgrove’s books are among my all time favorites. Not only did I love reading the books in this series over and over again, but I still have them to this day! His books are some of the only books I have held onto since childhood. Beautiful stories and illustrations. Love, Love this book and the others in this series that were published by Weekly Reader so many years ago!
I grew up with the whole Serendipity series. I begged my parents to not give them away while I was at college. Alas, they didn't listen, so I will be hunting for them now that I have a baby.
a good childhood memory
Who doesn't love a cute sea monster?
I was so surprised and happy to find Mr Cosgrove's books again!
But a whale helps her and after the story progresses her friends help her see her worth and help her find who she was meant to be and like all of Mr Cosgrove's stories they all have a moral at the end of the story and this one's moral was " Knowing who you really are will bring you happiness."
I'm not going to comment on each individual book by this author but I grew up reading them all as a child.
I have a huge collection of these books, which are mostly out of print.
They were by far my favorite childhood stories and the illustrations are beautiful.
When I look at these books, it is like spending time with a cherised childhood friend.
Some of my favorites include Dragolin, Bangalee, and all the ones about horses (Morgan, Misty, etc.).
Also, there are plenty of good ones for boys (my brother liked them as a child too).
the moral values of the book awe-inspiringnot only for the kids as well for the adultshmmm..
i think serendipity is an isshi イッシー(Loch Ness Monster)serendipity was uncovering her exceptional innerself not usually looking into it...
the core value of the fable is people intend to keep searching for who they are usually ends up not knowing their self more...
sometimes only taking chances gives us opportunity to know your TRUE self.in the end she found herself as well her happiness...she discover her real worthiness she pledge to be the deity of all the sea.and later on known as watatsumi (海神)-the guardian of the sea
The story introduces us to the main character of the series, which is an unknown sea creature born from a mysterious egg resting on an iceberg.
Being one of the first stories there are actually two lessons although like each other book in the series the main one is the one that emphasized.
The only thing I found wrong with this one is that all the fishes were to gather at the Island of Capri.
Amazingly the author included whales and dolphins as fishes when they are actually mammals but fortunately kids aren't as picky with the facts as some of us adults.
Serendipity is the story of a mythical sea dragon.
And whether you're familiar with the book of the brief-lived Japanese anime TV series of the same name (based on the same character) the story line is still the same.
But I won't spoil the plot for you.
It would be more fun for you to read it for yourself.
In any case, Serendipity is one of Stephen Cosgrove's best efforts as a story teller, and one of his most loved stories.
As usual, there is a moral to the story, and one - I'm afraid - that our species is failing to comprehend.
This is a classic little book a lot of people my age had read to them at a young age.
This is the first of a series.'Serendipity' is the story about a large pink sea monster who discovers she has important work to do as guardian of the seas.
The moral is knowing who you really are will bring you happiness.
A lot of the other books in the series cover topics of this nature, they teach kids to deal with everyday situations in the world they live in.
It provides them with positive solutions to difficult problems.
Little Bug often requests this story for bedtime reading. Like all the other Serendipity books by Cosgrove and James the story has a kind of rhythm to it and the illustrations are lovely. This is the origin story of the big pink sea serpent Serendipity, which is the logo featured on all the books. While not my favorite of the Serendipity books we own, it a good story about finding out what you were meant to do.
My dad read all of these books to me growing up. I loved the little rhyme at the beginning and the moral at the end of the story. Terrific stories and illustrations; a multitude of characters to love. I also remember learning to read these books for the first time and struggling with the vocabulary. In particular, I remember getting angry with my brother for telling me the words and not letting me sound them out myself...brothers...
The Serendipity family of books was a treasured part of my childhood. There seemed to be hundreds of these things, all featuring hippyish illustrations of various creatures with heavily-lashed, sad liquid eyes a la the famous Gig “big-eye” paintings. This is the story that gave the series its name. It contains a genuine (if heavy-handed) message against polluting the oceans and mistreating the creatures who live in it.
I read this with my nephew today. Not my typical Friday afternoon reading experience, but it was quite profound: "What am I?" "Who am I?" "Who decides?"
Understandably, this book would no longer be interesting to me because it is a children's/picture book, but when I was 5 or 6, I loved the Serendipity books. At the time, I thought they were the best books I had ever read. For a child, all of those books could transport you to a completely different world.
The Serendipity series always leaves me with a balmy, peaceful (nostalgic) feeling, as though I've just traveled somewhere else where my own world doesn't exist. I know they are just simple little books, but the illustrations and basic storylines create the perfect atmosphere and have the feeling of a fairytale (even though they aren't).
An amazing throwback to my childhood. I used to hoard these books from the library for as long and as often as I could.Serendipity is a sweet tale about a sea serpent finding her place in the world. The book also holds a strong moral for young readers about the importance of environmental stewardship.
Every book in this series is amazing. These books are my first memories of books. My mom used to read them to me from birth onward. I learned to read while reading of Serendipity, Catundra, the Gnome from Nome, etc. I loved every one of them and the illustrations are amazing. Recommend them to everyone, old or young. Fabulous books with great lessons.
The Serendipity series has been a part of my life since they first started being published. As a child the vivid artwork by Robin James and the magic of the story was more than enough to ensnare my imagination. At one point I owned all of the books. Each book contains a "moral" that although present does not become preachy.
This is a book I've had since I was much younger, and it became the source of my favorite word. Serendipity is a young dragon who doesn't know what she is, but she quickly learns what purpose she has in the world. It's a great read to get kids interested in environmental issues.
I have always been one to be conscious of what I am throwing into the ocean, and this book encourages children to do the same.Stephen has a way with incorporating a lot of knowledge into so few pages.
