https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1975169.Oliver_VII
„Samo Mađari mogu da nauče mađarski jezik“, kaže stara mađarska poslovica koju sam preveo sa engleskog.Možda je ovaj jezički fenomen zaslužan što su Antal Serb i njegova dela postala poznata izvan Mađarske tek sedamdeset godina posle autorove smrti.
Nakon što je neko uspeo da njegova dela prevede na druge jezike Antal Serb je, u veoma kratkom roku, postao najtraženiji evropski pisac.
Nešto ranije su prevedeni Putnik i mesečina kao i Legenda o Pendragonu, a sada je pred nama njegovo poslednje delo Oliver VII, napisano i objavljeno tokom Drugog svetskog rata, rata koji će doći glave i samom autoru.Naime, Antal Serb je, osim što je bio predani katolik, bio i jevrejskog porekla.
Having encountered Antal Szerb through his best-known work Journey by Moonlight and its companion piece, the non-fiction travelogue The Third Tower: Journeys in Italy I was initially surprised at the high spirits of this novel, especially since it was written whilst World War II was raging, changing Europe's landscape forever.
At times, I felt that the book was midway between the old-world comedy of P.G. Wodehouse and the more biting satire of Evelyn Waugh Perhaps it is no coincidence that the dialogue in Len Rix's brilliant translation contains a number of Bertie Wooster-ish exclamations, and that it is the appearance of a journalist on the scene (think Scoop) which propels the plot to its upbeat denouement.
Arpad Vicko je sa mađarskog na srpski već preveo dva ključna dela Antala Serba (1901-1945), zaista izvanredne romane Legenda o Pendragonu (prvobitno objavljen 1934.
Nedavno je isti prevodilac za Lagunu preveo i Serbovog Olivera VII, manje poznato delo iz opusa ovog pisca koje je prvi put objavljeno 1943.
Nakon avanturističkog horora (Legenda o Pandragonu) i psihodeličnog putopisa (Putnik i mesečina), Serb je napisao komični roman u stilu šekspirovske komedije zabune.
U pitanju je jedno izuzetno šarmantno i poletno delo, puno humora i zanimljivih preokreta koje je, iako nema zamah prethodna dva romana ovog pisca, vredno čitanja i posedovanja.
Prva knjiga ovog autora, pa nisam znala šta da očekujem od te "mešavine bajke, političke satire i avanturističkog romana". Nisam se razočarala: lako se čita, humora je dosta, ličnosti su jednolične i prozirne ali pritom stavljene u situacije gde je zanimljivo pratiti njihovo koprcanje. Doista ima sličnosti sa dramom-komedijom, ali je ipak prijatnije za čitanje jer je u pitanju proza.Satirični aspekti su uspeli.Tri zvezdice rađe nego četiri jer knjiga ipak nema neke dubine. Ali ni to nije toliko bitno koliko da se radujem drugim knjigama istog autora.
Personajes particulares como el conde de St. Germain, que es un descendiente del conocido conde, o quizás él mismo.
La rapidez de su lectura está dada por la fluidez del texto, que avanza y avanza sin dividirse en capítulos o partes, apenas unos espacios extras en muy pocos momentos de la historia.
Me trajo fuertemente al recuerdo Los árboles mueren de pie de Alejandro Casona que leí de adolescente y quedó bien guardado en el corazón.
Si bien la historia no es exactamente la misma, hay varios momentos en los que se asemejan o te generan los mismos sentimientos.
And yet hindsight informs us that this was the Hungarian author’s last work before he was murdered in a Nazi death camp in the closing year of the Second World War. It’s confusing then that there is no hint of the bloody turmoil in the European theatre of war from Szerb’s tale, one centred on a bloodless coup and laced with humorous misunderstandings and engineered coincidences.Sandoval is a painter who, we soon find, is involved in a plot to dethrone the Catholic King of Alturia, Oliver VII.
Personally I think it reflects one of the great triumphs of the man as an artist that he was able to write such a charming, light and genuinely comic story while under such strain.The story reads like one of Anthony Hope's Ruritanian novels given a gentle comic spin by someone like Oscar Wilde.I can easily imagine the film that could have been made from this novel, it would have starred Alec Guinness as King Oliver and would have been somewhere between 'Kind Hearts and Coronets' and 'The Prince and the Showgirl.' I almost feel the invention of the time machine would be worth the effort just to get the film made correctly!Although the story is largely set in the crumbling palazzos Venice, a city that was evidently very close to Szerb's heart, it focuses on the King and subjects of Alturia.
Esta novela de enriedos (?) sí que es divertida. Un Rey, un pintor, una princesa... todo termina con un final (in)esperado. 5/5 y recomendado para los amantes de la literatura entretenída y humorística.
Sin embargo, Antal Szerb ha inyectado en el Paraíso Opuesto (Original: Oliver VII, 1942) elementos estéticos que lo ubican en esta misma familia que ha encontrado la vía de lo cómico o de lo absurdo para sobrevivir a lo trágico.
Si buscásemos lúdicamente un libro candidato a referente de esta parodia pienso que un buen competidor sería El Príncipe de Maquiavelo o Los Condenados de la Tierra de Franz Fanon (1961).
Creo que este es el núcleo del libro, su centro vital: el poder es ficcional.
Opino que se trata de un libro hilarante para los lectores que rechazamos la solemnidad de cualquier forma de política.
Pedig karácsonyi ajándékként érkezett - s mint kiderült, ennél pompásabb nem is kerülhetett volna a fa alá -, de hát mégis, lesz-e most, agyilag kiszipolyozott állapotomban kellő türelmem a "tiszteletreméltószerbantalhoz", miután a Pendragon legenda is elárulta, az ő esetében a könnyedebb műfaj sem a Júlia-füzetek színvonalát jelenti, sőt...
Pedig nincs benne amúgy semmi, amit ne aknázott volna ki már a lehető legteljesebb mértékben a komédia, mégis, a szerző intellektusával fűszerezve valami igazán kellemes eleggyé áll össze az egész.
Nagyon olvastatja magát, nem bárgyú, és telve vagyon szellemes kiszólásokkal, társadalomkritikai megjegyzésekkel, finom ám célzatos utalásokkal, karakterpárhuzamokkal.
A determinedly whimsical and often uproarious farce in which a Ruritanian monarch, chafing at the restrictions of rank, engineers a coup against himself. Seeking real life in exile, he instead ends up posing as himself. The lack of real jeopardy, the ubiquitous impostors, recall Wodehouse even more strongly than Szerb's debut; would that all revolutions could be this charming. Szerb himself, meanwhile, would die in one of Hitler's camps three years later. And right there you have the gap between the 20th century of dreams, and the bastard era as it really was.
Sólo había leído de Szerb: “La leyenda de los Pendragon” y me había parecido excelente, una mezcla muy lograda entre humor y esoterismo sobre el Grial. Este libro (el último que escribió) continúa con el fino humor, las situaciones disparatadas, medio novela de detectives, media novela de intriga palaciega. Muy buena.
I liked Oliver VII, but for me there were some gaps I would have liked filled in.
About midway in the story Oliver VII isn't on the scene much.
Because of the picture on the cover, previous to reading this novel my impression was that the main character would be an elderly sovereign who decides to stage a fake uprising and coup against himself.
Maybe if the main character had been middle aged to senior and inexperienced about the outside world, the novel would have been more interesting.
Despite giving three stars I would still recommend Oliver VII.
The plot in this book is full of great twists.
As I discovered the author of this book and the great twists his life took, this book became just a little sweeter.
My initial thoughts were that this book is a very enjoyable short read.
After finishing it, and reading the afterword by Len Rix, I realized what an accomplishment of spirit it was for Antal Szerb (A man who grew up christen.
Whose heritage was found to be Jewish.
A story in which the characters come to accept the role they have been allotted in life.
This is from the Translator's Afterword (The excellent translator is Len Rix):"Since life, for [Szerb], is a joyous, miraculous thing, and love not entirely an illusion, the instability of the 'self' is in fact a form of release.
The art that grows from this realization is too benign for satire, too shrewd for sentimentality; it pulls off that almost impossible trick of accommodating a disillusion bordering on cynicism with an amused, indeed delighted, acceptance of the world with all its faults."Rix describes this attitude using Szerb's own term from an earlier book (The Pendragon Legend): "neo-frivolism." I think it's not a bad outlook.
Szerb has been my happiest find of recent years.
La revolución llega a Alturia y Oliver VII, su rey, se ve obligado a abandonar el poder y ocultar su identidad. La revolución, entonces, sirve como punto de partida para una comedia de enredos shakespeariano en el exilio en Venecia. A modo de fábula, la novela desarrolla una crítica de las altas esferas de poder y la sociedad europea de la época. Es una novela divertida, de conspiraciones con más de una vuelta y lindos personajes. Hay una escena CALCADA en Nueve Reinas, pero no creo que haya sido a consciencia.
An entertaining little book on the themes of identity and loyalty. It is however made considerably more poignant by the afterword, which describes Szerb's end. Although brought up as a Catholic, in 1942 he was "reclassified" as a Jew by descent. He had a number of opportunities to leave Hungary, which he turned down due to loyalty to country, family and friends. He was finally murdered in a death camp in 1944.
As Journey by Moonlight has the philosophical and spiritual overtones that reflect the historical timbre of the times, Oliver VII, addresses those same themes in a humor fueled by resignation to the limits of the self and the world we live in.
As if Szerb wanted to reflect and re-examine his own work, Oliver VII is his answer to the questions he posed in Journey by Moonlight.
Oliver VII is a king who is tired of confines of the life he has come to know and decides that the only way to escape is to plan his own coup and run off to Italy.
Playful and, in places, very funny.
An excellent farce; witty and hilarious. A quick read too. Highly recommended.
A wonderfully entertaining farce that is also deeply engaged with the Anglo literary tradition, featuring lovely homages to James's pre-occupations and the Wilde-Waugh etc axis of British silliness. At the same time, it's clever, so you never feel like you're bleaching your brain. Highly recommended.
He is soon recruited by a bunch of con men to pretend that he is Oliver VII because he looks so much like the king in exile.
During this process, he soon learns more about himself and what it is like to be king and what being so really means.
His comment makes me wonder: "His novels (Szerb’s) transform farce into poetry, comic melancholy into a kind of self-effacing grace...Antal Szerb is one of the great European writers.” We all have a right to an opinion.
This is not a working-class story, by any means.
♥Subtlety (suht-l-tee, emphasis on the first syllable)"1.the state or quality of being subtle.2.delicacy or nicety of character or meaning.3.acuteness or penetration of mind; delicacy of discrimination.4.a fine-drawn distinction; refinement of reasoning:the subtleties of logic.5.something subtle.6.History/Historical.
Szerb wrote a story that depicted these kinds of things, specifically the delicate, acute, refined qualities the Random House dictionary described.
the two (this book's subtlety and the meditation) are part and parcel.
In his afterword translator Len Rix emphasizes the poignancy of the fact that this book, which turned out to be Szerb's last before his death at the hands of the Nazis, is "thoroughly genial" and "radiantly benign." Although I dearly wish I could admire this work as much as Rix does, it really fell short of my expectations.
In Szerb's book, King Oliver VII engineers a coup against himself because he hasn't a clue how to stand up to his ministers, and can't quite see the point of being king if he can't rule.
Végignevetgélős, három oldalanként hangosan felolvasós, szellemes regény. Szerb továbbra is szexista, de ilyen történetmesélés mellett e fölött szemet tudtam hunyni. Úgy olvasmányos és végigizgulós a történet, hogy nem gagyi, sőt. Rengeteg filozófiai, irodalmi utalás van benne, gondolom sokat észre se vettem. Tökéletes könnyed olvasmány, imádtam tényleg.
Again, don't judge a book by it's author.
My opinion of this book is completely regardless of Antal Szerb.
OK, it's very different to Journey by Moonlight in many ways, but it does share a humour and irony, it is written in a simpler tone, but not childishly.
Which isn't too bad a thing.
I've read a lot of reviews saying things like "I can't believe this is by the same author"...and they mean it negatively, I disagree, I found it very enjoyable indeed.
You get some authors who write one book over and over, some credit is due to Antal not least for stepping well aside of this.
A delightful light-hearted satire on politics, written shortly before the Hungarian author was killed in a concentration camp. The king of a fictional nearly-bankrupt East European country engineers a revolution which sends him into exile. In Venice he lives incognito and teams up with conmen. He ends up impersonating himself and negotiating his way back to his position as king, to be welcomed by his country, which he saves from financial collapse. This gentle farcical story is superbly translated and you wouldn't know it wasn't originally written in English.
KOBOBOOKSReviewed by The Guardian, The Complete Review, Pechorin's Journal
I liked Antal Szerb's Journey by Moonlight a bunch... but Oliver VII did not measure up to expectations. Oliver VII was a short novel at 170ish pages but not a short read. It was hard to get interested in the idea of a fake country with a fake revolution and a king who pretends to be somebody else, then himself. It is also loaded with satire which sometimes did not make as much sense in today's era. If you want to read a Szerb novel... just grab Journey by Moonlight and stop there.
This was a fantastic book! It was so playful and light and made me laugh. I started reading it without knowing anything about the book or the author, and so naturally I was first surprised by just how light hearted it was, and second by the fact that Szerb wrote this book only two years before his death in a labour camp. Knowing this only makes the book a thing of further wonder.
