https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351248.Men_Against_the_Sea
While the mutineers had enough scruples not to execute Bligh and those who remained loyal to him, the only alternative they had was to set them adrift in the ship’s launch, designed to hold about a half dozen men for short trips.
For those of you who have read Charles Nordhoff and James Hall’s Mutiny on the Bounty, you already know that Bligh and company did make it to Timor in the Dutch East Indies.
The second novel in Nordhoff and Hall’s Bounty Trilogy, Men Against the Sea, tells that story.
The second book, Men Against the Sea – in which William Bligh plays such an heroic part – is told by the acting surgeon of the Bounty, Thomas Ledward.
The thing is that its based on a true story! About seven thousand kilometers, in an open boat! Captain Bligh, I wish I could be like you. One thing I saw here again. People tend to break down and show their utmost character during survivals, thus you can know them. Always interesting.
This novel is based on a true story of Captain Bligh's miracle, whereby he saved the lives of 18 of the 19 men who were marooned with him on the little launch to fend for themselves in the vastness of the South Pacific.Honestly, I enjoyed the "Mutiny on the Bounty" better, but "Mutiny" had it all - adventure, the interaction of cultures, and the legal drama of the mutiny trial.
It is quite interesting.Although "Men against the Sea" is not as good as "Mutiny on the Bounty", it is a riveting story of survival at sea.
though took a little time to finish it but it's fact that captain Bligh is one of the greatest inspirational characters I have ever met while reading books. Awesome classic and yes indeed this is Mr. Captain Bligh has got an awesome personality. The days in sea is the perfect reminder for all , the perfect adventure and struggle.
Masterful writing
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2927397.htmlI read Men Against the Sea during a particularly insomniac night; it's the shortest of the three books, told in the voice of the (historical) surgeon's mate of the Bounty, Thomas Ledward, explaining the epic 41-day, 6,500 km journey taken by Bligh and 18 others in an 7-metre long open boat from the site of the mutiny (near Tofua, one of the Tonga islands) to Kupang at the western end of Timor, avoiding the potentially hostile shores of Australia and other islands - one man was killed at the very beginning, on Tofua.
I saw him then as he deserved to be seen, in a light that transfigured him. Enough. The deepest emotions of the heart are not lightly to be spoken of, and no words of mine could add to the stature of the captain of the Bounty’s launch.
বাউনটি বিদরোহ নিয়ে রচিত টরিলজির ২য় বই। পরথমটার মতই দারুণ উততেজনায় ভরপুর। এই পরবের কাহিনীতে দেখা যায় বিদরোহীরা পুরো বাউনটি দখর করে নেয় এবং কযাপটেন বলাই সহ ১৮ জন নাবিককে অথৈ সমুদরের মাঝে ছোটট একটা নৌকায় ভাসিয়ে দেয়। এই ১৮ জন নাবিক এর লড়াই অভিযান নিয়েই এ পরবের কাহিনী।
বাউন্টি বিদ্রোহ নিয়ে রচিত ট্রিলজির ২য় বই। প্রথমটার মতই দারুণ উত্তেজনায় ভরপুর। এই পর্বের কাহিনীতে দেখা যায় বিদ্রোহীরা পুরো বাউন্টি দখর করে নেয় এবং ক্যাপ্টেন ব্লাই সহ ১৮ জন নাবিককে অথৈ সমুদ্রের মাঝে ছোট্ট একটা নৌকায় ভাসিয়ে দেয়। এই ১৮ জন নাবিক এর লড়াই অভিযান নিয়েই এ পর্বের কাহিনী।
Mutiny on the Bounty is one of my favorite novels. This is a worthy sequel.
A classic tale. I read it when I was in high school and enjoyed it again while we were in the South Pacific recently.
It picks up the story of its captain, William Bligh, following the mutiny and details the 3600 mile voyage across open seas he took with 17 other members of the crew.Nordhoff and Hall turned this adventure story into something more than mere action; it provided an alternative psychological insight into Bligh from the one detailed in the first book of the trilogy.
It is extraordinary how Bligh transforms from a psychotic martinet into a bonafide hero in Men Against the Sea. From being a character of disgust, Bligh becomes a man uniquely suited to the task he faces of saving himself and his 17 member loyal crew.Another turn in this volume from the first book Mutiny on the Bounty, is the change in narrator.
Men Against the Sea is a nice piece of historical fiction, set in 1789, based on the nautical log and personal writings of Captain Bligh chronicling the 3,652 mile voyage 19 men jammed into a 23 foot row-boat.
After weeks of eating nothing but bread and water these guy's hit the Great Barrier Reef off the coast of New Holland (Australia) and go crazy eating clam stew and oysters on the half shell.
After reading all of the sufferings of exposure, hunger, having to continuously bail water from the row-boat, and getting chased by hostile South Sea islanders, I was glad that these guys finally got to rest on a beautiful beach and eat some delicious food.
It took me a while longer to read because I couldn't get into it as much as I did the first.
Also, the first book gave me such a negative view of Bligh that I found it hard to read this point of view which praised Bligh's leadership skills frequently.
However, it was excellently written, short, and despite the fact that they are simply floating at sea for 3/4 of the book, it was never dull (unlike Hemingway's Old Man and the Sea).
I very much look forward to reading the final story of what happened on Pitcairn's Island.
Men Against the Sea is not as good as Mutiny on the Bounty, but how much purchase can you get with 19 men on a 23 foot launch with only 8 inches of freeboard amidships? I seem to be going through a 12 year old boy phase. At any rate, this is a truly amazing and horrifying account of Captain Bligh's heroic sail to safety over 3600 miles of the Pacific Ocean in an open boat. Fascinating, unimaginable, and a true story.
Fascinating account of an open water journey across the south Pacific. Bligh's crew mutiny and send him off the ship with a small crew of faithfuls. An expert seaman, he demonstrates incredible leadership when he pilots this small rowboat and a handful of men across hundreds of miles of open ocean. Their bravery and resourcefulness are surpassed, in my opinion, only by Earnest Shackelton who made a similar trek under conditions even more trying.
You couldn't ask for anymore out of this story. You know exactly what you're going to get, but it delivers. The narration is straightforward and likable, and the perspective seems appropriately representative of the times. I empathized with and admired the men's feelings for the sturdy launch that ferried them along their impossible journey, and felt a sadness once it had to go. I only wish I knew more/could remember some of the many boat and sailing terminology used.
This is volume 2 in the Mutiny on the Bounty trilogy. The first book is the best known of the series but this book is a ripping yarn. It tells the tale of the loyal crew members of Captain Bligh who were set adrift by mutineers. They crossed the Pacific in an open boat crossing 3,600 miles of sea. They faced storms, Natives and starvation. A good old fashioned read.
I read the Bounty Trilogy over and over when I was a kid. Several times, I read the trilogy over weekends, disregarding my homework of course. Yes, I was a fast ad voracious reader.Men Against the Sea was always my favorite. Nordhoff and Hall are good reads for any age. I still enjoy and re-read their novels over many decades.
This was the second book of the Bounty Trilogy and I found it very entertaining. It is the story of the Captain and men who were cast off the Bounty in a 23 foot launch and their perils as they crossed 3600 miles of open sea to find a European presence in the Southern Hemisphere. A much better read than I expected.
It is nice to be able to follow the mutiny from all the different points of view and also to see what happened to the three different groups involved in this mutiny. This was the second part of the story and I have just finished the third, can't wait to see what happens. This is also a very compelling read due to the hardships the crew has to endure.
Exciting true-life tale of what happened to Captain Bligh after the mutiny on the Bounty. Cast adrift with 17 loyal crew members in an open lifeboat, he navigated them across 3,600 miles of open sea to the Dutch East Indies. This novel is very short and doesn't have the twists, turns, and emotional details of Mutiny on the Bounty, but it's a very enthralling sea adventure.
Amazing story (based on historical records) of Captain Bligh's voyage of over 3600 miles with 19 men in a small boat over open sea to reach land after being ousted from the HMS Bounty. Bligh comes across a bit too nice in the book, although he certainly deserves kudos for getting all but one man (who was killed by unfriendly natives on an island on the way) back to safety.
4 starsA grand retelling of Captain Bligh's remarkable voyage with 19 men in an open boat across 3600 miles of ocean. Regardless of Mr. Bligh's actions which contributed to the mutiny, this trip is nothing less than heroic.Should be read shortly after Mutiny on the Bounty.
Second book in the Bounty trilogy, this book takes you on the stunning voyage of Bligh and the other members of the Bounty who were mutinied against. Another wonderful look in to human nature. One leaves the book with very conflicted feelings towards Bligh.
See my review here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/2014/...
Incredible Story
So far, a very interesting and enjoyable trilogy. I hope to stumble across the next installment some day.
Another library discard I picked up. 2nd in set. Can't put them down.
Fiction,Historical fiction
3600 miles in a boat. story of survivalnow I want to go sailing
