https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16803.The_Complete_Poems_and_Major_Prose
Milton is obviously a product of his time and can be annoyingly sexist. However, his writing is thought-provoking, nuanced and well worth a read.
you need this. great notes and other editorial materials. will want to supplement it with a separate copy of the eikon basilike, and probably the parker biography.
A must read -- if you happen to enjoy 17th century prose and poetry.
I began with Paradise Lost, as it was a selection that my reading group decided to tackle, and I actually found that work very fresh, but when I dove back into the earlier poetry of Milton, and then into some of his prose, I did find him a bit more of a bore, to be honest.But in works like Samson Agonistes, Paradise Regained and his treatises against the monarchy, he showed himself to be an interesting companion -- very erudite, and at times excessively long-winded, but informative.
Why give a finishing date for Milton when I will return to him for solace for the rest of my life. As life is a measure of low expectations, Milton rises to to heaven in his art. The audible aligned with this book is absolutely essential as it brings the text alive, but unfortunately it is abridged.
You can get the Complete Poems in a dozen different editions, so the heart of a new collection like this is in the notes.
I hoped the editors would gift us with a new Milton, find some way to shake up the stereotype, but alas, their poet’s the government-issue Great Man swaddled in lightning and footnotes.
The result’s a handsome, helpful, kind of innocuous edition of an indisputably great poet; great in a way that makes you wonder how much work greatness, as Milton and his editors here conceive it, really does anymore.
Satan is heroic.
Turns out that Milton was a pretty good writer.
An understanding of Milton's political, historical, literary and religious environment are critical to a full appreciation of his works.Paradise Lost **** -- Like Dante’s Divine Comedy, Milton’s world is a joyless place lacking compassion.
Like the Divine Comedy, Paradise Lost is built upon some highly speculative notions of Christianity that are hardly mentioned in the Bible (if mentioned at all).
We tend to side with the plucky rebel who stands up to the authoritarian.It is Satan, too, that makes Paradise Lost live in a way that The Divine Comedy does not.
Without Satan, Paradise Lost is a clever portrayal of 17th century Christian Protestantism.
Milton is one of those classic authors who are highly praised but seldom read, which is tragic because Paradise Lost is one of the greatest achievements of the English language. Just read this one sentence description of Lucifer's fall: "Him the Almighty Power hurled headlong flaming from th' ethereal sky, with hideous ruin and combustion, down to bottomless perdition, there to dwell in adamantine chains and penal fire, who durst defy th' Omnipotent to arms."
I read this together with Paradise Lost, since they were in just one book. An edition from 1930's, I think. It was an easy read; for the writing wasn't as archaic as Paradise Lost was. Parts of it, I skipped, because it was a 'lil bit dragging to read. But all the same, it's a good read on a cold, chilly night.
It is an excellent compilation of Milton's work. The problem I found was that though I did quite enjoy Paradise Lost (which I had previously read a part of) and found Samson Agonistes palatable, I did not enjoy reading much of his prose. So let this serve as a note that my rating is based on my enjoyment on Milton as a writer and not on the collection.
Read this in Caren Silvester's class at Bob Jones University. We didn't read the whole thing, but we read a lot, including Paradise Lost. I used this text again when I sat in an undergrad course with Phil Donnelly in 2013 while I was at Baylor.
It is a very useful text for its purpose in Milton surveys at the undergraduate level. Past that, the footnotes are at times intrusive and coercive. Hughes footnotes some passages and ignores others that are just as deserving, leading the reader to believe there is an agenda at play.
Milton is difficult for me because he is so ENGLISH. But, I have to say that Paradise Lost is ok. The prose flows well and is not forced and the images are very well conjured. I think it's a good read, but I'ts not my first pick.
this was the primary text we used in a class i took about milton.. milton sure did sound pretty boring before i signed up for the class, but i'm pretty thankful i took the class now. milton's genius is beyond description. he seemed more than mortal.
Read most of it--Paradise Lost and many of the poems and essays. Pretty complex and stunning, but you definitely need a lot of help and other resources to take in all the classical and Christian allusions and to realize and appreciate the structure.
Hated some parts, loved some parts, didn't read others.
Rereading Paradise Lost.
"Lycidas" is my favorite poem, quite easily. Amazing piece.
It takes a very literate person to enjoy Milton and even then, it is hard. Beautiful and profound.
I've read:L'Allegro Il Penseroso - both of these are great.Sonnet 7Of Education - Interesting.Lycidas - a truly beautiful elegyThe Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce - Interesting.Sonnet 12
Wake me up when it's over.
Top Ten favorite books of all time.
Re-read Comus
This is the volume I studied back in the college days and it's still dear to my heart. Haven't actually read or worked from another collected Milton, but this one did the trick for me.
This book is full of wisdom that can be spread to any age group. Found it extremely helpful in dealing with my personal lide as well as my academic career.
I already have the Riverside, but this still looks delicious.
Only reading Paradise Lost (so far). Excellent introduction and rich, unobtrusive annotations.
