https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545831.Defense_of_the_Faith
Both Romanism and Evangelicalism, for Van Til, grant autonomy to human reason and allow the natural man to begin on his own, interpret facts erroneously, and then seek to coax him to jump (irrationally) to the teachings of Special Revelation.
Having presented a pretty stark antithesis, Van Til then pivots back a bit, allowing that non-believers and erroneous Christians can know all kinds of true things.
The Romanist-evangelical type of apologetics assumes that man can first know much about himself and the universe and afterward ask whether God exists and Christianity is true.
On page 3...can already tell this is going to be a hard book.
In my mind, Van Til is the most under-appreciated great theologian of the 20th century, probably because his stringent criticisms of Barth obscured him as a mere sectarian. His specialization was apologetics, and this is the central work in his apologetics project. Not a light read, especially because his vocabulary is steeped in really old technical philosophical terminology. One of the few really imaginative, constructive theologies from a 20th century conservative.
A really good book. I suspect his presuppositionalism might be right, which is challenging.
Okay content (good in the basics, and weird to not good in the key arguments) packaged in a terrible reading experience. The rumors about VT's writing are all true.There's really something to his method in evangelism, but he overplays his hand again and again, culminating in an attempt to "expose" the problems in Kuyper, Bavinck, Warfield, and others, all while claiming to carry the truly Reformed mantle.
He points out that often our preaching and apologetics don't match up, and we should strive to be, above all, submissive to Scriptural authority when it comes to defending the faith.In essence, Roman Catholocism (building on Aquinas) and Arminianism seek to find a point of contact with fallen man and convince him to believe in a god.
What Van Til points out is that this makes the mind and will of man ultimate, assuming that man's reason can actually interpret the facts of the universe correctly.Van Til starts from the fact that the Creator-creature divide must be forefront in our preaching and apologetic efforts.
But as far as the Biblical 'method' is concerned or the 'theology' of apologetics as a discipline, Van Til's presuppositionalism has no equal in taking every thought captive to Christ, and showing how the Bible must be one's authority at the very outset of defending the faith.Leading up to apologetics and then discussing it in length, the book is divided into 11 sections as follows:1.
It is an insult to the living God to say that his revelation of himself so lacks in clairty that man, himself through and through revelation of God, does justice by it when he says that God probably exists.The argument for the existence of God and for the truth of Christianity is objectively valid.
Van Til is brilliant- a wonderful but challenging read. Every sentence is chalk-full of theological intrigue.
Great ideas/ philosophy. I found Dr. Oliphant's notes were pretty helpful.
First of all there is the assumption that the Christian has to say only the Christian God could ever account for truth.
We would want to say that only the Christian God does truly account for truth, but I fail to see the necessity in saying only the triune God ever could.
It is these two senses of the phrase; only the Christian God of the Bible can account for truth that Van Til equates.
It is God's story, not His treatise.Now all this being said, Van Til certainly brings some important insights for the Christian.
For 2 reasons : it gives a good overview of his thought (his theology & apologetics) and there are the excellent explanatory of Oliphint, but only in the new edition of 2008 (a lot of times, without them, I would probably be impossible to understand what Van Til is meaning).
By grasping what Van Til reproachs evidentialists for, we do understand better (than the first part which is meant to expose his thought) what his method of apologetics is and why it's really unique, necessary and devastating for unbelief in whatsoever form (his insights apply for all non-christian worldview).
The beginning chapters in which he gives a summary of systematic theology are pretty good. After that it's a scattershot.
Few men have the accolades of the Reformed community when it comes to apologetics as does Dr. Cornelius VanTil. Adherents to his system are referred to as “Vantillian,” and his presuppositional system appears to be the closest apologetic method that upholds a biblical framework. Based on VanTil’s work, men such as Greg Bahnsen have taken this paradigm and gone even further, clarifying this obvious chasm that separates sinful man from a holy God.  With this background knowledge, I was excited to
With this background knowledge, I was excited to finally read VanTil for myself, hoping to get a better understanding of the purpose of apologetics, and how it relates to the atheist or unbeliever.
I am also thankful that men like Greg Bahnsen have done a great work in making these complex philosophical truths more understandable to those who are not so academically inclined.
Perhaps in years to come I can revisit this work again with the hopes of being more knowledgeable about the things discussed.
He addresses the topic of apologetics methodology throughout the book, and calls Christian to be alert for autonomous reasoning that does not submit to the Word of God. For readers who have been introduced to Presuppositional Apologetics through Greg Bahnsen, one will see some of the themes played out here, after all Bahnsen's was a disciple of Van Til. Readers will see the theme of the Creator and Creature distinction much more clearly in this book than Bahnsen per se.
In fact this is probably the best book to begin for those who want to read Van Til in his own words.
Definitely outlived its usefulness in apologetics.
If secularism takes another hard turn towards Hegelianism, then this book will see a small renaissance.
Until then...Van Til wrote in the Idealist tradition, sometimes against Hegel, but always assuming that terminology.
Young reformed pups who come reading Van Til almost always have no clue what he's talking about, except that they think they do.
That's the danger of the book.
For all his dense writing, Van Til was a masterful aphorist, and his students end up spouting his lines while uncomprehending his philosophy.Van Til sets Calvinism as the only consistent Christian worldview, and it is the task of the Calvinist apologist, on his gloss, to bring the non-Christian to consistency by showing the incoherence of his worldview.Except Van Til rarely, if ever, demonstrates that incoherence.
This book is similar to his shorter work, Christian Apologetics.
He also quotes, in the beginning, heavily from the former book in his explication of biblican theology.Although, it is similar, this book is more focused on the actual defense of the faith, ie the rationality/consistency of the reformed faith.
Therefore, an example of Van Til's presuppositional apologetics is presented with the famous conversation between Mr. White (reformed), Mr. Black (non-believer), and Mr. Grey(evangelical).Through this fictional conversation and further discussion, Van Til ultimately shows how it is only the reformed faith that can properly challenge the natural, ie secular, man of his own worldview in the hopes that he may be converted, ie through the Holy Spirit.
I spent quite a while reading through this book because there was so much to chew on.
I was familiar with much of Van Til's thought prior to reading this, but reading it blew me away.
An extremely thought-provoking work that has implications for how we interact with non-believers and present the faith (not facts, but the interpretation of those facts).
Also, I found Van Til's ideas to be foundational for preaching.My only real complaint is that the book isn't organized as well as it could be and Van Til isn't always the best writer.
The place to start to understand presuppositional apologetics.
Van Til starts with defining the faith we are to defend and proclaim, with no dilution or compromise.
He then proceeds to make clear his method by comparing the state of the unbeliever and how, with the aid of the Holy Spirit, to bring him to the futility of his views and to the truth of the God of scripture.
As he does this, he contrasts this approach with the traditional methods used by Romanists and evangelicals, showing how they compromise on the authority of Scripture.
I had to read half of this book for class and it is one of the hardest books I've read!
Van Til's writing, as many scholars will agree, is not very accessible especially to the average reader, however, even those who've studied his work have trouble deciphering it.
Besides the sheer amount of intellectual prowess one must have to read this book, it is very informative and insightful.
I would not recommend this book; I would recommend reading interpretations of Van Til's writings, from people like K.
Scott Oliphint, William Edgar, John Frame, or Richard Pratt Jr., rather than reading straight from the source.
Though one may not agree with all of Van Til's views this is surely a book worth wrestling through. He rigorously seeks to apply the Creator/creature distinction to all realms of thought and life from Metaphysics to Epistemology to Ethics. This distinction was pressed upon me with great force and will surely impact my thinking. One must read him very carefully in his discussions on the antithesis between the believer and the unbeliever. Though a tough read, a slow and thoughtful read will reap much fruit.
This book is the classic statement of presuppositional apologetics from the person who established that position. It is a profound and cogent work that deserves the great influence it has had. Nevertheless, it is a bit challenging to read, which has likely prevented it from having a greater impact upon the Christian public. The works on Van Til by Greg Bahnsen(whom I was privileged to have teach Defense of the Faith to me), John Frame, or R.J. Rushdoony would be good introductions to Van Til which would be best read before tackling Van Til's books like this one.
A very important work of Van Til for anyone studying Reformed Apologetics. Van Til is sometimes hard to read - but definitely worth the work! He is foundational for the presuppositional apologetic methodologies of those who would come after him - such as Greg Bahnsen - and embodies the desire to bring a biblical framework to apologetic methodology.Whether or not you agree with him - you should read his works as he'll push you to think more critically about your approach and method.
Made it about 150 pages in and gave up. From the first chapter, I really wanted to like it, but I found Van Til's writing obtuse and circuitous, to the point that reading a single page was an exhausting ordeal. I like the thinking here; it's just too bad there wasn't a better writer to articulate it. Maybe I'll give this another try someday.
I actually own the 6 volume set which contains (1) The Doctrine of Scripture, (2) A survey of Christian Epistemology, (3) Christian Theistic Ethics, (4) Psychology of Religion, (5) An Introduction to Systematic Theology, and (6) Christian - Theistic Evidences. O that the church of today had another Van Til! May the Lord provide!
Transcendental / presuppositional Reformed apologetics at its best. Before anyone critiques Van Til or reads anything else about presuppositional apologetics, they should read this book. Cons: a bit repetitive at points; can be a difficult read for the average layman. Supplement with Bahnsen, Frame, or someone you know who knows Van Til.
Well, Van TIl is the bro. Excellent articulation of the need for our apologetics to be consistent with the nature and premises of Christianity itself. This book has a reputation of being a hard read - it did not disappoint. I had read Bahnsen and Oliphint on the same subject before Van Til so that made it a little easier. I'd recommend reading those before reading this. Outstanding.
Took me forever but gave me a lot to chew on. Also, presupposes a lot of familiarity with Christian theology and makes quite a few leaps and bounds that are apparently explained elsewhere (like in his other books?). Also, really really dense.
Van Til wrote in order to present Christianity, not to the lowest or the average rungs of society, but to those who are familiar with both theology and philosophy. His analysis and conclusions are not only sharp and clear, but have provided a foundation for Christianity of historic proportions.
One of the classic expositions (and examples, see dialogue) of Van Til's presuppositionalism. Another must have if you're presuppositionalist. This work is in the idealist tradition, analytic philosophers beware.
Well that was fun.
