https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261030.Transcendent_Unity_of_Religions
As Huston Smith lays out in the introduction, this is the primary way Schuon looks at the differences in religion, vs.
His insight is that the manifested differences on the exoteric level of religion are ultimately resolved, transcended and eliminated in the essence of the One. There is great wisdom here through holding ideas in tension – meaning that we can cling to one path as the truth while at the same time acknowledging that ultimate reality is beyond comprehension and big enough to include it all.
By analogy, we can take the example of the duality between the platonic world of ideas and the world of appearances(the reflection of the ideas): the essence of of religions is the same but is dissipated into multiple forms and adapted to the culture of the civilization.
On the other hand, while the Perennial Philosophy bases its ideas on the true tradition, the New age movement is just a mumbo jumbo mixture between different pieces of every religions, pseudo-spiritualism, channeling, etc, or simply put-the monstrous creature of the dr Frankenstein of the religions.
Interesting book, except that perennialism is an incredible illusion and fallacy - in the sence that perennialists argue against "egalitarianism" in the social order but proceed to tell you that all religions are still equally valid in our time.
They tell you that they understand the "absolutist claim" in each religion, but they are above it and relativise it, and then proceed to deny being relativists.
**"Limites de l'expansion religieuse"** [Limits of Religous Expansion]Taking this "fact" in another way [contrary to what Schuon means with it], that is, we can see that there is one religion that has reached, unlike all others, parts of all them = From Andalusia to India to China.
Both of these approaches make the perennial philosophy clearer amongst those who confuse a religions outer and inner dimensions and there by rejecting the perrenial philosophy and by assessing the religions through the Divine Intellect with Pure metaphysics rather than through the limiting catagories of modern philosophy.Following the Platonic tradition, Schuon argues for the trascendental or esoteric unity behind all the worlds religions while acknowledging the existence, the importance and yet the limiting factors of the exoteric.
Even though I think his criticism of, "naturalism" is insencere, there's no doubt that sacred art plays an important role in the perrenial philosophy.What is great about Schuon his is vast knowledge about all the worlds religion and by the objectivity he has towards them.
Schuon compares the great religions to spokes in a wheel, all leading to the one center. It's hard to imagine a more important message for our times.
Schuon seems (I recognize my limitations to make any judgements on the matter) to be astonishingly well versed in the three monotheisms, the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, which are the focal point of this work (contrary to what the title and the cover art of this Quest Book edition might imply), but there are occasional glimpses into erudition on other religious traditions, though to grasp their significance one should be better versed in religious studies than I.
Islam Schuon sees as a synthesis of the exoteric and esoteric bents of Judaism and Christianity, which emphasize Law and Mercy respectively.
Perennialism or better, especially Traditionalism, is more of an understandable answer to the challenges for religion after the enlightenment (considering questions and conclusions not posited before), than an answer in itself.
The main problem with these groups, be they religious or political, is, that they cannot tell ontology and epistemology apart and use it in a proper way.
Be this as it may, the chapter on the metaphysics of religion was still quite good and educative for people who try to think the plurality of religions as unity - which is the great desideratum of religions.
In The Transcendent Unity of Religions, Schuon presents the most nuanced, complete, and compelling perspective I have yet to encounter on topics such as the origins and functions of religion. Schuon's style is dense albeit very clear for the critical reader, delving deep into the metaphysical aspect of religious reality. The Perennialist perspective that Schuon develops here provides a particularly poignant rebuttal to religious reductionism, both from the standpoint of the atheist and the modern religious fundamentalist.
Correspondence from Guénon to Schuon about this book :[Le Caire, 16 avril 1946]"[...] Merci pour les envois successifs des chapitres de votre livre, maintenant complété ; je le trouve du plus grand intérêt, et il aurait été assurément bien regrettable que vous ne vous décidiez pas à l’écrire.
Je ne vois vraiment pas quelles modifications je pourrais vous suggérer, ni ce qu’il pourrait y avoir à ajouter ou à retrancher ; je crois que ce qui se rapporte au Christianisme, en particulier, n’avait jamais été présenté sous ce jour, et cela pourra aider certains à comprendre bien des choses.
"The Transcendent Unity of Religions" is one of the books in the primary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism. "The greatest achievement in life" at suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf has been reviewed on Goodreads.Schuon is recognized as an authority on philosophy, spirituality and religion, an exponent of the Religio Perennis, and one of the chief representatives of the Perennialist School. He has more than 10 books on Goodreads.
Master Schuon explains the common transcendent core of all the world's religions. Islam, Judaism, Christianity, Shamanism, Taoism, Buddhism, Hinduism, and more have an esoteric core which leads directly to intimacy in the knowledge of God. Once again showing the truth of the phrase "One must first walk the Shari'ah in order to have access to the Haqiqa."
“Hıristiyanlık’ta Önce sevmek, sonra istemek, sonra da zamanı geldiğinde bilmek (Tanrı sevgisiyle bağlantılı olarak bilmek) gerekir. İslâm’da ise önce bilmek, sonra istemek, sonra da zamanı geldiğinde sevmek (Tanrı bilgisiyle bağlantılı olarak sevmek) gerekmektedir”.
Given to me as a gift by one of my best friends, this book makes really good insights on the topic. I don't agree with everything, but it's eye-opening.
