https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9902804-lies-that-chelsea-handler-told-me
Well, let me check my email, and see what else I can find."The book starts out well enough (despite the obvious cop-out of not actually having been written by Chelsea Handler) with several charming stories that illustrate what a twisted, brilliant liar can do with carte-blanche to fuck with her loved ones.
Eventually the theme gets completely abandoned, and the stories start reading like generalized eulogies.The second-to-last chapter, due to an apparent scarcity of material, consists of nothing more than emails from Comcast about standards and practices: "Two minutes, forty three seconds: please completely bleep the word 'shit' in 'I don't give a shit.' Two minutes, fifty seven seconds..." "..." "..."And the last chapter is "written" by Chelsea Handler's dog.
I honestly do like like Chelsea Lately, although I certainly don't watch it religiously and her stand-up is very funny, but I felt like this book was just lazy.
She obviously feels like she needs to churn out a book a year now-and honestly, so would I if I was making that kind of money for it-but she doesn't really have anything else to say.
Truthfully, I hope so, because it would certainly make me like the book more to know that she is a pretend a-hole instead of a real one.
While it is not exactly an enormous feat to read all of Chelsea's books, I feel as if I have come to know her over the years through her essays and memoirs.
While I chuckled a few times and smiled every couple of chapters, it lacked the side-splitting milk-coming-out-of-your-nose kind of laughter.Basically this book is a collection of essays written by Chelsea's family, friends, and writers about the pranks that Chelsea has pulled on them ranging from attempting to ruin a co-workers honeymoon to trying to get her brother to sleep with one of her staff.
It's not funny to ruin someone's honeymoon, make someone's entire family and friend base think they're pregnant and having a shotgun wedding, make someone think they are being fired and sued for sexual harassment, email someone's boss and potentially get them into enough trouble or make them feel awkward enough that they might quit, make someone's family think they are on drugs, saying completely inappropriate and dirty things in English to solely Spanish speaking individuals, or any of the other completely over exaggerated and dragged out "practical jokes" she played on her "friends".I honestly think these people would never still be friends with this woman if she weren't "Chelsea Handler" and couldn't make their professional life a living hell.
Please.The only funny part of the entire book was when her "friends" called her an asshole.
This is a compilation of multiple people from Chelsea Handler's life writing about the practical jokes she plays on them.
The bad part is that it is also read by the people who wrote each chapter.
Some of the people reading their chapter were really great, others were awful or just plain annoying.Aside from the actual readings, I didn't really enjoy the book.
It was like listening to Punk'd but without Ashton Kutcher.
If you like shows like Punk'd or Jackass maybe you'd get into this book.
But if you're not a huge fan of practical jokes then stay away from this read.
And not in a funny way- in a very sad co-dependent abusive unpleasant way.I used to think she was a talented businesswoman and gifted comedian, now I realize she is a pathological liar who is mean to her "friends" who it seems only stick around becasue she bribes them with money and fancy vacations and jobs.
As with every other book I have had the pleasure to read by Chelsea Handler, “Lies that Chelsea Handler Told Me” left me with a red, tear streaked face, an aching diaphragm, and little respect for the outrageous comedian.
This is perhaps because I feel like I have come to know Chelsea personally after reading several of her hilarious memoirs and essays.
The stories told in the book provide Chelsea with no possibility of redemption, and yet audiences across the nation still love her: This is what makes her such an amazing author and comedian.
The most ingratiating thing about this book was after you heard the "funny" stories told by those who endure life with this narcissist, like the one about how "Handy" urinated on one of her "friends" for kicks, the writer had to end the chapter with some spin about how "Chelsea would only pee on someone she loves" or something like that to make us think that her outing people and spreading crazy sexual rumors is all really loving behavior as only Chelsea can provide it.
This book will make you very, very glad you are not friends with and do not work for Chelsea Handler.
That said, her friends and co-workers seem incredibly gullible, so the book could also make you feel quite savvy and clever.
Also, she and her friends and co-workers seem deeply immature--often in fun ways, but also really problematic ways, so the book could make you feel a little lame-mature, but it will also likely make you feel you've escaped dangerous-immature.
And, of course, since it's a Chelsea Handler book, even though she didn't write it (see title), it's often laugh-out-loud/groan-out-loud/pee-your-pants funny.
Mostly I just want to do what she's done. She clearly believes in herself like no one's business and is kind of a comedic genius. The book may have been funnier had she written it, rather than have her social circle recount (brilliant) tricks she's played on them. But whatever, it's damn funny. The bitch is kind of fierce.
I have this love/hate relationship with Chelsea Handler, and this book perfectly illustrated my hate. Not sure why’s she has friends in the first place, she seems like the worst friend in the world.But I still find her hilarious, what is this!! She’s just so rude and awful but makes it funny. Damn you Chelsea.This book sucked though, 1.5 stars
Chelsea Handler spends much of her time creating practical jokes with which to bedevil her friends.
Unfortunately, I share this worldview which might be the reason that Chelsea Handler is one of my guilty pleasures.
I think that my favorite was when Chelsea convinced one of her fellow bridesmaids at a wedding that the bride was afraid to sing a song to her new husband and needed someone to sing with her.
It was only after the "duet" started--to the surprise of the bride--that the extent of the joke was realized.
Thank goodness that Chelsea Handler spends so much time working to embarass and humiliate her friends.
I laughed for extended periods multiple times while reading this.
Some of the pranks she pulls are just too out there, but it's nice to know that she cares about her friends and family enough to inject that amount of humor into their lives.
They may not always appreciate it at the time (I'm sure I wouldn't either) but it's nice to have that sort of thing to laugh about later.
I probably wouldn't start watching her show, but I do like her writing and reading about all the jokes she plays on people.
She could probably just have a book of pranks, without her friends additional insights about her, and I would read it.
Now this is the way to write a book: have your friends, staff and family tell very funny stories about you, or involving you; add a few comments at the end of each story, and cha-ching wait for the cash to role in!
In a nut shell this book is about the elaborate practical jokes Chelsea has been playing on her family and friends for decades.
However, coming from a person who waits all year for April Fool’s day and keeps a spreadsheet on the pranks I've pulled, and who they were pulled on, I think she clever and funny, and I enjoyed listening to these stories.
I can't get away with telling lies, even in pursuit of a practical joke. It's not how I was raised, and I can't keep a straight face or be creative enough to pull it off. But if I could, I'd aspire to be Chelsea Handler. She's crude, she's brilliant, and she's hilarious. Throughout reading this book, I kept shaking my head in admiration of her creative brilliance, and I was very, very thankful I don't work for her. If you like Chelsea at all (and I can understand how she's not everyone's cup of tea), you'll love this book.
'My tendency to make up stories and lie compulsively for the sake of my own amusement takes up a good portion of my day and provides me with a peace of mind not easily attainable in this economic climate.'.
Chelsea HandlerChelsea's family and friends share lies and practical jokes perpetrated by Chelsea.Crass, edgy, foul mouthed and R-rated...with moments of hold your sides hilarity.
"I went out with a guy who once told me I didn’t need to drink to make myself more fun to be around.
I told him, I’m drinking so that you’re more fun to be around." — Chelsea Handler
Some of the stories were funnier/more concise than others but overall it was a very entertaining read. My advice to future readers is don't get too wrapped up in the first story. It definitely gets better and more hilarious.
I absolutely love Chelsea Handler! This book just needed more of her. It was primarily from the point of view from Chelsea's friends and family. The humor level just wasn't on par with her other books.
I think Chelsea should be my new best friend!
I couldn’t actually finish this. I felt my brain cells dying in agony each time I listened to it.
Horrible.
Not a funny book unless you enjoy reading about others being embarrassingly pranked and taking it
I've read all of Chelsea's other books.
Chelsea manages to get herself into some seriously bazaar situations, and her quick wit seems to always be her saving grace.
If you've ever wondered how or why "all" that seems to pile down on this one woman, after reading this book, you'll wonder no more...she welcomes crazy in and then full on embraces it.
The common theme in all the mini narratives is this: Chelsea lies, has huge boobs, pees her pants with alarming frequency, loves late night chicken fingers, drinks far to much and is overly generous.
Basically Chelsea Handler is a genius and I say that bc she had her minions that work for her write a story of an epic time filled with vodka, drugs, possibly feces and general tomfoolery that showcases how much Handler loves lying to the masses for her own general amusement.
she essentially had everyone else do the work on this book, slapped her name on it and laughed her way to the bank.
I'mm-a be honest, I'm absolutely a Chelsea Handler fan.
Essentially she is my snarky idol.Oh, right this is a BOOK review though, my B.
I have watched Chelsea Handler on Chelsea Lately, and I have read "Are You There Vodka, It's Me Chelsea?", so I had an inkling of what to expect from "Lies that Chelsea Handler Told Me." But it was even better then I expected.
This book is written by friends and colleagues of Chelsea, and it is basically their stories of her pranks and lies to them.
You see, Chelsea loves to lie and she loves to pull pranks, and the two go hand in hand.
What makes it even funnier is that the people know she lies, so each time they are presented with something, they are 99% certain it is probably a lie.
She (apparently) didn’t write hardly any of it… I won’t go so far as to say I feel dumber listening to it, but I do feel like there are too many dumb people out there… It got less and less entertaining as it went on…My advice?
If one of YOUR dumb friends has already paid for it (or you actually go to the library, like moi), then listen to about one or two CDs and then return and move on to something more intellectually stimulating and more entertaining – such as Tina Fey or a whole host of more clever, less drunk, less mean people who got book deals.
This is one of those books that you pick up just knowing it's going to be good and it doesn't disapoint.
This book, unlike her others is written by her family, friends and victimes of the lies and pranks she has pulled on all of them.
I'd like to sit down and have a chat with Chelsea and her friends/family to find out if everything they write about is real or if stories are exaggerated or lies like everything else, because some of the things she does just seem unforgiveable.
I know my friends wouldn't take it if I tried half of the things she gets away with.
At first I thought Chelsea was really mean to her friends.
The reoccurring theme throughout the book is that Chelsea plays practical jokes on her friends, if she doesn't humiliate you that means she doesn't love you.
She also is extremely loyal to these friends that she humiliates on a daily basis and buys them great presents/trips.
I liked that each chapter was written by a different friend or family member and that for the audio book the person that wrote the chapter read aloud/ acted out their piece (sanz Chelsea's anecdotal comments found at the end of each chapter).
"Lies That Chelsea Handler Told Me" is once again a great, quick read.
The book is broken down into various chapters, each written by a different person as they share some of their most memorable stories with Handler - or at least the most memorable where she pranked them.
This book is an example of her belief - she gets joy out of messing with her friends, and her friends feel the joy too.
Basically, read this if you want to laugh - but remember Chelsea Handler does not have a filter, and the people who wrote the chapters don't either.
Maybe it's because I had such high expectations of a book from Chelsea Handler.
Maybe it's because I had read the amazingly funny "Bossypants" right before it.
Or maybe not all of Chelsea Handler's friends should be able to write a chapter in a book.
Whatever it was, this book simply wasn't up to par by Handler standards.
Chelsea Handler acts like a 7 year old boy with boobs.
She likes to play pranks (some of which are painfully stupid - yet people fall for them), but she only messes with you if she loves you.
