https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355190.Orientalism
The following is a true story:Me, in a San Franscisco bar reading Orientalism.The blonde girl next to me reading over my shoulder: "So what's Orientalism?"I explain as best I can in a couple sentences. Her: "There are so many isms in Asia - like Buddhism and Taoism. You know what book you should read? The Tao of Poo. It's sooo good. It's, like, the perfect way to teach Americans about Eastern Religion."Horrified, I look back to my book and take a sip of beer.
The notion that Said is anti-Western or Pro-Islam is such a bizarrely inexplicable misreading that the only reason a reader could come away from the book with that belief is if they brought in a huge set of prejudices and then ignored everything Said actually wrote.First, they must assume that ‘East’ and ‘West’ are terms that have well-defined geographical and social meanings, and then ignore the fact that Said repeatedly states that, to him, 'East' and 'West' are just convenient ideas, not real, solid entities--that it is ridiculous to talk about India, China, and the Middle East as if they were one culture, or even to lump in the various Arab states with one another, when they each have very different histories and values.
This work is seminal and landmark – so it can be avoided only at your own cost.I’ll get to the central idea of the book in a second, but first some advice for people thinking of reading it.
This is the role of the Orientalist, a role he (and from what I can gather from this book it does seem to virtually always be a he) has played rather consistently over the centuries.What is particularly interesting here is that Said says Orientalists don’t really treat the Orient as if it was a place, in space or time, but rather as a text – written once and then indelible.
“Every single empire in its official discourse has said that it is not like all the others, that its circumstances are special, that it has a mission to enlighten, civilize, bring order and democracy, and that it uses force only as a last resort. And, sadder still, there always is a chorus of willing intellectuals to say calming words about benign or altruistic empires, as if one shouldn't trust the evidence of one's eyes watching the destruction and the misery and death brought by the latest m
Edward Said keeps his arguments relatively in the present, at least, from the perspective of the way the current eyes of the Occidental view the Oriental.
Imagine it duplicated ten-fold, seen in every Western representation of the East and you have cultural conditioning that leaves the populace with this false notion of the Oriental world.
Said wasn’t the first to suggest these ideas, they are not just his arguments, but he was the first to write an entire book describing Western to Eastern perceptions.
An amazing classic book from the late Edward Saïd about the origins of the Western view of the Orient that shaped literature and music in the 17th-20th century.
It is a penetrating view of various racial stereotypes of Arab peoples (dressed in sheets smoking hookahs and generally under-educated and prone to laziness and violence) that pervades all levels of society and served the interests of colonialism to appease consciences of all the violence and subjugation that occurred in China, India the Middle East and Northern Africa.
Particularly in these troubled times with racial slurs against Muslims becoming common currency (amd electoral policy), it remains relevant and eye-opening.
شتان بين الطلسمات التي ابتلينا بها على يد كمال ابوديب في الترجمة الأولى التي صدرت قبل أكثر من عقدين، وبين هذه الترجمة السلسة الرائقة البعيدة عن التقعُّر، والإغراب، وصك المصطلحات الشاذة. إذا أردت أن تقرأ كتاب إدوارد سعيد، وتفهمه فهماً حسناً، وتفيد منه، فعليك بقراءة ترجمة أستاذنا محمد عناني، واهرب من ترجمة كمال ابوديب هروبك من المجذوم!!!!!!!!!!!!
هو تطوير تفصيلي ليس فقط للتمييز الجغرافي الأساسي الذي يقسم العالم لقسمين غير متكافئين شرق و غرب بل أ
And he's right about some things: Western art and literature created a whole fantasy world about "the Orient" (which included the Balkans and Russia) over the last few centuries; Western scholarship about North Africa or the Middle East or India could be (and was) used by colonial powers.
But as critics (especially Bernard Lewis and Robert Irwin)have pointed out, Said took a handful of serious ideas and created his own fantasy world of "Orientalism" (destroying, as Lewis lamented, a perfectly honorable scholarly term).
Preface (2003)AcknowledgmentsIntroduction--OrientalismAfterword (1995)NotesIndex
يناقش أدوارد سعيد في هذا الكتاب " الاستشراق " كظاهرة ثقافية يشوبها الكثير من التحامل الغربي على الشر
I think non-Muslim/Arab/'Oriental' folk should put the question to ourselves whenever considering or discussing Islam or the Middle East: 'am I being John of Segovia?'European Orientalism produced a very rich sophisticated body of knowledge (Said stresses at the outset that his text is not about comparing this construct to reality) that produced ideas - it is the corporate institution for dealing with the Middle East/Arab/Muslim world (henceforth, problematically, 'the Orient') - politically useful to European imperialist powers (henceforth, problematically, and including the USA, 'the West').
Said limits Orientalism on how English, French, and American scholars have approached the Arab societies of North Africa and the Middle East.
Within his time frame, however, Said extends his examination beyond the works of recognized Orientalist academics to take in literature, journalism, travel books, and religious and philosophical studies to produce a broadly historical and anthropological perspective incorporating Foucaultian notions of "Discourse" and Gramscian notions of "Inventories".His book makes three major claims.
Next, his second claim is that Orientalism helped define a European (mainly English and French) self-image.
Lastly, Said argues that Orientalism has produced a false description of Arabs and Islamic culture.
He's a brilliant writer, although he did irritate me at times (he constantly vilified anyone trying to represent anything, claiming, rightfully, that it is only possible to have a misrepresentation of anything built on one's own experiences and culture, and I did truly want to remind him that was what he was doing with Orientalism, too).
Some of his scholarship is also a bit off (mistaking certain writers for other people with the same name, that sort of thing), but still, a seminal work.
Intellectual porn for self-hating westerners, shockingly became one of the most influential texts of the last 25 years. Said's pompous, self-important writing style papers over yawning gaps in scholarship and breathtaking dishonesty. Finally, some academics appear to be getting over their institutional infatuation with Said and the critical tide is starting to turn. None too soon.
Une lecture essentielle pour tout le monde, qui que vous soyez.
La postface écrite par Edward Said 16 ans après la publication de son essai est très intéressante et enrichissante puisqu'il y revient sur les critiques et diverses interprétations faites de son texte aux quatre coins du monde et nous rappelle ce que son texte N'EST PAS, mais l'expérience démontre qu'il est très difficile de ne pas y voir ce que chacun espère ou redoute...
La citation choisie par Edward Said au début de son essai prend tout son sens "Ils ne peuvent se représenter eux-mêmes ; ils doivent être représentés." Karl Marx.
A literary/philosophical analysis of perceptions of 'the Orient' as something different, exotic, passionate, religious, and inferior.
The Orient as it was, was thought of as such - in many ways- since the Crusades, perhaps before, and all the way up to the Ottoman Empire.
But as the Europeans became colonial powers, perceptions continued to influence action.Im curious over why the author omitted German sources, and possible perceptions of West v.
East Europe - the multiethnic Habsburg Empire, and the Russian 'yellow peril'.
Or of Wilhelm the Second's mad dreams.And I am curious as to perceptions of the West by East, as well.
I’ve seen scholars respond that they are indeed innocent of politics; but if I ever cherished that thought, too much reading history has ruined me.
With his 2003 Preface – the year he died – he has returned to the serene tones of the main work, although, with the downturn in world events, he sounds a sadder and a wiser man.The book was written as a classic ought to be, without the jargon of the day and a pleasure to read.
انه الكتاب العربي الوحيد في قائمه مائه كتاب غيروا تاريخ العالم للنابغه ادوارد سعيد امتاع ابداع لن تعتبر قارىء ومثقف بدون ذلك الكتاب من وجهه نظرى سرد بساطه مفاهيم سلسه انيقه تم ترجمته الي عده لغات
This is a book lauded by intellectuals and critics alike, the few "responses" to Said's assertions would be laughable if they weren't so lacking in credibility, written by pseudo-scholars that are ignored in academia like Ibn Warraq and Daniel Pipes but somehow get 5 stars on amazon.com from xenophobes and islamophobes.
Even Bernard Lewis, at one point the most influential Near Eastern Studies scholar in the West, only criticized Orientalism because he was forced to.
This was the first book to inspire me to become a professor, philosopher, and cultural critic just like Edward Said and I can proudly say I'm on that path.
الكتاب مجهدٌ جدًا، وهو مرجعٌ تاريخي أكثر من كونه كتابًا للقراءة.
Ce livre est un pamphlet écrit au siècle dernier par un professeur de littérature américain, dans lequel l'Orientalisme est dénoncé comme une imposture pernicieuse qui véhiculerait depuis deux siècles une fausse image négative et raciste des habitants de l'Orient, qui masquerait un dessein caché de domination et d'asservissement, et aurait conduit, du fait de son vain prestige de prétendue science, hier les gouvernements d'Europe au colonialisme et aujourd'hui celui des États-Unis à une politique injuste.
En réalité, Flaubert se sent tout autant supérieur au pauvre oriental, qu'au bourgeois croisé dans une étape ou à Paris, qu'au prolétaire français qui lutte pour la justice : c'est son instruction qui lui fait sentir directement sa supériorité sur l'ignorant, et non pas sa race ou ce qu'il a pu lire dans les orientalistes comme le suggère Said.
Said's stated purpose of writing was to show how an intellectual study such as Orientalism can not be viewed independently from the influence of power dynamics on an author.
Orientalism, he stated, responded directly to the West's need to possess and control an East that it considered inferior, doing so through "owning" it in academic domination as well as politically and militarily.
Said claims Orientalism to be a study that purposely excludes the East from having a voice, but in a strange way, so did Said.
“In a sense the limitations of Orientalism are … the limitations that follow upon disregarding, essentializing, denuding the humanity of another culture, people, or geographical region.” I recently read Said’s “Culture and Imperialism”, which I adored for its study on the effects of imperialism on literature, and this one is equally at par. This work should’ve been read first though, as it explores orientalism as a Western-created concept in order to assimilate Eastern culture into a simple ent
This work should’ve been read first though, as it explores orientalism as a Western-created concept in order to assimilate Eastern culture into a simple entity, as to make it easier for people in the other side of the world to understand, forgoing all real understanding in exchange for an exotic fixation.I’ve read a couple reviews that seem to completely miss the park when it comes to Said’s views.
But perhaps the most truth comes from his view on “civilizing” other cultures, a thing that the West has done repeatedly in the centuries it spent trying to colonize (or managed to do so) the East.
أعلن استسلامي ...تجاوزت نصف الكتاب ثم توقفت ..
ولكنني كنت أشعر وكأنني لا اقرأ كتاباً ..
بل أنحت صخراً ..
وبدون نتيجةالكتاب قيم ولا شك ..
رغم أنه أكاديميّ فيما يبدو لي ..
ولكنه قيم ويستحق القراءةولكن ..
المترجم !!ما فعله المترجم (كمال أبو ديب) هو أنه جاء بكتاب ادوارد سعيد ..
ثم نقله من الانكليزية إلى السنسكريتية !!وأنت تقرأ عليك أن تتوقف عند كل جملة وكل سطر وكل كلمة لتفهم ماذا يريد المترجم !يخترع مصطلحات جديدة ..
يضع بين كل كلمة وكلمة فاصلة ..
وبين كل جملة وجملة جملة اعتراضية ..
“My dear Kepler, what would you say of the learned here, who, replete with the pertinacity of the asp, have steadfastly refused to cast a glance through the telescope? What shall we make of this? Shall we laugh, or shall we cry?”- Galileo in his Letter to Johannes KeplerThe above quote had a huge impact on me when I first read it. I always thought that even if those learned men so faithful to the Christian ideas they were married to, would have looked through the telescope and saw how the Earth
No they were very well taught in this ignorance before they reached in colonies and like that guy who only confirmed Sun’s orbit around Earth after glancing through telescope, these new travelers only saw what their education taught them to see even after having a more intimate contact with real people of East.
A general image of what Orientals are supposed to look like remained in their mind and overruled what they saw.
This is a great example of a paradigm shift in the social scientist's perspective. Something like "orientalism" was so taken for granted over the centuries that it took someone like Said to simply take a step back and say "dude, what the fuck." As I read it, I found myself trying to step back from the orientalizations in my own life and in the cultural/social life around me. For the life examined.
This is a seminal postmodern postcolonial work of critical theory and cultural studies, deconstructing one of the most dominant grand narratives of our civilization, that continues to fuel xenofobia and wars.
Did not finish. A tone more for scholars than general readers like myself. May try again.
It wasn't until mid-way in this book, that I realised why I was so exhausted with reading it.
It truly is the epitome of 'Wilful ignorance' when contradictions are found in amply supply upon analysing western world views of billions of people in different countries and cultures.
Yet, it was at this moment that I realised what Said was doing, and grew a true appreciation for his work that went beyond simply reading out of respect for the fact that his work was the first to tackle this topic.
Said deconstructs the institutions that actually form the ideas that are then assimilated into the general knowledge of a particular time, culture and place.
Sections of this book are constantly utilized in the academic world, so it was about time to finally read it, and also timely as far as my current location (geographically and personally).
As some have said, the ideas in this book are often acknowledged by many intellectuals (with various degrees of acceptance depending on ideological persuasion).
Said states he is asking these kinds of questions: "How does one represent other cultures?
Do cultural, religious, and racial differences matter more than socio-economic categories, or politicohistorical ones?" (325)Said's books are timeless due to the transcendence of his ideas.
