https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10669.When_Genius_Failed
For example, he does a good job of explaining how a fund could go long or short on volatility in equities.
Here the models derive from the Black-Scholes method for pricing options (indeed, Scholes was a partner in LTCM).
(It's worth noting that this 10 sigma event happened a second time the year after the company collapsed.
So instead of once in forever, the event happened twice in just over a year.) But no-one has said how unlikely their success was according to their own models.
The technique employed by hedge fund such as Long Term only works by means of very large bets with very big leverage.
Two, when things started to go wrong the arbitrage departments of their lenders were trying to unload positions virtually identical to those held by LTCM flooding an inherently thin market leaving them no good way to liquidate their enormous holdings.On top of that, they did not know when to quit.
They looked for ways to apply the model to other investments that were a much poorer fit, and eventually started to make "directional" trades, a fancy term for ordinary speculation without any hedge at all, and still leveraged.
When things get heated it was along the lines of Sorkin's Too Big to Fail, but otherwise a decent treatment of the significant events in the life and death of LTCM.Don't have too much more to share other than how prescient the following quotation (the book was written in 2000) was (or, perhaps how Wall Street is quick to forget the lessons of the past, or perhaps how Wall Street is building a great track record of huge compensation for finding and exploiting moral hazard):"""None other than Merrill Lynch ovservd in its annual report for 1998, "Merrill Lynch uses mathematical risk models to help estimate its exposure to market risk." In a phrase that suggested some slight dawning awareness of the dangers in such models, the bank added that they, "may provide a greater sense of security than warranted; therefore, the reliance on these models should be limited." If Wall Street is to learn just one less from the Long-Term debacle, it should be that.
This is the real-life account of how Long Term Capital Management, run by a bunch of the (supposedly) smartest guys in the world, including two Nobel laureates, went bust.
It is a tale of recklessness and arrogance and most of all, lack of experience in real markets.
The amazing thing is, some of these guys managed to "return from the dead" not once, but several times by starting new funds.
Anyway the technical explanations on markets and derivatives are not really essential to get the full benefit of the book.
"They had forgotten the human factor." Sometimes 'vulgar Marxist' accounts of economics can be eerily similar to efficient markets theory because they assume a sort of natural outcome of exploitation and trading.
Yet people in markets continuously do things that aren't even in their narrow self-interest.
And they do these things because of their personalities and prejudices.
This book is pretty straightforward journalism but it makes one point very well - without considering relationships between people you can't understand why the most celebrated finance types in the world could make bets of a size that no reasonable person would otherwise ever agree to.
Lowenstein brilliantly takes us behind this scenes to unravel how real geniuses-- Long-Term's marketing strategy was touting the number of Nobel prize-winning economists they had on staff-- took on huge amounts on highly leveraged bets based on data that was fundamentally flawed (um, sound familiar?).
Lowenstein never dismisses this idea entirely, but what he does show is how human behavior and the newly interconnectedness of global markets mean that the odds can go against your favor big time (again, sound familiar?) just as your money runs out.

And as John Maynard Keynes is quoted as saying in the book, "Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent." LTCM discovered the truth of that statement too late.LTCM earned great returns in the early years through the use of leverage, derivatives and easy credit terms from its banks.
These financial institutions saw firsthand the devastating losses that could occur due to overleveraging, excessive use of derivatives and providing easy credit terms to borrowers, and yet many of these same firms suffered severe losses in 2008 due to these very same factors.
It works until it doesn't. Hard to believe that after LTCM's fall John Meriwether went on to found a new firm, JWM Partners, which, not surprisingly, blew up in the 2008-2009 downturn. What is surprising? In 2010, he founded a third firm, JM Advisors Management; so much for high-water marks.
Lowenstein does a pretty good job of explaining LTCM's various trading strategies.Bond ArbitrageInitially, LTCM engaged primarily in "bond arbitrage"; they would search the markets for unusually large spreads between treasury bills and futures on those bills.
In good times, LTCMs returns were compounded by its insane leverage; in bad times, its losses were magnified.The Fed Steps InIn less than 5 weeks, LTCM would go on to lose more than 3.6 billion of their money.
This books gets three stars because it is a serviceable summary of its topic but is in now way outstanding.
If you like finance, specifically statistical modeling and hedging strategies, you will find this tale of Nobel Prize hubris gone wrong because "muh models" didn't predict multiple standard deviation events intriguing.
Thus, when there is some sort of conflict, we are SUPPOSED to remember that Harvard MBA #1 is timid while Wharton MBA#3 is assertive, but the average reader will find the many, many names in this book running together.The definition of a three-star book.
Roger Lowenstein did a great job summarizing what was a monumental collapse by Long Term Capital Management, and the epilogue really drove the point home.
How many times do we need to be shown that markets simply are not rational before we finally get the hint?I found it fascinating that LTCM was such a large firm that when word got out that it was in trouble, other banks rushed to sell their positions because they knew that if LTCM had to liquidate, markets would crash simply because LTCM's positions were so large.I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in business and finance.

Книга Ловенстайна «Когда гений терпит поражение» стала для меня отличным продолжением после книги «Покер лжецов» Майкла Льюиса (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...).В книге описывается история создания, анализ деятельности и громкое падение столь «звёздной» компании известной на Уолл-Стрит как LTCM (Long-Term Capital Management). В книге переплетаются профессиональный и глубоко научный подход вместе с человеческими страстями к наживе к большим и сверхприбылям. Рекомендую прочитать и посмотреть как LTCM вместе со своим руководством канула в лету и, что именно к данным событиям привело…
O livro levanta dois questionamentos interessantes:1) até que ponto os modelos de risco que se utilizam do passado para tentar prever o futuro conseguem ser úteis em momentos de grande irracionalidade nos mercados?2) o salvamento organizado pelo FED não poderia dar espaço para Moral Hazard no futuro?Bem, acho que a crise de 2008 nos dá algumas respostas para isso....
Even complex mathematical models fails to take into account the irrational nature of human beings. These models are based on countless amount of assumptions, and they followed it blindly. Arrogance, greed and flawed models obliterated LCTM.
I read to understand how they lost half of my money. A terrific read for your inner finance nerd.
Roger Lowenstein Chronicles an event often glossed over and ignored in the history of financial crashes and panics: the tragic story of Long Term Capital Management.The story of this hedge fund remarkably mimics the great crash that would occur nearly a decade later, and give an excellent prologue to the more extreme events that would occur later.I'd consider this book to be like the Hobbit: an excellent prequel to a more epic story that would occur later on.
And how some of them are still not addressed today.A great read for anyone looking for the full story on LTCM or for those who enjoy books on finance, economics, and financial panics.
Seductive theory of efficient market and Rational Economic Man (REM) is proven wrong.
The assumptions of Modern Quantitative Finance used by LTCM were too optimistic and clad with an aura of invincibility.
Greed was one of the driving factor behind large speculative positions.
but they weren't speculative for LTCM's point of view.
They thought they were right and market was wrong, therefore, paid heavy price.
An interesting and eye opener to those who think of finance merely as quantitative and limited to fancy computer models.
Theory of finance and economics is more of an art than science.
Behavioral factor governs finance more than theories of science.
Detailed, eye-opening revelations!This book covers the spectacular rise and the stunning fall of LTCM, the hedge fund set up by the whos-who of the industry including Nobel Laureates. They earned more than 300% profits over 4 years to grow by $3.5+ billions and lost it all in nearly 2 months! The assumptions in models, the disproportionate leverage, their lack of attention to intuitive reason, and their superlative egos which paved way for their failure are very hard to miss. Makes for a great read to understand the essence of the race for dynastic fortunes and the unparalleled fall!
Daniel Napoli, Merrill's risk manager, quipped, "If they could have earned a Ph.D at golf, they would have." Stephen Bellotti, who ran foreign currency trading at Merrill, turned to Myron Scholes at one of these weekends and playfully demanded, "Myron, what do you have more of - money or brains?" Scholes shot back: "Brains, but it's getting close!"But the story of LTCM is unusually important for several reasons, because of the number of people who played large roles in the current financial crisis, because of what a big precedent the firm's too-big-to-fail status set, and because of the completely non-existent role played by regulators.
Roger Lowenstein gives a detailed account of the unprecedented success and abrupt collapse of Long Term Capital Management. LTMC was founded by John Meriwether, ex bond trader at Salomon Brothers in 1994, and the fund mostly relied on convergence trading. The returns were astonishing in its early days, but the exorbitantly high leverage coupled with the financial meltdown in Asia and Russia forced the Fed to mediate a bailout of the fund in 1998.
In fact, my biggest objection to the book is that it seems the author is trying too hard to give explanations for LTCM's failure.
Of course, LTCM's failure is a cumulative process so it is hard to pin it down to any one or two singular bad investment decisions.Among other things, I would like to recall four things that I remembered from the book:1.
The author of the book mildly calls for more financial regulations to the hedge fund business.
I like reading the ``neutralized" story of how big bankers played the ball with each other.
This story of "Long Term Capital Management" must be right up there among all time greatest folklore of Wall Street.
This was a group which broke away from one of the Wall Street's giant of 90's- The great Solomon Brothers- and started on their own which was an act of supreme confidence on their own abilities in taming the market volatilities.John Meriwether headed Salomon Brothers' bond trading desk until he resigned in 1991 amidst a trading scandal(which was not his own creation)and then he created Long-Term Capital as a hedge fund in 1993 and recruited several Salomon bond traders who were part of his distinguished TEAM in his former company.
The more desperate LTCM became in its efforts to raise capital and meet its margin calls, the more clearly the big banks smelled blood.
In fact, the models could tell them what was reasonable or what was predictable based on the past.
After enormous success and huge flows of investment into the fund, "Long-Term was succumbing to the fatal temptation to puts its money someplace", and began buying options on clear speculation.
LTCM had complex models to calculate risk in their portfolio of positions.
“Life is ‘a trap for logicians’ because it is almost reasonable, but not quite; it is usually sensible but occasionally otherwise: it looks just a little more mathematical and regular than it is; its exactitude is obvious, but it’s inexactitude is hidden; its wildness lies in wait.”This book was a fascinating account of the hubris in traders and demonstrates the fundamental problems with economist modeling. The efficent-market hypothesis takes a big hit in this book.
This is a great account of the meteoric rise and fall of Long-Term Capital Management, a highly leveraged hedge fund run by several huge names in finance including John Meriweather, Robert Merton, Myron Scholes, and David Mullins.
Lowenstein does a great job of telling this story in a way that just about anyone can understand.
I haven't read it, but I've heard that it focuses less on the narrative and more on the specific strategies and trades.
Lowenstein's account is much more focused on the narrative and the personalities involving while giving less attention to the hardcore finance.
I didnt know Seth Klarman had refused to take a stake in LTCM.
I didnt know they mainly went down for shorting outright equity implied vols which feels like a very dangerous trade to me if carried without a hedge elsewhere in the vol curve (I work in trading).
I didn't know it was from one of the LTCM guys http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1yJWAB..., so with this context in mind, this guy just feels like the wrong person to be giving this type of pitch.
While reading I also researched Eric Rosenfeld and came across this, http://techtv.mit.edu/videos/2450-eri...
Many would say that LTCM is now just a footnote when viewed today, but I rather like to think of it more as a warning sign that should have been heeded prior to the financial crisis.
We tend to think that the notion of "too big to fail" was a concept that was born as a result of the federal bailout of AIG during the financial crisis, but bailouts had occurred at least dating back to the savings and loan collapse in the 1980s and more recently, to LTCM.
"Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance." This mantra of financial markets was eschewed by the gurus at LTCM and this book thoroughly explains the early payoffs and late demise of their hedge fund.
It's all very well done.Because Lowenstein had almost no access to the key players at Long Term Capital Management, the story telling feels a bit removed from the action.
Of course, given the limits imposed on Lowenstein's research and reporting, adding dialogue would turn the story into fiction, which would make this an entirely different (and not so useful) book.
Here, accurate nonfiction wins out over recreated drama, as it should.If you are interested in the high risk/high reward world of investing, and if you want yet another story of the markets on the edge of disaster (and if you like to see the overly proud brought down to earth), When Genius Failed is certainly worth a read.
