https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1565613.Anglo_Saxon_Attitudes
Once inside, I was pleased to find that the story took place within academia's sordid walls and involved an archeological excavation - a priapic wooden fertility idol is found in the tomb of a 7th century Christian bishop, but at the end of the book's first section we find out the idol is a hoax, placed there by an acquaintance of the protagonist, Gerald Middleton.
Sarthe, a man who writes distinctly less scholarly books, foisted upon him:As he took a glass of champagne from one of the hired waiters, he saw with horror that Marie-Hélène was leading a tall, grey-haired Frenchman towards him.
The star of the show is estranged wife Inge.
She's a Northern European dream ...
if she didn't invent the Moomins, then it must have been someone very like her.
I love that she's happy to be nice to her son's thieving labourer, but is all hysterical when anyone suggests that it isn't just "Radio Times" and cups of cocoa when they climb into bed together.
I love her social democracy and her snobbishness.
I love how infuriating and exasperating she is.
Drunk.
I remember being so scared of drunk adults when I was a kid.
3.5 stars"Part of the importance of Angus Wilson's work, then and now, was that he was the first respectable English novelist to bring the connections between the public bourgeois world of art, family, government, and property and the clandestine homosexual world of desire and danger together in a Great Tradition novel -- showing by his tone and style they were all one world and thereby conferring respectability on what had previously been risqué." (From the introduction by Jane Smiley)
A portrait of an aging academic and his wide if unloved circle of family and colleagues, with an engaging through line regarding the destructive effects of falsity. Three weeks in England was enough for my Anglophilia to rub thin, but reading this on the flight back to LA was nearly enough to make me buy a return ticket to Essex. Haha—I’m kidding, the sun never comes out and they’re all weird looking. Anyway, this was clever and enjoyable, I liked it more than I’d figured.
The hype is that this book is one of the 20th C classic British comedies, which only increased my overall disappointment as I plowed through page by page of not funny acid.
I don't know if other readers have this experience but this is a book where I constantly looked at the page numbers and did the mental arithmetic to calculate what fraction of completion I had reached and how much trudging remained (on the plus side I did spend more time practicing my fractions).
For my sins I did find Yves amusing and in the the last 30 pages I did find some connection to Gerald which made the very last part of the book slightly absorbing.
For example, take the first two pages referring to John Middleton, who clearly writes for a national paper: 'in this overgoverned England of ours', 'everyone of us in England today,' ' a friend of England.' And as the book starts, so it continues.
Chapter Two (starting page 233) is an astonishing assault on the un-english reader: 'so very English', 'beloved of his English colleagues', 'I'm very English', 'three elderly English scholars with no real communion of feeling except their nationality', (good one that, when there is no such thing as English nationality), 'it's my chauvinistic pride as an Englishman'.
This is the second of Angus Wilson's books I've read, allowing me to engage in generalizations. 1950s England, a father of adult children is having a late mid-life crisis - there is also a significant gay theme, of which Wilson was noted as an unusually frank explorer for the time. This book is also a good early example of the campus novel, following Lucky Jim by only two years.
I thought when I started that this book was going to be satire, and particularly vicious satire at that. And then at some point, without my really even realizing it, there was a core of humanity that sprang up and surprised me. It made the characters more symapthetic, except the most truly awful ones (Yves, Alice Cresset), and these latter it made horrible rather than funny. All in all, the book was a pleasant surprise. I may try some of his others.
Wilson, Angus. ANGLO-SAXON ATTITUDES. (1956). *****.  This is a marvelous novel, which, in spite of my high rating, will certainly not be to everyone’s taste. The story is set, primarily, in England, between the two wars – although the focus of the story occurred during an archeological dig in the years 1912-1914 by Professor Stokesay, Regius Professor of English History, and an authority on the 7th century. It was during his discovery and excavation of what was found to be the tomb of Bishop Eo
The story is set, primarily, in England, between the two wars – although the focus of the story occurred during an archeological dig in the years 1912-1914 by Professor Stokesay, Regius Professor of English History, and an authority on the 7th century.
It was during his discovery and excavation of what was found to be the tomb of Bishop Eorwald, a 7th century Christian missionary at the court of Aldbert of the East Folk, that a pagan idol was found among the relics.
How all of this plays out is the plot of the novel – primarily as tracked by Professor Gerald Middleton, a Professor Emeritus of early medieval hi9story and a former pupil of Professor Stokesay.
It took me some time to warm up to the story, because there seemed to be a tad too many characters and I couldn't tell where it was going...
I don't remember when I started to like it, but it might have had something to do with the appearance of Vin and his set.
I liked them a lot, the lowlifes!
But fun.
They were all evil and fun.
Oh. I got some anti-foreigner and anti-working class (okay maybe not, but basically if you aren't at a certain level of income and education, you simply can't be worth much; you may possess a "reptilian intelligence".
I liked it!
I struggled like a novice hanging wallpaper to understand the author’s reason for writing this novel, which strangely entirely failed to awaken and enthuse my interest.
I am instead forced to be honest, admit failure, and face up to the fact that I have no shortage of other books queued up, and which I’d prefer to read.What continues to baffle me is that I still don’t understand WHY I failed to engage with this book.
I don’t believe I’ve ever experienced anything like that before.
A Dickensian list of characters and coincidences set in 1950s London. Hilarious caricatures contrast with all-too-fresh memories of wars and concentration camps giving a mysterious air to a generation that probably didn't see their circumstances as all that unusual.
Much better read if one is British or has a higher education in early English.
The universe in this book is astounding. It is unfathomable that someone could write this.
I originally read this book many years ago for a course in Modern British Fiction, and I enjoyed it just as much the second time around as I did then.
Behind the humor, though, is a great deal of pathos as Wilson sketches his protagonist, a wealthy English scholar in his sixties who comes to realize in the course of the book that his scruples and indecision have caused him to miss out on most of the joys of life.
He's still young enough, however, to have time for a second chance.
If I were to identify a theme, it is the absence of authenticity in most or all of the main characters, and thus their inability to connect intimately with anyone else.
I didn't like any of the characters very well, but I didn't even dislike them very well, either, so when their comfortable self-indulgences backfired, I didn't actually care.
The novel has to do with being honest about the past in order to move out of it.
I recognize that this novel is written well, and it has its own kind of honesty, but I wouldn't read it again.
An awfully good book, held back to 4 stars because I wasn't emotionally engaged (when compared to the somewhat similar John Irving, Charles Dickens, or Robertson Davies--it's that kind of book).
A very large cast (dauntingly large at first, but eventually you work out that everyone knows everyone else, and what those relationships are, and the book narrows its focus to a particular person/family and you realise who are the leads and who are the supports).Not as funny as I was expecting--really, not funny at all, or at least not in the way where I would tell others "it's so funny!" because it's not.
Angus Wilson is brave. He also wrote this hilariously cynical book involving a wealthy family and its many branches and connections, all of them involved in lies.
The story covers a year in the life of Gerald Middleton, his family, and some others who were peripherally-involved in an archaeological dig forty years previously.The dig was led by Gerald's mentor, well-respected historian Lionel Stokesay, and revealed a controversial pagan idol in the tomb of one of the first Christian missionaries in England.
As a result, the rest of Gerald's life, both personally and professionally, has been lived in fear of making the wrong move and accidentally finding out or revealing the truth.We see the way his approach to life has affected everyone around him.
I suspect this one will gain on a second reading--it's hard for me, a late twentieth century, transplanted Australian, to really get the class issues that Wilson is, I'm pretty sure, out to examine.
The introduction by Jane Smiley is much better than the usual NYRB introduction: she suggests that Wilson was trying to write a nineteenth century novel, which makes good sense of what he has done; and she points out, accurately, that many of the class references will fly over readers' heads.
Wilson wrote like I wish Jane Austen had, with droll scenes that retain realistic harsh edges, refined conversations that absolutely sizzle with conflict, and diverse settings and threads of story that entwine in a satisfying, if soap-operatic, entirety of plot.
His language is slightly antiquated (so many characters "cry" instead of simply speaking) but his grasp of human foible - and his capacity for compassion towards his supremely flawed yet mostly sympathetic characters - is impressive.
Through a glass darkly: Angus Wilson, darling of the 50s literati, managed to get away with being a massive whoopsie by hiding in plain sight. The rich cast of characters introduced in Anglo-Saxon Attitudes requires a dramatis personae (not the affectation it first seems, actually a necessary aid) initially acts as a drag on plot development, but ultimately provides a satisfying depth not to mention its fair share of deviants, racist old ladies and mad academics. To paraphrase Wilson, he's a governessy Pym or Spark, and most enjoyable for all that.
Can't do better than the reviewer of this edition (click on the book cover), save to praise the authentic post-war atmosphere of Wilson's writing (it was first published 1956), and his witty social and personal observations, many of which are delightfully non-PC. Throughout this, as in many of his works, the conjunction of the lives of homosexuals (during the darkest days of the great persecution of the 50s), with those of their 'respectable' contemporaries, is an unspoken undercurrent, surfacing every now and again....and culminating in part of the story's denouement.
This was a wonderful book. I went into it thinking that it would be a pointed satire in the manner of Lucky Jim, but it is really quite a different thing altogether. With a plotline that is compelling but not overbearing, it is the perfectly realized characters that draw the reader in and invest him or her fully in what is going on. I could not have less personal experience with the middle-upper crust of mid-century British society, but I thoroughly enjoyed the book from beginning to end.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: ComedySelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
Anglo-Saxon attitudes is one of the greatest English novels of the twentieth century. As a self-conscious attempt to revive the 19th century tradition of novel as social commentary it is far more successful than Bonfire of the Vanities. Wilson is a sadly neglected author with much to say about the human condition.
Oh I didn't want this to end. Can't do it justice with a small soundbite review. Turns out it was adapted for TV back in 1990 - with a small part by a young Kate Winslet. Skokie library has a copy, so I'll be intrigued to watch how they tackle it.
Overall, this was a reasonably good book. He had some nice passages, but it lacked depth — or something.In some ways the British teleplay of the book was better than the book. Which is not a good comment about a book, I think.
I enjoyed this book once I stopped trying to figure out what people were talking about, and just enjoyed the cast of characters. They were annoying, sleazy, conniving, wretched people, and so many of them I was constantly checking the handy list to keep them straight. Or not.
Apparently I read this in 1976, but wrote it down as being called "Anglo-Saxon PERSPECTIVES." As there seems to be no such book, but this is close (and by Angus Wilson), I gather this is what I actually read, and I probably wrote the name down later and remembered it incorrectly.
