https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29875363-the-fireman
Hill can’t seem to commit to one main story, and he keeps adding on to it like a late-night TV commercial promising, “But that’s not all!” This causes a lot of drift with a long swath of the book not even touching on what’s going on in the outside world and forgetting what should be major characters for long periods of time.
It’s also like one of those action movies that never seems to know when to end that goes on 20 minutes past the point where it should have wrapped things up.I also wasn’t a fan of Harper, and since this whole story is built on the idea of a plucky heroine trying to survive a civilization ending plague then I needed to have at least have some respect for her.
The people in charge can always justify doing terrible things in the name of the greater good. A slaughter here, a little torture there. It becomes moral to do things that would be immoral if an ordinary individual did ‘em. They have been trying to take us down for quite a while. Some may enjoy the end of the world (EotW) arriving in the form of an incoming asteroid. Hey, it worked for the dinosaurs. Alien invasion is always popular. Very big in the 50s, whether by maleficent alien civilization
I mean, really, a young nurse, pregnant, fleeing dark forces, while trying to figure out how dragonscale works and how it might be controlled, a woman who is the epitome of cheerful and positive, in a very bleak time, just hoping to live long enough to deliver her baby into the hands of people who can care for him or her.
John brings Harper to a place where others with ‘scale have come together, for group support and defense.
Members of the Camp Wyndham community, all with ‘scale, have found that under certain circumstances the spore allows them to join into a joyous group rapture they call The Bright.
Did you read about the bacterium that thrives in volcanoes, right on the edge of boiling rock? That's us. Humanity is a germ that thrives on the very edge of catastrophe.It shows up on your skin looking like a form of stripes. Beautiful black and gold markings. Dragonscale aka Draco Incendia Trychophyton is a contagion in which the person will end up being burned alive. There is no cure. Harper is a nurse who has been working in a hospital day and night as a volunteer, trying to help anyone with
whew..it just got hot up in this review.....The fireman takes Harper to a camp where people infected with Dragonscale have learned a few tricks to dealing with the condition.
I think this book could have lost some pages, because it is a big old chunk, it does tend to run on in some spots.
Hill told a story and I thought he did a damn fine job of it.I LOVE this type of story and I've seen people comparing it to Joe Hill's dad's book "The Stand"...I just didn't see that.
Where's my payoff for reading this enormous fucker?!In the interest of transparency, I should mention that I'm the kind of reader that gets butthurt by endings I don't understand, like, or agree with.
So. There's that.Ok, for everyone who loved this book, I hope you don't think I'm belittling Hill, or your taste.
I really loved  Locke & Key, but this is the only other thing I've read of his, and (while I think he's probably a good writer) I'm not really sure what the hell just happened here.
Yes, The Fireman is Joe Hill's book, but it is so packed full of Stephen King Easter eggs and nods to The Stand that it is impossible for me not to talk about them.
I would have loved to see something about Judas Coyne or Charlie Manx or the murder of a girl named Merrin or a couple people discussing an inflatable boy or a nod to a horror story about the Buttonboy or a comic titled Locke & Key. Hill's brand is full of fantastic lore and characters, and I feel as if he doesn't value his own work as much as he values his father's.
I don't care if in Hill's book Nick makes the hand, this is an obvious nod to how King ends The Stand.8.
”...Her left arm was sheet music. Delicate black lines spooled around and around her forearm, bars as thin as the strands of a spiderweb, with what looked like golden notes scattered across them. She found herself pulling her sleeve back to look at it every few minutes. By the end of the following week, she was sketched in Dragonscale from wrist to shoulder. When she got over feeling winded and sick, she had to admit to herself that it was curiously beautiful.” When Harper Grayson comes down wit
The contagion spreads quickly through the body, wrapping its tendrils around the skin, leaving behind these beautiful shimmering scales that eventually start to smoke until they reach a certain maturity or the person comes under a large amount of stress.
With the help of a man referred to as the Fireman, Harper finds her way to a small community of followers who have figured out how to control the disease.
On the outside of the community is a radio personality who calls himself the Marlboro Man. He has assembled a crew of executioners who travel around looking for the infected so they can eradicate them.

...THE FIREMAN IS COMING. I gave the book 4 stars because there is a part that lagged for me, but it's still awesome! I'm assuming everyone knows there is a disease going around and if you catch the spore your skin becomes dragonscale. And then later on you burst into flame! Yay! NOT! One of the main characters in the book is Harper and she is a very nice nurse. She sings to kids and people at the hospital and she's just a very nice person. She has an arse of a husband named Jakob and I loathed
One of the main characters in the book is Harper and she is a very nice nurse.
The Fireman himself doesn't make too many appearances in the book, but when he does he's always helping someone and bringing them back to the camp.
The Fireman stayed away from the camp until he was needed and there are reasons that he didn't come help when things went bad.
There are a lot of characters in the book that I really loved and some I didn't of course.
Renee, The Fireman, Allie, some really cool peeps.
I couldn't help myself - the incredible Kate Mulgrew narrated it and she also narrated Joe Hill's NOS4A2.
And scary as hell.The Fireman, is in my opinion the most sophisticated novel Joe Hill has written to date.
The main characters are extremely well developed and well written: Nurse Harper Willowes is a fierce, strong willed, standout heroine.
And even with that, I can't say that this is my favorite Joe Hill novel, though I liked it a lot.
And it is well worth the read!For me, Joe Hill's NOS4A2, was my favorite book of the last few years, no question.
A very interesting take on post-apocalyptic! Would recommend!
If you dislike unpopular opinions, then please don't read this review.I'm breaking from the pack on this one.I didn't want to, trust me. But here we are: The book I've been eagerly awaiting since I finished his five-star NOS4A2, only it wasn't.Joe Hill's THE FIREMAN.Rambling, corn-pone, cartoonish.Unlikable characters, interminable dialogue, zero forward momentum.Besides for a mild dislike of the second half of HORNS (which was basically a retelling of the first half), I'm a huge fan of Joe Hil
20th CENTURY GHOSTS is one of my all-time favorite collections, and NOS4A2 is a Top-10 novel for me.But THE FIREMAN has left this reader's love affair singed, if not in total ashes.Bear in mind, this review is coming from someone who hasn't been able to find his way to the end of a Stephen King novel since TOMMYKNOCKERS (UNDER THE DOME being the sole exception, and that just barely), so I'm likely an outlier in opinion on this one.
If you're a fan of Stephen King's output from the last couple of decades, then by all means ignore this review and go enjoy THE FIREMAN.
I was also a bit more satisfied with the ending than I thought I would be.So what's the big deal with Hill's big novel?
A survival tale against the hate and fear riddled remnants of "clean" humanity?
I really enjoyed having an 26 year old MC nurse who's pregnant and learning how to live with or become a human flamethrower.It's just not that common.Comic books aside, of course, but this novel is not a comic book origin story at all.
:) Maybe it's better because I lowered my expectations, but whatever, it's good.
Fractures within the group develop and soon Harper witnesses a mutiny, all while she tries to learn more about draco incendia trychophyton.
The invested reader will see this novel as being something other than a collection of sick individuals who are in hiding, finding parallels with the proverbial leper colony in which people are thrown when the general public is not aware or given sufficient information on which to base an educated decision.
The struggles are not unique or off the wall, though Hill effectively creates a character base to lure the reader into significant sympathy.
Picture how Donald Trump would react to people bursting into flame and how he would deal with those infected, in an effort to quell the disease.That's exactly what happens here.
Turns out Harper's husband is nothing like what she thought he was, and when she, herself, becomes infected, he makes it out to be her fault, and his true self is finally revealed.
Fighting the disease, fighting her husband, trying to fight against the spread of the 'scale, Harper is a true hero and she owns this story.
The only link with Michael Crichton that I can find in this book is Joe Hill's attempt at quasi-scientific explanation of Dragonscale and how it affects human bodies - something which he later totally throws out of the window by essentially allowing several characters to overcome its malicious effect by their own feelings, as apparently this is all what it takes (and somehow we have to believe these same characters never thought about broadcasting their solution to the problem to the entire world, but then again if they did we would not have a book to read and review).As I mentioned, people in this book not only escape death by learning to coexist with a disease that should burn them to death, but also learn how to control it and use it to their advantage.
Once infected there does not appear to be a cure and no one is entirely sure how it is spread from one person to another causing wide spread panic and the inhumane treatment of those showing signs of infection.Harper Grayson, our protagonist, is a nurse working at a local hospital when she first meets The Fireman and assists him, against the odds and hospital protocol, in getting timely medical care to a young boy in his care suffering from abdominal distress.
Her husband is convinced that Harper brought this plague upon herself and no doubt him as well, as a result of her work at the hospital.
Whilst I think it's cool that Hill gave minor nods to his dad's works in NOS4R2 (and maybe others I can't remember), he did it a bit too much here.
In the Fireman we have:A deaf person called NickA person called Harold Cross - who keeps a diaryA FrannieA pregnancyAnd probably a few others I can't quite rememberIt's not a huge problem, I just didn't want to be reminded of the greatest post apocalyptic book of all time whilst reading a post apocalyptic book.
You're going to kill someone in the next chapter so let me feel the shock of it happening as it happens in the story.
So I've read all of Joe Hill's books (other than some rare stories and some of the comics), and of course when The Fireman came out I had to get a copy immediately.
It's really easy to sink in and become attached to the characters and their situations.
I often suspected that these similarities were intentional as homage to King's book (and other works), as well as to other apocalyptic themed authors and stories.
I don't want to give away any spoilers, so it's hard to go into the story that much.
That being said, her story and that of the supporting characters, is highly recommended.
The pacing is perfect and the occasional humor makes for a very enjoyable read.Dragonscale is a sickness that is highly contagious and can cause people to spontaneously combust.
When that hospital burns down and her husband turns into a crazy person, Harper seeks out a community of others suffering from Dragonscale.This is where the book could have started to feel like other apocalypse/disaster novels, and in some ways it does - cultish community, people turning insane with power, weird religions - but these are the things I love about apocalypse books.
Joe Hill, what have you gone and done?!
I have been waiting a long time for your new book to be published and then you went and made it so good that I couldn't put it down and now I've finished it!
That was quite a trip.Joe Hill has total mastery of this story.
until you end up finishing it too soon and having a long old wait for the next book by this author.
Which is where I came in with this review and a good place to finish!
This book.....WAS OUT OF THIS WORLD AMAZING!!!Spoilers marked in review :)I was a little nervous about starting The Fireman because of how long it was.
while others catch on fire without any warning.Harper, our main character, is a nurse in this increasingly fucked messed up world who discovers the marks on her own body....
:(  (hide spoiler)]2 -  (view spoiler)[I found it a little weird how they were confessing their love for each other even though the Fireman was still keeping his dead ex's "fire spirit" (or whatever you want to call it) around.
I can blame my busy schedule or my occasional lack of interest to read, but honestly, the novel has a lot of weak spots.I read NOS4R2 by the same author and I didn't like the book that much.
I opted to rate this novel 4 stars because while there are a bunch of bad parts, the entire novel is really interesting and commendable.
I think maybe he opted for an open-ended novel, but I'm not happy with it.If you're a Sci-Fi fan and really likes novels that heavily depend on the premise and the characters to make it interesting, then this is for you.
It took me two attempts to read this.
That Hill can write is a given.
But this book doesn't have any heart.
I found myself greeting the ever more depressing and dangerous paths of the plot with little more than a shrug.
Perhaps because there was little surprise in it, the format of the book was well trodden.
I can see why people will love it, but it's far from my favourite of his books.
Still, I felt the same way about The Passage, which everybody else seemed to love, so what the hell do I know?
Washington DC and Manhatten are on fire.
The CDC has burned to the ground.
Dragonscale is the disease.
It appears on the skin as rather high-end tattoos, intricate scrollwork, the devil's handwriting in black and gold.
You may not have time to admire it for long, it is almost always a harbinger of spontaneous combustion.
You will breathe fire as you die.
Oh, those King genes!
Long may they reign!
(view spoiler)[The character name of Harold Cross must certainly be a big old tip o' the hat to Harold Lauder and Nadine Cross in The Stand.
(hide spoiler)]
You could say that it is yet another story in which the world is being ravaged by a plague of some kind, which is killing people off in their millions.
That is exactly what happens but the "plague" in this case is fresh from Joe Hill's vivid imagination and it is totally original and very cleverly done.The fireman of the title is a wonderful character - an ordinary man with super powers who does what he can to save his little bit of the world or at least some of the people in it.
I loved Harper and Nick and Allie and even Sarah who only really has one scene but it is an amazing oneThe book is long but I never felt that it faltered.
Loved it.
First of all I want to start by saying that the title The Fireman is misleading.
I was expecting a book about a mysterious fireman in the mist of a epidemic, but no the fireman wasn't mysterious at all.
With that part out of the way this book is why I wouldn't want to survive the apocalypse.
The Fireman was about the breakdown of civilization in the aftermath of a global plague.
Once I got over the fact it wasn't the type of book I thought it was I really liked it.
Who should read it is anyone who likes books about plagues apocalypses or lovers of Joe Hill books.
Hill shows us how one little piece of the world reacts to it and the consequences.
Hill even goes so far as to use actual masks to drive his point home.
One of the things I love about Hill’s father, Stephen King, is how he inserts references to his other novels in his writing.
He makes references to “forgetting the face of her father/mother” which we all know is a recurring Dark Tower theme.
That particular reference makes me feel The Fireman may take place in the DT world on a different plane of existence than ours.
I was torn on this book. While it had some stellar, 5 star+ moments (view spoiler)[Carol's maniacal but "well-meaning" take over, Carol's treatment of Harper, the Marlboro Man scenes/attacks (hide spoiler)], most of the rest was one or two star filler that would have improved the book greatly if edited down. The book is called The Fireman, but I wasn't all that into his character (view spoiler)[except maybe during the final showdown with Jacob when the spirit of his dead wife joined in the battl
I was torn on this book.
While it had some stellar, 5 star+ moments (view spoiler)[Carol's maniacal but "well-meaning" take over, Carol's treatment of Harper, the Marlboro Man scenes/attacks  (hide spoiler)], most of the rest was one or two star filler that would have improved the book greatly if edited down.
The book is called The Fireman, but I wasn't all that into his character (view spoiler)[except maybe during the final showdown with Jacob when the spirit of his dead wife joined in the battle  (hide spoiler)].I guess I just expected to be more wowed, but I found myself daydreaming a lot - not a good sign!Interesting observation - two Post-apocalyptic novels with a deaf mute hero named Nick - The Fireman and The Stand.
We know how much you love spending money on books and we are here to help you do just that!
It’s also the reality of the world and how people work.Unfortunately this was about the only aspect of the book I DID like.
It was fast-paced, intense, gripping and so well-written I wondered what the fuck happened to Joe Hill in the middle of this book.
I think that’s what happened with Joe. In the middle it was like he lost touch with the story that was trying to be told.
When the facility Harper works in goes up in flames, a direct outcome of the sick patients, its Jakob who’s her rock and comes to meet her to assure she is all right.
This might be all right for the younger characters, those that you’d expect to have a problem with childish vulgarities but the adults seemed like they’d be beyond this, especially in light of the severity of their circumstances.
Suffice it say that The Fireman will not be my favorite Joe Hill read but I won’t give up on him just yet.
Let me add my own sick pun.The Fireman did not set my world on fire.
