https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67270.Emil_and_the_Detectives
I read this German children's classic while the Greek debt drama of July 2015 was unfolding; I would finish a chapter, go to the Daily Telegraph live blog, catch up on the latest news from Brussels, then return to Emil.
The people reporting on the political story were eager to cast the Germans, particularly the hardline Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble, as the villains.
I read many pieces about how Schäuble was imposing unreasonable and humiliating conditions on the Greeks, and when one looked at poor Euclid Tsakalotos it was indeed difficult not to feel sorry for him.
Oh, phew! I was really worried there for quite a few pages.So many aspects of the book are highly realistic, Emil's personality and relationship with his mother, and their money worries, that I was afraid that in the end (view spoiler)[there would be a realistic ending in which it turned out Emil had been mistaken as to the identity of the thief, or as would probably happen in real life the adults would dismiss the boys and the villain would escape unpunished. Thank goodness the children triumphed! (hide spoiler)].
The most unusual aspect of the novel, compared to existing children's literature at the time, was that it was realistically set in a contemporary Berlin peopled with some fairly rough characters, not in a sanitized fantasy world; also that it refrained from obvious moralizing, letting the characters' deeds speak for themselves.The story begins in Neustadt, a provincial German town which is the home to young schoolboy Emil Tischbein.
On the train to Berlin, Emil meets a mysterious man who introduces himself as Max Grundeis.
یک دزدی ساده است اما نیاز به داشتن برنامه و برنامه ریزی برای حل مشکلات را به نوجوانان یادآوری میکند.
My review will thus be in two parts (first, general musings on Emil's Berlin escapades as a whole, gleaned mostly from my review of the German original, as the general themes and my issues with some of them remain the same, and then a more in-depth analysis of this particular recent English language translation, and why I personally consider it majorly substandard in every way).GENERAL THOUGHTS ON ERICH KÄSTNER'S EMIL AND THE DETECTIVES (BASED ON THE GERMAN ORIGINAL)First published in 1929, Erich Kästner's Emil und die Detektive (Emil and the Detectives in English translations) especially and brilliantly sparkles and glows with its sense of time and place, with its urban realism, its palpably authentic and genuine representation and description of Berlin (the actual capital city of the Germany of the Weimar Republic, a lively and throbbing modern metropolis, and not some vague environs set in either a magical present or a distant historical past).
This was a book that I remember from my youth like, Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn, Brer Rabbit and a wooden horse who collected money somehow and worked down a pit and went to war.
Written in 1928 it is chilling to think that this was a youth that went on to be soldiers in World War II.Still it is a timeless children's novel and a perfect medium to encourage young people to read for themselves.
শৈশবের গলপগুলো বোধহয় পৃথিবীর সবখানেই এক। সব ছেলেমেয়েরই ছোটবেলায় গোয়েনদাগিরি করার শখ চাপে! হোক সেটা বাংলাদেশ কিংবা জারমানি! শিশুসাহিতয পড়লেই বযাপারটা সপষট ধরা পড়ে!"এমিলের গোয়েনদা দল" গলপের পলটটা খুব সুনদর! লকষমী ছেলে এমিল টিশবাইন কিভাবে মায়ের দেয়া পাউনড হারিয়ে আবার সেটা উদধার করে আর কিভাবে বারলিন শহরের ছেলেপুলেদের খুব বনধু হয়ে যায় সেই গলপ। কিশোর বয়সে সবার সাথে বনধুতব হয়ে যায় খুব সহজে। তা না হলে চেনেনা জানেনা এমন একজনকে সাহাযয করতে গুসতভ এক কথায় রাজি হয়ে যায় কিভাবে?! খুব হমবিতমবি করলেও গুসতভ ছেলেট
শৈশবের গল্পগুলো বোধহয় পৃথিবীর সবখানেই এক। সব ছেলেমেয়েরই ছোটবেলায় গোয়েন্দাগিরি করার শখ চাপে!
লক্ষ্মী ছেলে এমিল টিশবাইন কিভাবে মায়ের দেয়া পাউন্ড হারিয়ে আবার সেটা উদ্ধার করে আর কিভাবে বার্লিন শহরের ছেলেপুলেদের খুব বন্ধু হয়ে যায় সেই গল্প। কিশোর বয়সে সবার সাথে বন্ধুত্ব হয়ে যায় খুব সহজে। তা না হলে চেনেনা জানেনা এমন একজনকে সাহায্য করতে গুস্তভ এক কথায় রাজি হয়ে যায় কিভাবে?!
খুব হম্বিতম্বি করলেও গুস্তভ ছেলেটার মনটা খুব ভাল!
তাই এমিল গোয়েন্দাগিরি করতে গিয়ে খরচ হয়ে যাওয়া টাকা ফেরত দিতে চাইলে বলে, "দেয়ার চেষ্টা করে দেখো একবার!" আর আছে মিষ্টি ছেলে টুয়েসডে, বর্ণ লীডার প্রফেসর!আমার শুধু পনিকে ভাল্লাগেনাই। তাই চারতারা।

How sorry I am that I didn’t read this delightful little book sooner!Considering the book was first released in 1929, this tale of a poor boy who loses a large sum, but is aided in its recovery, has aged magnificently.
Author Erich Kästner creates amazingly believable characters — particularly boys thoroughly enjoying being boys like Emil, Gustav, Crumbagel, the Professor, Petzold, grumpy Truegut, and little Tuesday — but also the long-suffering Mrs. Tabletoe and Emil’s smart-alecky grandmother and his bicycle-crazed, feisty cousin “Pony the Hat” Heimbold.
(view spoiler)[Erich Käster includes himself as one of the journalists who interview the victorioius Emil in Chapter 15.
Emil and his new friends tracking and then apprehending the scoundrel who had robbed Emil of his money clearly and succinctly demonstrates to ALL (including parents, including adults) that the young are NOT (and should never be) mere bastions of inactivity and quietude (to be seen but not heard, to be sitting silently and attentively at school, at church or at home), but that children can do, that if they join forces and work together, they can (at least within the confines of this story) even take the job of the authorities, of adult detectives (and that there is safety and comfort in numbers, that as a team, collectively, much can be accomplished).That being said, and even though I realise that from all of Erich Kästner's children's novels, Emil und die Detektive remains his most famous and well known (especially in North America and Great Britain, especially in translation), there are some rather major and unfortunate issues with datedness and stratified gender roles present.
Ir tik interesanti pieaugušā vecumā pārlasīt bērnības dienu grāmatas. Šobrīd liekas, ka Emīls ir totāls gnīda, lai gan bērnībā tā nepavisam nelikās.
This is more like a review-by-proxy of Emil and the detectives.I watched a program on youtube in which Marcel Reich-Ranicki, without doubt the most famous German literary critc of his time, is talking about German authors; this time about Erich Kästner.
They both read the "book" many times, while hearing Germans shooting and Jews screaming on the streets of the ghetto.
When he showed Kästner the "illegal" copy of his book that was read in the Warshaw Ghetto the author had no idea that his works (banned and burned by the Nazis) were read outside of Germany during the war.
As funny and delightful as ever. It was one of my favourite comfort-reads as a child and it did not disappoint the grown-up me either.
There are two things that strike me in particular: the ability and sense of responsibility of the children to organise themselves and the hero's sense of responsibility towards his mother and his family - not surprising given als ich ein kleiner Junge war.It's a simple story of a boy from a small town going to visit relatives in the big city. Entertaining and engaging. The hero's fear of going to the police because he had drawn a mustache on a statue always felt realistic to me as a child.
This review is for the wonderful Scholastic edition, not the rotten 2007 edition .
For the review of the horrible 2007 edition, check the Scholastic cover.
Sheesh.Aaaaahhhh, that's better.This is the translation of Emil that I grew up reading.
My brother bought it from Scolastic back in the late 60s and I read it over and over again.
Fast forward 3 or 4 decades and I bought it on Amazon.
Or thought I bought it on Amazon.
Unfortunately it never occurred to me that this classic would be descrated with a "modernised" translation.
Along the way, he meets up with a group of boys (the detectives) and together they set out to trap the thief.I've been reading a book called '501 Must-Read Books' and when it mentioned 'Emil and the Detectives', my primary school days came flooding back.
It's not a mystery as such because there's only ever one suspect, but it was still interesting to see how the boys trapped him and how Emil proved the money was his.
The original illustrations and snippets of information about different characters also add to the charm.I'm not sure if I ever did finish this book in primary school or if I just remember seeing it.
"Emil und die Detektive" ist natürlich so gut wie jedem ein Begriff, allerdings habe ich die Geschichte selber zum ersten Mal gelesen.
Wer bisher so wie ich nur die Verfilmung aus den 90ern kennt, wird wahrscheinlich überrascht sein, dass im ganzen Buch nur ein Mädchen vorkommt, nämlich Pony Hütchen.
Anders als im Film ist sie aber nicht das Gegenstück zu Emil, die ihm in Sachen Mut in nichts nachsteht, sondern"bloß" die Cousine, die den Jungs Brötchen vorbei bringt.
Natürlich liegt das daran, dass das Buch fast 100 Jahre alt ist, aber es stört mich trotzdem, dass an dem richtigen Abenteuer nur die Jungs teilnehmen durften.
This book haunts me.
In a few short years their lives will be completely changed.
No more individualism or self determination, but instead a rigorous recruiting into an ideology of race superiority and military might.
In this children’s book, there are many clues to how this may have come about.
There are also startling differences between the children detectives in Berlin and the Hitler Youth they will become.
Even though the society is being primed for a radical change, Emil and the Detectives is full of moments of loyalty to others, ingenuity, and individualism, which sets it apart from the world of a dictator’s control.
From BBC radio 4 - Saturday Drama:Dramatisation by Katie Hims of the comic children's detective novel by Erich Kaestner.Country boy Emil Tischbein, up from Neustadt for the first time, enlists the aid of hundreds of Berlin street boys to help him catch a thief.
The introduction to this book confidently tells us how the story has been faithfully translated from German and in no way loses any of the excitement, thrill or adventure had by our main character, Emil.
I love this book, I love the detective story that unfolds and the way Erich Kastner, the author, stops to address the reader with extra, necessary explanations about the behaviour or motives of the characters.
Ach Erich Kästner ist schon ne knorke Autor, nicht? Ich liebe einfach seinen Schreibstil, weise und witzig und mit soviel Herz! Emil und die Detektive ist eine wunderbare Geschichte voller Freundschaft, Abenteuer, Mut und Bescheidenheit!

Erich Kastner had written Emil and the Detectives originally in German.
But during Hitler's time, his books were branded anti-german and several copies consigned to flames.
Luckily, the book outlasted those dark times and Emil survived to spy another day.
Emil is one of the first fictional child detectives.
Emil and his friends co-operate with each other, stick together and contribute to the decision making process, ultimately leading to the thief's capture.
The book is an indisputable classic - a must read for children as well as grown up children.
Pony, the girl cousin with the bicycle, is the most energetic and brave of all, but is delighted to be the one to make coffee and serve rolls to the boys, and to serve the cause primarily as liaison to the adults.
The boys have entirely too much freedom...
However, if I shut down my negative attitude, I can see that it is fun, funny, charming, and altogether a book that many adult fans of children's classics would indeed still enjoy.Just don't get it confused with the Emil stories of Astrid Lindgren.
That Emil is much more mischievous and alive, and is a bit younger, too.
Erich Kastner captures the rambunctiousness and excitement of youth as he leads the readers through the adventures of Emil as he joins with a team of organized street detectives who are mere children as they spy on the man who robbed Emil whilst he slept.
Kastner's sense of humor pervades the story from the beginning as he vexes over coming up with a plot, and his sense of humor keeps the story from drifting into the realm of generic feel-good tales where all will be well.Favorite quotes:"Because a man can write only things he knows and has seen.""Of course, as a rule, you should think the best of anyone until you know something to prove the contrary."
A nostalgic hour on ebay left me with a Cathy Dennis cd, a box of panini stickers, and a beautiful 1964 paperback of Emil and the Detectives.On the introduction page it reads "Forward readers of eight could tackle it, while those in their early teens still enjoy it without wanting to disguise the fact" Well i first read when 9 or 10.
And 20 years later it is still an exciting and charming read.
Is this a common name in Germany?!
I read this when I was about 10, and it was fun reading it again, and a change from that other, grimmer Berlin detective, Bernie Gunther... I feel sad, though, when I reflect that of all the little boys (and girls, of course) that read it in 1929 in German, and then in 1931 in England when it came out here, many would have been at war with each other 10 years later when they were young men. We were all innocent children once ...
Zwei Zitate noch, die es, finde ich, wert sind weitergetragen zu werden:"Dass es Leute gibt, die immer sagen: Gott, früher war alles besser, das wusste Emil längst.
Und er hörte überhaupt nicht mehr hin, wenn jemand erklärte, früher sei die Luft gesünder gewesen oder die Ochsen hätten größere Köpfe gehabt.
Denn das war meistens nicht wahr, und die Leute gehörten bloß zu der Sorte, die nicht zufrieden sein wollen, weil sie sonst zufrieden wären."Emil, als ein Junge seine Heimatstadt beleidigt: "Nimm das zurück!
Sonst kleb ich dir eine, dass du scheintot hinfällst." (Ich finde, den Spruch könnte man in das eigene Repertoire aufnehmen ^^)
I'm grateful I found it in #bigbadwolfsurabaya ..Emil lived with his mother.
His father passed away long time ago so Emil's mother worked hard for both of them.
In the train Emil lost the money his mother had earned so hard.
Gak kebayang kan zaman sekarang :D ..Emil anak yg pengertian.
Ketika uang yg didapat ibunya dgn susah payah selama berbulan-bulan untuk diberikan pada nenek hilang, Emil merasa sangat bersalah.
Emil juga anak yg tahu balas budi.
Emil juga mengembalikan uang yg dipinjamnya dari orang hotel...Rekomended 😊 mengingat buku ini sudah lama banget edisi terjemahannya.
Semoga Emil dicetul atau teman-teman nemu bukunya.
I always loved this old movie about a boy and a robbery in old Berlin growing up so I gave the book to a son for his birthday years ago. I finally read it aloud to the younger kids and found it delightful! Cute characters with an honest look into the mind and actions of boys. Too bad I can’t pronounce all the German words correctly. This one kept us reading late into the night.
Wieso gibts das einzeln nicht auf Deutsch hier?
