https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10035.The_Transcendence_of_the_Ego
I vividly remember spending about an hour on 5-7 pages of this work, only really taking in a minor dose of information in that stretch of time.The main crux of this book is Sartre's rejection of the then dominant psychology, Freud's ego psychology, which sought to split the mind or the 'Unconscious' into parts (the famous ID, Ego and Superego).
Sartre takes on from Husserl's work, focusing specifically on his 'Cartesian Meditations', adapting this revolutionary phenomenological method, but rejecting Husserl's implication that the I is a formal structure of consciousness.Simply put, for Sartre, consciousness simply is.
From a phenomenological point of view this is by far, the most original work of Sartre.
Sarte language was so difficult to me, I think it's deeper than my knowledge. Also this boom is very important for knowing Ego. Must read.
so here is the first...I'll give the book 3 because even translated he's a far better writer than I am, but otherwise, I am not a fan and I don't understand how others aren't finding it a little annoying....I can see why Satre has to come up in a world concerned w/ #AlternativeFacts.
Aside from the obvious, e.g. only old white dudes with beards get to participate meaningfully in the discipline, let's talk about how obnoxious it is for philosophy to draw convenient lines of separation from other disciplines that use to be a part of it and might therefore be relevant.
Satre is like, yeah, she's scared of freedom because she hasn't experienced it....
All consciousness is positional in that it transcends itself in order to reach an object, and it exhausts itself in this same positing.”It seems to me that one of Sartre’s main goals is to strip everything away from bare naked existence to find what is left at the core, and what seems to be left for Sartre is the pre-reflective cogito, or positional consciousness-of a transcendental object, or perhaps also as he states, pure appearance, which to me all speaks of a razor thin transaction of information passing (as appearance) from an object to a subject.
Definitely a book that shows that Sartre owes a debt to Husserl, Descartes, and Kant.
It takes a rather subtle turn towards Buddhism and I dig it towards the end.
The first forty pages or so are really about sorting out his differences with Husserl and explaining where he disagrees.
Since it is only about 110 pages the last half of the book is the most interesting because he puts forward a totally unique conception of the ego.
Can be read in one sitting, but it takes repeated readings to fully absorb all of it.
Sartre's take on the consciousness as purely spontaneous and without any trace of I or I-concept is suspiciously similar to some of the Buddhist rendering of consciousness: the ego as the transcendent unity of all psychic states and actions "constructed" by the reflecting consciousness and located only in the reflected consciousness; sth outside the pure spontaneous autonomic consciousness.
Nevertheless, Sartre's theory of the ego is one step further than Husserl's transcendental ego and the forceful unity of reflecting and reflected consciousness.
At least, in Sartre's rendering, ego is no long part of consciousness, nor owner of consciousness, but merely an transcendent object of the reflecting consciousness.
في داخل كل نفس مغاور واتجاهات قد تشعر بها وقد تحدث في اللاشعور ، قد ترغب وقد تمتنع ، قد تعطي نفسك بتعالي لأنك موجود وقد تكسبها العدم بلا وعي .هل الوعي متأمل تشعر به ، هل هو موجود في الذات أم في الفكر ..؟!هل أنا مجرد رغبات تتمثل في الذات على شكل وجود ، أو على شكل فكره ، أوعلى شكل آخر ..؟!صراع بين سارتر ونظرية هوسرل ، ونظرة فلسفية أعمق بكثير من شرحها بسهولة ..كتاب يحتاج الكثير من التركيز ، ويعطيك فرصة للتأمل فيك .
I first read this book in a hipster haze in the FSU Honors Dorm. I gained nothing from it but a smug sense of satisfaction as I glanced at it on my bookshelf, taunting me. I did not understand it. I do not understand Sartre. There, I said it. A fitting admission the day I realized I have been out of college for longer than I was in college - tear. Need to try it again.
هذا الكتاب هو باكورة مؤلفات سارتر" وهو محاولة لوضع فلسفته الخاصة في فينومينولوجيا الوجود مُستخدماً ف
Sartre utilizes the tenets of phenomenology (primarily intentionality of consciousness) to reveal the fictional nature of the I within experience.
According to Sartre, the ego or I is "given through reflective consciousness" (51), as a modification of the spontaneous consciousness of the Erlebnis.
In the end, this 'radical' thought of Sartre's impersonal consciousness embedded in the world seems not so different from the lifeworld of the late Husserl and of Merleau-Ponty.
But Sartre seems to take as given that the object of intentionality, of intuition, is the thing itself - that it is not an abstaction or conceptually formulated 'essence.' He inherits this naivety directly from Husserl.
Σημαντικό βιβλίο για την αντίληψη απόψεων και θεωριών που αφορούν το "εγώ" μας. Ακόμα και να κάποια στοιχεία του ξεπερνούν τυχόν προσδοκίες ή υπάρχουν για να καλύπτουν τα κενά στη γνώση, ο Σαρτρ επιτίθεται σε όλους και σε ολα. Διαμορφώνει άποψη για το θέμα, δημιουργεί καταστάσεις και καταλήγει σε λογικά συμπεράσματα σχετικά με το ζητούμενο. Κάπου ανάμεσα σε ολα αυτά, υπάρχουν και στοιχεία που ο καθένας μας θα έπρεπε να αναλογιστεί, οχι απαραίτητα για να αναθεωρήσει τα κεκτημένα, αλλά για να αντιμετωπίσει μια ανασκόπηση ακόμα πιο ιδιαίτερη.
Someone just got a little based.
The introduction by the translators are a great help for me to grasp the outline of Husserl's transendental Ego that Sarte is reacting against.In short, Sarte argues that the Cogito is not behind the synthetic unity of consciousness, but rather the synthetic unity of consciousness is what makes the Cogito possible in the first place.
It is a transcendent object just like the other intentional objects."[…] the ego is neither formally nor materially in consciousness: it is outside, in the world.
It is a being of the world, like the ego of another"The essay is said to be Sarte's turn away from Husserl's phenomenology to his own Existentialism.
It is important to understand his phenomenological views in order to fully understand where he is coming from and what he means, especially when dealing with his essay on the phenomenological psychology of the imagination, The Imaginary, and his phenomenological essay on ontology, Being and Nothingness.
If there is one thing that you should get from this work, it is that all positional consciousness of an object is a non-positional consciousness of itself.
This work is essentially Sartre hybridizing phenomenology and ontology.
fun evidence of Satre’s complex rejection of husserl’s phenomenology, fun if you have read him before and after and have critically read husserl and have read much history of philosophy, not so much fun if you have not read philosophy before. but it is short...
I really enjoy this little book. I am drawn to the central thesis of pre-personal consciousness discovering/creating an 'I.' Next task: See if I can figure out if that thesis is true.
I'd like to say I could follow everything Sartre is offering in this work, but I'd be lying!
This suggests to me that that I should read some Husserl now, so I'm thankful in this regard that I have read Transcendence - it has prompted me to expand my understanding of phenomenology and consciousness in general.
This will definitely be something I refer back to once I have become more enlightened as to the subject matter in general.
With that said, I do not suggest that reading Transcendence was a waste of time for me.
Sartre's break with phenomenology in Transcendence of The Ego illuminates the larger and more important themes in Being and Nothingness. Especially profound is his focus on the mind being one, undivided unit that experiences and understands the world. This essay is important for understanding Sartre's later work. However, philosophical issues aside (which would take much more space and time to properly go through), this essay is not particularly engaging and is at points hard to follow. Recommended solely for those who have strong interest in Sartre and those that follow in his footsteps.
I don't know why I read this all the way to the end. All I proved to myself is that I don't care whether things really exist or not. I also found that I don't believe that philosophers should ever use the terms "obviously" or "it follows that" because no, they don't necessarily follow at all. Whether anything objectively exists or not might be important if I didn't actually have to live in the world, but I think in reality, if I thought about that all of the time, I would get sick.
L'abbrivo della filosofia di Sartre è una critica della fenomenologia husserliana approntata (negli stessi anni in cui sappiamo Lévinas al lavoro sulla ridefinizione del concetto di "essere") per fare breccia nell'esistenzialismo attraverso la proposta di una rinnovata egologia che assuma il concetto-oggetto di "Ego" alla sua base.
This book was a little over my head. Also, Sartre has the annoying habit of using "obviously" or "clearly" in lieu of a more lucid explanation. Maybe some of the ideas he explores are "obvious" to other philosophers and maybe they're the intended audience of this book, but I felt the explanations were a little thin at points.
It's interesting to me that Sartre comes to a similar conclusion about the lack of subject/object duality in consciousness as Hindu thought, wherein samadhi grants this experience. In the meditative tradition, it's a mystical experience, the result of accomplished meditation; in Sartre, it's the search for a phemenologically-based formulation of the ego.
Amazing book, though not for the light philosophy reader. Definitely need a little Kant and Descartes and Husserl under your belt. I struggled through this in my undergrad, but re-read a few months ago with little effort.
I loved this book. Sartre's explanation of non-positional consciousness really challenged my thought that inherent in every conscious act is an "I", which synthesizes and processes phenomenal information. I think this could be applied to Eastern philosophy quite easily.
I have a lot of thoughts on this book, and would like to write a response that would seek to describe the way improvisation relates to "action" in the existentialist tradition. As soon as I get my thoughts straight on this subject, I'll post the writing on my blog.
difficult read, far too technical for me at this point. main takeaway was distinguishing your observing self from your doing self. the difference between reading a book and picturing yourself reading a book.
current "externalist" position in the philosophy of mind doesn't mention sartre much, but this continental philosopher's perspective makes better readings than his anglo-american analytic counterparts.
As much as it pains me to admit it, this one was over my head. I trudged through over half of it but finally decided that the little bit I was getting wasn't worth the effort of continuing. Hopefully, in a few years I'll be able to return to this and read it like it's a Harry Potter novel.
He made a few remarkable notes in this essay. a little bit tough read, and there were some words that the editor could've explained but he/she didn't..
