https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228857.The_Many_Loves_of_Dobie_Gillis
Imagine if PG Wodehouse wrote stories about a girl-crazy freshman at the University of Minnesota, circa late 1940s.
That's kind of what reader will find in The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis.
I loved the silly humor, the archaic slang ("Wow-dow", "he fractures me", etc), the presence of this world that was so obviously different from mine.
Every story pivots on Dobie's relationship with a girl, and more often than not he's the one being led around by the ear, a bobby-soxed captain at the helm.
(A lot of the other stuff was more bawdy than absurd.)Read The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis.
No, these stories are of different Dobie Gillis’s going to college for different majors and infatuated with different girls.
Zelda from the TV show is missing by name, but one story has a Zelda prototype character, with as zany an attraction to Dobie.
In the TV show, Maynard is sort of like Dobie’s Tyler Durden in a story that would be called “Loafing Club”.
(If anyone writes a thesis about how Dobie and Maynard were the precursors to the Narrator and Tyler Durden in “Fight Club”, please acknowledge you got the idea in this review, thanks.) While I miss Maynard and the countervailing concept he represented, these stories didn’t need him.
Dobie was typically a freshman or sophomore during these tales, and ran through women like water through a sieve.
I’d like to quote the beginning: “The stories in this volume have appeared in “Good Housekeeping,” the “Saturday Evening Post,” “Today’s Woman,” and “American Magazine.” They are, therefore, clean and wholesome narratives, quite suitable for the parsonage library…Mean, small, captious, and niggling readers will notice certain discrepancies in the following stories.
In some of them, for example, Dobie Gillis is a freshman; in others he is a sophomore.
But to the intelligent, greathearted, truly American readers, they will be matters of no consequence.” The only other book I’ve read by Schulman was, “Rally ‘Round the Flag Boys,” of which I remember nothing.
Originally published in the early 1950s, these short stories are sweet, funny, and quaint without seeming irrelevant.Dobie Gillis is the title character and the thread that connects these stories, though his character isn't set in stone and the stories aren't chronological or necessarily consistent.
In all of them, he's an incurably optimistic and hopelessly romantic college student, but that's about it -- each of the stories is a different take on that basic character.
They certainly keep Dobie on his toes!I received a complimentary copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for my honest review.
The Many Loves of Donie Gillis by Max Schulman is a free NetGalley estorybook that I read during a blood drive in late December. Having been a mild fan of Dobie Gillis reruns on Nick at Nite, I figured I'd take a look at the short stories/articles.I had no earthly idea that Dobie Gillis was from Minnesota and filled his dancecard with girls from the U of M! That made it a kitschy, hometown, familiar read for sure.
I was a teenager when I read this book and Doby and I had so much in common! We were both absolute nobodies, lower middle-class, moody. And worst of all, he and I both kept falling in love with a new gorgeous girl every few weeks. Of course the girls accepted our adorations because it was good for their ego, but refused to go out with us because they wouldn't stoop that low. This book made my high school years a bit more bearable.
http://namebrandketchup.wordpress.com...This book shaped my early moral judgments and taught me how to appreciate and write humor. It's an example of what I've read as the "Bullwinkle phenomenon": it's funny at age 15, more funny at age 25, and flat out hilarious at age 50. I reviewed it in my blog. Feel free to take a look.
I was devastated when my Bat Masterson cane broke.There was Lassie, The Adventures of Rin Tin Tin, Sea Hunt, Sky King, Phil Silvers, Rocky & Bullwinkle, Dennis the Menace, Robin Hood, Dick Van Dyke, Make Room for Daddy, Kukla, Fran, and Ollie, My Friend Flicka, Shirley Temple's Storybook, I've Got A Secret, Donna Reed, Topper, Mr. Wizard, Art Linkletter, 77 Sunset Strip, Alfred Hitchcock, Candid Camera-- And Saturday Night at the Movies.How I found time to color a page in my coloring book or cut out a paper doll with all that television watching I don't know.And I watched Dobie Gillis.
These TV adaptations by Max Shulman, drawn from and inspired by his short story collection, were smart, insightful, funny and even a bit edgy.
Shulman was sharp, on point and in top form when he wrote these stories, and many of them read like a master class in dry, deadpan quality 50's humor writing.It's not particularly original with me, but it bears repeating that the Dobie Gillis stories mark a clear bridge between the placid 50's and the turmoil of the 60's.
This is a well written, smart, funny and sly collection of shrewdly observed short stories.
This book was pretty fun in the innocent, wholesome white-bread and apple-pie 1940s sort of way.
(Who are excellent-but-dead musicians, of course, and these days aren't exactly the sort of sound that college freshmen geek out over.)The protagonist of the title is pretty much of a curve-watching, hormone-driven, crew-cutted, slacking lad of young college age, still living at home, which was pretty much the fashion back then, borrowing Dad's car, and never managing to keep a buck in his pocket.My favorite character from the TV series was Maynard G.
If the TV show starring Dwayne Hickman and Bob Denver is what comes to mind when The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis is mentioned, perhaps you’ll be surprised to learn, as I was, that the show was actually based on a series of short stories published in Good Housekeeping, Cosmopolitan, Saturday Evening Post, Today’s Woman, and American Magazine.
Part of me was expecting more along the lines of the TV show that debuted in 1959 or even, perhaps, a book along the lines of Kathryn Forbes’ Mama’s Bank Account.The stories, like the TV show, focus on Dobie’s interest in the fairer sex and juggling life, college, and women.
I read this after discussion with a friend about the TV show that was based on this book, a collection of eleven short stories.
Where the TV show explored issues other then just Dobie's love life, the book doesn't.The eleven short stories in the book are not interconnected in any way, other then the main character.
In each of the stories Dobie is smitten with a beautiful girl at first sight.
I would have enjoyed the stories more if they had been linked together with Dobie gaining wisdom, albeit slowly, along the way.
The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis by Max Shulman is being re-released.
I loved Duane Hickman as Dobie on TV when I was a kid, and read these stories when I was a bit older.
Will my trip be one shared by the teens of today?The lovable Dobie Gillis was always looking for an angle.
I just love the stories and find them hilarious.
So, here is the question: The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis was written in the 40's and 50's.
I love them and hope others will as well.
Several of you mentioned Bob Denver's character Maynard G.
Except for this: these are a series of stories about a girl-crazy teenager.
Almost everything.When Max Shulman wrote the Dobie Gillis stories the one thing he wasn't concerned with was consistency.
(That was only one story in the bunch.) If he needed Dobie to be majoring in biology, he was a biology major.
There is one story that has a character that is almost Zelda, but not by that name.
There's a second book of Dobie Gillis stories: I Was a Teen-aged Dwarf.
And Maynard is about the best character that Bob Denver did.
But read the stories.
When I was a young man, I very much enjoyed the TV show, "The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", starring Dwayne Hickman, Bob Denver, and Tuesday Weld.
(I had such a crush on Tuesday Weld.) So I was excited to run across the book of collected short stories upon which the series was based.
The stories are delightful and funny, and I can often hear (and imagine) Dwayne Hickman mouthing the words that I am reading.
However, if you can suspend your need for things always being the consistent, I think that you will (like me) thoroughly enjoy this entertaining collection of tales.
Light, pleasurable collection of short stories that previously appeared in popular magazines during the late forties and early fifties.
Krebs or Zelda appear in these stories, though Thalia Menninger (the name of Tuesday Weld's character) appears as one of his many loves.In note at the beginning of the book Shulman says, "Mean, small, captious, and niggling readers will notice certain discrepancies in the following stories.
In some he is seventeen years old; in others eighteen; in others nineteen.These tiny variations will be noticed, as I said, by mean, small, captious, and niggling readers.
But to the intelligent, greathearted, truly American reader, they will be matters of no consequence."
We all need a good laugh now and again and this short story collection is full of these.
Some of you may have read books by Max Shulman – I did, long ago and far away, and remember after these years and many thousands of books later how funny that one was – what was its name?
I’m not sure if it’s exactly PC – isn’t it hard to tell these days?
It’s right here waiting to be read…by you!
And I guarantee if you read two stories in the evening, you’ll feel better in the morning…just give me a call if you’re not.
Dobie Gillis is an intelligent but hapless character forever becoming infatuated with every good-looking woman ("girl," in the parlance of the times) he meets, and having to live terrible lies so they will be attracted to him.
I even see on Goodreads that it's out as a comic book.Everyone's taste in humor is different, but I just loved this.
His voice doesn't have the same archness that Dwayne Hickman displayed in the 50s-60s tv series, but he does a great job with the slang and the general craziness.
Krebs, but Thalia Menninger is here, and Dobie finds a new love--always the love of his life--as he ditches school and responsibilities and follows his heart in each story.
Lively pacing; vivid characterizations; not much happening in the plot (essentially every chapter involves a new love and an escapade that lands him in trouble from which he must extricate himself); 50s humor, pop culture, and slang; and a lighthearted tone.
Nostalgia for those of us who fondly remember the series.
Isn't this book just marvy?
But, each of Dobie's stories made me smile and chuckle, especially at the "punchlines" toward the end of each of his adventures.
Overall, it was a cute book to read and I highly recommend it as a light, fluffy read.
(Just don't forget to read the author's note at the beginning -- he addresses the inconsistencies in the stories.) Oh, one other thing, I wish there had been more to read.
I want more Dobie Gillis stories.
I'm sure you'll feel the same after finishing the book.
Really, just marvy!
Although Dobie spends all his time chasing after women, these are funny dating/crush/college stories -- not the stories of a sexual predator.
My fave was "love as a fallacy" in which Dobie teaches his date mathematical logic in an attempt to make her into the perfect wife (like Pygmalion) only to have this fail with a very nice twist of fate.
I guess when the TV show arrived in 1959, beatniks were better known.
Well, if I had read any of the reviews below, I would have known this.
WARNING: This books bears almost NO relationship to the 1950s tv series of the same name--There is NO Maynard G Krebs.That being said, this is an enjoyable little collection.
There are no big messages in any of the stories, no lessons taught or learned, no in-depth characterizations.
These are light, breezy little stories that pretty much epitomize a large segment of literature of the time.Be prepared for some whiplashing, though.
In one story, Dobie's dad runs a grocery store, in another, he's a baker.
At one point, Dobie is a journalism major, then a chemistry major, then...well, you get the idea.
Recommended by Elinor Lipman, I must agree with her that this is very funny stuff.
Not that Elinor and I have been talking, she recommended this in her book.
Each of these stories features Dobie although his major changes, his focus on attractive women is constant.
Trouble has a way of finding Dobie but he is also pretty good at squirming out of trouble.
All of these stories are entertaining.
Max Shulman has a way of structuring the stories that, even if you can see the ending, getting there is a wonderful trip.
I had been a big fan of The Dobie Gillis Show when I was a kid, and, if I recall correctly, I think Andy Cohen mentioned this book as a favorite in his autobiography, so I thought this would be a fun book to read.
I was fortunate to receive an advance copy of the re-issue of this book, and both my husband and I read it and enjoyed it on our vacation.
It was a nice trip back in time to a more innocent time, and it was a pleasure to read.
I think other fans of the TV show would enjoy it as well.
This was an amusing set of stories featuring the same main character, Dobie Gillis, who is basically the same character in each story, only with a slightly different setting, plot and character background. All of the stories feature a similar storyline, with Gillis pursuing the affections of a young coed. Shulman writes clever, witty dialogue and sets each story in the 1940's college scene. Don't expect Maynard Krebs to pop up, but these fun little tales are sure to elicit a wry smile.
Why did I even read this book? Because my husband read it & said it was surprisingly good....& he was right as usual! I`m old enough to remember the show in reruns, (I was never that interested in it), but this book is funny & often insightful if not a tad dated. I highly recommend it for us 50 something & up folks who want some nostalgic humor in their lives.
Why did I even read this book? Because my husband read it & said it was surprisingly good....& he was right as usual! I`m old enough to remember the show in reruns, (I was never that interested in it), but this book is funny & often insightful if not a tad dated. I highly recommend it for us 50 something & up folks who want some nostalgic humor in their lives.
A collection of short stories from around the 50s featuring varying Dobie Gillis' wooing a beautiful girl. Made into a book from magazine stories each Dobie varies a little in each story -- sometimes smart, sometimes weak, usually a freshman -- and tries to win a girl. The situations are comical and amusing. I enjoyed spreading the stories out over the year. Very funny.
A fun, quick read. If you enjoyed the TV show, you'll enjoy this. Most of the women are portrayed as airheads, but that was ok, this isnt a deep novel. And Dobie himself is not always put in the kindest light. I laughed out loud quite a bit :) Now I have to find out which of his books includes Maynard.
I was familiar with this title from the old TV show. There's no Maynard G. Krebs but there are plenty of wacky antics about college life. Each chapter can be read alone and each chapter ends with a funny little twist.
I loved this as a teenager and suspect that was the right age! It is still reasonably entertaining but just too superficial to keep my interest when there are so many other reads. Sometimes it is better not to revisit an old favorite.
