https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400270.We_Can_Build_You
The building of simulacra, the automation of the realistic, though artificial representation of life, is a recurring motif in Dick’s work, but it is like Bradbury’s Mars, not intended at realism, but as a vehicle to explore something else.
And while she could be seen (in my certainly unique comparison) as a caricature of Dominique Francon, this Pris shares with We Can Build You the humanistic impressionism that serves as the counter-point to Rand’s strident objectivism.
He does this not only through his exploration of big themes and ideas, but also through clever beginnings.I love the idea that the company that starts making simulacra in this novel was a small, Western electronic organ company that is trying to schlep its organs to various people using sleazy sales practices.
Anyway, the simulacrum idea is the catalyst that Dick uses to explore his often examined ideas about what it means to be alive, human and to love.
I adore that both Lincoln and Stanton appear both just as alive and probably more rational than most of the humans they are interacting with.
She comes up with a new idea for their business, since organs aren't selling so well anymore.
She suggests they sell civil war simulacra and they begin with Edward M.
Chip and their scholarly father run the organ factory that is failing to sell organs and they are convinced to begin the manufacture of simulacra instead.
I have to admit I wasn't sure what was happening when the novel seemed to veer off course, but then I realized it was making me feel as crazy as the people in the book were: that's the power of PKD's writing at work.
Themes of what it means to be human, what separates humans from machines, and what constitutes reality and how it relates to consciousness dominate Rosen's inner monologues, along with musings on the nature and depth of humanism.In characteristic Philip K Dick style, the characters are well developed and fleshed out.
Psychosis and AI are used to bring attention to the very nature of reality and consciousness, and they're examined in more depth as the story progresses.If you've read a lot of Philip K Dick, you might find some elements of this book formulaic in relation to his other books, but despite the shared tropes, it still manages to have its own character.
It is Pris who holds the two parts together, first by her building an artificial Abraham Lincolm and Edwin Stanton who are actually characters in their own right; and secondly, by her father's partner's (Louis Rosen) obsession with the raven-haired eighteen-year-old.At first, it appears that Lincoln and Stanton are the real subject of We Can Build You, until Rosen begins obsessing about her.
Ultimately, Rosen finds himself in the FBMH's clutches, where he meets Pris, who has returned.It seems as if Dick himself was obsessing over the character of Pris, and that perhaps there was a real person in his life who had filled a similar role.
türkçe'de yapılmış en iyi pkd çevirilerinden biri
To try to capture the story line would be next to impossible, as the book lacks helpful elements such as a beginning, middle and end.
At times, it is about the extent to which androids are more or less alive than humans.
At other times, it is an irrational love story.
First, the book might work better as a Kurt Vonnegut-esque absurdist novel, but Dick approaches this more like traditional science fiction.
There are about a million copies of this thing at Half Price Books, and they all need to stay right where they are.
A schizophrenic book about schizophrenia. In one part its quite a straight forward an interesting scifi about robots and artificial intelligence, with a little bit of business negotiations and dodgy retail practices, then it morphs into a book about a descent into madness brought about by the rest of the book. One character , Pris is known to have mental issues from the start but it is the descent if Louis that makes up the last section. The book is a strange one but the weird mix still works.
Dick is really good at writing books that have nothing to do with their premise
Philip es a mi gusto, un escritor bastante bueno, las dos. Novelas que he leído de él no me han defraudado. Sin duda alguna, lo seguiré leyendo.
In the novel, we meet a pair of businessmen in Ontario, Oregon--Maury Frauenzimmer and (our narrator) Louis Rosen--who sell pianos and electric organs and who are about to branch out into a new line of endeavor: mechanical "simulacra" (think: robots) of various Civil War figures.
But things get a tad complicated, when Louis falls for the dubious charms of Maury's mentally unstable daughter, Pris, and the mechanical creations start evincing more sanity and compassion than their creators....To my great surprise, "We Can Build You" turns out to be a very sweet, sad, insightful and amusing Dick book; quite lovely, really.
He has a great ability to write a believable and readable narrative shaped by mental illness.My issues with this book have nothing to do with his abilities because despite a lack of interest, I was objectively still impressed by the way he writes.My issues with this book is that it was boring, nothing happened, it didn't go anywhere.
It lacked a whole lot of everything.That said, the idea was good.
I wish I liked it more.NOTABLE LINES;'As I watched the Lincoln come by degrees to a relationship with what it saw, I understood something; the basis of life is not a greed to exist, not a desire of any kind.
Paralyzing dread so great as to produce apathy.
We Can Build You, by Philip K.
If you build a perfect replica of a man, is it a man?
It's about him refusing to see the myriad reasons why a young mentally ill woman is not the appropriate object of affection for a man who is at least old enough to be her father.The plot creeps along in fits and starts, and the most interesting aspects of the book--namely, the androids Lincoln and Stanton--repeatedly get sidelined by Dick's focus on mental illness and on Louis "falling in love" with Pris.
Maybe I'll up this to four stars once I've figured out what the point was.Or more precisely, if there was a point other than the obvious one.At times brilliant, but then, like the main character, kind of lost it.
Audiobook from Brilliance AudioNarrated by Dan John MillerLength: 8 hours, 22 minutesPublished in 1972, Dick uses the premise of a "future" (the book takes place in Dick's imagined 1982) where programming is advanced enough to allow programming the appearance of sentience into androids to provide a treatise on mental health and mental healthcare.In short, Louie Rosen and his partner Maury run a business making and selling electronic organs.
One day, however, Maury decides to make an android of Edwin Stanton, Lincoln's Secretary of War. When he reveals it to Louie, he also reveals that his schizophrenic daughter, Priss, played a large role in developing the personality for it.
Louie, while talking to the Lincoln, seems to have also developed mental instability and runs to Seattle to bring Priss back.
The ideas he is playing with and the manner with which he uses humanity and technology to play out these ideas is five star worthy.However, maybe due to the above, I can't help being 3 star disappointed upon finishing...
I guess this is why I prefer Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, which is kind of the same novel, in a way, but from another angle.I also enjoy the dated science-fiction speculations, such as the existence of domestic rocket travel and interplanetary colonisation along side the use of carbon paper on typewriters and public phones with books with everyones addresses in them...
One of P.K.Dick's solid but unspectacular novels.
It has many of the android themes that he would do better in Do Andoids Dream of Electric Sheep and other novels: what is the difference between a human and an android?
An examination of a a little man trying to survive in a hard world, a god-like powerful figure who just might ruin him.
There are also other of his less salutatory obsessions: a portrait of the dark-haired girl in the form of Pris Fraunzimmer, and there are moments of the book that read like some MRA stalker's dream.
Better than many novels but a long way from Dick's best.
How can you not love a book that features an Abe Lincoln robot?
Detto questo, non è un brutto libro, c’è un’idea innovativa (quella della costruzione dei simulacri/androidi), c’è un mondo distopico, c’è la malattia mentale e c’è una narrazione dell’amore completamente diversa dalle trattazioni più tradizionali.
L’androide tanto promesso compare pochissimo, le parti che lo riguardano sono le più dense di significato ma sono poche, quasi tutto il resto del libro è incentrato su altro.
Ci si dimentica degli androidi, non si sa nemmeno che fine fanno.
Forse se questo libro avesse avuto un titolo diverso e se la prima parte non fosse stata un continuo accrescere le aspettative su di essi allora anche la visione complessiva sarebbe cambiata, ma non è così
Kitabı ilk bitirdiğimde 4 yıldız vermiştim. Düşündükçe 5 yıldızlık buluyorum. Çok iyi kitaptı, gerçekten çok hoşuma gitti. Bir taraftan insanları etki altına alıp maddi ve manevi olarak bir kazanç sağlamak diğer taraftan ise insanın öz yapısındaki inşa hali ele alınmış kitapta. Tüyleri diken diken eden bir distopya var. Öyle ki, kitabın bir yerine geldiğimde geleceğimizi bir hayli içinden çıkılmaz buldum. PKD'in en başarılı eserlerinden biri olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Soporifero, me ha costado terminarlo. La trama no puede ser mas insulsa. No parece de Dick.
A prequel to Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep that manages to write PKD into the timeline by reference to my favorite short story Nanny
PKD always said that he wrote with his fingers.
The interior monologue is all Phil's, partially put into the mind of his first person narrator, but mostly spilling out in a direct current from his brain to his fingers to the page.We Can Build You takes place in the distant future of the 1980's.
(PKD seldom bothered setting stories far enough into the future that any of the scientific marvels he works into his plots might be even vaguely possible.) Louis Rosen works for Maury Rock in a shady sales business.
Pris is a beautiful, recovering schizophrenic and Maury's daughter.
In diesem Roman erzählt er die Geschichte von zwei Geschäftsleuten, Maury Rock und sein Partner Louis Rosen, aus dessen Sicht das ganze Buch aufgebaut ist.
Es geht so lange alles gut, bis Louis Rosen schizophrene Züge an sich entdeckt - seine Liebe zur Tochter von Maury Rock, der psychisch labilen Pris Frauenzimmer (die mich während des ganzen Buches sehr stark an die Pris aus seinem Werk und dem Film "Blade Runner" erinnert hat), entwickelt sich mehr und mehr zu einem Drama, das für Rosen in einer Klinik für Schizophreniekranke in Kansas endet.
"Lyn" did such a brilliant bang-up job at it, so I re-read it to give it a go for myself.Written in '62 but not published until '69 (magazine serial) and '72 (book form).
It is a really interesting novel mostly about mental illness as an epidemic in America set in 1982 (the year of PKD's death -oddly enough).
It is brilliant as with the treatment of characterization - mainly with the simulacrum figures; especially the Lincoln, as he, like the protagonist Louis Rosen, also suffers from a sort of mental illness perhaps caused by the trauma caused by a broken heart early in life.
It started out pretty well as a potentially interesting tale of man-made simulacrums modeled after Edward Stanton and Abraham Lincoln (as the back cover of the book informs you).Then all of the sudden the book takes a nonsensical turn, and suddenly the middle aged main character becomes obsessed with his business partner's 18 year old schizophrenic daughter.
This is vaguely alluded to throughout the story but not enough to have the whole ending rely on this.The characters themselves are flat and unlikeable, the dialogue isn't much better.I almost gave up on this one and after finishing, I wish I did.
The ending is lackluster and reveals how pointless the entire first half (the better part) actually was.

Sure, a couple of major characters are robots, and it is set in a sort of dystopian future, but it's not really about that.
It really is all over the place.As a fan (this was PKD book #33 according to Goodreads), I found myself cringing a few times at clumsy wording and the awkward behavior of certain characters, but overall it was still better than most non-PKD books I've read.
I would have liked to see more mechanical Abe Lincoln, honestly.
But the book was about Pris.
For that matter, I would have liked to know more about Pris, but we only know what the narrator knows.
This book seemed more cohesive than many other Dick books. I have often felt like he goes off on tangents of possibility and explores new ideas without fully investigating his initial premise. This book was different than that. His brilliance as a writer is often overshadowed by his amazing philosophical imagination, but there were some moments during this book where I thought to myself "Wow!"Dick's "heroes" are often regular guys and/or losers, and maybe I related a little too well with this herowho was maybe losing his mind.
Philip K Dick is a master and making you go "huh?" and I mean that in a good way. His mind is so far out there that it takes a while to get in the right frame of mind to be able to enjoy him. This was the first book of his that I read and I am planning on reading much more. This book makes us question what being human is and the philosophical nature of the question is addressed with vigor here.
