https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64216.Guards_Guards_
And partly because they are comfortable to me.
It will be hard for me to read that, knowing that afterwards, there will be no more new Pratchett to read.
This is the book that introduces Vimes, perhaps my favorite Discworld character.
The Vimes in this first book is a good character, but it's not the character I grew to love.
Vimes is a good character in this book, but he's not particularly noteworthy.
Carrot and the Patrician shine more.As a writer, it's interesting for me to see how Pratchett started here, with a functional but not stellar character, who he then changed (rather abruptly) into one of my favorites in the whole series.
The Discworld books all take place on the same planet, but they involve different groups of people:The witches (my favorites)The Night Watch (my also-favorites)Death (granted, he's not a group, but he does have a family)The wizardsOkay, there are standalones, like Small Gods.
(I fully intend to be Granny Weatherwax when I grow up, right down to the goat farm and the ability to terrify people just by saying "Good morning." Watch this space.)Or you can start with Guards!
What I love most about Pratchett's books is that under a thin layer of funny footnotes-peppered pun-heavy parody lies the core of deep seriousness rooted in the quite sobering understanding of the shallow pettiness of human mundanity fueled by jealousy, bile, spite, and closemindedness. "There was a thoughtful pause in the conversation as the assembled Brethren mentally divided the universe into the deserving and the undeserving, and put themselves on the appropriate side." In the end, the only
Reduced to almost-nothingness by the corruption in the city, spending his time in the gutter (literally), laughed at by everyone except his two colleagues - the thick but amiable Fred Colon and a disgrace to human race a.k.a. Nobby Nobbs - Vimes gets a bit of a wake-up call when the Watch gets its newest recruit: Lance Constable Carrot Ironfoundersson, a not-too-bright but earnest 6 foot 6 inches dwarf¹ (he's adopted, okay?) armed with a Book of Laws and Ordinances of Ankh-Morpork and a decidedly non-magical sword.¹People who are rather more than six feet tall and nearly as broad across the shoulders often have uneventful journeys.
As you read, imagine that there is a meter whose arrow jumps when you smile, moves further right when you chuckle and spikes into the read eleven when you laugh out loud.Pratchett’s 1989 Discworld novel (his 8th in the series and 1st of the City Watch sub-series) made me smile all the way through the book, chuckle frequently and laugh out loud two or three times.Set in Ankh-Morpork (inspired by Fritz Leiber’s Lankhmar?) the City Watch is composed of those night watchmen who call out at midnight that “All’s well” and who would not want to catch anyone or run after someone too fast to avoid ruining the evening with an arrest.
It takes the arrival of an extremely honest and straight-laced human orphan raised by dwarves to remind the Watchmen what they are supposed to be; and a huge dragon summoned from another dimension burning up the citizens and half the city to spur them into action.Art by SharksDenOne reason I only read Terry Pratchett occasionally is that I personally prefer books where humour is a minor element of the story rather than placed at the front and centre.
I have to admit this is my misconception of what Pratchett was doing with the Discworld series (after the first few straightforward fantasy parody books).
De los mejores libros que he leído este año.
What can go wrong?Meet Terry Pratchett, who can turn anything, and I mean, anything, on its head.
:)On this re-read, what I remember to be a less funny book than the Watch novels that came after it suddenly becomes a rich and nostalgic ride including dwarf bread, or in this case, CAKE.
He's suspicious.I love all the tropes and the way Pratchett deals with them.
The whole novel is tongue-in-cheek and it's a slight bit more delightful (IMHO) than all the rest of the novels that came before it.
Indeed, it's this one that sets the tone for all the rest.
Clever and funny; a little bit of social commentary with an edge, both are particularly skilled in word games.“‘But you’re my kind,’ said Carrot desperately.
You summoned the Watch,’ Carrot drew himself up proudly, ‘because someone’s taken a book?
You think that’s worse than murder?’The librarian gave him the kind of look other people would reserve for people who said things like, ‘What’s so bad about genocide?’”Which pretty much reminds me of the Albatross sketch.
Both use the device of the straight man for maximum silliness:The Albatross at Intermission:At the end of the day, certainly fun.
But when this book came up, well - I gained even more respect for Mr Pratchett, accompanied by a bellyful of giggles and such a strong love for motley crew that is The WatchFeaturing Sam Vimes, the grumpiest man in all Discworld:“It wasn't by eliminating the impossible that you got at the truth, however improbable; it was by the much harder process of eliminating the possibilities.
If you want to learn to love one of the funniest authors of our time, pick up this book.
You won't regret it.Courtesy of Jen's mini reviews Since I haven't had time to read much and reviewing old books I loved.
Noble dragons!Q:Noble dragons don't have friends. The nearest they can get to the idea is an enemy who is still alive. (c)
This book is the FIRST GREAT Discworld novel in the series.The foundations of successful formula of Watch sub-series are already on this novel(view spoiler)[: 1.
I loved the dialogues between them, especially when arguing who should rescue Carrot from drowning.2.
These people are not just mentioned, but they have dialogues and readers could glimpse at their desires/needs.I think the living city of Ankh-Morpork is the main attractions of Discworld.
The city is not only used in Watch sub-series, but also in other Discworld stories too.
And this novel is the first appearance of a living Ankh-Morpork.
However, some magic from a very weird secret society (weirder than usual) brought one back onto the Disc in order for it to carry out a stereotypical true-heir-arrives-just-in-the-knick-of-time con - which, of course, goes all wrong ending with (view spoiler)[the dragon becoming the King eventually (hide spoiler)].
*lol*The Night Watch once was the pride of the city - with "was" being the important bit in that sentence.
It doesn't help that dwarves (and therefore Carrot) are very literal creatures that don't know sarcasm or puns or figures of speech.
*lol*I LOVED all the twists on stories about the-one-true-King, the comments about libraries and librarians as well as Pratchett's depiction of dragons.
But I found I had to be in the right mood, so it took me a long time to finish the book in small doses, the safest way with a dangerous recreational drug.Our hero, Captain Vimes of the Night Watch, has less and less to do in his service to the metropolis of Anakh-Morpork.
They become energized with purpose when they discover signs of a dragon toasting buildings and people in the night, but no one believes them at first.
Behind the scenes, the head of a religious brotherhood (Unique and Supreme Lodge of the Elucidated Brethren of the Ebon Night) has discovered a book on conjuring dragons in the library.
Continuing the Pratchett reread with the SpecFic Buddy Reads group, we move on to one of my favorite books in the whole series and the start of one of the best sub-series in the overall Discworld universe.Sam Vimes is the drunkard Captain of the nearly defunct Night Watch, down to three individuals and one raw recruit at the start of this novel.
When the first proper dragon seen in centuries appears in the city of Ankh-Morpork the men (and one ape volunteer) of the Watch are all that stands against it, stubbornly trying to do their job despite being the city joke.Vimes is a wonderful character.
Executive Summary: I've had numerous people tell me this is the Discworld book to start with, and now I know why. Easily my favorite so far. 4.5 stars. Full Review My Discworld read continues, and finally I come to infamous Guards! Guards! I know there are fancy diagrams and details on all the different ways you can read Discworld, but I prefer publish order. I've enjoyed all of the Discworld books so far, albeit some more than others. I generally seem to enjoy the Rincewind books less than I ha
I've enjoyed all of the Discworld books so far, albeit some more than others.
I'm only one book in, but I suspect these may become my favorites as well.Like all the Discworld books I've read so far, this one was very quotable and had numerous laugh out loud moments.
All of the guards are pretty enjoyable, but I especially like Carrot.
Some of the previous books were funny at times with memorable characters, but the story was slow or disjointed.
There were some great surprises along the way.Overall this book is clever, funny, and just downright enjoyable.
Let me leave you with this passage from the beginning of the novel: 'The city wasa, wasa, wasa, wossname.
And then you hated her and, and just when you thought you'd got her, it, out of your whatever, then she opened her great booming rotten heart to you, caught you off bal, bal, bal, thing.
Lay. Only one thing you were sure of, you couldn't let her go.
. .'Also, this: 'It's a metaphor of human bloody existence, a dragon.
And if that wasn't bad enough, it's also a bloody great hot flying thing.'And this: 'People were stupid, sometimes.
Očekivao sam nešto u rangu Morta (koji mi se da napomenem veoma dopao), a zatekao nešto što sam pročitao za dan i po (za mene retkost) i nešto što me je toliko oduševilo i opustilo i dotaklo da ne znam šta tačno da kažem. Pračet je definitivno nešto posebno i njegov način tumačenja ljudske prirode (tzv human condition) kroz sekundaran svet poseduje retku, retku snagu. Ukratko, Pračet je car. I jako mi je drago što je toliko naslova tek predamnom. 5
Long believed extinct, a superb specimen of draco nobilis ("noble dragon" for those who don't understand italics) has appeared in Discworld's greatest city.
Not only does this unwelcome visitor have a nasty habit of charbroiling everything in its path, in rather short order it is crowned King (it is a noble dragon, after all .
To the rescue come Captain Vimes, Constable Carrot, and the rest of the Night Watch who, along with other brave citizens, risk everything, including a good roasting, to dethrone the flying monarch and restore order to Ankh-Morpork (before it's burned to a crisp).
I absolutely hate DNF'ing books, but I have to call it quits.
I've only ever DNF'd maybe 3 books, the last one being book 4 of Wheel of Time.
I'm just not a fan of the humor or the writing.
A lot of people love it though, so take my opinion with a grain of salt.
To me, the writing felt all over the place and very disjointed.
A lot of the humor just fell flat for me.
I'm really disappointed that I didn't enjoy it more as I've heard many great things about Pratchett's writing.
There is a kind of book that is exactly the right thing to read when you got up at 5:20 AM to catch a bus to a conference, and have since, without having a nap, listened to six academic papers, and need something to read while eating and before bed.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
A giant dwarf named Carrot (I couldn't help picturing a large, muscle-bound Oompa Loompa...) joins the Night Watch and promptly rocks the boat by arresting a thief.
Apparently, arresting thieves is against the law in Discworld.Then a dragon becomes King, and things really start getting silly.I'm reading the books in order of publication, and this one is, so far, the most hysterical story in the series.
The inclusion of a crazy cat dragon lady, and the following lines - Someone out there was about to find that their worst nightmare was a maddened Librarian.
With a badge.
also makes this my favorite.
I've read Sir Terry Pratchett's entire City Watch Series and the related Moist Von Lipvig / Modernization series (books listed below, in order).
Plus, a little romance and...here be dragons.Guards Guards is the first book in the Discworld sub-series, where we meet Sam Vimes, captain of the Night Watch.
In reading order, books featuring Sam Vimes (CW = City Watch series)Guards!
The books feature con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig,  and a few characters from the City Watch.
This book does not feature Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters.
Já o cabo Nobby Nobbs não tem solução, mais fuma do que respira e tem um jeitinho bem peculiar de ver o mundo à sua volta, além de precisar andar sempre com um certificado do Patrício dizendo que ele é de fato humano.A trama começa a tomar forma quando os membros da sociedade secreta dos Irmãos Iluminados e Antigos de Ee roubam um livro de dentro da Universidade Invisível, que tem um bibliotecário orangotango (!) como administrador, e agora estão tentando convocar um dragão, para que assim um herói das lendas apareça e o mate, tornando-se então o novo rei.
Brilliant!The debut outing of Sam Vimes, Carrot Ironfoundersson, Fred Colon, Nobby Nobbs, Sybil Ramkin, Detritus and Cutmeownthroat Dibbler,and what a barnstorming adventure it is.
At this stage The Watch are a down and out bunch of losers who prefer to hide in the dark than doing any policing, led by the now legendary Sam Vimes who you'll find face down in the gutter drinking his misery away.
Guards!This was the first Discworld book I ever owned.
I've since wondered exactly what his thought process was in buying me that book.
His merry band of men come fully formed, characters you can't help but love and what a whirlwind Lady Sybil is, much more than just an upper class caricature.More!
What looks like silliness is in fact very clever and comical.
is also a crime story of sorts, a parody really of a police procedural, with deaths and mysteries.
Vimes is perfect as the ‘investigator-who-lost-his-ways’ or perhaps who never had them, and Carrot steals the limelight with his naive and adorable view of life, both personalising the two main strands of the story.
In fact, I liked all of them, Nobby Nobbs, Sergeant Colon, the Librarian and Sybil Ramkin, especially the dynamics between all of these.
It makes me sick.''Never heard you talk like this before, Frederick,' said Nobby.'It's Sergeant Colon to you, Nobby.”
Turning the Cannon-fodder into heroes1 December 2012'This is probably the first democratically killed dragon, one man, one stab.' If I were to pull out one theme from this book I would have to say that it is about the fickleness of the mob. Basically the mob, or as in this book, the population of Ankh-Morpork, simply switch and change throughout but really have no understanding about what they really want. It is not about the overthrow of an evil tyrant to be replaced with a good king, particula
It is not about the overthrow of an evil tyrant to be replaced with a good king, particularly since in Discworld there is no such thing as a good king.
This story is unique in many ways because despite being set in a fantasy world, it actually plays out like your average cop movie.
The rather exotic and unique characters that Pratchett creates also sets his books apart from your standard fantasy novels.
The idea of ruling a society is also interesting because Discworld is not a universe in which the duality of good and evil exists, but rather differing shades of evil.
A great story which details the rise from the gutters of the Night Watch and it's misfit bunch of heroes: Vimes, Colon, Nobby and new recruit Carrott. The Patrician is ousted from power by the arrival of a magical dragon and it is up to the Watch ( led by Vimes) assisted by swamp dragon breeder Lady Sybil Ramkin and the deputised Librarian to figure out who summoned the dragon and to restore order (of a sort) to the city. Loved this. Will definitely be reading more Watch books.
4,25 stars - English hardcover - I have dyslexia - Thanks Brenda for the read - Note in notebook about this book : new series from the and of this writter. And about dragons ! Like to read the next one. 😀😀😀
Qualunque nome abbiano, in ogni opera di genere fantasy-eroico il loro scopo è lo stesso: più o meno al capitolo 3 (o dopo dieci minuti di film) irrompono nella stanza, attaccano l’eroe uno alla volta e vengono massacrati.Nessuno chiede mai se sono d’accordo.Questo libro è dedicato a quei nobilissimi uomini.”Queste Guardie costituiscono un’autentica ‘armata Brancaleone’, le bettole sudice e i vicoli malfamati in cui si aggirano rappresentano un habitat perfetto per la loro rocambolesca avventura.
Molto carina, forse non sono proprio rotolato a terra dalle risate ma mi ha fatto divertire di gusto.
Il mio personaggio preferito è stato senza ombra di dubbio il capitano Vimes… che s’è fatto pure la fidanzata!
The woman in this case is Ankh Morpork herself, his true love, his city.
He demands greats respect and you have to give it him, because if you didn’t he’d send men to come and take it away.It takes a threat to the city, to the livelihood of all it’s criminal citizens, to get the good Captain out of his drunken malaise and turn him into the cynical, brooding, anti-hero his city needs, but never knew it wanted.
