https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123403.Bendigo_Shafter
When we're introduced to him, he's a young adult, physically strong through years of toil, used to being responsible for others' welfare, and skilled with weapons as was necessary for those who hunted game for survival and/or dealt with hostiles of the time period.His physical development complete, the narrative focuses on events shaping him mentally, his life experiences forging him into the formidable man he becomes.
Being told in first person, the story doesn't make him an idealized caricature, just a man responding to his life course and making adjustments as events necessitate.
Not your typical good guy vs bad buy shoot 'em up western from L'Amour.
They set up a new town in the wilderness.
L'Amour hits some of the high points of what that entails & makes you think a bit about how hard it was for them.Bendigo is a little to good to be true (typical hero) but it's a fun read.
Hunting for lost people in the snow, hunting for food, keeping out some riff-raff & even a glimpse of NYC during that time.The only downside to the book is the philosophizing that Bendigo constantly shares with us.
Still, a very good book.
I'm not sure why I fell in love with this book, but I did.
It's deceptively simple writing.
L'Amour's Bendigo Shafter is the human being we all wish we were, I think...and he kind of tells us how to become like him if we read the book."Few of us ever live in the present, we are forever anticipating what is to come or remembering what has gone, and this I do also.
Yet it is my good fortune to feel, to see, to hear, to be aware."As much as I have read it has not turned me into one who lives only with the intellect, for most of life is not a life of the mind, nor is that the only good life."
I enjoyed this book by Louis L'Amour thoroughly.
My favorite being the original 3 Sackett books, followed by Walking Drum and The Lonesome Gods.
I still find many of the characters "too good to be true".
I doubt anybody was really as lucky or as true a shot as these characters seem to be, but they do make for good stories.
That is how I envision America should be in general.I highly recommend this book as a good, clean read.
Perfect for a family read aloud book.
I loved this book so much!
I am having a hard time even writing a worthy review.
I will come back to this book at some time.
This is a book I would love for my boys to read.
A great book on becoming a man.Some of my favorite quotes:"To destroy is easy, to build is hard.
A great novel on the power of various types of teachers: nature, neighbors and books.
I've read a lot about L'Amour's own personal experiences and how he thought a Western man should be portrayed, and this character is exactly that: though oddly told by the character himself in the first person.
Bendigo Shafter is 6'2", kind and gentle toward women, a hard worker who takes satisfaction in his labour, who understands the Indian and respects him, who reads Blackstone's Law (and Plutarch etc.), and is a fast, sure shot but never brags about it or gets into a fight if he can avoid it.Sounds great, yet for me it was lacking that true craftsmanship that would make this a work of art.
Book 1 and 2 were great, book 3 was a bit of a snooze. I felt like the time line was unclear, to me it read as 2 years but some how Ninon became a woman, I also did NOT care at all about their relationship. Was there even a relationship to care about? But the first two books were excellent.
This is a coming of age book as could only be written by Louis L'Amour. It is actually a book on the making of a man. Bendigo Shafter starts as an 18 year old with a strong back and the desire to be and become someone. The book tells of his growth and his love for learning
Great story and it takes you through the life of Bendigo Shafter and his family.
They have decided to build a town and young Bendigo has to learn how to be a man and help provide for this quickly formed community.
He has some great examples starting with his brother Cain, as well as a familiar name in Sackett (Ethan) and a whole host of others in the town.
It really shows how a young man can take the best or worst of people as he grows up.
Do yourself a favor and read Bendigo Shafter.

Loved the first part of this book because it is chock full of L'Amour's tidbits of philosophy and good characters of virtue, honor and hard work ethics. However the ending became repititious and more about how wonderful the main characer was. It would have been interesting except the main character was the narrator. So it came off more like boasting. But the end was well wrapped up; he got the girl, the money, the land , the bad guy,...
One of his best books. Novelists, even Western writers, have the opportunity to project their thoughts and philosophy onto those of the protagonist and Louis L'Amour does it best in this book. Lots to think about - what makes a community, why people are driven to build. Good development of the many characters and relationships in the book. Almost on a par with Ernest Haycox's The Earthbreakers.
Ya, so Ben Shafter is probably a little too good to be true, but the book was very enjoyable nonetheless. The education model of studying classics with a mentor is very TJEd and was fun to read. I am totally motivated to lean survival skills, as it was alarming to see how much I don't know. I guess I can find some comfort that I am a master herbalist and know plants. I enjoyed all the philosophy and common sense and wish it was more widespread now days.
Loved it... another book that I want my son to read when he's older. A shining example of a young hero striving to better himself and to be a good man. Boys need more books with such heros...Sooo glad to have discovered the awesome-ness of Louis L'Amour!
A good editor should probably catch stuff like that, but it doesn't change the fact that L'Amour released two other full-length novels the same year as BENDIGO SHAFTER (1979), and that's a tremendous output for anyone not named James Patterson.
There are passages that indicate L'Amour intended this novel as a bildungsroman; in that one aspect, I'd say he failed.BENDIGO SHAFTER tells a sprawling story, one that feels both typical and atypical for L'Amour.
Thanks to the company of these men, Louis was first exposed to the history and the adventures of the frontier days that inspired his books.Bendigo Shafter is a action filled novel with a lot of obstacles like harsh winters, Indian raids, and the outlaws that drifted into their town that Bendigo Shafter and his friends have to face.
When Benjamin Shafter got attacked by the mountain lion, I think the author was trying to show the readers that Benjamin could take care of himself when he gets caught off guard.
This would be the perfect read for them or any of the Louis L’amour books.
The book covers a number of years as a group of people try to build a community while dealing with the difficulties of frontier life in the mountains.
It is also a story of the journey of one man to educate himself and find a place in the world where he can make a difference.
As Bendigo's world expands he begins to question what he should do with his life.I really enjoyed this book.
These stories make you want to go find these places and explore them.
To try and imagine what life must have been like for theses people.
I grew up reading Louis L'Amour since several copies were in a bookcase at my Grandma's home, left over from my young uncles, I think.
I've continued to read and love L'Amour all my life but had missed this particular one until now.
Falling into it reminded me of why I love L'Amour's writings; his intense appreciate for the Native Americans, this amazing continent we call home, his love of the earth and of his characters and with their strength and their foibles!
Thanks Mr L'Amour for another lovely visit to more of our beautiful USA!!!
Bendigo Shafter, the central figure, narrates this tale of an interrupted wagon train voyage and how these pioneers forged a community from the strengths they brought with them and the materials at hand.
Bendigo Shafter (both the story and the man) will be with me a long time.
A bonus for fans of the Sacketts -- a seemingly peripheral Sackett is actually central to the success of the tale.This is a story I am going to be chewing on for quite some time to come.
My husband and I both enjoyed some of the Louis L'Amour novels about the Sackett family.
I purchased the Nook version of this novel through a Goodreads special deal when I was seeking a light read.
It was fun to see a Sackett cousin pop up in this tale as one of the good guys.
I am looking forward to next reading "News of the World" by Paulette Jiles which is set in Texas around the same time.
I have also enjoyed reading novels by Larry McMurtry and James Lee Burke about this era in the west.
I’ve read many Louis L’Amour books and I have to say this one is one of my favorites.
Bendigo Shafter is unlike any other book of his that I’ve ever read; it is has a plot that extends for a longer period of time than many of his other books.
It is also cool because, even though it is fiction, it is something that represents what happened many times in the old west.
It is very interesting how the author brings to life all of the characters.
There are mainly just minor ones throughout the book.
Overall though, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
In Louis L'Amour's novel "Bendigo Shafter", the wild west of Wyoming is shown thru the life of young Bendigo as he comes out west, helps to build a community/town, and of course there's gunfights and a cattle drive, plus the haunting pictures of the old west L'Amour so beautifully writes.
I have not read a Louis L'Amour novel in years and this was a bit like picking up an old friend.
I originally only read these novels because my dad did and I wanted to impress him.
Reading one now as an adult I appreciate it so much more than when I was younger.
HVAD BOGREOLEN GEMTEJeg har været en tur i det vilde westen.
Louis L'amour tog mig i hånden og førte mig gennem sletter, prærien, store bjerge, endeløse skove og langs vandløb og bække.
Undervejs mødte vi indianere og vilde dyr.
Byggede en by med egne hænder og gravede naturligvis efter guld.
Jeg er meget begejstret for Louis L'amour forfatterskab.
Jeg ved naturligvis godt, at han har skrevet nogle letbenede knaldromaner a la Bill og Benn, men han har altså også skrevet en række hammer gode western romaner.
Jeg tager cowboyhatten af og bukker og takker.
(Skønt at have den slags gemt i bogreolen).
Young Bendigo Shafter and a group going out west set out to build a town together.
They suffer the harsh winters and the back-breaking work that needs to be done in order to make a community.
Bendigo goes further west to buy cattle and comes back a man.
He has also fallen in love with a girl now living in New York City, now an actress.
Is Bendigo willing to leave his hometown for the big city or is Ninon ready to give up acting?
I'm really starting to enjoy the Western genre.
Louis L'Amour is prolific and I will be selecting another book from him.
Read this because of Louis' autobiography 'The Education of a Wandering Man'.
Can't say I've become a fan.
You may like this, or you may not.
Crammed, and I mean crammed, full of details.
Some illuminating, most only of passing interest.
Did like his explanation of the Shoshone warrior culture and how it would lead to their ultimate demise.
No value judgement, only the incompatibility of their culture to 18th Century Frontier American - oil and water.
I didn't find the story all that engaging, but it was an easy read.
If you're curious about Louis, pick it up.
I won this in a goodreads giveaway and this is the first book I've read by the author.It won't be the last book I read by him. The story is well crafted with interesting characters and a great flow. I'm not sure what else a person can say, other than this was an enjoyable read that call to me whenever I set the book down. The edition I read includes the short story that was a prequel to the book, some notes and ideas for the transition from short story to novel, and a brief bio of L'Amour.
The story of many towns.One of the things I like of Louis L'Amour books is that even while a work of fiction, there's some truth that you can guess beneath the words. The story of this unnamed town is credible and posible and I can't shake off the feeling that it's the same story of many places around the world.
Louis L'Amour put out a lot of great books. Every one that I have read has been good, and this is no exception. An entertaining, thoughtful book that gives us a good look at the settling of the Old West and the inevitable clashes between native peoples and Europeans. I'm often impressed by how much fortitude and skill it took to move yourself to an uncultivated land and create a community.
A wonderful storyTold by one of the greatest story tellers that ever lived. Louis L'Amour wrote many books and every one of them is a treasure to read. The depth of his research, the details and the lines that provoke thought and still stand true all tie together to make his stories live on.
