https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61535.The_Selfish_Gene
- What some people seem to find hard to understand is that there's a part of you, in fact the most important part, that's immaterial and immortal. Your body is really no more than a temporary shell for the immortal part, and houses it for a little while until it dies. The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
I do not believe in a God, certainly not any God that's been conceived by man, but I also believe Richard Dawkins is a self-satisfied thought-Nazi who is as fundamental in his view of religion as any right-wing minister.
The existence or non-existence of a God cannot be proven, nor can the existence or non-existence of a soul, and faith is an abstract experience with implications that are fundamentally unresponsive to study.
As such, pursuits like Dawkins' often boil down to one type of faith (in "reason") vs.
another type of faith (in a "God").
Dawkins sure knows his way around language too.
And to read Dawkins is to realize, yes, this does sound like a very solid theory.
To believe evolution is to believe that you now have a FINITE amount of monkeys and a FINITE amount of time and yet they STILL manage to produce the complete works of Shakespeare...
But perhaps further reading will sway me at a later date.EDIT 6/3/15I can't believe this review is still getting attention after all this time!
Additionally Dawkins' "The Ancestor's Tale" was one of THE most beautiful books I've ever read.
نحن لسنا إلا مركبات تنتقل الجينات عبرها من جيل إلى جيلتشهد تطور الخليقة منذ بدئها وحتى اندثارهاوترتب
I'm agnostic myself, so I'm impartial, but Dawkins is so cynical, so against the idea that there is more to us as individual human beings than just intelligent apes meant to give birth, grow old and die, that he seems almost, for lack of a better phrase, sociopathic or antisocial.
I think there's more to the human race than that.
Perhaps that is true in some ways, but not all humans are alike and to generalize them in this manner leaves no room for anything beyond Dawkins' view of logic.
Then we have the creationists, then the person who thinks it is all a capitalist manifesto.
How can anyone be a creationist and not believe in dinosaurs and such?
Are they the sort of people who pay astrologers money to cast their charts because of course your fate is determined by the stars at the moment of your birth?
I'm reading Josephus at the moment, it seems that the only mention of Jesus at the time he was living was in Josephus but that it might have been added later...
That's a whole other story, and one which Dawkins might have liked, but these one-star creationists certainly won't.
Over the course of generations, evolution plays a role to ensure the survival of the genes, not the individual or "the species".Although the book is 30 years old, it has stood the test of time.
These chapters were especially interesting to me, as I recently took an online course on the subject of game theory.It is in this book that Dawkins coined the now-famous term "meme".
Dawkins devotes an entire fascinating chapter to his concept of the meme.Throughout the book, Dawkins deals with the dichotomy between the "selfishness" required for survival, and the "altruism" of human behavior.
زیرا آن پرندۀ متقلب تند تند تخم گذاری میکند و اینکار را انجام میدهد--------------------------------------------گاهی اوقات ژنِ خودخواه برایِ بقا به خیانت رو می آوردمثلاً وقتی ماده ای میبیند که جفتش در نبرد با نرِ دیگر مغلوب شده، سریع به سمتِ نرِ پیروز رفته و با او جفت گیری میکند تا ژنِ برتر حاصل شودگاهی اوقات ژنِ خودخواه با دروغ به بقایِ خود کمک میکنددر پرندگان، وقتی مادر برایِ بچه ها کرم یا حشره می آورد، بچه ها دهانِ خود را باز میکنند و مادر به میزانِ صدا دقت کرده و به آنها خوراک میدهد، هر کدام گرسنه تر باشد بیشتر صدا میزند....
و حتی بهتر است خوراکِ توله هایِ دیگر شود...به این ترتیب بیشترین سود را نصیبِ ژن هایش میکند--------------------------------------------گاهی اوقات ژنِ خودخواه برایِ بقا به کشتن و قتل رو می آوردمثلاً پرندۀ «راهنمایِ کندویِ عسل»، مثلِ فاخته ها متقلب است و تخمِ خود را در لانۀ پرندگانِ دیگر میگذارد...
I love the idea that we are just galaxies of little robots running complicated Game Theories that eventually turn into a great cooperative machine where everyone (mostly) benefits, with plenty of complicated moves going way beyond hawks and doves and straight into the horribly complicated multi-defectors, forgivers, and other evolutionary styles that depend on the events that have gone before and the pre-knowledge (or lack of) a set end-date for the entire experiment...
We play Game Theory, too, in exactly the same way every gene everywhere does, but we just happen to be able to make models on top of the situations and we're able to choose whether to see through the lies, the hawk strategies, or when to stop cooperating if the advantages work out much better for us if we did.
لم أر أكثر أنانية من عبدالباسط حموده الذى بدأ أغنية أنا مش عارفنى قائلا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا أنا مش عارفنى أنا تهت منى أنا مش أنا  ما كفاية أنا واحده يا أستاذ عبدالباسط بلاش الإسراف دهمن منا لا يحب نفسههل حب النفس هو أنانية أم أن الأنانية هي الميل إلى عدم التعاون مع الغيرفي الواقع الكتاب يمكن اعتباره عن نفى الإيثار و حياة التعاون أكثر من اثباته لصفة الأنانيةمن الصعب جدا القراءة لهذا الرجل و هذا سبب النجمات الثلاث و الا فإن الكتاب جدير بنجمة أخرىطيب ندخل في الموضوع و نجيب من ال

He chooses his words carefully though, and applies metaphors of self-interest only to genes that are, or are not, selected for by indifferent and unthinking mechanisms.Where this metaphor breaks down, as Dawkins admits, is when the idea of “selfishness” is brought up from genetics to the level of individuals within a group, or groups within a species.
He criticizes such concepts in sociobiology, where claims are made that an individual’s actions are inherently selfish in order to serve their genes in themselves, or in other related individuals.While genes may be “selfish” in order to be selected, this doesn’t necessitate that individuals (“survival machines” as he so affectionately calls us) must as well act only in self-interest.
However, the book has lost none of the charm, and the idea any of its power, due to the ravages of time: if at all, it has become stronger.What is a gene?Dawkins confesses that there is no universally agreed definition of ‘gene’.
The machines got more and more complex, from the single-cell amoeba to the human being.Dawkins starts the book with the question “Why are people?” This is his answer – so that the gene can survive and replicate.
We, alone on earth, can rebel against the tyranny of the selfish replicators.”I, as a fan of the Jungian idea of the Collective Unconscious, could not help speculating on whether the meme could be embedded way down in the gene itself?
Richard Dawkin's 1976 classic game changer The Selfish Gene contains information I still didn't know, almost 40 years later.
High five!And you might be like "Okay, so who cares?" What difference does that make, right?
Dawkins' particular focus is on behaviors we call "altruistic", like when an antelope warns his herd about an approaching lion.
Dawkins would like to go through every altruistic behavior he can think of, which is a lot, and show you why it's actually not at all altruistic.
And your genes are like who cares, you two should make out.
However, Dawkins makes the case that selfish genes might "program" survival machines to adopt some forms of "altruistic" behaviors to meet their "selfish" ends.Dawkins' language is that of a "reductionist" which doesn't surprise me as a student of biology familiar with the scientific doctrine of "Occam's Razor".
I must read his book "The Extended Phenotype" since Dawkins explores the idea much more deeply and thoroughly.To conclude, the Selfish Gene Theory (or should I say hypothesis?) is indeed a profound seductive idea as an explanation of organisms' innate behavior.
“ There are more possible games of chess than there are atoms in the galaxy.” Sometimes science books can become unintentionally funny:  “What is the good of sex? This is an extremely difficult question for the evolutionist to answer. Most serious attempts to answer it involve sophisticated mathematical reasoning.” Okay!One of stupidest criticism here on Goodreads of Adam Smith’s Theory of Wealth of Nations’ was that he made the human selfishness as basis of his theory. It was stupid as Smith d
Dawkins shows how selfishness of genes can actually bring out what, at first, may look like altruistic behaviour among animals.
The best examples are people who remain without children all their life, contraceptives, welfare state etc.
"the notable thing about animal fights is that they are formal tournaments, played according to rules like those of boxing or fencing.
Several of Dawkins' own postulates must have been already proved wrong - it was written 40 years ago, that is like stone age to scientists.
What is so intelligent about that?Coming back to creationists, well, I think Christian church was a little stupid (no offence) when it picked a head-on fight against evolutionists.
This helped a lot, it made an awful lot more sense than what I was learning and I have Professor Dawkins to thank for making me look like a genius in a lecture and completely getting my head round an essay.I am a big fan of Richard Dawkins, and this is his genius.
I like to retain a little naivete in my convictions, it makes life more palatable.Apparently "The Blind Watchmaker" is his best book, but I have completely read very few of his books and prefer to listen to him talk.
Writing lucidly about science for a lay audience while remaining scientifically rigorous is not easy, and Dawkins does a tremendous job as he examines evolution from the point of view of the gene rather than the organism.
I found this book to contain a number of "aha" moments -- for example, that rather than pose the question "Why is DNA an efficient mechanism for an individual organism to reproduce itself?", we should ask instead "How did a giant, complicated lumbering robot such as myself become a good mechanism for the reproduction of the self-replicating entities I call my genes?
Dawkins language is particularly reductionist as he explains various types of animal behaviors mathematically while attributing them solely to genetic factors.
And even if they did, it would be almost impossible to use mathematics to calculate things like the probability of an animal saving his cousin's life.In chapter 11 Dawkins introduces the notion of “memes” and makes an exception to the sovereignty of genes: he mentions briefly that culture may change what was genetically “predetermined” to happen and, surprisingly, that it can be considered another type of evolution.
"The Selfish Gene" and "The Extended Phenotype" took evolution a step forward - at least its public reception.What makes this books so special?Well, I won't emphasize the appealing style Dawkins uses, neither design of the book both of which simply didn't let me put it aside.
No copying process is perfect, however, and the population of replicators comes to include varieties that differ from one another.
All that is necessary is that eventually the consequences, however tortuous and indirect, feed back and affect the success of the replicator at getting itself copied."
If you want to learn about evolution, read this book.
Just start reading the book - by the time you've done, you'll actually WANT to go back to the forewords and revision notes.
I was grinning through most of it and rare was the day when I didn't share a thought or insight the book had triggered or opened up with my long-suffering wife Sarah.I had the time of my life reading this.
Reading this book was like meeting with a person about whom you have heard a lot, who has some kind of legendary status, and overall so well-acclaimed that you cannot resist the temptation to meet the person.
Another thing you have heard is that the person is so simple, down to earth that he would take the trouble to talk to any layman, to make these biological terms much easier, more comprehensible and comfortable for him.
The chapters in the beginning (2 & 3) bore a bit with their roundabout words.
Overall the book is the best reward for its readers.
** Evrimin, sadece çevreye en iyi adaptasyon olan bir türün (örneğin insanların ya da kovandaki arıların) yaşadığı şeklinde ilerlemediği, bu fikirle birlikte tek tek bireyin (bir insan ya da kovandaki tek bir arı) bencilliği üzerinden de işlediği fikri ileri sürülmüş.
Örneğin, penguenler acıktıkları zaman avlanmak için buzulun önüne gelip beklemeye başlarlar; ta ki ilk penguen suya girene kadar.
Dawkins'e göre penguenleri bu davranışa yönelten kendi bencil genleridir; zira türün iyiliğini değil, sadece kendi iyilik ve çıkarları için hareket etmektedirler.
Böylece hasta arıların kovandan atılmasını "türün iyiliği" için yapıldığını öne süren eski kuramların yerine, bencil genlerimiz tarafından kontrol edilen "bencil davranışlarımız" olduğu gösterilmiş.
OK - so now I had to find out what a modern theory of evolution looked like.
I read Niles Eldredge's Re-inventing Darwin, which turned out to be a book making a counter-case to ideas proposed by Dawkins.
It didn't really provide what I was looking for, anyway; the book doesn't set out a complete theory of evolution, instead it takes an academic debate into the popular science arena.
It turns out that he was strongly opposed to many of Dawkins' ideas, too - but that book only gave a sketch of a theory, in two essays.
I love reading books that challenge my worldview and compel me to change it.
This book is an excellent work on Evolutionary biology, Genes, Behavioral biology and Natural selection, among many other fascinating topics.
He uses examples and metaphors to illustrate his point and to coalesce them all to form one unifying picture, of a universe, not in perfect harmony, but in tumult and constant change.
His ideas are fascinating and logical, but his way of expressing and putting them in words is even better.
There is a lot to learn from this book.
Read it, let is rinse your brain, and repeat.
I didn't find this one nearly as interesting or as fun as The God Delusion. At times, reading it felt like a homework assignment, but for that I will have to fault my own intellectual shortcomings, and NOT Dawkins' logic or writing ability. After all, I'm not about to criticize a man who manages to mention lawyers AND vampire bats in the same sentence..
"يتشارك قرد الشامبانزي والإنسان بقرابة 99.5% من تاريخهما الجيني، ومع ذلك يعتبر معظم المفكرين من البشر أن الشامبانزي ما هو إلا مسخ غريب بينما يعتبرون أنفسهم صورة الإله".هذه كانت كلمات دوكينز الأولى في مقدمته للإصدار الأول من كتابه "الجين الأناني"، وبهذه الكلمات يأخذنا الكاتب عبر رحلة مثيرة تبدأ من "الحساء الأولي" قبل أربعة مليارات سنة قائلاً "في البدء كانت البساطة"، مروراً بالكثير من الأمثلة المذهلة عن تكيفات الكائنات الحية عبر العصور، يعرض فيها صوراً من ممالك الطبيعة تتنوع بأشكالها حتى يكاد العقل أن يتوقف من روعتها، ثم ينتهي بالتحدث عن فكرة تناظر فكرة الجينات في علم الأحياء، وهي فكرة الميمات في علم الاجتماع.يبدأ الكاتب بتعريف الجين، إذ مع وضوح هذه الكلمة في أذهاننا كمبدأ، إلا أننا لا نستطيع الإمساك بها بأيدينا (أو بادواتنا).
MFBD: 1-0And then I read this today:  Scientific American and this: Blag hag If you don't feel you have the time to read the articles this is a short summary of what happened:(view spoiler)[The whole elevator thing is quite simple, a man hit on a woman at a atheist conference in a situation that she felt was less than comfortable (in an elevator in the middle of the night), she said no and they both moved on.
L'evoluzione della specie avviene quando un individuo, che ha subito una mutazione casuale, trae da essa un vantaggio sui suoi compagni nella lotta per la sopravvivenza, ciò decreta il suo maggior successo riproduttivo e dunque aumenta le probabilità che il nuovo carattere ereditario si trasmetta alle generazioni successive.Dawkins propone di spostare l'attenzione dall'individuo al gene, l'elemento che rende possibile la trasmissione dei caratteri ereditari.
Le riviste maschili rivolgono minore attenzione alle attrattive sessuali dei maschi e un uomo che dimostra un interesse fuori del comune per i suoi vestiti e il suo aspetto è destinato a suscitare sospetti, sia fra gli uomini che fra le donne.

This is the law that all life evolves by the differential survival of replicating entities.” And I loved when he says that “...Darwinism is too big a theory to be confined to the narrow context of the gene.” And he shows how it applies in his new (at that time) concept of memes, that can be used to help explain the evolution of languages, religions and other facets of human culture.My criticisms should be taken in the context of 'friend' and admirer of Dawkins who wants him to keep on writing and making his ideas as clear as possible to people like me who aren't near as bright as he is.
