https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6686092-lies
Just when Sam and his town have conquered hunger, Orsay is claimed to be able to see past the FAYZ wall.
Drake is rumoured to be back from the dead.
She is aslo rumoured to have returned.
As if lies and rumours were not enough, Zil is teaming up with Caine for the unltimate desctuction of Perdido Beach.
A great book that revealed a secrect that many of us readers have been wondering since GONE.
A great book many of us can relate to.I wish I could give this book 11 out of 5!
DAMN THAT WAS CRAY
Plot: 2.5 starsCharacters: 4 starsWriting: 3.5 starsSci-fi Element: 3.5 starsEnding: 3 starsOverall: 3.3 starsThis series is getting weaker. After really enjoying the first two in the series, I couldn't wait to get my hands on the third installment. But it just didn't add anything to the series, it was still well-written but I felt like the author was merely prolonging the story and not really moving the plot along. Maybe it's the old: longer series = more money, but that's just... crap.
For the past two weeks, my life (well, my book life) has been revolved around reading this series.
I re-read the thrill rides which are Gone and Hunger-- then it was time for the main event, the newest installment in the Gone series.
Lies.I have to say it wasn't my favorite in the series.
Usually books get longer as the plot thickens, and I didn't see why that wasn't the case for this installment.
All the things I didn't quite like about Lies, I shall attribute it to being a middle book in the series.
I think if anything will get the kids out of FAYZ, it will be Pete!Caine Caine is also mostly a bit part for this story, but we get a whole new set of characters and location out of it.
I think he gets taken for granted a lot because of it.Lana Lana is another one of my favorites, but she is absent from a good chunk of the story.
He actually is a lot like Astrid, except much less emotional, and therefore, I think he's more effective.Zil I was really hoping Sam would kill him in this story.
I want to believe that Sam and Astrid has finally learned and finally embraced their dark side but the title makes me doubt it.
I want to believe that the conflict between the freaks/moofs and normals is finally over but the title makes me doubt it.
I want to believe that this is another epic book from an epic series and I certainly have no doubts about it.Just like the first two books, LIES still gives me an adrenaline rush.
Mary is quite likely my favorite character - I wish there had been more of her in the story.
What are the odds that the mother of one of the most powerful/mayor/suddenly reunited twin/'major hottie, even having spent seven months starving' would become the one to tell everyone what was going on?
Mary - so called sensible Mother of the FAYZ - believing she should kill all the children after five minutes speaking with her, not so much.
Let's face it, you can do both of those until your face turns purple, but you're not going to learn how to fly a helicopter that way.
We usually think of children as little folk that need our protection and yet, they are really uncivilized savages.
It's this potential for violence, this feeling of menace that makes Michael Grant's stories from the FAYZ so compelling.The third installment in the series continues the tradition and manages to find new ground to cover; new challenges to overcome, and even new issues to raise.
I've heard it said that that this series is a cross between the X-Men and bedtimes stories that Stephen King might write.
But that's only if he wanted to be sure the children never got another night's sound sleep.
Lies was the most legit book I've read in a long time.
Maybe one word can describe this phenomenal book, which also aptly is the title - Lies.If the characters in Lies were dropped in the world of "Pinocchio", then their noses would be metaphorically massive.
I had one heck of a time trying to differentiate between the truth tellers and the fear mongers in the book.A lot of the characters transitioned from "good" to "bad", and vice versa.
The innocent, self-righteous girl from Gone whose only title was Astrid the Genius?
I have enjoyed this series a lot and I was hoping for a resolution with this book.
The story is still not finished and three more books are planned.Lies continues where Hunger left off.
Underlying all of these super powered kids is a sort of evil, the gaiaphage.
This evil seems to thrive on chaos and destruction.I loved the new characters that were added to the story.
I had feelings of despair when I read this book.
I still can’t decide if I like this series or not.
I’m not sure if I’ll want to read the rest of the series.
I thought the scenes showing the outside world were interesting, although I'm not entirely convinced they were true, based on the title of the book and the fact that Orsay was responsible for them.
Mary's insanity was not entirely unexpected but definitely unsettling, and it seems like the Day Care has very bad luck with its workers taking the poof.
I felt like the plot involving Caine's group and the island kids and the plot involving Sam's group, the Human Crew, Orsay, and Drake were too seperate and should have come together at some point.
well, the cover is a lot better than the book, which I was very very dissapointed in. I was hoping that something truly exciting would happen, but nooo. INstead Sam turns out to be just another jurk and astrid is almost stuck up, and the plot is kinda slow and plain. No exciting turns or anything. NOt to mention that they're SILL not over!
Just add an extra dose of backstabbing and treachery and you have  LIES , the newest, and possibly most satisfying of the series to come along yet.And while it doesn't completely outright say "Hey this is the answer to all the weird shit that's going on, you don't need to read the next 3 books, now, kthnxbai!" It feels the most satisfying in giving little hints and glimpses to where the adults went, how they got there, and who sent them.
Which is a great testament to Mr. Grant's writing, because it's the shortest of the series so far (about 150 pages short of  Hunger ).Loved, loved, loved.
I like her a lot, she knows when not to cross that line, and she's starting to stand up for what she believes.AND OH GOD DRAKE IS BACK!
Makes a lot of sense for a Plague to hit, cause what with the living conditions and all.The mystery with Little Pete and the game, how the WALL went down for a moment in the FAYZ - it makes me wanna know if it was REAL or not.
And I love that we don't know - just like the kids don't have a clue!!Poor Mary.
Anyways, you can pretend that that didn't happen.The book again jumps between characters.
Which gnawed at me slightly before because I just kind of wanted to stick with the main characters like Sam and Astrid.
She survives but that doesn't mean she's going to like it and she fully lets you know to.Grant can be given credit for this.
Some of the peices are thrown together around end of the book.
The developement between her and Caine is a bit obvious but I liked the way they interacted with eachother throughout the book, especially towards the end.
Under the ruthless leadership of Caine, the rich, troubled kids from the Coates Academy clashed with the Perdido Beach children with their reluctant leader, Sam. An all-out war ensued in Hunger, especially as food dwindled, and the children of the FAYZ began to starve.And all the while, the ominous Darkness – an evil entity that calls itself “the gaiaphage” – remains fixated on these trapped children, determined to manipulate, to kill, to devour, to break their will, and to take control of this isolated, trapped universe in an impenetrable bubble.In Lies, things are even more dire for our trapped youth in the FAYZ.
Sam has that blind heroism and lack of thinking things through, while Astrid does nothing but analyze everything like it's a textbook she's studying.
She wants Sam to back off of the Zil guy because the "council will take care of it".
What should they say?silence that lasts until the end of their meeting.Clearly, if it took the entire book for them to come up with 9 laws on the fly, then there's something messed up about the situation altogether.
And the whole time, Astrid's saying how the council can save everything and take the weight off Sam's shoulders.
Ciò che rende la serie avvincente è la presenza di personaggi fantastici, che con i loro pregi e difetti, risultano reali, umani.
Poi vabbè, c'è Caine che è sempre un passo avanti a tutti e io lo amo per questo.
Infatti, è il mio preferito all'interno della saga.A mio parere, Lies ha voluto lanciare degli spunti, sia per quanto riguarda lo sviluppo dei personaggi che della trama, per poi approfondirli in seguito.
Infine, vi riporto un messaggio bellissimo che il libro mi ha trasmesso, e che tutti noi dovremmo ricevere: non essere ciò che gli altri si aspettano che tu sia.
I'm SO excited for this to come out!! I'm hoping it will be even better than the last two, and the books will just keep getting better and better...
I quite enjoyed Lies. Some of it was quite confusing, but I quite enjoyed the battles. I really liked the fact that Nerezza was an avatar of the darkness, that was a good plot twist. I also quite enjoyed the character of Sanjit and his gang. When Zil died I felt like he had it coming but I feel like he should have stayed around for a bit longer.
Three, I wanted a better, more clear ending that explained a little more of what happened after Sanjit left the island and Caine helped Diana back up to safety.
Like, what was Caine's reaction to Diana jumping?
On the bright side, I loved, LOVED all of Diana's scenes that were written (even though there were few) Her character definitely developed tremendously and while I miss the snarky, old Diana and hope that a little of that attitude will return to her, the new, sympathetic Diana is fun and complex.
I have to honestly say, flat out, that I loved the scene where she tried to kill Caine.
"A path, a doorway, an escape to bliss. Not just a birthday: a rebirthday." It's been 7 months since all the adults disappeared. Gone.They survived hunger and have even set up a system for food and water. But a whole new set of problems have arisen.Orsay, the girl who sees the dreams of other people, and her sidekick, Nerezza, now claims to be able to see the dreams of those outside the FAYZ. And people are believing her. But Astrid believes that it means death. But are the kids that desperate
Gone.They survived hunger and have even set up a system for food and water.
But a whole new set of problems have arisen.Orsay, the girl who sees the dreams of other people, and her sidekick, Nerezza, now claims to be able to see the dreams of those outside the FAYZ.
And people are believing her.
Or is it all a LIE?Someone who was previously dead in the power plant battle is alive and walks among the living.
Caine, on a suggestion by Bug, believes that there is an island that is still stocked with food and water.
Finally had the time to finish this book today.To be honest, I tend to read more stand-alone books over long series because it's much easier for me to take in all the details and story.
The Gone series has been on my shelf since around early 2016 and I'm glad to finally get to it.
I'm glad that I'm nearing the end of the series, and I look forward to seeing how things turn out.Oh, I'm always open to good stand-alone recommendations so if you've got some you're welcome to send them my way!
So I've been reading this book alongside the Walking Dead graphic novel series and I don't know what it is about post-apocalyptic lit but it takes me a couple volumes to appreciate and understand the severity with which these characters are in. I was in the middle of Lies when the brick hit me and the full weight of the FAYZ registered. Grant is phenomenal with building up suspense and making the situation seem hopeless and dire and then somehow he makes the world bearable for at least another book. Can't wait to read Plague!
Honestly, was this Hunger with a new cover stuck on it? 90% of the book was just the same story, except with more fire and brimstone crap in it. And stupid me persisted with it. That's it for me. I'm done. Be gone!Good day sir...I said, good day.
Actual rating: 3,5 starsWhile I enjoyed more the previous installment, this one was really good too. I like the fact that they're focused in the problems they face, in the social aspect, rather than pushing some romance and lovey-dovey moments down my throat. Plus, the characters (all of them) have /real/ flaws, even the most powerful ones.
I fell in love with series awhile ago. It is such a strong series with great character development. It describes situations that are still relevant today. I'm getting geared up by re reading the series to get ready for Monster which is releasing in October.
I have to get this book!
Wow what a great idea it is to burn down your town as an act of rebellion! Also this whole connection between drake and Britney is SCREWED UP. Anyways this book was v strange, but still pretty good.
Relectura para la #LCBESTMENTIRAS que organicé en el blog y OMG
