https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57913.The_Illuminatus_Trilogy
- As science fiction it would get 2 - As philosophy it would get 1 (the world-view it argues for is much better discussed in other books--some of them even by RAW) - As humor it would get 3.
Maybe 4 on a good day - As conspiracy theory it would get 4 - As research it doesn't even rate 1 - As a good guide to things to research for yourself, it's a solid 4 (great game: open to a random page and pick 5 things to look up in a library)But it crosses the line on two things: * Cultural references that make points and explain things in the SF/geek/outcase/introvert subcultures.
So minor, in fact, that I find it difficult to take seriously any claim that the lack of such breaks somehow ruined the story.It was a deliberate effect by the authors, meant to impart information realistically and force the reader to take a more active role.
The authors invite comparison between moments, events, and characters which, in most other books, would be separated by the strict delineation of the page break.But then, the surest sign of genius is the ability to synthesize new data from the confluence of apparently disparate parts, as Da Vinci did one day while studying the eddies in a stream for a painting, finding himself suddenly struck by the notion that the heart would pump blood more efficiently by forming such swirling eddies in its chamber instead of working as a simple pump.
When I recommend this book, it's usually with the caveat that the authors are sort of bumbling about and finding their feet for the first 80 or so pages.When it finally does start moving along, the reader finds his- or her-self bombarded with multiple, conflicting realities and extremist, revolutionary politics from all points of the spectrum.
This book invites the reader to become more skeptical, but also to start thinking about what he or she thinks about the world and why.The narrative is experimental; Wilson has an obvious admiration of Joyce that shows up not just here, but also in his lectures and more autobiographical books.
As is probably not ironic for a book considered to be the holy grail of conspiracy theory, it's definitely not difficult to perceive the Illuminatus Trilogy as an act of intellectual terrorism.
The best analogy I can think of for this book is that it's like reading someone else's acid trip, and that someone else is criminally schizophrenic and watching 15 televisions at the same time.
If you're not up for a difficult read, you may not want to bother.
But if you do find you like it, you might be happy to know that it's a hell of a lot easier to read the second time through.
But when I was 13, that was 1979: the jokes about Nixon, late 60s and early 70s rock bands, the coming of disco, the obscure neopagan nonsense that washed through every college campus in the late 1980s, bizarre alternative histories and conspiracies theories, were hilarious and fascinating.There's even a page from the Principia Discordia mentioned, and that too was life changing, because in tiny print in one corner it contained this quote: "When I was 8 or 9 years old I acquired my first split beaver magazine.
is a historical oddity and a good one, but unless you have a grasp of that history, Illuminatus!
I say this because I read the Illuminatus!
trilogy the very first thing after stumbling into reading Ayn Rand's Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged in high school, as a fairly bright and moderately-creative geek, which qualities looked even more exaggerated by relative comparison to a very small class size.
That's like getting injected with concentrated live-culture viruses after your immune system has been taken out by heavy radiation blasts.But the Illuminatus!
trilogy is like a gene-tailored antidote to that.
It couldn't fully open the Third Nostril, but it loosened things up in there for the eventual forceful blow.
I don't know if it's a good thing or not that it took me twenty years or so to finally getting around to reading this (as a note: I haven't owned the book for 20 years, I actually bought it right before I started reading it, but it had been something I had felt I 'should' read on and off for the past two decades).
this is how I think, and because it's so convoluted kind of insane sounding and often times seemingly contradictory it's also the reason why I don't talk about politics (or almost anything actually) with people...
The authors thought they were WAY more clever and intellectual than they really were.
Mostly these books were pretentious and boring and a regurgitation of themes that had been explored numerous times in numerous other places.
Not to mention the fact that the whole trilogy pretends to be building up to some huge world-altering event that never actually happens.
It's like the authors finally realized after 3 books that they didn't really know what they were trying to say or where they wanted the plot to go, so they just decided to end it.
A huge, utter, complete waste of time.
As I'm having trouble summarizing this book myself, I've decided to quote the meta-review of their book which the authors wrote into the novel:"'It's a dreadfully long monster of a book,' Wildeblood says pettishly, 'and I certainly won't have time to read it, but I'm giving it a thorough skimming.
It starts out as a detective story, switches to science-fiction, then goes off into the supernatural, and is full of the most detailed information of dozens of ghastly boring subjects.
If you either like science fiction or are skeptical of privilege and politics, you should read it.
The politics may be questionable but the psychological and philosophical insights are less so, even if presented in quasi-Zen parables and obfuscatory occultism.The Trilogy (and the 'serious' Appendices, with no more 'truth' in them than any other part of the books) offers us versions of a number of theories questioning the reality that we create out of our sense perceptions and, in particular, social reality.This questioning of social reality will last far longer than the political satire and the book's somewhat stock appropriation of cultural memes, such as Lovecraftian monsters and Nazis waiting to rise to make blood sacrifices to 'immanentize the eschaton'.The book is justified by its bringing these thoughts about social reality subliminally to thousands of young people in every generation although, sadly, for every one who gets it, ten or a hundred will not and cease to be as functional in their own interest as they might.Many observers have not noted that, as a book of constant paradox, the Trilogy, with its twists and turns has inherent fascistic aspects too - the elite eroticism, the leadership principle underpinning Hagbard, the cyclical views of history, the appropriation of traditionalism.
I was 1/4 way through "Leviathan" (the third and final book in the trilogy) before calling it quits.
It got so repetitive to read and the stuff they daresay call "humor" was well, kinda boring and not original at all.I meant to review this trilogy after I read it but it sort of just left my mind until my mom brought the book home that she borrowed from a co-worker a couple weeks ago.
I then started Leviathan and called it quits by page 100 or so.Even though I thought this book was boring and unoriginal, do I hate this trilogy?
Yes, there are plenty of places where you are going to have NO IDEA just what is going on, you are going to have to go back and re read passages to understand them, and you do need to read all of the appendices if you want to fully get it.That being said, this book has great rewards to offer.
I can't even begin to try to explain the way that this book changed the way I think, and the way I see the world.
And if course, when you're reading it, it's perfectly acceptable, even encouraged, to laugh at anything you aren't sure about.This is one of those books I think Everyone should read.
Hail Eris!
Hail Discordia!Every so many years or so, the world becomes and unrecognizably strange place and I am drawn to Illuminatus!
This current misinformational and confusingly conspiritorial age isn't quite what RAW may have predicted, but at least he tried to go there.
Oh how he (and Shea) went there.
On so many levels.The tale of Hagbard Celine and all the contradictory theories of just what the hell is really going on, and what a ride it is.Hmm I do wonder how it would play out if written today...
if every conspiracy theory online was true, how would that work?
The reader quickly learns not to be surprised when any given perspective on the story begins to break down, so there is little room for these shifts to have anything like the impact of ordinary "plot twists."Reading the trilogy ultimately feels a lot like surfing the internet in search of information about conspiracy theories.
Much of the trilogy is written with a deliberate sense of artifice, as if the authors want their characters to feel like they are outgrowths of ideas -- cliches, conspiracy theories, ideologies -- rather than organic, independent beings.
For me, this book was a moment of Awakening, and the changes I wrought in myself after first reading continue to reverberate today.
Part of the awakening aspect I spoke about for me was figuring out what it was everyone was so worked up about when I was a kid, and seeing the political world through the eyes of concerned and disillusioned adults.I suspect one of the reason people have difficulty reading it is that it is written in an experimental and seemingly random third-person omniscient perspective, which floats into the first person and occasionally changes from past tot present tense.
Approaching this book like a puzzle is the best way to read it, in my opinion. It is a puzzle, linking many pieces into a loose network of organizations, individuals and leaders. It reveals the loosely linked nature of the Elite influencers at the top. Going in this book talking it lightly, I completely enjoyed it. I also learned a great deal about the Elite.
I almost gave up a couple of times but I am glad I didn't.The book presents every conspiracy theory known to man in a fashion that seems to defy coherent timeline and consistency.
The story comes together not through a timeline, but like seemingly random brush strokes on a canvas makes a painting.Couple this with a truly paranoid story, strange characters, sexual perversion, and lots of drugs, and you have a truly unique and disconcerting tale that leaves you wondering if you had been secretly slipped LSD while you were reading.
Couldn't finish it. Didn't even finish the first book in the trilogy. Interesting. Ever-shifting in perspective like   Ulysses , but Ulysses unlocalized. Instead of focusing on one person on one day in a very distinct place, it looks at a number of disparate people all over the world in places both real and imaginary, with no regard for chronology. Some fine writing in there, but the hyper-leaps from the JFK assassination to underwater battles over Atlantis to graphically-described sex rituals (
Couldn't finish it. Didn't even finish the first book in the trilogy. Interesting. Ever-shifting in perspective like 
   Ulysses
, but Ulysses unlocalized. Instead of focusing on one person on one day in a very distinct place, it looks at a number of disparate people all over the world in places both real and imaginary, with no regard for chronology. Some fine writing in there, but the hyper-leaps from the JFK assassination to underwater battles over Atlantis to graphically-described sex rituals (sometimes without even a paragraph break!) are just a little too messy for my taste.
I like this book because it takes every conspiracy theory that existed prior to 1975 and weaves them into a grand narrative of the 'haves' pulling a fast one on the 'have nots' since before the beginning of recorded human history.
Burroughs, I think you have to examine RAW's work in the context of him being such a defining force in the American underground culture.
Having said this, I do have one major complaint about this work.
This is one of those books that has too many damned characters involved in too many damned things.
This book literally changed my life, and I can only believe for the better.Countless bizarre ideas and ideologies are brought together in a raucous, chaotic storyline spun through three volumes.
Discordianism, Kabbalah, the Church of the Sub-Genius, elaborate retellings of conspiracy theory and countless other bizarre and interesting ideological landscapes get mashed together into what I can only describe as a snapshot of all those eddies and pools that can't quite make it into the main stream.This book has a sort of cult classic status to it.
It's got an uneven narrative and the characters range from human to cartoon, sometimes within the same character.
This book was so unbelievably aggravating to read it's hard to fully explain. There are no chapters, three gazillion characters and plots, and most of them are on acid the whole time, so it's nearly impossible to keep track of what's happening. But, there's so much information in it that everyone should know about the rich history of conspiracy theories and mythology that it's hard not to recommend it. Basically, this is a book that you want to have read, but not to actively read.
INTIMIDATION FACTORSOver 800 pages (though the pages span over three books)Who in the world are these authors?You don't want to be caught in public holding a book that looks like this.Not for the dogmatically sensitive.The plot of Illuminatus!
isn't hack writing like Dan Brown.Could I convince you to read it knowing that you can expect talking dolphin poets fighting off a secret government's pop stars' zombie Nazi army during a Woodstock type of a rock festival?
History nuts aside, who really remembers precisely when historical events took place, rather than ‘in the past’ or ‘in my textbook?’Put your Dan Brown and Hot Chocolate down, and request that the bookstore orders a copy of the Illuminatus!
Best book I've read all year. I can't describe it. I can only say that my reading list has quadrupled since adding sources I learned of from this book. It is ostensibly about a detective investigating a bombing, but it is actually about everything and I'm not being hyperbolic. I will recommend it to every smart person I know. It blew my mind so hard. They have me investigating Buddhism, magick, negative-interest currencies, Discordianism, Gestalt therapy, game theory, and so so much more. It connects the dots of our fragmented society to create a whole picture.READ IT!
conspiracy theorists burned this book while everyone else rejoiced. at one point the devil emerges on LSD (no Lake Shore Drive) at an apartment in the form of billy graham. yeah right! and there are talking dolphins. now go back in read those words in a random order, interjecting any three letter acronym you can think of, and piece together what they might try to mean and effectively 5+5+4=5 and you'll know what i mean
The only work of fiction I needed to take notes with. It has lingered with my thoughts for a decade. Something to read when you want to make reading an entertaining feat.
The passage of time has not completely been kind to it as far as I'm concerned; it's "everything and the kitchen sink" approach to storytelling seems a bit haphazard, but it's still clever and a lot of fun.
Just about every cool thing you can think of, especially if you're a young person of a certain bent attracted to weird subcultural niches, has been thrown into this tome: Atlantis, drugs, sex, rock 'n' roll, Lovecraft, Nazis, gnostic cults, the kennedy assassination, the end of the world, Crowley, zombies, mind control....yep, it's all here and then some.
It's essentially inflated pulp which at times employs some experimental writing tricks, especially where extended drug trips are concerned.
The authors hint near the end that those who read it may not understand it fully for months or even years but that it would still have the effect of the repetition of certain Buddhist modes of writing and cause a fundamental shift in sensibility (something I also later encountered in a brilliant novel called Gojiro).
Reading it again as only affirmed that, as it was even more powerful now that I understand all of the references (I even found a copy of the Monk along with it in a little library that same day).
Keeps switching tense, point-of-view, moves between first person perspective of multiple and conflicting characters over space and time.
Some amazing research of conspiracy theories but the jumping back and forth between characters and points of view is still dizzying and confusing but so far worthwhile, if slow-going.
03/05/2013 Now up to page 350-ish and into the 2nd book.
The authors are utterly incompetent--no sense of style or structure at all.
You can be sure I won't waste time reading such rubbish, but I'll have a perfectly devastating review ready for you by tomorrow noon.'" At least somewhat accurate...
The difference here is that, like many conspiracy theorists, the authors propose that the Illuminati never disbanded and continue to run the world behind the scenes.Reading author Robert Anton Wilson's susequent works, some inspired by his friendship with LSD guru and rumored CIA operative Timothy Leary, reveal him to be a true skeptic towards all conspiracy theories, and in fact he was often accused of being a government disinfo agent himself.
Another fact most people don't know is that Discordia, whose principles are woven throughout the trilogy, was actually the invention of a real-life character related to the JFK assassination.
Both are wonderful, and this may affect how much I like the book.A less flattering take comes from a character in the book (yes, they included a character for the sole fnord purpose of panning the book they were writing - it's that kind of weird):"It's a dreadfully long monster of a book, and I certainly won't have time to read it, but I'm giving it a thorough skimming.
Worst yet, it has the most raunchy sex scenes, thrown in just to make it sell, I'm sure, and the authors--whom I've never heard of--have the supreme bad taste to introduce real political figures into this mishmash and pretend to be exposing a real conspiracy.
