https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229733.The_White_Guard
Elena's husband Captain Talberg would leave for battle, as the household enters a fragile and worrying time.The city itself is vivid to the eyes, as confusion grows on the streets as to who is fighting with who?, through all it's unorganized chaos, Bulgakov does a grand job of showing just that, the chaos.Nothing is ever perceived clear as to what is actually going on, in terms of leadership.Bulgakov asserted that Kiev changed hands some 14 times in little over a year, and could have written an epic Tolstoyish novel that covers more ground, but this is more of a snapshot, a panoramic view, moving from character to character at regular intervals, and it's length pleased me fully.
العمل الروائي الأول للكاتب الروسي المبدع ميخائيل بولجاكوفنُشرت عام 1925 في مجلة روسيا, وقامت السلطات
La spada sparirà, ma le stelle resteranno anche quando le ombre dei nostri corpi e delle nostre opere non saranno più sulla terra.
Perché dunque non vogliamo rivolgere lo sguardo alle stelle?
Perché?"Fino alle due e mezza di stanotte, angosciatissima per Aleksej Vasil'evič Turbin, sconvolto dal tifo.
Per quanto il romanzo sia vivacizzato dall'estro dello scrittore, il lettore non viene risparmiato da quella vertigine terribile che si prova leggendo i severi romanzi di tradizione russa.
I destini miserabili dei protagonisti appartengono ai vinti, non ai vincitori.
P.S. Alla luce dei tremendi avvenimenti che tempestano oggi l'Ucraina, questo romanzo si dimostra ancora di più portentoso.
Και εγένετο ο Κόκκινος Στρατός.Η αντίσταση στο νέο εργατικό καθεστώς του Λένιν, το όποιο ανήλθε στην εξουσία εν μια ιστορική νυκτι στην Πετρούπολη, αρχίνισε από την επομένη κιόλας ημέρα .Παλιοί μοναρχικοί, αντικαθεστωτικοί, η καταργηθείσα Δουμά με τα αστικά πολιτικά της κόμματα, η απελθούσα μεσαία τάξη εναντιώθηκαν, εξεδήλωσαν πίστη στην Προσωρινή Αστική Κυβέρνηση της Φεβρουαριανής Επανάστασης και η έναρξη ενός οδυνηρού πολύπλευρου Εμφυλίου Πολέμου υπό τις ευλογιές των Ευρωπαϊκών Δυνάμεων –που ανησυχούσαν από την μεριά τους για την εξάπλωση των σοσιαλιστικών ιδεών- είναι γεγονός.
''Ερυθρός Οφθαλμoν αντί Λευκού Οφθαλμού'' για μια ακόμη πολιτική κ ιδεολογική επικράτηση.Δεκέμβριος του 1918, βρισκόμαστε στην παγωμένη κ ντυμένη στην καταχνιά Ουκρανία, στην γενέτειρα Πόλη του Μπουλγκακωφ, στο Κίεβο που δοκιμάζεται και από τον δικό της Εμφύλιο πόλεμο μεταξύ ακραίων Ουκρανών εθνικιστών/συμμοριτών και ένα συνονθύλευμα από Λευκοφρουρους, αντιμπολσεβικικούς, μοναρχικούς, Γερμανούς κτλ.
Outstanding.Told through multiple points of view, the book centers upon two days in the Russian Civil war, December 13 and 14, 1918, when the city of Kiev, up to then controlled by the Ukrainian Hetman Skoropadsky, a German puppet and ally of the Monarchist Russians, falls to the armies of Petlyura, a Ukranian peasant nationalist, a figure of mystery and rumor.
Although it describes the taking of Kiev from the White side, it shows that the real loyalty in this world lives in one's family (the Turbins) and friends (the officers), a total stranger who saves your life, or a superior who holds his ground in the face of a dissolving defense.
Bulgakov’s writing is transcendent:For many years before her death, in the house at No. 13 St. Alexei’s Hill, little Elena, Alexei the eldest and baby Nikolka had grown up in the warmth of the tiled stove that burned in the dining-room.
The author, as surely as the characters, must have had little enthusiasm for revolutionary politics.In the end, perhaps the highest praise I can give is that it would be difficult to read “The White Guard” without becoming attached to the Turbin family.
I wasn't sure if Bulgakov's first novel, described as a historical novel about the fortunes of the city of Kiev in the year 1918, as the repercussions of the Russian revolution and the tail-end of the first world war play out, would be as good as his satirical masterpieces, The Master And Margarita and Black Snow.
It seems like a subjective, potentially opaque conceit, but Bulgakov makes it work brilliantly.
A good deal of his tale is told through dreams - again something potentially confusing and tedious that he does incredibly well.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:1/2: Kiev is protected by an uneasy alliance. Two brothers discover it's a bad time to be Tsarist. Stars Paul Hilton and James Loye.2/2: The Turbin brothers find their survival skills tested, and Elena is driven to intense prayer. http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00761h8
“Blood is cheap on those red fields...”It is 1918, and Kiev in the Ukraine is at the swirling centre of the forces unleashed by war and revolution.
I found the beginning of this book rather difficult because I had no idea who all the various factions and real-life characters were, nor what they were attempting to achieve.
It gives an only too credible feeling for the chaos in the city, for people not knowing what's happening, and for each new rumour spreading like wildfire.
A truly brilliant book that, while concentrating on one small city, gives a brutal and terrifyingly believable picture of the horrors unleashed in the wake of bloody revolution.

La narrazione procede a ritmo di valzer, e protagonisti della lenta e maestosa danza sono la storia, la città, i suoi cittadini e i contadini, le masse volubili che con le loro voci ne fanno un romanzo corale (a proposito: i cittadini che invocano un etmano qualsiasi in nome dell'ordine e della governabilità...
La molteplicità delle voci, dei luoghi e delle sfaccettature tematiche rende fin troppo banale il paragone con un grande affresco.
Quel che però manca è la lucentezza tipica di Bulgakov: la scrittura rimane un po' avvolta in quella stessa caligine che più volte viene descritta quando cala sulla città
Bulgakov coniuga abilmente romanzo storico e saga familiare narrando le vicende dei tre fratelli Turbin, la cui vita viene stravolta dai sanguinosi eventi di cui fu protagonista la Kiev degli anni 1918-20. Sebbene l'elemento paranormale, che ha reso famoso Bulgakov ne Il Maestro e Margherita, faccia solo una breve comparsa, lo stile dell'autore è immediatamente riconoscibile. Meravigliosa e unica la parte in cui Bulgakov descrive gli stati d'animo di Elena, Nikolka, Anjuta e Lariosik esclusivamente attraverso le posizioni delle lancette di un orologio!
Ο Bulgakov είναι, πλέον, αγαπημένος μου συγγραφέας, τύχη μεγάλη να πέσουν στα χέρια κάποιου τα βιβλία του, αέρας ελευθερίας στην ψυχήΤο βιβλίο: Μια περιγραφή των θηριωδιών και της ανεξήγητης τρέλας του πολέμου που κανείς δεν μπόρεσε να προβλέψει. Η ιστορία της Ουκρανίας συμπυκνωμένη στην αιματηρή αναλαμπή των δεινών του 1918-19. Όλα δοσμένα μέσα από την πένα του πεζογράφου-ποιητή που κεντάει την ομίχλη του Δνείπερου άλλοτε με ρεαλισμό και άλλοτε με αλληγορική αυθεντία.Γιατί ξεχνάμε να στρέφουμε το βλέμμα στα άστρα;
Trattasi di un romanzo storico (le sorti della Rivoluzione russa vissute nell'estremo lembo dell' ex impero, Kiev, Ucraina), narrato in uno stile sempre cangiante, ora ironico, ora Gogolianamente onirico, spesso semplicemente realistico e tragico, come tragico fu il periodo che racconta e come è enunciato nel bellissimo e giustamente famoso incipit: Grande fu, e terribile, l'anno 1918 dopo la nascita di Cristo, il secondo dall'inizio della rivoluzione.
Bulgakov visse questi eventi in prima persona, ne fa un resoconto preciso, cruento, descrivendo tanto i massacri di ex ufficiali bianchi che venivano cercati casa per casa dai bolscevichi, ammazzati a sciabolate per strada, come anche i pogrom contro gli ebrei messi in atto dai nazionalisti di Petljura.
но потом разобралась.структурно в «Белой гвардии» есть три компонента: а) части, где Булгаков пытается дать Общую Картину и показать Дух Времени — отрывистые и бессвязные, как «Морфий», и потому, на мой взгляд, крайне неудачные;б) сюжеты отдельных персонажей — в основном очень выразительные (линии Турбина и Юлии и Николки и Най-Турса запали в душу);в) абстрактные зарисовки.книга неровная, но в итоге финал всё для меня исправил.
устроен он так же, как в «Мастере и Маргарите»: камера отъезжает, и мы видим мистически-лирический пласт бытия, сны и идеи, — но, на мой взгляд, написан намного сильнее, чем в «МиМ».
After I finished reading the first time I went to the Introductions and read them.
But the one by Evgeny Dobrenko is totally marvelous, thoughtful and informative, giving background information on Bulgakov as well as the Ukranaian War of Independence (Russian Civil War).
The narrative gives off a strong bit of nostalgia for the old Russian Kiev - that’s where Bulgakov was from and the book is semi-autobiographical.
Also important in the book are the themes time is moving on and running out (so many clocks) and that everybody is running away.
***.This was the author’s first novel, and became better known by means of a play based on the book.
It is the story of the battles of the Russian Revolution as they occurred in around the city of Kiev.
Little is known about the battles on the Eastern Front during WW I, and about as much about the Revolution in the Ukraine region.
The only other work I’ve read by Bulgakov was “The Master and Margarita,” which was much more accessible.
Looking over other reviews after I had read the work, I found that there were many comments about this book being a masterpiece.
German troops are leaving Kiev to Petlura, controversial leader of Ukranian nationalists, the one who tries to gain his power through stirring a conflict between Russians and Ukrainians and Jews.
Big family of Turbins, Russian intelligent people and their friends.
Indeed it's a "War and piece" of Russian clerisy, their tragic fate and inadaptability and idealism.
Bulgakov came from this environment, he was from Kiev himself, all the main characters: Alexey Turbin, Nikolenka, Lariosik, Mushlaevsky, Shervinsky, Talberg have their protopypes in Bulgakov's real life.
And not only Ukranian turnmoil reflects with our times, but this difficult situation for intellectuals, when they are caught between own notions of events and the fear of political purges.
کتاب به نوعی خودزندگینامه نوشت بولگاکف است که از زبان توربینها نقل میشود. بطوریکه مادرتوربینها همان مادر خانواده بولگاکف است، آلکسی و نیکولا توربین همان برادران میخاییل بولگاکف هستند. اگر صد صفحهی ابتدایی کتاب رو در نظر نگیریم که به جزییات آرایش نیروهای نظامی در کییف اوکراین میپردازد، کتاب در مجموع توانسته است التهابات سالهای ۱۹۱۸ و ۱۹۱۹ اوکراین رو به خوبی نشان بدهد.
کتاب به نوعی خودزندگی‌نامه نوشت بولگاکف است که از زبان توربین‌ها نقل می‌شود. بطوریکه مادرتوربین‌ها همان مادر خانواده بولگاکف است، آلکسی و نیکولا توربین همان برادران میخاییل بولگاکف هستند. اگر صد صفحه‌ی ابتدایی کتاب رو در نظر نگیریم که به جزییات آرایش نیروهای نظامی در کییف اوکراین می‌پردازد، کتاب در مجموع توانسته است التهابات سال‌های ۱۹۱۸ و ۱۹۱۹ اوکراین رو به خوبی نشان بدهد.
4,5 estrellas
This book does an excellent job portraying the confusion and chaos in Kiev in December 1918. The White Guard defending the city are woefully outnumbered by those who are going to attack the city-- the Bolsheviks.The leaders of the Whites flee the city, leaving few instructions to those left behind, mostly Cadets. Many of the Cadets and officers are killed but some are able to flee.The Turbin family, two brothers and their sister, show how this confusion and disaster affected the people of Kiev on a more personal and emotional level.
Dopo aver adorato Il Maestro e Margherita e molto apprezzato Cuore di cane, avevo molte aspettative su questo romanzo, che sono state - alla prova della lettura - almeno in parte tradite.Questo è senza dubbio, fra ciò che ho letto di Bulgakov, il più russo dei suoi romanzi.
Come l'incertezza dell'oggi e del domani che bracca gli abitanti di Kiev.
Uno strato ovattato ricopre la narrazione, come neve immacolata attutisce i rumori fuori e dentro.Attorcigliato.
Si attende in casa protetti da tende color crema, circondati dai libri, il tempo scandito dai rintocchi dell'orologio.
Postuma.Il capitolo 5, poderoso, con la descrizione della morte a Kiev, anticipa il linguaggio e le atmosfere del Maestro e Margherita."Quindi ebbe inizio una vera e propria diavoleria, che si gonfiò e prese a saltellare come bolle di sapone.

I got astonished bylooking at the cover and seeing the names of the most prestigious Russian translators we have in Portugal (Nina Guerra & Filipe Guerra) I thought: well since I have a few books of Mikhail Bulgakov on my to-read list, I’ll just take this one as a first pitch.
It was a safe bet.Although the author is considered to be a disciple of Nikolai Gogol, I find this comparison a bit too much.
Sure he had and showed witty moments, but Nikolai Gogol shows a lot more consistency in his prose.
Maybe because its Mikhail Bulgakov first novel?
That'll teach them to have a revolution – didn't want their own masters, so now they can have a taste of another!'"----"Hundreds of heads in the choir-loft crowded one on another, jostling forward, hanging down over the balustrade between the ancient pillars adorned with smoke-blackened frescoes.
Craning, excited, leaning forward, pushing, they surged towards the balustrade trying to look down into the well of the cathedral, but could see nothing for the hundreds of heads already there, like rows of yellow apples.
Down in the abyss swayed a reeking, thousand-headed crowd, over which hovered an almost incandescent wave of sweat, steam, incense smoke, the lamp-black from hundreds of candles, and soot from heavy chain-hung ikon-lamps.
Hell of an evocation of Ukrainian Civil War from the vantage point of a pro-monarchy Russian family and their friends in Kiev.
As pointed out by others, it is ironic that Bulgakov and his characters see themselves as honorable reactionaries hoping to reinstate a tsar.
Russia and Ukraine as allies and trading partners could move forward faster together than as conqueror and conquered.
I know it’s complicated and that Russians also live in Ukraine but they’d all be better off as allies.
I've known people who live inside contemporary Ukrainian borders who identify as Ukrainian and those who identify as Russian.
This book is my second time reading Bulgakov.
The story takes place in 1918 Ukraine, after WWI, but where the Russian populace is knee deep in the revolution.
Although I enjoyed the book, I still found it to be heavy on symbolism and not as much based upon deep thought or insight into the mindset of the pro-monarchist during that time.
I was hoping to get some discourse on this point, but unfortunately, I found the book to be lacking in this regard.Overall, I enjoyed reading it, but I will have to look to other sources to bridge my knowledge gap here.
This book is a page turner at it's finest- not because it is action packed and full of cheesy cliffhangers, but because Bulgakov's writing style so successfully recreates for the reader the torturous confusion these characters experienced in this bizarre time of war- and these characters and I want to figure out what the hell is happening!
And who the hell is this Petlyura fellow anyway?The narration of these events taking place in Kiev during Russian Civil War is given through many different perspectives.
Bulgakov makes the City come to life so thoroughly with vivid descriptions of objects and places that reach out to all of ones senses, always unique but through reappearing motifs.
This is especially true when we look back to contemplate the uneasy history of UkrSSR that followed and hundreds of thousands of people's lives destroyed in successive expropriation and forced industrialisation.
I would recommend this book to those who have Russian ancestry (first wave emigration) and want to understand what pushed them to leave and how uneasy this decision was in a WWI Europe; it is also somewhat representative of my great-grand uncle family story.
