https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/212680.Tales_of_Deltora
Even though I already knew the history of Deltora from reading (and rereading and rerereading...) the three Deltora series, this book was still enthralling and a brilliant read.
I became stressed during the Battle for Deltora, even though I knew full well how it ended!
I am madly in love with the beautiful world of Deltora, and I loved every moment of its history.
My favorite part of this book was getting to know Adin, and seeing the similarities between him and Lief.
The Deltora series are truly some of my favorite books, and this book is no exception.
Until I had to read a fantasy novel for school.I couldn't find anything interesting in the library (which was like a labyrinth for me), so I went to the local book store.
There, this book caught my eye with its magical cover.I never heard or read anything of Deltora, but this book made me feel like I knew Deltora my whole life.The first stories lead to a climatic battle in which you couldn't possibly tell how it would end.Some people say the ending was very depressing compared to the rest of the story, and they're right.
After reading the adventures of our three friends in the three serieses, I thought I knew Deltora like the back of my hand.
I'm glad I got to read it because Deltora Quest is such a wonderful set of books and it was a shame I finishthed them all without being able to experiance them freshly again.
Reading this book took me back to those times I glued my eyes to those books as Leif, Jasmine and Barda went their adventures to save their land.
It was great and I hope to find more Deltora books to read soon.
Though I was never a big fan of either Deltora quest books or the Deltora door books I found this collection of stories very enticing and I my now start reading the Deltora quest books. I like how the story develops from the vision of the future in a different land.
No, not the best of books, but I was obsessed with this in elementary (or middle?) school. The production values are high; I loved the illustrations.
The way in which the tales are broken up into short ‘folklore’ stories means that this book is really easy to read.
After all, each short story has its own theme, message and journey.
But, read in one big hit, as a whole, and with the rest of the Deltora series in mind, the overarching message and story comes to light.Tales of Deltora brings Emily Rodda’s world of Deltora alive.
Turning the page is like opening a doorway into a whole new world every time.
If the words don’t make it difficult to turn away from this book, the pictures make it nigh on impossible.
Secondly, it is just so well-written and amazing.Some of this history was a review for me since I've read all of the Deltora books, but it was cool to have all of the mythology/history all in one place.
Benefit to before is that you know all of the history and backstory stuff going into it so you can pick out where it is referenced in the actual series as you read.
Benefit to after (like I did) is that you can recall where the stories/histories popped up in the series as you read about them here.
It was so awesome to go along with Adin's adventure of completing the Belt of Deltora. It's amazing how Emily Rodda can come up with a new concept each time Adin needs to get a gem. It's seriously so hard not to imagine the characters from the Deltora Quest into the Tales of Deltora. A book worth reading
This book catalogues the importance of remembering historical teachings to defeat those who would do evil, and reads like King Arthur's Quest. Good stuff, though I didn't really like the illustrations.
I always feel a tiny bit cheated when I hear of an excellent story told within the book I'm reading, but never get to hear it myself.
I feel like it gets reduced to a plot device when it could be a useful world-building tool.This book alleviates a lot of that frustration, as I got to see within the Tales not just the stories sprinkled throughout the multiple Deltora series, but they provided little tidbits about the land and hints about conditions that led to certain things: Hira before its fall, The weird apple orchard and its strange bees, the development of the Shadow Lord before he became a shapeless being.I also just love any sort of fairy tale, so there's that.
This book not only tells the mythology of Deltora (without being dull) but the history that it tells is important the the Deltora books. It really does fill in the gaps that existed if you just read the parts that told the main story. (And its two sequels)
For fans of the Deltora Quest series, this book is a companion volume. It contains stories and legends from the time before the Quest documented in the original eight installments. If you liked the series, you will find this book entertaining.
I read this book a long time ago along with the entire Deltora Quest series, the Deltora Shadowlands series, and the Dragons of Deltora series. It was a great companion to them and looking at it now brings back naught but the fondest of memories.
Some decent stories if you read Deltora as a child. Art is garish and flashy but otherwise unremarkable.
I really enjoyed reading the common place tales for the Deltora series. Quite a few references now actually make sense. The ending though was just like the main series and I found that intriguing.
quite interesting
i dont read it ! but i want read it !
A great collection of stories from the magical land of Deltora; they are more than just that, however: between the stories lies a hidden plotline...
Great tales of deltora good classic book
interesting but not the best. stil i recomend you read these tails
really a intresting book ^^
As good as the others, just read it.
