https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280513.The_Drowning_Pool
Archer is hired to track down a writer of blackmail letters, but soon the waters become murkier: someone drowns in an actual pool, and Archer's investigation of the murder reveals how the survivors are caught in an undertow of family wounds and crime.Archer shows us three effective portraits of women: an upper class lady who tightly controls her passions, her haunted, intellectual daughter, and a femme fatale with shady ties and suspicious motives.
In addition, there's an effective study of a young psychopath on the make, a convincing portrait of a working class community being gradually destroyed by the depredations and easy money of recent industrial development, and a suspenseful and exciting account of how Archer escapes from the hydrotherapy room of a bogus psych hospital by creating a unique sort of "drowning pool."
This time a frightened woman named Maude Slocum came to him offering his a small sum of money to investigate a poison pen letter addressed to her husband where a "concerned citizen" was warning the latter about his wife's less than discrete behavior with another man.
Archer decided the family itself would be a good starting point only to have the dead body I mentioned above promptly showing.
Because when I read it I could not help comparing this book with the classic of genre Raymond Chandler and Lew Archer with Philip Marlowe.
In the conclusion this is a good book and I eagerly await to start reading the next novel of the series.
Since I chose not to go into details about plot (although I might mention that I was a tad disappointed by how many times our gumshoe got knocked out senseless by the bad guys), I thought I would entice potential readers with a few examples of the surprisingly poetic turn of phrase and introspective moments that balance the bloody fists and the gun action.On the subject of the detective as a voyeur, of the call of the night that is so strong in some people’s lives: I felt like a lonely cat, an aging tom ridden by obscure rage, looking for torn-ear trouble.
An easy read, full of descriptions of seedy places and seedier goings on, Archer is always quick with a quip and a smart simile or metaphor but it all feels so perfunctory; twist here, contrivance there, two-faced dame, crooked police, lying client, woman in peril, a couple of thugs for the protagonist to beat up, corporate mogul villain, two separate plots tie magically together by the end. Not a classic by a mile.
The dialogue is on target, always, the plot is such that the reader is never sure who the bad guys are since they keep flipping, excepting Lew Archer, P.I., of course, private investigator extraordinaire.
I was saying to myself and at times, out loud, “Wow, didn’t see that coming!” Hope to read as many of the old masters, such as Cain (various protagonists), Hammitt (Sam Spade), Chandler (Phillip Marlowe), and this great author, Ross Macdonald.
They’re the early detective books and considered hard-boiled.
Fortunately for us, the readers, these writers set the bar high for contemporary authors such as Robert Crais(Elvis Cole, P.I.); Robert B.
"Please don't be nasty, Archer. What's your first name, anyway?""Lew. You can call me Archer." I think I enjoyed this novel even more than the previous Lew Archer entry, The Moving Target .It starts out very slowly. An attractive woman in her late 30's shows up at Archer's office. She's intercepted a threatening letter addressed to her husband alleging an extra-marital affair the woman, Maude Slocum, hashad with a male unknown.Mrs. Slocum is reluctant to share much more information with Archer.
I think I enjoyed this novel even more than the previous Lew Archer entry, The Moving Target .It starts out very slowly.
She's intercepted a threatening letter addressed to her husband alleging an extra-marital affair the woman, Maude Slocum, hashad with a male unknown.Mrs. Slocum is reluctant to share much more information with Archer.
The rest of the noise came from the booths that lined three walls of the room, and from the dance-floor in the middle where twenty or thirty couples whirled in the smoke.
From that rock-house of a bar in the fictional new oil-rich town of Quinto, California, Archer follows a thread that leads him to Los Angeles:
A definite improvement over The Moving Target, this second Lew Archer outing has all the hallmarks of a quality PI mystery: blackmail, a dysfunctional family with money and a lifetime of grudges against one another, murder, gangsters, a femme fatale, corporate greed, a dubious doctor, dirty cops, bludgeonings and druggings, and a daisy-chain of hidden motives, buried secrets and tragic misunderstandings leading to an inevitable outcome where no one is innocent and the guilty are only all too human.
Lew Archer shucks off some of his obvious Phillip Marlowe veneer and reveals himself as a more sensative private eye than Chandler's misanthropic hero.
I really enjoyed Lew Archer.
There are some incredibly rich scenes in this novel, that I enjoyed.
Particularly those when Archer battles with his nature and his morals.
The temptation of Acapulco and Mavis, and the touching gift to Gretchen were stand out moments of writing to me.
I enjoyed Ross' writing, in fairness it is not as metaphor rich as Chandler's first, but is still first class.
Chandler is, I've discovered, in a class of his own!
The plot was ok-ish, some moments of brilliance but on the whole quite pedestrian.
This is the second novel by Ross Macdonald I've read and I'm not really impressed.
There's a lot of woman-hating dressed up as condescending chivalry and Macdonald's depiction of a pair of crypto-gays (he never comes right out and says that's what they are)is cliched and shallow, especially weighed against Archer recalling his father's friend's scent of 'clean masculine sweat' (what the fuck is clean sweat?) and other bits of manly-man romanticism like the final bout of fisticuffs with a local police chief.
On the other hand, there are some stunning moments like Archer's escape from a hydrotherapy clinic lock-up and the masterfully conjured squalid atmosphere conjured in his examination of a murder suspect's boarding-house room.
About equal in quality with The Moving Target.
The best thing about the first two novels is the character of Lew Archer.
For an example, I will turn to a page randomly for a wisecrack*.
Archer, upon confronting someone he had shot in one arm earlier in the book, "I swung the door wide open and waved my gun.
'you don't want it to happen to the other arm, I have a passion for symmetry".I am happy to read that the Archer books don't peak until about Book 11 or so (The Zebra-Striped Hearse) and the quality stays high throughout.
I’m still fairly new to the world of Ross Macdonald and Lew Archer, but I’ve greatly enjoyed what I’ve read so far. This one starts with poison-pen letters and speeds quickly to dead bodies, femme fatales and gangsters. Of course, this being Macdonald, there’s a lot more psychological insight than one would normally find in this type of thriller. Pacy, well plotted with great descriptions and synonyms, this book is up there with Chandler – and, in my world, there’s no higher praise than that.
The Drowning Pool is Ross Macdonald's second book in his Lew Archer series, but it's my first foray into this author's work.
With eighteen series novels and two short story collections, there's a lot about this world-weary gumshoe to explore.Lew Archer is called upon to investigate an anonymous poison pen letter sent to his client, Maude Slocum.
Speaking of the end, I'm not so sure it's the best ending this book could have had, but as Archer himself notes, "The happy endings and the biggest oranges were the ones that California saved for export."I love discovering "new" authors, and I liked The Drowning Pool enough to merit another go at Macdonald.
More great American crime/detective writing.I've read three novels and a collection of short fiction my Mr. Macdonald (nee' Kenneth Millar) now and I remain impressed.
In any event, it is a great novel one that should appeal to readers of all kinds, not just mystery buffs.Like all of the long form fiction of his that I have read, this book is full of characters and sub-plots.
Like the best of the noir protagonists his inner drive to do what is right forces him to push through to the end no matter how much he loses or gives up to get there.In this book, Macdonald writes about the development of southern California.
"I felt like a lonely cat, an aging tom ridden by obscure rage, looking for torn-ear trouble. I clipped that pitch off short & threw it away. Night streets were my territory, and would be till I rolled in the last gutter."Another excellent Lew Archer novel.
This series is becoming better and better...4* The Moving Target (Lew Archer #1)4* The Drowning Pool
The story's main conflict revolves around a series of blackmail letters and mysterious deaths afflicting a dispossessed upper-class family that happens to oppose said renewal as a consequence of old money looking down at the nouveau riche.
Scott Fitzgerald to something almost like a more "safe-for-work" Charles Bukowski - a shift between two different atmospheres Macdonald gets quite a bit of mileage out of.My favourite thing about "The Drowning Pool", though, has to be a scene near the end functioning as a microcosmos of the author's attention to the most important small details in the central structure of the story's underlying conflict: The climax features a well thought out twist on the "villainous mastermind captures protagonist and explains entire scheme to him" cliché where the main antagonist of the story does that because he genuinely thinks he can buy off Lew Archer into working for him, and doesn't even attempt to kill him until later when Archer attempts to escape.
I can see why this is a classic – on the level of craft it’s quite formidable – but it just didn’t sock me in the guts like Goodis or Thompson, and its debt to Chandler is a little too obvious.
Still, I’ll bet Macdonald’s dependable: I’ve only read one other Archer novel but it was much like this one, dull and brilliant in equal measure, and so smooth I slid to its end without pause.
Macdonald can wait―he ain’t going nowhere.I was walking in the gravel bed of a dry river.
She had Mavis’s face, but her laugh cawed like the parrot’s.
At first it feels very like Chandler and Hammett - the tradition it comes from.
This comes across partly from the acerbic musings of Archer, but also as the book develops into a broader portrayal of the disconnected society which contains the naive down at heels with dreams and no real hope - but alongside the well heeled isolated and unhappy people who the down at heels aspire to be.
The more you read the more you see how this author is an inspiration for James Ellroy.Quite a complex piece of story telling so next time I read a Macdonald I shall pay closer attention.
BOOK 54: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon (Round 2)A second book by Ross MacDonald, from 1950.Hook=2 stars: "If you didn't look at her face she was less than 30, quick-bodied and slim as a girl" opens the book.
"The young hepcats high on music or weed...the hopeful floozies and the despairing ones....from green youth to apoplexy." Summary: 3.4 is my overall rating: Los Angeles is the star here, and worth the read for a 1950s visit.The Zebra Striped Hearse (1962): 4.2The Drowning Pool (1950): 3.4Ross MacDonald author average: 3.8
Unlike the recent Thompson book The Grifters (set in the same time period and locations) which I found a bit too Dostoevsky-like, Ross MacDonald delivers well crafted, excellently plotted novels that leave one little to doubt as to the skill of this author.
The pacing of his style is superb, timed just right, delivering punch bowls of satisfaction to sip from.Lew Archer is a curious private eye, seeming to shun involvement with women though he is attracted to them which leaves tension in the minds of the reader.
Before I tried Ross Macdonald's writing I'd become a major fan of his wife, Canadian mystery writer Margaret Millar's books.
The first Lew Archer book I read was The Archer Files, a collection of short stories featuring his noir PI, Lew Archer.
Archer is hired by Maude Slocum to investigate a threatening letter she had received.
Archer is hesitant to take the case as Mrs. Slocum provides little to no information to help him in his investigation.
One thing I've noticed about the few Archer stories I've read so far is that they don't mind being gritty.
Millar and MacDonald are a powerful writing duo.
For all the great potential tension in unexplained secret relationships, the father-who's-not-a-father (that "secret" isn't really a secret), not to mention that wonderful ancient hacienda, there's too many weaknesses in this one for a pro: too much explaining incongruous dialog in terms of, 'If she hadn't looked so serious, I would have found her dialog incongruous,' instead of simply writing believable dialog; too much of the hot babe who wants a piece of the detective, with a cutesy play on the title (which supposedly refers to the swimming pool the victim got pushed into), "[kissing her] was like a drowning pool"; and definitely too much authorial prejudice inserted into characters: "'Look what happened to Nopal Valley when they let the oil wells in.
The players are well known to genre fans - the detective with an unflinching devotion to his personal moral code, the tough cookie femme fatale that looks dangerous but actually bleeds, the petite sweet girl next door whose coy attitude hides sharpened claws.
At his best Macdonald uses similes that can give Chandler a run for his money but they are not consistently of a quality that gives Chandler's fiction a melodic grittiness.
Ultimately The Drowning Pool doesn't reinvent the wheel, but uses most elements expertly enough for genre fans to go through the trouble to seek out a copy.
A distressed woman walks into a hard boiled private eye's office. The rest you know and it rattles on in a pleasingly cynical with a heart of gold way. I prefer Hammet and Chandler, but they only wrote so many books so for those like me who are looking for substitutes this delivers.
However, one of the closest contenders is Ross MacDonald.I first read this book when I was in University and I will admit that its brilliance escaped me at the time.
The words slip and slide off the page into your mind and, whilst it does not make me uncontrollably smile like a Chandler, I am filled with an immense satisfaction.The plot seems to get a lot of people.
And we all know how complicated and irrational families can be!
Maude Slocum opens this tale at the doorway to Lew Archer's office.
Slocum's mother-in-law refuses to let the big oil company ruin her land by drilling.
The Slocum's and their daughter live with old Mrs Slocum.
That night old Mrs Slocum turns up drowned at the bottom of the swimming pool.
Suspects are the son and daughter-in-law of course because they stand to gain the most from opening up the land to drilling.
Archer's investigation takes him on a tour of the Slocum family estate, of the underbelly of the neighboring boom town, and of the extravagant lifestyle of the oil company owner.
These Lew Archer books are top notch and this one may be the best of the five or so that I've read in the series so far.
Ross Macdonald has a way of using that fine old hardboiled style like casting an artful spell.
I guess I'm saying this was an "honest" book, like they say all the best ones are.
If you've never read any of the Lew Archer books, I'd recommend you start with this one.
So far as I can tell, it doesn't matter too much if you read them in order of publication.
I actually prefer the writing of MacDonald to Chandler, albeit Marlowe and Archer are not just cut from the same cloth they could possibly have been separated con-joined twins. MacDonald himself can finish the review, because this single paragraph contains all you one needs to know. Excellent. I felt like a lonely cat, an aging tom ridden by obscure rage, looking for torn-ear trouble. I clipped that pitch off short and threw it away. Night streets were my territory, and would be till I rolled in the last gutter.
Great Ross Macdonald, second in the Lew Archer series.
In The Drowning Pool he's still in Chandler mode, though there are hints of what's to come.A beautiful woman, Maude Slocum, walks into Archer's office and asks him to find out who is behind a mysterious letter sent to her alleging that she's two-timing her husband.
Mrs. Slocum is fished out of the pool, and a number of secrets rise to the surface along with her corpse, secrets which will lead to several more deaths before Archer solves the mystery.Macdonald here is playing a variation on a theme, and not a dramatically different variation at that.
Millar has that skill, and he imparts it to his characters.Since I'm comparing Macdonald to Chandler here, I'd like to point out two more differences.
