https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/418209.Despair
This is an iceberg novel, but what's beneath the surface (the book jacket copy) is likely more interesting than the ramblings of our lead, Hermann, who (in the Zweigian conceit of the novel) has written and sent the prose to Nabokov for publication.Nabokov has an interesting line in the introduction (coming some 30 years after he wrote DESPAIR in Russian): "Hermann and Humbert are alike only in the sense that two dragons painted by the same artist at different periods of his life resemble each other.
Wild, wicked, stylish, funny, in only the way Nabokov could write. On every page you sense the fun he's having, and boy, is it infectious.
Little silly kalliope, upon entering the pages of this despairing novel, wonders at her existence.
She lives only through her reading; the only world little kalliope knows is this virtual GoodReads, where many other members of its fleeting population also have their own muses, their own shadows.
But no, rebuts little kalliope, that is a tiresome choice and besides it is not the separation of the ‘one’ from the ‘one’ that she is looking for but from that elusive ‘other’.
– her Muse.With or without lilacs and violets, and certainly without Despair.
But, you’ll probably be able to find much more engaging reads at any corner.
It’s good (enough), and funny (enough) and clever (enough), and then over (but not quite soon enough).Now, for the advice.
Whatever the short lived joy of said beating is, it remains complicated by the bitten ass.
The ass you’ll be unable to sit on right away while trying to read something else.
My Advice Part II: read your own damn To Read list—you know, the one you have an interest in and from which you’ll likely feel greater reward.
Wow. This is the most arrogant, self-aggrandizing, intellectuallysnooty indictment of literary criticism I've ever read.
Wow. This is the most self-flagellating, masochistically interior, intellectually crushing self-indictment I've ever read by an artist.
What a way to illuminate the disconnect between self and perception-of-self by others, of artistic expression v.
But only because I think you would've appreciate the fireworks given that you were such a fancy-britches and all.
You card!But hey, if it makes you feel any better, even your mediocre-in-comparison-to-your-better-books books are better than most books I've read.
More fireworks!
The themes that he returns to so often during the latter part of his career — mirroring, unreliable narrators, unlikable protagonists, mistaken identities, dark humor, botched violence - are here, too, a little more apparent and a little less smooth and adept.As a writer, I was happy to see a lower-level Nabokov - unlike in say, Pale Fire, where it is hard to pinpoint how he is pulling off the literary tricks he pulls off, in Despair, it’s a little easier to look into Nabokov’s mind and see the blueprints he was working with.
The story is interesting, and it does not require as much from the reader as some of his other books do -- indeed, Nabokov writes that the book has a "plain structure and pleasing plot." Pretty much true: Hermann Hermann, a man who seems at first to be relatively sane, meets what he believes to be his double (a Dostoevskyian theme, which he in fact ridicules more than anything), and then concocts a pretty stupid plan that, needless to say, fails.
While I’m sure it is a good book (165,000 GR readers can’t all be wrong), books with pedophiles as main characters don’t usually make it to the top of my TBR list so I was interested in finding another Nabokov book that would give me a taste of this renowned author’s style.
One would expect that a novel named Despair would be depressing book full of gloom and doom, a tale about sad and hopeless people.
This in itself makes Despair a classic work of crime fiction.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
Is not the "perfect murder" as much a work of art, of deliberate purpose and imagination, as the "perfect novel" or the "perfect painting"?To anyone with a passing interest in the masterful Nabokov, his extreme views on literature should be no mystery.
His art is never perfection because while he is a devil for details, he is lost in the greater art of life, which he fails to appreciate.Throughout Nabokov, we see the butterfly, his passion, as a symbol for the complete cycle of artistic creation.
To pervert this belief, to parody his own views on art, Nabokov brings forth Hermann, who sees a beauty in death, in destruction of life (much like Humbert's destruction of Lolita's innocence and life): 
I hate Nabokov.
He's a bleedin' megalomaniac interested in nothing other than proclaiming the invention of paper and ink as an exclusive gift to himself.I take deep breaths of exasperation reading every fourth sentence this guy writes.
What, can he just go on playing with my feelings?
As if he's never gonna call back?
This is his first book.
In the last two pages, he gives you enough shock as to arm you with a knife you would drive through him right after you have finished rethinking the entire book and telling yourself, "Damn!
I'm the one who got fooled."Shame on you, Nabokov.
Re-visit 2016 is the film recommended by Karen.Plotline: The narrator and protagonist of the story, Hermann Karlovich, a Russian of German descent and owner of a chocolate factory, meets a homeless man in the city of Prague, whom he believes is his doppelgänger.
Even though Felix, the supposed doppelgänger, is seemingly unaware of their resemblance, Hermann insists that their likeness is most striking.
Hermann is married to Lydia, a sometimes silly and forgetful wife (according to Hermann) who has a cousin named Ardalion.
After some time, Hermann shares with Felix a plan for both of them to profit off their shared likeness by having Felix briefly pretend to be Hermann.
Thoughts forthcoming; for now, yes! An amazing novel. I have a feeling it will take a while for me to go over it in my head, so stay tuned.
Yeah, I like how Vladimir Nabokov writes but this book just doesn't have the sparkle, the humor or the polished writing of Lolita or Speak, Memory or other books by the author.
Despair not only was a forerunner to Lolita, published in 1955, but it feels like that too.
One can compare Hermann of this novel with Lolita's Humbert Humbert.
More to think about on all sorts of themes, having nothing to do with sex or murder.Christopher Lane does a good job with the narration, even if occasionally when he personifies dubious characters of Russian origin it was practically impossible to hear the lines.
Двойнственост и илюзии Ще запомня тази книга с начинът, по който си играеше с представите ми за двойнственост -когато два обекта, две идеологии, две личности (и т.н.) споделят значителни прилики, но принадлежат към различни социални класи заради името си, опаковката си или някой друг дребен външен признак, какво говори това за света, в който живеем?
Още по-вълнуващо е, че Набоков налага неговият начин да работи с описанията, подигравайки точно това, което аз също ненавиждам - самоцелното им използване.
Извървяването на 140 страници с него в този смисъл едва ли ще понесе на всеки.Страхотна среща с Набоков.
There are times where it becomes too clever and divergent just to showcase Nabokov's writing talent (I feel) which, I don't blame him and, which, provided flashes of utter brilliance.At the beginning of the novel, I felt a more linear narrative would have reined in some of the unwieldy flights of fancy but towards the end I realised that the disjointed (understatement!) narrative is there to begin to confuse and distract your own mental state in parallel with the narrator's.
The twist/s were not unexpected, and I think they are meant to be obvious, but that does not spoil the outcome as by the conclusion you become more absorbed in the narrator's reaction to events rather than the events themselves.
(I think I compare anything with a doppelganger to Poe’s story because that’s where I first learned the word, so maybe this isn't really a drawn out "WW" because I don't remember much about that story actually.) Of course throw in the normal dash of Nabokov exploring the limits of self-hood and the various means of escaping that inexorable prison of consciousness: “I have grown much too used to an outside view of myself” (19).
That reason is probably Nabokov’s mastery of prose, I mean I could read two hundred pages about paint drying if they’re written by VN.I need to throw in something about the real author’s (VN’s) arrogance.
The first part of it was tedious.
I could see Nabokov was a great writer but still, it was tedious.
I struggled through first 80-90 pages and was awarded for my efforts with a brilliant second part of the book.
I was actually sitting on the tube going to work, reading it and muttering to myself "Oh, brilliant, brilliant".Hermann is such a perverse narrator.
One of the very few books when I felt I created a relationship with the narrator.
Don't be misled by first 50 pages - the book actually does have a plot.
One of Nabokov's first forays into English fiction. Many of his favorite tricks are here - literary allusions, intricate and dazzling prose, false identities, unreliable narrators. Pure Nabokov - nothing wrong with that at all.
The discerning reader of my Nabokov reviews will have undoubtedly noticed how they are shelved.
Or was it?To this end, I submit the following excerpt from Messrs Hagar and Van Halen's (Dutch brothers and possibly illegal émigrés) magnum opus “Poundcake:”“Lemme get on, lemme get on, lemme get on some of thatShake it up, bake it up nice, uhLemme get on, lemme get on, lemme get on all thatI so love my baby's poundcake”Need I say more?
As with Nabokov, we mortals can only contemplate the stars and the possible populations on them.*******************************************(psssstt: by the way, this was one of my absolute favorite of the Russian novels.
Nobody writes like Nabokov. Nobody can ape his style, or fake his psychological acuity, both of which are on pyrotechnic display here. Taking us on a winding journey through self-aggrandizing memories and fantasies, Nabokov's pompous and foppish narrator carefully and gradually, but also gleefully and proudly, reveals his plot to fake his own death by killing his double. Though ostensibly the motive is to gain the insurance money, Hermann, the narrator, has deeper and more chilling motives. An amazing and thought-provoking immersion into the nature of identity and character by a master craftsman.
کتاب ناامیدی هفتمین رمان ناباکوف در اصل به زبان روسی نوشته شده بود و خود نویسنده بعدها آنرا به زبان انگلیسی بازنویسی کرد. این کتاب همانند دیگر آثار مطرح نویسنده همچون: لولیتا، آتش کم فروغ و .. ویژگی های خاص و مشترکی دارد. برای مثال راوی این داستان شخصی است که خود را یک نابغه می داند؛ شخصی بزرگ که اندک اندک خود را به عنوان آدمی یا بهتر بگویم هیولایی خودخواه و بیچاره نشان می دهد. SPOILER ALERT!خلاصه داستان: راوی داستان و یا بهتر بگوییم همان قهرمان داستان، شخصی بنام هرمان کارلویچ که شخصی است نجیب
کتاب ناامیدی هفتمین رمان ناباکوف در اصل به زبان روسی نوشته شده بود و خود نویسنده بعدها آنرا به زبان انگلیسی بازنویسی کرد.
در پشت شخصیت هرمان در این رمان و یا هامبرت در لولیتا خود ناباکوف به عنوان هنرمندی حقیقی می ایستد.
برای مثال ناباکوف سعی کرده است که هرمان را بصورت شخصیتی دیوانه و راوی دروغگو و خیالباف نشان دهد، اما همین جزئیات سبب شده است که شخصیتی منسجم را در پس شخصیت چندبعدی اش نشان دهد.همانند کتاب اختراع والس ناباکوف، در اینجا هم ما شخصی را می بینیم که در مرز بین حقیقت و توهم، باور و خیال، غرق شده است.
There are so many *wink* *nudge* moments that if it were anyone but Nabokov I'd backhand them right across the face.Love that Hermann's tale ends on April 1st ;)
I mean I've read books where the plot is secondary, but in this book it feels a bit more like the plot is not only irrelevant but fighting to be included.
It is trying really really hard to get through the sort of weird rambling, I think I am the best thing since well anything talk from the author.
There is a weird tonal thing in this book that it feels like a book that an author translated but wasn't good enough at the second language to translate correctly, but I think it was on purpose, there were a lot of "this sounds better in..." type sentences.
یک کتاب سیاه، روایت امید و ناامیدی یک انسان خودخواه که بقیه ی انسانها به ویژه قشر فقیر و کم درآمد براش چیزی جز بازیچه نیستن.ناامیدی وسوسه های درونی یک ذهن سیاه و آلوده ست که لباسهای شیک میپوشه و پشت مهربانی های حساب شده پنهان میشه.خوندنش خالی از لطف نیست ولی خب مثل اسمش باعث دل چرکین شدن و ناامیدی میشه.
Don't play with yourself.
The spoils of Nabokov's love of language are in fine form in "Despair," complete with the wordplay, metafictive elements, and literary devices -- all exaggerated to an impressive and hilarious extent -- that you'd expect from our literary genius/mad scientist.
"Despair" in a nutshell: at one point, the novel's author -- who never published the novel himself, but merely sent the manuscript to Mr. Nabokov -- weighs the benefits of this or that name for his novel.
"Crime and Pun" is one of the titles he comes up with.
With the amount of Dostoevsky references in Despair you'd think Nabokov was a big fan.
Apparently, he wasn't and made a few amusing "attacks" on one of the most revered Russian writers.
But his sensitive murderers and soulful prostitutes are not to be endured for one moment— by this reader anyway."And a funny sample of a Dostoevsky reference from Despair, on (p154),** "What should I call my book then?
By the end, I still liked Nabokov's Despair but there was a sense of hyperawareness with the narrator's manner of 'writing about his life' and his insanity (arguably), though scantily surprising, appeared condensed and made this a little underwhelming.
Yet another classic example of an unreliable narrator, Nabokov's brilliant novel, Despair, revolves around a megalomanic who plots his own murder.
Indeed, the content of and foreword to Despair make clear that Nabokov has a love and command of language that is unmatched.
That the English version I read was translated by the author himself makes the book even more awe-inspiring, for Despair is truly one of those cases where the rarest, most inspired writing comes out so fluid and flawless that it seems no one person could have written it.
Whatever it may be, Despair is one-of-a-kind and cements Nabokov's genius for me.
Despair is the title the narrator/”author” Hermann gives this book, but despair seems one of many states that are utterly alien to Hermann. A kind of story of a doppelganger evoking Poe’s “William Wilson” (obviously a favorite of Nabokov as Lolita makes allusions to it also) and Conrad’s “Secret Sharer”, and also a parody of that idea, and a parody of a novel. It is the novel that Hermann would write and a plunge into the reckless and unsettling (yet really hilarious) world of his disturbed and disturbing brain. A dark and fun ride.
Intrigue at the Cafe EmigreNobody enjoys despair.
But many will enjoy Despair.
The title, I'm of the suspicion that it is a Nabokovian pun - think of the Bronx newsboy patter, holding his hands out in front of his tattered jacket like proffered goblets and saying "Dis pair!" in describing a passing woman's buxomnesses to a fellow nobody newsboy, think of "Deuce, Pair" in the classic "Picnic, Lightning" sense, think of "Deus Pere" in some sort of reference God the Father in a truncated trinity.
I don't think anybody has figured out which movie it was Nabokov sat blurry in the background.
