https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/550454.Aztec
if a guilty pleasure can elevate itself to the level of transformative epic, and then come plummeting back down to farce and depravity, and then up again, and then down again, and around and around and around...
some enjoyments are guilt-free: the sense of wonder, the lavish details, the description of native civilizations - so many aspects of so many cultures, all so clearly well-researched and engagingly depicted.
it's an indefensible book, a combination of longest boy's adventure ever and a jack-off book of epic proportion.
It turned into a situation where all these women (men aren't allowed to come to showers, don't you know?) were bringing me their favorite books in the entire world, leaving me obligated to read them.So, I worked with this one woman, who in many ways was an average, comfortable mom type.
I’m leaving a lot of options open, still, if you’d like to re-make Boogie Nights.
As some of you may already be aware, I'm not all that keen on marathon reads.Losing a month out of your life for something like Stephen King's Insomnia will do that to you.It's for that reason that after buying Aztec it sat on my shelf for several months before deciding to venture into it.
This review could easily be placed in any of my pages.
Aztec is all of these, and I must warn you, that apart from being a wonderful history lesson (an Aztec recounts his life story to the conquering Spanish officials) , this novel is not for the squeamish or easily offended.
Jennings was one hell of a storyteller:  Raptor  was a thrilling and transgressive post-Roman romp, and  The Journeyer  fleshed out the eastward travels and adventures of Marco Polo with an exotic embellishment, a sexy and spicy pomp; but Aztec was my introduction to his colorful and hot-blooded novels, and remains a fond favorite. Sure, this overlong confession given by a captured Aztec aristocrat to his monastic interlocutors in the aftermath of Great Montezuma's empire being flushed down the
fleshed out the eastward travels and adventures of Marco Polo with an exotic embellishment, a sexy and spicy pomp; but Aztec was my introduction to his colorful and hot-blooded novels, and remains a fond favorite.
*My mom gave me this book just post-puberty, without a clue as to its content.
This book is not for the faint of heart, but it is simply the best single novel that I have ever read.Nothing is superfluous.There is human sacrifice galore as well as graphic (and I mean graphic) violence and sexuality.
However, the drama is top notch and there are times when you must stop reading because you are overwhelmed by the spectacle of the story.I gave this book as an impulse buy to my mother for Christmas one year.
It's the story of the titularly Aztec guy named Mixtli (I guess they were actually called Mexica but somewhere along the way they picked up the name Aztec which derives from their mythological ancestral origin place Aztlan, I picked up like a thousand facts like this from this book and it hurt my brain) from his weird childhood to weird adulthood to weird old age.
He's not a hero or even really an anti-hero...he's just kind of a particularly smart and adventurous guy that likes to travel and do it with people a lot.
This was the first Gary Jennings book I ever read--and I was hooked forever!
Jennings is one of my favorite authors and Aztec remains one of my top 5 all time great books.
When you read a Gary Jennings book, you are transported to the world he writes about.
He was so masterful with his settings and characters, and so knowledgeable of his subjects that for the duration of the book, the reader feels out of place in his own world.
When you finish this book, you'll feel you've lived in the Aztec world, and experienced its heartbreaking downfall.
A world in which the Spanish are the savages and the society they destroyed, the true nobility.
*CONTAINS MINOR SPOILERS*Ok, here is why the book isn't good and why you shouldn't read it.Do not read it if you're actually interested in the Aztecs or if you know about the Aztec culture, because the "so well researched" historical facts are wrong.
And by the way the Aztecs weren't the ancient Greeks or Romans!Seriously, can you imagine if in the year 2400 an author wrote a book about nowadays western world, and what if it took 12 years of "research" to write it, and what if the only thing they came up with was "westerners were all doing cocaine and having sex in clubs"?
Back then, I wanted to write a novel called “The Aztec”.Imagine the depths of my emotion when I found an immensely successful title of the same name by the late Gary Jennings, a brilliant historical novelist.Since then, I’ve re-read the book at least three times, and loaned it to many good friends.
He’s a warrior, a travelling merchant, a diplomat, a leader of a doomed group of settlers and even a historical researcher; and each life stage is explored in loving detail, almost becoming a novel in its own right.Even the most bizarre scenes (e.g. Mixtli puking onto the old whore, or having intercourse with his sister) move the story forward in more than one way, showing Jennings’ superb planning and execution.This brings me to the three grudges that I have with this novel.
Be that as it may, to some degree I can understand the notion of human sacrifice far better than I can understand the actions of the Spanish.
Oddly, I spent a goodly amount of time laughing while reading this...not that any of it was in and of itself particularly funny.
I can honestly say I was more horrified by the Spaniards melting down the gold works of art to make it into ingots and razing Tenochtitlan to the ground than I was by any preceding grisly ceremony of human sacrifice.
This book is a Historical Fiction masterpiece. It’s cruel and raw, adventurous and passionate, at times even perverse, and in the end heart breaking.It is the story of the Aztec civilization and its conquest by the Spaniards.This book has blood in it, cruelty, sexuality, freaks, incest, war, struggle, a lost love, and an unfulfilled one…What more could you ask?
I finally realized, in this massive novel that goes nowhere, that the best analogy for this steaming pile is Forrest Gump.
His daughter being skinned alive as part of a ritual.Essentially, it paints a picture of a culture so bloody and with a complete lack of respect for life that I had a very hard time caring.
I don't know how it made it to the best seller list, because it was boring, bloody, and a burden to read.
The Aztec series is my guilty pleasure. This first book in the series has 900-ish pages of lush, incredibly intricate, dramatic and absorbing detail about Aztec life up to the Conquistadors' arrival. Interspersed with porn. No wonder the Aztecs didn't die out--they worked very diligently to make more Aztecs. Says Gary Jennings. :)
I read this a number of years ago and as I recall, this was a fascinating read and it's just short of being a five-star masterpiece to me.
I have never thought I would actually write the following words, but here goes: this is a case where a Reader's Digest condensed version, taking out about 100 pages of simply unbelievable violence and sex, would have resulted in a 5 star masterpiece.
But with a warning: this book leaves NOTHING to the imagination, and sometimes, as a reader, I just don't want to know EVERY little detail.
One of the most eye opening, intense, and enjoyable books I've ever read.
Recommended to me by my grandmother, a devout conservative catholic, I was almost shocked she'd read such an intense book (go grandma!).
Gary Jennings spent over a decade researching the Aztec culture and created this non-fiction based fictional story about a culture so incredible different from our own, and yet even more cultured in some ways.
Prepare yourself for a journey of intense and bazaar sexual acts, lavish environments, bloody sacrifices, and an opportunity to go beyond your comfort zone and into a different world that's not all that far away.
I'd recommend this book to anyone who like historical fictions, or intense fictions in general.
I read it for the first time seven years ago, and it still is one of the most memorable books I've read.
Jennings' writing is raw and unforgiving; he has an in-your-face style that can make you cringe, feel heavy hearted, and give you an unbelievable adrenaline rush during any given scene.
I'm surprised to see that other readers gave his follow up books to this slightly higher ratings; for me, Aztec was much more engaging than Aztec Autumn and Aztec Blood (although I have yet to read Aztec Rage).
The information comes in the form of the elderly Aztec Mixtli, who, having learned the Spanish language, has agreed to tell his story.
It becomes immediately evident that Mixtli is not your typical hero, but a man with deep personal flaws.
I read somewhere a small anecdote of a man who was rewarded for telling King Motecuzoma the truth.
He spares us nothing, I mean, absolutely nothing.I couldn't name too many strong emotions I did not feel while reading this book, including wonder, dismay, and disgust.
I learned more about Aztec culture in this book than I have in all my time of personal research on this subject.
Such immersion can be horrifying, especially in dealing with cannibalism and sacrifice, but you come away feeling like you have a better understanding of a completely lost and foreign culture.
In other words, Jennings is such a good storyteller, and has so much actual history to back him up, that he needed to be very careful that his dramatics doesn't leave an unfair portrayal of that society.I think if you read this keeping in mind that it's historical FICTION, you can get a good understanding of a society that ritually sacrifices and consumes humans.
As Mixtli dictates the parallel history of his life and the Aztec civilization's rise and fall, Catholic friars record his story for conveyance to King Carlos (Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor).
A guide explains, only half in jest:  “My own theory is that it is because both snakes and women coil tight around any treasures they may hold.” (p.62)Nevertheless, Mixtli does have an interesting life.
After reading Yuri Herrera's SIGNS PRECEDING THE END OF THE WORLD, I became interested in learning more about Aztec mythology.
“The Place Where the Wind Cuts Like a Knife” seems to allude to a ceaseless biting rainfall that assaults the traveler.
Sometimes a book is in your stars, you are fated to read it.
I had this book for years, carted it around the world, but never could get beyond the first page.
Then one day I picked it up and started reading.
It isn't so much the story about Mixtli, it's the completely believable society of the Azteca before, during and just after the Spaniards arrive.
It is a huge story and needs all 1000+ pages to do justice.
How that society fell from power is a fascinating story.
8 months later .
At over 1,000 pages this book was a marathon, and I'm glad to be done with it.
I read it in hundred page spurts and sometimes wouldn't touch it for a month or so, so that's why it took so long.
The book also does tell a good story and follows it's protagonist through ups and downs and fascinating journeys that will keep you wanting to know what comes.
I'd say if you're interested in this History the book is well worth your time.
If not, you still may be interested in the story it tells as well.
Siempre he sostenido que los libros son los mejores maestros a los que uno puede aspirar en el transcurso de una vida. Al finalizar una lectura de ese estilo, no debemos guardar el libro y dejar que el polvo del olvido se asiente en las palabras que nos ha dicho. Todo lo contrario, hay que tenerlo siempre a mano y recurrir a él, con humildad y reverencia, para hallar en esas conocidas páginas el consejo que hemos olvidado. No me sale otra reseña de este libro. Una belleza recomendable.
This was definitely the trashiest 1000+ pages I have ever read.I got the distinct impression that before sitting down to write the book, Jennings made a list of all the taboo topics, assorted acts of violence, and sexual perversions he could think of and said, "OK, we're gonna get all these into the book, somehow." And he did.The book is framed as the story of the life of Mixtli, an aged member of the Mexica tribe, which he tells to the Spanish Inquisition, on the order of the King of Spain.
Qué libro tan bueno!, es una historia bien contada, con personajes creíbles y una visión interesante de ese mundo que se perdió.
No sé que tan cerca está de la realidad histórica, pero después de leer la novela, dejándome llevar de la mano de Jennings, quiero creer que la realidad fue muy parecida a como él la describe.
Otro aspecto que me llamó la atención fue la forma como caracteriza a los personajes, no parecen hombres del siglo XX ubicados en el siglo XVI, no, estos personajes son diferentes, su forma de pensar, su visión del mundo es otra.
Gennings hizo mucha investigacón antes de escribir. Es agradable ver el mundo azteca de nuevo con sus costumbres, olores y sabores. Gennings como de costumbre se explaya en descripciones detalladas de escenas de un contenido francamente erótico. Tambien son prolíficas sus descripciones de crueldad y ritos sangrientos. No apto para estómagos sensibles.
Apasioante y cautivadora historia de los aztecas antes y durante la llegada de los españoles narrada en forma de novela historica desde la visión de un indígena llamado Mixtli.
Un must para los amantes de este genero.El autor del libro tardo 7 años en escribir el libro, y a traves de su relato nos damos cuenta lo rica y magnifica que era la cultura Mexica antes de la conquista espiritual y cultural, al final, si eres Mexicano sentirás un profundo orgullo por tus raíces, debido a que las culturas prehispanicas poseeían un enorme sentido religioso, cultural y militar.
Del libro podemos darnos cuenta de donde surgen nuestros mas arraigados defectos y complejos como Nación.
Culturally biased and Eurocentric, but still I found it worth the read, simply because of the academic richness of Nahuatl phrases and concepts. Jennings writes a good plot and characters, but lacks the cultural insight, and steeps it in his own subjective sexism and racism.
Gary Jennings, autor reconhecido em todo o mundo como um dos melhores autores do género romance histórico, era um homem muito erudito que levava a cabo intensas e rigorosas pesquisas antes de escrever os seus livros.Falecido em 1999, Jennings deixou ao mundo um conjunto de obras aclamadas pela crítica, entre as quais “Asteca” que comporta as obras, em Portugal, “Orgulho Asteca” e “Sangue Asteca”, dois volumes.Fascinado pelos Astecas, Gary viveu durante 12 anos no México.
And then come tales from the eastern coasts of giant, floating houses with wings on the sea, and of the strange, bearded men they disgorge ...The book is structured as a memoir/interrogation -- an old Mixtli, sometime around the year 1540, is relating his life story (and, not incidentally, the history of his people) to Franciscan friars who are sending his memoirs piecemeal to the King (each section prefaced by an increasingly distraught letter imploring the King to let them stop listening to this garrulous savage's tales of his disgusting exploits).
This tome took me longer to finish than I had thought it would (although having a 3-month old baby at home, as well as my 3-year old son is probably to blame).
However, I quite enjoyed this read.
It's been on my TBR pile for about 15 years or so.
When I began to see that these events did occur in real life, the book took on a whole new meaning.
I find it super interesting.I really enjoyed Mixtil's narrative, especially his humor when talking with the priests.
I will Aztec Autumn after I take a day or two to digest this book as a whole.
