https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76937.The_Disappearing_Floor
This story was so hokie that only a kid could enjoy it, but since I was a kid when I read it, I did.
This is such an amazing book! The cover shows how exciting and spooky it is! Would recommend to any mystery lovers!
The edition I read was as old as dirt...but it was still great fun!
author: Franklin W Dixondate published: 1940genre: mystery This story all started with the Hardy boys driving in a car venturing into the dark.
I think audiences with a liking of crime, investigation, a little bit of brutal scenes, and a lot of nail biting scenes where the case in the mystery can go either way.
I have read a lot of books from this author and he has never failed in writing a good mystery.
This quote gave me more interest in the story because I was assuming the same thing that the Hardy boys were when they said that.
Dixon is a book about three boys that are searching for a group of bank robbers that have stolen a lot of money.
I liked all of the adventures that the boy's went on throughout the story because the stories were interesting and sound fun to experience.
Also, a lot of the things that happened in the book were confusing.
I would recommend this book to people who like crime solving because this book has a lot to do with crime and detectives.
I would also recommend this to people who like adventuring because they are always on an adventure in the book.
The book I read was called The Disappearing Floor by Franklin W.
The mastermind throughout this book does more than one jewel theft/robbery because he didn’t get caught the first time.
When the Hardy boys go to the masterminds house for the last time in the book.
The Hardy boys figure out a lot of things about the house that explains a lot about the mysteries.
Eventually they caught them, so the hardy boys yet solved another mystery.This book is one of the best books I have ever read.
My favorite part of the book was when they finally caught the mastermind and his henchmen.
Generally regarded as the worst of the original text "canon" volumes (books 1-40) it's a definite oddity. Written by fill-in author John Button instead of original series author Leslie McFarlane, it's more than a little far-fetched in terms of plot and weak on character development. Chet is ill-used and outside of Callie and Iola's brief appearance, none of the other chums are present. There would be better stories to follow in the series, but rock bottom had to be hit somewhere and in the original era, it was here.
Wow, this was bad. It felt like my 7 year old came up with this plot, and an older teen just started writing it all down. "Nope, not at 200 pages yet. What else happened?" "Um, tigers." It was bad. Everyone was out of character and made weird decisions.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This one... uh, it wasn't good. It was weird. It was pretty bad really. Didn't even feel like a Hardy Boys book at some parts. Very strange.
This is the first Hardy Boys Mystery that I have read. For a quick, simple read, it was amusing and captivating, for what it was. A fun little day read.
Secret tunnels and futuristic stun-guns! The Hardys prevail, of course.
amazing
Reread of a childhood favorite.

in the series I have Disappearing Floor is number 5This book is over the top, but thats the point. It's an adventure for young boys (and girls) to read under the sheets by torchlight, when parents have told you to turn the light off! But you just have to know what happens next and catch the bad guys. Car chases, fist fights, stolen treasure, explosions! Its power to childen and a reminder to adults just how much fun being a kid can be.
My favorite character is Joe because he is smart,brave,funny,and cute.
I will reccomend this book to other students because it was funny,made you want to keep reading, and for people who like mysteries.
I think the author wrote this book because he wanted to intertain kids,make a funny book,make a great book.
After reading the book I felt happy, and wished there was more to the book though.
A part in the book disappointed me was when when Joe fell unconsuious from some kind of gun that knocks you out.
Hope you read it and enjoy it like I did.
I first got into the Hardy Boys books in the second grade or so.
I came across my old box o' books and decided to give one a a read.
The plot is about a jewel thief, pursued of course by hero brothers Frank and Joe Hardy.
I had forgotten how violent these books are.
Friends are "chums", a car is a "jalopy", and I don't know is "search me".Though designed for a much younger audience, the book kept me interested.
Read it yourself to find out the double meaning of the title, and see if Frank and Joe can crack the case!
Oh my, I can't even begin to tell you what's wrong with this book.
Sci-Fi in a non-Sci-Fi book?
I didn't have the heart to go any lower.The Hardy Boys are going camping when they meet some rough men in the woods and in a cave.
Then they meet their famous private detective father, Fenton Hardy, in the woods.
Even when they go to Erie and then hop a plane for Columbia 2 hours away, they meet the same villains in the woods.
The title is intriguing but the so-called disappearing floor doesn't figure into it until nearly the end of the book.
And was it really disappearing?

I was very captivated while reading this mystery. With every page the storyline kept unfolding revealing new clues to solving this elaborate mystery. In this mystery Frank and Joe's best friend Chet stumbles upon a mysterious old house that holds many secrets, and of course it intrigues the Hardy's so they feel compelled to solve the mystery. I really enjoyed this book. It is definitely one of my favorites in the series. I think that any fan could easily enjoy reading "The Disappearing Floor" as much as I did!
I think this is another one of those Hardy Boys books that I would think is so interesting. It's the time where they have to track down a jewel thief on the loose and they encounter mysterious elements along the way. Talk about a big situation. I would recommend it if you like the Hardy Boys' adventures. So now that I'm done, I'll read one of the 2 new Hardy Boys book that I wished for on my birthday.
This was a pretty good book. It was a good adventure book. they only bad thing was that this story had to many things going on and the author just switched in the middle of a chapter to another view. I would recomend this book to 5 and 6 graders. it was to easy of a read for a 7 grader. the exciting parts were when the boys try to find this floor thats only ther...... sometimes. folow the boys on ther quest to find the floor.
Not the best writing, these book series, but somehow I love them all the same. There is something comforting and yet exciting in the Hardy's adventures. This particular one had plenty of fun gadgets and a fairly neatly tied up storyline. The kids and I have fun with each of these books and will continue through the series.
This book is a hoot; found it when cleaning my son's old room. We bought it at a library sale 20 years ago. It has the brothers fighting a tiger while armed with a club! It also has ghosts, a mad scientist and secrets galore.
WsuksuqAh ah hahaha anyways Ganga us y st Bauhaus sugar hahaha hauay Nanak Isuzu is y gab hahaha abuse Havre at :) after Chatsworth the top of my friends th a b there were two years ago when I was just wondering if we can go to bedUahhagwhsvgstyauahgast whsygshsiaiis
I am reviewing this book out of all the other ones in the series because I think it was exceptionally good. I do not want to give away the plot, but this one is just really interesting, and very fun. Enjoy!
It was so great! I TOTALLY like the parts when Joe falls into the pit.
The first ever novel that I read. This was back when I was 10. Thought it was the bee's knees.
the s a secret in the house and its up to the hardys to uncover what happened in a murder in this house along with its secrets
