https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203968.The_Social_Animal
Aronson's life work is, as he concludes the book, understanding "how we think, how we behave, what makes us aggressive, and what makes us loving." So many books peck around the edges of that topic; this book, now in its 13th edition, is the sum total Aronson's life work as a social psychologist dedicated to providing scientific answers in that field.It's certainly a slow read, as it's very nearly a textbook; there's some repetition, and there are likely topical and perhaps scientific differences between editions.
That is how long Aronson has worked on this book.) However, even with those extremely minor caveats, this woefully under-read book painstakingly encapsulates so much of what makes us human, good and bad, and nearly all of it is based on landmark scientific research from all over the world.
Amazing book, full of lessons and wisdom which literally makes you a more Cute and effective person in life.
هذا الكتاب يعتبر بحق مقدمة نافعة و متقنة في مجال علم النفس الاجتماعي. فصوله الثلاث الأولى أهم في موضوعاتها وأكثر إتقانا في عرضها من الأخيرة. يمتاز الكتاب بسلاسة الأسلوب، وترتيب الأفكار. ويعيبه طول فصوله وإسهابه في مواطن لا تحتاج إلى الإسهاب والإطالة ويمكن فيها الاستغناء بذكر تجربة أو اثنتين والتركيز على النتائج. وينقصه الجداول والملخصات في الهوامش فهي لو أضيفت ستعطيه إفادة وتميزا وفائدة أكبر.
For every subject, there is a Bible textbook. This has to be the one for Social Psychology.
When I was in college, I first got interested in social psychology because it dealt with some of the most exciting aspects of being human: love, hate, prejudice, aggression, altruism, social influence, conformity, and the like.
At that time, I didn’t care a great deal about how this impressive body of knowledge came into existence.
And a whole new world opened up for me—the world of scientific social psychology.
I learned how to ask important questions and do the experiments to find the answers to those questions—contributing, in my own small way, to the body of knowledge that I had read about as a student.
As valid a goal as that might be, Elliot Aronson's approach leaves the reader with a book that only provides examples and defines barely any terms or theories.
Terms actually used in the discipline with which the reader might not be familiar are not even briefly defined (i.e. Prejudiced Personality Theory).Within the text itself, social psychology theories are still only briefly introduced and not expanded upon.
Ultimately, this book is at best a supplemental text but should not be relied upon to provide any significant understanding of social psychology.
A great reference for avid social psychology readers. It goes through all main concepts in the field in a simple yet enriching content.
Social Psychology is a really captivating topic, and as a primer this book was great.
The author sure seems to know what he is writing about, giving examples and case studies from findings.
But along with that his writing is captivating and drew me to read more and become more curious on the matter he was writing.
I am keen on knowing more about the subject and applications of it.
Strongly recommend this book, can't think of a reason how it cannot impact anybody and everybody.
We all are social animals and need to figure out how and why we do what we do.
Nice book about social psychology and behaviours. How good/bad stereotypes are created. It explains lot about how we develop good/bad attitude towards certain groups. Why people conform to a ideology . In what situation people are most/least influenced. Basically its a toolbox to understand individual and group interactions. Almost every statement made by author is scientifically validated by experiments.
لو تقييم الكتاب دا من 100 هاديله 100 ... الكتاب دا احسن كتاب قريته في حياتي ... اولا هو أحد الأسباب في أني أقرر اتخصصص سيكولوجي ... فهمني حاجات كتير جدا عن نفسي وعن المجتمع اللي انا عايش فيه ... من خلاله قدرت أفسر تصرفات ناس كتير وليه بيعملوها ... أنا بقرأ في الكتاب من خمس شهور مش عشان مش عارف اخلصه لكن عشان كل ما اقرأ جزء لازم أقف وأفكر فيه وأهضمه من روعته وفايدته ...انا واخد أجزاء من الكتاب عامله 46 صفحة ... قررت أشتر يالكتاب دا هدية لنفسي في عيدميلادي الجاي
I had to read this book for my Social Psychology class and it was (quite possibly) the only "text" book I ever actually read. It was a fascinating merging of psychology in a social context. The subject is immediately applicable to real life.
It's a bit dated now, but this is the book that pretty much taught me everything I wanted to know about people and social psychology when I signed up to do my BA. The discussion of Bystander Syndrome absolutely blew my mind at the time. Well worth a read.
This is an awesome book about social influences that helps explain why people behave the way they do in different situations.
The fundamental philosophy of The Social Animal is that human behaviors, belief, and attitude do not reflect dispositional qualities in individuals because it is the variables in the situations that produce behaviors, belief, and attitude.
I could not help reflecting on my own experience when the chapters touched on common things such as cognitive dissonance, self-justification, human aggression, or prejudice.
They give a sense of hope when we get to explore how to handle our human natures and allow us to have stronger believes in those natures’ capability to improve our lives.
i frequently had ideas aggressively jumping through my head when thinking of the many way the concepts in the book can be applied in real life to improve our lives, professions, community and education.the author puts concepts in the right order and refers scientific findings back to real-world examples which i found very engaging.i also deeply appreciate the scholarly accuracy of the author in his conclusions and discussions of experiments where i often made many errors in my conclusions only to find prof.
Aronson correct my mistake in the next few lines down the pagei definitely plan to read it again and will also buy prof.
Insightful and thought-provoking, covering a broad range of fascinating human behavior topics.
such great book... while you're reading it you will notice that the writer explains every possibility you might think of..... it is like he knows how you're thinking....
So who reads this book and says it is good?
Probably the same people who like Sex at Dawn I guess.Pro:This book has a lot of experiments in it.
And every time he writes about black people or women he totally abolishes all science and starts talking about affirmative action and whatnot.
Very biased book.As a book on social science it is just not good.
And the at times terrible science makes this a bad read for anyone interested in social psychology.
What the hell is wrong with all these books with terrible social science in them?
I just want to read good science, nothing else.
I’ve finally finished “the social animal”!I stumbled upon this book over a year ago and started reading it but stopped after a 100 pages or so because I felt lost and thought that taking notes would be much better.
The book included scientific experiments which were very interesting, and now I can say I learned many things about myself and those around me.
I took notes while reading “the social animal” which filled 30 dense pages so that I can always come back to them later and reach a better understanding of human conduct and behaviour.
Plug this book in your brain(As in PC like plugging) and you will not hate anyone ,you will not be angry with anyone or anything ,sound inhuman but this what the book implies !! every action ,every thought and every word has a plausible reason behind them ,once we know it we see things in a different lens .I have never read a glossary in a book before (who does!) ,here i did it !! Great book from first page to the last one.
Excellent. It's an encyclopedia for modern psychology. Covering a very wide range of experiences. I really really enjoy it. When I finished the book, I felt like I don't need to read anything anymore about Social Psychology! I was also amazed by the scientific approach to do experiments in social psychology. Chapeau-bas!
This book covers so much, and it's a huge wake up to the human nature and how we are inclined to do good and awful things. I love the emphasis on eliminating prejudice. There is also a great chapter, 'Liking, loving, and interpersonal sensitivity', that is applicable to anyone in a relationship. I guess this is my inspiration to study sociology and psychology in university :)
I read the 10th Edition last year at school and I have to say that I really enjoyed it. Its a LOT of information, but its well worth the read to see past the surface of the world we live in to get to the real reason we are the way we are, and how the media, society, and life in general molds us.
Social Animal is an insightful book about social psychology, human nature topics explained deeply. Loved it!
Human/social psychology is so complicated that staying brutally honest to ourselves is utmost important and difficult
Mind=Blown
An incredible analysis of the social psychology we all fall into. I would highly recommend this book to anyone hoping to better understand why we are the way we are.
An entertaining peek into the age old social aspects of human beings. I also love Aronson's language. He makes scientific non-fiction just as amusing and easy to read as Judy Blume.
The Social Animal takes a sledge hammer to the idea of men as rational beings making decisions on objective information.
Even basic concepts like our long-term memories are challenged and proven to be highly vulnerable to extreme manipulation by ourselves (unconsciously) or others.
This is the type of stuff it should be taught in high school to help students to prepare better for the world.
The Kitchen SinkI enjoy a bit of sociology and as a mid level manager hope that my reading in leadership and management has helped me be a better manager.
However, this collection and style of writing is the best I have yet read.
It covers all the studies I have been exposed to in other readings and yet peppered in is the author thoughts and examples from current events.
I enjoyed the mix.
I better understand myself and groups from this material and hopefully can be provide more positive interactions to others.
Thank you for the book and the many revisions.
The Social Animal by Elliot Aronson it's like a guide for becoming a better communicator. The only reason I gave it 4 of out 5 stars is because the writing style is mostly rigid. Quite understandable to be honest, the writer is a Harvard graduate. It's definitely something you must read if you're interested in understanding how people operate. Read the full review here: https://corehustle.com/the-social-ani...
