https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17478.Five_Go_to_Smuggler_s_Top
These famous five books give me nostalgia!
This is generally an unfailing indicator of villainy!The wider conflict concerns the local smuggler who uses the marshes, and rather unbelievably ends up kidnapping Uncle Quentin in some implausible plan to thwart the draining.The conflict I recall strongly from my reading as a child was between the five and the deaf manservant Block who they suspect might be able to hear, and who is out to expose Timmy who has been hiding in the house's secret passages in order that Mr Lenoir not know he was in the house.Not one of my favourites in the series.
Smuggler’s Top is a huge house straight out of history with hidden passages behind panels and pits under seemingly ordinary floors.....all mysteriously ensconced on a small island surrounded by marshes and swirling mists.
The house located atop a hill,riddled with secret passages……the sleepy town with cobbled streets and diamond-pane windows……the catacombs, where people could wander for days and get lost forever……the squelching mud of the marshes, which was almost a live, breathing thing.....all collectively added to the aura that was Smuggler’s Top. Enid Blyton effectively created a world that I could picture with startling clarity even after so many years.
From the windswept beauty of Kirrin Island to the sinister charm of Castaway Hill...each had it’s own appeal.
It turns out that this chap is extremely grumpy and lives at the top of an island (which I'm pretty sure is a thinly disguised St. Michael's Mount, complete with a causeway and everything) that turns out to be honeycombed with secret smugglers' tunnels.
- Bizarrely, this is the only book in the Famous Five series (which is twenty two books long) that doesn't have an unabridged version available on Audible.
The book is on Audible, but only in the dreaded abridged format.
I mean, seriously, who wants to read an abridged version of a book?
It was hard to find a copy originally, and I had to make do with a more modern publication than some of the others I own.What starts off as a lovely easter holidays at Kirrin soon turns into adventure, with a large tree hitting the house making it impossible for the children to stay there.
It's a good thing too, because Mr Lenoir doesn't like dogs, and the children have to hide Timmy during the day.Smugglers, mystery and intrigue are the order of the day, culminating in the kidnapping of Uncle Quentin and Sooty beneath the catacombs of the house.
These books are amazing 💕 5🌟
Mir gefiel besonders der Schulkamerad von Julian und Dick, der sprach immer so weise und behutsam. Auch die Problematik, dass der Vater keine Hunde mag und deswegen kreativ stets Timmy versteckt werden musste, war was Neues. Leider ist das Ende aber sehr dramatisch und eine Spur zu viel. [10.10.2018]
Hay una casa en medio de un pantano, un contrabandista vocacional y un perro que da la pata como un humano. No había leído nada de Los cinco, y estoy contentísimo de haber empezado.
This sounds just like the sort of books we should be encouraging children (who nowadays are potential couch/computer potatoes) to read.
"What a funny little creature!" says one of the boys when he finds a lost child with a brown face in the snow.) What?Google "Enid Blyton racism" and you find lots of articles.
But there is a plethora of other options - books which are not contentious in this way, where the attitudes shown are far less questionable and socially damaging.Who reads Enid Blyton nowadays?
I doubt very much whether many of today's children choose to read about the Famous Five.
Nostalgia at it's best. Brilliant stories.
... reading with my 9 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. I thought it was time to show them to her.I was right! She loved this book so much that we're starting with a new one tonight. In her own words - she's addicted :)
Releitura de uma obra juvenil, à procura da razão de ser da perda de popularidade de Enid Blyton junto das gerações mais jovens.A receita do sucesso envolvia invariavelmente a aventura e o combate ao crime romântico em lugares misteriosos: túneis esquecidos, faróis, passagens secretas...O crime romântico desapareceu e a corrupção, o tráfico de estupefacientes, a pedofilia, o assédio sexual e a violência doméstica não possuem o mesmo poder de atracção do contrabando, da espionagem e do roubo de jóias que marcavam os livros de Enid Blyton.
O fascínio dos lugares misteriosos permanece, mas a sua presença no campo da acção literária transferiu-se para o universo da magia.
Daí o sucesso de Harry Potter ou das infinitas sagas de vampiros.
O cinema de efeitos especiais não deve ter sido indiferente a esta mudança.
5 starsAdventures always come to the Adventurous-Enid Blyton The quote from this book sums up the whole series!(view spoiler)[-Mr.Barling is a smuggler.-Block,who pretends to be a total deaf is appointed at Mr.Lenoir's house by Barling to spy on his deals with Uncle Quentin.-Smugglers top in Castaway has a lot of secret passages, and the five had a horrid lot of adventures there.-*See the last three chapter(the whole plot is summarized there)* (hide spoiler)]I was thrilled the whole book and Ms. Blyton managed to keep me on the edge of seat during the last three chapters! :)
Smuggler's Top was the first book that i had read of Famous Five series which led me to search and scourge and acquire the entire collection!I had loved the book a lot. I still remember the characters quite perfectly. A gripping Plot, super suspense and witty Kids made sure i spent the best summer vacation getting engrossed in them throughout the day!This possibly was the very first of the Novel's that i had read and fuelled in bringing more to my library!
Uncle Quentin quickly motors the four (plus Timmy!) off to Smuggler's Top!Smuggler's Top is a queer house with a lot of queer things happening in it, but luckily the four chums (plus Timmy!) have a simply ripping holls playing hands of Slap-Down Patience while devouring plenty of hot cocoa, steaming cups of delicious creamy coffee, plenty of jammy buns, hot soup, big and crunchy biscuits, some more jolly good soup, ginger buns hot from the oven, thick and delicious slices of heavenly fruit cake, delicious steamed puddings, chocolate cake, and more top-notch jammy buns!
Four children and their dog have gone to stay with their Uncle’s friend, only to discover mysterious goings on during their stay.
The characters created are realistic and keeps the reader in suspense on who is the suspect who is helping the smuggler’s.
The character Block was a particular favourite as the relationship with the children creates a tension and suspicion.The sequence of events kept the reader engaged.
The intensity also helped towards this, particularly the kidnapping of Uncle Quentin and Sooty created a sense of urgency and danger to the mystery.
This book can be used I the classroom for guided reading sessions as well as for individual reading.
If nothing else it is a book which will awaken young people's desire for adventure and get them away from the game consoles which tie them into their sofas.I believe this book should be on the bookshelf of every classroom as it is a very good read.
In PSHE / Citizenship, this book can be drawn on to teach children about friendship and caring about what goes on in your community.
A must read!
It is a good book. I liked it because there is so much adventure. I like the way Timmy always stays on guard no matter what happens. Even though he is separated from Georgina, (George) he still helps Uncle Quentin as though he is his Master.
This was a dramatized audiobook, short and enjoyable, even for an adult - or at least an immature one, as in my case. As a kid, I would've loved it. Lots of unsupervised adventure - what kid doesn't like that?
Getting too awful, couldn't finish.
I liked it. Not so difficult to guess the villain but still quite enjoyable.
Kenetulan Pierre juga tidak keberatan, karena pada dasarnya si Hangus juga merupakan anak yang supel, ceria, ramah, bahkan sedikit jahil.Ternyata, nama Sarang Penyelundup bukan hanya nama secara harfiah saja, pada kenyataannya, dahulu di tempat tersebut banyak penyelundup yang berkeliaran.
Ada yang menuju ke arah kota, ke arah rawa-rawa, bahkan lorong yang menghubungkan bagian-bagian rumah tersebut di bawah tanah!Sebelumnya anak-anak berpendapat bahwa liburan mereka kali ini akan datar-datar saja, tanpa petualangan apa-apa.
Anak-anak pun mulai mengendus kehadiran dan tanda-tanda adanya penyelundup tersebut, sampai akhirnya nyawa anak-anak pun terancam karena para penyelundup itu tidak main-main terhadap siapapun yang menghalangi mereka.Yup, kali ini Lima Sekawan bertualang jauh dari Kirrin, akhirnya.
Smugglers, trusting parents, tunnels, baddies with appropriate names such as ‘Block’… this is what childhood is all about.
For an adult this is hardly demanding reading; but it does bring back happy childhood memories of the picnics we ate (an awful lot of hard-boiled eggs … which nowadays might be viewed as a cholesterol risk!) and the games of adventure and tremendous imagination we used to play outdoors after reading books such as those in the Famous Five series.
I don’t care how good computer-generated graphics get; they’ll never possess the imaginative, immersive power of the complex mouldy pong which wreathes around damp castles; or the heart-stopping feeling of slipping feet attempting to climb a rope ladder.
childhood rating * * * *actual rating * *I will allow my childhood rating to stand,but it is a far cry from how I feel about these books now.
Although today's generations of couch potato kids could benefit from reading about the outdoor activities of our famous friends (in a sense it may motivate them to get of the damn couch and live a little), negative issues outweigh the positive message.
What stuck with me through this re-read: racism, sexism, gender issues, snobism, pretentiousness, patronizing, bad parenting..
Now I doubt there's a kid out there feeling the same.
Aha!
The first adventure away from Kirrin.
By now the "George is/could be separated from Timmy" plot is getting a little old, as is the Timmy-ex-machina.
It's fun story if you haven't read the others recently, I suppose, and there's more secret passageways and Uncle Quentin getting into trouble...
It's more of the same, of course: nostalgia for the simplicity of childhood, plus children knowing better than adults, plus mysteries and secret passageways and at the end a friendly policeman coming along and admiring the Five's work.
And everybody loves Timmy (unless they're a bad guy).I think I'm going to take a break from these books now!
Wow, what an adventure! Goodness, when Five Go To Smugglers Top they really go to Smugglers Top! The usual gang plus plenty of new friends and some jolly awful wrong 'uns! I had this book read to me...with all the glorious voices!!!
The famous five are once again in the middle of an action packed adventure. Old tunnels and secret staircases maybe a good play area but it is also a good hideaway for smugglers....
Really needed the comfort of childhood and this was the perfect fit. Such a lovely story and reading it feels very much like a warm bath after a long day.
Fancied a touch of nostalgia and wasn't disappointed. Still enjoyed it 60+ years on.
Uncle Quentin is to follow on in a few days' time after the building works have got under way.In the meantime, the children discover that they are staying in what is, quite frankly, a very strange house, located in a remote hill town accessed by one narrow road crossing the atmospheric and rather sinister marshlands where sea frets can roll in at a moment's notice.
(view spoiler)[ I can't imagine many people shrugging their shoulders, after hearing that their step son and house guest had disappeared mysteriously and without trace in the middle of the night, deciding to wait until the next day to contact the police and then deciding to wait even longer because they wanted to speak to their friend who was the Police Inspector (no-one else will do).
