https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310258.The_Snowy_Day
The colours and patterns in this book are beautiful, the simple concept of adventuring in the snow and returning to a loving home makes a great read for young children who can share the joy and the magic with Peter.
My daughter commented 'poor tree' when Peter smacks the tree with stick, personally if I am reading/talking to small children I am careful about the language I use and this could more positively be decribed as Peter tapping the snow from the tree, but minor point, very lovely story of a snowy day.
This was a really cute, simple story that my students enjoyed :)
Here are the things I discovered about Mr. H, my grandson with this book. He wants to ski...He's four years old and has never seen anyone ski in real life. Also, Mr. H is hoping for "lots and lots" of snow this winter...he doesn't have to shovel. And last, he loves this book and Peter is his new friend.  Now, if you will excuse us, Mr. H has discovered the joy of making footprints in the play dough...while standing on the table. 😊
Until The Snowy Day (published in 1963), American children's books featured white children as the heroes (if you know of one that didn't, I'd love to hear about it).
In the biography on his website, Ezra Jack Keats says:Then began an experience that turned my life around—working on a book with a black kid as hero.
Illustrations that looked like a consistent whole in the published book turned out to be separate pieces of paper fit and intricately glued together.
This year around the holiday season there were Snowy Day stamps, and every card we got that had one, my kid got all excited.
"Nowy Day!" he would yell.There's a statue of Peter and his dog, by the way, at a quirky little playground in a corner of Brooklyn's Prospect Park.
So anyway it finally snows and we're all excited, right?
And we bundle him all up and we take him outside for his very first snowy day, and he's like..."Dirty," he says.
I wanted to read something about winter and snow.
The artwork is quiet and muted like snow.
It is simple and really helps set the tone of the story.
It is simply told which again sets the tone perfectly.As we read this book, the kids would say, "I've done that", or "we made snow angels this years" or "We didn't have enough snow this year to make our own snowman".
They enjoyed it.I like this little winter story that reminds me of the joys of snow as a kid.
It's about seeing where you walk in the snow and snow angels and building snow men.
Ezra Jack Keats makes this story simple yet powerful since the story details the adventures that Peter has on his snow day in such a vivid way, especially the passage where it mentions how Peter tries to make tracks in the snow with his feet, which I thought was very inventive since I have never read a picture book that contains a phrase where children track their feet in the snow to get a feeling of the snow.“The Snowy Day” is a perfect book for children who also enjoy the beauty of a snowy day and many children will definitely enjoy this book for many years.

For The Snowy Day is simply and wonderfully the delightful story of one small and eponymous young boy having fun in the snow, enjoying his winter playtime outside and that he happens to be African American is just a simple fact of life (and I for one in fact and indeed also massively do applaud Ezra Jack Keats in so far that young Peter's ethnicity is basically and naturally shown and depicted in The Snowy Day, but is NEVER in any way belaboured or made much of, as Peter really is just a little boy having fun, and he could be any little boy, in fact he could be any little child, with his ethnicity and indeed if one were to go even further, also his gender being of no real significance whatsoever).
I like to imagine this book from the boy's parents' perspective.
"But when he woke up, the snow was still there, and new snow was falling!"..and dad is outside swearing as he tries to shovel out his snowed-in car so he can go to work.
Meanwhile, mom has slipped and fallen on the puddle of water left when the snowball the idiot child tried to carry inside in his pocket melted.
She calls and calls for help, but her son doesn't hear her because he is outside making snow angels and pathetic two-segmented snowmen who don't even have noses (NO CARROT!
We picked a variety of different books to read later, one of which was “The Snowy Day,” by Ezra Jack Keats.
In the book, a little boy, Peter, dons an orange jump suit and plays in the snow.
He makes snowmen, snow angels, and marvels at the nature around him.
Peter was the star of this book.
I dreamt of being like Peter, playing in large snowdrifts, and making snowmen like the little kids in the Frosty cartoon.
Peter and I went on many adventures together.This small picture book unlocked dreams and visions that I never knew I had.
There's a reason this book is a classic, Keats was able to really listen to the phrase "less is more" when he created this perfect little kids book.
The pictures are warm and inviting, they directly interact with the text, making each page a fun adventure playing in the winter.
I think Keats just perfectly captures the wonder kids feel when going out to play in winter- I think a lot of adults could take a note from this book as well and have a little more fun when winter rolls around.
The minimalist art really adds to this story of discovery. Will take you back to a time when the world was filled with endless possibilities.
This is a story of what a young child does on a snowy day.
Perhaps for children growing up in the 60’s and 70’s it was a fine book to read.
We used to have huge snowstorms and many snow days from school when I was young.
Building snowmen, making snow angels, sliding down hills, having huge snowball fights and coming home from the park frozen like a popsicle was all fine and dandy but do young children of the 21st century really do that anymore?
and I live in Canada.This is certainly not my top choice for a children’s story but as long as kids want to read it, I wouldn’t discourage parents/teachers from selecting this book.
Lovely little book I picked up on impulse. Beautiful collages of Peter having fun in the snow. Simple, sweet story of a young child on a winter's day.
I loved this book when I was a wee one. It made me think a snowy day is magical. :D
Well, simply because this book, being written in the POV of the author's neighborhood, features the first modern African-American protagonist in children's literature.
Mr. Keats' work always stood out to me and my classmates and we would read the majority of them in time.
It was very unique, artistically and with me and my peers being majority African-American, had characters we could relate to and that made the world look more natural to us than it actually was.
Most of the characters in EJK work were Black, Brown, and let's say off-White (not many Anglo-Saxons in Brooklyn at the time the book was written).
I haven't read this to my niece and nephew, and I don't know if I ever will.
My mom read this to me when I was a kid, and I *love* this book.
I love Peter's little red suit, I love the colors and illustrations in this book, I love the little snow angels and the little duck feet Peter makes when he walks.
I love the plop of snow falling on his head--just *everything*!
I'd be heartbroken if my niece and nephew didn't love this one, too, and to be honest, I kind of just want The Snowy Day to always be *my* bedtime story that *my* mommy read to *me.*
The snow makes wonderful crunching noises as he leaves footprints behind him.
He tries to join in with the older boys in a snowball fight but its a little to advanced for him, so he tries something more his style, a smiling snowman, and some snow angels.
He enjoyed himself in the snow walking up gills and sliding down the other side.
He put some snow in his pocket to bring home.
And when he woke up the snow was till every where, so he called to his friend across the hall, so he could share his fun.
This book looks really familiar, like maybe I actually read it as a child.
I've learned that even though I thought that I read as a child I must have only read things that would never be deemed 'classics', or maybe I just only re-read the same books over and over again.
This book captures a nice nostalgia for being little and having a snow day, when the time seemed to stretch out forever and so much shit was packed into the day that now it's baffling how you could ever do so much.
As a little kid I don't know if I would have thought much of this book.
This realistic fiction story provides detailed illustrations to place the reader in a winter backdrop with a story about a little boy named Peter waking up to a beautiful snowy day. It’s a great story for someone who has not experienced a snowy day because the author provides insight on Bobby’s adventures throughout the day. The author's multicultural perspective will leave you content, you’ll find the vibrant colors pleasing to your eye and Bobby’s emotions throughout the story will leave you reminiscing about your childhood memories!
I picked this up at my library the other day and was amazed to see the 50th Anniversary sticker on the cover. Really? FIFTY? No matter, this lovely story is timeless and adorable and wonderful. May it live another 50 years... and more.2008 Truly classic, wonderful and timeless.
This book is adorable! We share Peter's adventures as he plays through a great day of snow, making snowballs, a smiling snowman, a cute snow angel, and walking around making different tracks and patterns!
the illustrations alone in this book make it worth having.
The Snowy Day written by Ezra Jacks Keats is an everyday tale about a young boy named Peter experiencing his first day in snow.
This Caldecott award winner depicts the boys interests and discoveries as he travels and explores in this winter wonderland.This selection definitely deserved the Caldecott Award because: ~The new White Wonderland as displayed in the illustrations was actually a plethora of colors, which differentiates from most illustrators depictions of snow; instead of the monochromatic white against the red of Peter's snow jacket, the snow was covered in pale purples, blues and greens.
If you read this picture book to young kids who have not yet experienced the pleasure of all the fun they can have in the snow, it will give them a taste of what it can be like, and it will most likely cause them to plead with you to take them somewhere snowy.So, I did not first read this/have it read to me on June 26, 2008.
Got reacquainted with her recently, a group of my fifth grade classmates, some who I've never lost touch with, and talked of all sorts of things, books especially.
This book is also a part of the Kindergarten reading plan for our charter school and we read it today.
Although I could see no great wonder in the story, or the "okay" illustrations that won a Caldecott award, my 5 yr old son's whole face was lit up during the entire read.
Perhaps because it's August, the time of year that we get tired of the heat and bugs and look forward to sledding and snowball fights, that he enjoyed it so much.
In any case, he loved it and wanted to read it again, so we'll be adding it to our library.
This book is just downright adorable. Watching Peter enjoy his snow day reminded me of when I was a kid and would stay out as long as possible in my new found winter wonderland. The drawing of his snowsuit is too funny. The little part sticking up at the top is so cute. I'd read this to any child for a bedtime story, especially in these cold winter months.
A cute, short story book about a little boy and his adventures in freshly fallen snow.
I'm used to stories of people fighting to portray their own cultures as valid and worth being part of literature, but it's less common for someone of another race to do so, and that's pretty cool.More importantly, the book tells a compelling story that celebrates human experience, not a specific culture.
I feel like many modern books are short on story or meaning aside from their espoused views of tolerance and acceptance of different races, but this one tells a compelling story and makes the racial message all the more powerful because it is good on its own.
