https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1907841.The_Mad_King
This book isn’t about the King Leopold that’s mentioned in the description, instead it’s about an American on holiday named Barney Custer who has the misfortune of fitting a flyer’s description of what the escaped ‘mad king’ looks like.
Maybe it’s just because I’m such a huge Burroughs fan, but the plot is great, there isn’t really any slow spots, and there’s a lot of depth and background to the characters.
So if you feel like diving into a world of excitement I’d suggest you snatch this book up as quick as you can.
Throughout the book, Barney Custer has to take a leadership role without much instruction or direction which shows how leadership is imperative to being a hero.Barney Custer, a native of Nebraska, was born from a farmer and Princess Victoria Rubinroth of Lutha travels to his mother's land to get a feel of his mother's roots.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys adventure novels during times of war.
Overall, I really didn't enjoy this book very much.Throughout the book, Barney Custer has to take a leadership role without much instruction or direction which shows how leadership is imperative to being a hero.
I just discovered that David Stifel, that Burroughs guy, has been reading this at his podcast, The Fantastic Worlds of Edgar Rice Burroughs. He's a great reader and the story is entertaining, albeit very like a "twin" (dare I say?) of The Prisoner of Zenda.The story is not identical to Zenda but has Burroughs' own particular style and twists. It is great fun.UPDATEUnfortunately the book was unable to keep my interest with weekly or bimonthly installments. With the best will in the world I simply don't care what happens to these people anymore.
If you read a description of this book, you'll think it's just another telling of the Prince-and-the-Pauper story, because it does involve a mistaken identity. But read the book, because the amount of tension and nail-biting action will astound you. I could not put this book down whilst reading it, it's just such a good story and so well told. It's a very unique story for ERB in that sense, and frankly unique among books in general. This is one of THOSE stories.
Being familiar with the story of the Prisoner of Zenda, when I picked this tale up in my teens, I thought it was a copy of that work.
That the king he needs to impersonate in not only a coward but vindictive as well shows that our hero is the best of all choices for anything and that there is little need for him to even think of a role as Sydney Carton.I think that there should be a renaissance of Ruritanian Romances now.
The Mad King is a great place to start after you have done the Prisoner of Zenda.
On the eve of World War I, American Barney Custer undergoes a series of unlikely adventures in a small Balkan country that is undergoing a crisis of succession to its throne.I was listening to David Stifel’s audio version of this story on his excellent podcast, The Fantastic Worlds of Edgar Rice Burroughs.
I felt little inclination to obtain even a free copy for my Kindle app.
I love ERB, but it turns out that his tried and true formula, complete with its over reliance on coincidence, is just too tiresome without the distractions of monsters and lost worlds.
This story reminded me of the serials that we used to see before the Saturday matinee when I was a kid. It's kind of a Prince and Pauper scenario; two cousins, one a king, one a American citizen; the king of Lutha has been kept a prisoner by his regent for 10 years and the American, Barney Custer, on a vacation to see his mother's home country, is mistaken for the king. Lots of adventure, a beautiful princess, all you want from a Edgar Rice Burroughs story.
I downloaded this onto my smartphone, where I do most of my light reading, from U. of VA's E-book site.It's a good rollicking, deus ex machina, early 20th century action novel. I make no claims about having high brow reading preferences, or not. But in any case, on a deep level, there's a lot to be said for fairytales.
I simply had to put this book down after it ended, because I needed my hands for stuff. Otherwise I was totally stuck in this most most endearing of adventure tales.Is it derivative? Probably. But I frankly don't give a damn, and you probably won't either, what with the breakneck pace and all.
Thoroughly disappointing. Not at all as intriguing as the many other books by Burroughs. The story was interesting enough to make me wonder what would happen to the American, the mad King, and the Princess, but not interesting enough to make me want to read through part two.
A fun pulp adventure in the "Ruritanian" genre.
Attractive and incorporating story about mistaken identity which leads into capture, escape, love and betrayal.
Free or real cheap on Kindle. Overwrought plot, clearly a boys' adventure story.
I expect a prince and pauper story to be a bit contrived, but this was way over the top. I'd give it 1.5 stars, if I could.
Meh.
It was an interesting and decent book, felt a bit long, maybe long winded too but I didn't feel I had wasted my time.
Wish I cold give it 2.5 stars since it's the definition of okay.
But then there are those books like "The Mad King" that might be best categorized as a Medieval Adventure tale except it takes place in contemporary times.
Peter of Blentz of course, enjoys ruling the kingdom of Lutha and and in order to insure he still rules Lutha, decides after ten years of living in an asylum, young King Leopold must die.
Along the way, Custer has many adventures, rescues the princess, realizes he's of the same royal blood as King Leopold and eventually marries Emma Von der Tamm.
Edgar Rice Burroughs' The Mad King (published 1926) is true to the Ruritanian Romance genre popularized by Anthony Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda (published 1894).A ruler (usually of a small European country -- although Robert A.
A lot of our enjoyment was in the humor of this book which especially evident when the American Barney Custer of Beatrice, Nebraska meets the Luthanian Princess Emma Von Der Tann (promised in an arranged marriage to King Leopold).
Burroughs can be a real hoot at times...those times when the ole willing suspension of disbelief gets tweaked and tweaked and tweaked again and again, or just the one or two times.
w/o the attendant mediot explanation for what events are unfolding and why they are important.Late in the story, the cousin of the willing suspension of disbelief...dunno if any of the big heads ever put a word on it....touchstone?
tweaked....still, the story floes and floes, even if one comes away w/the feeling that Burroughs is tweaking with you.Not one king, right, but two....one of those situations where 2 peoples look alike...Yeah, well, Harry Crews had twins at the end of Car....so eat it!
The story takes place in the fictional kingdom of Lutha, lying somewhere between Austria and Serbia (although with more of a Bavarian feel to it than a Slovenian one), roughly around the early 20th century.
First he is mistaken as the local, soon to be murdered, monarch and must fight to free himself and the aforementioned monarch to put him on the throne and then after a brief interlude back in Beatrice, Nebraska, Barney returns to maintain Lutha's independence from Austria.
The end is a given but fun nonetheless.
Definitely a pulp style read but a quick and entertaining one nonetheless.
Yes, at times his delivery is a bit incredulous, but the story moves well.
There is mistaken identity, a love story, and a variety of villains from suave diplomats to petty personalities and ambitious royalty who will even use murder to further their ends.
I remember reading this years ago but had forgotten most of the story.
It was a great read the second time.
Be adventuresome and have some fun reading The Mad King, and then pass it on to a young boy who will see a red-blooded American hero rise to the top and hopefully be inspired to do so in his own life.
The book 'Prisoner of Zenda' has inspired many other works and adaptations including the film 'Dave' with Kevin Kline.
Its hard to know where this version sits.
The first half of it which is the rewrite of 'Prisoner of Zenda' is quite fun and actually a little more entertaining than the original in my opinion.
The second-half based on the sequel to Zenda (i'm assuming) however just really outstayed its welcome and i got quite bored with it by the end.
There's an excellent version of this on Libravox which i started listening too, once i got bored with reading it.
A rip-roaring page turner, like a Saturday-morning serial of yesteryear.
In the same vein as The Prisoner of Zenda, this is a cracking adventure story about a royal lookalike who finds himself embroiled in internal strife of a small country when he visits Europe from the USA.
A hundred years since its publication, I find its Americans-are-best attitude a little hard to swallow, but if you take that as ironic, it adds to your amusement of this book.
The protagonist is a kind of Richard Hannay figure albeit a Yank, and every chapter ends with a cliffhanger or moment of high drama.
You have the real king, who is a pussy, and the american, who is actually more kinglike than the king.
During this book the american gets confussed for the king by the princsess en everybody else because they look so alike.
The american gets the chance a few times to 'steal' the throne, however, he doesn't.
I must say sometimes is was a bit confussed to who was who, as the american sat on the trone a couple of times as well..
But although the book is old (1914 and 1915) the story is still fun to read.
This tale was ok, but its definitely not a preferred Burroughs book for me... I guess I just think the Mars stories are better...However, it is said that the King of Lutha is mad and on the 'loose' and it so happens that a look-alike American named Barney is around ... Sounds like Prisoner of Zenda, hey...
Luckily this book is now public domain, because it's not easy to find in used bookstores anymore. I read this in high school and really enjoyed it. I have recently reread it and can say, it's not a book that's going to change your life, but it is a fun read with maybe ONE too many twists and turns.
Fun swashbuckling sort of adventure set in fiction European country. Our stalwart hero looks like the imprisoned king who's fighting the evil grand vizier or something for the throne in the first part. In the second, he must return and prevent a war, save the girl, and defeat his enemies once again. Super fun.
Edgar Rice Burroughs had his books that were in a series and then a number of titles that were stand alone. This is a stand alone title.A young man moves from being an outcast to becoming the king of a small European country. It isn't the best of Burroughs, but it is fun if you already like Burroughs.
Science Fiction
