https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1369981.Bangarwadi
this book is just awesome, but due to its distressed closure, rating it at 4...feel it should have been ended with a positive note...nyways, the story is very interesting & exciting till climax, a newly trained teacher got a job in a remote village of maharashtra where there was a school just for the sake of it, the school & studies for vilagers children was a matter of joke.

this books are so wonderful , takes you into a village life of MAharastra , its kind people , their language & lifestyle ... must read
A simple book about a simple village of simple people.
“रंज की जब गुफ़तगू होने लगी आप से तुम तुम से तू होने लगी” is a famous gazhal by Daag Dehalwi. I like the original sung by Ghulam Ali and one Hari Haran sang too. The tune is awesome, but the lyrics are amazing as well. Like everything worth doing, it gets better with time. And that’s what the gazhal says. Reading good stuff has the same experience. Some books are to be read and some are to be reread several times. “Bangarwadi” belongs to the latter category. Vyankatesh Madgulkar was a talented w
“रंज की जब गुफ़्तगू होने लगी आप से तुम तुम से तू होने लगी” is a famous gazhal by Daag Dehalwi.
Like everything worth doing, it gets better with time.
And that’s what the gazhal says.
Reading good stuff has the same experience.
Some books are to be read and some are to be reread several times.
He taught himself to read English so that he can enjoy works in English.
His strength as an observer of nature and people is seen in Bangarwadi.
For the same reason Bangarwadi is a long poem.
I can’t wait to retire to read Bangarwadi again.
लेखकाचे सवतःचे अनुभव आणि तयाचया जोडीला वयकतिचितरण-निसरगचितरण याची साचेबदध मांडणी महणजे बनगरवाडी .मेंढपाळांची वाडी/गाव आणि तयांचया जीवनातील असंखय अडचणी, तया अडचणींचा सामना करणयासाठीची गावकऱयांचया अंगची ऊरजा आणि निसरग याचे सुरेख मिशरण चितारले आहे माडगूळकर यांनी.जया कुणाला पूरवी गावठाणे कशी होती आणि माणसांची आयुषये कशी वयतीत वहायची, गावकऱयांचे वयवहार कसे चालायचे याबददल जाऊन घेणयाची उतसुकता असेल तयाचयासाठी बनगरवाडी हि कादंबरी साकषात देवदूतच आहे.
लेखकाचे स्वतःचे अनुभव आणि त्याच्या जोडीला व्यक्तिचित्रण-निसर्गचित्रण याची साचेबद्ध मांडणी म्हणजे बनगरवाडी .मेंढपाळांची वाडी/गाव आणि त्यांच्या जीवनातील असंख्य अडचणी, त्या अडचणींचा सामना करण्यासाठीची गावकऱ्यांच्या अंगची ऊर्जा आणि निसर्ग याचे सुरेख मिश्रण चितारले आहे माडगूळकर यांनी.ज्या कुणाला पूर्वी गावठाणे कशी होती आणि माणसांची आयुष्ये कशी व्यतीत व्हायची, गावकऱ्यांचे व्यवहार कसे चालायचे याबद्दल जाऊन घेण्याची उत्सुकता असेल त्याच्यासाठी बनगरवाडी हि कादंबरी साक्षात देवदूतच आहे.
A heart touching literature. It shows the stereotypes & heritages of 90s villages. It represents renunciation & conditions of people. In short life of 'Alpa-Santoshi'.
Exceptionally amazing.
I found this book okay. Could have found better, had I read this one 2 years ago.
Amazing book......the language speaks a lot here....how the teacher got adjusted to school here.. how the different characters were introduced in his life there...just very nice book...how exactly is the village life....the way people behave....everything is very nicely written......!!!!
Its a Marathi Classic. Lover of rustic life like me wont put it down until the last page is finished. Gripping narration and beautiful story of a school teacher
pre-independence India brought alive through the lives of Dhangars and Ramoshis....
A picture of village.With details
mast
GOOD ONE
awesome book and movie as well
Read Bangarwadi when I was in school but the story is still so fresh in my head. All this nostalgia is making me want to reread it.
Fantastic read
Ilike this book.
Simple village simple people and hence simple book. Just reminded me my childhood as i raised in a village(more than a village...he he he)
NA
how can I read book in this application plz anyone help me
good book to read...
