https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186444.Dreams_Underfoot
* for the ones I have/read.Q. Where do I start reading the Newford stories?A.
The best place to start is the collection Dreams Underfoot.
From there they go pretty much in this order:Dreams Underfoot*The Dreaming PlaceA Whisper To A Scream (originally credited to "Samuel M.
Key")I'll Be Watching You (originally credited to "Samuel M.
A Whisper To A Scream and I'll Be Watching You are, respectively, a horror novel and a thriller; they're darker fare than the other Newford books and aren't really that integral to the underlying, ongoing backstory that takes place off center stage in so many of the books and stories.
I was just a wee freshman in high school when I discovered Charles de Lint, and my addiction to his characters and fictional world of urban mythology all started with this book.
It has been 14 years now and I'm still a huge fan.The first edition paperback of this book actually has an oil painting by Terri Windling on the cover of a celtic looking woman with deer horns, a flute, and an oak leaf tattoo over her eye.
De Lint focuses a lot on Kickaha native american ideas since Newford is a fictional town in Canada.
De Lint also has a lot of homeless people in his stories.
But de Lint's messages here are essentially about the importance of human community and relationships, of kindness and caring and responsibility, of openness to finding "the world a far more strange and wondrous place than its mundaneness allowed it could be." (Some of the stories clearly discourage loose and exploitative sex.) So its "moral tendency," if you will, is a wholesome one, and its vision winsome --given half a chance, I'd gladly move to Newford, and count it a privilege to be friends with Jilly and her buddies!Probably my favorite story in this collection is "Ghosts of Wind and Shadow;" but "The Stone Drum," "That Explains Poland," and "Romano Drom" are standouts, too.
I had previously read Moonheart (which I loved) and Memory and Dream (which I thought was excellent, though not quite as good as Moonheart).
The prose in each of the stories is lush and beautiful with a dream like quality that de Lint is well known for.
The stories themselves are a mixed bag of excellent to merely okay.
Overall, a good collection with writing superior to most of the Urban Fantasy out there but sort of hit/miss on the strength of each story.
One Final note: I listened to the audio version read by Kate Reading (who I think is terrific) and she did an excellent job with the book.
It's not quite a novel, but then not quite short stories either.
Short stories, I suppose, in the sense that each "chapter" can be read independently of any other, and in fact were originally published in many separate literature collections.
At the same time they all fit together so it really does feel like reading a fluid story that isn't quite in order, doesn't have a plot and is all the better for it.When I got this out at the library, the librarian raved about it, stating finally tat she would give anything to live in Newford.
What’s also revealing about these set of short stories is not only has de Lint managed to capture the essence of many myths of the past, by portraying a good portion of the stories in tragic terms, tragedy being something we forget embodies more than a few fantasies, myths, and fairy tales, but that these stories, in both their senses, have characters who are deeply affected and/or scarred by their experiences, experiences that will not always resolve itself, if ever, at the end of the last page of the story.
A collection of short stories that actually works very well as a 'novel.' They all share a setting and theme - that of troubled, often creative young people encountering myth and magic in the imaginary city of Newford.
And this time, I pinned it down:de Lint reminds me, exactly, of any one of a number of usually well-meaning counselors, teachers and other 'adult' figures, who, when I was a teenager, were CONVINCED that due to my 'alternative' look, creative bent, and independent, rebellious attitude, that I must be suffering from low self-esteem, and hiding some sort of dreadful trauma that had 'made me that way.'(view spoiler)[There's even a story here where a girl tells a counselor a story of trauma and then says, "Oh, I'm lying, I just said that because I knew it was what you wanted to hear." I said "YES!
Absolutely amazing tale and introduction for characters I have learned to love in his later works.Timeskip gets a solid 5 stars.
4.5 Stars.Bridges gets 5 Stars for its relatable character, Moira, and the hauntingly beautiful bridge city <3Our Lady of the Harbour was one of the longer stories in this collection.
5 stars <3<3<3<3So as you can tell I absolutely loved this short story collection and the first installment of the Newford series, even though it was published after a few novels in the series.
Charles de Lint was writing urban fantasy well before the genre's current wave of popularity.
Terri Windling's introduction to this edition discusses the difficulty of trying to pin such a book down to a single genre.I'm currently attempting to read through all Charles de Lint's Newford books in order of publication.
De Lint's writing reflects the fact that he is a musician with a bard's sense of rhythm and flow.
For readers who enjoy folkloric fantasy and who are not familiar with the work of this prominent writer in the genre, I recommend this collection as a starter.
Just right for nighttime reading.De Lint is a prolific Canadian author who has written many books set in the fictional city of Newford, of which this is the first; most of the stories were originally published in magazines in the late 80s and early 90s.
Not every author can write a complete story from beginning to end in 20 pages, much less create reader investment in such a short time.
I enjoyed this book, with its mix of bohemian life and the supernatural, and would consider reading more De Lint in the future.
Review initially published on my blog, Writing by Numbers,  here.It’s uncomfortable and a little odd to admit that this collection of short stories mostly made me think I wouldn’t de Lint very much.
That he considers himself an appealing blend of Peter-Pannish proponent of imagination, and storyteller with his finger on the pulse of gritty urbanity.
It’s like de Lint built characters from tropes and his beliefs about what such people might think or feel, rather than starting from each character as a person.
But it feels like he’s co-opting voices that aren’t his own.The stories themselves are okay.
This collection of short stories was the first of Charles de Lint's Newford books that I read 20 years ago. I might not rate it quite as high now (perhaps a 4), but at the time - it was immersive and amazing and I could almost (not quite!) see hints of the magical from the corner of my eye after I finished reading. I was happy to discover that de Lint's Newford tales have retained their own immersive magic all these years later.
Читала этот сборник рассказов еще в электронке много лет назад, а сейчас перечитывала в бумажном варианте. Как же я была рада вновь пройтись по улочкам Ньюфорда и послушать его истории, снова встретиться с его героями, как с родными, и окунуться в эту немного мрачную, реалистичную и пронизанную магией неповторимую атмосферу. Де Линт и его книги неповторимы.
Jilly is a great character and I can't wait to see her again, as well as Geordie the fiddle player.De Lint has this "magic is just out of the corner of your eye if only you knew how to see it" philosophy, which I suppose makes it urban fantasy, but it felt more like folklore.
Unfortunately I felt that it turned so-so again, and none of the other stories have really stuck with me like that one.
Time Skip has a resolution later on in the book but I didn't like that story nearly so much.
Thoroughly unimpressed.Maybe this wasn't a Lint book I should've started with. Or something. I guess it just didn't work out for me. Anthologies, unless really compelling, don't roll with me in the first place, and this just...didn't. At all. The stories were really discombobulated and disorganized and I mean you could've arranged them throughout the book in whatever order you wanted but why did you choose this order?!...ugh. I dunno, guys.
Good reviews are always harder for me to write than bad ones. This book just sings to me--I love the sparse, clean prose; the engaging, three-dimensional characters; the twisted but familiar storylines and the city of Newford. I love that de Lint sets his urban fantasies in a Canadian city, which is a welcome change from the UScentric urban fantasy I usually read. I was sad to close the book after reading the next page, and I want more.
Стилът се води градско фентъзи, а в него са вплетени много легенди, приказки, поверия и митове, в които присъстват както свръхестествени елементи, така и ужасии :)Действието се развива в Нюфорд- на пръв поглед обикновено градче, но дълбоко в сърцето му магията е жива.
"Помнете - никой не вижда света така, както вие го виждате и никой не може да разкаже историите, които вие може да разкажете.""Магията на този свят, изглежда е творение от шепоти и малки добрини." Жалко, че творбите на Чарлз де Линт са останали незабелязани или по- скоро пренебрегнати от издателския бизнес в България, защото той е наистина много добър и талантлив разказвач.
Several of the later Newford books have caught my eye in the past, but being kind of anal about reading series in order and never knowing where to start, I stayed away from the books.
I can't remember what it was that recently sent me to de Lint's site, but there in the FAQ I found his recommended reading order for the Newford books.
I highly recommend this book and I'm looking forward to reading my way through the series now that I know what order I'm supposed to read them in.
Dreams Underfoot Charles de Lint Newford Novels, Book 1 9/10
This was my second time through this collection of short stories of Newford. When I first read it several years ago, it enchanted me, scared me, and made it hard to sleep. It was one of my first forays into urban fantasy and has stuck with me ever since. The magic was still there with this reading, just a little harder to access at times. Some of the stories were amazing, some fell a little bit flat. But it did leave me wanting to read more from the series to try and find more pieces of the magic.
Но все отлично, пока он остается в рамках сказок и не пытается выставить грубую социальщину на первый план.Отлично вписано переплетение всех историй, где линии героев подходят друг к другу вплотную, а потом главные действующие лица от рассказа к рассказу сменяются на друзей, знакомых, ранее упомянутых незнакомцев и т.д.
Но потом это оказывается оберткой рассказа, где девелопмент персонажа сводится к насилию в семье и таймскипу в настоящее, где он словно по волшебству стал феей-крестной :хЧтение для меня оказалось наполнено ожиданием очередного сюжетного повтора - когда следующий герой прикоснется к магии, откажется поверить в происходящее, расскажет другу, и вместе они переживут нечто совершенно удивительное и подвластное только тем, в ком живет желание приглядеться к другой стороне.
Американски(или Канадски) град пълен с пънк и джаз барове, картинни галерии, изоставени квартали, гета, предградия и всичко останало, което един голям град трябва да има.
В Нюфорд магията е жива и струи от всяка страница на книгата.Героите на г-н де Линт са музиканти, художници, писатели, клошари, сервитьорки, често са с тежко минало и всички вярват в магията, а тя има нужда само от малко вяра.Историите са абсолютно неочаквани, различни и интересни.
Винаги има напрежение, което те държи и след края на историята.Чарлз де Линт е абсолютно неизвестен в България, нещо което трябва да се промени.
Dreams Underfoot is the first book in the long running Newford series by Charles de Lint; a man partially responsible for the genres Urban Fantasy and Mythic Fiction.
Along with a few peers de Lint’s work launched the concept of fantasy elements merged with contemporary time periods and modern settings.
Which makes me a bad fantasy fan, especially because I really enjoyed reading this book.
Wholly and utterly in one fell swoop.Dreams Underfoot is a book of short stories woven together with a few simple themes.
One doesn’t feel as if they were reading a book about the people in Newford but a book about Newford itself; a magical place of the incredible.
Also, it felt a bit as though de Lint was trying to tell me something with each story, trying to make me learn a lesson about life, love, living, what have you.
These stories are as much positive and wonderful and happily ever afters as negative and threatening and trying to explain that life isn't just cherry blossoms and tea time.
I know that the characters will; they definitely came off the page and seemed so real, like if I were to start walking the 2am streets of my city I could meet them, and they'd open the doors to the Faerie realm for me!
Of course this does not result in anything even mildly resembling a novel and there is no ongoing story, just a lot of strange happenings centered on a fictional city.
Thankfully none of the stories were bad, but most were not particularly interesting to me either.
I probably would have preferred just to read those two stories back to back and leave the rest.If you like stories with a distinct plot, this book may not be for you, but if you like "slice of life" stories then there may be a lot here to enjoy.
I'm giving this four stars because I would give it three stars for the writing, and five for how much I loved it. That doesn't make much sense, let me explain: the writing was a little overwrought with metaphor and simile, and there were certainly some problematic elements to some of the stories...but the stories themselves pulled me along. Like magic.
Loved this, i am a fan of Charles De Lint's stories and this is one of his earlier compilations set in Newford was amazing to read. The combination of folklore, tragedy, magic and mysticism in an everyday setting i find so captivating.
This is an introduction to Charles de Lint's Newford series.
It is a wonderful short story collection of contemporary fantasy .
The author has taken folklore and the land of fairy out of its typical setting and placed them in a gritty, urban setting.
The short stories revolve around residents of De Lint's make believe city of Newford.
It sort of reads like a novel.
I also like the author's writing style.
He gently and magically weaves his tales for the reader, making it almost a dream like reading experience.
In "Paperjack" (1991) Geordie (with help from Jilly and a mysterious old black man who is an origami sensei) tries to come to terms with the tragic events of "Timeskip."In the last story of the collection, "Tallulah" (1991), Christy Riddell, whose stories have been popping up throughout Dreams Underfoot, explains his (and de Lint's!) themes "about love and loss, honor and the responsibilities of friendship, and wonder, always wonder" and recounts his intense relationship with a mysterious, well-read, punky woman who can only be with him at night.
I remember picking this up when it came out. I was working at the bookstore, and I'd heard so much about Charles de Lint, and when I realized it was short fiction, I was in (I've always loved short fiction). That it ended up being magical realism in a contemporary setting was like icing on the cake.
Entertaining and varied. I'll probably write a more detailed review, but it wasn't at the top or bottom of my readings, but it did capture my imagination, from time to time.Lots of scenarios involving being true to yourself and letting go of things that you no longer need to cling to.
