https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24910.World_s_Fair
My mother was 11 years old when she visited Flushing Meadows in 1939 and it influenced her life as significantly as it did Doctorow's.
Both he and his avatar 'Edgar' were two years younger than my mother.
For Edgar the Worlds Fair is not just a glimpse of other worlds, but rather, as for my mother, the symbol of a hope for a new world.
Edgar's father with his failing business sees it expressly as that, in almost the same words I am sure my mother quoted to me from my grandfather.
Young Edgar, bright and observant, describes Jewish family life as he knew it growing up in the Bronx in the 1930’s.
Now I have something other than Radio Days to go on for a mental image of the times.Edgar’s parents fell somewhere in the vast middle ground between Norman Rockwell and dysfunction.
Like their father, brother Donald was clever, aware, and good at working angles, but unlike the old man, he was also responsible.
In a way the whole book seemed like stories told by an old guy rummaging just such a trove.
Adult Edgar Altschuler is looking back on his 1930s childhood with the wonder and fears of a young boy.
This is not a book with a lot of action, but it's a good character study of a boy growing up in that era.
Although it is fiction, E.L. Doctorow incorporates events from his own childhood into the story.Two visits to the 1939 World's Fair, with its pavilions full of futuristic ideas, come near the end of the book.
Moving into the next decade, there's a feeling that Edgar, near adolescence, and the world will both be undergoing many changes.
I believe World’s Fair is a literary reproduction by E.
“I imagined houses as superior beings who talked silently to each other.”Child’s imagination, child’s fantasies and memories of our childhood are all dear to us.
They would have to stay in hotels, they would have to have dinner, they would spend money going to Radio City and they would pass the shop and see records and electrolas they wanted and they would come in and buy something.
People on trips always set aside money to buy things.
He was very optimistic.”Life goes on, we grow older but memories of childhood remain the brightest and dearest.
Este no es el caso de ‘La feria del mundo’, que Doctorow lleva con mano firme, sin apenas flashbacks que interrumpan el hilo narrativo y temporal de la historia, algo de agradecer.Siguiendo las andanzas de Edgar, conoceremos a su familia: su madre, Rose, su padre, Dave, su hermano mayor, Donald, su abuela materna, y su tío Willy, además de la familia de su padre, destacando su tía Frances.
The book ends with the burying of a time capsule, but actually that is the best way of describing the whole book!
The central character is a young boy; he is still only nine when the book ends.
The problem is that this kid, his name is Edgar, uses words way beyond his years, and it is predominantly him telling the whole story.
You knew these family members well by the book's end.
Character portrayal is not the point of the book.
The author's inability to define the age of the person telling the story became even more evident with the narrator's childish tone.
The family suffers from hard times as his father is not able to sustain a decent income, partly from the nature of the times, but also the result of a toxic gambling habit (and maybe other vices as well).
In fact, by the end of the book he has just entered fifth grade and begun school with his first pair of long pants (which cannot be literal, given New York winters) The characters are well-portrayed, believable, and we care about Edgar.
History begins and ends the book, starting with Rose telling us of her birth and ending with Edgar dropping a time capsule into the ground.
Over the course of the novel, he grows from a pre-schooler to a boy in the fifth grade.In the "olden days" you waited until the baby was born to find out whether a boy or a girl.
I always wanted girls because I thought I wouldn't know what to do with a boy.
I love my daughters and wouldn't have it any other way, but something inside me says boys might have been more of an adventure.
It was almost as if Doctorow had written this wonderful childhood, but to make it worth a novel he had to tack on something.
There will be no new Doctorow novels.
I loved this book.
It is set in the Bronx of the 30s.
My mother grew up there in those days and told me many stories about it.
Reading about Morris High School (her alma mater), the Grand Concourse, Jerome Avenue, the automat, and more made it seem very special to me, although I haven't seen any of those places for nearly 50 years and then only once.
It was kind of like City Boy: The Adventures of Herbie Bookbinder, a well-loved book of my youth, and Radio Days, one of my favorite films.
Will probably read it again one of these days.
There is a beautiful passage as he recalls the most memorable part of his favourite book, Tom and Beckie, lost in the caves, and rescued by Injun Joe. Sport plays an important role in his life also, the New York Giants, and the Yankees.
The game was about to begin!“What do you think of this?” My father said, smiling at us in triumph.
“I like Castoria because it’s foul-tasing and gives you terrible diarrhoea, and we all know what fun that can be.”I was not fond of the Dodgers.
People liked their pugnacity, as if they were a street gang.
hmmm...this is going to sound lame-ass, but when a book is titled 'world's fair' and the fair in nyc is noted on the jacket copy...you kind of expect the world's fair to be an anchor in the story.
the novel's family are also named the same as doctorow's family - dave, rose and donald, his parents and brother.), fiction and a bit of history too.
this is a great portrait of a family in nyc city trying to carve out an existence during two life-changing global events - the depression and world war two.
doctorow won the 1986 national book award for for fiction for world's fair and i totally get why.
World’s Fair is the story of a Jewish boy growing up in New York in the ‘30s.
It’s told in his voice, with occasional chapters written from the point of view of family members—as if the boy, now older, had questioned them about his childhood and family.
There are dual forces at work here—present and future, freedom and restriction, mother and father, fact and fiction (for it seems that much of this book is autobiographical)--perhaps all represented by the Trylon and Perisphere sculptures of the 1939 World’s Fair.
It’s a really poignant and evocative story…one that made me wonder why I haven’t read everything by Doctorow!
Nearly perfect coming of age story, set in NYC, during the 1930s, capping off with the World's Fair in '38. This looks to be based on Doctorow's early life.
If we use our imaginations, guided by good writing, we can gain new experiences beyond what is possible in our own lives.
I felt like I was living in the Jewish community in the Bronx in the 1930s, growing up along with Edgar Altschuler.
And there was the even greater threat, like dark clouds building up on the horizon, which was the rise of Hitler and Nazism in Germany, a threat which would sooner or later engulf America in war...Our story ends with the wondrous World's Fair in New York in 1939 and 1940, where young Edgar learns more than he should have.
World’s Fair is a marvelous and heartwarming novel of a young boy’s coming of age.
Taking place before the Second World War in Doctorow’s hometown of New York City, the book relives a quest for memory through the recollections of the young protagonist, simply referred to as Edgar.
The story's energy and lyricism generate a magical feeling around the valuable lessons that shape Edgar's moral standing and broaden his perspective of the world.
Perhaps Doctorow’s most personally revealing novel, World’s Fair is resonant and rewarding in all its beauty and tenderness.
Some readers have been frustrated by this book's lack of a strong plot or storyline along the lines of Billy Bathgate or Ragtime but what it lacks in this regard it makes up in other ways.
The family members' personalities and characteristics are captured vividly as are childhood memories, concerns, anxieties, fears, excitements, and play.
The protagonist is a bright and engaging young boy and the narration is both mature and at the same time reflective of the wonders and mysteries of boyhood.
This is a wonderful reminiscence that captures well the NYC of the 1930s and that remarkable and magical period of a person's life known as childhood.
I read this book at the same time as Jane Smiley's upcoming novel Some Luck, which was an interesting experience.
While Smiley's characters are given voices appropriate to their age (a child sees the world through a child's eyes), Doctorow's Edgar is looking back at his childhood and waxing philosophic.
There are also a few odd chapters here and there told by other characters, as if written in a letter to Edgar.
For a look at 1930s New York City that lets you hear the elevated train rattle overhead and run down the street for a game of stickball, World's Fair delivers.
From the jacket, and true: "World's Fair is better than a time capsule; it's an actual slice of a long-ago world, and we emerge from it as dazed as those visitors standing on the corner of the future." [--Anne Tyler]Yep...
Doctorow's craft is dated (uh, like Tolstoy is dated); to read it is to watch the literary equivalent of a furniture maker who doesn't use nails.
The story, which won the National Book Award in 1986, takes you back to the late 1930's and fixes your gaze towards the present.
"Like looking death in the face," to paraphrase one of the characters.
Doctorow’s World’s Fair chronicles Edgar Altschuler’s recollections of his first ten years of existence, the growth of his childish awareness of the difficulties of life, and the personal handicaps placed on him as he attempts to acquire self-assurance and experience happiness.
He must forge his way through all of these difficulties to develop the self-confidence necessary to persevere against the adversities, both indiscriminate and deliberate, of his time and location.As an infant, Edgar was asthmatic, allergic to everything, a great burden to his resolute mother.
Their difficulties created a kind of magnetic field for me in which I swung this way or that according to the direction of the current.” Late in the novel Donald assesses his father.
Sjajna priča o odrastanju. Obožavam knjige koje nastaju iz djecijeg ugla, ili još bolje kad pisac zna da se vrati u svoje djetinjstvo i ponovo ga oživi. Sva ona dječija nadanja, otkrivanje svijeta, boje, zvuci, osjećaji, prve ljubavi, patnje i sve ono što nosi jedan mladi život.Ova je baš takva knjiga. Odrastanje u Njujorku tridesetih godina, sve ono što nose ulice pred sam rat. Preživljavanje, rast, otkrivanje, tuga i sreća.
I’m not disappointed, but this novel definitely pales in comparison to the magic of Ragtime, which converges intriguing storylines toward a central plot driven by a cast of provocative characters and events.To be fair, the comparison isn’t justified since the two books have different concerns.
World’s Fair blends fiction with memoir in recollecting Edgar Altschuler’s childhood in the 1930s Bronx.
The exclusion of any narrative sections from the father, whom Edgar adored and who I found particularly interesting, did have me wondering what happened to him, why he didn't make an appearance.I give this book 3.75 stars.
The adult writer has also approached family members for their reminisces, and some chapters of the book are in the words of the boy's mother, Rose, brother, Donald, father, Dave, and his Aunt Frances.A beauty of this novel is the way in which it captures the innocence and feelings of early childhood in simple language but with an adult's sensibility and nostalgia.
The system worked beautifully."Something may be learned here in our own troubled times.In a review published after Doctorow's death, Tom Cox described "World's Fair" as "an overlooked classic of American literature." Cox wrote that the book created a voice that "is wise, comforting, open-eyed with wonder and authentic all at the same time".
When these seven chapters are interspersed in the book they are written as if the character whose point of view we are getting is telling their perspective to the adult Edgar, who is our guide in this tale.
The interspersion creates a nice contrast in the text, and is a good technique as employed here."World's Fair" is a beautifully written book, but it is also fair to say that at times it is overwritten.
It is an astounding feat, and a real testament to the greatness of this book.A highlight of the novel is chapters 28 & 29, which feature Edgar going to the 1939 World's Fair, and it is magical.
World's Fair is structured as a series of memories mostly recounted by Edgar, whom we first meet as a pre-schooler and last see as a fifth-grader who's sorted out some of life's questions and seems ready to take on a few more.
Speaking of gratitude--with Thanksgiving just a couple of weeks away--after reading a book like this I realized that I should regularly give thanks for the existence of such gifted writers as E.L. Doctorow.
Looks like it's time to put some other Doctorow works on the to-read list, including The Book of Daniel, The March, and Billy Bathgate.
There's certainly a lot going on, with the Depression and the outbreak of World War 2 as well as the crash of the Hindenburg (the narrator sees the airship passing over his house hours before the disaster) and the New York World's Fair of 1939.
The World's Fair is where the novel culminates, with a grand vision of the future that's somewhat at odds with the chaotic world around it.
Doctorow's clear sense of the period obviously comes from personal experience, to which he brings a descriptive flair that transports the reader right back to the era through its sights, sounds and smells.
Μουσική, ήχοι της πόλης, εικόνες του χθες, όνειρα...μέσα σε μία υπέροχη περιγραφή !
I love the juicy language and especially how Doctorow brings to life common childhood experiences, with all their mystery and confusion, in such rich and gratifying detail.
A truly enjoyable book written with such a gentle eye of observation from the boy narrator.
There really isn't a plot to this novel (I would classify this more as a memoir, though I have no idea how true it is to Doctorow's childhood), it is the chronicle of roughly the first 9 years of life for the narrator, a kid growing up in the South Bronx of the 1930s.
Doctorow maintains the childlike innocence of a kid's observation while weaving this book with a master's touch.
An endearing and timeless story about a young boy who grows up in New York during the 30s.
Remember, this is the time before America got into the second World War; its the time where Americans are still looking to the future envisioned in part during the World's Fair.Its also a time of change for Edgar's family.
And it is this, rather than the momentous times in which they live that are at center stage.
And we see it through young Edgar's eyes.This is a rare treat of a book — there are scary things but they are part of the everyday fabric of growing up during a time that we now look back at as simpler, happier.
It was only recently that I gave myself permission to stop reading a book when I wasn't enjoying it.
The pace was so slow and the details so rampant, I couldn't see myself plodding through yet another day (each 50 pages long) of knife grinding and igloo building and subway hopping and what brand of shaving cream his father used and what kind of stockings his mother wore, and so on.
Of course, I'll allow that I could be wrong because I stopped about 200 pages in and that wasn't even halfway.Life is too short and my reading list too long.
1985Really good book.
I can even imagine wanting to read it again.
The only parts I skipped were where he goes on and on about some comic action hero, things like that.Good 2011 review of it in The Guardian by Tom Cox,http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/serie...[as you might expect, only 2 of the 10 books Cox reviews are by women...sigh...]New York 1930s from persp.
of kid 4 to 10 yrs old, mostly secular Jewish family, 2nd gen.
He calls the kid Edgar, his own name.
Very very strong on family dynamics.Cox notes that D's mix of memoir and fiction, criticized at the time, would not raise an eyebrow today...I will now read other Doctorow books.
A well-written story that's enormously evocative of the day-to-day life of a boy growing up in 1930s New York City. Doctorow does seem to wander a bit, especially in the middle of the book. Additionally, he tries to tell the story from different points of view (the protagonist's mother and brother all get first-person chapters), but there's no regularity to these shifts in viewpoint, which can be a bit jarring when reading. Overall a decent read.
Maybe the chapters at the end about the kid's actual visit to the fair with his young girlfriend, although I found it creepy that he watches the girl's mother do an erotic act with a mechanical octopus.
I was puzzled by some of "young Edgar's" vocabulary; I had to read some sentences twice and still wasn't sure what Doctorow was getting at.
Was Old Edgar interviewing them, asking for their contributions to clarify his own memories?
If that was the case, then why does Young Edgar talk like an 80-year-old man?
Then, something might have happened worth reading about.
Pleasant and interesting description of one childhood and the life in New York in the 1930s. Despite all the hardships, Doctorow writes a positive story. There's only one confrontation with street thugs, and despite the depression and financial troubles the family meets, the story remains mostly positive. The description of the World's Fair is intriguing.
3.5 starsIt's 1930s in the Bronx (NYC), and little Edgar lives with his family in an apartment in a house.
As he is growing up, there is The World's Fair, which he sets his sites on going to, but in the meantime he lives in (shocking, I know) a dysfunctional family that he doesn't really understand at his age.
Here and there we see other POVs giving more background, often in a voice as though they are telling Edgar more details, although not always.This is a well written book, but I liked it, not loved it.
However, given that it was awarded the National Book Award, don't let my rating stop you from considering it.
This was a good, simple book. The young boy was a believable voice and an interesting observer of his family, neighborhood, and society, and although there was really no plot to speak of it didn't really matter. This reminded me of one of those books everyone reads in school, like  Where The Red Fern Grows , that is compelling and memorable without being especially innovative or exciting. Inspired by this book, I'm planning on reading Ragtime soon.
In World's Fair, E.L. Doctorow tells the story of a boy growing up in New York City during the Great Depression.
Much of the book reads like a memoir making me wonder if most of this tale is autobiographical.
While I've read many memoirs that snared my interest, this book had many passages that were quite boring.
I found myself skimming a lot of them.
The plot never really took off and read more like a series of distant memories.
If you're interested in what life was like during the Depression, you might want to look at it but otherwise, you probably won't.
World's Fair is a book which made this reader feel like he was holding a series of jewels up to his eye and reveling in the sheer loveliness of them. It's a novel that gives the sensations of discovery and enlightenment that the very earliest moments of literary awareness gave me in my youth. This is either a novel garbed in memoir, or a memoir viewed through the patina of a novel, but in either case, World's Fair is an incredibly moving and engaging book to read.
This was probably my 2nd favorite by EL Doctorow, after Ragtime.
It is about a boy growing up in the Bronx and the summer that the Worlds Fair was in town.
It is somewhat of a coming of age story.
It has its awkward moments, but so does life when you are 10!
It also had a lot of interesting perspectives on the "dawn of the modern age" if you will.
Really the transition from the old ways of living to the integration of modern technology into every day life.
I thought it was an excellent book and I think guys might particularly like it.
Edgar, a young boy growing up in New York, anxiously awaits the day when he will be “grown up”, when he will finally receive the respect he craves from his family.His older brother, Donald, provides a model of how to grow up to be a man, while his father represents more of an eternal child with strong curiosity, a love for life, and a troubling gambling problem.
If there’s one skill Doctorow has truly mastered, it’s highlighting the way that the past was different through detailed narrating, yet describing themes of human interest like childish wonder that can span across decades.
World’s FairE.L Doctorow 1985Reading NotesRead 1992, 2002Father: Dave Altshuler: owned a music store, socialist, loved to listen to news commentators, said you had to listen to all of them to be able to figure out the truth.
(E.L. Doctorow, World’s Fair ) However subtle my mother believed herself to be, however delicately suggestive n her statements, she was in fact brutally direct.
(E.L. Doctorow, World’s Fair )Our social life was competitive, we made alliances and broke them with the cunning of nations, but she was clearly not one of our coarse breed.
(E.L. Doctorow, World’s Fair )
Edgar Levine tells his story, with occasional help from older brother Donald, his mother Rose, and once Aunt Frances, of growing up as Jewish boy in New York in the 1930’s.
To Edgar, adults are a species to be watched, wondered at, and not entirely trusted.
(Later: “but at the same time I knew it wasn’t even these two in particular, because Christian boys were like this all over, and you were free only at their collective whim, only if they happened not to walk down your street or lope through your backyard or otherwise see you.
I sorta read one sentence in every chapter? But it was more than enough.
I'm glad I've not read all of his books because I love his stories.
Her mother works at the World's Fair and she takes both her daughter and Edgar to the Fair.
They are let loose on their own for a while, but then it comes time for the mother to go to work.
She works at the aquatic show and swims in a large tank with other real fish.
A rite of passage for Edgar.The book winds calmly on after this big event, the family moves, they have even more difficult economic times for after all, this is the depression era.
Doctorow described the novel, aptly, as "the sentimental education of a kid, a bildungsroman, if you will, that simply stops at the age of 10." The Bronx-born narrator grows up, from toddler age, as the novel proceeds.
The narrator is Doctorow's age--born in the early '30s.
I had thought "Andrew's Brain," in its weirdness, was an exception, having read "Ragtime" and "The Waterworks," but now I think each of Doctorow's books defines its terms, and they run the gamut in depth and playfulness of form.
More of me waffling on Doctorow here (on the occasion of "Andrew's Brain," another weird wonder): https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
