https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389115.Ch_ri
She felt much pain on discovering Chéri's marriage plans (although his overly protective mother plays a pivotal role in his life).Sumptuous, and beautifully written with a warm human touch, Colette, at it's core, simply writes of love and aging, and tells us how love sometimes binds and keeps a woman from breathing freely or how it may shape and support her and help her to be beautiful.
Cheri is the story of a privileged and wealthy young Frenchman living with a wealthy courtesan (Lea).
She is much older, 50 vs 25, and when Cheri marries a young woman, Lea realizes that she loves him and he is gone forever.
This book was published in 1920 and is one of her better known works, but honestly, I prefer her early novels, especially the "Claudine" books.
Colette would live a long life (1873-1954), and she wrote well into her later years.
Her novel "Gigi" was published in 1944 and later made into a movie.
Non so cosa avrei dato per poter ritrovare cambiando applicazione sul mio ipad un decimo dell’ironia e dell’intelligenza e del senso della misura che c’è dentro al dialogo (eppure cinico e ferocissimo) tra Lea e Madame Peloux.Questo libricino così ben scritto e ben congegnato, in cui tutte le differenze che possono separare ed attrarre gli esseri umani (di età, di intenzioni, di bisogni, di interessi, di sentimenti e di orizzonti di vita) sono ricondotte ad una logica e ad una regola di relazioni accettate e condivise, mi ha messo la tentazione di impegnarmi solennemente con me stesso a leggere almeno fino a dicembre solo libri scritti non meno di cento anni fa.
Publicado, pela primeira vez, em 1926, Chéri é das obras mais famosas de Colette. Conta a história da relação amorosa entre Léa - uma cortesã, a rondar os cinquenta anos, - e Chéri, vinte cinco anos mais novo, o filho de uma "colega".Normalmente, estas ligações "dão para o torto", mas Léa tem sempre um comportamento exemplar; o moço nem por isso...Gosto muito de Colette (este é o terceiro livro que leio e todos mereceram as cinco estrelas). Mas não sou a única; Chéri faz parte da lista dos quinze livros favoritos de Philip Roth.
I found nothing to enjoy, indeed I thought it was one of the worst books I have ever read and give it one star - a rating I have never used before.
The basic plot is very straightforward (and, as it was on cover of my edition, I don't think the story is meant to be the point): 25 year old Chéri (real name Fred), the son of a wealthy courtesan, has been in a long term relationship with 49 year old Léa, a friend of his mother.
She is also facing the end of her most intense love affair, with Fred Peloux—known as Chéri—a playboy half her age.
After a six-year affair, Cheri announces to Lea he is about to enter into an arranged marriage.2/5.
Lea has to face the harsh reality of her young lover Cheri's marriage to another woman.3/5.
Cheri returns from honeymoon dissatisfied, yearning to know where Lea has fled.4/5.
Lea has returned to Paris, lonely and yearning for her young lover Cheri.
Mme Peloux, Cheri's mother, brings news of him.5/5.
Cheri has returned to Lea, but can their love affair survive?Narrator ......
قرأت اول ١٠٠ صفحة والحقيقة كل ما تخطيت صفحة زدت تشوشاً لم استطع استيعاب الأحداث هل الاختلاف الاجتماعي هل الأسلوب السبب لا اعلم ولكن لم أتأقلم مع الرواية بتاتاً ولذلك توقفت وجعلتها بلا تقييم .
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.From BBC Radio 4 - 15 Minute Drama:Colette's tale of a love affair between a courtesan and a man half her age, set in Paris before WWI.1/5.
After a six-year affair, Cheri announces to Lea he is about to enter into an arranged marriage.2/5.
Lea has to face the harsh reality of her young lover Cheri's marriage to another woman.3/5.
Cheri returns from honeymoon dissatisfied, yearning to know where Lea has fled.4/5.
Lea has returned to Paris, lonely and yearning for her young lover Cheri.
Cheri has returned to Lea, but can their love affair survive?Narrator ......
As I said, not my cup of tea.
Now, despite the numerous modern elements, the title drawing attention to the enigma of one character being the most conspicuous, I don't like neither the realism nor the ending so there goes one star.Nonetheless, until I make heads and tails of this story, the following is fairly pointless and shall be grouped under the convenient spoiler tag (view spoiler)[The story, which I had known due to the movie hype, is straightforward and easily foreshadowed by a) the age of the characters b) the time and place of the action c) this being a realist novel, thus free of twists.
Todo se complica cuando él va a casarse porque la realidad se impone y los sentimientos también, como que es el punto y final de su relación por el acuerdo que tienen.En esta historia, donde hay lugar para la sensiblería, comprendemos la relación de sus personajes, pero sobre todo de Léa.
Además, este personaje, que podría resultar extraño porque ella misma se jacta de poder escoger a sus amantes, es sobria y además es objetiva: sabe que su belleza se va perdiendo con el pasar de los años.
Brilhante. Uma bela cortesã de quarenta e nove anos, Leónie Vallon, Léa de Lonval, deixa-se conquistar por Fred, Chéri, um jovem de vinte e cinco anos, mimado, petulante e infantil, e ele entrega-se sem tréguas a esta experiente mulher. No entanto, ela continua uma mulher independente, de personalidade forte e segura, até que o casamento por interesse dele coloca um ponto final na relação.Paixão, sedução e volúpia pairam neste pequeno romance fascinante, numa excelente tradução de José Saramago.Foi adaptado ao cinema por Stephen Frears.
4'5 ⭐ No me hubiera importado leer otras 100 páginas
Due esseri, due ricchissimi cigni superficiali fino a quel momento, ma poi contemporaneamente sperimentanti il dolore, mai conosciuto prima, e riconoscendolo come dolore derivante dalla loro separazione, e quindi riconoscendo anche l’amore fino ad allora tenuto inespresso, mascherato come capriccio.
Quindi dolore e finalmente amore e ricongiungimento, ma… ma il terzo tema di questo breve romanzo è lo scorrer del tempo, l’allontanamento dalla gioventù e l’avanzare dell’età che porta all’esito finale.
Quando l’attrazione non basta, quando l’amore non basta se non si arriva ad urlarlo al mondo, ma allora, che non sia amore?
A wonderful look at the cultural trappings that every society brings to the most natural and urgent of natural instincts - consequently and ironically well and truly "fucking" it up for just about everybody.I enjoyed "Gigi" and "Cheri" once I'd got my head around the sexual culture of certain segments of French Society of the Fin de Siecle.The Loneliness and yet High Social Profile of the Courtesan is well and truly captured by Colette.
And "true love"?Where exactly could that fit in in this cultural entanglement of status, wealth and survival?"Cheri" gives us a look at a love recognised in this milieu, but too late.
I think this was the wrong book for me at this time. However, it would never be a favorite as I found the pace too slow. Colette gives beautifully written descriptions so I can understand why some would appreciate her writing more than I did. As for the plot, I could relate to Léa (as I am also a woman of a certain age) but Chéri struck me as a lout and so I couldn't really understand his appeal.
Romanele astea Belle-Epoque (desi Cheri a fost publicat in 1920) au ceva aparte.
E o perioada in care femeile controleaza tot, dar o fac cu o feminitate iesita din comun, isi cunosc toate atuurile si au o eleganta aparte.
Desi in Cheri este vorba despre o fosta curtezana (adica o prostituata de lux) nu este nimic vulgar in ea, in dialogul ei.
Dar exista si "crapaturi" in discursul ei si iti dai seama ca nu face parte chiar din lumea buna.
Relatia cu Cheri este doar un paravan pentru a ascunde o durere mult mai mare.
TELL ME WHY!!' (I was very caps-locks-y throughout much of the book.)The romance was incredibly creepy to me because Colette establishes that Léa has known Chéri since he was a baby.
But now I get to the last twenty pages, because all is revealed and you can see what Colette was trying to do throughout the novel:(view spoiler)[As I've stated, in the last bit of the book you realize that Léa feels so spiteful towards all of these old women because she realizes that that is her destiny (I guess) and in particular she is hateful towards Edmée because she's jealous of her youth and beauty which allow her to keep Chéri.
It isn't badly written, but only if it were written quite differently would I really enjoy it.Chéri and Léa are difficult, unsympathetic characters - but this is a type I often find interesting to read about.
(I quite forgave myself for having abandoned this book after a few pages, some years ago.)As with difficult characters, it can be interesting to read about alien situations to gain a better understanding of them.
The May-to-September age gap between Chéri and Léa was clearly something open to ridicule at the time when the book was written, but these days it would be more scandalous because she had been a close friend of his mother's throughout his lifetime and had babysat him when he was a child.
This book is less than two hundred pages, yet I feel like I've known Charlotte, Léa, Chéri, and Edmée.
What I love most about this book is that it's less a story and more a portrait of a relationship.
I'm not fluent in French, so I didn't understand every single word I read.
I wanted to read and absorb the story as I could with my knowledge of French, and I was really able to understand a lot through the tone of Colette's writing.
I'm glad I read this book in French.
Lea takes the initiative in sending Cheri back to his young wife, bluntly reminding him that she is an aging woman whose charms for him are going to soon fade.
This sketchy outline of the plot hardly does justice to the commendable qualities of this 90 year old French novel that reads as if it were written today.
Colette has an extensive French vocabulary and if I were using a bound dictionary to look up even a fraction of the words I didn't know, I'd never finish the book.
In using the pointer on the built-in Kindle dictionary, the reading process was made much more efficient and time-saving.
Cheri by Colette, centers around Lea and Cheri and their six year love affair.
After Cheri's marriage they are separated for six months due to Lea's inability to cope with the new revelations.
It is obvious, by Colette's words how greatly they care for each other; but due to society's prejudice to people like her and the disturbing (at the time) age gap, thus any furthering of the relationship would seem impossible.
In the opening scene in the bedroom, has Cheri playing with a strand of pearls with Lea teasing him, setting a playful happy setting.
This light atmosphere she herself takes joy in does its best to mask everything that's going on under the hood of this novel, from its psychologically intricate characters, to the depth of observation she has, and of course the impeccable pacing and, dare I say, storytelling.
There is such a despairing novel going on while you're distracted by how quick and light it is.
Colette isn't super subtle about this, in fact she's dangling it in front of your face the entire time, but the fact is she knows exactly what she's doing, she knows her craft and how to use it.
Publié en 1920.Thème: l'amour entre une femme âgée et un jeune amant.
En effet, Colette, alors qu'elle venait de divorcer de son deuxième mari, eut une affaire avec le fils de ce dernier.
Chéri a toutefois été publié avant l'affaire.L'histoire est celle d'une courtisane, Léa, qui a cinquante ans.
Elle entretient Fred, surnommé Chéri depuis 7 ans.
Chéri, qui a maintenant vingt-cinq ans, doit se marier.
À l'heure de la séparation, les deux amants se rendent compte, qu'au delà de l'âge, ils sont ce qu'il y avait de mieux pour chacun, mais qu'irrémédiablement les années les séparent.
Chéri is one of Colette’s better known works, so I already knew the rough storyline before finally reading this, but as always her language is as much the attraction as her stories.
Now it’s time for Chéri to marry a suitable young lady, and in parting ways, both he and Léa must face their true feelings for one another, which have long been a source of irony and gentle rebuffs.
The story is told by Léa, who also has to face the reality of her age and the possibility that she can no longer attract beautiful young men.
романът на колет "шери" потвърждава клишето, че някои книги трябва да се прочетат в точното си време, за да ви "намерят.
да, ако я бях прочела, когато четях многобройните класики разказващи за увлечението на поодъртял пръч по някоя крехка козичка, колетовата "шери", щеше да уравновеси донякъде нещата.
казвам донякъде, защото авторката, като всяка дама е реалистично настроена и не си позволява да изкриви действителността, дори когато едно младо същество е преизпълнено с чувства, не може да не обърне внимание на разликата между свежата и повехналата красота.
другата тъжна особеност е че, икономически независимата жена дори хилядолетия след елада, все още си остава куртизанката.
O poveste de dragoste plină de melancolie, fericire şi suferinţă, care ţi se înfige în suflet în ciuda faptului că nu îţi poate oferi iluzia unui final de basm.
Slight but sensual, like a nice bath.
https://elmardeletras.blogspot.com/20...Qué puedo decir sobre Chéri.
Entre las páginas de Chéri se puede acariciar la textura de las telas, el olor de las flores y adivinar los colores del cielo.
Silbaba mientras se colocaba frente al espejo alargado, justo a su altura, como solía hacer en el que había entre las ventanas del dormitorio de Léa.
Puede que el reflejo del muchacho ya esté allí, en el espejo de Léa…».
Capta perfectamente la inmadurez de una vida de ricos despreocupados en una zona cara del París de los felices años 20.
Chéri es el momento exacto en que lo encuentras.
Me ha costado cogerle el punto, pero al final he caído rendida con Colette.
