https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28483.The_Seventh_Gate
I had faithfully read all the other books in the Death Gate Cycle, and tolerated the fluctuations in quality--ranging from the mesmerizingly melancholic meditation that was Fire Sea to the cheesy romantic fluff that was Elven Star.
(After all, this was a series, not a stand-alone novel.) What I found within Seventh Gate, however, was more of an outline than a satisfying conclusion.
The bottom line: I would still recommend this series for the interesting premise and for the volumes such as Fire Sea which were of higher quality (but which you can't really understand without reading the other books); just be forewarned that the ending will not be satisfying.
You know, whenever I'm lucky enough to find a reasonably literate person who has read some fantasy novels, I'm always surprised by the fact that - as far as I can recall - none of them have read The Death Gate Cycle.
Granted, I had some holdover nostalgia from the Dragonlance Chronicles for Weis and Hickman, and so I probably had more cause to read them than most, but, even solely on their own merits, these are really excellent books.
The real mastery, though, is in the novels' 5 distinct - geographically, sociologically, politically, ethnically - worlds.
This is a series which introduced my brother and me, as boys, to the core concepts of quantum mechanics and the uncertainty principle.
This is a series which meditates on the power hate can grant us, on the power fear holds over us, and on the terrible sacrifices things like love and faith and hope and trust demand.
This is also a series about the value of a friendly dog.This is the final volume, but it is not the end; the Wave is unending and the Wave acts to corrects itself.(If only the Wave had bothered to correct the bright, colourful, and entirely uncharacteristic covers of this and the preceding volume!)
This epic tale shows you the strengths and weakness of men and women alike, whose lives are interwoven so beautifully and inescapably, that it should bring us to deeper thought.
We might not live on four separate worlds, that need each other to survive; we only have one, which we all need to survive.
Imagine the runic magic special effects, just for a second… the tattoos, the dragons, the shapeshifting, the endless strong male and female characters, the physics of these worlds!I read this as a teenager, I've enjoyed re-reading them tremendously.
Se trata de una colección de libros en la que tiene cabida la reflexión sobre grandes temas pero que se sustenta, sobre todo, en unos personajes carismáticos, un universo rico y complejo y un ritmo narrativo adictivo que deja espacio suficiente a los detalles.En mi opinión, esta serie llega al listón de joya del género fantástico (con permiso de Sapkowski) ya que, a pesar de apoyarse en muchos de los estereotipos tradicionales, crea un nuevo espacio totalmente genuino.
Sin embargo, Weis y Hickman cierran este ciclo, marcándose una las sagas de fantasía épica más imaginativas que he leído.
No es una dragonada al uso, pues aunque los hay, así como elfos y enanos, logra construir mundos -y un universo- intrínseco y armado con lógica.Es además una historia que toca el tema de creerse a sí mismo superior sobre otros, acerca de la peligrosidad que acarrea acercarse demasiado a lo tecnológico -entendido aquí en un mundo fantástico- y perder tus capacidades más humanas en el proceso, todo por querer ser dios -o dioses-.La resolución tanto de la historia de Haplo, Alfred y el perro son más que satisfactorias, pero si en algunas sagas ruegas porque terminen pronto y no se vayan tanto por las ramas, aquí definitivamente hicieron falta páginas, aunque realmente todos los cabos sueltos quedan atados -eso sí, no escapa de ciertos recursos deus ex machina que afectan el producto final, el cual, no obstante, sigue siendo muy entretenido.
Amazed at the lessons to be learned from this book. It started out as an interesting Fantasy title that quickly turned "Science Fantasy" and evolved into a look into the human condition that was so well-planned and carefully executed to help you learn something while being entertained!
Awesome series!

How do you sew up an epic series of largely individual novels set on a variety of fantastic worlds?
Well Weis and Hickman's solution is with a slap-dash effort tying up the few sporadic threads.
This final novel is an immense failure, and if you view the series as a hole, really discredits the previous works.
I really enjoyed the previous six.
The first few I thought were especially strong.
The world building was great, as was the characterisation and they really had me gripped.
This final novel was meant to fizz and sparkle, but Weis and Hickman only delivered flat lemonade...
A wonderful end to a wonderful series of 7 books that is the Death Gate cycle. A portrayal of how destructive racism and prejudice can be and how tragic the consequences can become. This saga should not be missed by anyone who is an avid reader of fantasy.
It took me a while to read all of the books in this series, but it will always remain one of my favorites. It's such a powerful series in so many ways. <3
J'ai beaucoup aimé l'évolution d'Haplo qui a vraiment approfondit sa réflexion tout du long des livres et est arrivé à ne plus douter.
On sent bien que le but du livre est bien de faire passer un message sur les humains et la manière dont ils doivent coexister sans se prendre pour des dieux.
Et le fil rouge reliant Haplo et Alfred a permis de faire le lien entre toutes les histoires, nous tenant en haleine sur leur sort tout du long.Merci à Zaz de ne pas avoir lâché le morceau et m'avoir mis les livres dans les mains, ce fut un voyage vraiment extraordinaire.(et Zifnab est le meilleur perso de tous les temps :p)
Wat een reis is dit geweest.
In 2014 kwam ik dit deel tegen bij een Bookcrossing meeting en ik ben zo blij dat ik besloten heb eerst de andere delen te zoeken en lezen.
Het was een epische reis in heel creatieve werelden en met interessante personages.
Het las weg als een trein, maar waar ik bij de vorige delen nog wel eens had dat het wat langdradig kon zijn, had ik bij dit boek het gevoel dat het einde erg werd overhaast.
Ik heb echt genoten van deze serie en ik kan het iedere fantasy fan aanraden, maar begin alsjeblieft bij deel 1 en lees de hele serie voordat je aan deel 7 begint.
If you wanted to preach to us, do it outright and don’t waste our time.Here’s what should’ve happened…(view spoiler)[  Haplo should’ve died for real.They were building up to it for the entire story.
Deal with Xar before getting inside the Seventh Gate.It would have been much more meaningful if Haplo and Alfred had a moment of peace to decide what to do with the Seventh Gate on their own, instead of trying to fight some guy who shouldn’t have been there to begin with.
Review is for entire series.Re-readThe Deathgate Cycle is one of my favorite series ever.
Everything about it - all 7 books - are just...
high fantasy perfection.
It's one of few series that really go into HOW the magic of the world works.
And the primary protagonist, Haplo, is one of my favorites ever.
Maybe my very favorite.
- And the plot is perfect and perfectly executed.
Everything about this series is just...
Unless to say that I'd like another 7 books.
This book was just as good today as the first time I read way back in like...
Es inevitable pensar que en su final se van a precipitar las cosas cuando ves la cantidad de páginas que tiene este volumen si lo comparas con el resto de la saga.
En La Séptima Puerta veremos casi la misma cantidad de elementos narrativos que en los anteriores: giros, revelaciones, nuevas aportaciones…Esto lo debemos sumar a que se debe culminar una saga que cuenta con un extenso mundo fantástico.
Así que no entiendo el porqué de las prisas por contárnoslo.
Un mundo del que destaco a cada uno de sus personajes, especialmente la evolución de Alfred y Haplo, por supuesto.
Jakoś tak wyszło, że ostatnią część tego cyklu w pewnym momencie przestałam czytać i wróciłam do niej dopiero po 1,5 roku :P.
To nie znaczy, że mi się nie podobała, wręcz przeciwnie.
Cała seria naprawdę dobrze pomyślana: główni męscy bohaterowie do polubienia i nawet interesujący (kobiety - moim zdaniem - niestety wypadły w tym cyklu nieciekawie lub sztampowo) a świat niesamowicie wykreowany (no i te appendiksy!
Lubię jak autor stara się wprowadzić czytelnika w to, co stworzył a nie traktuje stworzone uniwersum jako jedynie ciekawe tło wydarzeń.
Tutaj autorom naprawdę zależało, żeby ten świat czytelnikom opisać i wytłumaczyć).
wow what a great series this death gate series turned out to be!!
love the way the seventh gate was excessed, hate and fear and insecurity never did work in the end not even in our own day to day lives!!
do not want to put spoilers in but the fact that in the end zifnab describes how all of us have the potential to be gods is for me the cherry on the cake!!
zifnab and his dragon and Alfred and himself as the golden dragon and haplo, and hugh the hand all turned out to be such great characters deserving of respect!!
This is a climax and a conclusion. The book gather points from all previous books and combine them into one glorious climax.This is not a perfect book or series, it's not complex and quite straight forward , unlike modern fantasy books. It's far better then modern YA series, and with all it's simplicity it's complex enough to stand it's own against modern fantasy books and it has more heart than some of them combined.
(A GAZILLION STARS FOR THE SERIES AS A WHOLE.)
Prestado por: Sergio
It was a nice change from the other worlds, and I really liked how we saw Haplo change in that book as well.One of the things that I thought was super cool about this series is the way culture was dealt with.
(Although to be fair to this series, this mild disconnect I feel with Marit and Haplo's relationship might be more indicative of my own bias, because the whole "man + woman = love ALWAYS" thing has always really bothered me in a lot of series, especially when you can see other characters way more on the same wavelength)All this being said, I can see why I remembered the series because, again, the parts I liked I thought were intriguing.
He is still that same mumbling fool from the first book even though he showed time and time again the incredible power he wields.(view spoiler)[Some answers are never answered – where is Haplo's daughter and have they found it?
(hide spoiler)]All in all, the book is not bad, and the series as a whole is incredible.
In a way it's actually a post-apocalyptic story (maybe even a SF) disguised as a fantasy which I thought was really clever.
He is actually more annoying than ever, if that's even possible.So… in the end, if you are looking for some cool fantasy with dragons and magic, cool worlds, interesting characters and world building, look no further than Death Gate cycle.
This book carried no different wave of appetizing writing.Where do you end a series that has had so much involved in it?
That was a question I continued to ask myself while reading through the book like an addict.
Finally it happened, I can say I am happy with the way it ended to a certain extent.
The ending now that I think about it, almost feels as though it was changed to fit a certain number of pages..
But the book itself was a quality read.
We finally got to see Alfred, completely resilient and willing to do what he needed to do to end the madness, and Haplo too.
The main characters -their motives, aims and personalities- are so well built, that you can connect with them since the first page.
Their suffering and desires become yours!!The world of the death gate cycle is not only marvellous, but also pretty original.
In a world where the magic is the central axis, the characters -even the most powerful- hardly use it.
In other words, magic is the general framework, but the everyday is not.
Intead, it is simple human not magical deals, betrayals, conspiracies and personal ambitions.In short, if you want to live a fantastic adventure, give the death gate cycle a chance
I really enjoyed this series, but I'm afraid I found the conclusion to be a bit lacking.
All of the worlds and characters, which made each novel unique, drawn together into an impressively ambitious and cohesive whole.
The character of Haplo (and generally the Patryn and Sartan) (view spoiler)[which very satisfyingly and realistically changed from black and white to grey over the course of the series (hide spoiler)].
It was definitely worth the read, and I consider it a classic work, but I'm afraid I really did find the ending lacking -- no wonder I remembered many plot points, but didn't remember the ending.
A semi-satisfying ending to a series I thoroughly enjoyed.
This series has its ups and downs in quality but the overarching plot, worldbuilding, and magic structure is superb.
In this final installment, Haplo and Alfred work together to save the four realms from the ambitions and fears of their prospective leaders, and the insidious evil that lurks in the worlds.
I wish there had been a bit more time and closure spent on the relations between patryns and sartan at the end of the novel, and a bit more closure to the higher power theme but over all I am not disappointed and yet not fully satisfied with the ending of the series.
The series culminates with everything that is good, as well as everything that is bad about Death's Gate.
I can sum it up in the same way as the series as a whole: rough, clumsy and stupid in parts, but with a lot of creativity, some very good characters with very good arcs, and surprisingly lofty ambitions for a pulp-y fantasy series.
After being really disappointed by Book 6, I was worried about rereading this one –– but now that I have, my opinion of the series as a whole stands.
My comments for the individual books follow:Vol. 1 -- Dragon Wing: This book covers the exploration of Arianus: the realm of Air. It introduces us to the two main characters (Haplo and Alfred) and many of the recurring characters throughout the series.
So, while reading the book, you constantly have this little voice in the back of your mind going "what's happening with Alfred?" Irritating.Vol. 6 -- Into the Labyrinth: This book ranges across just about all of the worlds of the Death Gate.
In Fire Sea, Haplo and Alfred use such a spell to replicate enough food for a large group of people.
