https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953490.The_Investigation
3.5
Si tuviese que elegir una palabra para definir este libro de Lem, sin lugar a dudas ésra sería "perturbador".Pertubadora es la historia que nos plantea.Perturbador el misterio escondido entre sus páginas.Perturbadores son TODOS y cada uno de los personajes que aparecen en ella.Y perturbador, MUY perturbador es el demoledor final de la misma...
Perhaps I could roughly describe the book as a cross between the science fiction of Philip K Dick, the philosophy of science and the nature of the world of David Hume, and the fiction/philosophy of Milan Kundera.
Hume used precise language and logical argumentation, and he also wrote modestly about what philosophy, reasoning and words can achieve.
Kundera walks the fiction/philosophy line by switching between story and thoughts.
Al principio simplemente eran cuerpos movidos, pero esto ha ido en aumento con la desaparición sin más de los cadáveres.
De este modo, Gregory se enfrenta a este gran problema, observando y analizando todos los datos de que dispone.‘La investigación’ (Sledztwo, 1959), del escritor polaco Stanislaw Lem, es una novela policíaca con tintes metafísicos y filosóficos.
La historia no me llega a convencer en ningún de estos apartados, siendo las partes que más me han gustado esas en las que el detective Gregory transita de noche por las calles, al igual que esos extraños ruidos nocturnos de su casa, todo ello muy kafkiano.
Stanislaw Lem, a man by turns hilarious, exceedingly reasonable and darkly satirical, was one of the mind's greatest critics. The Investigation strays from his usual Science Fiction genre and explores the Sherlock Holmes-inspired detective tale. Where Doyle was the champion of rational inquiry, Lem expresses the simple tragedy of this approach. Never a proponent of intuition, the mystical or divine, Lem nevertheless revels in describing the immutable wall reality presents human reason.Not quite the masterpiece Solaris is, The Investigation is still a wonderful and delightfully frustrating read. It is among Lem's most accessible works.
Demasiados diálogos y texto innecesarios para una historia plana.
7/10Elmi- fantastik janrın aristokratı Lemdən dedektiv/ elmi- fantastik üslubunda yazılmış, fəlsəfi suallar ortaya qoyan dialoqlarla, rasyonalist təfəkkürü yaratdığı obrazlar tərəfindən həm tərəfdar, həm tənqidçi qismində təhlil etdiyi bir romanı.Məzmun olaraq, roman Londondakı Scotland Yard- şəhərin Metropolitan Polis Təşkilatı qərargahı- polisinin ötən ildə şikayət olunmuş bir sıra eyni tipli hadisələrlə bağlı genişmiqyaslı tədbirlərin görülməsi üçün yığışan heyətin söhbətləri ilə başlayır.
Baş müfəttiş Sheppard, leytenant Gregory, bir başqa polis əməkdaşı Farquart, autopsiyadan Sorensen və baş müfəttişin bir qədər xahiş etdikdən sonra aralarına qatıldığı Dr. Sciss hadisəni araşdırmağa çalışırlar.
Baş müfəttiş Sheppard və Dr. Sciss ilə Gregory' nin dialoqları oxunmağa dəyərdir.Lemin dedektiv üslubunda sözügedən janrın klassik əsərlərinin üslubuna dair incə bir tənqidvari toxunuşları da var.
I found myself stuck in suspense, but I couldn't figure out whether Sciss was being sarcastic or not when he confessed.) I wasn't sure at the end about what was the truth was to the mystery of the "zombies" and the what those noises were at night (What type of woman makes so much noise caring for her husband?).
The reason it confused me so much may just be because the book wasn't designed for 14 year old girls.
I feel like this book contained a lot of insight on human nature.This wasn't the best book I read, but like I said before, I'll read it again in 5 years and then see what I think.
Lem wrote "The Investigation" from April 1957 to January 1958; in June of the next year he would begin writing "Solaris", his masterpiece. No wonder that some interesting philosophical (epistemological) questions elaborated in the later are already present in the former. In this novel, criminal investigation intertwines with scientific research, resulting in a frenetic whirlwind that compromises the structure of the method itself, the same as Kurt Gödel did with mathematics in his seminal work from 1931, "On Formally Undecidable Propositions Of Principia Mathematica And Related Systems". Read Lem's novel carefully: you will not be disappointed.
Tenía mucha expectativa con esta historia pero hacia la mitad comienza a dar vueltas inútiles y el final me decepcionó un poco. Me molestó que conocemos hasta los pensamientos mas triviales del investigador, pero en el momento en que tiene algún tipo de plan para engañar al sospechoso no nos lo cuenta! lo sentí como una trampa del autor. Claramente la idea del libro sigue la linea de The Chain of Chance (La Fiebre del Heno), pero esa historia está muchísimo mejor resuelta.
Seems to be the pattern with most of what I've read recently. Started promising and intriguing. Lost its way in the middle. Got confusing. And the ending left something to be desired. Just a little better than okay.
More of an investigation of philosophical questions than a who done it. Is there a God? Does he make his presence felt only on occasions? Gregory, the detective, rents a room in a home with landlords that are strange even by my standards. The settings in this novel are macabre. Gregory’s leading suspect Sciss uses statistics to create and support his odd theories. Sciss does seem to be the type to move corpses around and steal them.
Esta novela es como una patata apetecible que al final se grilla. El misterio no se resuelve, pero Lem tiene aquí una prosa poderosa.
The creepy part really starts when the scientist comes up with a mathematical formula that points towards the bodies coming back to life.Of course this brings an enormous amount of stress onto the young investigator, and things get complicated further by odd and distressing noises coming from his own landlord's apartment at night.Lem writes this with a flair for the macabre and the noir.
In the end we are left thinking about the chaotic nature of the universe, and the fact that sometimes things just don't make sense, no matter how hard we try to fit the pieces together.
При этом через день или два их начавшие разлагаться тела все же находят где-нибудь на местных пустошах.
По этой причине практически каждое его новое произведение – это набор эффектных, но, как правило, совершенно необязательных измышлений на тему природы Хаоса и прочих плоскостей Бытия.
При этом если у его произведения есть какой-либо внятный конец, то он обязательно плохой.
Если же не плохой, то это, как правило, выглядит еще более пессимистично.“Расследование” – это тот самый редкий случай, когда все вышеперечисленное книге вполне идет.
Если бы я прочел его еще где-нибудь при “совке”, то, наверное, изрядно был бы впечатлен.
Lem’s American publishers package The Investigation as they do his science fiction novels, but this is Lem’s variation on the British mystery.
Then again, the search for a deranged perpetrator strikes both Lt. Gregory of Scotland Yard and Harvey Sciss, a brilliant, eccentric statistician, as a dead end.
As Sciss says, “This is not a criminal investigation.
Sciss is comfortable with such conclusion asSince human reason isn’t capable of understanding everything, it’s irrelevant whether or not this explanation makes sense.Gregory cannot take things so lightly.
The Investigation is unmistakable Stanslaw Lem, but it is not science fiction.
Highly original mystery will intrigue the curiousFor years I'd heard a lot about Stanislaw Lem as a great Polish science fiction writer, maybe one of the world's greats in that field, but I hadn't ever read him.
But, I must report that I still haven't read any of his science-fiction because THE INVESTIGATION turns out to be one of his few works in other genres.
I can't say that this is a characteristic Lem novel because it's the first I ever read.
It's about perception and how perception is its own reality.* The description on the back of my paperback says, "To unravel the mystery Lieutenant Gregory consults scientific, philosophical, and theological experts, who supply him with a host of theories and clues." This is one of those ad copy lies I enjoy pointing out.
In fact, it's a particularly ironic lie, in that it implies a degree of organization in his methodology that Gregory himself rejects, even if only because he's incapable of it.* Still, the various theories are presented, though not often in great depth.
Ressenya en català (2003):http://www.elkraken.com/R-investigaci...Reseña en castellano (2003):http://www.elkraken.com/Esp/R-lnvesti...
After reading Solaris, and loving nearly every page of it, I decided to read the rest of Stanislaw Lem's books in my roommate's collection.
The Investigation is the second of those books.
Unfortunately, the premise is as good as the book gets.
On a deeper level, a Scotland Yard detective and a brilliant mathematician seek to unravel the nature of truth.
In The Investigation, the characters fall flat just like the story.
Even their dialogue seems nonsensical at best.If you're looking for a great sci-fi read, or one of Lem's best, skip this book.
Los diálogos entre Gregory y el resto del séquito que lleva a cabo la investigación son memorables, girando alrededor de temas tan diversos como la búsqueda de aquello que nos hace humanos o discusiones sobre como afrontar una investigación científica.
Una historia en la que Lem especula sobre como comprendemos lo que observamos, como configura nuestros mundos cognoscitivos.
La investigación es una novela muy sugerente, tensa y angustiosa, donde lo que importa no es el caso a resolver, sino todo el proceso de investigación que conlleva y como aproximarnos a el.
(The base of this review is the German translation published by Suhrkamp)A thought provoking book that leaves your mind racing and thinking about what you read until you (hopefully) realize that it is not really a crime novel at all but much rather a philosophical discourse about reality and our perception and interpretation of it.
If you can forgive the fact that it is only masquerading as a crime story, this is a book that you will want to read again, but pay more attention to the things you might have rushed past the first time you read it.
A Scotland Yard detective is assigned to discover what has happened to them.
Or have these corpses been reanimated by some otherworldly influence?Stanislaw Lem creates a solid, bizarre world in which the reader is never really sure what is real and what is imagined.
The detective must grapple with his own understanding of faith and science.
It is a quirky book that has very little action, yet keeps you drawn in to this macabre world.
I look forward to trying more books by this Polish author.
More a novel about science - statistics, anyway - than a SF novel, 'The Investigation' is a compelling mystery about seemingly reanimated corpses. Unlike a lot of SF a person can find, the characters were well-drawn, and like everything else in this short novel, do not fill the usual formula of paint by numbers genre pieces. This is my first Lem novel, so I'm not sure how common a lot of the elements in it are; however, there's a bit of philosophy touched on here. Not for those who dislike thinking.
This began as a sort of off-beat police procedural with a not-too bright copper trying desperately to seem smarter than he is and to come up with something other than a supernatural explanation for the dead bodies being moved around and then seemingly climbing out windows into the wider world. That was the book I loved and couldn't put down but it didn't last for long enough...it unwound into soliloquies and long rather absurd conversations that hover on the edge of depth but don't always and entirely manage it.
Novela policíaca sí, pero con el inconfundible toque fantástico y filosófico del maestro.
Interesting mix of data science and investigation procedures! But I found it hard to fully understand author's purpose. Anyway - Lem is Lem.
A great start and a strong middle, but ultimately fails to resolve with a good enough payoff. If you like the idea of a Lem-universe detective story, read "The Chain of Chance", which is far better.
Когда припоминаешь, в каких жанрах он писал, и чего касался, то ясно, что если до мыслителей золотого века он, может быть, и не дотянул бы, но всё же им было бы совсем не стыдно стоять рядом.Я неустанно напомню о полном игнорировании «Суммы технологий», изданной в 1964 году и переведённой на английский язык ПЯТЬДЕСЯТ лет спустя.
Напомню, там разбираются по косточкам и потрошатся такие «новые» темы, как трансгуманизм, автоэволюция, погружение в виртуальную реальность при помощи нейроинтерфейсов (некоторые считают, что именно Лем ввёл это понятие своей фантоматикой) и искусственный интеллект.
В доброй старой Англии реальность точно такая же — добрая и старая, как калитка, открывающаяся со скрипом и сияющая медная дверная ручка.Однако я не думаю, что на свете есть человек, начинающий читать Лема именно с этой повести.
There are many scenes that appear to have nothing to do with the story but actually do because this is a book about the absurdities we encounter in life and how we try to explain everything either by science or in some concrete manner.The narrative while not in first person, takes place in the head of Lieutenant Gregory who seems almost detached from reality and as a result, a lot of this comes across as kind of a languid dream.I really liked this book and the ending to me made perfect sense and actually was proposed early in the book, but to me, this is fun story-telling.People might want to find another edition of this book because it is full of typos like there was no editor or anybody proofing it.
