https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32510.Shakespeare_s_Champion
There are certain books that haven't appealed to me because of the descriptions of the main character's hobby or job because in order to make the character "real", we need to see them doing these things with details on the activity.
I have no problem with these things, exactly, but I find it dull to read about the minutia of doing them.It's a sickness..So, get used to the idea of reading about every rep she does at the gym and the order in which she cleans houses every few pages and you will be good.This story is super racially-charged.
Thank you, murder!This time around, I didn't figure out anything before it was revealed except that Jared (view spoiler)[ (Jack) was probably a detective of some kind and not a baddie.
(view spoiler)[ I'm glad Marshall didn't last long, I felt briefly sorry for Claude (Claude and Marshall are not good names for the male romantic lead anyway-that was bugging me.
Even though things with Jack moved alarmingly fast, I did like him as a love interest)  (hide spoiler)] Even that doesn't really bother me to any great extent, because I like Lily so much, and the mysteries have been good so far.
I was thinking about it after and there are two women of roughly Lily's age who aren't dismissed as slutty, and one of them is (view spoiler)[another rape victim (hide spoiler)], and the other the never-described-as-in-any-way-sexy but certainly dedicated town doctor, Carrie.
There's more that's problematic here though, starting with Lily's saying something about how she had been comfortable with the slow pace of change in Shakespeare, as things were pretty okay; some of the black people had good jobs and even nice houses.
(view spoiler)[ I could think of no reason for Mookie to die, except for her to be hanging onto life just in order to talk to Lily.
Kind of annoying when, as you're reading the first part of a book, you are thinking it's a four-star read, but in the second half it bumps itself down to three stars.First - it's a small thing, but I was surprised and a bit bummed everyone in town found out her secret since the last book.
And then enters a third guy who Lily is actually interested in, while I myself am sitting there thinking, what the bloody hell?
I don't think the pull of this one was a genuine mystery, but instead...well, not sure, I guess just a good story.
(hide spoiler)]It’s a treat to read about a woman who can protect herself and develop her strength to overcome past trauma.
However, I’m a bit disturbed by her current love-interest, who also has a traumatic past, knows Lily’s situation, and seems drawn to her because of it.
I’m also hoping that Lily can come out of her hard, protective shell a bit more.
There is true potential for this series to pass the Bechdel test.On the other hand, after protecting her personal secrets in book one, all of a sudden it seems that everyone and their pet cat knows about Lily’s past in this book.
This mystery was more promising and more entertaining than the the first, but I found myself deeply troubled by Harris's creation of a strong female character who has the desire to do right (and who always ultimately does the right thing), but has fundamental problems with being labeled an "activist." Certainly, when Lily intervenes to save a young African American man who is being publicly beaten by a gang of white (supremacist) boys she acts knowing that the beating is racially motivated.
I find it problematic that our fictional heroines, our "strong" female characters can maintain that strength only if it is circumstantial and situational.
Digging into my mystery book stacks, basically choosing the books by blindly picking a random one I came across this second part of a series by Charlaine Harris.
I finished the book in one sitting and after I put the book away I simply had to run to the computer and check on other works by Charlaine Harris.
Imagine my surprise to find out she's the one behind True Blood and the Sookie Stackhouse books!?In short: The Lily Bard Omnibus with all five books of the series will have to go on my wishlist.
I discovered this series late last year when I was reading some books dealing with Christmas.
I am nearly compulsive about starting a series with the first book, but SHAKESPEARE'S CHRISTMAS is the third book of this series.
I enjoyed it so much, I have now gone back to read the first two and will continue with the others.
Lily Bard is an interesting woman who is recovering from a violent physical attack, and has chosen to live quietly supporting herself by cleaning houses.
I really do like the series, and the audio is very well done
This is the second book in The Lily Bard Mysteries Omnibus, and I enjoyed it as much as the first one.
She's content with her job, enjoys keeping other people's homes tidy and making money for herself.
Her personal life isn't so tidy, though.She's been seeing Marshall, the gym owner, but things aren't going so well so she distances herself from him.
As it's clear that a lot of racial tension is growing within Shakespeare and a lot of people are going to get hurt, unless the small group is captured.Shakespeare's Champion is another interesting mystery book that hooked me from the very beginning.
Shakespeare's Champion4.5 StarsStill waters run deep in Shakespeare, Arkansas and when Lily Bard finds the corpse of the local body building champion, little does she know that the discovery will uncover a web of the most heinous evil in her seemingly innocuous small town.
In terms of the romance, there is a significant improvement as Lily parts ways with her uninspired love interest from book #1 and closes the door on another potential beau (which was a little disappointing as he is quite sweet).
(view spoiler)[This bugs me.
Every time Lily reveals her past to a man, this happens:Lily: So, Man I Do Not Even Have a Close Friendship With, here is my matter-of-fact story of why I have boundaries and won't let you push.
And I want Lily to be all, OMG, are you for real?
How dare you not use your words and ASK if I would like be closer to you, especially after what I just told you five minutes ago?But that doesn't happen and that makes me ARG.
The way Lily thinks of Deedra is just gross.
(hide spoiler)]
I like Lily Bard a lot.
Lily Bard ends up caught in an investigation into a group trying to form a white supremacist militia.
This was written 20 years ago and I don't suppose it's any better.
I think my awareness of this ugliness is heightened by the current political climate.
I don't think it will get any better any time soon.I did enjoy this but not as much as the first one.
I did like that Claude moved on to someone new in short order.
I'm not sure where the next book will end up.
The first part of the book was quite good, I did consider (for a moment) giving it 4 stars, later on settling for 3, but as you can see in the end well... at least it is more than one star, right? Let's look at this in a positive way - I didn't hate it. But did I like this one? Honestly, I don't have an answer to that.
Lily stumbles upon a fellow resident, Del Packard, dead inside Body Time.
Times are tense in Shakespeare, and Lily is seeing many people for who they really are.
Funny that he should end up in Shakespeare,(view spoiler)[but if you've read Harris' Sookie series, specifically Dead Until Dark, you pretty much know what happens with Lily and this mysterious new man.
I didn't think it was THE Lily because of the Leeds part, but after meeting Jack Leeds in this book, it all becomes clear.) (hide spoiler)]No matter that I know what happens, I enjoy this series enough to figure out how they get there.
At first it's written off as an accident (the body found suffocated under the weight of a barbell), but later it appears to be a part of a larger series of racially motivated crimes.This is by far the worst of Charlaine Harris's books I've read.
The beginning of the book feels true to the first book in Lily Bard series, but gradually the story just gets simply out of control.
The racial element although compelling just comes out of nowhere and is way overdone.
Lily in a matter of days becomes a sex kitten every man in town lusts after.
I listened to this book every second I could!
This book was a maze of mystery!
One thing I didn't get...there was a semi backstory about Jack but it wasn't enough for me.
It so did not explain why Lily immediately felt so close to him...when he was just another scandalized Memphis-ite.
I didn't see their previous connection, it wasn't explained well enough so that whole situation felt odd.
The Winthrops are quite a mystery even after this whole debacle.
The events in this book are horrifyingly real.
Ready for book 3!
Well I do love Charlaine Harris books it's official!
Another enjoyable story with Lily at the centre despite her not wanting to be and some changes in her love life too (not going to spoil that!).It's not high brow literature but it's a great read and has me wanting to devour the whole book in one sitting.
They are short books but that's ok with me as there's enough to sustain my interest and leave me wanting more.I can't wait to read the next one and the next and the next.
I officially love this series.Lily Bard is for sure the most badass woman in the world, the only flaw she has is that she seems to be a magnet for dead bodies...
He's also as damaged and Lily herself.This book is packed with action and it is not disappointing in any way.
It never felt short in the end and it doesn't seem to pack all the action in 3 pages nor it rushes it.
It is very well written as it is to expect from the author.I'm excited about what comes next in this series.

I don't usually mind dark heroines, especially all that she's been through, but boy-o-boy this woman is so depressing.
She rarely smiles, gives short curt answers to normal questions and still has men throwing themselves at her.
I'm not sure Jack is good for her.
uber male with no sweetness.
Actually now that I think about it, he's like a male Lily.
Don't opposites attract?
I'll just see how this relationship goes in the next book.
I'm going to take a Lily Bard break and listen to the Sookie Stackhouse series instead.
I need something to liven me up.
This is the second book in the Lily Bard Mystery series. I'm really beginning to like Lily cuz she kicks ass! :P Granted, I may not always agree with her "need to be alone" attitude but I can understand where it comes from. Like the other reviewers, I liked this one a bit more than the first one as there was definitely more action here, and more setup there.
I quite like Lily, and I like how Harris creates these small town USA locations with a dark side.This book was pretty slow, and there were some pretty shocking small-minded characters, but I had to keep reminding myself of the book setting and when it was written. The audio narrator does a great job, and I enjoy listening to this on the commute. A pretty solid addition to the series, and I will continue on to book 3 as I've become invested in Lily's future ;)
I was surprised when I realized the main topic of this would be racial ignorance, but I loved how it was handled. There were some great surprises and some really powerful visuals given. And I love the new character introduced, Jack. Seems like I love everyone who has that name.
There is something about this book that I didn't like as much as the first. I kept wondering if I missed a book. Thing were explained later but it was disconcerting. Now I will know what to expect from the next book.
Another fun, quick mystery from Harris. I'm liking Lily better all the time. She's a little weird, but she beats the rest of Harris' heroines hands down, including Sookie.
BOBO! 😭
This was diverting, but I didn't particularly like it.
Even though I know that it's supposed to be a fun genre book, I couldn't really get past my ehhh/cringe feelings when Charlaine Harris attempts to involve the creation of an armed white white supremacist militia and a freaking black church bombing as narrative elements without the nuanced prose to pull it off.
The line "I get hard every time I see you" followed by unsolicited under clothing chest groping is seduction at its finest...This is only my third Charlaine Harris book, so maybe she's just not for me.
Shakespeare's Champion by Charlaine Harris is the second book of the Lily Bard mystery series set in contemporary Shakespeare, Arkansas.
Lily is an extremely private person.
She cleans houses by day, often walks through the town late at night.A fellow body-builder at her gym is murdered just before his chance at a championship.
Lily is saddened by the increasing violent racism in her town.
She begins to investigate covertly as she cleans houses, and discovers links between the crimes.
As suspense mounts, her actions inevitably lead to a violent confrontation with a gang of amoral thugs.
There are parts of this book that are so disjointed, they almost seem like they come from completely different texts. However, the main story—several murders take place in Shakespeare, and, per usual, Lily stumbles into the center of it—is interesting, and even unexpected at times. I read this for the first time in 2012, and while my memory is bad, I think it still says something about a book when I cannot remember any of it.
It's the second Lily Bard I've read, and I'm still not sure if I like her.
