https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77391.Anne_of_Ingleside
Anne has become a secondary character....in her own book. So hopping mad right now.  Like she was literally shuffled off to the side in ANNE of Ingleside. And what do we get is a book following her myriad of precocious (read: annoying) children. Seriously, every child is so pious, truthful, kind and considerate that it makes me want to gag.I firmly believe that this is not the same Anne of Green Gables. She's been replaced body-snatcher style. All personality and whimsy was ironed out, and we ar
And what do we get is a book following her myriad of precocious (read: annoying) children.
Instead of following Anne and her life, we get a series of almost-vignettes where each of her six children goes on an adventure and learns a life lesson.And yes, some of the adventures are fun - in particular, Rilla being absolutely mortified by the thought of having to carry a cake to the church was amusing (though, reading her lisp was painful).
I read this story because I loved Anne, and we just don't see her all that much.
The book focuses mainly on the trials and tribulations of her incredibly moral children and the town gossip, and we've lost some of the best characters like Rachel Lynde, Marilla, Davy, etc by this time as well.I felt myself "hankering" after Avolea and the Anne that was before she married...It just sort of dragged by with description after description of the seasons, the house, the nosy housekeeper...LMM just didn't keep Anne ANNE if you know what I mean.
so, if you want to read about a redheaded woman respected by all as she wanders into middle age with her half-dozen kids and their gigantic house full of luxuries missing from most people in her village, have at it.
Anne becomes little more than a peripheral character in the last two books in the series, as her exploits are now limited to her role as a wife and mother; a necessary shift, true, but it provides less "scope for the imagination." But in the meantime, there's plenty to love in this go round.
My favorite part was housekeeper Susan's schemes to rid the Blythes of a guest who will not leave:"That woman came here in June and it is my opinion she means to stay here the rest of her life."You'll never guess what finally nudges the old bat out the door!The book ends with Anne making a nocturnal assessment of her sleeping family, admiring her children, and counting her blessings.
I'm sad to say that I'm done with this series.
Where has Anne gone?
I wanted her to evolve into a badass feminist who stopped stereotyping and was progressive, not someone who gave up on her dreams to become a housewife.
Each sequel has let me down and I wish I had stopped after book one because it is truly the only treasure in the series.
Many of the subsequent books lack any sort of direction or plot and are just ramblings of old people going on and on and on and on about nothing and being bitchy.
V. sad.
2.5 stars. I think I liked the idea of reading another story about these characters more than I actually liked anything that happened here. Anne lost her muchness and became a dull matron preoccupied with jealous imaginings. A good chunk of the story was just silly. I'm kind of glad the series ends here... the first book is still my favorite by far.

The next book in the true Anne of Green Gables series and weirdly my least favorite of the books.
We meet Anne and Gilbert many years later and Anne has quite the brood now.
She has 5 children and the love of her life, what could possibly go wrong?I miss Anne's antics in this book.
We get to meet some of her children- Jem, Walter, Nan, and Diana oh and baby Bertha Marilla (really?).
They are adorable and some of their adventures had memories of Anne's beginnings, but I missed Anne in this book.
I did fall in love with the little cat named Shrimp.
I was truly disappointed.I've read an love Anne of Green Gables for so many years that it never occurred me that I would not love all of these books.I remember reading these books as a kid and loving every second I spent with Anne, I also remember that the "grown-up" books weren't to my liking, I really didn't like Anne growing up when I was young.
Back then I though it's because she was a grown women, but today I get why I might not have like this particular book when I was younger.It is so repetitive and unimaginative.
It's like Montgomery just wrote it to write another book.
Full (mini) review now posted!It’s fun to watch someone grow from a child into an adult with children of their own.
She is a wife settled into her marriage, and is now the mother of a whole passel of children.
This group of kids is incredibly varied in looks and personality, but they’re all children of imagination and character, like their parents.
This book is mainly a collection of tales in the children’s lives, though there are still stories from Anne’s perspective, as well.
It honestly felt more like a collection short stories than an actual novel, but it was still very enjoyable.
Every story was entertaining and funny.
I just didn’t like feeling the sad nostalgia right at the beginning of the book.Another thing that landed on the negative side for me was that, usually, I enjoy the colorful personalities of the secondary characters in the Anne books.
I hated her negative, controlling, manipulative attitude, especially the fact that she, who didn’t have kids, thought she knew so much better than Anne and Gilbert how to raise the Ingleside kids, and even slapped one of the girls at one point.
That was the world I wanted to live in, Prince Edward Island, nature and small society, fully equipped with imagination.
I want the writer to see more than I see in human nature, not less.
I don't want a writer only to see my point of view - I recognize that I need more than just the same ways of seeing the world.
Was Montgomery capable of writing other than of herself?
You want to go back and feel the times past as they felt then, and belong to a world that felt just about perfect when you were there.
Ok so I finished this about a month ago maybe and I'm only just now getting to writing a review haha, but Goodreads won't let me enter the finished date for some reason...The only date that works is today's date which is kind of strange lol Oh well XD I know y'all probably don't care about that hahaI really enjoyed reading this at a slower pace and carrying it around everywhere with me at college.
I felt like it was a good thing that I read it slower so I could appreciate the story more...I was also pretty busy the times I wasn't reading it, but it was nice every once and a while to slow down and de-stress with this good book!
Very highly recommend! It's a lot about Anne's family in general, but her children are the most adorable ever and I loved seeing Anne interact with Gilbert once more (because I've probably, with no exaggeration, read books about Anne 50 times. I don't even feel guilty about it). If you've read and loved Anne of Green Gables, I would strongly recommend the entire series, because although they can't have the magical perfection of the first book, they're all amazing and filled with gorgeous characters.
The author has difficulty making it clear who her audience is.
Is it children who want stories about other children, or is it people who have grown up with Anne and want to know more about her ongoing life?
As the book begins, it seems to be the latter audience, but it soon becomes clear it's the former.
She starts this book in Avonlea, and we see Anne's childhood friend Diana.
The anecdotes about Anne's children are moderately entertaining, but perhaps not as much so as stories in the other novels.
Pretty boring, the only somewhat interesting part was at the end when Anne out of nowhere turned into a jealous, shrewish cow.
Though her descriptive passages of view and season are stunning as ever, that's about all that can be said for this work.I am rather troubled by a tendency of reviewers here to criticize the character of Anne by railing against their perception of how poorly she performs her gender role without putting it into historical context.
باورم نمیشه آنهی کوچک من انقدر بزرگ شده و شش تا بچه داره. این کتاب بیشتر از اونکه دربارهی آنه باشه دربارهی بچههاش بود، به جز دو سه فصل آخر که آنه احساس میکرد گیلبرت بهش بیتوجه شده و متوجه شد سنش داره میره بالا. این دو سه فصل از تمام کتاب برای من دوستداشتنیتر و قابل لمستر بود و دوباره احساس کردم دارم کتابی میخونم که قهرمانش دختری مو قرمز به نام آنه است نه بچههاش.
باورم نمیشه آنه‌ی کوچک من انقدر بزرگ شده و شش تا بچه داره. این کتاب بیشتر از اونکه درباره‌ی آنه باشه درباره‌ی بچه‌هاش بود، به جز دو سه فصل آخر که آنه احساس می‌کرد گیلبرت بهش بی‌توجه شده و متوجه شد سنش داره میره بالا. این دو سه فصل از تمام کتاب برای من دوست‌داشتنی‌تر و قابل لمس‌تر بود و دوباره احساس کردم دارم کتابی می‌خونم که قهرمانش دختری مو قرمز به نام آنه است نه بچه‌هاش.
This is the last book in the Anne of Green Gables series that still feels like an Anne book. The next two, are really more about Annes children and their playmates, the Merediths.Annes children are wonderful, but I still love her best. Some friends have expressed dissapointed at finding Anne grown up and "settled down". I dont. Married life, with its ups and downs, is still as filled with adventure as childhood, only now the adventures are different.I believe the Ingleside children's stories wer
And at the end of each Ingleside story, there was always Anne, comforting the little lad or maiden whose turn it was in the spotlight.Like all the Anne books, this one left me wriggling with joy as I reread those passages I know almost by heart.
I loved the first and last chapters- the picnic with Diana remembering old days was wonderful, there I could still see the dear fanciful Anne I love and that vanishes unexpectedly in the last two books.
You see, I read Anne of Ingleside before Rilla of Ingleside and didn´t get a clue about what was to come.END OF SPOILER Overall, this is a delicious read I highly reccommend to everyone.
The last Anne book...
The book is filled with short stories about her children and seasons that come and go all too quickly.
But it may as well not be under the Anne title.
In my personal world Anne of Green Gables is a 5 book affair.Throughout the entire series I was waiting eagerly for some expression on Anne's part of her love and gratitude toward Marilla.
Yes, I can say to myself that Marilla's influence was too great, too obvious, for Anne to even attempt to express in words.
Still it is sad that Anne never acknowledges Marilla as her mother.
least favorite book in the series.این کتاب نشون میده که نویسنده نمیتونه فراتر از زمان خودش باشه.
Anne and her delightful children.
And she's living such a life, but still she has her moments!!
Dear Anne.
I love every one of these books, and Lucy Maud never lost anything when continuing Anne's story for us to enjoy!
I could read her books for ages, but then I would have to stop because I would be so inspired to write something, anything, that I wouldn't be able to contain myself!
Miss Cornelia is a delight!
And then there are such sad moments, too!
She has captured Anne, Anne is no longer a character, but a living, breathing soul in the universe for us all to know and be friends with.
3.5 tähteäIhanahan tämäkin on, mutta ei millään muotoa Anna-kirjoista paras. Huomaa, että tämä on kirjoitettu myöhemmin täydentämään sarjassa olevia aukkoja, sillä juuri täydennysosa tämä olikin. Kivasti tosin viittauksia Kotikunnaan Rillaan... <3 Montgomery kuvaa kyllä loistavasti erilaisia persoonallisuuksia, Annan perheen kanssa hykerteli useaan otteeseen.
2.5** This is the sixth book in the series that follows the irrepressible Anne Shirley as she grows from a young orphan to adulthood.
NOTE: Spoilers ahead if you haven’t read this far in the seriesThis book focuses on Anne and Gilbert’s six children, who seem to all share their mother’s gift of imagination and tendency toward fantasy.
Their dear mother, Anne, as well as housekeeper Susan hold the book together.
However, I really missed Anne in most of the book.
But, I read the earlier books in the series for Anne, and she wasn’t as prevalent in this episode.
I'm currently on the last of the "Anne" titled books and there is something that is funny/frustrating to me.Anne and Diana are talking and it mentions how Diana is 'matronly' looking i.e. chubby.
(Now remember this is like 15 years later, so the girls are 30-ish.) And how Diana has always been not-thin etc.
When the first baby was due in House of Dreams it talked about how Anne was looking forward to a 'much expected time'.
I wonder if this was just because the books were written for children, or was life really like that with no mention of pregnancy except a 'delicate issue' here or there?
Aside from this horrible change, I still thoroughly enjoyed this book.
It was wonderful to get to know Anne's children.
Although, not one of them captures that same personality as Anne possessed as a child, and even adult.
Walter, you are my favorite Blythe child.
Pure and simple bratty-ness!
But, let's admit, cute and hilarious, not matter how bratty!
There's just something, some air, about you that makes me feel so sorry for you!
You're not like the other Blythe children.
Aside from the fact that I felt Anne growing distant in this one, I do really, truly love this book!
چند صفحه بيشتر نخوانده بودم كه فهميدم از آخرِ كتابِ قبلى تا اين كتاب آنه علاوه بر جم صاحب ٤ بچه ى ديگر هم شده.شوكِ بزرگى بود.
اين شد كه براى چند روز حتى نزديكِ كتاب نشدم.
تا وقتى كه با آن كنار بيايم.اما كم كم جالب شد، ماجراى ٦ بچه ى آنه شرلى يا همان آنه بلايت.تقريبا حضورِ آنه در اين كتاب (به جز دو قسمت آخر و كمى از فصل هاى اول) كم و منحصر به مادرى دلسوز است.
The least good in the series so far. I've read a few bad reviews about it so I didn't go in with very high expectations. Also I read somewhere that L.M Montgomery had to write this book even though she didn't want to and I can feel that throughout the book. The book somehow lost Anne and the feeling which had been through previous books. I'm not sure if I will continue the series considering now it's more focus on Anne's and Gilberts children.
Still just as charming as ever. However, there were a few parts that just seemed to drag on and on. I found myself skimming during the quilting bee when all the women were sharing gossip about a bunch of people I didn't know or care to know. The stories of the adventures of Anne's children were the stars of the show with this book.
Walter, the sensitive second son, has a starring role in an early chapter: He walks six miles home in the darkness because he is convinced that his mother is dying.
Nan, the most imaginative child, does get herself into an emotional bind (just as her mother did) when she begins thinking she can bargain with God. The most satisfying scene in the book is, by far, the last one.
Although I enjoyed the ending, I did think it meant that the book felt like it was intended for two different readers: those who enjoy the children's scenes may not have much sympathy for Anne's crisis of confidence, and also vice versa.
Walter, the sensitive second son, has a starring role in an early chapter: He walks six miles home in the darkness because he is convinced that his mother is dying.
Nan, the most imaginative child, does get herself into an emotional bind (just as her mother did) when she begins thinking she can bargain with God. The most satisfying scene in the book is, by far, the last one.
Although I enjoyed the ending, I did think it meant that the book felt like it was intended for two different readers: those who enjoy the children's scenes may not have much sympathy for Anne's crisis of confidence, and also vice versa.
