https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865114.Sodome_et_Gomorrhe_II
I often think in visual terms and I imagine Sodome et Gomorrhe, which is the fourth book of the seven volumes of Proust’s Recherche, as the apex of an isosceles triangle, or like the gable of the house in the foreground of this (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]Sodome et Gomorrhe is the middle volume, pivotal in many ways, and Proust has been working towards this point from the first volume, laying down his themes layer by layer until he reached this twin chimney stack of Sodome and Gomorrhe.
I imagine Sodome and Gomorrhe like the two semi-ruined constructions in the background of this ever useful image (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)].
Sodome et Gomorrhe by Marcel ProustAs mentioned in my previous notes, “reviews” on A La Recherche du Temps Perdu, Proust is my Favorite, Number One of All Time writer.
At the time when I had my first encounter with Sodome et Gomorrhe, I did not know Proust was gay.
My perspective on Sodome et Gomorrhe changed dramatically; in fact, I have a different view on Proust.
I remembered now that I was not keen on the subject of this novel and happy that the book is so complex and treats so many subjects in such an exquisite way.Romania gets mentioned with its queen, her pen name being Carmen Silva.
Finished also CD #74 of the Audio book, out of a total of 111.
4,5Archi-fan. J'adore ces balades en petit train et ces interminables considérations!
Back then he comments on the fact that this particular occurrence will bring him a great deal of pain later on – he was referring to this moment, to Albertine revealing she knows them.
Of course this brings back Marcels love for Albertine full force; it’s only when he trusts her, believes her to not deceive him, when he thinks he knows her, that he tires of her.
The moment it’s hinted there may be something he doesn’t know, that she could live a life outside of his vision, his imagination, he loves her again.
The tales & adventures of Baby Proust continue...
and continue...
Honestly, I love this series, it's like a good friend you can catch up with every few months and who always has fun gossip.
The books read like the Real Housewives of the Belle Epoque, but also sound like the (self-aware?
There was a strange and unpleasant shortage of Saint-Loup in this volume, made up by the incredible baron de Charlus, so I forgive Proust and continue on this endless journey into the mind of a lazy, nervous, shy, and obnoxious Baby Proust (the teen/new adult years).
Only 3 more volumes to go.
Sodome et Gomorrhe II by Marcel Proust
Précurseur du courant de la conscience en écriture.... Phraséologie induite de poussiere de pavots Inversion sexuelle et statut social....
