https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248.Big_Sur_and_the_Oranges_of_Hieronymus_Bosch
Just an excellent and happy feel book about Henry Miller's life in the US, his philosophical views on life, writing, visitors galore (many with presents), family and friends, etc.I have most of his books but I definitely prefer this and also "The Colossus of Maroussi". With these two books one is able to enter into the soul of the man. Very enticing indeed...This book has been added to my "favourites" book-case at home to join all the books of his friends Lawrence Durrell and Anais Nin.
Big Sur and the Oranges of Hieronymous Bosch is delicious! At a paragraph in, my veins were already tingling, at a page in, it was a masterpiece. And I’ve already, albeit inwardly, elected him my beloved godfather of literature and magnificent storytelling, his words warm with a sense of home, of comforting familiarity, and all the same, doling out wallops of wisdom and revolutionary thoughts.
If you intend to grok the jumbled thoughts and messages in Big Sur and the Oranges of Hieronymous Bosch, you need to find some sun, quiet, and solitude - and prepare to re-read whole pages if your attention lapses.This book is fundamentally similar to Hemingway's A Moveable Feast.
As a result, the reader must put himself in the author's mental state as it was during the writing process in order to understand what Miller wishes to say.
But despite all this, Big Sur and the Oranges of Hieronymous Bosch is worth reading.

Vahşi doğası, denize inen hırçın kayalıkları ve ormanlarıyla bir cennet olan Big Sur 1960’lı yıllarda aralarında Jack Kerouac’ın da olduğu Beat kuşağınca ikinci kez keşfediliyor.
Henry Miller bölgede yaşayan insanların basit yaşamlarını gözlemlemiş, kendi yaşamını da bu gözlemlere katarak bir anlatıyı gerçekleştiriyor.
Zaman zaman deneme tarzına yaklaşsa da genelde anı-anlatı kitabı Big Sur. Yazarın kendi deyimiyle müstehcen edebiyat olan “dönence edebiyatından” çok farklı bir kitap.
Zaman zaman içimin geçtiğini, ilgimin dağıldığını, yazarın şişkin egosundan rahatsız olduğumu da not etmekte yarar var.Üç bölümlü kitap ismindeki Hieronymus’un Portakallarını ilk bölümde metafor olarak kullanmış.
There's moments of wisdom mixed in with the duller character portrayals earlier in the book, and gentle attempts to convince perhaps himself, perhaps the world, of the decency to be found in the proto-hippy community at Big Sur. Like so many middle-aged men of intelligence, Miller has escaped the soi-disant air-conditioned nightmare through religions of the east - something which always makes me wary in western men.
There were limits to Henry Miller's patience, and he never fully escaped the protestant Anglo-German moral foundry, and as is typical it was made hypocritical with the introduction of 'eastern' thought into the mix - the mess of individualism, relative comfort, self-actualisation, mindfulness, and never ending morality, or in other words everything Moricand could never be.
It took him awhile to perfect his style starting with the Tropic of Cancer.
He'll casually say, in his story of raising his two kids in a bungalow on Partington Ridge in Big Sur, how it was always a treat when Buster Keaton would come up from Hollywood and entertain the children, doing slapstick routines all evening in their little, living room.
Miller was a pioneer in alternative lifestyle living, even if it was mostly on a shoestring budget.
And of course the backdrop to his impressions is Big Sur. The kind of place that can drive anyone into personal, artistic genius and/or mad hattery.
Perhaps it took just that in his early life along with the misery of city life to bring him to this understanding and appreciation for the "good life" in Big Sur. And when reading this book, I kept finding myself agreeing with him- "Yes, that is what its all about!" The book takes a somewhat odd turn towards the end with the horrific house guest he takes in.
I rarely read books a second time but this is one I will go back to over and over.
Miller is a modern day prophet and I appreciate his wisdom.
This book, about Henry Miller's life at Big Sur, is a mixed bag.
Some of the character sketches are very good, and some are not at all.
When Miller wrote about his benefactor Jean Wharton, for instance, I nearly put down the book because of how barf-y and supplicating it was.
Miller is always good for a few poignant thoughts though, and consistently does a great job when raking someone over the coals.Here was one passage I underlined:"The most difficult thing to adjust to, apparently, is peace and contentment.
As long as there is something to fight, people seem able to brave all manner of hardships.
Henry, you old rascal, you finally figured out the whole deal.
If this is what it's like to get old, I'm not scared at all.
Helluva nice little collection here.
Always merry and bright!
You've helped me figure it out, time and time again.
But the "Big Sur" stage is something I now look forward to, should I be lucky enough to make my way there.
In my best moments I'm already there now, usually when I'm smoking a cigarette by myself and looking at a sunset, or eating a good meal with my wife.
Stand Still Like the Hummingbird...Remember to Remember.
Miller captures all the beauty of California/Big Sur culture (dedicated to ideals of individuality, self-determination, nonconformity, non-materialism, etc...
The story, filled with invective against modern American culture, is still entertaining (the characters that live in Big Sur!), and always with an eye on reminding us of what matters...
a book for the soul.on Big Sur- "This is the California that men dreamed of years ago, this is the Pacific that Balboa looked out on from the Peak of Darien, this is the face of the earth as the Creator intended it to look."
Some of the finest writing I've ever had the pleasure to read.Love Henry Miller.
Henry Miller, long after Paris, contemplating life, conjuring wisdom, but still asking the big questions. A worthwhile read for Miller fans and one of my favorites.
But the William Blake, Dostoevsky, Walt Whitman, Ramakrishna, Francis of Assis, Jesus without the Christ without the Christian, Alan Watts, Abe Lincoln and “do as I do, not as I say” mysticism of the extraordinary ordinary God incarnate in man – and in this case, the 5 times married, pornographer, painter, philosopher and poet of life, Henry Valentine Miller.In Miller's admittedly favourite of his countless writings, Chronos surrenders to Kairos.
-Big Sur è il luogo in cui Miller ha trascorso parte della sua vita in tranquillità, tra l’incantevole paesaggio delle colline e le scogliere che fermano gli urti del mare contro la terra.
Un uomo traboccante vita e libertà non poteva non dare tali insegnamenti ai suoi figli.Sono molto belle le riflessioni sul luogo, quasi sperduto ed incontaminato, che in un futuro si chiede il mio caro Miller potrebbe essere modificato non lasciando traccia di ciò che si rivela con meraviglia ai suoi occhi.L’ultimo capitolo è proprio uno dei suoi libri, Paradiso Perduto, in cui la figura di Conrad Moricand troneggia con i suoi colori cupi.“La gioia suprema del sogno giace in questo potere trasformativo.
If you want to get to know the real Henry Miller, this is probably your book.
Unlike the also autobiographical COLOSSUS OF MAROUSSI, where Miller acts like an American tourist who's never left the states and spends the novel gushing about everything Greek, here he stays put and takes in visitors, answers his correspondance, paints his water colors and deals with his family.
Miller hardly mentions his wife or gives the reader much of any sense of her, despite the fact he seems to resent her and they seperate.
Miller seems like a good man with a big heart.
All in all, I enjoyed this book, but don't open it up expecting big thrills and car chases.
Thankfully, notoriety guaranteed publication of these enjoyable disquisitions on America, fatherhood, half-baked mysticism, and a Left Coast community with a pimp's name.Not surprisingly, my favorite bits are those where Miller dips into a more familiar frame of mind and attacks what his buddy Kenneth Rexroth called "our insane and evil society." Miller closes his best attack like this:These are the kind of facts, needless to say, that one would hate to rub under a kitten's nose by way of house-breaking it.
Better keep the young on lemons and lavender until they've reached the age of discretion.And the happy stuff is good, too.
One of my favorite books, full of wisdom of place and people and art.
And if you've ever experienced the dramatic beauty of Big Sur-unlike any place on earth that I know of-you'll find this captures some of the mystery of the place.Two warnings, though: near the beginning, there is a boring section where he seems to endlessly talk about his daily chores: a snooze, skim it and get to the good stuff.
Yet the book is so full of life and joy and brilliance that it is well worth reading.
A favorite.
I think it may have been the time of year- being trapped in a coffee shop, being called a barista- one who spent all of her tips on the used books- shelved three feet from the tip jar itself- but once again, a favorite.
There is this part- Miller's wife leaves him and takes the children- he is lost.
It was the first time it seemed to me a possibility that he might be lonely.
This was big- obviously.
And so was big sur- only a few months before- when I stood on the beach- collecting sea-bits.
For the most part, I skimmed this book, the way you might drop in and out of the rambling soliloquy of a long-winded individual who's sufficiently compelling to hold your interest in parts, but sometimes you just need to come up for air.
The exception is the third section, Paradise Lost, which I read more or less in its entirety, since it cast the riveting spell of a train wreck.
Really, this is the section that made it all worthwhile for me, and Henry Miller is on fire when he's incensed (har).
So, yep, not a bad landlocked beach read, and some definite high points.
I love Henry Miller. Not a disciplined writer, but the gusto with which he approached life is transfered onto the page and is always invigorating. This is possibly the most spiritual of his books. It his him reflecting and being as still as he could be, rather than throwing himself at situations and people. But even when he's still, he is still with the same passion as when he is in motion. Tropic of Capricorn is my favorite book of him in motion (young), this is my favorite book of him being still (older).
A tribute and love letter to the remote coastal outpost where Miller settled after his return from Europe. He found there a landscape and community that retained for him the promise of America that he felt had been unfulfilled in much of the country. In addition to portraits of his Big Sur neighbors and descriptions of the area's natural wonders, the book contains an often hilarious account of a disastrous visit from Miller's Swiss born astrologer Conrad Moricand that was also published separately as A Devil in Paradise.
I wrote a sort of review that will be easier to link to than to paste here. The full review can be found here: http://www.passionanduncertainty.com/...A book loaded with wisdom, introspection, hypocrisy, and vivid, personal anecdotes. Henry Miller comes through as an outstandingly honest human with a warm heart, a deep intelligence, and a searching soul. What I take away from this book is that Miller strives for peace and arguably achieves it by being unashamedly honest with himself and with the world.
This was the first book of Henry Miller's that I have read (kind of the only one so far), and it made me really appreciate him as a person and as an artist. It is basically written in journal format during the time in his life when he was living in Big Sur (I believe around the time of WWII). Often times I don't care for people's diaristic writing, but Miller is an exception, as is Anais Nin. Reading Henry and June was what finally got me to read anything at all by Henry Miller.
I could not get into this book. Miller just comes across as a womanizing, pompus ass. I was supposed to read this in a class about writing that looks at writers perspectives on writing. Miller was a poor example in my opinion. He seemed more concerned with name dropping and telling personal tales that fueled his own ego and than actually delivering a good piece of advice or story.
So-so, though I'm not much of a Henry Miller fan. There's some generous and pleasant accounts of the land and people of Big Sur (some great pull quotes for tourist brochures). But the better part of this book is given over to Miller's philosophical musings, which are here meandering, muddled and silly. And boring.
Meandering and pretentious. This book had enough evocative descriptions and trenchant observations to make me want to finish it but it also had so much nonsense that it was a struggle not to give up midway.
A treatise on the good life. Miller's search for a sane place and simplified, dignified mode of living and creating. Haunting descriptions of the natural scene of Big Sur, Miller's "paradise", and warm, sympathetic portraits of his often bizarre friends and neighbors.
There are few writers on the planet who can communicate the absolute joy of being alive better than Henry Miller. The disjointed fragments in this book do that well, grounding Miller's joy in the tranquil surroundings of Big Sur. This book is just as fantastic as his major works.
If you have never been before, go to the Henry Miller Library in Big Sur. It's like a weird little cabin in the woods. Make sure you bring a friend that you really, really like, then read this book.You will never forget it.
