https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182012.Indelible
A solid thriller/mysteryAs I am getting more and more used to Slaughter's writing style I have been enjoying them a lot more.
Her stories are dark and brutal.
There are lots of characters you love to hate.
The male characters tend to be angry, deviant, abusive jerks - and some of that even describes the ones who are supposed to be good.
I find that Slaughter frequently has sexual abuse/assault at the center of her stories.
If any of this bothers you, proceed with caution.But, if you enjoy dark, twisted tales and like to be shocked, give this and other Slaughter stories a try.
I always write my books so that anyone can pick up any book and know what's going on and who is who, but I am the type who has to read in order, so I know this is an important question.What I like about this book is you get to see where Jeffrey grew up.
What folks who have read the previous books know is that nobody can change a person.
That person has to change himself.This is also the first book where I wrote openly about sex between Jeffrey and Sara.
Sara Linton visits Jeffrey at the police station and becomes embroiled in a deadly shootout and hostage situation.
The story alternates between this tense showdown and that of Sara and Jeffrey's early relationship.
I thought the alternating stories were done brilliantly.
At first, I was impatient, wanting to get on with what was happening at the station.
But soon I was just as hooked by the revelations of Jeffrey's past.
I have a much better sense of Jeffrey but he's still an enigma and I continue to be conflicted about him.
This may be the best story of the series to date.
Author's note.   "Sticklers for order who ask "where do I start" reading the Grant County series have two choices. You can go with Blindsighted, which is technically the first book, or you can start with Indelible, which is the "origin story" for Sara and Jeffrey. I always write my books so that anyone can pick up any book and know what's going on and who is who, but I am the type who has to read in order, so I know this is an important question."   Do I agree? Mmmmm ... not sure. I am a stickle
You can go with Blindsighted, which is technically the first book, or you can start with Indelible, which is the "origin story" for Sara and Jeffrey.
We get to see Jeffrey and Sara visit his hometown some years prior to the current events.
"This is also the first book where I wrote openly about sex between Jeffrey and Sara.
I hope I'm not fickle enough to think the sex part of the book upped the rating for me.
But I do like some romance and sex in my Suspense/Mystery books.Won't give too much away.
This is my absolute favourite of this series. I have read Indelible several times, and now listened on audio. A brilliant, exciting, tense plot whichever way you choose to 'read' it.Highly recommended.

Indelible is the fourth installment in Karin Slaughter's crime thriller series titled Grant County.
While this series has focused on developing the female leads up to this point, Indelible adds extra emphasis on the male characters as well as the dynamics of a small town's law enforcement team.
In my opinion, Indelible isn't as dark and gritty as the other Grant County books have been which allows it to be a much appreciated reprieve for some, but makes it my least favorite installment to date (because the darker the better where Slaughter is concerned), but make no mistake: it is excellent.
In this Grant County novel, the story is being told from present day but also flashes back to when Sara and Jeffrey first met.
At first this kind of threw me off but you really get to hear the background on their story and we get to find out a lot about Jeffrey's past which I really loved.
Hearing the back story on him and Sara's relationship made me love them that much more.
Anyone who has read these books knows about Lena and her troubled past and how she left the Grant County police force, but in this novel she makes her big return which I couldn't be happier about.
Unlike the early Grant County novels, this isn't a horror show and instead is a total drama-fest.
my mind is blown and I'm overwhelmed by the drama.
These characters are exhausting me.That said, I really liked how the action of this plot unfolded in the present day scenes.
But of course it wouldn't have been as emotionally wrenching had we not had the backstory, which simultaneously showed up the early courtship days of Sara and Jeffrey.
It's interesting to see how Slaughter set them up to fail and interesting how they've come through it all (finally?
please god, finally) but I'll refer you to the aforementioned comment about being overwhelmed.
Indelible is the 4th book in the Grant County series by Karin Slaughter and my favorite so far.Sara Linton, the town's pediatrician and part-time ME, is at the police station dropping off an autopsy report.
While there, 2 young men enter the station and begin shooting the police officers, including Jeffrey.
This begins a tense hostage situation.The hostage storyline alternates with the story of the early days of Jeffrey and Sara's romance.
The hostage situation is tense and scary - the hometown story is frustrating, sad and enlightening.
I realized after reading that I always liked the character Jeffrey Toliver, because he seemed to be the only normal character of the bunch.
At first, this part of the novel dragged on compared to the excitement of the hostage situation, but soon, Jeffrey's childhood friends are involved in murder, and Sarah is there to do the autopsy.
The rest of the novel is primarily set in the past, where Jeffrey and all his friends seem to have secrets.I didn't really like the skewering of Tolliver.
In this novel, Jeffrey seems to crumble at the prospects of facing his own past.
Another great read by Karin Slaughter...I don't know what else to say. She is a master at dark, emotional, heartbreaking suspense. Couldn't put it down.
Indelible is book four in the Grant County series.
A shooting taking place in the police station kicks off the storyline with timeframes switching between past and present.
Here we find out a lot more of Chief Tolliver's background, where he grew up and how events come together to lead to today's shooting.I can't say I liked this book as much as the others in the series.
I enjoyed learning more about Linton's and Tolliver's relationship and how they were in the early days.
But I found the present day hostage situation more riveting.
Only 2 Stars for this one. Virtually no character in the book is attractive or sympathetic. Depressing scenery, confusing timelines with flashbacks every other chapter. Loved the first book of hers that I read, Triptych, but the Grant County series hasn't clicked and actually I only finished this one because I wanted to see how little I could care about the characters. Except for a couple of minor players, don't care about any of them.
This book started out incredible!!! I loved the shock value at the beginning. It was a big bang...but then it goes back in time and starts telling the story of what leads to the incident and well, it was all just a little too much for my liking. There was a LOT of drama and too many problems. It seemed overly done and lost me due to it. Overall though, its a very good book and I'm still a huge fan of the series, just feel maybe she crammed a little too much into this one book.
This book starts with a shooting and hostage situation at the police station and then alternates back to the beginning of Jeffrey and Sara’s relationship with him showing her the small Alabama town he grew up in.
I really liked the back and forth.
Both situations were very tense but I did find the stuff in the past the most interesting.
I did like seeing that Lena seemed to be getting back to her old self but I really want her to stop making such poor choices in her personal life.
I don't like Jeffrey, and Lena is annoying the crap out of me.
I think this is the best book in this series so far. In the last couple of books it was going towards a soap opera drama. This was a fast pace mystery with two time lines.
Re-ReadIndelible is book #4 and a wonderful addition to the Grant County series!
This is definitely my favorite book in the Grant County series! This is the origin story of Jeffrey and Sara, combined with the most horrible of events anyone of them has ever faced.I never were a Jeffrey fan, but after Indelible I am in love...Also seeing a younger version of Sara just made her so much more real.I can't wait to see what is next in line for them.O, and Lena...Lena is finally growing up!
I think if this book had been written by anyone other than Karin Slaughter it would've gotten a lower rating, but because she manages to surprise me every time I read one of her books I have to give her credit.
Grant County isn't as strong as the Will Trent series (probably because I love Will Trent himself if I'm being honest) but I like the grittiness.
As always, Slaughter delivers a strong mystery that I truly, honestly did not see coming.
The only real downside came in the form of interpersonal drama that was important and somewhat romance-y (in terms of Jeffery and Sara), but still dragged a little for me.
When the book starts off, pediatrician and part-time medical examiner Sara Linton stops by the police station in her small Georgia town.
She's dropping off an autopsy report, but she's also hoping to check in with police chief Jeffrey Tolliver, her ex-husband and current lover.
While talking to Jeffrey, two young men rush into the police station and start shooting, killing several officers, wounding others, and taking everyone else hostage.
Jeffrey decides to stop by Sylacauga, a tiny town in Alabama, where he grew up.
The trip back to 1991 shows fans of this series how far Jeffrey has come from the small town troublemaker he was in his early days.
This is essentialy a prequel story within a story that takes place in modern time.In the beginning of their relationship Jeffrey Tolliver took his girlfriend Sara Linton to his hometown.
Sara Linton is in the station and has to fight for Tollivers life while cheating with his identity.Outside Lena Adams finds her first working-day at the Grant police station with a siege in which she will take part and will be a part of the solution.
Taking a life with a knife which seems to be much easier for her than expected.A great book that is difficult to lay down, I did finish it quite fast simply because of Mrs Slaughters great writing, it seems to be improving with each novel.
2 1/2 - 3 StarsThis installment of the Grant County series left me quite disappointed.I was anxious to finally read about the early days of Jeffery & Sara's relationship, but the mingled past/present storylines ended up being rather dull.
I have a love/hate relationship with Lena throughout this series, and while she had a much smaller role in this book than she has in the previous books, I found myself liking her character more now, while my annoyance with Sara seems to have ratcheted up considerably over the last 2 books.
This novel in the series was a surprise.
Sometimes if you look into the past and history of an individual; or in this case, a character, you'll find out why certain attributes are ingrained into these characters and how they became the person they are.
Too often we say, "I hate you, you're a bad person"....instead of saying "I like/love you, but hate what you did or the choice you made".
I really disliked Chief Tolliver in the beginning but understand him more now since his upbringing was revealed in this novel.
For me, only 2 stars. This book is a must read if you want to know the details of how Jeffrey and Sara met, and mostly about Jeffrey's past- his home life, friends and family. I did find some of it interesting. I stuck with it for the simple fact I am determined to finish up this series , in order.
a look into Jeffrey and Sara's past! how exciting! i was always curious to learn about where he grew up and was worried i wouldn't be able to find out. this was probably my favorite so far out of the series. on to the next!
Indelible is so far my favorite in this series.It begins with a BANG! Sara Linton who's the town pediatrician and also the coroner is stopping by the police station to talk to her ex-husband Jeffrey Tolliver when two men enter the station and start shooting. A hostage situation ensues after multiple officers are either killed or hurt. As the situation progresses at the station, we get to see Lena Adams getting ready to start her first day back as a police officer. It's also her birthday which s
Sara Linton who's the town pediatrician and also the coroner is stopping by the police station to talk to her ex-husband Jeffrey Tolliver when two men enter the station and start shooting.
As the situation progresses at the station, we get to see Lena Adams getting ready to start her first day back as a police officer.
To a time when Jeffrey first started dating Sara.
For Sara, this is the first time she's privy to knowing more about Jeffrey's past.
Soon speculations are flying and it's up to Sara and Jeffrey to find the truth.Indelible had two good storylines which meshed perfectly by the end.
(Side note: I always feel kind of icky about saying I *enjoy* Karin Slaughter's books when they deal with such confronting and squicky issues, buuuuuuuut here we are)26/4/2012Twelve years ago, Sara Linton and Jeffrey Tolliver went away on holiday.
In the present, the events of that trip have come back to haunt them.Much like Slaughter's book Triptych, this is a story that alternates between the past and the present, saving the big reveal for the last minute.
Both Sara and Jeffrey are characters with skeletons in the closet, whose relationship is being tried in both the past and the present.
Her writing is almost always a five and this story, in particular, I should rate at least a four star.
Her plotting, her character development is never less than a five star read.
I definitely foresaw the end though, minus one major plot twist.
And I think maybe just the hillbilly setting is what turned me off some of the story here.
I love how she has almost set each book up though as an ode to each character in the Grant County series.
Each book includes all the characters from first person perspectives, but each one seems to focus more on one or two's background or character development.
