https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/721667.A_Preface_to_Morals
Whilst admitting that such as he could no longer feign belief in the Christian God, Lippmann sought to provide a means to deal with the spiritual rawness left by such agnosticity without succumbing to nihilism or receding into reaction; the result is this tome, propounding the transference of an ethos and the finding of a meaning for life within a dedication to humanistic principles—in other words, agreeing to make man the measure of all things within the boundary lines of a (pseudo)secular progressive liberalism, and seeking therein a surcease on suffering by attuning oneself to the immanence of a brotherhood rather than the transcendence of an unknowable and distant Absolute.
As with much of what he wrote, Lippmann provides the reader with thoughtful, interesting and, at times, moving material.
In it Lippmann argues that in modern society traditional religious faith has lost its power to function as a source of moral authority.
In addition, the development of scientific method has created an atmosphere of doubt as to the claims made by religious doctrine.
That doubt has grown larger over the last fifty years.Lippmann offers humanism as the philosophy best suited to replace the role of religion in modern life.
He claims that the role of the moralist in modern society is not, as in traditional religions, to chastise and punish but to teach others a humanistic morality that can fulfill the human needs traditionally filled by religion.
Classic study of secular morality.
"The unlovely quality of much modern religiosity is due to these doubts.
The angry absurdities which fundamentalists propound against 'evolution' are not often due to their confidence in the inspiration of the Bible.
They are due to lack of confidence, to doubt resisted like an annoying tune which a man cannot shake out of his head.
For if the militant fundamentalists were utterly sure they are right, they would exhibit some of that composure which the truly devout display.
But because their whole field of consciousness is trembling with uncertainties they are in a state of fret and fuss; their preaching is frousy, like the seductions of an old coquette."-Walter Lippmann, A Preface to Morals, (1929), pg.
A Preface To Morals by Walter Lippmann (1929)The reader this book addresses is a skeptic of any theistic fundamentalist religion which prescribes morality.
In Part I, Lippmann does comment occasionally on problems that a fundamentalist view of Christianity has for him, but primarily he tries to show the skeptic the moral consequences of a rejection of fundamentalist faith.
I highly recommend this book for those who have rejected a fundamentalist religion.
I read excerpts of this book from which my father sat down and typed out about 16 pages of the text as some of it resonated deeply with his own thoughts on wrestling with ideas on humanism and morals, philosophy and religion.
Perhaps it was in the 1980's that I received this in the mail from him.Later i picked up the book in a used bookstore and browsed trhough ab it more of it myself.The basic point I believe is be good to one another and do the right thing.
I read this book right out of college at about 22/23 years old. I didn't understand all of it at the time, but it got me started down the path of radical atheism. It's a tough read, but I recommend it to those serious about moral atheism. It was written in the 30's, but is still startlingly relevant.
To be fair to Lippman, perhaps this book read as a revelation in 1929 when it was first published. But more than 80 years later, his call to humanism, and his portrayal of the failure of the traditional source of morality for most people, are old hat. But the book is also repetitious--perhaps for the same reason--perhaps he felt it necessary in 1929 to pull out all the armory.
Amazingly relevant, given that it was written in the 1920s. I suppose that's because the moral underpinnings that Lippmann focuses on derive from reflections on human nature, which hasn't changed much, if at all. Very well written.
I find Walter Lippman intriguing, insightful, and deeply disturbing. This is an interesting view of history after WWI and the effects of Modernism.
Very excited to lurk through this one. Rob gave me a copy with a dare I say "Tattered Cover" that is from 1929, which I believe is a first edition... The FOOL!
interesting read.
Still timely.
A book that changed my life
