https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6998215-believe-in-yourself
This book is so thin. I have completed this book in one day. I didn't liked the book. The only positive I could take from this is, now I have one day read book in my shelve.Author tried to poured so many thing with minimum and complicated words. Even after reading 10-20 pages I hadn't any idea whats going.Though I have liked his other books some what more, I would not recommend this book to anyone.
everything he writes is perfect
Joseph in the Bible means disciplined or controlled imagination and we are to be like Joseph in being able to dream.
I have to be like Joseph, a dreamer of dreams, have visions, images, ideals in my mind, and know that there is Creative Power who responds to my mental pictures.
That is why I have to keep my imagination busy with noble, God-like concepts and ideas.
My attitude is my mental reaction to people, circumstances, conditions, etc.
Through discipline, directed and controlled imagination I can dominate and master my emotions and mental attitude in general.
In this book, Dr. Murphy really emphasizes that by focusing our thoughts on the positive and then enlisting the help of our imagination to see our desires as already fulfilled we start a process of manifestation that will ultimately be realized - to the direct extent that we believe in that vision and stay focused on it.One of the analogies that really cemented this concept for me (pun intended) was that of the architect on how they are able to use their imagination to conceive of and then proceed to draw, in exact proportions, what they imagined.
The best book on self help. Easy to read, grasp and relate.
Believe in yourself by Dr. Joseph Murphy is one of the best self help books I've ever read.
I've understood that most of the time in my life is wasted by thinking negative, speaking negative about someone or something.
Truly excited, and I've completed reading this book in one day.
He is teaching/explaining us that how good or positive thoughts plays an important role in our life.
And believing in ourselves can make an Alchemy.
He is injecting some good ways/techniques for believing in ourselves and positive thoughts.
So anyone can read and understand this book very easily.

Joseph Murphy has become one of my all-time favorite authors/teachers. My life has transformed in new ways by absorbing his teachings through his writings/books. His writing is easy to understand and provides practical guidance on how to apply the principles/suggestions he recommends in order to live a more full, fun, peaceful and healthy existence as a human being. Phenomenal.
Must read book, if you have dream that you want to become reality. We can achieve enormous things just because of faith. Dr. Joseph Murphy has illustrated various simple techniques that we can implement in our daily routine which will impact our subconscious mind and will result to achieve our dreams.
I have loved this book. I think it's very useful. It helps you to achieve strength and happiness. It has helped me.
One time reading is good. Gives you new thoughts to think and try. Nice to read it at the right time.
Still water that runs deep.
The whole book is one statement: "Imagine good things, and they will happen to you"! ... No more ! Just shit, should never be read!
Relatif. Je n'aime pas son explication de texte de la bible. C'est tiré par les cheveux. Et un air de déjà vu
In this book, the author in the beginning might seem vague and wandering around with his connotations and anecdotes here and there, but the author deliberately by repeating the same fact from different angles indirectly reinforces the major crux of his preaching or say teaching - Power within oneself and the art of positive thinking who masters the control our his mind, thought, belief.
Lots of positive vibes comes out from this book after reading.
Certainly deliberate, persistent efforts have to be taken to master the art of controlling your thoughts.
I rated this book with 3 stars primarily because it is not quite what I thought it was when I purchased it.
The book is okay.
It is about your imagination and how to use it to your advantage.
The book is quite a bit more on religion than I thought it was going to be; not that religion is a bad thing, just not what I expected.
It is a short read so it would be difficult to suggest that it is NOT worth reading because it is worth reading; just be prepared for how it has been written integrating a lot of scripture into the chapters.
كعادة كتب التنمية وتطوير الذات لاتقدم سوى إرشادات مملة.نمطية رتيبة.لكني استفدت من مقارنة الترجمة الجادة خصوصا للقصص الداخلية التي تدعم أفكار الكاتب.الكتاب صغير الحجم 60 صفحة.اقتبست فقط هذه الفكرة التي تشجع الخيال:"مهما كان السجن الذي يحيط بك؛سواء كان سجن الخوف أو المرض أو الفقر؛أو أي نوع من أنواع القيود، تذكر أن الخيال:هو المنقذ الوحيد في كافة السجون".
This book really made me think that how powerful our thoughts are and we can attain anything in our life by discipline imagination and being positive in life some of the positive lines from the book are:YOU WERE BORN TO WIN, TO CONQUER INDEED, TO OVERCOMEALL I EVER DO IS ADD. I NEVER SUBTRACT..........
AmazingThis work is unlike the garbage found on self-help book shelves today. It is amazingly scientific yet philosophical and it follows a logical sequence that proves iis authenticity.
Good read Excellent narration. Deep discussion with a truly inspired meaning. Dr. Murphy makes the thought of success and the actuality of success attainable. His knowledge of ancient religion and inclusion with Christianity ensures everyone may achieve the same results.
For me, Dr. Murphy is my go to teacher who helps me understand about the sub-conscious and conscious mind, which as he consistently states in his work - the 2 most important tools within to change and master one's life of well being and abundance all areas life.
I would say, " Don't judge a book by its cover and size". The book has so much to offer. Purely motivational and acted like a guiding light. After the read, felt so good and rejuvenated with renewed energy within. Loved it.
Fascinating! I love the message given in this. I have read many books about the power of the mind and found this to be one of the best! It is an easy read and easy to understand his message.
This Book is so helpful...It says about the conscious and subconscious mind..You have to imagine what you want..Subconscious turns into conscious..Our thoughts has "Power"So,imagine positively one day you'll Get imagination into reality..
It's all in your mindWhatever situation we are in right now is a direct reflection of how we feel inside our mind.Once we change our thought, we change our world.
Repetitive things you read now and then in all those self help books!
Nice Book. Good Philosophy :) :)A short read and nothing to worry.
I liked this book! Frankly speaking I am new reader n started with this ! Thin and fine book! Like the concept of law of attraction!
A mere memory refresher of the beautiful “The Power of Your Subconscious Mind” by the same author. If you already read the latter, you don’t need the formal.
Just a straight book on a important topic
