https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12781.The_Satanic_Verses
I felt that for a book to engender such a farrago of praise, death and destruction I must read it for myself and see what it was all about.
But I do hate that the fundamentalists have got even that much of a victory.Death to all those that oppose *freedom!
Well not death, nah, not that, just shut up already and go and moan to your friends and family like everyone else would.(view spoiler)[*One man's freedom is another man's murder; this is a word that changes its meaning according to the philosophy of those spouting it.
(hide spoiler)]Also see Joseph Anton for what I thought of Rushdie writing the Satanic Verses.
He sets out his prime motif: The question that’s asked here remains as large as ever it was: which is, the nature of evil, how it’s born, why it grows, how it takes unilateral possession of a many-sided human soul.Wait a minute, he blinks at his notes, if Iago is evil incarnate, does that not also mean that he is Satan incarnate?
Why not call the novel so too, except that it would mean something else - the verses that the real Satan of the story, Iago, sings in Othello's ear.
So Satan decides to narrate the story of one of his incarnations?
So I thought (these were the days long before the reaction to Danish comics) wow, this book pissed off people enough that they want to kill him?
Wonderful things happen in this book that everyone should read, but it's not worth getting through all the unnecessary to get there.
This book, I only read in great spurts when I was sitting and waiting.
I read a bunch when I was sitting and waiting at a debate tournament.
I read a bunch while I was sitting and waiting in the bathtub for my health to return.
From the archives: September 27 1988The Satanic Verses, the controversial first draft of the Quran recently discovered after spending 1379 years in a safe deposit box, finally appeared yesterday to a mixed reception.
"Wheeeeee!
I'm so excited!!" said one fan who had spent all night lining up outside her local Barnes & Noble.
"A new book by Allah!
Can you believe it?!" Other readers are however less enthusiastic about the novel, and take exception to its portrayal of the much-loved character Mohammad as a lecherous smalltime crook.
"Allah never intended this book to be published," he said yesterday in a tersely worded post.
And there’s the rub because The Satanic Verses is quite possibly the single most confusing piece of fiction I have ever read.
So much of the novel went over my head that by around the half way point I’d lost the thread completely and was just reading a series of seemingly unconnected chapters.
What didn’t help is the fact that I’m also reading Joseph Anton, Rushdie’s biography.
I became confused with events that had happened in Rushdie’s life and those that had happened in the fictional account here because they are so strikingly similar.
I do not mean this in a bad sense.
I mean this in the sense that it's overwhelming.
No matter how quickly you think you might read, reading this book will slow you down.
It took me an entire year to read this book, and was almost certainly my longest read.
I would have liked to taken a class on it while reading it so that I could have understood more of it, but even without one, I enjoyed every second of it.
reading it is a labor of love, but it's a highly rewarding one.
The thing that enraged some Muslims (and the Ayatollah of Iran most of all) was Rushdie's hypothesis that Mohammed, being completely illiterate and having the Qu'ran being narrated to him by Archangel Gabriel could have dozed off at one point and that Satan could have impersonated Gabriel without Mohammed noticing causing some verses of the Holy Book to be written by him.
No more than when Kazantzakis imagines Jesus fantasising about accepting Mary Magdalene's sexual advances.
In Rushdie's book, this is not even the main story, just an internal narrative in a dream of a character that falls out of an airplane of all things.
What kind of idea are you?This question, scattered throughout the pages of this novel, is the intermediary between the author and his work.
If you will notice, all the facets and interwoven tales are delved in problems when the characters place their life, their ideas on nationalism, faith, someone they want to be like, someone they love, on political beliefs, on destiny, on goodwill, on what everybody does.
What kind of idea are you?Be your own kind of idea, think critically, question everything, don’t be a passive receiver, be open-minded, be creative, unique, but also learn to respect ideas that are not your own.
يقول المفكر البريطانى رولد ديهلان هذا النمط من اثارة الحساسية قد اوصل كتبا غير متميزة على الاطلاق ال
I must claim an embarrassing ignorance about just about every aspect of this daunting work at the outset: I had only the faintest whisper of a memory of having heard the phrase "satanic verses" outside of a discussion of the ever-present religiously-sanctioned hit out on the author's life.
While reading this book, I fell head-first into every one of these gaps in my knowledge and quite a few more besides.
To pigeonhole the Satanic Verses as a book solely concerned with and influenced by the above mentioned topics is to miss a great deal of what Rushdie put into it.
" .. إن الوغد موجود في كل مجتمع و لكنه لا يظهر على السطح إلا في فترات الإنتقال , و هو لا يرمي إلى أي غاية , و لا يسعى إلى أي هدف , و لا يملك أي فكرة , كل ما هنالك أنه يعبر عن نفاذ صبر , و يدل على اختلاط الأمور في المجتمع , و مع ذلك نرى الوغد - دون أن يدرك هو ذلك - يخضع في جميع الأحيان تقريبا لجماعة صغيرة من المتقدمين الذين لهم هدف محدد , فهم يدفعون هؤلاء الأوغاد في الإتجاه الذي يناسبهم . " ألبير كامو
خصوصًا أنني قرأت له قبل هذ العمل رواية (أطفال منتصف الليل)أولًآ وهي رائعته الجميلة، والتي أبدع فيها بموضوع الهند قبل وبعد الإستقلال، ثم قرأت (آيات شيطانية) ومن بعدها غير عمل له ومنها عمله (العار).
هذه الرواية وجدتها مُقذية ومنفرة.حينًا أقول أن رواية (منتصف الليل) وهبت رشيد مكانة عالمية وهو قابع في بريطانيا ولاشك صدى روايته وصل لبلده الهند فلماذا هذا المنزلق في رواية بائسة موضوعًا وطريقة معالجة حتي أنني بت أستغرب "التطبيل" الذ يحصده من بعض العرب مسلمين وغير مسلمين من دعاة الحرية التي تمجدهم دار (الجمل) في غلاف الرواية حتي تُحسن بيع منتجها كعادته إزاء العمل الذي يرفض.
Ο συγγραφέας δημιουργεί μια ισλαμική παραγωγή η οποία δεν οριοθετείται στο Κοράνι και τον Προφήτη.
Μια ταινία δημιουργεί και ο Σαλμάν Ρούσντι με σκοπό την απόσχιση του καλού απο το κακό.
Η "Κυρία" της ερήμου (θα σας τρελάνω πριν τρελαθώ ) όμως,αρνείται κατηγορηματικά να ασπαστεί τον Αλλάχ και να απαρνηθεί τις γυναικείες θεότητες, ακόμη κι αν αυτές εμπεριέχοταν με άλλο ρόλο στη νέα θρησκεία.
Όταν απελπίζεται,συμπράττει με την πονηριά και τη μισαλλοδοξία μετατρέποντας τις παραδοσιακές γυναικείες θεότητες σε πνεύματα του κακού.( πάρτε το αποκορύφωμα της επικείμενης βλάβης που αχνοφαίνεται).
Αυτή η κινηματογραφική ιστορία για τον Μωάμεθ και τα έργα του,οδήγησαν το συγγραφέα σε θανατική καταδίκη.
Salman Rushdie uses excessive language to cloud discordant plots, has a part-time occupation of scouring the news to write op-eds about evil Muslim organizations he reads about, and is obsessed with celebrity.Rushdie strangles his plot in The Satanic Verses by hitching every development to a forced and unnecessarily long description or metaphor.
I don't like reading over 500 pages worth of giddy and bubbly writing just to get through a stupid plot.His realism is magical because he relies on controversial fairy tales to carry themes he is either too lazy or too incompetent to create through reality.
This book is not for the faint of heart.
It is overwhelming in terms of plot, imagery, and its large cast of characters.
There is just....so much packed into this book.
By combining the two, this book becomes perfect--you can enjoy it on first read, but you will want to read it again, and again.
Rushdie is the consummate storyteller.
Rushdie keeps it alive.However, a warning.
This book does not portray the Prophet Mohammed in the best light.
Rushdie keeps your guessing--in the end, you have to decide what you believe about the characters, including Mohammed.
واحدة أخرى من الروايات التي تمثل القيء الفكري بكل معانيه وكأن الرجل أبى أن يحمل كل هذا الوسخ بداخله 
The main reason why I think this book deserves to be read is because while Rushdie does fall into authorial/political traps in regards to women, he does so while deconstructing the very power structures that propagate those traps.
It's not a matter of "I did my best and no one should criticize me" feel-good stagnancy, nor a philosophical degeneration into nonentity that likes to pretend privilege is not a thing, but a real look at the compromises we live by in the societal boundaries of good and evil.
I have decided that it's time for me to leave this book.
I always have to read the last few pages I read the time before in hopes of refreshing myself for the current reading session.
Unfortunately because the book is so abstract, new characters constantly appear as if they have been there all along, causing immediate disorientation and confusion in this reader.
After I cheated on this book and read another instead I finally realized it is time for me to give it up.
I am a typically faithful reader.
دوستانِ خردگرا، به نظرم 2 ستاره هم برایِ این کتاب زیاد بودمتاسفانه با گنده کردنِ موضوعِ این کتابِ مسخره توسطِ خمینی و عده ای ایرانیِ عرب پرست و نادان، تنها و تنها مردمِ سرزمینم خسارت دیدندبله عزیزانم، با محکوم کردن و حلال کردنِ خون « سلمان رشدی»، باعث شدند که این مرد ناشناس و رمان نویس، به شهرتِ جهانی دست پیدا کند، و از طرفِ ملکۀ انگلستان لقبِ «سِر» را دریافت کند...

I don't understand everything he writes about.
The colors are candy pink, good luck red, and Aegean blue, and everything is crashing and tumbling into each other.And on top, his stories are amusing, mischievous, clever, full of naughtiness and frank stupidity.
And if someone rides his ass backwards through parliament, no one blinks, and Bollywood is even more bollyish and saints ride rats in homespun, and then all of sudden, his stories are so sharp, so smart, quick to cut and they leave you, well, feeling awed.
When the Danish Cartoon crisis erupted, I immediately went out and bought a copy of this book... though I'm afraid I didn't then go and read it in public places, as I should have done. It is indeed extravantly disrespectful towards the Prophet, as everyone knows. What's somewhat less well-known is that it's also very disrespectful towards a figure who sure looks a lot like the late Ayatollah Khomeini. I wonder whether this wasn't the real reason for the fatwa? No doubt it has already been discussed at great length...
“From the beginning men used God to justify the unjustifiable.” I’ve been meaning to read this novel for years, ever since I first read his other magnificent novel “Midnight’s Children“, and the wait was worth it, it is not disappointing in any sense of the word.My one problem is that I expected this to be an novel set in ancient times, as I thought it had a bigger focus on ancient deities and Islam in general, instead I was greeted by a fantastic study on what is like to be alienated, as an im
Are you the kind that compromises, does deals, accomodates itself to society, aims to find a niche, to survive; or are you the cussed, bloody-minded, ramrod-backed type of damnfool notion that would rather break than sway with the breeze?
– The kind that will almost certainly, ninety-nine times out of hundred, be smashed to bits; but, the hundredth time, will change the world.” 
Maybe we think, it'll get better or it'll reach a moment when all the nonsense will have become justified.And then, there is the miserable expository didactic style.
I think he tries, here as elsewhere, to address the question of faith, but in a sense much broader than the mere religious one.
What does it mean to believe something so strongly that the fiction comes to be real or reality is denied and becomes a miracle?
Or when and how you don't believe and what the consequences of that unbelief may be...
الرواية فعلا مثيرة ، الاستطراد سمة أساسية في الرواية ، الخلط بين الثقافة الاسلامية و الهندية للأبطال
I was massively underwhelmed by this. I have put off and put off reading it, and then I was told by a friend that it was her favourite book, so I thought I'd give it a go, and frankly I wish I hadnt bothered.I found the writing pretentious, with very little story. It has the potential to be brilliant, as the bones of it is good, but there is so much waffle, rubbish and unnessessary wording that it fast becomes tedious and irritatnig.That said its made him very rich, so good on him!
قيء ....
I remember all the controversy surrounding it when it came out and the fatwa that was placed on the author.
I found I was more interested in the circumstances and the author than I was the actual book so I never read it.Picking it up now I expected it to be somewhat dated (it's not).
The main part of the story is really about India and the race relations with England.
I don't know a lot of history of this (hence the not smart enough comment earlier).
I read this book to show solidarity with the author after he was banned by Rajiv Gandhi’s government and forced to apologies.
Even some group issued fatwah calling for Rushdie's death.
I am against banning any book.The Satanic Verses consists of a frame narrative, using elements of magical realism, interlaced with a series of sub-plots that are narrated as dream visions experienced by one of the protagonists.
The book takes a moment to grasp Rushdie's complex storyline and sort through the British and Indian slang, but the effort is worth the time to both expand one's vocabulary and see his logic.
I have been trying to read this book day by day by day and just cannot get into it. I tried when it was published, put it aside for another day. Tried again many years later. This will have to be my pen-ultimate effort, I hope.The writing is well done. Eloquent. Impressive. But apart from that there's nothing else gripping me to a point where I want to leave everything else and bed down with this book. The subject simply does not mesmerize me enough. Will try again later.
