https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1129533.Evidence_That_Demands_a_Verdict
Not proven.And I really got tired of him constantly referring to Christian apologists as "the famous such-and-such". If they're all so famous, how come I've never heard of them?
Not the most objective book18 January 2013 I have noticed that this book receives some bad responses, but then that is not surprising when you have a book that is purporting to outline all of the evidence supporting the authenticity of Christianity. Unfortunately it has been a while since I read it but it is one of those books that is ordered as notes as opposed to being written in prose to make it easier see the evidence that McDowell argues. However, the problem, as one person suggested, is th
One of the fallacies that I want to point out (which I do believe comes from this book) are the number of copies of the New Testament that we have, and the dating of these documents.
In reality the earliest copy of the New Testament we have is the Codex Sinaticus (you can see it on display in the British Library) which dates back to about 500 AD.
How is it that we claim that the oldest copy of the Republic we have dates to around 800 AD, when in reality we have fragments that are much earlier (and the same goes with the Iliad and the Odyssey).
Have read this more than once, and several revisions. This is not a casual read. It is written more like a source book, or a thesis on the premises of who was Jesus Christ, and the claims of the Bible. Excellent read!
As a teenager, I read this to help strengthen my faith but found it to be full of logical fallacies. After reading this, I wondered why a leading apologetic book had to use fallacious arguments as supposed evidence for faith. This led to deeper examination and I have still yet to find any good evidence for Christian beliefs.
The verdict is in. This book is schmutzwasser. And I don't have to prove that it is, since he doesn't really prove his points, either.
Best thing I can say is that Mr. McDowell has given an honest effort in gathering all the information he feels justifies his beliefs. The title of the book is misleading. Despite the impressive number of quotes and apologetics, evidence is lacking. This book suffers profusely from circular reasoning, "facts" with no support, and sources that don't matter. I love C.S. Lewis too, that doesn't mean his opinion carries any weight.
This was my second reading.I love this book, written in defense of Christianity by a former doubter, now turned apologist.It is an amazing collection of evidence from history, world experts and even skeptics, and hundreds of presentations of logic and debate that are overwhelmingly compelling.
Despite accusing critics of Christianity and the Bible of bringing their "anti-supernatural bias" to the table, making them unfit critics, Josh McDowell has based all of his so-called "evidence" on the presupposition that the Bible is true and that the Christian god is real.
There is not a single shred of actual evidence that the supernatural claims of the Bible (i.e. virgin birth, the resurrection of Jesus, and other miracles) are true.
Because he's already decided that the Bible is true, the fact that the Bible makes those claims is enough "evidence" for him.
Evidential apologetics to strengthen the faith of Christians. A good 'resource' to keep on your shelf.
Great reference book.
Excellent arguments for Christianity based on history.
The worst of Christian apologetics. If taken seriously, it accomplishes the exact opposite of the authors goal.
Although I read it page by page this is more of a reference resource. The chapter on the resurrection is worth the price of the entire book.
Wow.I was a born-again fundamentalist when I read this book, and I still found it laughable.It almost reads like a parody.
Great apologetics reference with lots of fascinating material.
you need this book in your library! You cannot find a more articulate defense of the truth.
When this showed up today as one of my recommendations, I remembered I read this book many, many years ago. Don't remember much about it and nowadays I don't think I'd be impressed with it.
This is one book every apologist must have! It contains all the topics required by an apologist to make a case for Christianity.
I didn't realize there are so many evidences for the truth of the Bible and the Christian faith. The evidences are too many to list.
Evidence that Josh McDowell did his homework. I'd give it an A+ if it weren't so scholarly and dull. McDowell gives us the bare bones, it's up to the individual to bring faith to life.
I feel no shame in admitting I skimmed this book since this is the second book that I read at the request of my family members.
(ugh!) So let's just say, I'm done reading religious books for other people.
I mean, that's probably a good rule of thumb anyway...Once again this is an apologetic reference guide for Christians, I'm not going to spend a long time dissecting everything within this book...
But if you are reading this book honestly, I encourage you to look at these arguments objectively and see if there isn't any circular reasoning, pre-suppositions, and a Christian bias in there.
This is a book for people who already believe and are looking for additional arguments to feed their confirmation bias.
I read this book (and its sequel) as a Christian when I was younger and looking for reasons not to doubt but found the arguments in the book were so full of logical fallacies, circular arguments, and generally poorly reasoned that it actually resulted in more doubt.
It definitely didn't present any actual evidence or strengthen my faith.
But it was another step on the road to enlightenment and made me realize just how bad the arguments for religion really are, so maybe it did me some good in that sense?
Well, it has taken me a year to finish this book. Not because it was bad, or poorly written. There was a lot of content to take in, a lot of things to check against other sources, and a lot of things to pray over. This book has strengthened my resolve in the validity of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, as well as the validity of the content of the Bible as a whole. I recommend it for anyone who has questions about their faith, and anyone prejudiced against it.
It's been a while since I first read this, but all-in-all I thought it was a very well written and researched book on Christian apologetics. I am not one to say that the Bible and science clash, and McDowell doesn't think so either. Many have opposed this book, saying it did not get all the facts right, but that is all stipulation. No one has it all right. He makes a big claim here and offers evidence to substantiate that evidence. For that I give the book five stars.
There's a lot of interesting stuff here. I'd like to read the updated version, as some of the material in this edition is a little dusty. It seems overly biased in some spots, and the Christian faith still requires faith, but overall this is a valuable resource for the Christian seeking more information about the faith or the agnostic open to exploring Christianity's claims.
Tough slog, hence 3 stars, but it also has 5 stars in so much great information. I too hope to not only finish reading this tome but also absorb at least part of the indisputable information brought together by McDowell.
What an excellent book that "just sticks to the facts ma'am" I read this years ago and can't wait to read the follow up versions. When reading the Bible, not knowing the culture at the time can hinder some of the revelations that the Bible is eager for us all to know. Simply, an excellent read.
Hard to follow at times, but contained some hard to find condensed biographical references to historical, archeological, biblical and other experts in their respective fields.
I read this book while taking the course Christianity Explored at my church. A great book. a bit academic.
The claims are so profound and controversial to some, I owed the book a reading.
It simply means, there is a good chance he did since he was a controversial figure and other evidence the book presents.
When I asked a renown psychologist what he thought of the book and the idea of heaven, he replied "I'll just have to wait and see if the Heaven Jesus talks mahout is true".
I dont care about my credibility when there is a 'good chance' I could be separated from God if I do not believe.
