https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8546358-the-peach-keeper
There's not really anything about "peach keeping" in the story except one little thing near the end that feels like it was tossed in to justify the title.
The story's about four thirty-year-olds who finally come to terms with high school pettiness and decide to get on with their lives.
I couldn't really relate because I pretty much forgot high school slights and disappointments by the time I was about twenty-one.
Do thirty-year-olds really confront each other about stupid stuff they did as teenagers?
I never attended any of my high school reunions, so I wouldn't know.
The story felt pretty silly to me.
Rating 3.5The Peach Keeper tells the story of the people that live in Walls of Water, North Carolina.
The story is a bit about that restoration, the grand gala that is being thrown for it, the people that it brings together, and the unearthing of stories that have remained buried for years.I liked this one, but expected a bit more from it.
I love Sarah Addison Allen and will read anything that she writes.
I missed the magical realism that is dripping in her other stories, her love of food that she usually weaves into her stories.I listened to this one via audio and it was OK.
I should have known when I saw there was magic realism which I almost never enjoy(it usually feels like a deux ex machina to me), though all the goodreads reviewers said there was less of it here than in Sarah Addison Allen's other books so I had some hope.
I will also say that one scene made me smile -- at a meeting of the ladies' club early in the book, through some bizarre means (I think this was part of the magic realism) all the women suddenly revealed their inner thoughts, such as, "I know you go to the bathroom a lot because you have a bladder problem but I tell everyone you're bulimic." A little refreshing bitchiness in an otherwise treacly sweet story.
These are the things you can count on, and THE PEACH KEEPER doesn't disappoint in the slightest.Willa Jackson returned to the stifling confines of her hometown of Walls of Water, North Carolina eight years ago when her father died.
Against her better judgement, Willa is drawn into the disturbing events up on Jackson Hill and into the lives of the Osgood family once more.I'll go ahead and say that I went in wondering whether THE PEACH KEEPER would fall more along the lines of Ms. Addison's first two novels (Garden Spells and The Sugar Queen) or her most recent third book The Girl Who Chased the Moon.
There is just something about Sarah Addison Allen's writing that makes you fall in love with reading all over again.
In the Peach Keeper, her fourth book, Allen takes us back to North Carolina and to the town of Walls of Water.
Now the two of them develop a friendship that will with stand the test of time.The cast of supporting characters, Sebastian, the local dentist and once outcast; Colin, Paxton's twin brother; Rachel, the coffee-ologist (I don't think this is really a word, but hey it works) and their grandmothers, Agatha and Georgie make for a delightful read.
Willa Jackson and Paxton Osgood come together to honor their grandmothers.
Along the way they find a mysterious murder, what your coffee order says about you, and most importantly- themselves.
Sarah Addison Allen always introduces a number of interesting characters and we even got a glimpse of the Waverlys catering a party- which was a nice surprise.
My favorite parts about this one was the Blue Ridge Madam- the house that Willa & Paxton fix up, and the coffee shop where the barista discovers what your coffee order says about yourself.
These two women weave two separate stories, but ultimately end up twisting together.
I have read Sarah Addison Allen's previous books, and I have generally enjoyed them.
It sounded like an interesting story, with all the small-town elements I enjoy.
And the problem is, the basic plot elements are really interesting: a skeleton found beneath a peach tree on an old derelict plantation being renovated.
I felt like every word these people spoke to each other was an overwrought greeting-card of sentimental crap, burying the good plot elements Allen introduces, only to never talk about again.
I was very disappointed by this story, and I will think twice about picking up another Allen novel.
Unfortunately, once the first bite has been taken you find yourself chewing and chewing waiting for a burst of juicy fruit or a satisfying custard filling but instead finding a lot of puff pastry and air.I really, really wanted to read this novel, expecting a driving plot or strong character development that fleshes out the subplot of love, friendship and death.
By the end of the book, I felt robbed of my time spent reading it and frustrated because it seems the author wanted to hedge her bets and give us a little knowledge about several characters but not enough for us to fall in love with one or two.
The Blue Ridge Madam—built by Willa’s great-great-grandfather and once the finest home in Walls of Water, North Carolina—has stood for years as a monument to misfortune and scandal......a skeleton is found buried beneath the property’s lone peach tree, long-kept secrets come to lightThese words got me reading this book.
If anyone had been paying attention to the signs, they would have realized that air turns white when things are about to change, that paper cuts mean there’s more to what’s written on the page than meets the eye, and that birds are always out to protect you from things you don’t see.Georgie Jackson's great-grandfather built the stately old home for his beautiful young wife, but Agatha Osgood's family would become the new owners in 1936.
I mean, Colin felt like his youth was rough because his friends considered him to be tightly wound?
And what were Paxton's reasons for staying in her parents' house so long?
I felt like the story would have had more integrity if the author would have allowed him to remain gay and then had Paxton deal with that reality as an adult.
That's the sort of thing that makes an adult, not merely moving out of your parents' house.
If you want to read Addison Allen, read Garden Spells or The Sugar Queen.
Sarah Addison Allen writes magic: her stories are full of strong Southern women, sweetness and secrets.
In The Peach Keeper: A Novel, she once again weaves a wonderful tale of two Southern women, distant in the present but bound together by the past and a powerful secret.
Secrets belonging to Willa's grandmother Georgie and Paxton's grandmother Adele.
Their unlikely alliance leads each woman to discover something special and magical about herself, love and the power of friendship.I am a huge admirer of Sarah Addison Allen's work.
The Peach Keeper: A Novel tells a wonderful story of love, loss and regrets.
That story was ten times more riveting than this one, and the language in it was far more believable than the language in The Peach Keeper.
Some of the events are interesting - like when the ladies' club meeting goes horribly wrong because everyone tells the person next to her what she really thinks of her, as if they've all suddenly lost control of their own ability to filter their speach.
However, like so many other events in the book, this isn't really a big deal, and it's still a lose end by the end.
Her stories have a special kind of magic to them, a combination of bitter and sweet, dark and light that is done so seamlessly I am in awe of her.
I long to live in the world she's created, to eat flowers that will make me fall in love or have books follow me around, to meet a very tall man who checks his empty dryer for frogs or live in a room with mood changing wallpaper.Ms. Allen looks for magic in this world, magic of the everyday-ordinary variety and that of the extraordinary, the impossible, the impracticable, but mostly love's magic and the bounds between not just lovers but sisters, friends, mothers and daughters.
The kind of magic that makes you laugh and cry, swoon and sigh.
The kind of magic you hope to find every time you open a book.
3 stars ("I liked the book")Sweet.
These are the words I would use to describe this fluffy, happy read--the first book by Addison Allen I've read (though it won't be my last).
I enjoy these family-secrets novels, where everything works out in the end, generations come together, and everyone learns to love and understand each other.
I thought the magical realism seemed tacked on and unnecessary (though I do normally enjoy magical realism), but no complaints otherwise.
Definitely a "feel-good" book.I listened to the audiobook and I disliked the reader (she read really slowly and kind of had a sugary voice).
Another lovely read from Sarah Addison Allen, complete with quirky, memorable characters, a touch of magic, and enough whimsy to catch your breath.
As well as the two blossoming romances in the book, there was the welcomne inclusion of a character from a previous novel -- Claire from "Garden Spells" -- and it's delightful how the books are weaving together across locations and events not far from each other.
At some points haunting, poignant and sad, and at others amusing, hopeful and romantic, this was a delicious and quick read perfect for lazy weekend afternoons or chilled bath times.
Why oh why did I take this long to ever read this author??? I absolutely LOVED this book. I am a fan of chick lit and southern fiction and this was the best of both. This will not be the last I read of Sarah Addison Allen.....
Such a sweeping story that captured my heart from the beginning. Highly recommend!My Rating: 5 stars
I definitely laughed too much.Sebastian Rogers' reveal of: (view spoiler)[ He's the town dentist and he has been living as a gay man for about 30 years, but Paxton Osgood, the local rich girl, fixed that in one day.
(hide spoiler)]Paxton Osgood's reveal of: (view spoiler)[ - She felt a touch lonely for a second because she lived with her parents in their mansion, and she wished she could keep a box of doughnuts and liquor around; but her mother, her father, her brother, her social life running The Women's Society Club, her professional life running an outreach center, visiting her cranky old grandmother in the nursing home, managing the opening up of an Inn property she bought, etc.
“…If you’re lucky enough to find [true friendship], you hold on to it, hold on and never let it go…”The Peach Keeper isn’t the first novel I’ve had the pleasure of experiencing by Sarah Addison Allen.
However, I have to say that The Peach Keeper is by far my favorite.This novel takes place in Walls of Water, North Carolina at a time when the Woman’s Society Club is planning their 75 Annual Gala.
What Paxton, the current President to the Woman’s Club, doesn’t know are the deep seeded secrets that are buried in the house.
I have to say I'm a bit disappointed that there wasn't more magical realism in this. There's a bare hint of something paranormal, but not enough to make it anything more than a contemporary romance. I did like it well enough when seen in that light. But although there was potential for both magical and gothic atmosphere, they just weren't fleshed out enough. And there's not much to do with keeping peaches, either.
There is something extremely satisfying in reading a book cover to cover in one sitting, even if the book is mediocre at best.
Sadly, this description fits The Peach Keeper: mediocre.
The problem is that I felt the author had not decided what she wanted this book to be.
Then there was the problem of the central theme.
Instead, she gives the dual romances much more story time than they deserved, unless they were intended to support a central theme which managed to elude me.In short, this book failed to thrill.
Τέσσερις διαφορετικοί, νέοι άνθρωποι, που αφήνουν τις καταστάσεις να τους ορίζουν.
Τους ανθρώπους, τον τόπο τους, τις αναμνήσεις τους.
Είτε συμβιβάζονται και αποδέχονται, είτε τρέχουν να ξεφύγουν, τελικά δεν μπορούν να ξεπεράσουν το Γουόλς οφ Γουότερ και ότι αυτό συμβολίζει.
Θα συνειδητοποιήσουν όμως ότι μόνοι τους ξεχωριστά δεν θα μπορούν να τα βγάλουν πέρα, η ενστικτώδης αλληλεγγύη θα οδηγήσει σε ουσιαστική φιλία και η φιλία θα δείξει τον δρόμο για την προσωπική τους ευτυχία.Ύφος απλό, με όμορφες περιγραφές, παροιμιώδεις ατάκες, ρομαντικές προλήψεις και τρυφεροί χαρακτήρες… κλασική Άλεν."Η ευτυχία είναι ρίσκο.
Σίγουρα, δεν είναι βιβλίο για κηπουρούς και για όσους αγαπούν τα δέντρα και τα φυτά!Στην ιστορία μπερδεύονται και (οι απαραίτητοι) 2 άντρες αλλά και οι 2 γιαγιάδες των κοριτσιών.
Μέχρι να αποκαταστήσω τους ήρωες, όπως γίνεται σε ένα συνεπές άρλεκιν, χτίκιασα!Για audio book καλό ήταν αλλά δεν παύει να τοποθετείται από εμένα στο άυλο ράφι των not-for-me.Το εξώφυλλο θα έπρεπε να περιλαμβάνει μόνο το κλαδάκι της ροδακινιάς, ως φόρο τιμής στο ξεριζωμένο δέντρο της άπονης συγγραφέως!
I'm going to say this is her best book yet.
Another romantic and adventuresome story with fantastic writing about magic, mystery, love and friendship.
Sarah Addison Allen is so unique; while you can always expect big elements of magic and mystery, each story goes in a direction that is its own fairy tale.
Each of her characters have their quirks but you root that the twists and turns in the story will go in their favor and they will have the "happily ever after" ending.
If you have liked SAA's other books, you simply will not be disappointed with this one.
"If you make room in your life, good things will enter."What a lovely book! It's the story of two women, Willa and Paxton, who live in a small town in North Carolina. The women have never been friends, but an unearthed mystery and a secret held by their grandmothers will bring them together.I enjoyed "The Peach Keeper" so much I plan on reading the author's other books.
(stressed reading maybe???) I liked it okay.
Pros: light hearted, quick read, easy characters, fun bits of history for the family.
if you're in the mood for a cute and easy story- here you go.Cons: Out of the books I have read by this author it is my least favorite.
The magical elements weren't presented as well either.If you like this author you will want to read it, just for your collection of stories and the way she tells them, but if you like a deeper read or something a little more substantial, you won't miss anything by skipping this one.
That her grandmother was missing from society for a time, that she was pregnant, HELLLO...Sarah painted Willa as a smart character, someone who picks up on things...it really frustrated me that Willa didn't have her "AHHA moment" much much sooner.
Also - I don't understand why the grandmothers are no longer "friends" - yes, for a short time, there was a distance, but at the end of the book, it's perfectly clear that the women came back together and were tighter than ever.
★★★★✩ Audiobook well narrated by Karen White.Sisterhood  is  powerful. If you want to read a book about women, friendships, tradition, power, regret, love, loss and finding an enduring strength, this is the book for you. Plus, I love a good murder mystery, especially if a ghost is thrown into the mix.SAA has a deft hand at writing books for the magical realism genre and I've delighted in most of them, none more than Garden Spells. But this one runs a close second. (Though I have yet to read The
If you want to read a book about women, friendships, tradition, power, regret, love, loss and finding an enduring strength, this is the book for you.
Plus, I love a good murder mystery, especially if a ghost is thrown into the mix.SAA has a deft hand at writing books for the magical realism genre and I've delighted in most of them, none more than Garden Spells.
(Though I have yet to read The Sugar Queen.) Almost too much time spent on high-school issues, but hey, I loved Willa's surprise reveal.
(hide spoiler)]Loved some of the quotes on revenge in this book; especially this one:
It is the perfect setting with its lush greenery and fog that can be captured in a jar for this magical realism novel filled with the paranormal events after the body of Tucker Devlin is unearthed during the renovation of the Blue Ridge Madam, the former home of Georgie Jackson, the grandmother of Willa one of the main characters.
When Tucker's body is discovered, secrets about Paxton and Willa's family are also unearthed.
This novel holds everything that the author writes best in all of her greatest books...magic, food, superstitions, and family.
After that I have literally gobbled up everything this author has offered and I happy to say that I really enjoyed this one.
I actually felt like I was watching a version of "Practical Magic" while I was reading this book.
I enjoyed the southern location.
Allen once again serves up a great cast of characters along with food that had my mouth watering.
Absolutely..if this is your first time reading Allen you will not be disappointed and I'm sure it will cause you to search out her other magical creations!
But I'm sure that is what Sarah intended all along....she's magical that way!!!
