https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40372.Pirates_of_Venus
One without out the dry preachings of politics.
I want a simple epic story." After saying this, I went down to my local Pike's Peak library and picked up the first two books in Edgar Rice Burrough's Venus series.
I, being a virgin to Burroughs, did not know what to expect.
This simple book was the change I wanted from the dry complexities of classics to simple freshness of an old science fiction.
I've heard that Carson Napiers is in no comparison a John Carter, but Carson is my first Burroughs, therefore he is my John Carter.
I thought Carson would be the same, but started the book and lost interest even before Carson landed on ERB’s fictional Venus.When I needed bedtime reading the other night (I didn’t want my last waking thoughts to be either Napoleon in the lengthy volume I’m reading about the First Consul/Emperor, the detailed rhetorical critical analysis of Isaiah 46, 47 and 48 that I’ve been delving into, or the book that takes Dawkins and Hitchens to task from a scientific perspective.), I almost picked up a novel by William Gibson but felt like cyberpunk was too depressing for where my head was at.
Lo mismo de siempre pero con diferentes personajes y planeta.Aventurero guapetón terrícola, quiere viajar a Marte porque se aburre de su placentera vida. Consigue que le concedan el placer gracias a un cohete. Este pepino se desvía de su trayectoria y llega a Venus, planeta dominado por razas diferentes. El honorable terrestre se enamorara y luchara. Se lee en nada y se disfruta como nada.
Did not finish. Reasons to come soon.
The plot is vintage (cliché?) Burroughs--stalwart Earthman finds himself alone on an alien world, rescues a beautiful princess, wins her love, and becomes the ruler of a mighty empire. Although there is nothing new in the plot, ERB at his best has a way of writing a tale that just zings along from adventure to adventure in a very enjoyable way, making for fast, fun, escapist reading. This is the literary equivalent of comfort food.
Don't let the name fool you, this isn't your typical 70's sci-fi novel, mainly because it was written in the 30's. That means that you will go on a planet hopping adventure pre lunar landing era. That was a time when most fantasy and sci-fi had heavy Greek, and Mesopotamia leanings so you will see many alien cultures coincidently resembling them. Also expect aliens who are little different then man, only altered by slight differences in stature, skin color, and bizarre alien customs.  This story
This story starts a little strangely by the author using one of his character from a different book series that he had written, the Tarzan adventures.
He is met by the book's main character who learned astral projection in India.
The feeling of adventure you have when you follow the first person perspective of this main character is almost overwhelming, drawing you into this magical world where anything could be possible because, well, it's a different planet and there anything could happen.
If you love lost world story lines and epic adventure where you sit back in anticipation dying to see what happens next then you'll love this book.
I have the Ace edition of this. Carson Napier, the hero, is no John Carter, but the Venus series is fun and inventive. This is the first in the series but ends rather abruptly and you need to go immediately to the next, "Lost on Venus," to get closure.Still, you've gotta love ERB's endless inventive imagination.
Pirates of Venus is fairly obviously a sci-fi adventure.
One which has all the quirks of early sci-fi.
We have incredibly outdated science (after all, Venus is now known to be uninhabitable for life as we know it, let alone for complex humanoid populations and massive vegetation).
But as it is, it is a perfectly serviceable adventure, inasmuch as there is drama and intrigue, action and suspense, and this all does its job fine as long as we do our job, which is to read such work without being overcritical.
The story ends on a cliffhanger.
That will remain to be seen, but if I were to stumble upon it, I wouldn't be averse to continuing the story.
So politically incorrect that sometimes it's physically painful to read but seeing as this is 1930s pulp science fiction, anyone who picks it up shouldn't be shocked. Yet so grotesquely campy, it was impossible for me to stop reading. It's like a train wreck in slow motion. Swashbuckling aliens in loin cloths battling with ray guns and swords. Oh and bird men. And a supremely virginal princess complete with heaving bosom...God forgive me, it was too ridiculously funny to put down.
In our quest to conquer the science fiction classics, we ended up needing to read two books from Edgar Rice Burroughs. The first was Princess of Mars, the second was Pirates of Venus. Princess of Mars was rip-roaring dimestore fun that made you grin the entire time you were reading it. Pirates of Venus... was not.Full review up later.
My remembered impression of the Venus series was that it ranked among ERB's best, and on this return the first book of the set did not disappoint.
No is a contraction of not (with), and is used as a prefix with the same value that the suffix y has in English; therefore nobar means hairy, nobargan, hairy man.
The prefix kloo forms the plural, and we have kloonobargan (hairy men), savages.The average reader, I think, impatiently skips over that stuff.
This is the first in Edgar Rice Burroughs' 5th sf/adventure series, and it is a huge step down from Tarzan, Barsoom, Pellucidar, and Caspak.
Carson Napier, who can astrally project himself to anywhere on Earth, decides that isn't enough, and builds a spaceship to Mars.
(Burroughs still playing along with Arrhenius' 1918 speculation that Venus was a swamp.
Napier learns the language, and the action sometimes stops so the reader can be clued on the plural forms of Venusian nouns.
There has been a revolution on Venus and the lower class has forced their opponents to hide far away, after purging as many of them as possible (mostly people with an education).
Here we have a main character  who is only 27 and he has so far managed to finance, build, and fly a spaceship.
Carson has mastered the arts of mentally projecting his body and best of all, he has taken up fencing classes in Germany.Me, I can barely get up in the morning.With a character like this we are in safe hands and in for a good ride!
I'm relatively new to the work of ERB, but it seems to me he just keeps writing the same story over and over. This was not as much fun as The Moon Maid, was a real struggle to finish, and ends on a cliffhanger.
Sometimes Burroughs isn't so good, but in this case, in spite of a few "coincidences" that shade into disbelief, PIRATES is a fun "space" adventure with plenty of action and a fairly realistic and likeable protagonist ... Not great literature, by any means, but a fun way to pass a gloomy afternoon ...
Burroughs has a formula and all of his stories are the same. But he does it differently so well. His worlds are real. Good guys are good, bad guys are bad. Good triumphs. This is the martian series set in Venus. I like the martian series just slightly better, but they are close. Read dozens of times over the years and every book is just as good as the first
Thoroughly enjoyable - you must keep in mind that it was published in 1932, however.This is good ol' fashioned sci-fi. Highly imaginative but not far from the human experience. Plot moves very quickly, characters although alien and somewhat shallow nonetheless work well.
Burroughs, though, bird-men and dog-crabs notwithstanding, takes the science and the society seriously.And so tells the story of Carson Napier, who sets course for Mars, hits Venus, and underneath two levels of cloud cover finds vast societies of near-immortal very human-like peoples along with the aforementioned bird-men, dog-crabs, and some mean-ass giant spiders.I was immediately struck by the framing story.
The authors know the science is moot and assume readers who are going to pick up something like that don’t care so they wind up treating it in a way that’s silly and, worse, boring.The entire sequence is surprisingly drawn out, and Burroughs manages to imbue it with a great deal of suspense and creeping terror given the reader can pretty well guess from the title Carson will survive to land on Venus.
This book, which is as much fantasy as science fiction, is so shoddily imagined that I could not be bothered to finish it.Shoddy fantasy: in chapter 1 the narrator has a psychic visitation in his room.
Then the sender of the visitation comes to his office building, is allowed in by security, a secretary, is brought to the narrator's office by a colleague.
It's shoddy fantasy.Shoddy science: in chapter 2 the narrator prepares to embark on a rocket to Mars: "the giant torpedo lay on its mile-long track".
The first of five Carson Napier novels involving the planet Venus.
Burroughs' novels are sometimes muddling, but at his best, he really could spin a tale.
Pirates of Venus is one of his really good, non-Tarzan works of fiction.
The story line is well thought out, and while his descriptions of the planet Venus are fantastical and scientifically wrong, they do not alter the story's credibility one bit.
This is an action packed tale, but one that focuses on planning, character interaction, travel and adventure as opposed to pages and pages of brutality like that portrayed in The Gods of Mars.I read the ERVville Press edition which was transcribed form the original magazine texts.
Entretenido libro de aventuras, sin mucho sentido, pero se da el tiempo de crear un mundo y un lenguaje propio, que enriquece la historia. La historia en si no es más que un montón de desventuras donde el protagonista salva de la muerte en el último minuto.
In this first of Edgar Rice Burroughs' Venus novels, the hero, Carson Napier, builds a rocket hoping to get to Mars, but due to a miscalculation (!) ends up on Venus. Underneath the clouds he discovers the world of Amtor, where the typical ERB adventures await him. And he meets the princess Duare.
An easy introduction to the world of E.R.Burroughs' Venus, where a heroic earth man fights through adventure driven by love. While it's rather short, the setting changes far too often. What could have been a great story, seemed to have been far too rushed.
Once againI have read this book many years ago and couldn't put it down . this time was the same! On to book 2
This one was the selection of the library book club ... and fell into the category of "taking one for the team".
Real bad. Not even charming in the old timey pulp way.
The Mars series may be better known but E.R.B.'s ability to make up a world really shines in this.
Better than Lost On Venus.
The kidnappers later return and this time succeed.Meanwhile, on a hunting trip with his new best friend Kamlot, they are captured by bird-men and taken to be slaves on the Sofal, a Thoran ship.Napier organises a revolt and the ‘pirates’ take over the ship, shortly afterwards capturing another and in the process rescuing Duare, Napier’s mysterious woman who turns out to be (it will come as no surprise to anyone) a princess.The princess is kidnapped once more.
Always lovely to go back to the classics. With all the old fashioned morality, views and all that other stuff, you still can't take it away from a rollicking pulp sci fi opera!
