https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425452.Le_voyageur_sans_bagage
How are you feeling?Man: Like I was hit by Airbus.
Man: Actually, who the hell am I?Nurse: Well, sir, you received quite a knock on the head.
Man: Gee, do you know why I was hit by duck?
Man: (Shudders) Ugh, surely that can’t be right.
I’m sure it can’t have been my gun.
Man: Could you turn on the radio while you go?
Nurse: Sure thing.
The nurse turns the radio knob.
Do you know more?Nurse: I’m afraid not sir.
Nurse: It’s you!
I love books in which the basic theme is that the hero discovers who he is, and that he's not, in fact, a very nice person.
And in L'Âge de Raison, Mathieu, who'd prefer to think of himself as a nice guy who just wants to keep his freedom, learns that he's actually the kind of person who'll steal money from a friend in order to pay for his mistress's abortion.
Writing this down, I do wonder for a moment if it's possible that I'm not as good a person as I imagine?
Traveller Without Luggage,a play about aFrench World War I soldier who suffered amnesia after war,many families claim him as being their son.he escapes his previous identity as a cruel and dishonest man, who tortured animals, , injured his best friend in a fight causing him a physical disability, and making a relation with his brother’s wife. ... he tries to denies that he was this monster....
مسرحيه المسافر بلا متاع للكاتب الفرنسي جان آنوي تحكى المسرحيه عن شاب ينتمى الى احدى الاسر الثريه يتط
Funny, but one of the most distressing books I've ever read. Such a sad, sad portrait of man. But still well worth the read.
Amnesia! Mistaken identity! French!A good one. We read it for class and acted out various scenes. It's almost like I was once proficient in French or something.
The only book I ever managed to read in French. All I remember is somebody throwing the protagonist down a flight of stairs and yelling, "Petit salaut!" (= little bastard).
À travers cette pièce en 5 tableaux, Jean Anouilh interroge l'utilisation individuelle du passé. Le devoir de mémoire doit-il se transformer en tyrannie ? Et quand le passé empêche de devenir celui que l'on est, et que l'on veut devenir, a-t-on le droit de l'oublier ? Une pièce qui ne laisse pas indifférent.
من المسرح الفرنسى تحكى عن أحد الجنود الذى فقد ذاكرتة كليا خلال تأديتة الخدمة والواجب الوطنى مع بلادة أثناء الحرب العالمية الأولى وتوابعها ,تجتهد إحدى الأميرات الفرنسية فى لعب دور الوسيط لمحاولة التوصل إلى أصلة ونسبة , بالتوازى يستغل إبن أخيها - الطبيب - ذللك الجندى الفاقد لتاريخة كفأر تجارب حيث يجرى علية بعض العمليات التى تفخر بها عمتة ولا يكترث لها ذلك الجندى المسكين .
يقابل عائلة تزعم نسبه إليهم ويقصوا علية قصص و حكاوى منفرة يشيب لها شعر الوليد , فيستمع تارة ويستنكر تارة أخرى ويهرب ويراوغ تارة اخيرة.
To be quite honest, I can't really remember much about this book. I do recall that I had a hard time getting through it. Why I had problems getting through it is hard to answer. It may be that I was going through a difficult time while I was reading for whatever reason.Oops. Time to go. Hope to get back to this soon. Have to interrupt now.
*The translation I read was from this edition: Jean Anouilh: Seven Plays
le passé !! la fuit !! la vérité !! Mais, est-ce que l'homme pourrais faire face à son passé ,surtout, s'il etait plein de taches noires?!! Je ne crois pas !!
Traveller without Luggageاین نمایش نامه ی ژان آنویی توسط افضل وثوقی به فارسی ترجمه شده و انتشارات روز آن را در 1347 چاپ و منتشر کرده است.
This is a fabulous analysis of how nurture can sour one's innate nature - and, on the other hand, how one's true character can overcome.
Quite possibly the worst play I've ever read.
Livre préféré pendant un long moment...
I read this for my introduction to French literature class when I was a junior in college. Wasn't my favorite….maybe because I had to look up so many words lol
This was a good one. It's about amnesia and, not surprisingly, identity. I read it in college, and I still have it. I want to read it again to refresh my memory.
Not a recommended read. Very unpredictable yet unrealistic, unlikable characters, cheap plot devices, bad ending.
I liked this book. Even though i didn't really appreciate the ending.
c'était bien je pense
