https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128755.Cross_Bones
In book 8, Dr. Temperance Brennan finds herself traveling from Montreal to Israel to track down a killer and the mystery behind ancient skeletal remains that could turn the lives of the religious faithful upside down.I'm going to put aside the fact that there's a lot of Dan Brown comparisons in the book.
I think having some background on the history and the places made me feel as if I was returning home.
Although the killer took me surprise in the end, it's only because I was thinking so big when the answer was so obvious.
but not my favorite?Cross Bones is the 8th installment for the Temperance Brennan series.
In it, Temperance is travelling from Montreal to Israel.
Well, it's to track down some mysterious killer and solve a slightly religious murder.
but I didn't really care for the religious take this time around.
The only thing that kept me engaged was trying to figure out who the real killer was ...and after finding that out, I was shocked.
I liked that I had no idea who the killer was and now I can't wait to dive into the next audio - whenever that will happen.Overall, it was okay.
Since it's not, I rounded down.I'm a huge fan of the TV show "Bones." So when I encountered this book by "Bones" creator Kathy Reichs at a second-hand bookstore, I grabbed it, thinking that of course I would like the book too.I was kind of wrong.
Reichs's writing style is somewhat staccato - her descriptive prose is written in half-thoughts, like she's checking off items on a list, sort of the way her brain probably works while she's examining skeletal remains at her day job.
It cost a dollar, and I don't like to dismiss an author out of hand, having read only one of her books.
I read murder mysteries when my brain needs a rest and I want to escape.
I tend to find an author and read all of her/his work beginning with the first book published.
That's what I've done with Kathy Reich with the exception of this book.
Reich does great research, and she has clearly been to the places about which she is writing.
Perhaps that's because her research needed to be impeccable when addressing the subject matter of the the ongoing religious conflict between Jews, Christians and Muslims.
In this one Tempy is called to examine centuries old bones supposedly retrieved from the Massada massacre site of biblical times.
People have already paid with their lives in trying to acquire this skeleton, which she calls Massada Max. A couple of archeologists are of the view that the skeleton is of Christ himself.
Theories abound that Christ died as a ripe old man after having progeny of his own, and amidst an extended family.
Tempy is drawn to Israel, in the wake of the finding, and , as usual lives are in danger.
And gone are the quasi-teenaged approach in regards to how Tempe handles her relationship with Ryan.A murdered orthodox Jew turns up in Montreal, shot execution style.
A photo showing an old skeleton that was unearthed in Israel.
A very special skeleton that supposedly has ties to the murder victim.
Even the latest Robin Cook book has a similar theme: an ancient finding shrouded in mystery that could turn long standing modern religious dogma on its ear.
Robin Cook's latest book, Intervention, had the same type of plot profile, only this book was done to much better effect.No more seemingly unrelated family dramas for Tempe in this book.
Honestly, I want to give the book 1.5 stars, but it won't let me.
For series, a one star means I definitely won't read the next book, but in this case, I probably will.
At an autopsy of a Jewish importer in Montreal, Brennan is handled a photo of a skeleton unearthed at Masada, but the skeleton was never included in the official reports.
Second, I know narrative tension arises when the protagonist puts himself or herself in danger.
My least favorite Temperance Brennan book, so far, let's hope they get better, or the next one will be getting one star.
Instead of using a plot, she advances the action by having the main character ask herself redundant questions - sometimes eight of them in a row.
She is so unconfident in her writing skills that she puts a stupid cliffhanging statement at the end of each chapter.
Her characters are lame and predictable, her plots forced and her endings contrived.
Its my first and last of this series, and actually I rented the audiobook because Barbara Rosenblat was narrating it, and I figured whatever she did was worth listening to.
After narrating such fine authors as Nevada Barr and Elizabeth Peters, she must have suffered through this one.
Started to read this and realised I have in fact already read it years ago, it wasn't my favourite of the series so far, I am no longer a fan of 'Da Vinci Code' and conspiracy theory plot lines but I will continue with the series and hope they return to more familiar themes.
While working on a case involving the murder of a Jewish merchant, a picture of an old skeleton is given to her by an anonymous person who thinks it's the reason the merchant was killed.
Digging deeper (no pun intended), she actually ends up in possession of the skeleton in the picture she received (quite likely found at Masada) and there's a strong chance that the identity of the bones could really mess up some major theology for a number of groups.
Brennan has to stay alive, figure out if the bones belong to Jesus Christ, and try and solve the murder of the merchant, all at the same time.
Yes, it was largely based on archaeological and anthropological facts and recent (within the last 60 years) expeditions and discoveries.
Yes, in that regard it was better than the DaVinci Code by Dan Brown.
However, the book gave a great buildup with the main storyline, but was a huge let down when it came time to wrap it up and connect all the dots.
It's as if she got to the end and decided she was just as tired of writing it as I was of reading it and then just ended it real quick to put the book and everyone else out of there misery.
Good book. Mystery surrounding bones that were discovered at Masada and the characters are romping through Israel for this book. I enjoy these books and this plot definitely caught my attention. The end was not as good as the rest of the story but all in all kept me turning the pages. I like these books.
Bought this book as I have bought most of Temperance Brennan and not got round to reading most of them, however i picked this book up to read and just didn't fancy the storyline in this one, so I'm afraid I abandoned it.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
If nothing else, she knows how to hook the reader in moving to the next chapter with corny cliffhangers...and some of them are really cornball-- a cheap conversational style of writing at times that just weakens the overall impact of the book.The author has obviously visited the Holy Land and knows the territory fairly well.The Bad--Ryan's constant reference to "tap pants" and other sexual innuendo.
The same problems persist in CSI type stories where the CSI techs act more like detectives...
I know that this is a popular series..
There were those moments but they were used properly so that you end up reflecting instead of trying to understand what you just read.
Sure, Cross Bones involves Jesus controversies but I beleive her and her sources more than I do Dan Brown and his.
I think that this knowledge of the material helped in making the plot more subtle and realistic than The Da Vinci Code.
I've been trying to avoid books like these because they normally turn me into a conspiracy theorist for a limited period of time but my curiosity got the best of me.
While I’m a big fan of the television show “Bones”, I’m a bigger fan of Kathy Reichs and the Temperance Brennan books.
Fighting through rough archeological sites, religious zealots who are determined to make sure Tempie doesn’t take anything from their country, and a murderer on the loose, they have their work cut out for them.Kathy Reichs write an intelligent, beautiful, twisty-and-turny mystery that always keeps the readers on their toes.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good mystery, anyone who likes “Bones”, and anyone who is in need of a wonderful series to pick up.
Maybe because I understand the humor, the religious references, among other things, without a guide-book that others WILL require when reading it if they are non-initiated as far as Judaism is concerned, but basically this one book just puts so many other crime-based fiction novels to shame.
It's chilling, it's deep, it's fascinating, yet it lacks nothing in terms of humor andthe crime-fighting factor we have all come to know from "Bones" as a TV show, which is what a lot of people expect to see in the books as well.
This book has a fantastic balance of everything and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
However because of the main character being a forensic anthropologist I stuck with it and was pleasantly surprised.Yes there is a slight conspiracy theory theme to do with ancient remains that may or may not be that of Jesus but I wasn't bombarded with heavy religious doctrine and corrupt church officials.
This is one cypher themed book that didn't bore me to tears and Kathy Reichs' background in forensics lends a real authenticity to the detailed descriptions of bone formation and the like.My first Kathy Reichs definitely won't be my last.”
I find it very comforting to be able to pick up any novel in this series and know that I'll find the plot and the science both comprehensive and interesting.
Reichs manages to toe the line between the complex science of forensic work especially forensic anthropology and the intriguing detective work of the plot lines expertly.
I find myself as interested in the science as I am by the case.
This is one of the more complex Reichs novels I've read purely because it involves topics which could be very controversial.
However, I think Reichs manages to do so in such a way that is respectful to all involved.
Jakes telling her not to contact anyone about the pictures and then the bones that are found, but keeps putting her when she asks questions.
Instead he is flying here there and back and still no forthcoming answers to her partially formed questions.It seems the bones might be those of Jesus and then theories revolving around beliefs about a possible family.
With all the possibilities being put forward, I was interested to see how the story would wrap up and what conclusions they would arrive at, but an explosion conveniently puts to rest the author having to draw any conclusions.
I have heard others by her and watch the tv show Bones based on this character.
This book was strange because it was about finding bones that might have been Jesus'.
It helped to have a fiery car crash with a sacred shroud and bones burning up and the other set of maybe Jesus' bones getting stolen by a group of Jews who believe no bones should be disturbed so they secretly buried them and even under threat of death would not reveal the whereabouts.
Makes you think about all the "bible" stories groups have made up throughout the years.
I have been following this series of books for many years now and have always enjoyed every reading experience.
Recently I have revisited them again as my daughter wanted me to buddy read them with her after discovering the television series and then seeing the books in our bookshelves.
I am glad I read the books before seeing some of the television show because otherwise I may not have liked them quite so much.
Really interesting, but also really technical.The number of pages of technical explanation really slowed the book down for those who, like me, aren't really up on the subject and not fanatically interested in a text on it.However, the story was fascinating, being based on the latest archeological finds and studies by Bible scholars. Always something new - and as in the book, always several people determined to argue about everything due to their own agendas.
If half stars were a thing (sigh!!) I'd give this a 3.5. Good but not her best - glad I stagger the volumes in this series with other reads or I think I'd be really disappointed. Lots of details that never developed into real leads (red herrings, I suppose) but just made everything feel a bit clunky - but hey, would I do any better, gosh no! Will I read the next - heck yeah! Just not right away.
I was looking for more pages. I still don't know how Masada Max was. I might have to take my frustrations out by writing something about him.I am always thrilled by Kathy Reichs work. I have been a fan since I discovered Bones was based on her books. her writing style is scientifically accurate and manages not to make me feel talked down to.I really hope that some day the truth of Masada Max may be known. I also understand it if it never is. Some things are too sacred.
Finished it. Read this before in Dutch, but don't remember a thing. Story was okay, but I found Ryan irritating and I definitely don't like it that there's a relationship between Temperance and Ryan. It's just not right.
I was not expecting this book to be so interesting! It has been compared to Dan Brown's writings, and I would have to agree.
There's no real explanation given for why a Jewish archaeologist would feel the need to go to such lengths to hide a skeleton they believed to be Jesus, so the whole thing comes off as very "the Jews covered it up because that's what they do." In contrast, Jake Drum was set up as a gentile archaeologist trying to bring the truth out from the shadows of the Shady Jewish Conspiracy and into the light.It certainly didn't help that every single named Jewish character in this novel was regarded with suspicion beyond what would normally be expected in a mystery novel.
The story takes us from the morgue in Quebec to the ruins of Masada in Israel and touches on some of the most central tenants of Christianity and Judaic history.The facts are stated in a prologue before the novel and a bit of history into the archeological dig at Masada from 1963-65 is given along with other interesting facts surrounding a true archeological mystery.
Ms. Reich then takes these facts and weaves a tale of greed and murder and faith that has Tempe and Ryan far from home in a land where neither speak the language but well understand the implications of what they might uncover.
