https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6554.Darkness
In Villejuene Kelly meets Michael, another adopted kid with no real problems.
No points for guessing, Kelly and Michael sort of latch on to each other and discover something evil is happening around them.
What I liked best was his description of the swamp – the eerie place where danger is not only from the Darkman but from nature as well.
As an incorrigible whodunit lover, I would have preferred if the identity of the evildoers or the reason behind the conspiracy had been revealed at the end.Overall, it is a decent horror novel, not great but still enjoyable if you like evil in small town and eerie swamps.

Even though Darkness skirts pretty near this particular border, Saul manages to keep it on the right side, i.e. he does manage to keep things believable for the most part.
Believe me, in the context of this particular novel (which could easily have gone either way), this is no mean feat, and pretty important.
It’s just a good old eerie story with a fair bit of psychological wallop.A soft, scratching sound, as if someone had crept onto his front porch.
When I first started reading many years ago John Saul was one of my first authors.
During those years I left behind his works and after reading this one I have no idea why.
I liked the setting of the swamp and using children and teenagers as the victims added to the creepiness.
I am a sucker for supernatural themes that are explained by science (even though the science is ludicrous) and that is prevalent in this novel.
It is an older novel but it entertained me throughout with its eerie setting and supernatural aspects.
I read this book Years ago.. I STILL THINK ABOUT IT AND SHUTTER!This book was absolutely horrifying and riveting.
This was the first book I read from John Saul.I bought this book a million years ago at a yard sale for like 25 cents haha.
I swear this had to bought back when Scott and I first got married and that was 19 years ago!
I even still have this book.John Saul is a great horror author.
But at the end of the day he will scare you!These type of books aren't for everyone and I haven't read anything from him in some time.
But if you don't mind that type of stuff then by all means please read his stuff.
Es el clásico autor que tiene mucho ruido pero pocas nueces. Un pueblo al que acude una familia con problemas. Allí le recibe su padre y abuelo rico. Alguien rapta niños en el pueblo y hay gente que nunca envejece. Los recién llegados se verán involucrados.
Every time I try to read a John Saul book, I think, "Why did I bother?" Yet every so often I will pick one up and hope for the best.
I need to learn from the past.
I couldn't finish this one -- I got about a third of the way through and then just skipped to the end.
And I never skip to the end.
You can be a poor to mediocre writer in certain genres: Danielle Steel and Stephenie Meyer immediately come to mind.
But in the horror genre, the writing needs to work.
It needs to, you know, SCARE you.
Great book that I read way back in 7th grade. The thing took me damn near all year, but a lot of those cryptic and eerie scenes in the swamps stayed with me.For some reason I thought the main character cutting off all her pink hair was a bit odd too.Anyways, for some conspiracy stuff with rich people and swamp folk, this is your bet!
The thing that's always creeped me out about John Saul's writing is his near-obsession with the idea of adults who prolong their lives by stealing youth from children.
Sticking to this theme, Darkness takes place in a quiet Florida town where some residents don't age and many children disappear.(view spoiler)[In Saul's world, the Fountain of Youth is discovered -- it's within each child's thymus gland.
Saul's soul-less children live, but it's a half-life -- they don't cry, rarely laugh, have trouble fitting in, and always feel empty.
(hide spoiler)]I enjoyed the theory -- and the book -- but didn't find it very different from many of Saul's other novels, especially Midnight Voices.

John Saul never ceases to keep the suspense coming!!!
I regretted reading this book...I should have guessed it though by reading his other books...The story was interesting but the ending was horrible.
https://devoratoareadecarti.wordpress...
Ted, a native of Villejuene, and his wife, Mary, agree to leave the life they have built in Atlanta and return to Villejuene following a suicide attempt by their adopted daughter, Kelly, and lack of job prospects for Ted, who has been offered a partnership with his father's booming construction business, aimed at the growing retiree community Villejuene is becoming.Plagued by nightmares of an old man, Kelly has never felt she fit in with the other kids - that she's somehow different -until she meets Michael Sheffield, who feels the same way, right down to having grown up seeing images of the old man himself.
Sometimes I would be thinking that I was still in one character's head, but then get a few paragraphs in and realize the POV had switched to another character.
When writing in omniscient POV, I think it's important to make it clear in the first sentence when there is a POV shift.
I think there were certain passages that were meant to be scary, but they were not written with much suspense.Again, this is not a horrible book, but there are definitely much better works in this genre out there.
Rating : 2 starsRecommendation : Nothing terrifying .Can be skipped.Review: I had picked up a John Saul novel to read after a long time since I had some good memories of the other novels that I had read earlier, particularly "Suffer the Children".
The novel did not provide a feeling of a sense of terror or horror that one would expect when one picks up such a novel.
The novel lacks the pace for the first half of the novel .
Thus I am let down with the novel and would recommend others to look elsewhere for some genuine pulse riding horror novels.

Young Kelly has been haunted for her entire life by the image of an ancient man who seems to want her for some horrible purpose. When her fear finally drives her to brink of suicide, her parents decide that a change of environment is the best thing for their troubled daughter. Little do they know that moving back to their hometown will bring Kelly face to face with her vision, and reveal a twisted medical experiment 40 years in the making. Saul has the knack for taking bizarre and hypothetical d
Young Kelly has been haunted for her entire life by the image of an ancient man who seems to want her for some horrible purpose.
Little do they know that moving back to their hometown will bring Kelly face to face with her vision, and reveal a twisted medical experiment 40 years in the making.
Saul has the knack for taking bizarre and hypothetical diseases or medical procedures, adding a dose of the supernatural, and coming up with a tale that will keep a reader turning pages far past their bedtime.
fantastic!From the location, to the characters to the flow, John Saul absolutely hit this out of the park.extremely well developed characters, that you just cant help but root for. Villians that you hate, but empathize with so deeply.Twists and turns in the story and the ability to jump from a growing develping town to the heart of the swamp are just a few reasons why this book is an absolute MUST read.
A chilling novel about a group of children who have had their souls extracted by a local doctor who has discovered the "fountain of youth" within the thymus gland of young children. This is the first book I've read by John Saul and It wasn't as scary as I was hoping it would be; however, I do look forward to reading other ones!
DarknessDarkness had me in suspense from the beginning to the end. I couldn't put it down. There were so many twists and turns, that every time I thought I had it figured out something new would happen. His imagination has no boundaries. This was an excellent read. I enjoy John Saul's books. He never disappoints me.
This is the first book I read by John Saul and I loved it. I had it finished the day after I started it. I love books that can make me visualize everything going on and this one did that for me. I'll probably read this one again someday.
I'm not sure how to classify this one - horror, thriller, or science fiction - so I chose thriller. If you enjoy any of those three, I think you'll like "Darkness". The action is almost non-stop and I didn't want to put down the book
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...Honestly, it read like a contractual obligation. No real passion, more of an outline with a few panels colored in.
This was difficult to read in the first half. Many times I almost put it down. It finally became more interesting in the second half. Glad I'm through with this book.
Holy crap!! Evil and twisted.
Good Saul novel
This was my first from him, and oh how it reeled me in. Very good!
Good creepy story.
