https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79766.A_Pattern_Language
Actual religious utopians building intentional planned communities don't tend to imagine high tech cities as a way to get spiritual.
Actually attacking a vibrant religion, especially one many of your friends belong too, has way too many social repercussions.If you want a real model for the sort of communities found in Bioshock, then you couldn't really do better than this book.
Alexander is well aware that his intentional planned community won't come about organically by people seeing the sense of his ideas and incorporating them into their lives from the bottom up, first building house according to his principles, then latter building complexes, and latter neighborhoods and finally cities.
This is the book that sparked my interest in architecture and home design, many years ago.
Skip the town and urban planning if you are more interested in how to design a comfortable home.
Christopher Alexander is passionate and persuasive about what he believes we need in our homes: natural light from two sides of a room, window seats one can actually read in, quiet separate dressing areas for every person in a house (because bedrooms should be rooms to relax and be intimate in, not a messy clothes managing area), child caves (because children love to be in tiny, cave-like places), and many things you may have not thought of.
You'll never look at your home the same way again.

Loved the "child in the city" pattern and more.The copy I borrowed from our library had a personal inscription that included this quote:There is nothing stronger or noblerthan when a man and a womanare of one heart in a home--a grief to their enemiesAnd to their friends great joy,But their own hearts know it best.--HomerEDIT: The above review is from November 2010.
Christopher Alexander and his students have collected everything there is to know about design and put it in one book.
For example, there is a pattern, "Old People Everywhere", and Alexander explains why that's the best pattern for humans to follow.
Four stars means the author is pretty sure there are no other patterns for this subject of equal value.
One star means it's a good pattern, but there may be other patterns that serve people well.
So, Alexander went off, with his students, to actually identify the patterns, thus producing "A Pattern Language".
And this is the second half of the book (1st half is "The Timeless Way of Building".1171 pages!!!
Some principles counter-acted others, some are counter-intuitive but quite sensible, others are classic gems.This book in it's exhaustive coverage of all scales of living, might be a guide for God, as if he were moving on to towns and buildings on the 8th day.
And run the path all through the city, down pedestrian streets, through workshops, assembly plants, warehouses, interchanges, print houses, bakeries, all the interesting 'invisible' live of a town - so that the children can roam freely on their bikes and trikes."See what i mean?
Empowered me to think practically about architecture at all scales.
No appraisal or brainstorm on anything architecture, houses or buildings goes by without these patterns popping up in my mind.I now understand why the author himself hated that his 'pattern' approach was appropriated by folks turning it into something abstract (programming patterns) whereas he meant them as an easy, democratic tool for everyday people to make their own neighbourhoods and houses.
Anyone with the luxury of designing their own home should jump at the chance to get this book.
It's a bit dated, but at 1100+ pages it surely describes most of the details you'll need to think about.I took it home from the library because it's a fascinating book about architectural design in general, everything from the optimal size of a public square (70 feet wide) to the best place for a garden seat.
Though this book is designed for the city planner, architect, or builder (none of which am I), I found in it validation that these needs are not so unusual and hope that there are those in the American planning and architectural communities who are doing work to further these ideals.This book is divided into three sections: Towns, Buildings, and Construction.
Likewise, use opening windows as opposed to sliding windows.•Raised flower beds provide humans with greater physical access and connection to the outdoors.•Use items that tell your story and have meaning as decorations in your home.Here are a few examples for creating successful neighborhoods and cities in the Towns section:•No one stage of the human life cycle is self-sufficient.
If I was on a desert island and could only have one book, this would be it.
There is an order, a language, for the way a good street is created.
This is the brilliant insight of Christopher Alexander’s amazing book, A Pattern Language.
This book can be read in any order—just as a walk across a city or town can take you many places.
There isn’t a house, but a series of patterns—a pattern language that creates a house.
And that house is a part of other patterns creating a yard, a street, a village.
Read A Pattern Language with its companion book, The Timeless Way of Building
I'll start by saying that Christopher Alexander has attempted to develop a more humane system of urban and domestic planning, and has provided a number of thought-provoking ways to implement his vision.I'll also say that, intellectually, it holds next to no water.
And by trying to apply the axiom-driven reasoning of mid-century social science to geography and concrete space, he demonstrates its fraudulence as an intellectual movement.
I'll leave Carl Jung back in the Eisenhower administration where he belongs, thank you much.What we're left with then, is a string of speculative sketches, which range from some rather intriguing architectural ideas at best to some embarrassingly determinist urban planning ideas at worst.
If A New Theory of Urban Design is the summation of the theoretical developments in Christopher Alexander's work, this is the practical how-to guidebook vision of building integrated and human centred spaces, of building spaces that blend internal and external physical environments. I was introduced to this by an architect friend and neighbour when I was doing some writing about topography and (our) community: it is an inspirational and exciting book, although at 1200 pages of architectural and urban design discussion hardly likely to be a holiday blockbuster. Superb!
The authors of this book, architects and designers, believed that they had identified design issues that were timeless.
Another thing which made the book feel dated, to me, were all the ways that the authors tried to deal with the generation gap and the family.
The other piece of reading this book that saddened me were all the insights about low rise buildings, the importance of public space, and the need for people to have space to play.
I think the saddest thing was seeing recently that people are building mini-houses in parking lots.
Trying to dig up what they were, I stumbled on this, mostly because Alexander was early in the card catalog, and at 1200 pages I felt sure it'd have what I was looking for.I was wrong, of course, but only in the limited-to-the-task-at-hand way.Alexander's main idea is that architecture is like a language.
Having told you this in the first 10 pages or so, and referring you to his book "The Timeless Way of Building" if you want more on the theory, he then spends the thick remainder giving you 250+ patterns to play with.It's because of Alexander that I yearn to teach kids pi through showing them the trees in the park.
Интересный набор идей для организации любого пространства. Примеры на все случаи жизни, как очевидные, так и неожиданные. Планирую в дальнейшем смотреть как в справочник
A timeless classic, that should be in every household, especially of those in design, construction, and community and city planning. Alexander and his team have uncovered the mathematical and human patterns underneath many important design decisions.
For anyone interested in urban design, place making, or the design of interior spaces, this book is a must read, or at least a must skim.A Pattern Language is a catalog of 253 patterns that cover everything from the layout of cities down to the layout of rooms.
The authors consider some patterns fundamental enough that they should always be used (e.g. light on at least two sides of every room), but ultimately patterns define the essence of those factors which have made for good places across different eras, styles, and locales.This book was pivotal in the design of my own home.(Note: As of 18 Mar 2017, Dan is borrowing this)
Holy f***! This just arrived at my house! I yelled "ITS A PATTERN LANGUAGE!" out loud alone in my room in delight! Thank you, mysterious surprise gift giver - I have been lusting after this ridiculously expensive ridiculously brilliant book ever since Cait and Jay set up their apartment all cool based on ideas from it. Oh yes, yes, yes! I own it! I can read it whenever I want! I literally now own the most badass wisdom about living in spaces ever compiled. Yes.
Again, I have Skipped a LOT of stuff ... I could say that I've covered 65% of the book. I highly recommend it for students and professionals as well. The reason why I rated it 4 stars is because there are some ideas that I did not agree with. But rather than that the book is very useful, very informative and interesting. It opened my mind to many possibilities and ideas.
I'm finally working my way through this seminal work of architectural theory. The planning suggestions ("patterns") are organized large to small; Pattern #1 is "Bring about an ideal world government ..." I'm hoping that the later patterns will be more relevant to my second story dormer.
a revolutionary book on making: cities, spaces, buildings, places. human-scaled and highly personal. essential for anyone interested in the relationship between humans and the built-environment.
So what follows are a few that struck me in particular, but there is so much richness here in thinking about different kinds of spaces, and it pulls on a variety of literature, you'll always be finding different things.I don't usually like quotes from native people's taken out of context, but this one is beautiful, and a way of thinking we have moved far too much away from:I conceive that land belongs for us to a vast family of which many are dead, few are living, and countless members are still unborn.--a Nigerian tribesman (37)The one place they completely lost me in the book -- the whole 1166 pages of it -- was their 'mosaic of subcultures'.
This book changed my outlook on my environment and made me more cautious of that 'why do I feel cozier, more comfortable here but not there' awareness.
Anyway, this book is really just full of quirky and fascinating ways humans enjoy their environment.
Part one is buildings, roads, environments.
A building shouldn't be a long stretch, you should be able to pass by it within a few moments.
Keeps the walking from becoming boring.2.
We feel more comfortable with light on both sides of the room.5.
Homes should face the south and have each room on the direction of the sunrise versus sunset.
Have read this many times, and each time I connect with their patterns. Always trying to design with these in mind. Wouldn't it be nice if community planners all used this! Most of us can only work with the last half of book.
Comprehensive and enjoyable, despite carrying unsound or statistically questionable “evidence” to support Eurocentric claims (e.g., high buildings drive people crazy). Reminds one of Fengshui.
A must for anyone building anything as small as garden beds to as large as a city.Alexander extracts patterns (what you might think of trends) in building from ancient to contemporary architecture that create "living" buildings, places that are alive and energetic and used.
For instance, one that sticks with me is the pattern of Transitions.
Thick walls in a home and well defined doorways, give you a sense of transition between rooms.
This pattern works from the small to the big.
absolutely essential reading for the designers of spaces.
Ironically professional architects I have worked with who poo-pooed the book as maybe OK for laypeople but easily contained within their vast professional knowledge have designed spaces that make fundamental errors according to the precepts of the book.
This book is a great support if you have the knack of space design as it will confirm intutions and suggest further ideas.
There is the occasional weird thing like the 1/4 inch molding rule, but no one's forcing you to use the ideas, are they?Some favorites: Light on two sides of every room; positive outdoor space; and the one whose succinct formulation I forget which talks about partially private partially enclosed spaces from which to watch public thoroughfares.Brilliant, timeless work.
With 1171 pages, teeny tiny text, and a structure more like a textbook than a story, I knew this was going to take a while to read.
I was hoping to build my understanding of design in architecture.
I wanted to know something about the timeless patterns that just work when designing and building cities, neighborhoods, streets, houses and structures for human beings, and this book delivered.
In short, if you are willing to commit to reading this I think you'll come away with some new insights about architecture and patterns that make it worth the effort.
In that way, this book illustrates a compelling way of thinking about problem-solving within a discipline of study.I have mixed feelings about some of the large-scale patterns, both in terms of their correctness and also whether they are realistic in a free society.
This first third of the book verges on self-contradiction: stumbling between collectivism, libertarianism and significant central planning.But at the scale of buildings and rooms most of these patterns are quite lovely and compelling; I think well over half are ones I've marked down for future reference.
