https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6336453-howl-kaddish-and-other-poems
Words cannot describe what I felt reading Ginsberg's poems.
It's very rare that words manage to suck the air out of my lungs by punching me in my gut so fucking hard that I want to scream, cry and laugh at the same time.
Ginsberg's poems are a lot to handle; maybe even too much at times.
If you're looking for poetry that will make you think, that will make your skin crawl and, at times, will make you vomit, Ginsberg is for you.
His words will suck you in and make you feel like you're there with him, not just observing his pain but living it.
It wasn't my first intimacy with Ginsberg as I read him during my university years (when every book tended to be somewhat intimate if not just obscenely naked) but this time I had to spend a good week with these insane poems before I even tried to talk to anyone about the impact this collection of pure madness has had on me.So excuse my brazenness but Ginsberg is f***ing brilliant.
The shock wave that went through my mind when I read "Howl" had little to do with its roughness and obscenities, it was more about the mad flow of amorphous delineations, unfolding the biggest phantasmagoria ever seen in T's bookish life.This particular collection varies in both content and intensity of the used language.
Raw, blasphemous and psychedelic. Howl is brilliant, Kaddish is majestic beyond words and the rest fluctuate from good to what-the-fuck-did-I-just-read. Ginsberg should be more famous in Greece.
Allen Ginsberg reads "Howl," (Big Table Chicago Reading, 1959)(listen to him recite this on YouTube guys, go on, try it)"I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked,dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix..." I mean if this line doesn't catch your eye, there is something wrong.
Poems like "Howl", "America", and "Europe, Europe" will remain with me for the rest of my life, as I analyse them over and over, as if on an endless loop.
Are his poems not a mix of simplicity and complexity?
Disturbing, intuitive in its imagery, extremely dense, and unfiltered to the level of brutality. It took me quite some time to get through these mere 120 pages. To say I enjoyed it would be not to the point. I was stirred by Ginsberg's poetry in corners of the mind I'm not wholly comfortable around - it was an... interesting journey.
I absolutely love reading Ginsberg out loud, mostly to myself, while facing a mirror or an empty wall.
I don't know if it's true that that is how his poems were meant to be read - I mean, I've never heard of another group of people (or a generation) that have come together to bring out the most verbally beautiful sentences with such infinite writing, so who knows?
Ginsberg's words come alive in this one, the rhythm is absolutely brilliant, the lines as controversial and raw as you've always known them.
A lover of Beat Generation poetry, since the film Kill Your Darlings, I've held a love for Allen Ginsberg for quite a while now.
This is a book I got a while ago, from Puffin Modern Classics, and is merely just a collection of what is considered some of his best works.Allen Ginsberg is one of my all time favourite poets, ever since I saw Kill Your Darlings, ever since I read his poetry when I was much younger, ever since I read “Howl” for the first time that I could actually remember it.
“I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked,dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix,angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of the night,” — Allen Ginsberg, HowlI’ve read ‘Howl’ before, but just that poem, not this entire collection.
But there’s also instances where you read lines and lines and wrinkle your forehead in confusion, and have to look up its meaning, and that detracts a little from the beat.
In every poem, there was at least one line I loved.
Ginsy can really spin a sentence...
Wonderful prose.
Easier to appreciate if one does background research of the times he lived in.
Lots of cultural references, biblical allusions, mention of politics, Greek mythology, and much more.
You have to be okay with not understanding every single reference.
The point is to understand the all-encompassing feeling of the poems within this volume.
Not a lot of punctuation or structure, extremely raw form of writing.
Ginsberg lets it all hang out for the world to read, the good, the bad, and the ugly.
It surprised me how comfortable he was with putting himself under a negative light.
I was surprised to end up by giving this one a "five". Anguished, rhythmic stream of consciousness poetry of Ginsberg is transfixing, indeed confronting at times, but emanates his life long search for elusive fundamental truths, free of conventional structural impositions. Despite Allen's "in-your-face" linguistic unconventionality, the structure of some of the verses has an unmistakeable heritage in Hebrew rhythmic, repetitive poetry .... and both are concerned with great, impenetrable mysteries that are a challenge and a torture to any thinking person. A masterpiece that has lead me to read the other "beat generation" writers.
I never realized how widely referenced the "other poems" were. Brilliant.
Poor dead flower? when did you forget you were a flower? when did you look at your skin and decide you were an impotent dirty old locomotive? I need to read this again in a few years.
Maybe the level of work I have to do is dictating my reading habits but all I can say is that I am grateful for this.
My first experience of Ginsberg was when I picked up a tiny book of beat poetry after reading some Kerouac and having a vague interest in the movement.
Ginsberg writes with more passion and fervour than any poet I've yet come across.
This man had a hard life and overcame many obstacles and he brought all of this into his work.
This man was an incredible poet and one I long to read everything by.
It was fantastic to return to Ginsberg and in particular the two poems that I had presented on with a friend in one of our seminar classes.
'Howl' is still a tour-de-force of a poem, a mixture of beauty and vulgarity, and I can still imagine Ginsberg spitting out the words to 'America'.
There are some good recordings of him performing these poems on youtube, if I remember correctly.The other poems in this collection definitely lived up to my expectations.
I didn't like every poem in the collection, but overall it was a very entertaining read, and one I will definitely return to at some point.

You should all read 'Howl' and then you should all listen to it read by Ginsberg. Part of the beginning of what was to become the modern spoken word movement, this apocalyptic epic SOUNDS amazing. The pacing is on point: half runaway-subway-cart, half meander-through-jazz-clubs and the imagery, of course, is desperately crazy. The collection as a whole was an interesting read. I rushed through the laborious 'Kaddish', but turns out it's the one that's haunting me most. Special mention to the "libraries full of tears" in 'America' and the "rotting Ginsberg" of 'Mescaline'.
I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked,dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix,angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night [...]Sarebbe inutile aggiungere qualcosa. Semplicemente fantastico, avrei voluto stringergli la mano e in uno scambio imbarazzato di sguardi profondi unirci in un abbraccio.
"The weight of the world is love. Under the burden of solitude,under the burden of dissatisfaction the weight, the weight we carry is love."A collection of poems you must read. Obvious standouts being Howl, Kaddish and America.Ginsberg, you wonderful human.
absolutely beautiful, brilliant, and thought-provoking.
4,5/5 stars.
About:Howl, Kaddish and Other Poems is a collection of Poetry that was written by Allen Ginsberg in the 1950’s.
Allen Ginsberg was a beat poet and these poems deal with downfalls of the government, mental illness, drug use, questions of the universe and God and expansive consciousness.
Allen Ginsberg was a fabulous poet and I can’t deny that some poems were good even if I didn’t love them.
I acknowledge that they were well written and important poems and that they were meant to be an uncomfortable read, I just still can’t say that I liked them though.
Ginsberg is a legend. Perhaps at times he rambles, but his rambles are of a wonderful quality and force one to feel so intensely. I haven't felt emotion like this for a long while; I require new experience.
Among the few times I've read poetry that didn't feel like prose distorted, but prose refined, purified and concentrated. "The message is: Widen the area of consciousness."
Wow. This has been on my reading list for some time after seeing it under a list of fifty books to read before you die and they weren't kidding. Howl, Kaddish and America were my favourites and I urge everyone planning on reading this and anyone who has read this to listen to Allen reading his poetry on YouTube. There are some fantastic authentic audios from the 50s to listen to, in particular America.
Allen Ginsberg's Howl and Other Poems is a book I've read over and over again, and while I appreciate its importance, I've also grown annoyed at how strongly it expresses the conventional beatnik idiom.
However, when you place those early poems alongside Kaddish and Other Poems, as Penguin has done in this Modern Classics edition, they somehow take on a deeper, more spiritual character, and even their most self-consciously hip lines re-emerge as sincere (if naive) expressions of spiritual yearning and exploration.
I especially love how they changed my view of Ginsberg's poetry, which I respect so much more now than I did when I only knew Howl and Other Poems (though I have also read his Indian Journals, which is quite good).

Reading and appreciating Ginsberg is a highly subjective and insular experience, for the stream of consciousness and drug-infused imagery employed by the poet can only be fully digested by someone with a similar set of experiences.
Nonetheless, Ginsberg is embraced worldwide for his rebellious, no-holds-barred attitude, which is evident in every one of his poems.
The apocalyptic tone of many of the poems underscores this, but for me, it is "Kaddish," dedicated to his mother, that reveals a tender side of Ginsberg that is not immediately apparent in the other poems.
Torn between 4 and 5 stars, for the poems that are good are brilliant.
For now, the rating will be 4 stars, but upon rereading some poems from this collection that have now become some of my favorites of all time (like Kaddish) I might give it 5 stars.
These poems are raw, brutal and savage which was different as I am not used to reading this kind of poetry.
Some poems were filled with rage, whilst others were filled with mourning.
Some were a critique on society, and others dealt with more political themes.
It is really graphic and it delves into many dark themes.
URLO **: Consigliato a tutti coloro che continuano ad accostare gli anni '50 ad Happy Days (maledette tv generaliste). KADDISH ***: "Non aver paura di me solo perchè torno a casa dal manicomio - sono tua madre" ->> "Una volta ho pensato che cercava di attirarmi per scoparla - flirtava con sè al lavabo (...) Mi è venuto freddo - dopo, disgusto, non tanto - sembrava forse una buona idea provare - conoscere il Mostro Ventre dell'Origine - Forse - in quel modo. Come reagirebbe? Le serve un'amante".
I picked this up because of the connection with Kerouac and The Beat Generation, and I will hopefully go back to it when I can ‘read’ poetry. It’s hard. I took some great images from the majority of these poems, even though, as a whole, they are all nonsense.
