https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27691.The_Gabriel_Hounds
I think I like him already.They have dinner, chat, flirt a little, then meet up again in Beirut, Lebanon, where Charles encourages Christy to look up their Great-Aunt Harriet, who lives in a dilapidated castle in the wilds of the Adonis Valley, styling herself as a modern-day Lady Hester Stanhope, a famous, real-life Englishwoman who lived in a former monastery in the wilds of Lebanon in the 1800s, shaving her head and wearing a turban and Arab mens' clothing.
The intrepid young heroine (an invariable staple in Stewart's suspense novels) visits her eccentric, rich old relative, Great-Aunt Harriet, who lives like Lady Hester Stanhope, wearing a turban and lording it over the local Arab natives.
The apprehension comes when we sit down at the colorfully arranged table and realize there is nothing to eat, and the anger when we realize there is never going to be.I can’t remember at what page I finally stopped reading this artfully described dribble, but by the time what should have been an exciting scene of danger was described like all the other scenes — meticulously but with no movement or excitement — I began perusing ahead, reading sections, until finally realizing how empty and superficial the painting Stewart so meticulously rendered was beneath the surface.
Unlike Stewart, she picked out a smaller canvas on which to paint her exciting and colorful adventure, giving it great movement and just enough atmosphere to suggest the beauty in which the danger and excitement was taking place.
Because when the Gabriel hounds run howling over the crumbling palace of Der Ibrahim in the Lebanon, someone will shortly die.A strange new world awaits Charles and Christy beyond the gates of Dar Ibrahim—"Lady Harriet's" ancient, crumbling palace in High Lebanon—where a physician is always in residence and a handful of Arab servants attends to the odd old woman's every need.
The historical elements are embedded in the person of Lady Hariette, the eccentric old aunt.
Her character is loosely based on the life story of Lady Hester Stanhope and lends the mystery element to the plot.
4.5✮ Just gathering my thoughts before I write my review!Ok, thoughts gathered.I've wanted to read this book for a very long time as it has a (tenuous) link with a Georgette Heyer favourite Venetia.  The link turned out to be gossamer thin, but this didn't stop me enjoying the book. The book started to feel vaguely familiar & I think it may have been serialised in one of the British women's magazines. These magazines were also the first way I experienced Georgette Heyer & Lucy Walker A N
But I digress.At the start I was sure this would be a 5✮ There must be travel writers who envy the way Stewart could give you the sense of place & I enjoyed visiting two countries, Lebanon & Syria, that tragically will never be the same again.Christy was an appealing heroine - but I was reading the British (original)version which has Christy & Charles as cousins - & their fathers were twins.
Frankly I think the resourceful Christy could have managed without him, so it really felt like the obligatory romance.I'd be surprised if hashish affected anyone the way Stewart had it affecting (view spoiler)[Christy.
Christy gets there first and after literally barging her way in soon finds herself in the midst of a seriously creepy palace right out of the Arabian Nights peopled with insolent servants, crumbling plaster, leaking roofs as well as the hounds who prowl the grounds at night like the spectral Gabriel hounds of the otherworld.
Suffice it to say that Christy and Charles soon find themselves in the thick of things as they try to unravel the mystery surrounding their reclusive Aunt Harriet and the servants determined to keep her away from all visitors.
I chose Mary Stewart's The Gabriel Hounds for the Lebanon stop of my Around the World in 80 Books challenge.
I was really looking forward to it, having enjoyed almost all of Stewart's novels to date.
Vivid and well paced, many readers seem to think that The Gabriel Hounds is Stewart's best novel, and I can see why; it is a well-characterised, and sometimes surprising, novel, with an intriguing mystery at its heart.
It follows the same formula as the majority of her other books, but it is one which clearly worked well for Stewart herself.
Not my favorite Mary Stewart but still, a quick, diverting read. The best parts of the book are the vividly described locations from old Damascus markets... To a crumbling castle high in the mountains of Lebanon. The castle is the scene of much of the action and features hidden passagewaysAnd a lovely garden in the old seraglioAlas, the plot was rather too fevered and implausible to really pull me in and the romance was something of an afterthought.
While I do not think it is the greatest mystery story ever written, might be a little cliched, and ties up far too neatly, it is still so much fun that any flaws it might have are immediately forgiven.
As with all of Mary Stewart’s mystery/romances, the love story is a tad contrived, but again that is just a part of her style that I accept going in.
No one would write this tale today in quite the same way.Maybe the thing that I love about reading Mary Stewart is that she is a walk down memory lane for me.
Really more like 4.5 starsGroup read with the Mary Stewart groupFirst line: I MET HIM in the street called Straight.Christabel Mansel is on vacation in Damascus.
She runs into her "cousin" Charles and the two of them decide to drop in on their great aunt Harriet.
Harriet is a modern day Lady Hester Stanhope living in her palace "Dar Ibrahim" up in the mountains of Lebanon.
Add in a palace with hidden passages and other secrets, plus some interesting characters and you've got a very interesting story.
As usual, Mary Stewart's prose is second to none.
Not one of my favorite Stewart's but certainly not a bad re-read, although it took me forever to finish this one.Thankfully, the cousin lovin' didn't squick me out like it did in Touch Not the Cat, probably because there was very little romantic interaction in this story to begin with.Very slow pacing, until around Chapter 13, when all hell breaks loose-- from that point on it's more what I expect in a Mary Stewart novel.As always, Stewart's love and knowledge of animals shines through.
I actually welled up at this line from chapter 12 about an unfortunate mutt:"...till I met the eyes of a thin dog which had crept to the edge of the road below me and was eyeing me wistfully, just out of stick distance.
I mostly grabbed this from my community library to demonstrate that we should totally keep Mary Stewart on the shelves because people want to read ‘em, but I’m pretty sure this was the first of her books I read (other than The Crystal Cave), so it makes sense to start over with it!I think I appreciated it more, this time.
I wasn’t sure what to expect from it before, and I was still in a fairly snobby stage about anything with romance in it, but now I’m happy to sink into Stewart’s romances and enjoy the atmosphere, the way she establishes a sense of place.
The pacing is tediously slow in the first 200 pages and only near the end - like one reviewer put it - all hell breaks loose.Another thing that bothered me was the love story between the cousins - that weirded me out more than I thought it would.
Also, it was really predictable from page one, and I like my romance with a little more uncertainty in the beginning.Overall, besides the slow pacing, I don't think it is a bad book per se, but I wasn't interested in any of it - Damascus, Beirut, Dar Ibrahim, the characters...
like I said, not my cup of tea.
I found this book in a box of junk in the faculty room of a high school where I was substitute teaching one day. What does that tell you?Not romance, not suspense, not mystery, just . . . ugh. The villains are repulsive. The heroine smokes dope "by mistake." Nothing happens except stuff that creeps you out. Why, why, why, do I go through boxes of junk that are none of my business?
The Gabriel Hounds mostly made me think of Famous Five stories for grown ups, where the hidden treasure is drugs and George and Julian get married at the end.
That's pretty much my summary of it -- that and a bit of exotic local colour, given that it's set in the Lebanon sort of area.It's fun, in that way, and pretty mindless.
The main character/narrator is female, but spends most of her time being rescued by men, despite being allegedly headstrong and capable.
Halide, the only other main (living) female in the story, is a real piece of work, a killer and a gold-digger.I liked it more than The Crystal Cave, I think.
I truly recommend this entertaining mystery by Mary Stewart! What I liked best:1. Mary Stewart's descriptive prose transported me to yet another exotic locale;2. The snappy banter between hero and heroine;3. The heroine, Christy, exhibits true grit;4. All of the animals made it safely to end of the story;5. Since I grew up in the 1960's, I had the added bonus of enjoying no small amount of nostalgia  while reading this story. I remember wearing dresses like the one Christy is wearing on  the cover of my book! I still love peasant style blouses and dresses!
Quick, enjoyable read. 3.5 stars
After reading Nine Coaches Waiting, I didn't expected such splendid suspense which takes place in the Middle East. I am really loving this series of books by Mary Stewart after have read her fantasy books a long time ago and never dared to look to the rest of her work.
She's a master of the romantic thriller, and although this isn't my favourite novel of hers, I still enjoyed it.
The author's colourful descriptions of Lebanon and Syria, and especially the crumbling castle where most of the action takes place, is evocative.
And the action springs from scene to scene like a bounding gazelle, which I admire because I don't care for slow-moving plots.
The romance itself was a less compelling in this novel, but who can complain about the image of a shirtless hero scaling the castle battlements to rescue the fair maiden?
(I had already fallen in love with the author; by the time I read The Gabriel Hounds I had already read Nine Coaches Waiting and at least one other suspense novel, plus the first two in her Arthurian saga.)More than 35 years later, I find I still enjoy the book and its setting.
Perhaps that’s inevitable, and it’s certainly consistent with how a relatively “modern” young woman of that time period would feel, but some readers may find it mildly annoying.In this book and those set in Greece, there’s also a slight touch of that British sense of national superiority, particularly over peoples who are not Western European.
Mixed reviews on here but I have high hopes.
I just realized I did not finish my review.
It was so interesting and I had no trouble coming up with images of it from the beautiful descriptions.
I am glad Mary Stewart must have been a great lover of animals.
I am finding this comes across in all of her work I have read so far.
There are some scenes in this book that include animals, that I will never forget.
Just a great read full of mystery and suspense in a foreign land.
Two youthful cousins, Charles & Christy, have a chance meeting in Damascus and decide to meet up in Beirut and go to visit their mysterious, eccentric and reclusive Great-Aunt Harriet who lives in the style of an Arab prince in a great palace.
However, all is not as it seems with Great-Aunt Harriet, and Charles and Christy find themselves in the middle of a dangerous situation that threatens both their lives.
The setting is beautiful but bittersweet as some of the places mentioned in the book, such as Aleppo and Homs, have now been bombed to oblivion.
I love her exotic settings, the Gothic atmosphere and the mystery.
The setting takes place in the Middle East.
Christy and Charles, who are cousins run into each other in Damascus and haven't seen each other in four years.
Christy and Charles decide to visit their Aunt Harriet and things take a surprising turn which takes both cousins into intrigue and danger.
The descriptions are magical, you actually can see Lebanon and feel that you are there.I liked Christy and thought she was a fun character.
She was very bold, spoiled and tenacious.I also liked Charles who, as constantly quoting romantic lines from literature.
Great read. Sizzling dialogue, spunky heroine, atmospheric setting and a twisty plot. And, it's definitely a book for dog lovers. One of the best Mary Stewarts I've read so far.
Admittedly, those looking for a faster-paced read with a greater sense of danger might find this too slow after a while; there are spurts of exciting action and nice, gradual suspense, but much of Christy's time at Dar Ibrahim involved exploring.
The actual mystery itself was probably more exciting in the lead-up than the denouement, but by that stage I found myself more invested in our two leads and wasn't too bothered by it.Christy Mansel and her second cousin Charles are likeable "young things" of the times - clearly brought up extremely privileged and not unaware that they're rich and a little spoilt, but that very self-awareness adds to their likeability.
I've been revisiting Mary Stewart's books ..
and this one fascinated me because it is set in the Syria and Lebanon of the 1960s, and my husband grew up in Beirut in the 1950s and early 60s.
The mystery which is the basis of The Gabriel Hounds isn't perfect (no spoilers here!)and by the last third of the book details about the setting took fourth or fifth place to the action, which I predicted.
But I loved the first half+ so much, and Stewarts's writing is so good, I have to give it four stars.
My husband is now reading it ..
Not Great Literature but not bad. The heroine is a little ditzy for my taste (I lost count of how many times she gets rescued by her not-yet-boyfriend-but-you-know-he-will-be) and the title has absolutely nothing (ok, maybe 0.5%) to do with the book, which always disappoints me. I like a well-chosen title. However, I'm glad I read it because (a) it whiled away a few hours in an amusing manner and (b) it introduced me to the historical character of Lady Hester Stanhope. I must now go and read All The Things about her.
Definitly my favourite of all of Mary Stewart's mysteries - gorgeous descriptions, as always, and a fast-moving plot with likeable protagonists and great dialogue."The Gabriel Hounds" is a very enjoyable read, but also a melancholy one: today, all the places described here are only associated with war and terrorism. Sadly, the easy-going sightseeing of the protagonists in Lebanon and Syria is a thing of the past.
I truly love Mary Stewart and her ability to create such a subtle mood and atmosphere of mystery and intrigue. This book was a bit slower in parts and a bit over the top with descriptions. Once the action really kicked in I was hooked. Apparently Mary Stewart loved animals too -besides flowers, plants, bushes and trees. I enjoyed seeing that in this book. The ending was - oh yea!!
First read Nov. 2005. I read this again as a buddy read with the Mary Stewart group. It is still not my favorite of hers but I did enjoy reading it with the group. I had forgotten a good bit of it so it was enjoyable to read again. I really liked seeing the pictures that a member of the group posted, especially the china Gabriel Hounds and the source of the Adonis River.
All Christy and Charles want to do is visit Great Aunt Harriet in her palace in Lebanon. Why should that be so difficult? And having finally gotten in, why is it so hard to get out? Rather transparent and all too easily resolved, but entertaining to read.
