https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574103.The_Street_of_the_City
I always love a good GLH book. This was a beautiful winter/war story. <3
This is my favorite Grace Livingston Hill book!
It's set during WWII and is about a young woman, her struggling family, an elderly woman, and, of course, a young man.
I took it to camp with me and read it to my cabin of 9th grade girls.
I didn't have time to finish it, though, so they all wanted her name so they could find the book themselves and read it, including my college age co-counselor!
I actually discovered Grace Livingston Hill when I was chasing toddlers around as a young mom.
I just love the faith and family perspective her books have!
Good Christian ReadingI have loved Grace Livingston Hill books since m teenage years. Thought I had read them all but I did not remember this one. I loved the fact ,that true to the form of her books,there were those coming to Christ. I loved that with this one both of the love birds were saved at the same time.
This novel, like so many others, has failed to grab and captivate my attention. There are many different times that I can pick up a novel and cannot finish it at that time; however, I might be able to return to it at a later date. This is one of those, who knows, maybe next time it will be a game changer.
Another good Christian bookThis isn't my favorite of Grace Livingston Hill's books but it's very good. Set in the time of war when every citizen was helping the war effort. Something that likely wouldn't happen today.
Another wonderful book!This book is a sweet love story. The main characters are very likeable. I enjoy the way the author weaves in faith and the love of our Saviour. If you are a romantic at heart, you will enjoy this book.
A delightful story. A sweet romance. A little intrigue. I have not read anything written quite like this. I love the way she describes simple things. Characters that find their faith which creates a tighter bond between them.
Love Grace Livingston hill s booksI've read Grace Livingston hills books since i can remember. They give a flavor of times in the past. Of hardships and God's care
very good
The a street of the cityReading about the war effort and the efforts of some to sabotage the effort. Young love continues even in war time.
Enjoyable nice clean readI really enjoyed this wholesome story with a good story line and good people. I look forward to more of the same kind.
Enjoyed this bookI got hooked on reading by reading Grace Livingston Hill books from school library. And I still enjoy her books . Some I have read over and over.
EbookIt’s war time and the 5th elements plans are foiled but a young woman and her family moving into the house they were using. She meets a young man and their loves change
Sweet and endearing love story. Also, reflects how God protects and guides those who love Him and trust His Word
Soothing to a dry soul in search of God! The Street of the City is a nice romantic novel set during the 1900s before the second world war took place. This novel highlights the meaning of God and His works in our life by the two lovely characters who drastically fall in love at the end.
Frannie is a young woman from a good family that fell on hard times when the father became ill, lost his business and then died.
They have recently moved to a new city, into a small house on "the wrong side of the river" and Frannie has gone to work in a defense plant.
This includes a young man named Valliant Willoughby (fortunately a more honorable Willoughby than Jane Austen's) who begins to take Frannie out - to church and Bible studies.Of course, like all of GLH's books, there's quite a bit of Biblical and Christianity bits.
This one also includes stuff about the war and defense work and SPIES.
This is a sweet story of love in the era of World War II. Even in the midst of helping the war effort, this young couple fall in love and come to faith.
This book is from an author who died in 1947 but one of the best loved authors of all time. Her books carry themes of christian values and many combine suspense,romance and a lesson all in one. This book was an enjoyable read as long as you keep in mind the time period it was written in. Good writinf is timeless as is Grace Livingston Hill
What a fun light romantic read. This book felt like a visit to times of exceeding kindness and propriety. The good characters were very very good and the evil characters were somewhat evil. Lovely blast from the past.
Hill, Grace Livingston
This is the first book that I have read by this author. I really enjoyed this book.
