https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/284195.Nantucket_Nights
It's like telling me there really isn't anything honest and true in friendships between women and it quite simply depressed the hell out of me!Another thing that annoys me is how fast the author is to "wrap it all up." It's like she got bored writing this (boring, sad) book and just wanted it over with.
All of these terrible things happen (in way too much detail at times and not enough at others) and suddenly a miracle happens and life is back to normal for Kayla within a few short pages....or at least I think so.
I don't need a perfectly wrapped up ending with every last little detail explained because in a well written book you know the characters well enough to draw fairly accurate conclusions.
I don't want to give anything away on the off chance that someone still reads this book after reading my review, but I don't have even the beginning of an idea as to what happened to any of the characters after the abrupt ending.I was given two more of the author's books so I may give her another chance, but at this point all I can say is that I want my wasted hours back that were spent reading this awful book.
Elin’s novels always leave me wanting more!
Kayla, Val, and Antoinette are best friends living on Nantucket.
and once a year on Labor Day they go to a remote part of the island and eat and swim and share their deepest secrets.
These secrets must never leave any of the three women.On their 20th anniversary of the Night Swimmers, Antoinette swims out and never returns.
Val and Kayla believe she’s drowned in the tide.
Each woman had a secret that night to share-each one that could devastate the others.
However, Antoinette’s secret is swept out to sea with her-vanished.I wanted more at the end..
This novel is an intricately woven story of family, of friendship, and of our perceptions of the truth.
Well, on the twentieth anniversary of this night the unspeakable happens and their friendship -- amongst so many other things -- becomes unraveled when one of the women disappears just before sharing a dark secret.As Kayla searches for the truth about that secret, she begins to learn things about her friends and her family that she never would have imagined.
As the pages turn towards the end, the reader is drawn in and Kayla learns so much about perception versus reality.
I was all set to give this book 4 stars, until the ending.
I was soooo frustrated by it!!
Let me get this straight...your 2 best friends frame you for murder, one of them had an affair with your 18 yr old son and got pregnant, and in the end you get the warm fuzzies and everything's okay?
Not in my world, lady.BEFORE the ending, I was really engaged--the plot moves along at a quick clip, and leaves you wanting more everytime you put it down.
But that ending, man...can't get over that.
So far, meh. Fine for a library book, but she seems pretty formulaic, even for chick lit. Nantucket + affairs + hot contractor husband + a dash of real estate porn. We'll see though.Finished it, and I still agree with all of the above plus:- a hurried, impractical ending that didn't really make sense with the characters' established personalities.- selfish, un-relatable characters- unexplained plot pointsIn all fairness, I would actually give this book 1.5 stars, not 1.
I see that all my friends really liked this book. I must be the odd one! Some of the things that happened in this book I thought were totally off kilter and not something I could imagine the characters, as Hilderbrand portrayed them, doing. I have loved the other books I've read by this author; I gave them all 4 stars! If you're trying to decide which one of her books to start out with, my suggestion would be not to start with this one. I recommend "The Blue Bistro"; now that was a really good book!!
If these three women, Kayla, Antoinette and Val, call what they had for twenty years “friendship”, then they must have had a very delusional concept of what friendship represents.It seems to be a recurring subject matter in Elin Hilderbrand’s books to have long-time friends betray each other.
It’s not the first story I read by this author that deals with the sensitive subject of friends deeply betraying each other beyond repair.
Truth be told, this was a depressing and sad story, and in the end, the one person who is most to blame (Antoinette) doesn’t even justify her behaviour or try to make amends.
I was really enjoying this book until I got to the end. The ending was a huge disappointment.
This book is based on the friendship of three women; Kayla, Val and Antoinette.
They have been friends for many years and once a year they get together to go night swimming in the ocean and share secrets.
On this particular night, one of the friends goes missing.
I was along for the ride for most of the story, but the ending was a complete disappointment to me.
What these women shared between them was not what makes a real friendship.
Again, I liked parts of this book, but the ending and their friendship, left me cold.
This book had me constantly wondering and guessing. Still not sure how I felt about the ending though.
Kayla, Val and Antoinette have been best friends for 20 years and every year on the Friday of Labor Day weekend they go out at midnight to the beach for what they call "Night Swimmers." This really sounded like my cup of tea, actually.
I think someone said to her at some point during the story, "Kayla, you need to pick better friends." And boy, were they right!
With friends like Val and Antoinette...who needs enemies?This was a dysfunctional cast of characters that I could not sympathize with.
Life just doesn't happen that way.If you are having problems with your friends and/or spouse...READ this book!
I wanted to keep reading and find out more but was also hesitant to finish it.
When I like books I don't want them to end.
Will it end like I want it to end or will it leave me feeling empty?I liked this story.
Three friends meet once a year at the beach to enjoy lobster and champagne, take a swim and share secrets.
What's better than that?
I would have liked 3 more chapters with a more detailed, developed ending.
Yes. It's a quick read.
Do I hope the next one will be better?
Yes. I like this author and will definitely read her other titles.
I didn’t love the women, I didn’t love the story, and it was easy to put this book down.
To be fair, I know what to expect from Hilderbrand as I’ve read almost all of her books.
There was so much that I read and thought, “wait, WHAT?!” For instance, your daughter’s name is Cassidy B.?
It was annoying to read the mother actually refer to her daughter as Cassidy B.
I tried to find a reason why a daughter would be named that, and I couldn’t.
That’s just one of the many “But whys?” I experienced.
That’s really all I liked.
Love all Elin Hilderbrand books for an easy, girly, summer read.
Different than other Elin Hilderbrand books I've read. I enjoyed the suspense!
Sure, she has a damaged past, but instead of rising above it, she decides to be a reclusive hermit who only lets people in out of boredom (first, Kayla and Val who offensively desire an ethnic friend), then via her pedophilic relationship with Kayla's son who she will undoubtedly spawn another damaged woman via the "romance."All of the women in this book suck though, not just Antionette.
If the book had any justice, it wouldn't be Antionette attempting to parent again (we all know how that will end), but Kayla killing all of her shady fake friends who tried to take her down.The racial elements were difficult.
I think I'm done for with this author.I'm so angry at myself.
Theo's behavior towards his parents makes no real sense, why is he so angry with his parents?
Why all the destructive behavior.Why would Kayla be so forgiving of a friend that took such horrible advantage of her young son?
The picture that Theo loves, where Antoinette is holding him, as a baby, gives me the creeps.
Ugh. I am angry at myself for finishing this book, it has absolutely no redeeming qualities.
Ugh it is truly a wall anger, I would throw it if it wasn't a borrowed book.
Kayla, Antoinette, and Val, thrown together on Nantucket twenty years ago, spend one night each year as the "Night Swimmers" drinking champagne, eating lobster, and swimming off the shores of the island.
When Antoinette disappears during one of these swims, much about all three women becomes exposed and nothing is as it seems.
I usually really enjoy Hilderbrand's books, but this one fell short for me.
If you're interested in reading Hilderbrand, please start somewhere else.
This is the only book of hers so far that I have found disappointing.
Yes, I read the entire book in one day.
That is not a typo on my start/finish dates.I love Elin Hilderbrand's books.
This one has a great story, extremely well written, good characters, and may be the best one I've read by her.
All that praise aside, there were characters in the book that I did not like.
At all.I enjoyed the writing.
I always enjoy the location.
There IS something I don't like about it but I can't tell you what because to do so would tell you too much of the story.
This is my 3rd Elin Hilderbrand book.
I started with Barefoot, which I purchased for my Kindle and thoroughly enjoyed.
I have since ordered all of the remainder of her books from either the library or Amazon.
One thing I noticed about this book was that it had much more of a "mystery" feel too.
It is the story of instincts and judgements, and of identity.I thoroughly enjoy her books so far and can't wait to read the remaining.
Great summer read. Another good Hilderbrand book set on Nantucket. Kept my interest from the beginning. Favorite quote from the book:"To be friends with another woman was difficult, Kayla thought, and painful and complicated. But when a friendship between women was good, it had a sacred, shining power.”Excerpt From: Hilderbrand, Elin. “Nantucket Nights.” iBooks. This material may be protected by copyright.
This book reminded me why I like to read mysteries - even tho they're filled with betrayal, lies, etc., at least there's usually someone who has some moral compass. I really dodn't enjoy reading about people who cheat on their husbands, throw their "friends" under the bus, and just aren't very likeable.
Excellent.
This was a 1 1/2 star book for me. I finished it so I am giving it the extra 1/2 star. It is a light read, but it reads like a bad soap opera. I don't think I will be reading any more of Elin Hilderbrand's books.
One of the best books I've read in awhile. Lots of parts of the plot that made me not want to put it down. I definitely recommend this book!
The past few cold months have made me long for days on the beach followed by warm summer nights. When I saw Nantucket Nights by, Elin Hilderbrand, I was hoping it would remind me of summer. The setting was the first thing that grabbed my attention. I have been to Nantucket many times, and loved it, so I wanted to see if it was anything like my experience. Also, the book seemed like it had a little mystery in it. It talked about investigating a friend that went missing. I was hoping the book wou
Every year, they picked a night to hold their annual ¨Night Swimmers¨ club.
One thing I loved about the book was how it described Nantucket and each girl's lifestyle.
I liked how it was like three different stories that all came together when they talked about Night Swimmers.
One thing I did not like about the book was the ending.
It almost seemed like the author just got bored with the story, so she ended it.
The whole book does a really good job explaining the girls lives, and then we don't get to see what happens after Antoinette disappeared.
so glad i read this book because now i have my pal matt to buddy read it with and workout in the gym with him as well!!this book has honestly been sitting on my bookshelf for at least 2 years and im glad I finally go to it, not what i was expecting at all.
wish the ending was more clear on what happens with Theo and his situation but alas not everyone can get a happy ending just i wish he knew the truth so he could move on with his life without feeling so much guilt.
and what he did for lindsey at the end!?!??!
Three stars is a gift - Ok Elin...this one was weird! 😂 Seriously felt like I was reading a soap opera. I prefer her more recent books much more than I did this one. None of the characters were at all likable - they were all horrible and made terrible decisions. 😭
Terrible storyline. Wretched characters. Only thing worse was the fact that I listened to the audiobook which makes the dialogue even more cringeworthy.
