https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/641141.Dwellers_in_the_Mirage
Or just a mirage.Going down they see a green mist that hides what's underneath.The cold increases as they descend and seeing a "rippling lake",which promptly vanishes.Sinking into the soup, the explorers after adjusting to the atmosphere,discover little people,and the drums,topless amazon warrior women ,witches,high priests and huge vicious wolves.And a witch woman's exotic lake, an evil god ,who demands human sacrifices.Young pretty girls of course.
Strangest of all,the inhabitants start calling Leif, Dwayanu, their ancient king .And priest to Khalk'ru, the local bloody God.Leif begins to think he is Dwayanu and fights in the civil war between two beautiful women opponents.
An average pulp-adventure. Nothing to brag about. Like a less gifted Robert E. Howard or a very young, unpolished Michael Moorcock or Fritz Leiber.The cover is way better than the book.I understand that the best book by Abraham Merritt is The Face in the Abyss. I look forward to giving that one a shot, sometime.
Another story I read back in the early 70s (okay since it was written back in the hay (hey)day of the pulps).
It was short and to the point, LOL.The story is another where a modern man stumbles onto a strange hidden world or land (in this case a warm valley in Alaska) and becomes involved in a fantasy adventure.
He's faced with an enemy who likes to call up and "release the Kraken" (okay I put in the "release" part) so they can feed human sacrifices to it.Good old pulp action, fantasy adventure.
But Merritt writes considerably better than most pulp writers, then and now.
What elevates Merritt is his descriptive writing.
Lost civilizations, beautiful (and barely clad) women, a tough hero, strange creatures, black magic mumbo-jumbo, all seem to be a part of Merritt’s fantasy landscape, but take care, since nothing is predictable as far as fanatasy story-telling goes.
Dwellers has all of the above, and then some: golden pygmies, a kraken straight from the Cthulhu Mythos (who devours young pregnant women), an Amazonian witch warrior, a Viking-like bad guy, a secret valley high in the mountains of Alaska, and a divided hero who resembles a modern day Thor – with a Cherokee buddy named Jim. Jeez, you can’t make this stuff up.
A fun pulp adventure novel with lost civilizations, ancient rituals, wicked priests and comely princesses, or in one case, a witch-woman. Fans of old-style pulp fantasy would appreciate it most.
After taking a brief respite--in the hardboiled yet outre crime thriller "Seven Footprints to Satan"--from the tales of adventurous fantasy at which he so excelled, Abraham Merritt returned in fine form with "Dwellers in the Mirage" (1932).
Rider Haggard), battling priestesses, civil wars, and otherdimensional creatures (in the earlier book, a light creature; in "Dwellers," an octopuslike nasty named Khalk'ru that dissolves whatever life-form it touches).
"Dwellers in the Mirage" has been included in Cawthorn & Moorcock's excellent overview volume "Fantasy: The 100 Best Books," and I can well understand why.
Lots of weirdness and a bit of action. Good but not great.
He flees, but a few years later finds himself in Alaska with his Cherokee blood brother and the call of the Kraken is loud indeed.
It is a world populated by friendly 'little people' and less than friendly warrior woman tribes.
An alter-ego of his, Dwayanu - a warrior/priest and possibly deliverer - comes to the fore in his mind, alienating him from his blood brother, the woman he loves and the tribe he has come to respect.
I am a big fan of lost race stories, and 'Dwellers in the Mirage' is pretty decent, but not near the top of the list for me.
Merritt's novel are introduced so near the front of the book that I feel the story lacks the very, very important 'adventure' element--there is not much journey or struggle to find this lost race/civilization here, though certainly the "mirage" is a very well detailed bit of eerie geology, and the prologue is exciting, though it does reveal too much.Although Merritt is considered one of the classic fantasists, a lot of his fantasy ideas here (and in The Face in the Abyss) are not really that imaginative.
Across the river is another race of regular sized folks ruled by Lur, the wolf woman, her Amazon warriors, and her evil companion Tibur.
After saving a pygmy, Leif hooks up with Evalie.
In the climax, Evalie is chained to be sacrificed to Khalk'ru by Lur, Leif crashes the Kraken screen with his hammer, and Lur and her worlf are slain by spears from Sri, the companion Ayjir.
Leif and Evalie leave the mist shrouded valley although "Dwayanu still lives within me." There's lots of action, white wolves, semi-clad or nude women warriors and blustering male ego.
Leif gets to be both modern empathetic man and barbarian warrior, fulfilling both young male fantasies.
Read this book if … you revel in the pulpiest of pulpy fantasy stock.
Read Dwellers in the Mirage for some mindless escapism–perfect for a summer read on a beach or while curled up under a blanket, in front of a fire, ignoring all your worldly responsibilities.Don’t read this book if … you’re too pretentious to be seen carrying books with half-naked, sword-wielding, blonde demigods on the cover.
Steer clear if you’re one of those mythological folks who can only read about “real” things.
Really strange reading this right after Sword of Rhiannon, since both books share the same core concept and even have the same ending (bringing the love interest from the fantasy realm back to the modern day world).
Well, even though I read the other one first, Dwellers came before it.
This is another lost world tale similar to Merritt's previous effort, The Moon Pool.
Unlike the Sword of Rhiannon, we never actually get an explanation of how our hero gets implanted with the alternate personality of the long-dead king.
Also unclear is why the hero decides to leave the realm at the end.
Tío bueno, cabeza cuadra rubiales, con su amigo indígena. Localizan lugar que los llevara a un mundo paralele en el que habitan seres diferentes o parecidos. En este correrán aventuran tras pasar una civilización tras otro. Lo común ahí: piensan que el rubiazo es la reencarnación de alguien que fue poderoso allí. Llega al punto de creérselo y aumentar su ego ¿merecidamente? ¡Ah! hay un "Chulú" con sus babas y miembros viriles.
Good old-fashioned pulp from the 30s...American exploring northern Alaska discovers a "lost valley" hidden by a mirage, complete with warring tribes and a cult that worships a Cthullu-type critter...
Four stars from Sandy!http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
I'm a fan of pulp adventure, but this story was so convoluted and difficult to follow, I had trouble really enjoying it. There were flashes of good storytelling, some good scenes, but they were strung together on a vague plot line. The version I read had the original ending, the one the author intended. But as a bonus, it provided the "happy ending" required by the publisher. The author's ending is clearly better.
A. Merritt is one of the great masters of the macabre fantasy novels. He generally wrote books that crossed the horror of H.P. Lovecraft with the fantasy of Robert E. Howard. This book is a perfect example of his craft - a lost world at the North Pole, ruled by despotic powers, and entered by two young Americans. There are lost civilizations, malignant gods, strange monsters and raging battles - in a very satisfying grand adventure.
This was brutal, even for an A.
Merritt story.
The main character commits atrocities he will never forget.The book contains many of the common elements of fantasy of the era.The main character is a mining engineer, and mining engineers are uniquely positioned to discover unknown peoples and lands.
This particular lost land is in Alaska, though little is used of that once-mysterious place except its remoteness.The two friends are veterans of The World War; one is Cherokee and the other of Norse ancestryThere is even a tentacled horror, named Khalk’ru, an ancient octopus god seen in many cultures, “dozing on and biding his time till he felt like destroying the world and all its life”.But this is much more ruthless in its depiction of ancient lives intersecting with the modern.
Leif Langdon discovers a hidden valley in Alaska that unexpectedly supports abundant life, including two tribes of people: a pygmy race; and warriors who descend from Mongols.
This story is about Langdon's discovery of the valley, the conflict between the Little People and the Warriors, Langdon's possession by the spirit, followed by his overcoming of it, and defeating of the kraken.
Langdon is capable yet extends to a Conanesque hyperbole once possessed by the spirit, and yet the ambiguity, legacy, and terror of the Kraken leads a very Lovecraftian air to what feels like a standard Howard adventure.
An old fantasy and a fun read....reminded me of H. Rider Haggard and H. P. Lovecraft.
probably one of my favorite A.A Meritt books, if not one of my all time adventure sci fi books. This novel follows the adventures of Lief Ericsson, (a misfit in his family because of his Viking heritage size and strength.) as he travels to the magic lands hidden in the mirage and discovers his past life, and his destiny! wonderful characters, told in the believable style of one of the best of the Adventure Sci Fi writers.
I'm still reading but I am a hard-core pulp fan and so far, this book fills all the requirements. Not PC? Uh, written in 1930's, please try and remember things were very different then. Also, a monster with tentacles? Yeah, one of Lovecraft's influences. The writing is awesome, lush and beautiful, even sometimes too much, but fun all the same.
Norse legends, American Aboriginal lore and worlds lost in time are the fuel that drives this novel. It is an intringuing tale of adventure, woven together with supernatural events, science out of context and passion. Merritt is not atypical of science fiction writers in his emphasis of masculinity and femininity as he creates this valley of ancient worlds.
Overblown, sword and sorcery fantasy, somewhat dated, and still a damned good read. Think Conan and pulp fiction books and then add an element of fun. It was written in the 1930's but it can still hold its head up high.
Read this pulp fantasy novel by Merritt way back in the 70s. Remember enjoying it, however, after recently reading Merritt's The Moon Pool, not sure how Dwellers would hold up. May reread sometime to see.
Classic pulp fantasy/sci-fi. Ancient civilizations hidden in strange corners of the world.
A good old classic, vivid, grim, atmospheric and imaginative. Recommended to everyone who loves portal fantasy.
A story of one mans voyage of discovery into his ancestral past and a place isolated from the present by a strange geographical phonomenon.
Great pulp era adventure story. Merritt writes a nice concise fast paced story. Very recommended
Fictionwise multiformat ebook
