https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30555488-the-underground-railroad
Perhaps a first-person narrative would have better suited the subject matter and helped warm us to the characters.In this story, Cora and Caesar are slaves at the Randall estate in Georgia.
With no emotional connection to the characters and little opportunity to become connected to the plot, I felt like this book full of clever ideas never became one I was truly affected by - no enjoyment, no sadness, no anger, no nothing.Colson Whitehead is obviously smart.
Excellent writing, strong concept.
I am personally burnt out on slavery narratives so I cannot say this was a pleasure to read.
So much unrelenting horror.
Whitehead does an excellent job of portraying slavery and America as a slave nation.
The idea of the underground railroad, as an actual railroad, is so smart and interesting.
I wish he had actually done more with the railroad itself.
There were some sentences where I thought, "Now you are just showing off." The amount of research the author did is clear, throughout.
There is some really interesting structural work at play.
3.5 stars “All men are created equal, unless we decide you are not a man.” I was really looking forward to this read! I had an interesting relationship with The Intuitionist, having read it in college and not quite grasped it then came back to it later and enjoyed it more. I love everything that Colson Whitehead is about (and I hope to read Zone One soon), but this particular foray into his work turned out to be a little less than a love affair for me. The Underground Railroad starts on the Ran
I love everything that Colson Whitehead is about (and I hope to read Zone One soon), but this particular foray into his work turned out to be a little less than a love affair for me.
In the midst of it all, Cora, a stray who’s gained a bit of a scarlet letter because her mother fled the plantation and left her behind years back, starts her long journey to freedom one quiet night with nothing but a sack of unripe turnips, two companions and the North Star as their guide.
This novel would’ve been better served being written in first person, for Cora’s chapters at the very least.
When another slave, Caesar, suggests they attempt an escape, Cora initially demurs…until she draws unwanted sexual attentions from her owner.
This would not be the title you should expect will give you a rich understanding of the real underground railroad for escaped slaves.
Every year, I have either never heard of the films nominated for the Best Picture Academy award or when I see them, I don’t think the movie is all that great; long drawn out scenes with landscapes, close ups of glowering faces, monotonous dialogue, etc.
With The Underground Railroad the story was fairly flat for me and the characters kind of uninteresting – reading about what they were going through was more like a bland history book than a story meant to entertain and draw emotion.
With this being the case, another star has been removed, bringing us to 3.The book is called The Underground Railroad.
I felt it was my duty to read this book.But wait.....Haven't I done my duty?
The very first few reviews I saw last year had 'negative' things to say about this book.
I knew it was time to read this book soon.
This was a case where reading reviews- low & high...
I HIGHLY-HIGHLY RECOMMEND READING MANY REVIEWS- HIGH - LOW- MIDDLE - and DNF....if on the fence about reading "The Underground Railroad".
It might have been even 'more' unbearable to read though.I was especially inspired by Poingu's review.She says: "I finished utterly exhilarated.
SHE LOVED READING THIS BOOK.
What a world, Cora thought, that makes a living prison into your only haven. Was she out of bondage or in its web: how to describe the status of a runaway? Freedom was a thing that shifted as you looked at it, the way a forest is dense with trees up close, but from outside, from the empty meadow, you see its true limits. Being free had nothing to do with chains or how much space you had. On the plantation she was not free, but she moved unrestricted on its acres, tasting the air and tracing th
People get ready, there’s a train a-coming - Curtis MayfieldIn Colson Whitehead’s Pulitzer Prize winning novel, Underground Railroad, he takes a figurative term and gives it a literal application.
I had the idea for the book about 16 years ago, recalling how when I was a kid, I thought the Underground Railroad was a literal railroad and when I found out it wasn’t, I was disappointed.
- from the Bookpage interviewIt would be a challenge to remain unmoved by Cora’s journey, and impossible to come away from reading this book without learning some things about the slave experience and the conditions that people treated as property endured.
3.5 stars rounded up.This is a difficult book to read with the horrific treatment and gruesome punishments of African American slaves so much a part of the narrative, but it is essential that we read this and other books like it .
This story is told mainly from the perspective of a young slave woman named Cora and the portrayal of her escape and journey toward freedom.
Cora's story is one that we mustn't forget because she represents so many of the real life slaves who we have to remember.
One of my favorite things about December, besides my birthday, Christmas, football, colder weather, and hot chocolate, is sitting down to peruse lists of the best stuff of the year.
Books, movies, albums, video games, etc.
We get to have different opinions and stuff can resonate with us in ways that others will never comprehend.
The depictions in the book of cruelty were difficult to read since they were fiction rooted in real events.
So I was let down by what many consider the best book of 2016.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Cora is a slave at a Georgia plantation in the antebellum South. When a fellow slave tells her about the Underground Railroad, she finds the courage to run for her freedom. Thus begins her odyssey as a runaway slave, where her adventures introduce her to unprecedented horrors and lead her to disheartening realizations. The Underground Railroad rekindles the discussion and study of slavery. The harsh realiti
Cora is a slave at a Georgia plantation in the antebellum South.
When a fellow slave tells her about the Underground Railroad, she finds the courage to run for her freedom.
The harsh realities of those dark chapters in American history are presented with brute bluntness but remain eloquent in their presentation.
Peppered throughout the book are short, engrossing chapters highlighting secondary or even tertiary characters, but the main point of focus is Cora, a sympathetic character if ever there was one.
Cora didn't know what optimistic meant.
It's no wonder The Underground Railroad won the 2016 National Book Award for fiction.
After her early life picking cotton and the escape, she works with forged papers as a maid to white folks in Charleston; as an African at a “living exhibit” at a good-intentioned museum; and she hides in an attic for months.
As a female slave she has it worse than a man because she is constantly vulnerable to sexual abuse from whites and blacks as she makes her way from Georgia to both Carolinas, Tennessee and eventually Indiana.
I had not taken "railroad" to be a literal thing before reading the book.
Like Cora, the protagonist, I thought it was just an informal way of smuggling escaped slaves up north.
It made me reflect on the current rehabilitation of racism in Drumpf's America and how little so much of the white population has really learned from this shameful past.I am not sure that this book is on the level of other Pulitzers: despite the vivid characters and fast-paced action, I felt the pace was uneven and the descriptions a little lacking.
I struggled through this...
several times thinking of giving up.
As a story revolving around such a 'heavy' subject the focus needed to be on a character less one dimensional and just a little bit likable.
Cora was not a character that made me feel anything...
there was no depth to her.
Also, I disliked the whole idea of the Underground Railroad being an actual physical railroad which made no sense to me.
Almost made it somewhat cartoonish.
It would've been somewhat redeemable if there had been an Authors Note explaining reasons for the choices he made.
Cora is a slave on a plantation in Georgia where conditions are especially rough because of the cotton industry.
Cora eventually becomes an outcast but when a new slave arrives on the plantation, Caesar, he approaches her and asks her to run away from him.
I really enjoyed a lot of things about this book, especially the writing and Cora.
Also I really didn't care very much about a lot of the back stories especially the one for the bounty hunter, the whole time I kept wishing he would just go away and die already but maybe that was the point, I don't think he's meant to be likable.
I’ve read many slave narratives, but Whitehead’s writing and characters left me destroyed after I closed the book.–Elizabeth Allenfrom The Best Books We Read In August 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/08/31/riot-r...____________________I have had three weeks to sit with this book since I finished it, and I am still not done processing it.
Whitehead is a remarkable, multifaceted writer, and this is his best yet.— Liberty Hardyfrom The Best Books We Read In March: http://bookriot.com/2016/04/04/riot-r...____________________Colson Whitehead is one of my favorite authors and I am here for anything he writes, especially because every book is such a different experience than anything he’s written before.
Whitehead evades this challenge principally by giving his central character Cora little if any inner life.
Because Cora never stays with anyone for long she never has a faithful sounding board or foil which enables her to dramatise her inner life.
In that respect it’s an historical event that has parallels with the Holocaust.
The Holocaust is often used by writers nowadays as the winning template for a thrilling and moving story.
We get to feel good about ourselves for cheering on Cora and booing the plantation bosses and slave catchers.
The Underground Railway does try to entertain and the outcome for me was that it was less moving as a result.
Cora, was a young slave on a Georgia plantation when her mother escaped, leaving Cora to the mercy of the other women in the quarters.
When a new intelligent black man, a young man whose master had falsely promised to free him on her death, arrives as a new slave on the plantation, he and a series of events will cause them both to flee.
Second book on slavery I have read in a matter of days, and it doesn't get any easier.
This is a very good book though, and I just loved the character of Cora, she is amazing in so many ways.
Nobody could wait for Colson Whitehead’s new book — including Oprah, so here it is, a month early.
In a surprise announcement Tuesday morning, Winfrey chose “The Underground Railroad” as the next title for Oprah’s Book Club.
13, the novel is available now, the result of an extraordinary plan to start shipping 200,000 copies out to booksellers in secret.Far and away the most anticipated literary novel of the year, “The Underground Railroad” marks a new triumph for Whitehead.
In this new book, though, those elements are choreographed as never before.
“The Underground Railroad” reanimates the slave narrative, disrupts our settled sense of the past and stretches.
This book is set in the early 19th century and Whitehead has made the actual allegorical historical railroad into a physical one that Cora travels on, giving her and us insights into the nature of slavery and racism, seeing the differences in how it is implemented in the states it passes through and just how white American society systematically dehumanised slaves and black people from every conceivable angle.
This is a brutal and harrowing read, that takes liberties with history for the purpose of illuminating a history that is important, relevant in today's US, particularly given the post-truth world where falsehoods are peddled as reality.It begins in Georgia at the Randall Plantation, a place where black slaves experiences comprise of castration, sexual abuse, lynchings and more.
DNF-- the characters did not resonate with me. If I were to compare Underground Railroad to Homegoing, I thought the latter to be the better book this year. Underground Railroad was tough to get into and perhaps if more action had occurred in the first part of the book, I would have liked it more.
On one level it signals early in the novel that this story is not meant to be taken literally, which allowed a lively revisionist history to bloom as the chapters progressed, in much the same way as The Plot Against America by Philip Roth.
On another level the Underground Railroad feels like so much a more than a metaphor.
By making this impossible Railroad real, Whitehead forces readers to acknowledge just how unbelievable and extraordinary the true history of African American resistance really is.Another narrative technique I loved, something that worked well when it shouldn't have, was Whitehead's use of interstitial brief chapters to give the backstory of characters who had already died.
Her words seemed to come as a surprise to many, those who had either forgotten or had never known that black hands enslaved by white masters built the iconic edifice of our democracy.As we come to the end of an extraordinary eight years of the nation's first President of color while witnessing the continued systemic racism that pervades every corner of our collective American culture, as we engage in open, honest dialogue about white privilege, how black lives matter, and denounce the wretched anti-immigrant language spewed by politicians and political candidates, we must also acknowledge and work to overcome the continued ignorance of our nation's darkest and ugliest history- a history that has led us inexorably to the painful circumstance of contemporary racism.In his breathtaking novel The Underground Railroad, Colson Whitehead demonstrates the earth-shattering power of an artistic voice to carry the legacy of the past into our now .
3.5 Stars”The music stopped. The circle broke. Sometimes a slave will be lost in a brief eddy of liberation. In the sway of a sudden reverie among the furrows or while untangling the mysteries of an early morning dream. In the middle of a song on a warm Sunday night. Then it comes, always—the overseer’s cry, the call to work, the shadow of the master, the reminder that she is only a human being for a tiny moment across the eternity of her servitude.” ”The first time Caesar approached Cora about
Although her mother never told her this, she’s been told this so often, she’s sure her mother is living a free and easier life now, most likely up in Canada.
”It was her grandmother talking that Sunday evening when Caesar approached Cora about the underground railroad, and she said no.
And on this one night, after too many nights and years have passed, with the thoughts of freedom calling her, she leaves the only place she’s ever lived and heads for a life.
They were never so comfortable as to stop looking over their shoulders for slave catchers.
The plight of slaves who are so badly treated that they are willing to risk horrendous punishment in an attempt to flee from their hellish circumstances, used to be all too common.
In this historical fiction, our resident rebel is Cora, a young woman who is ready to try and escape.This book and its subject matter put things into perspective.
Life used to be hellish or thereabouts to anyone not a man, and not white.
It's subject matter is still of actuality, and is still sensitive.
I can understand that The Underground Railroad won the National Book Award.
Her refusal to give up in the face of adversity is both compelling and admirable, and never did I feel as if Cora's development was artificial.By contrast, Whitehead introduces a series of ancillary characters and stories throughout the narrative that are hit and miss.
For me, these thriller passages varied in their ability to keep me hooked on every word, and never did I feel as if Cora was going to meet her end; however, the threat of some new torture being inflicted on Cora is ever-present.THERE'LL BE A FEW STOPS ALONG THE WAY...When Cora spends time in a variety of states, each with their own new horror pulled from history and stitched together, the book sags hard.
Boeiend...shockerend...een boeiend, mensonterend verhaal over Cora, die zich op verschillende manieren weet te ontworstelen aan het juk van de slavernij.Veel geleerd over de geschiedenis van de slavernij...de ondergrondse spoorweg, de helden die met gevaar voor eigen leven slaven hielpen te ontsnappen.
De medische experimenten op de zogenaamde 'vrije' slaven in South Carolina.
De angst van 'de blanken', de plantage eigenaren, voor de macht van de slaven als zij 'vrij' zouden zijn.
Het aantal 'vrije' slaven zou het aantal 'blanke' inwoners dan weleens kunnen overtreffen...North Carolina waar alle opgepakte slaven en public worden opgehangen...Verschillende meningen van 'vrije' slaven over hoe zij zouden kunnen integreren in het sociale, politieke en economische leven van de blanken.Cora beleeft al deze mensonterende facetten van de slavernij...Absolute must read!!
The Underground Railroad, as you certainly can imagine from a novel about the slavery era, is not easy to stomach.
That's when Whitehead makes his departure from established history (and when his tightrope act begins), imagining the railroad as a real, Nineteenth Century underground slave subway-slash-time machine, with each station serving as portal to a subtly-tweaked alternate era of racial indignity.
The transitions from the plantation to the various stations north are seamless (though a less-talented author probably wouldn't have been able to pull it off.) I deducted a star for a few poky bits midway through, but I was consistently entranced by Colson Whitehead's vision and audacity here.
It sometimes felt like Cora was traveling through time, as well as the country.
The state sections are also separated by short chapters revealing the backstories and motivations of some of the characters Cora encounters, including her grandmother, the slave catcher and a South Carolina doctor.
South Carolina was my favorite section because it reminded me so much of the dystopian speculative fiction that I like to read.
South Carolina seems significantly better than what Cora just escaped from, but something isn't right.
Sterilization and medical experimentation popped up decades before I would have expected, but the juxtaposition of those events with the physical chains that Cora just escaped was very effective.
The Underground Railroad was the group book for #DiverseAthon, which was held from the 22nd to the 29th of January 2017!This important and very needed readathon is being hosted by Christina Marie from Christina Marie, Joce from squibblesreads, Simon from SavidgeReads, Monica from shemightbemonica, Mara from BookMarauder, and Naz from Read Diverse Books!  “And America, too, is a delusion, the grandest one of all. The white race believes--believes with all its heart--that it is their right to take
Every stop Cora makes feels like a brand new world, but the fear of being caught never truly subsides.
Thankfully, another slave named Caesar asks Cora to run away with him, because people believe that Cora is a good luck charm because of her mother's successful getaway.South Carolina - This is the first stop with Caesar, and the first time Cora is lulled into a false sense of security.
We are also introduced to a slave catcher named Ridgeway, and Cora is forced to run, but this time by herself.
Cora is again forced to flee, this time leaving many pieces of her heart behind.
In The Underground Railroad, I think Whitehead created compelling snapshots of life on a Georgia plantation, had some inventive and imaginative renderings of different black experiences across slave and free states, and had some great prose and passages bringing to life these overwhelmingly horrible actions and outcomes for his protagonist.
I'll also admit that because I read this novel a bit late in the game, after all the acclaim and Oprah and winning the National Book Award, I was really expecting great things from The Underground Railroad.
