https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119389.Windmills_of_the_Gods
The pages just flew by and I realized the book was over.
However, there was an epilogue that deserved thinking about.
Sidney Sheldon is not a perfect writer.
But this book of his is so much better than many bestsellers today.The author has used sex, action, and loneliness tropes to great effect here.
Windmill of the Gods is slightly dated, but you can treat it like a classic, if you want.The violence in the book is sometimes there, and sometimes it's hinted at.
The fate of the evil mastermind is terrible, despite his shenanigans.
I won't spoil the story in my review.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستان هیجان انگیز و سیاسی و جنایی، از 31 بخش تشکیل شده استداستان در موردِ سیاست های کثیف و خیانتهایی است که در کشورهای بزرگ صورت میگیرد و تنها خسارت بر مردمانِ بیچاره و بیگناه وارد میشود... داستان نشان میدهد که چگونه سیاست و قدرت میتواند رفاقت های چندین و چند ساله را خراب نموده و زندگی ها را به ویرانی بکشاندداستان از آنجا شروع میشود که رئیس جمهور <پل الیسن> پس از قرار گرفتن در این مقام، تصمیم میگیرد تا به کمکِ دوست و سیاستمدار قدیمی خویش، یعنی < استنتن راجرز> را
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستان هیجان انگیز و سیاسی و جنایی، از 31 بخش تشکیل شده است‎داستان در موردِ سیاست های کثیف و خیانتهایی است که در کشورهای بزرگ صورت میگیرد و تنها خسارت بر مردمانِ بیچاره و بیگناه وارد میشود...
چه کسانی پشتِ پرده هستند؟؟ آیا <ماری> میتواند پرده از این خیانت بردارد؟؟ آیا <مایک> خائن است!؟ و یا برایِ کمک به <ماری> آماده است؟؟ در این راه چه خسارت هایی به زندگی <ماری> و دیگران وارد میشود؟؟ ....
But the story, as a whole, was good.I would like to talk about some of the characters...Edward.
It was a gang rape, and the laughing soldiers went from the woman to the child, their pants pulled down, waiting in line for their turn.
Smart woman until she fell in love.
Falling in love was her downfall.
Falling in love WITH THE WRONG MAN was her downfall.
She made herself believe all the things Louis said just because she thought he loves her.
For Louis, For Mike Slade, And for you, Stanton, All in all, I really, really, REALLY liked it.Oh!
We are all victims Anselmo,Our destinies are decidedby a cosmic roll of the diceby the winds of the starsthe vagrant breezesof fortune that blow fromthe windmills of the gods. As I turned away from my boyfriend's supple arms, I took a book I had read over a million times, with its dog-eared pages and put it aside. And picked another book I decided to reread, Windmills of the Gods, which I had last read in 2010. Having taken 7 years to revisit the book, I thought it would be nice to traverse the
We are all victims Anselmo,Our destinies are decidedby a cosmic roll of the diceby the winds of the starsthe vagrant breezesof fortune that blow fromthe windmills of the gods.
As I turned away from my boyfriend's supple arms, I took a book I had read over a million times, with its dog-eared pages and put it aside.
And picked another book I decided to reread, Windmills of the Gods, which I had last read in 2010.
But upon turning the last page, when I realised that there were no gods I simply put the book away to join the dog-eared library and wondered why they didn't at least add some windmills.
For me the character of Angel the international assassin remains intriguing, if not quite convincing in the end.
It is some sort of masterstroke that the author ensures throughout this work that the reader would imagine that both Angel and Neusa are the same.
The author writes - a fine sleight of hand really - "First Angel had some shopping to do.
There was a good lingerie shop on Pueyrredon, expensive, but Neusa deserved the best".
I think Sheldon defied the laws approvingly in writing this book!
Windmills of the Gods, on the other hand, is a story under the "Iron Curtain days" where the utmost concern of the United States to Eastern Europe bloc (particularly in Romania) was fictionally discussed.
And damn it was overly intriguing, heart-thrilling and mind-boggling!The first situation that appealed me is when Sheldon introduced a beautiful and accomplished scholar who has suddenly became the newest United States ambassador to an Iron Curtain country, a woman who is about to dramatically change the course of world events.
আজকাল নসটালজিয়া নিয়েও কেমন অপরাধবোধে ভুগি। কারণ খুব বেশি নসটালজিয়ায় ভোগার অরথ হলো আমার বরতমান খেই হারিয়েছে। যেন অতীতের মাঝে আশরয় খুঁজছি তাই। এসব সাত-পাঁচ ভাবতে ভাবতেই তুলে নিলাম সিডনি শেলডনের এই বইটা। সথান সিঙগাপুরের জুরং-ইসট পাবলিক লাইবরেরী। বইটা অবশয ছিলো পরবেশ পথের সামনে রাখা একটা ফরী তাকে। যার যেমন ইচছা বই এখানে রেখে যায়। আবার ইচছে মত নিয়ে যাওয়াও যায়। লাইবরেরীর ভিতর মুকত লাইবরেরী আরকি। ঘনটাখানেক আগে যখন আসি তখনও ছিলো না। এর মাঝেই কেউ দান করেছে।বই খুলেই আমার পরথম কাজ ঘরাণ নেওয়া... এই সিডনি শে
আজকাল নস্টালজিয়া নিয়েও কেমন অপরাধবোধে ভুগি। কারণ খুব বেশি নস্টালজিয়ায় ভোগার অর্থ হলো আমার বর্তমান খেই হারিয়েছে। যেন অতীতের মাঝে আশ্রয় খুঁজছি তাই। এসব সাত-পাঁচ ভাবতে ভাবতেই তুলে নিলাম সিডনি শেলডনের এই বইটা। স্থান সিঙ্গাপুরের জুরং-ইস্ট পাবলিক লাইব্রেরী। বইটা অবশ্য ছিলো প্রবেশ পথের সামনে রাখা একটা ফ্রী তাকে। যার যেমন ইচ্ছা বই এখানে রেখে যায়। আবার ইচ্ছে মত নিয়ে যাওয়াও যায়। লাইব্রেরীর ভিতর মুক্ত লাইব্রেরী আরকি। ঘন্টাখানেক আগে যখন আসি তখনও ছিলো না। এর মাঝেই কেউ দান করেছে।বই খুলেই আমার প্রথম কাজ ঘ্রাণ নেওয়া...
This book felt so different from the other books he had written.
kinda ordinary compared to some of his works that went extreme (in a great wayh) but as gripping as the othersI thnk the fact that the pro and the man never kissed or made love increased the excitement.
I was waiting for them to kiss or hold hands but they never did; it was almost...innocent and i think that made me like it 10 times more.
I have never liked Sidney Sheldon before.
But after reading his novels consecutively, i learned to appreciate his works at full blast.
i also liked how he made WOMEN heroes of his novels and how he leaves his readers at awe and question: WHAT HAPPENED AFTER?
that we wish there's a part 2 of that novel.Likewise, i loved how he connected his stories.
we know her stories were really happening in some parts of the globe and that's really nerve-shaking.
At the end of every work he made, i learned to love this author :)
This is the first Sidney Sheldon book I ever read and I simply loved it.I found the characters very dimensional and they grew through out the story. I enjoyed every minute that I was reading and was in a moment of awe after finishing it.It is definitely one of my most favorite books of all time!
This is one hell of a book. Like damn you. I started this book 3 years back and stopped in 4th page. After all these I came back on it and surprise surprise. What twist, marvellous plot. My eyebrows are still raised. Did I just read it? Even with the 4 star rating I gave. This book is just delicious.
Pretty much predictable.
Sidney Sheldon did it well on his Windmills of the Gods, & successfully placed a strong ingredient that surprises readers every now & then.
Windmills of the Gods is one of the greatest suspense stories I've had read, and Sidney Sheldon succeeded in hooking me up with such a breath-taking story, a fast-paced journey unto the world of politics & its darkest mysteries, the hidden risks behind intellect & fame, the roller coaster ride to the international secrets, sex & murder at their worst, a family at danger in every choice to take, and the survival amidst greedy interests and deceits in a game of life.
This shortish novel was a pretty speedy easy read.
The plot was Ok in parts but other partts just did not ring true - I just cannot imagine that an American Ambassador to Communist Rumania would have been allowed to walk unescorted through the streets of Bucharest, surely sercet service agents would have been close by.
I thought that worked well and was the novel was quite ambitious in this plot aspect as it meant so many different threads and different people contributing a little regularly to advancing the storyline.
The characters in this book are compelling and keep you on your toes.
One thing I didn't like about this book though, is it seemed to constantly jump all over the place.
Not that it was hard to keep track of everything though.
I was quite surprised at the end when Mike turned out to be the good guy!
That caught me completely off guard.
I was truly hoping Stanton would be the man he had been portrayed as, also, but that wasn't the case, either!
Everyone in this book wasn't who they seemed to be!I enjoyed it though.
amazing suspense !!!!!!!!!!!!!
'Windmills of the Gods' is the third Sidney Sheldon book I've read so far!
Each of the characters have been sketched with utmost ambiguity and ONE amongst them, in particular, is certain to knock you off your feet!The book, in all, may not possibly touch you emotionally (which i do not think it intended to), but will leave you highly satisfied and with a smile on your face!
Keeping in mind the amount declassified information available today, and the number of clandestine operations the governments of the modern world are involved in, Sidney Sheldon and this book remain all the more relevant.
You simply cannot put down the novel.
This was the worst book I have read in my entire life. Incredible
Overwritten, full of unnecessary junk, and rather predictable. Wasn't the maestro's one of the worthier efforts, truly.
Sidney Sheldon's "Windmills of the Gods" is the story of Mary Ashley, a Junction City, Kansas wife, mother, and university professor plucked from obscurity to become the US Ambassador to Romania.
Ashley has never left Kansas City and plenty of high-level political figures are (understandably) against the ambassadorship.
It's also a little predictable, though Sheldon's writing style still creates sufficient intrigue with some nice unexpected twists to keep the reader turning the pages.The suspense tends to overshadow the political aspect as Sheldon places more focus on Ashley's mistrust of her own staff and the belief one of more of them is behind the attempts on her life.
The good, old political espionage thriller.
A heroine, Mary Ashley, who is an ingenious personality and who is going to change the scenes around Romania with her power as the American Ambassador.
Despite this book being the formulaic portrayal of a political thriller, in which none can be trusted and faith is a stupid term, it certainly gets unpredictable at times.
The reason being, the projection of multiple characters as villains.Mary Ashley is supposed to bring changes to foreign policies in Romania, but there are people who do not want that to happen.
This is the first Sidney Sheldon book that I've read and it didn't disappoint me.
Sidney definitely has a way with words.
I cannot imagine an author with such amazing diction.
He's an author who doesn't expound much on a certain topic; he conveys clear ideas to readers with help of minimal amount of words.
I am not a fan of politics, let alone international politics, but I surprisingly finished this book though it's loaded of political ideas and conspiracies.
Now I know why he's considered as one of the greatest author ever!!!!!!!
I really liked the book.
It was a really awesome book.
I really like the plot, it was complex, with lots and lots of twists and turns.
And just when u try to figure it out who's culprit, a very desirable twist can change the wits, which I loved the most.
The plot kept changing until it thickens so much that a reader has to go the last page to make sure that Mary lives (I did that).
And those final twists was freaking awesome.
دارم با خودم فکر می کنم که ای کاش مجید کتاب های بیشتری بهم داده بود!سفیر کبیر، کتابی سیاسی، با ضرب آهنگ تقریبی سریع، البته از حدود 50-60 داستان به بعد.
بخش های کوتاه شده ی داستان، حوصله سر بر نیست و سریع به چک پوینت بعدی می رسید.
شخصیت پردازی خیلی خوب، پرداخت محیط عالی و بیان احساسات مخصوصاً از دید شخصیت اصلی داستان که مری باشه، قابل قبول بود.
ضمن این که، وقتی چند تا کتاب دن براون رو خونده باشید، کتاب رمز آلود کاملاً قابل پیش بینی به نظر می رسید.
Yet another great story from Sidney Sheldon. His stories are fun, entertaining reads that I look forward to. "Windmills" is a Cold War era thriller with plot lines that still resonate in the post 9/11 world.While reading this, I thought of events that happened in Eastern Europe a few years ago. These events were perfect bookends to what happened in "Windmills".Sheldon's stories in some respects are eerily becoming true.
Of all the Sidney Sheldon books I have read I found this the most boring one. The story starts off extremely slow, even boring at times. after reading a good 75% of the book the story picks up the typical pace of Sidney Sheldon stories. Overall the book didn't satiate my thirst for a good mystery thriller.
The only sheldon book I ever read.Plus: As he is famous for, femininity is very well portrayed.Minus: For creating the suspense he used the same old trick. You could guess the the main (so called) suspense half way itself. At many places the unnecessary over usage of erotic content reduces the quality.
"Windmills of the Gods" was my 10th Sidney Sheldon novel, and also my favourite! The brisk pace of the book, the choice of locations, and the character - Angel, give readers so much more to enjoy than the average Sidney Sheldon novel. I take my words back, no Sheldon novel is "Average"!
Great book... fast paced...loved it
