https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958215.Art_Forms_in_Nature
Just once in a while, 5 stars aren't enough.
This book is far more than amazing, it's stupendously, fantastically, magically wonderful (and that isn't hyperbole!) The book, as the introduction makes clear, is a work of scientific illustrations of primitive organisms.
But the illustrations are other-worldly both in form and in the feeling they give: that rotifers, protozoans and medusae don't just inhabit scarcely-visible parts of our world, no they have their own world which we can barely glimpse into, as different and exotic as any science-fiction artwork.
If I wasn't at all interested in science, I would still want to own this book.
Not so mind-blowing in these days of high-resolution microscopy, but still pretty amazing from a technical drawing viewpoint. And interesting aesthetically if you leaf through and the hydra and jellies and pinecones all sort of blur together as form rather than animals.This Dover edition does not reproduce the text.
Lately, I have been indulging in scientific technical drawings more and more.
I like the discipline in that long-forgotten way you feel when you're a hardcore fangirl screaming internally upon seeing something you like.
This was really great, but most importantly it will last -- for archiving, referencing, modifications, not just a book that'll sit on the shelf once perused -- all made easy with access to these lithographs.
P/S: Probably not as important, but I would have liked individual lithographs to have been labelled.
Drawings are lumped into classes on single pages, so you'll get for example: one page of various starfishes, but without identification of each one.
احتجت إلى قراءة أي شيء يجعلني أتأمل.. فوجدت هذا الكُتَيِّب الذي جعلني أسترجع اللحظات التي كنت أترك دراستي فأخرج لأتنفس قليلا وينتهي بي الحال إلى محل لبيع أسماك الزينة وتحديدا الطابق السفلي لأمكث أمام حلزونات البحر والقشريات الصغيرة فأتملها إلى أن ينبهني صاحب المحل أنهم سيغلقون بعد قليل.. فأعود وخيالي يغوص في أعماق المحيطات..هذا الكتاب أبهرني برسماته، وودت لو أنني اشتريت المجلد الكبير لأعمال هيكل كلها بدلا من هذا! ومعلومة اليوم أنه قبل أن يكون عالم أحياء تمنى أن يكون رسام طبيعة! ومشروعه كان يهدف إلى تقديم الفائدة العلمية بطريقة فنية راقية -- وأؤمن أنه حقق مراده!
I bet H.R. Giger has a copy of this book. Old drawings of microbes, animals and such in a very distinct style. The microbes and some of the sea creatures have an especially alien look to them. There's at least one free digital version and if you insist on a paper copy get something like the Prestel edition so you get the color plates.
GORGEOUS :: cannot be beat. I heart Ernst Haeckel.
Art forms in nature explores some of the most representative works of Ernst Haeckel.
There are some pictures of coral skeletons that instantly transport the reader to a somber world; and then there is an explosion of color and movement in plant and living coral.There is the "muscinae Laubnoose" that transports you to the dreamed trip through the rainforest.
This is a great book to look at in your living room with long time to absorb all that beauty.
Gorgeous prints, as virtually everyone agrees, but the first of the two introductory essays really fell flat.
The second essay was moderately interesting.
Too bad someone like Andrea Wulf didn't write an intro.
Her chapter on Haeckel in her recent book, The Invention of Nature: Alexander von Humboldt's New World, was what prompted me to buy Art Forms in Nature in the first place.Read this book for the "Reading Genres" book club "Eurobooks" meeting, for which I decided to concentrate on European entomologists.
I read five books, all told, for this meeting, which was undoubtedly overkill, but which I wholeheartedly enjoyed.
Somehow this didn’t wow me as I’d expected.
The material is interesting re art, science, nature, and philosophy.
Haeckel the zoologist is just as interesting as Haeckel the artist.
I thought I’d adore the prints, but while I enjoyed them, I didn’t love them.
The text accompaniment, appearing early in the book before the many pages of prints, is interesting.I’m not sure why I didn’t feel amazed by this book.
I do recommend it to artists, naturalists, scientists, and anyone interested in the natural world and in art.
I’m not quite interested enough in it to borrow it again and spend more time with it.
Eibl-Eibesfeldt quotes Haeckel at length: "Purely speculative metaphysics, which were further developed from theories of apriorism established by Kant and which found its most radical advocate in Hegel, ultimately led to the utter rejection of empiricism and claimed that all knowledge is in fact acquired through pure reason, independent of all experience.
Alas, Eibl-Eibesfeldt goes on to develop his wonderful essay w/ this: "Is it not possible that the aesthetic sensibilities of people who have grown up in what many would find ugly, artificial environments of the industrial fringes of modern metropolises, have also been altered as a result of such new environments?
100 plates of beauty. Ernst Haeckel gave us something that we can, like Escher, forever look at. Escher inscribed them in Nature, giving birth to what he saw in his mind; Haeckel engraved what he saw in Nature.
I'd never heard of Ernst Haeckel until I read about Rorschach's inkblot tests (that is the great beauty of reading: books beget books). Haeckel was a 19th century biologist and illustrator who specialized in mapping and painting natural history in mathematical and symmetrical diagrams that are nothing less than stunning works of art. Both flora and fauna are plotted with precision and exactitude, and the result in breathtaking. Sublime.
This book was one of the most beautiful and inspirational books I have ever read.
Beautiful is all I can say.
It's gorgeous. I got a black and white version and it's a little hard to make out all the different parts.
This is my favorite book. It's so appealing visually and I can just guess how great the scientific value is as well.
At 70 years of age, Haeckel published this in 1904. So detailed, and so intriguing!
"[A]ll things counter, original, spare, strange" by the philosophical 19th century German biologist.
"Read" is too strong of a word here -- I flipped through the pages, looking at the incredibly detailed art. Gorgeous and precise. Would like to return to this in the future for possible tattoo inspiration.
– Ernst Heinrich Haeckel, Professor of Zoology in the University of Jena for nearly fifty years, and famous throughout the world for his research work supporting the theory of evolution, died here today..."[...]"In his "World-Problems" he went much further than Darwin dared to go, and has given us a program of the world's origin which wholly eliminates all elements of design in the scheme of things, with a vigor almost unscientific in its harshness.
It's basically a feast for your eyes if you are into nature, art, or just curious.My book had certain plates where the colors misaligned and shifted (ie, color part is offset from the lines and went beyond the boulder) and created a poorer quality image overall :( I ended up liking the black and white images more than the colored ones.
If you are thinking about purchasing this book, having the product on-hand to check through would help.
Despite with the defects in my book, it is still a good purchase and would do well as a gift or inspiration.
They are quite beautiful and seem like they would be a good source of inspiration for thinking up horrid Lovecraftian monstrosities.
I find it frustrating though that many of the plates have numbers next to the individual organisms, but the back of the book doesn't provide the English names for them.
Or seemingly any names, merely the genera.Something amusing: from this book I learned that there is a clade that is called (or was called at least) discomedusae.
Disco Medusa just sounds like one of those modern movies that attempts to mimic cheesy old horror movie schlock, though perhaps one even dumber than the average fare.
Quem já usou alguns dos desenhos de Ernst Haeckel em seus slides ou para chamar a atenção da molecada do ensino médio levanta a mão!Ilustrações simplesmente fantásticas que não apenas sobreviveram ao tempo, como se adaptaram consideravelmente bem à era da Internet, haja visto que facilmente aparecem nas buscas quando pesquisamos por certos grupos biológicos.São trabalhos belíssimos, inclusive as referentes aos Batrachia, quelônios e Lacertilia. Outros desenhos hoje parecem mais artísticos do que realmente científicos, talvez simétricos até demais, mas nada apaga seus finos traços.
I absolutely love this book. Of course I could, and have, spent hours staring through microscopes at diatoms and other creatures. The illustrations are beautifully accurate, the sense of documenting some of these creatures for the first time is wonderful. One of the best ways to study for an invertebrate biology lab practical. I feel like I would frame the pages and put them all over my house, if I could ever bear to take apart the book. Be careful of the Dover pictorial edition; it is black and white.
This was a Christmas gift to myself (and the family). It's a reprint of Haeckel's monographs of nature studies: coral, bats, fungi. To be honest, none of these things actually look like what you'd imagine, but like elaborate Victorian wallpaper. Haeckel did, in fact, use some of his drawings as wallpaper designs. On the fence about weather to become a water colorist or a scientist, Haeckel blended the two with the result being stunning, artistic renderings of natural science. The color combinations are art in themselves. Now I'm hooked and looking for Haeckel in the original.
I heard about this in the book The Invention of Nature: Alexander von Humboldt's New World. Haeckel was among the many artists, scientists, and environmentalists influenced by Humboldt. Haeckel's illustrations in turn influenced the entire Art Nouveau movement, one of my favorite design styles. People are still using his work, from direct copies to inspiration (I saw a drawing shared on facebook just last week!). He's someone you should know, and looking at the pictures doesn't take very long.
Magnificent drawings! This Prestel edition of the original book, published in 1904, includes prefaces by Richard P. Hartmann, Olaf Breidbach and Irenäus Eibl-Eibesfeldt. Then there is a biographical note on Haeckel himself at the end of the book. This particular edition is a handsome one, the book itself is large and the pictures detailed and printed at the highest quality. For anyone as fascinated by animal anatomy and taxonomy as I am, I'd recommend they get a copy of this masterpiece.
Exquisite drawings of various animals, plants and other living organisms. Beautiful inspiration if I ever get into embroidery (or any other artistic pursuit). I also found it fascinating reading it with my 5 year olds: we enjoyed looking at the pictures and commenting them.I'm not sure I feel the need to own this book - but will probably borrow it from the library again in the future.
The amount of work that went into this book is mind boggling. I am in awe at the craftsmanship and the drawings. I am further amazed at how the 100 drawings were then put onto steel plates. I want this book in my personal library. I can see it coming in handy for whenever I am in need of creative inspiration.
Ich habe kein interesse an Natur aber die Bilder sind der Grund weil ich dieses Buch liebe.Als Mathematikstudent finde ich, dass die ganzen Bilder nicht nur "Kunstformen" sondern auch "Mathematikformen" sind. Was für ein Ergötzen! Vielleicht wenn man kein Zeit oder Lust hat, kann man nur die Bilder sehen.
