https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25489134-the-bear-and-the-nightingale
Like all the best fairy tales, the author draws on the setting - a village in the northern woods of Rus' - to create an atmosphere that promises magic and suggests many horrors.
The characters are somewhere between the old and the new; believing in modern religion but still deeply tied to the stories of old - the creatures that hide in the dark, the demons lurking in corners, the spirits living in the woods.
It is Vasya - and her own strange gifts - who is the family's only chance against the evil spirits at work.A haunting story; one so deeply atmospheric that you can almost feel the cold air on your skin as you're reading.
“Tell the story of Frost, Dunyashka. Tell us of the frost-demon, the winter-king Karachun.”  This book is magical. This book is whimsical. This book is one of the best things I’ve read in my entire life. I loved this with every bone, every red blood cell, every molecule in my body. This book was nothing short of perfection, and I’m sorry to gush, but I never expected this story to captivate me the way it did.   “In Russian, Frost was called Morozko, the demon of winter. But long ago, the peopl
Tell us of the frost-demon, the winter-king Karachun.”
This book was nothing short of perfection, and I’m sorry to gush, but I never expected this story to captivate me the way it did.
Vasilisa’s father tries many different things to get her to want the same things most girls in this time want (marriage, babies, performing “womanly” duties), while Vasilisa only wants to be free and see the world.
Which makes it all the sweeter that it ended up being one of my favorite books of all time.
When the people fail to pay the tithe that kept the spirits from fading, the crops wither away and the wolves creep close to the village and when Vasya’s many attempts to keep the old magical protections in place fall through, the townspeople all sought to repair the fault in the world by demanding to put her out of it.But the worst nightmare they could hope to conjure for Vasya would pale beside the one that already lived in the woods—blasted, hungry and more terrible than the Winter King himself—and that wanted Vasya and all she holds dear.The Bear and the Nightingale is a very atmospheric, sprawling yet so deftly-crafted fairy tale that ticks all my reading boxes: witchcraft, magic, and history.
The characters were described so well and the story was absolutely fantastic and so magical.
♡♡♡Certain parts of the story felt so nostalgic to me.
Matyushka, Batyushka and many of the other words in the story evoked a glimpse into my past.
Happy with all of it, every word, even the ending.I would definitely recommend reading the glossary in the back of the book first to understand the meaning of some of the words.
♡♡♡I have high expectations and can’t wait for the second book “The Girl in the Tower.”5***** and I’m definitely purchasing this one!

I would rather die tomorrow in the forest than live a hundred years of the life appointed me.”
The Bear and the Nightingale, instead, is a compulsively bingeable, gorgeously written, and ridiculously compelling dark fairytale.
But my favorite part of this whole book was Vasilisa and her character arc.
Thus, even when she’s not driving the plot, she feels like a major force in the book.
And just like our natural world, it is beginning to crumble.I don’t know how I’ll feel about book two, but I’m super excited based off where this ended.
Just finished reading an ARC of this forthcoming book.
Then you bite into it and discover ginger and nutmeg (also favorites of mine.)This book is a bit like that.
Okay, I've read lots of that.
It's told rather like a fairy tale.
It's told a bit like a Russian fairy tale only the setting is very grounded in a reality that will leave your nose and toes chilled and make you wish a horse like that would come your way.That's as close as I'm coming to a spoiler.
You deserve to read this book so the story unfolds page by page.
The novel begins with Dunya telling the story of Frost, a harbinger for what comes later.
She communes with and feeds the protective guardian spirits of her home, stables, forests and water.
All is well until the arrival of Anna and the priest, Konstantin, begin to tear apart the community through fear, presaging the bitterest cold weather, crop failures, famine and death.
Aided by the Winter King and Solovey, the nightingale, Vasya is to battle the bear for the soul of the world.This novel pierces humanity's Achilles heel to let us see how anger and fear allow people to let in the forces of destruction to wreak havoc.
what will happen?this is a stunning debut that perfectly mimics the tone of a classic fairytale, but breathes new and exciting life into the familiar themes with lyrical writing, strong characters, and by weaving in elements of russian folklore, which were mostly unfamiliar to me, and therefore fresh and exotic.quickplot first, then i will return to these three strengths in greater detail.pyotr vladimirovich is a lord in medieval rus', responsible for the well-being of several villages in the heavily-forested wilderness, subject to his late wife marina's half-brother, the grand prince in moscow.
This is a story that I should probably go back and re-read at a time when I can give it my full attention...but I didn't feel a strong enough connection the first time around to make me want to do that.
I ended up having to "rewind" several times to reorient myself because I'd find myself completely lost.'The Bear and the Nightingale' ended up being a bit too complicated of a story for me to take in via audiobook.
Nonetheless, it ended up being a "good but not great" read for me this time around.
Very unpopular opinion time because it seems everyone in the world loves this book :-/I liked certain things about the book but overall it wasn't for me. Don't know if it was the book or my mood but I'm glad there are so many people loving it. I liked the characters enough and the storyline for the most part but I don't know. Sigh ...
This is the perfect book to read during wintertime, when there is snow falling from the sky and everything feels like magic.Because this is such a magical and atmospheric book.
But I am, and the truth is, it’s not easy to write the way Katherine Arden does.
This is not a book you will read in one single sitting or even in one single day.
I did not mind, seeing that I can fall as hard for stories that are character-driven as the other sorts.
Thank you, Katherine Arden, for writing this book.
I can’t wait to be transported to medieval Russia again!Initial take: This Russia-based fantasy, set in old times when it was not yet a unified country, mingles Russian fairy tales of nature spirits, the Frost King and his destructive brother, the Bear, and a young woman's desire to live life on her own terms when an arranged marriage or life in a convent seem to be the only options for her.
enchanting is really the only way to describe this book.
this was the type of story that makes you want to go back to being a child who unconditionally believed in magic and wishes and the possibility of all things.
everything about this felt true to the characterisation of the type of folklore story that this was.i will definitely be picking this up again come wintertime, cosily bundled up near a fire with a cup of hot chocolate.
because this book is the sort of magical warmth and comfort that everyone deserves during the coldest of times.
Haunting. Riveting. Entrancing.This is the sort of book that  sweeps  you on a  journey .   "I want to save you, Vasilisa Petrovna," he said. "I will save you all. There are dark forces that you do not understand." To his surprise, and perhaps to her, she laughed.  Vasilisa "Vasya" Petrovna lives during the "old Russia" - back when fairy and folk tales were not legends. Vasya always possessed the second sight, which made for some interesting conversations with the various creatures living in and
All the spirits that live in and around her house were quite peculiar,such as the origins of the domovoi: 
And, to top it all, a priest moves into their house and is hell-bent (ha) on saving Vasya's soul but all he succeeds in doing is a lot of fear-mongering and weakening of the protective spirits.
Without the spirits to protect them, Vasya must face the ever increasing danger of the old gods - alone and armed with nothing by her sheer force of will.I really enjoyed this one - there's just something so magical about having this novel set in the dead of winter with the old gods circling the dimly lit sleepy cottage.
‘’Fairy tales are sweet on winter nights, nothing more.’’ Russian fairy tales are unlike any others, in my opinion.They are not simple, ‘’happily-ever-after’’ myths, but wonderfully detailed glimpses in the daily lives of people born in times gone-by and tales that hide themes that are relevant to our era. They contain female heroines that surpass inexplicable odds and many have ambiguous closures. There is a sadness that permeates the Russian fairy tale tradition and a fierceness, a strangely
Russian fairy tales are unlike any others, in my opinion.They are not simple, ‘’happily-ever-after’’ myths, but wonderfully detailed glimpses in the daily lives of people born in times gone-by and tales that hide themes that are relevant to our era.
There is a sadness that permeates the Russian fairy tale tradition and a fierceness, a strangely modern idea of feminism.
Before Anna came to the community, the people had found the perfect balance between the teachings of Christ and the old Russian deities and traditions.
This is strictly my personal opinion, formed out of many years of familiarity with Russian Literature and Culture.
Marina had given Pyotr 3 sons and 1 daughter....but she was still hoping- waiting - determined to give birth to a daughter that carried her mother's magical spirits - a strength that her daughter Olga wasn't born with.
Marina said it would be worth leaving her children motherless, to give birth to a daughter with her mothers spirits.
The girl needs a mother Pyotr thinks.
Haha!Pyotr may have been angry at Vasya - wanting to punish her.
BEATING IS ALWAYS CRUEL......( no matter what century it is)"Vasya was forbidden to leave the village, but for once, that was no hardship.
I have to say that I've not read anything quite like this one, but believe me, that IS meant as a compliment.It transports the reader back to medieval Russia, to a place thick with forests and deep crisp glistening snow.
It's difficult to go into too much detail without spoiling it for other readers, but this is a most unusual tale that reads like a fairytale but was written with a more adult audience in mind.The imagery is simply wonderful, the characters leap out of the page, and the storyline is a mixture of history and Russian folklore.
12/30/17 - TODAY ONLY! ON SALE for $2.99: http://amzn.to/2EiufLUReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsI added another new bookshelf to Goodreads: religious nuttersI preface my review with that statement, b/c it's important that you know exactly how off-putting I find anyone who uses religion as a crutch to excuse their abominable behavior. Agamemnon sacrificing his daughter to ensure favorable winds as he sails to Troy? Kill him on his own alter. Spanish Inquisitioners torturing anyone not Catholic f
http://amzn.to/2EiufLUReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsI added another new bookshelf to Goodreads: religious nuttersI preface my review with that statement, b/c it's important that you know exactly how off-putting I find anyone who uses religion as a crutch to excuse their abominable behavior.
#noimnotkiddingAnd I have to tell you, if it wasn't for that insufferable jackass Konstantin and the witch-hunting frenzy he worked his congregation into, THE BEAR AND THE NIGHTINGALE would have easily been a 4+ star read.I loved Vasya and (most of) her family.
It's 100% a personal preference, which is why I have zero qualms about recommending THE BEAR AND THE NIGHTINGALE to anyone who interested in reading this type of folklore-influenced fantasy.
This looks like a perfect winter read. I will save it for Christmas.
Do you know that fuzzy feeling when you find a book with a world so immersive that you don't want it to ever end?
I love books set in Russia, especially the North of Russia; I love Fairy Tales; I love the books the blurb compared it to.
She just wants to decide her life for herself; a difficult thing to do in a time when the two options open for her are a) marriage or b) joining a convent.Overall, in case anyone missed it, I absolutely adored this book and its main character.
هي من روايات الأساطير الحضريةUrban Fantasyالحكاية بتبدأ بحكاية ترويها المربية العجوز دونيا ﻻبناء بيوتر، وهي ستكون كمجاز لما ستدور عليه الأحداث بعد ذلك بشكل او بأخرالحكاية ربما ظللت حتي مايزيد عن نصف الرواية بدون حبكة رئيسية، مجرد احداث كما قلت مختلفة حول عائلة بيوتر فلاديميروفيتش علي مدار السنوات منذ رغبة زوجته في ولادة فاسيليا لتكون مثل أمها من قبل، ذات قدرات سحرية ، وحتي ان تبلغ الخامسة عشر تقريبافالسنوات ستشعر انها تمر سريعا...شتاء وراء شتاء وراء شتاء حتي تفقد متابعة عد السنواتلكن بعد بداية النصف الثاني تقريبا ستجد الحبكة الاساسية تظهر وأن خيوطها كان يتم تجميعها ربما منذ حكاية المربية عن عفريت الصقيع والفتاة الشجاعةلتتحول لقصة كقصص الجنيات الخرافية وبشئ من الرعب والملحمية الفانتازيةربما لم يعجبني كثيرا المعركة الملحمية بالنهاية..لمحة ايضا بالنهاية لتحويل القصة لرومانسية والتي كانت يعتبر ميزة الرواية عدم سقوطها في فخ الرومانسية التي غالبا ما تفسد الحبكات بالنمطيةلكن بشكل عام اعجبني وصف الاجواء...المعتقدات الروسية القديمة والتي ستجد اصداءها في كل العوالم الخيالية مثل عالم سحرة جي كي رولينج بالاخص من كتابها الوحوش المذهلة واين تجدها، والمعروف عنه ان اغلبه مستوحي من معتقدات ماوراء الطبيعة من مختلف انحاء العالمفستجد هنا الدوموفوي ، الجن المنزلي الشبيه بفكرة دوبي بهوجوارتس، ، حوريات البحر...وغيرها الكثير 
4 Stars  “I gave everything for you, Vasilisa Petrovna.”“Not everything,” said Vasya. “Since clearly your pride is intact, as well as your illusions.”  Borrowing heavily from Russia for its winter setting and mythology, this debut focuses on Vasya, and her ability to see the spirits surrounding her small town. While both have always lived together peacefully, a new religious movement disbands practices honoring such spirits, upsetting the balance. This was a buddy read with these two awesome pee
Borrowing heavily from Russia for its winter setting and mythology, this debut focuses on Vasya, and her ability to see the spirits surrounding her small town.
The plot was in no hurry as we spend time with Vasya and her family.
Vasya’s gift makes her a social outcast among her town (and sometimes own family) especially when she’s the only one that sees upcoming danger.
(There’s literally a character who is essentially Death and he’s present for two chapters?)Also, despite Vasya herself being strong without violence, there's an absurd amount of people hitting each other?
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!In northern Rus’ the family of Pyotr Vladimirovich are waiting out the last days and nights of winter, with rapidly dwindling food supplies gathered before the winter snows began.
This story centers on a young woman named Vasya who takes her first breaths of life even as her mother takes her last.
As a young woman, Vasya is free to do what she wishes most of her days.
As sweet as Vasya can be, she is a force of nature, filled with determination, strong-willed and independent, while also filled with a strong family bond.
Vasya, in critical danger of reaching special snowflake status (cough Agnieszka), ended up actually being a really cool protagonist and Morozko, in critical danger of falling into awful, douchey Dragon territory, ended up being a legitimately interesting anti-hero/(view spoiler)[harbinger of death.
(hide spoiler)]The fairy tale influence was really interesting and informative.
One significant character in particular embodies the (historically accurate) evil of using fear and death to force Christianity upon the people at the expense of their cherished beliefs instead of allowing them to co-exist as they had been (not cool, bro).
Set in a Fantasy-esque Medieval Russia with Russian folklore, this was supposed to be my jam. It should have been. It started out well and somewhere down the line, in the last third part of the book particularly, I... simply lost interest. Oh, well.
But this I will decide for myself."The Bear and the Nightingale is a wonderfully atmospheric story with a definite origin in the Slavic folktales.
Check.However, none of these character designs came across as overused or cliche.
However, I had the distinct thought "I can't see myself wanting to experience this story a second time," despite the positive feelings of nostalgia it brought me.
Those who enjoyed the atmosphere of Novik's Uprooted but wanted more from the story, or fancied the setting of Leigh Bardugo's Grisha trilogy I think will find a this read on their favorites list.♡ Buddy read with Rachelle & Kaylin!
Way back when people left bits of bread and milk for the household spirits and believed supernatural beings controlled the weather and lived in trees and water.A woman descended from witches finally has a last child who has the magic before dying.
The world she is raised in has no room for females like her.
So how can she find her place in the world?I loved this book.
I can’t imagine what it must have been like to live hundreds of years ago when religious fear left no room for the unconventional.I love the idea that these creatures only exist if people believe in them.
I was extremely excited to read this one after seeing some early reviews of this book and I was not disappointed!
THE BEAR AND THE NIGHTINGALE by KATHERINE ARDEN is an extraordinary, magical, spellbinding, and captivating tale that transported me right into Russia in the 14th century with it’s history, myths, and folklore from this medieval time period.
KATHERINE ARDEN delivers an extremely vivid and atmospheric read here with a very strong, likeable, and fascinating heroine, Vasya.
To sum it all up, this was an enjoyable, very imaginative, and an extremely interesting novel with a very eye-catching cover that had me totally engrossed in this magical and mystical tale.
Such a wonderful job is done with the sights and sounds, the daily living of those during this time period, from the reaches of Moscow to this village where Vasya lives with her family.
The fires, the dangers in the woods, the huge stove the family sleeps on when it is too cold, the author had to have immersed herself not only in this time period but in the old legends and fairy tales.So different from what I normally read, not a big fantasy fan and I am not sure if this qualifies as fantasy, more a fairy tale with a side of historical fiction.
3 out of 5 stars to The Bear and the Nightingale by Katherine Arden, the first in a fantasy and historical fiction series about Russian fairy tales.  Why This Book  I ordered this online many months ago based on the description I'd read in Goodreads. Then a friend of mine, Valerie, was planning to read it. We decided to do a buddy read together earlier this month.  Plot, Characters & Setting  A Russian girl loses her mother and her place in a family. She meets strange creatures who no one el
I ordered this online many months ago based on the description I'd read in Goodreads.
A Russian girl loses her mother and her place in a family.
You truly feel transported to a new world full of complex characters, interesting plots and high imagination.There is a lot of great history and views on religion, politics and royalty.
I had been in a reading slump and was working on the final chapters of my own book.
I think it's a strong book, and for that, I settled on a 3 rating.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
