https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381102.Griffin_and_Sabine
This isn't a novel; in fact, it's a book that can probably be read by most people in less than an hour. It is more of an artistic expression of both love and desire in written form, as explored via a mysterious correspondence, in which the reader can participate.
I believe the illustrations alone are worth ten (10) stars.
However, the story is a bit weird.
This is a story told through a series of correspondence.
A young woman on an island in the South Pacific starts by sending a postcard to a young man in London.
Based on the postcards and letters exchanged both are very talented artists.
Sabine sometime gets visions or dreams of the illustrations by Griffin as he works on them.
The book actually shows the postcards and letters (nineteen (19)).
The book even actually has envelopes with the letters enclosed.
The book is a great presentation.

Does it matter?), the stylistic influences (Magritte, Monet's garden and light studies, fauvism, Romantic cult of death, deconstructionism), the questionable psychology of both characters (Griffin's doubtful sanity, the evolution of Sabine- whether it is in his mind or not, what each means to the other), or one can look at things through a postcolonial lens (the exotic dreams of the Other, the European dispora and their various reasons for escaping the Old World, Sabine's possibly mythical marginalized country in a colonized area that makes money (ostensibly) off of rich world stamp collectors- if real, one thing, if Griffin created it on his own, a fascinating other, etc...).However what I really took away from it was a beautiful, sad statement on the capacity of people to dream a world, a love, a passion into their own reality, and some absolutely gorgeous, subtly created art that you could stare at and read into nearly endlessly.
Opening the book you realize soon enough that you have stumbled upon someone's mail - and you can't help but read it.
Some letters are on post cards, others have envelopes that you have to open and pull the letter out, unfold it and you contribute to the story by being the recipient...It's sort of like an adult pop-up book.
Each page a new letter or post card and the relationship grows.Each book in the series brings you closer to the hopes that these two people meet - and you wonder what might transpire...It makes you want to go out and check your mailbox.Enjoyed it...
Lovely little unusual book, takes about thirty minutes - give or take - to read.
I don't know if I'll follow up on the sequels (or other parts of the trilogy,) but it was a nice short break from reading mysteries, thrillers and horror novels.
About the correspondence between two artists, one of whom can see what the other is drawing.
I was not blown away, but found it a little 'delight,' like having an extra tea cake when I'm invited to a tea party.I never get invited to tea parties.
One of the cuter and more interesting picture books I've read lately, Griffin and Sabine imagines reading some one else's letters as exactly that.
This kind of interactive text, thought I can see all the ways it could become a horrible gimmick, is done exactly right in this short book.
Griffin is a visual artist, Sabine the woman from a small, mysterious island nation that, while having never met him, sees flashes of his art and life.
There's also a creepy element too, since Sabine happens to know a lot of random portions of Griffin's life and they have definitely never met.
(The video game Myst and the television series Lost spring to mind.) Visually speaking, the design and illustration don't seem at all dated and haven't lost one bit of their elegant appeal over twenty years.
On the contrary, I think the further advance of the Digital Age has merely driven up the stock of something as delightfully tactile as this series.
Publisher Chronicle Books also cleverly offered a set of actual postcards based on those featured in the books, of which I have a few samples.
(Wish I had a complete set!)
I loved this book for the pure pleasure of reading it--you have to pick up a physical copy (check your local library!
At first you're looking at a set of intriguing postcards recording the correspondence of Sabine, who lives on a far-off island but claims to know everything about her correspondent's art, and Griffin, a one-man postcard company.
Then the correspondence shifts to letters and you get to open envelopes and pull out letters to read.
The nerd in me just about died.The correspondence itself is thought-provoking as well: how does Sabine know things about Griffin's art that only he should know?
First epistolary series I ever saw or read. I LOVED these books. They were magical. The envelopes actually have STAMPS on them!!!
I could definitely see this book as a novel but I love that it is full of postcards and letters, with beautiful designs, and an intriguing story leaving me wanting more.
She had spent countless years seeing his beautiful drawings and yet never could discover a clue about his name until she read about a self-designer who makes post cards and featured a few of his illustrations that she recognizes.During the course of the story you get to see this interesting love story developing and at the same time we see a different behavior in Griffin.
An experiment in artificial "found" literature, the book follows the correspondence of two random people separated by miles and culture who are tied together by an inexplicable link.
This book is a window into that connection and their discovery of one another.
Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the book is it's presentation.
While it is a printed book, as much of the "correspondence" is maintained.
While there isn't a definite end to the book, and more questions are asked than answered, it is definitely worth a read if you can find a copy of it.
Click here to watch a video featuring this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.Nick Bantock entwines mystery and art in this subtly sensual correspondence between two intriguing characters.
(It doesn't take long.) The books comprise a fictional correspondence between two artists: Griffin (who lives in London, England) and Sabine (who lives in the Sicmon Islands somewhere in the Pacific Ocean).
The correspondence is in the form of post cards and actual letters in their individual envelopes.Griffin's letters are typed (not very well, though he does improve and is proud of it!) and Sabine's are handwritten in a beautiful script.
They are a pleasure to the eye and the touch.I loved the mystery behind the correspondence, I loved the art work (even though some of it was quite bizarre!), and I thoroughly enjoyed opening and reading the letters!
Told through epistolary exchanges between Griffin (a solitary artist in London) and Sabine (a mysterious woman from a tropical island), each correspondence is full of art, creativity and inner sentiments. We get a glimpse into the persona that is Griffin and Sabine. This was tad bit too short and definitely much too enigmatic not to pick the next one up. Now, I just need to start my search for a copy...
I'm not sure I'm totally sold on the mysticism of is-she-or-isn't-she, but this is a beautiful little book. I love the art and I think Bantock does a good job differentiating between Griffin's style and Sabine's. I bought this on a whim--which is to say, I've read it before, but never owned it, and picked it up used for cheap. It's in wonderful condition, with all the letters intact, so I feel like I've won a prize.
Another brilliant book! If you like an epistolary-book, the book is for you. There are postcards to be read and a real letter which can be opened. In the era of e-mails and Facebook, getting myself to read a real letter is a real deal, indeed. Makes me wonder, when was the last time I ever wrote a real letter to someone real. Can't wait to get it's sequel!
wowser look at this for fun!And I don't know who sent it - drop me a line if you are that angel!dedication: For Kim KasasianETA Overbylass was the gifting angel - thank you very much:O)
I know there are people who love this book but I finished it thinking that I needed my money back. In my opinion there was so much more that could have been done but it just lacked something.
I can't quite articulate what I liked so much about this book. I love letters and mail, stories and stationery, so that probably explains it. What a lovely graphic novel.
(She always gives the best gifts.) Now I see that the story picked up years later with 3 more books.
And I love it.Of course, I received these back in the day when time was on my side and before my creativity had been destroyed--back when I wrote handwritten letters to friends either on stationery or on papers I drew or painted or collaged myself (often a combo of the three), often stuffed inside the strangest, most eye-catching envelopes, often made from scraps of magazines and wallpaper samples and other found objects, all glued and taped together.
I actually also didn't think he worked to design stamps and stuff....Then since it did not end in death & carnage or at least a suicide pact...I figured..."oh, the boring guy was just talking to his muse but maybe he should take it easy...true "her" illustrations/designs were better than his...how can it not be?He is sitting in a boring flat in London being miserable and whiny...but he should get out a bit more before his personality splits irrevocably?"Anyway, I like the idea of the book...but not the characterisation...the idea of going through other people's letters probably add to the voyeuristic nature of this book.
Griffin and Sabine is about the correspondence of two people who share a magical connection through art.
Sabine can see what Griffin draws and paints as he creates and eventually finds a way to contact him and share her power.Despite the low page count, there is quite a story within these beautifully designed pages.
Each page is either a postcard, or has an actual envelope attached to the page that you can open and pull out the letter inside.
Details like this always excite me and I wish more books had special elements like this.
I, of course, will need to buy the rest of the books.
One of the most remarkable and charming books I've ever read. Through postcards and letters you come to know Griffin, an artist living in a big city, and Sabine, a young woman on a distant island, who have never met in person. But somehow Sabine can see what Griffin's painting, and so she strikes up a correspondence with him. They fall in love, but should they meet? And where?
WOW. I might be in love with this format! Getting to open letters in the book???? YES, please. And it's a super short read with a twist! I need books 2&3 ASAP.
Now I am wondering and wanting to have that kind of vision. Fasinating art and letters, an exciting start.
I don't understand it, but I think I like this. It has a good aftertaste.I think.
----Original review -- read in 2010.
As I was reading it, my husband turned to me and said, "That's a book you're reading?" as I was pulling out letters from their envelopes.
Written in a very non-traditional way, the book consists of letters of correspondence between Griffin, who was an artist in London, and Sabine who follows his work down in South America quite literally, as she seems to be in his head as he creates his art.It is a very unique concept and the pictures are either delicate and lovely, or deep and mysterious, but the layout of the book is enough to win over any art lover.
Emails, texts, tweets and status lines seem to be the way we communicate these days.
In some ways we are farther apart than we've ever been.I met my wife at the dawn of the Internet; neither of us had email addresses at the time.
Instead, we have hundreds of love letters in two shoeboxes detailing the history of our budding love.
Griffin & Sabine (which is sort of a children's book for adults) celebrates this romantic gesture of writing letters.
Over the course of a couple dozen postcards and letters (that you actually get to pull out and unfold!), readers are instantly drawn into a world of intimacy and budding self-honesty.
The feeling that I had been duped into picking up this book is what first came into my mind when I pulled it off of the shelf at the library.
Each page has the front of a picture postcard or an envelope, and on the reverse of each page is the writing side of the post card or an actual envelope with a flap that opens to reveal a single page (front and back of a letter).
The story line is actually intriguing.
Amazing how much of a story line between two people can go on in only 15 postcards and 4 letters.
