https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116158.Macroscope
In case my 5 star rating is insufficient to persuade you to try this book, I prepared the following comparison scale to chart the exact amount of awesomeness contained in the story.  5.0 Stars. I think we all have those books that we absolutely love that just never seem to get the attention that we are feel deep down in our giblets they deserve. I call these my literary babies. Well this is one of my babies**. ** I have previously reviewed two others Liege-Killer and Heroes Die which I am mentio
First, I did not find this an “easy” read and some of the plot elements and concepts are thrust upon the reader only to be explained further in the book (see my reference to Ancient History below as an example).
I think most people who have read Anthony's work will agree that the man can come up with some brilliant ideas.
I think most people would also agree that most of his books take a great idea and surround it with a significant amount of “MEH.” Even worse than the MEH component is the "SKEEVE" factor which afflict far too many of his stories.
You have some supergenius type who's supposed to know everything, and the way the author chooses to show you how clever they are is to have them demonstrate their knowledge of a word in some more or less obscure language.There was a fine example in Babel-17, which I reread last month.
Rydra Wong, the gorgeous supergenius poet and linguist, has ended up on this huge spaceship which turns out to be called Jebel Tarik.
Jebel, she says, means "mountain" in Old Moorish, so they're on Tarik's Mountain.
All well and good, but jebel, as I recently discovered, also means "mountain" in Arabic, a rather less exotic language than Old Moorish.
Macroscope (1969) whose complicated Space-Opera plot combines astrology with more traditional Sense-of-Wonder concepts like successful SETI and the use of the planet Neptune as a Spaceship. In constructing a series of sf devices in this book to carry across his concern with representing the unity of all phenomena, microscopic to macroscopic, Anthony evokes themes from Superman to Cosmology and Jungian Psychology; of all his works, this novel alone manages to seem adequately structured to convey the burden of a sometimes mercilessly hasty imagination.
The plot shows each of these characters as vital to the group's success, despite what appear to be huge differences in intellectual or personal development.The "hard" science fiction elements at first glance today might appear a bit dated, given a nomenclature that dates from the late 1960's.
But then hard science and technology are not really central themes of this novel.
These elements of the story are for me a necessary "window dressing" arrayed around more central themes like personal responsibility, the grandness of the Universe, and interpersonal dynamics.
One of the worst science fiction books I've ever read. Hard to follow, clumsy language, ridiculous dialogue, long and interminably boring tangents into astrology... there isn't much to like here. The central mystery of the book was just compelling enough to get through to the end, but the revelation wasn't all that satisfying and the denouement was very bland.
There's a place in the middle where we get the novel's best: it is hard science fiction from someone in awe of the universe, it is speculative fiction proposing wondrous possibilities, it is technological gadgetry made plausible and revolutionary.
More of all the worst of the elements - too much of what was an awful character quirk, too much astrology posing as hard science fiction, too many hops on the soap boxes, too many uses of the deus ex machina, too much awful dialogue.
Leaving you embarrassed for the macroscope, for the book, for Anthony, for science fiction....

More than thirty years after I first read this book, the exposition and environmental lectures at the beginning are a bit dull, but otherwise it is just as wonderful as when I first read it. So much for people who claim that you can't write technology-based sf anymore - you just need to have enough imagination to come up with something new and different.
Ironically, if he had simply not given any (lengthy) explanations of how it worked, it would have been much easier to suspend my disbelief.* I first started hating this book when the heroes try to escape the space cops from the UN and the protagonist randomly comes up with a new use for the Macroscope.
This alien uses astrology to find out that the character's wife is dead...* By the end, Piers Anthony must have run out of whatever he was smoking when he wrote this book, because nothing gets resolved.
I was told that Piers Anthony writes silly sci-fi, which I've never read before.
This is not a silly book, and ended up becoming one of my all-time favorite sci-fi reads.
Macroscope is so creative, well spun, and perfectly paced that once the ball got rolling it was really hard to put it down.So apparently Piers Anthony deserves some serious respect, and though I look forward to reading the next book (which just has to be silly based on the title), I also hope to dig up more serious works by him of this ilk.
I agree with Stephen.... nuff said.


My father has been asking me to read this book for ~30 years.
interesting book, awesome exposure to astrophysical concepts, i think perhaps some of the ideology and philosophy is a bit dated/misogynistic which can at time get in the way of relating to any of the characters.
I don't know if i'd read it again, or recommend it to a lot of people.
Potentially a decent primer on astrophysics and intergalactic/extra-galactic philosophy if you've never experienced it before (as it will all seem new, and the long explanations will feel less like the characters "mansplaining" concepts to you).
I first read this Macroscope in the 1970s when it came out. I was intrigued and its ideas and images stayed with me all these years. Finding my copy again, I read it again and loved it even more. It combines astrology with Type II and Type III technology in the context of a personal and human development.
When I read Macroscope as a teenager it took my breath away. I reread it as an adult and wondered what originally impressed me so much. I suspect I'll read it at least once again to make a final decision. Could be that I lost something as I grew older. Perhaps I'll find it again.
Fantastical voyage. A space opera of an unusual type.
20 лет прошло, а еще штырит.
1.5 stars. Better than his other stuff. Still not great though and the writing is rough.
I enjoy other Piers Anthony books more; however, I love what he's done with identity here and that was worth the whole read for me. The beginning was hard to master, but eventually I got sucked in.
Cheesy!![Some other reflections]:1> From the last time I watched the wonderful movie "Contact", based on Carl Sagan's awesome novel, one of the constant questions that lingered in the back of my mind was related to the conversation between Dr. Ellie Arroway and the alien (who has taken on the form of her long-dead father to ease the conversation).
On the question of how benevolent, advanced civilizations in the universe made contact with fledgling civilization such as our Earth, the alien explains that it has always been done in baby steps, with the increasing maturity of a civilization being rewarded with more communication and exchange of ideas.
A Wild Soup of Sprouts, Genius, and Astrology: A long, long time ago when the world was young and Anthony was a fresh new face in the science fiction world, he blessed us with works of power, incredible imagination, great originality, depth and meaning.
The psychological insights displayed here form a prime sub-text underneath the fantastic action of the story, and elevate this work well beyond a simple adventure novel.In most of early works, Anthony showed a predilection for playing with mathematical ideas rather than physics concepts, and this work is no exception, introducing the game of sprouts, an apparently simple pencil and paper game that the reader will find is actually a fiendishly complicated foray into the world of 'rubber-band' mapping (topology), neatly folded into and enhancing the main story line.
Just some its component elements include astrology, ancient history, Sidney Lanier's poetry, a grand history of a multifarious universe, and the wars it endured, mind destroying beams, a project to create genetically perfect geniuses.
Long before huge epic novels became the norm rather than the exception in sf, Piers Anthony created this massive book.
Ivo Archer, the protagonist is the product of one the aforementioned genius creating projects.
He becomes immersed in a plot to save the titualar macroscope, an instrument orbiting the earth.
A destroyer beam literally renders comatose any brain that tries get beyond it at a certain level.
I started reading this primarily for research purposes: something to do with language that destroyed language, like a snow crash.
However, I was pleased with this entry in classic scifi, and thought it far superior to Anthony's other work (incarnations of immortality series).
I liked Anthony's juggling of both hard science and astrology, and the fair depictions of alien cultures as well as transcendent species.
In all, Anthony is a better writer than his contemporaries (Asimov or Clarke) but the slightly disjointed structure of the book prevents it from attaining true classic status of the aforementioned contemporaries' best work.
I would like to give it four stars for the many cool ideas in it (using planets and moons as spaceships to punch through hyperspace; an intergalactic signal that if you're intelligent enough to understand leads you down an inevitable logical chain that burns your brain out, lobotomizing you; the nature of the mysterious character Schon; the weaving of the work of Civil War-era poet and musician Sidney Lanier into the story).
And overall Anthony does not quite pull all his grand gestures together successfully.
This probably deserved another star, but I just wasn't in the mood for some of it.The concept of the macroscope really got my interest. The ending was also quite amazing. The high gravity adaptation and FTL travel methods were a little over the top for me, but interesting nonetheless.I got very bogged down in the astrology and dream-sequences.If you liked the galactic alien civilization parts, you might like The Genesis Quest, Second Genesis or Startide Rising.
Really quite terrible, which is why it took me so long to finish.It starts with an interesting premise, explaining the device described in the first Hugo winning novel, The Knew They Were Right.
People are terraforming moons, making epic instantaneous space journeys, and mastering new physics.What stinks:The Tarzan problem, people "just get it," from mastering alien machinery to playing musical instruments.The characters are subjected to mental adventures, which are all in their heads, until two characters die from the mental adventures just as the book is ending.
What?The repeating theme of the zodiac having a real effect, aka, astrology, is just stupid.I've read at least 10 of Anthony's books.
Interesting and quite enjoyable.
Some scientists come across a signal from outer space that appears to be a instruction manual containing all of the knowledge from multiple extrasolar civilizations.
But there is a problem - a destroyer signal causes anyone who tries to view the information is turned into a virtual vegetable.
Enter Ivo, a young man who had been part of an experiment to create ultrasmart humans.
Afterward, circumstances dictate that he and four friends must flee the station and there begins a extragalactic adventure in search of the signal and the nature of the destroyer.
Loose and rambling with annoying stereotypical characters that made me think it was written in the 1950s when women were only either good wives or good-for-now.
It also struggles with identity, starting in pseudo noir then fumbling ineptly into the fantastic, finally coming out crudely and unsatisfyingly scrambled.If this had been the first book by Piers Anthony I had read, I would never pick up another of his books.
I love science-fiction.
Love fantasy, the absurd, the fantastic.
Macroscope belongs in the genre of awful, in the museum of fossilized relics we dust off on occasion to see from whence we came and relish how far we've come.
I'm trying not to give too much away about the story, but for me it was in parts similar to Douglas Adams' Hitchhiker's Guide (I guess as far as time-travel and the unexpected goes).
I read it many, many years ago and would love to get a copy and read it again.
I remember some good references to astrology, which resonated with me when I read it.
I must have been about 18 I'm guessing.Will try to read it again soon and see what it's like now.
The funny thing is that my husband loves the horrible Space Troopers movies
