https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588369.A_Place_Called_Here
I regret to say that I received this book two years ago and just now managed to actually read it.
Until this time of year, when I've been trying desperately to get everything out of that box and I finally decided to give this seemingly thick, impossible-to-get-through book a shot.
Boy, do I hate myself for waiting so long to read such a literary work of genius.
Cecelia Ahern does this, and does it flawlessly, with writing that is not at all awkward like much "good" writing seems to be, nor is it childish.
Cecelia Ahern is the literary genius I have been searching for.Rating: 5/5
I think Ahern could have made her ending much more powerful, instead it is left fairly ambiguous with a conclusion hanging in midair.
At times, I got really bored with the novel as it felt more like a fairytale story for children, not a book for adults.
In fact, Ahern, seemed to hint all along that Sandy would end up with Jack Ruttle, that somehow they 'connected'.
Clearly, a lot of people trapped there, Bobby especially, wanted to get out and return home to their family and friends.
Why was Sandy the only one that returned home?
I read this years ago, it was actually my first Cecelia Ahern novel. That should have been a big warning for me about how pointless her book can be sometimes, this one included. I remember it was about random things that just kept disappearing. It was boring, not a lot of action going on. Kinda like a sock missing in the washing machine. Ooo... mysterious.
Στο "θα σε βρω ξανά"το επίκεντρο της ιστορίας ειναι ολα τα χαμένα πρόσωπα-ζώα-πράγματα που εξαφανίζονται μυστηριωδώς και ο προορισμός τους ή ο τόπος που καταλήγουν.
Ο ΤΟΠΟΣ ΤΗΣ ΛΗΣΜΟΝΙΑΣ ΣΤΗΝ ΧΑΜΕΝΗ ΚΟΙΛΑΔΑ ΤΩΝ ΔΑΚΡΥΩΝ Θα μπορούσε να ειναι ένας σαφής χαρακτηρισμός της ιστορίας μας.
Που παει η αγάπη όταν πεθαίνει; Που καταλήγει το λησμονημένο γέλιο κάποιου αγαπημένου μας;Που βρίσκεται η χώρα των χαμένων ψυχών;Όσοι εξαφανίζονται και παραμένουν άφαντοι συναντιούνται κάπου σε ένα παράλληλο σύμπαν;Ότι χάνεται ειναι σίγουρο πως θα ξαναβρεθεί είτε πρόκειται για κάτι έμψυχο είτε για οτιδήποτε άψυχο;Τέτοιου είδους ερωτήματα δημιουργούνται στην πλοκή του βιβλίου και μπορώ να πω πως οι τελικές απαντήσεις δεν ειναι μυθοπλασίες ή προκαταλήψεις.
She is also very logical and organized, and has a compulsion to search for missing things - and people.
It all started when her neighbor Jenny-May vanishes when they are both ten years old.By the time the story starts, Sandy runs a missing persons agency.
She has reunited various lost family members, but there are still several unsolved cases which she has studied extensively.Then Sandy herself disappears, and finds herself in a different world: one filled with people and objects that have mysteriously gone missing from the real world.It's bizarre and surreal...
There are also some of the people whose cases Sandy was working on.
Funnily, this book has several different titles in English for example: "There's no place like here" and "A place called here".
Anyway, the Danish title that I wrote above translates to "A place nearby"I must admit that Ms. Ahern has a powerful imagination when she wrote this book.
Perhaps.The book tells the story of a misfit young teenager - now a young woman - called Sandy Shortt.
When she was 10 years old, her opposite neighbour's daughter Jenny May Butler went missing and nobody could find her and that tickled her inner soul to tell her unconscious mind that she must find any missing thing from that moment on.
Strašno neobična priča, štoviše nerealna. Ne mogu si predočiti to mjesto "Ovdje" odnosno shvatiti događaje u knjizi. Nije mi legla ova knjiga
اما نگه داشتن همه چیز توی ذهن غیر ممکنه و اصلا مهم نیست که چقدر سعی کنی نگهش داری.گاهی وقت ها مردم درست جلوی چشم ما ناپدید می شن.
گاهی هم با این که تمام مدت جلوی چشم دیگران هستیم ناپدید می شیم و دوباره پیدامون می کنن.
گاهی حتی خودمون رو هم نمی تونیم پیدا کنیم این درست موقعیه که از خودمون غافل می شیم.سندی بعد از گم شدن همکلاسی دوران کودکیش (بیست سال قبل از شروع ماجرا) دچار وسواس پیدا کردن وسایل گمشده ش میشه.
مادری که بعد سال ها خنده ی پسرش رو فراموش کرد.
After hearing an interview with Cecilia Ahern on a radio book show, I was interested to read her work.
It's not the kind of book I would ordinarily go for, but as she's such a successful author, I was curious to see what her stories were like.
The concept was interesting and at times the story was moving.
It was a neat fit in keeping with the theme of the book, to reference the Wizard of Oz into the story.
But it's like fast food for the brain.
I don't want to spend any more time remembering this book.

Interesting premise, about where missing objects go.
The whole thing had lots of potential, but I got so bored halfway through.
I finally snapped and decided I didn't really care about Sandy's missing sock or Sandy herself, who goes missing (oh the irony) and began skim-reading.
The concept itself that these missing things and people go somewhere where cultures and such coexist and people live in harmony and (lost) food pops up just like that to fill all bellies was SO ridiculous.
Sounds more like Children's fiction to me.
Like, I don't know, build a life for themselves instead of acting like complete lunatics obsessed over missing things.
This book is quite odd. There's a lot of repition thus far about Sandy searching for things. Just. Really. Nailing. That. Down. Ok, I agree with other reviews that this ending was totally cheesed out. I would have only give it 1 star if it hadn't been for the photo she ended up bringing back with her. But even then, I think the ending could have been done very differently. It also managed to get 3 stars out of me because the concept was cool. The idea that things really can be missing, not just misplaced.
Desse kan orang terkenal di Ireland bukan ya?Tapi begitu gue amati lagi, ternyata namanya ditulis seperti ini: CECELIA.Yang akhirnya membuat gue berpikir dan menginvestigasi *siap-siap pasang suara Feni Rose*, "apakah… Cecelia Ahern… sesungguhnya berasal dari Jawa Barat?
1981.Berarti dia lebih tua dari gue dong?Dan di Jawa Barat, perempuan yang lebih tua dipanggil apa?
Yang lebih normal dikit.Gue udah membaca 2 dari 3 novel Cecelia Ahern.
Atau kalaupun ada, si pembaca tidak dapat membuat kisah yang sama menariknya dengan yang ditulis Ceceu Lia.Maksud gue, pilihan apa yang bisa dibuat oleh gue disaat gue dihadapkan sama kasusnya Sandy Shortt?
But I never liked it enough to keep reading.
I decided on reading it again last month and I feel like it took me ages to read.
I really liked the concept of someone who hates it when things go missing.
Who starts a missing persons agency and then goes missing herself to end up on the place where the missing things and persons go.
And if Sandy would get home and find the 'Here' place so she could 'free' all the missing persons.But the ending, I think, was horrible.
But it took me almost 2 months to read it.
I couldn't care the least towards the characters....
I don't even like the character's name, Sandy Shortt.
Okay, that's trivial @_@ I just can't relate to her, even though I often lose things myself and desperately need to find them.And why the point of views?
Couldn't it be enough to use only one point of view?
I don't mind about multiple point of views, actually, but the question is, would I care enough to learn much about the characters?
If not, well, why bother to read each of the point of views?I have another book by Cecilia Ahern, The Gift.
3,5nicht so gut, wie ihre sonstigen Bücher
Secara pribadi aku sangat menyukai teori bahwa semuanya hilang dan begitu pergi ke suatu tempat, kadang-kadang karena pilihan kita, kadang-kadang karena kekuatan di luar kendali kita, tetapi "ketika kita belajar tentang apa yang jiwa kita perlu belajar, jalani hadiah itu sendiri" dan yang paling indah hal tentang tersesat adalah bahwa "kita menemukan" jika seseorang masih mencari kita di luar, kita selalu menemukan.Aku suka dunia kata-kata Cecelia menggunakan dalam setiap buku, itu indah, sederhana tapi manis dan menyentuh.
"Here" is where my small, blue, fragile toy kangaroo has now found shelter in, where those pens I've previously thought just went inside somewhere deep in my pants' pockets have probably nested about, where that Pokemon book I was dying to read when I was eleven had got teleported to, and where my white Converse shirt has now has now found home in Bobby's stock.
Ahern knows how to appeal to sentiments, especially the thoughts of losing, the pain of coping, and the agony of waiting.
The book hit closer to eight years ago when finding my lost toys was everything I had to my name.
Knjigu sam dobila uz kupljenu Frank kavu. Uzela sam ju jer je imala zanimljivu omotnicu i jer, Bože moj ne treba nikad odbiti besplatnu knjigu kad već svakako kupujem tu kavu. :)Ali ne mogu reći ni da mi se baš svidjela ni da je ostavila neki super dojam na mene. Svi hvale Cecu, al meni se (pročitavši zasad dvije njene knjige) ne čini kao neka posebno dobra autorica.
I actually stopped reading this book half way through (something I RARELY do). I don't know if it is because I'm not feeling well, or the book itself, but I just couldn't read any more. I skipped to the final pages, and lo and behold the ending was just what I thought it would be, so I figured why read another 150 pages.
Já li há uns anos e do que me recordo é que foi um desapontamento, o tema era curioso, mas quanto a mim algo falhou. Considerei-o desinteressante.
though we seldom admit it, we become lost.In "There's No Place Like Here" we see an imaginative world where all missing things go.
Somehow you felt a little lost most of the time but it helped to add in the pot of confusion that leads to enlightenment in the end.Which is to say simply..
I thoroughly enjoyed myself and at the same time I pondered on the realizations I've made since I started reading and felt that I learned a lot from this book.
I love her style of writing, and her ability to make magic and fairy tales come to life for adults.This book is about a place called Here, where all missing things and people end up.
Sandy Shortt is a 34 year old woman who has had an obsession searching for missing things since she was 10 and a girl in her class dissappeared.
Sandy now runs a missing persons agency, and agrees to help a man named Jack find his brother who has been missing for over a year.When Sandy wonders off into the woods right before she is about to meet with Jack, she ends up in a place called Here.
Ενα βιβλιο που μιλαει για το κουραγιο κ την υπομονη, την πιστη που πρεπει να εχουμε στους αγαπημενους μας κ πανω απο ολα ποτε να μην ξεχναμε... εξαλλου τιποτα δεν πηγαινει στο πουθενα, ολα καπου καταληγουν αρκει να συνεχισουμε να ψαχνουμε, να μην λησμοναμε.
Vlot en heel graag gelezen! Origineel uitgangspunt met spannende en emotionele momenten. Niet alle personages zijn even goed uitgewerkt en het einde wordt plots heel snel afgehandeld, jammer, ik had gerust nog wat langer op de plek van de verloren dingen willen toeven. Aanrader voor iedereen die van wat magie houdt! Niet voor rationalisten...
I think that I'm in Cecelia Ahern mood! ;-)
Of course, there are a handful of individuals she never finds and these people she carries around with her and is always following up on leads to discover something new.
Sandy goes missing, Jack is now the person trying to locate Sandy and in the process he discovers where his brother is.
On the other hand, we the readers, discover where all the missing items and people go, Sandy has found them.
Sandy finds many on her list of missing including the first person to go in her life, but not Donald...
She now runs a missing persons agency - she has been obsessed with finding missing things since a classmate went missing aged 10.
I try to dial my cynicism down a notch when I read Cecelia's books.
I don't know if the description of how Irish Coffee was invented, the description of changing a "diaper" or the description of how to correctly pour Guinness were in the European version or if that was solely for the US market but all three irritated me.
I found her obsessions unbelievable and irritating.
The premise was interesting, but the place Sandy went lacked atmosphere and the book dragged for me.
i agree you cannot be into a story unless you believe in author's imagination, and this is not the first time i came across this soft magical touch Cecilia ahern grazes her novels with, (the book of tomorrow, thanks for the memories, the time of my life).
let's see, the characters, ok the girl who has obsessive compulsive disorder regarding losing things, sandy shortt, (6 feet tall!) is someone who lacks the ablity to express but babbles enough in her mind.
i don't get it, if you have to develop a cold character, i would think of it as a premature attempt because this girl feels everything, and reflects herself just the way world think of her.
4,5 *
