https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147222.You_Just_Don_t_Understand
Deborah Tannen made her reputation with this examination of the differences in the ways men and women communicate.
The main thesis is that women value community, empathy and friendship within a group while men are always struggling to find their place in a hierarchy and if possible raise it.
It means there's room in my life both for my love for her and my desire to read the newspaper over breakfast.
Having read this book, I've decided to try being a little more empathetic in my interactions with women.
If I was feeling really snarky I would put this on the "fiction" shelf.This is marketed as a self-help book, and the writing itself is quite pleasant and accessible, but it makes a lot of sweeping statements about language and gender relations without backing them up with research.
-- but as far as I'm aware the research to back up her claims just doesn't exist.
It's a lot like Men are From Mars, Women are from Venus: The Language Version.I actually own this because I found it used for cheap, it's an interesting look at what People In General think about language and gender, and because I am a cranky SOB and like to pick on it.
به نظر من هر انسانی براش به شدت مفیده کتابی در مورد تفاوت مدل ذهنی زنان و مردان، مخصوصا نوع صحبت کردنشون بخونه.البته تازه بعد خوندن این کتاب به این موضوع رسیدم(: قبلا دو تا کتاب در مورد dating(مخ زدن) خونده بودم، ولی این کتاب یه چی دیگه بود.باعث میشه که آدم فهم بهتری از رفتارهای نیمی از انسانهای دیگه داشته باشه. رفتارهایی که قبلا براش عجیب بودن یا احمقانه رو بهتر درک کنه.ایدهی پایهای این کتاب اینه که در نگاه به دنیا و روابط، مردان اولویت بالاتری به سلسلهمراتب میدن و زنان اولویت بالاتری به ایجاد

Forget Men are From Mars and Women are From Venus.... go right to the scholarly work that started it all. If you want to better understand what can, and often does, go wrong between men and women in conversation this is a must read.
So far this is fascinating and enlightening. The only thing I'm unsure about is whether the author will provide good suggestions for how to bridge the gap between typical masculine and typical feminine styles of communication. But I love how she is careful to always point out how BOTH have to compromise some but also BOTH have inherent value--one is not better than the other, one should not conform more to the other.
Understanding the other's ways of talking is a giant leap across the communication gap between women and men, and a giant step toward opening lines of communication." Which to me kind of says, I don't really know if things will ever be different, but by just understanding it should get better.I found this book helpful and frustrating at the same time.
In the end, it's a book about the conflicting needs for independence and intimacy, and how simply by talking they way we know how, we may be making things worse-for ourselves and for other loved ones.
Problems may arise when women and men try to converse with one another, because women will feel that men's styles don't give them room to breathe, don't allow give and take, and automatically put them on the defensive (as men will use banter and argument as a way of establishing dominance, or merely having a good time).
It's not even just that it's men and women who have difficulty talking with one another it's people with different (perhaps incompatible) styles that will have problems.One way of thinking about it, before you blow up at how your conversation partner is communicating, is to ask yourself what their intentions behind the conversation are.
But when girls got together with no boys present, they talked very differently." (237)"Boys and girls grow up in different worlds, but we think we're in the same one, so we judge each other's behavior by the standards of our own." (254)"...when women are with partners, they make more adjustments and accommodations, buying harmony at the cost of their own preferences.
her generalizations are too broad and she oversimplifies when she seeks to characterize male and female communication styles, but she struck a chord with me. tannen, a sociolinguist, includes lots of dialogues between men and women, with focus on where they come to blows, verbal blows. based on the notion that women seek social connections and men are looking for stature or position with respect to their interlocutors. whatever its shortcomings, i had to smile for all the times her examples rang a bell in my own experience.
I was listening to this book on an audio book because I was just doing research on feminist issues for a project and I actually found a lot of insightful things contained in it.
But, it's helped me understand my relationships a lot more, especially with female-male relationships.
I think it's really helped and I understand why people get annoyed if you talk to them too much about your ideas about things...
I think it really helped.
I think more research should be done about why men and women divorce so more of an understanding can come from the gender gap.
Deborah Tannen has a keenly tuned ear and a unique ability to see patterns of communication style of which most of us are unaware.
In this book, she explains her insights into the vast cultural differences separating men and women which influence - and often complicate - nearly all of our daily communication both within and between genders.
It offers liberation from character assassination during conflicts in communication and the opportunity to understand others' perspectives so that we don't get hung up on communication style in our relationships or our communication about really important issues.
Looks like just another self-help book, but Tannen is the real deal: a professor of linguistics who studies conversations. Talks about how everybody thinks they're being direct, but most people have unacknowledged styles of indirectness. Also how differently people tolerate interruptions, trade roles of talking and listening, and vary between informational and emotional conversation.
این کتاب پر از سرنخهاییست که نشون میده چرا خیلی از مشکلات توی روابط عاطفی ما پیش میاد.خوندن این کتاب رو قبل از ورود به هرگونه رابطه عاطفی به شدت توصیه میکنم.
این کتاب پر از سرنخ‌هاییست که نشون میده چرا خیلی از مشکلات توی روابط عاطفی ما پیش میاد.خوندن این کتاب رو قبل از ورود به هرگونه رابطه عاطفی به شدت توصیه می‌کنم.
When women engage in troubles talk they are sending the meta message of connection and building rapport.Examples of these patterns for the different genders and communication can be seen in all age groups including when individuals are young.
Men also tend to take longer turns in speaking in public while women Stearns range in shorter periods.Men silence at home can disappoint a woman, if she does not understand his nature and relaxing at the homestead and not talking about things she might consider relationship building.
Though she does acknowledge there are exceptions to gender-specific communication, You Just Don't Understand serves as another example that gender is on a sliding scale rather than on a fixed point.
Throughout the book I found myself relating to either what she describes as the traditionally men's point of view or a combination of both.
For example, when presented with a friend's problem, Dr. Tannen illustrates that men will mitigate the problem by dismissing it as unimportant in order to decrease their friend's anxiety over it (there are several ways to do this) while women will show support and agreement with the friend's anxiety in order to make her feel that she's not dealing with it alone (there are several ways to do this also).
Absolutely fascinating. I found this to be the most helpful books on communication and relationships that I've ever read. Tannen keeps a lively pace, making her research accessible with clear examples from a variety of situations from the playground to the boardroom. P.S. Do not bother with the abridged audio version. The presentation does not need to be abridged and the abridgment undercuts the impact of the material.
So I did not finish this book because honestly, I got bored. I also felt like some of the info was outdated. My rating is based on the chapters of the book that I did read.
herterosexist and closed minded. If you can look past that I guess there's some interesting points, but so hard to look past.
I wouldn't categorize it as a psychology or behavioral sciences book. There are too many anecdotes presented by the author and the conclusions are over simplified. After a point, I just combed through the content, and my take aways from the book are absolutely none.
The girls fight for status using outright control (using orders instead of the "let's" construction Tannen talks about), and the boys are not fidgety physical superficial horrors.The best part of the book may well be the poem "In the Crook of His Neck" by Cheryl Romney-Brown:Fine hairs on his shoulders gleamlike epaulets, reminding me of silkmulberry threads Penelope usedfor tapestries spun waitingfor her hero to come home.We, women, always long for mento step out of a myth or a Marlboro ad.It begins all over again as hecaresses my back.
For them, the comfort of home means the freedom to talk without worrying about how their talk will be judged." (p 86)--"It is not surprising that women are most comfortable talking when they feel safe and close, among friends and equals, whereas men feel comfortable talking when there is a need to establish and maintain their status in a a group." (p 94)--"Girls and women feel it is crucial that they be liked by their peers, a form of involvement that focuses on symmetrical connections.
Certainly provided a lot of insight and helped with some questions I have long endeavored to understand regarding man/woman communication.
For my brothers and several other male friends, not so much...Now in reading back though above comments I see that I used my personal relationships to either verfiy or deny the information in this book.
- which I believe is an exact point Ms. Tannen makes in the book - women often use their personal experiences to make their points.
I feel like this information would me most helpful in a business setting.
It provides simple insight to both understand and communicate more effectively.
This book will absolutely change the way you see the world and I'm recommending it to literally everyone, including acquaintances.If you're looking at the title and assuming it's going to be studies to segregate men and women unfairly and blame one group or the other, my advice would be to at least read the preface before deciding to avoid it.
The author was great about explaining both sides, and providing evidence in the form of research and experiment findings, interviews, fictional and non-fictional anecdotes, etc.The thesis of the whole book is that men and women are raised to socialize in subtly different conversational patterns, and their different "genderlects" (as it's put near the end of the book) often cause misunderstandings akin to cross-culture miscommunication.
Read this book.[return][return]Do you ever wonder why even your own gender acts in such a particular why?
The book cites studies of children and shows how they show many of the same communicative patterns of adults.
The author also refers to a variety of literature and personal anecdotes to illustrate situations.[return][return]My husband even picked up this book and flipped through and said he was impressed by it.
My husband rarely reads books.[return][return]As a writer, I think this book will be an excellent source for honing dialog and creating conflict.
I wish more men would read this book (and all women with any ambition should read Tannen's 'talking from nine to five').
My partner, a very educated professional liberal type seems to think it's Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus and refuses to touch it, which is simply ridiculous and not at all what this book is like.
All of Tannen's assertions are grounded in research, and she's careful not to stereotype, despite what some reviewers here think.
I particularly found convincing Tannen's evidence drawn from single-gender groups of children and her deconstruction of how they learn to interact from one another, and how they learn to successfully operate within single-gender contexts.
Deborah Tannen has produced yet another well written and well researched book with a very readable style. In "You Just Don't Understand, Tannen explores and explains the subtle and not-so subtle differences in gendered communication. This is a must read for anyone who wants to listen beyond just words, and appreciate the different styles of gendered communication, and also for teachers, supervisors, team leaders et al, who really want to communicate better. I recommend it to all my students in vocational training and education.
I reread this book a few weeks ago, having first read it about 15 years ago. It is a classic. I needed to be reminded of the stylistic differences between men and women in conversation.I was having the feeling that some of the communication barriers I was having with my husband were mainly about the way we use language and how we interpret language, based on the paradigms we live in. Wish I had more time to give a more thorough review, but it was an excellent read and resource.
I was struggling through this book, trying to find a point in it. Most of the information seemed to be repeating itself over and over, and quite honestly, I just grew tired of the redundancies. Basically, the whole book could be summed up in one or two pages. Also, the author kept describing one example after the other for certain behaviours, but I never felt like she explained WHY certain people/genders showed certain behaviors. Lots of generalizations, too. Pretty disappointing.
The book had some revolutionary conclusions on how men and women approach conversations, interactions, life, which will forever change the way I interact with individuals, people of different cultures. But the journey was dry, I jumped in between to other books, did other stuff , anything but read - at least 30/40 times, it was a struggle to continue, I wished the author had just summarised instead of dragging it so long. Could have been shorter.3 stars.
Trailblazing. First book I can remember reading that really pointed out how women put themselves at a disadvantage in the way they communicate at work. Apologizing for things they have no control of and often times no connection to. We tend not to talk up our accomplishments whereas men do etc. I think this was one of the first books to explore these types of things.
