https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869976-the-glass-blowers
Where "MaryAnne" comes from Daphne's grandfather, George du Maurier's mother's English roots, "The Glass-Blowers" comes from his father's French roots.
"The Glass-Blowers" story begins before the French Revolution and is about Mathurin and Magdaleine Busson and their family.
This story is not all about the Revolution but of a family that lived during those times and it had a huge impact on their lives.
As the wounded in "Gone with the Wind" were described and pitied, "The Glass-Blowers" scene where the wounded are dying in their house was enough to know both sides suffered and some paid with it in their lives.
In The Glass-Blowers, Daphne du Maurier explores her French family background through historical fiction, much as she did for another branch of her family in Mary Anne. In this novel, the stormy backdrop is the French Revolution. Du Maurier’s forbears, the Bussons (du Maurier was later added as an affectation by one of the brothers), were a family of master craftsmen in the art of glassblowing.  Source: Wikimedia Commons Glassblowing, of course, is an apt metaphor for the Revolution itself. “Con
In The Glass-Blowers, Daphne du Maurier explores her French family background through historical fiction, much as she did for another branch of her family in Mary Anne.
There comes this supreme moment to the glass-blower, when he can either breathe life and form into the growing bubble slowly taking shape before his eyes, or shatter it into a thousand fragments.”Du Maurier chooses to examine the French Revolution from a slightly unusual perspective.
Her account is therefore a distant memory, rather than a currently lived experience, as is the case for Mantel's and Piercy's characters.
In addition, the narrative lacks the wonderfully descriptive language found in novels such as Rebecca and My Cousin Rachel, which du Maurier uses to such great effect to evoke a sense of place.
It's interesting to see the French Revolution from the perspective of people living outside Paris, whose involvement in events is somewhat more marginal than that of the characters dealt with in Mantel's and Piercy's novels.
For Robert, the eldest working his craft in the countryside is not enough and he dreams of greatness in Paris - but unable to manage his spending he always ends up in financial disaster and bankruptcy and he depends on his family to bail him out time and again.
The countryside where the Busson family lives is not greatly affected by the first stirrings of the revolution in the cities, but that soon changes when Michel and Sophie's husband Francois become National Guardsman and find themselves slowly being caught up in the nationalist fervor sweeping the country.
It is loosely based on the ancestors of the family du Maurier from France as far back as the 18th century.
It is a story about a family of glass blowers and all the politics that affected them like the French Revolution and the Reign of Terror to Napoleon Bonaparte's advancement.
I liked it most bc who would think to write about glass blowers...?
VERY ORIGINAL>>>It is amazing that Maurier could trace her family heritage so far back.
If you like European historical fiction, this being French, I highly recommend the story and author.
I found this historical fiction based on du Mauriers French ancestors at the time of the French Revolution a flat, bland, albeit well written, recitation of what happened with very little of the personal about it, or any sense of people or place. It was less than engaging, hard to care about the characters and easy to put down. Not one of Du Mauriers better efforts but having said that, even a mediocre du Maurier is better than some other author's best efforts.Buddy read with Kim :-).
The Glass-Blowers, #8 on the 1963 bestseller list, is in the historical fiction mode.
The author was descended from a family of glass-blowers and honors them with her novel.Some readers are more pleased with the gothic novels but I like both of her genres, especially because in the historical ones I always learn pieces of history I didn't know.
It showed the daily and yearly challenges that such political turmoil brought to the livelihoods and history of families, especially families who were intrinsic to the character of the society and nation that was France in the late 18th century.I finished the book with the realization that my knowledge of the French Revolution and its outcomes is rather thin.
In The Glass-Blowers, du Maurier reaches into her own historical background, as she did with Mary Anne, to tell a story of a family of glass workers during the French Revolution.
Unfortunately, also as with Mary Anne, although she tells an interesting story, she fails to make it emotionally engaging.
It occurs to me to wonder whether, when writing historical fiction based closely upon research and facts, du Maurier felt so tied to the historical facts that she couldn't fictionalize it enough to make it interesting.
Frenchman's Creek is historical fiction, yet not based on historical characters, and it's much better than either The Glass-Blowers or Mary Anne.
Du Maurier's novel is really a family saga set during the revolution.
The section about the 'Grand Peur', a period in which rural France was swept with rumours of brigands and disaster, was especially vivid.
After all, it was the French Revolution, not the Parisian Revolution.I found the depiction of women in this novel especially striking, and very moving.
'The Glass-Blowers' is narrated by a woman, whose mother is depicted as its most steadfast, strong, and wise character.
Overall, I really enjoyed this novel, both as a moving family drama and as an account of the late 18th century and early 19th in rural France.
One of the main themes of the novel is as follows: ‘A glass-blower, remember, breathes life into a vessel, giving it shape and form and sometimes beauty; but he can with that same breath, shatter and destroy it’.Whilst The Glass-Blowers has been nicely crafted and is relatively interesting, it feels a little lacklustre in comparison to a lot of du Maurier’s other novels.
The novel is largely involved with family affairs – marriages, births, deaths, and not much else.Whilst it is well researched, and the parts about the Revolution are interesting, there is a real lack of emotion in The Glass-Blowers, an element which I personally think is of importance in any novel, historical or otherwise.
Set in France during the French Revolution, which made for quite an intersting read. Totally different from other Daphne du Maurier I have read, but supposed to be based on her own family history. As the name of the book suggests - they were glass blowers.
I also like how the author showed that a few words to another, idea shared, or example of life has major impacts on others personal decisions etc...so often this is also true in real life...be it good or bad.
One of my favorite sentences from the book..."It is a disadvantage to see the past as clearly as the present, and to carry a picture in the forefront of one's mind which is as vivid today as on the day it happened." ...I find this very true in some situations, but certainly not in others.
Feudalism has him in thrall as it has the whole country.'""'by abolishing the fuedal system the power of the privileged would be broken, and the money they take from all our pockets would go towards giving the country a sound economy." This appears in the books as of winter 1789.I'm not sure that America today is as ideal as it was meant to be so very long ago.This is also a great story, like so many other families, where the brothers all have different goals, and through their greed, they run a great business into the ground.Great, great story!
Some of the children carry on the tradition but the times change as does the mindset of family members as to what they desire and how to carry forth their family talents.What was most interesting to me was that I had just finished reading a biography of du Maurier which noted why she wrote this novel and gave some insight as to her writing style and influences on that style which, I think, made this read even more interesting.
Even though we have a least six Daphne du Maurier books on our shelves, I had never actually read one until now. I really enjoyed this take on the French Revolution. It took place mainly away from Paris (in that way similar to Annette Vallon: A Novel of the French Revolution, a book I really loved). There was less emphasis on the guillotine and more on family dynamics. A very interesting read.
Daphne du Maurier travelled to France to research ancestors who were involved in the glass blowing industry, and was inspired to write this excellent book, which gives an unusual perspective on the times before, and during the French Revolution.Not only does this book have an exciting plot and great characters, it's also an absorbing history lesson....
Not the usual du Maurier. Nothing mysterious or sinister. This book is a recount of a family of glass engravers surviving during the time of the French Revolution, written as a memoir of Mme. Duval. What could have become a rather dry, boring historical recount is brought to life by du Maurier’s rich, vibrant and vividly descriptive style and her precisely drawn characters.
I very much enjoyed this story. It was too long at the end but still a good read. I would not re-read it though. This has lots of good history.
As the story progresses and a hard winter combined with high bread prices stokes the fires of resentment among the poorer classes, Sophie finds her family caught up in the vacillating tides of revolution.“I’ve been saying this for years,” my brother Pierre would remark, when he came to visit us.
Feudalism has him in thrall as it has the whole country...”"How, I asked, “would having a written Constitution make any of us the better off?”“Because,” answered Pierre, “by abolishing the feudal system the power of the privileged would be broken, and the money they take from all our pockets would go towards giving the country a sound economy.” When Robert flees to London to avoid prosecution for bankruptcy, he leaves his young son Jacques behind in the care of his mother.
3.5 stars warm well written story. I just felt a little put of my depth with the french history but otherwise it was a great read.
I have to say, this was pretty boring. There was no emotion in the telling of this story. I did not care for the characters because there was no description of their feelings. Just facts. It does not make for gripping reading.
I can think of a great many periods in history I prefer to the French Revolution, and a great many events I would rather live through if a time-traveler put a gun to my head and demanded I choose.
The Glass-Blowers tells the story from a different perspective, the perspective of the working-class people who saw in the Revolution their own salvation and the gateway to prosperity for the nation, not just for the aristocrats...and then were disillusioned, not so much by bloodshed, but by the corruption inevitable in fallen man.
Daphne du Maurier used her own ancestry to write this historical fiction.
I was really excited by the idea - using your own family's history to tell an engaging story.
But I wasn't all that engaged.I found the history itself more interesting than the characters, which seems to be a bad trend I'm finding myself in right now with the books I've been reading.
Du Maurier needed to remove herself just a touch more to have really written a wonderful work of historical fiction.
The lives of a family (who work in or are related to people that work in the glass blowing industry) are told against the backdrop of the French Revolution.The story is good, but I found it was loss in too much detail and asides. If this book had been ruthlessly edited it would have been much better.One for the Daphne du Maurier (or history) fans rather than the general reader.
This is a great book about the French revolution from the perspective of a family of glass blowers. It was educational...in that good way. It provides a realistic view of how war can affect your perspective on a myriad of things...how it can sometimes pervade all thought and how it can sometimes be ignored.
This book was obviously very well researched and written. I did enjoy it. But somehow it felt a little impersonal. It is a "fictional" work yet was so full of factual prose I found it harder going than a regular novel. Still, the descriptions of the terrifying French Revolution I found enlightening from the perspective offered. Very chaotic and brutal and ruthless.
This is a story based on Daphne Du Maurier's own family history. The story of her ancestors who were glass blowers during the French Revolution.
Daphne du Maurier delves into her own family history to come up with this fascinating historical novel set against the turbulent times of the French Revolution.
He lives on impulse, thrives on fiction, causes enormous damage by doing so, yet he's a charmer and gets away with it (most of the time).
Along the way you gain insight on the historical context of the French Revolution, its causes and its aftermath, but it’s always from the family’s perspective and that’s what makes the novel so compelling.For readers who want to find out just how much is true, du Maurier also published a non-fictional account of her family history.
I tried to like this book more than I did but I was not fully engaged in the characters.
The original glass blowers in France (the story is set against the backdrop of the French Revolution) were an odd subset of French society.
They had their own customs, their own language, and they didn't let outsiders into their society.
But as the revolution comes violence from outsiders comes with it.
Typically I like du Maurier, and this book had a lot to like about it, telling the story of an ancient (2,100 year old) profession is interesting in the details but it lacks emotional impact.
I didn't care very much about the characters.
Extremely well researched historical novel of the French fictional family, the Busson's before, during and following the French Revolution.
Told by one of the sisters, Sophie, the story follows the five children of Mathurin Busson.
Although an interesting way to learn the history of the French Revolution and the years that followed, the characters did not have any really depth and I really didn't feel anything for them.
There was a lot of French history which did bring to light some things I hadn't read about before, which sparks my interest in some actual French history.It is interesting that the author was related to a family of glass-blowers - not something you read about too often.
