https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24452249-did-you-ever-have-a-family
Rough as life can be, I know in my bones we are supposed to stick around and play our part. Even if that part is coughing to death from cigarettes, or being blown up young in a house with your mother watching. And even if it's to be that mother. Someone down the line might need to know you got through it. June Reid's daughter Lolly, Lolly's fiance Will, her ex-husband and her now boyfriend Luke are killed in a fire while June has to watch. It's on the eve of her daughter's wedding. The aftermat
I feel like I could reach into the book and touch them.
And it might be you never know the part you played, what it meant to someone to watch you make your way each day.
Or at least this reader will carry them.This story makes the reader realize that no matter how small a life or a decision might be that it touches multiple lives.Probably, there will always be wrinkled noses, folks who make jokes about the Moonstone dykes or the little boy on the rez who likes to wear his mom's earrings, or me, the half-breed, bastard bitch who lives with her sisters.
This is a rare - exceptional- elegant- book.
What distinguishes this novel from all others?
Do not miss reading this novel!
It's absolutely one of the best fiction books this year!!!!Here's a quote I just happened to like:"When you see someone every day for a while, you settle into a rhythm and you come to count on them even if for nothing more than fifteen minutes each morning they spend sitting at your counter, on one of your stools, talking about the weather and giving you a big smile and thumbs up when they sink their teeth into a poppyseed muffin".

I felt I was already there with them, that immediate sense of connection, knowing each and every survivors life would be forever altered.
I love character studies, and the author, Bill Clegg, makes each and every one feel so deeply real.
And, speaking of characters, Clegg brings in many that are tangential.
But, it was exactly at this point the story tightened.
Ones life is filled with people who may seem insignificant but are connected to us in ways we might never have imagined.
As the story tightens, each character has a story to tell, and don't we all?
3.5 Stars The truth will set you free...... This explosively tragic story of devastating loss has a complex narration told from many different perspectives that I found confusing throughout a good portion of the book.There is a great story here though that comes together nicely in the last quarter, but overall, it was a somewhat frustrating read for me with an overabundance of minor characters who distracted from the main event.Based on the high ratings and wonderful reviews, I'm feeling pretty
3.5 Stars
  The truth will set you free......
This explosively tragic story of devastating loss has a complex narration told from many different perspectives that I found confusing throughout a good portion of the book.There is a great story here though that comes together nicely in the last quarter, but overall, it was a somewhat frustrating read for me with an overabundance of minor characters who distracted from the main event.Based on the high ratings and wonderful reviews, I'm feeling pretty much alone here, but really would have felt more connected had the storyline curtailed the players.
What emerges are stories and memories, shared hopes and fears of those whose lives were lost and those who fight for a reason to live.Did you ever have a family is a statement rather than a question.
A reminder of being grateful for those who surround us, love us and come in all shapes and sizes.
They can bring us much joy, hope, strength and also have the power to bring us to our knees in anguish.
One that reminded me how grateful I am for my family.
Did you ever have an editor
I was so engrossed in the putting the pieces together of the characters before and after the tragedy.
"Did you Ever Have A Family" begins after the most unspeakable of tragedies occurs to June Reid.
An explosion completely takes away her family.
June takes off in her Subaru across the country and then the story unravels from there.
Short chapters told from many points of view and through these beautifully written chapters you find out the mystery surrounding those that died and those around them.I especially liked reading about the one character, Lydia, the mother of Luke, June's boyfriend killed in the explosion.
This book was phenomenal, in so many ways.
And for a majority of the book I was really enjoying it, but that ending--while not mind-blowing or particularly shocking--gave me chills.
It's these kinds of books, ones that you can't put down, that bring you to tears, or resonate deeply within you, that stay with you the most.
It makes you grateful for the community around you; friends, family, even the people you don't think affect your life, but at the end of the day are all part of your story.
And I have a feeling that this story will last.
But for some of them, the four voices were raging from the graves, begging for their story to be told, calling them each by name.
But the trouble with NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH was that it had so many voices...
Most important one is that a deeply touching story can be told in 217 pages!(Tripple the stars for that alone!) One of the best books this year by far.
Free at last.A striking title for a book exposing the microscopic building blocks of a small town in Connecticut which they all called home.
I often found it dull.There’s disappointingly little range in his characters’ voices (hence it’s hard to tell them apart), and the book is nearly humourless.
Believe me, a born novelist would find a way to insert humour, if only for contrast.) And I’m not sure why some sections are narrated in the first-person and others are in the third.Plus, call me a curmudgeon, but I’m getting tired of the interconnected story device, the “we’re-all-part-of-the-same-universe!” “isn’t-life-mysterious!” structure - whether it’s in film (Babel, Crash) or books.I love genuine fictional epiphanies, but I hate when they’re forced, and what Clegg tries to pull off here feels slightly phony.
Reeling with grief and regret, June flees the town she has lived in for years, seeking refuge in a place where her daughter once knew happiness.
The title Did You Ever Have A Family asks that question and so much more.
The death of a loved one or of one we have once loved may bring feelings of sorrow, grief, emptiness, and even guilt.
Bill Clegg succeeds in showing us the devastation that a tragedy brings to many lives in a small community.
Did You Ever Have A Family is at times heart wrenching, thought provoking, and presents an original eye to what lies in our hearts.
I generally am driven by the plot of a book, closely followed by the character development.
Quickly falling to character development, it's fantastic.
By the middle of the book, you know what actually happened to kick off the tragedy, but relating the story each character tells is where you find the soul of the plot.
I highly recommend you read this book over a few days, not all at once.
Take time to think about the characters, how they relate to folks in your own life, and figure out what the meaning ultimately is to you.
Besides, even without the question mark, I think it’s a lame title—it’s a mouthful, plus it has zero impact on me.The real question, of course, is what I thought about the book, not about a damn AWOL question mark.
(One of the kids happens to be the lover of the other mother, so emotionally it’s pretty complicated.) Each chapter is told from a different point of view—the two mothers, of course, plus some minor characters.
A great writer is one who can create totally different voices, which makes the story and the characters real.
Did You Ever Have A Family has an unheard of 4.36 from my friends and those people have some serious diversity when it comes to what they like and don’t like.
There were a few moments when I had to regroup and figure out if I was reading a Lydia or June chapter, but I blame it on trying to fit my head in the gasbox next to the turkey rather than a problem with the writing itself.I don’t recommend a lot of books, but I’m recommending this one.
I don’t blame you.
'To be given a glimpse now was a bitter miracle, a ghostly caress that left more regret than solace.'One minute you have a family, and the next you do not.
In the aftermath, you are left to make some sort of peace with mistakes made, things taken for granted, words left unsaid.
So much rides on seemingly unimportant decisions made each day, yet the result of just one of them can impact the rest of your life.
Wasting time wishing that things are different from what they are, and how much things change when looked at with older eyes.
This book opens with a terrible tragedy and those affected will use different measures to ameliorate their deep grief.
The book is narrated by those involved, many have regrets, some cannot forgive themselves and a young boy has a terrible secret.
Putting this whole book together in my mind, I realized how brilliantly constructed it was, how tightly plotted and so very well written and how rich in meaning.How our lives touch each others, how one thing leads to another, how a small offering by a stranger can be remembered and how many different ways people have of finding solace.
This book is a standout to me.
I do not recommend the audio but I do recommend this beautiful book.
Many stories built around unimaginable tragedy work to instill the reader with a sense of hope.
Perhaps this is done to offset the heavy theme or give a feeling of lifting the reader out of depression.
This one was an effortless unveiling of each person's individual truth in the aftermath of tragedy.
The ending left me feeling not so much hopeful as accepting and at peace.
4.5 stars, pending inevitable second reading.
This book kept me reading and interested, but I expected it to be so much more being that it won awards. Far too many characters to keep track of, I had to keep going back and refreshing my memory with who was who... a bit confusing..
Having finished this I now think the eroteme-free title is to be asked in the same way that you would ask someone “Did you ever have pneumonia?” Because Bill Clegg makes it abundantly clear – this family thing can be rough.
Some are third person narratives and some are straight-to-camera interviews, sort of, but of course, this being a novel by a guy who knows what fine writing is, they drift towards elegant phrase-making.
But in faded green T-shirt and worn Levi’s, this man who had come to clear branches away presented a riddle of bone and skin and eyes that left June speechless.I too was speechless after that.
To that end, Bill Clegg’s novel about a house explosion that kills three people and leaves three devastated families called to me.
I know what grief feels like, and it’s not best expressed through literary fiction.
Did You Ever Have a Family doesn’t ask you to care that these people died midsentence, with so much unsaid, unfinished; it shows you why you should.
And every time they come, they will tell those who don’t know the story of the young man who was a boy here, who went away and came home and went away, who cleaned rooms and carved a canoe and on its prow painted the faces of a family.
I think that is the author's point - we all play roles in each others' lives, maybe more than we know.Very well done.
Even if that part is coughing to death from cigarettes, or being blown up young in a house with your mother watching.
Someone down the line might need to know you got through it.
Like a kid who asks you to let him help clean motel rooms.
And it might be you never know the part you played, what it meant to someone to watch you make your way each day.
Maybe someone or something is watching us all make our way.
I really liked this story. A couple times I was tearful, a few times I was irritated but I really wanted to find out how it all was going to come together. This story has many narrators, some of which only had a chapter or two so it was a bit confusing at times. This book is an example of how life can change in an instant (as the horrible news around this world is proving). We should be sure to let people know we appreciate them and love them.
Bill Clegg's novel,  Did You Ever Have a Family , is a lot like life itself—at times it's poignant and emotional, at other times it's vague and somewhat frustrating, and at still other times you find yourself shaking your head at the wonder of it all. "I've learned that people will believe what they believe no matter what you say or do."The night before June Reid's daughter is to get married, an unexpected tragedy takes the lives of her daughter and her fiancé, as well as June's ex-husband and h
Portions of the story are narrated by Lydia, the town outcast and Luke's mother, who has secrets and regrets of her own; Silas, the teenage stoner who knows more about the tragedy than he has told anyone; the two women who own the motel where June settles in to mourn; and others with peripheral involvement in one way or another.
, but much of what is told is like participating in an archaeological dig, where an artifact (or the truth) is uncovered, little by little.This is a book of tragedy and hope, of optimism and bitterness, and one of the strength of relationships of all kinds.
magically surface in these horrible moments, knowing exactly what to do, which spaces to fill."I had this book on my radar, even had read the Amazon preview after it was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize and the National Book Award last year.
I dunno, as someone who has had more than her fair share of grief lately, it resonated with me in a way it probably wouldn't have four years ago.
magically surface in these horrible moments, knowing exactly what to do, which spaces to fill."By the way, another friend and I did a Reading Envy Podcast episode on grief, earlier in the year before I had read this.
Ok, I really wanted to like this book for the fact that so many other readers loved this book.
At first I thought it was because of the environment that I was reading this book in so I changed locations.
Then I thought it was because of my mood, so I tried to read this book when I could focus more time to this book.
Yes the tragic event that displaced June is horrible.
Yet, I could not feel sympathy for June or any of the other characters in this book.
This is the type of book that is supposed to evoke emotions from me the reader.
Still pondering and contemplating this story, need time to thoroughly process it, but the prose and the storytelling was enticing enough to force me to put on hold everything else I was reading...
As could be expected, the tone of this book is very muted and most of the characters are in some degree of shock.
I think I was the most moved by Lydia, the mother of June's dead boyfriend.
Lydia has made some of the worst decisions a mother can make and her growing awareness of this and emotional maturity moved me profoundly.It would seem that the book is a statement about how we survive the unbearable and keep ourselves connected to humanity despite every impulse to withdraw.
Her response right up until she passed on was always "One day at a time." Bill Clegg uses several characters to explore the toll a tragedy can have on many different people.
Or in the case of the bystanders, how they discuss the grieving and the lives of the deceased.
Whatever the case might be(and I've been there) there's probably nothing worse than being connected to the person that EVERYONE in your town believes bears sole responsibility for the tragedy.
It makes me wonder if perhaps Bill Clegg had difficulty writing her character.Given the emotional content that a story like this could be, I felt that less narrators would have increased my own personal response to the story.
He chronicled that spectacular crash in a memoir called “Portrait of an Addict as a Young Man,” but by the time the book arrived in 2010 Clegg had already bounded back into the upper atmosphere of New York publishing.
Now his first novel — part of a two-book deal — is the inaugural offering from a new Simon & Schuster imprint and it’s longlisted for the Man Booker Prize.The wild trajectory of Clegg’s career sounds like the stuff of fantasy, but the characters in “Did You Ever Have a Family” are living in something far more grim.
