https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8458018-the-warlock
I stopped with 120 pages left, then skimmed the last chapter* A whole bunch of flat, lifeless characters sitting around, doing shit-all and bidding their time until the final book.This was absolute, utter crap.
I counted; for 150 pages there were 15 main characters in six different locations.
This is all well and good, but this little act makes 'The Warlock' seem like a boring text book than a novel.
And I dont think Michael Scott even likes his own books any more.
Or, maybe Mars is the Warlock himself...he will definitely have a mega-giant role to play.
But because Sophie and Josh don't really have strong characters (we are only told what they're like, and there aren't many examples from their actual personalities to be believed), I suspect it doesn't really matter.Second Example of Bad Planning "[Scathach] abruptly remembered that she'd once been told that she'd die in an exotic location." Gee, that's funny.
Scott just manages to confuse his readers by continually saying what a good person Josh is while he's doing all these bad things.
Imposible no devorar cada libro. Buenísima parte de esta saga que no para de asombrarme. Estoy a un paso del final.
Loved the book. The small chapters and the movement from one group of characters to the next keep the story moving at a nice pace. I enjoyed all the revealed "info" - and several of them were quite surprising. Am anxiously awaiting the final book - to find out how everything ties together. Another great book that I enjoyed reading. I still could use a reference book as a companion to the series so that I could keep better track of all the characters, places, and monsters.Finished Reading:1st Time: Aug 10, 20112nd Time: Mar 15, 2013
Characters continually act out of character simply because the plot needs them to, and no real reason beyond the vague feelings is ever given.But what gets me the most is how these books are reading more and more like the old episodes of Batman - where the hero is left in some perilous cliffhanger that he spends 3.6 seconds escaping from at the beginning of the next episode.
I just remembered something that will easily save us within three paragraphs." I understand wanting your readers to anticipate the next chapter, but it was really overdone - to the point where I didn't anticipate anything because it had happened so many times before.SPOILER ALERTAlso, most of the book leads up to the spectacular releasing of the beasts on Alcatraz, especially the Lotan.
As the rest of the books in the series, this one was just OK, as well.
Before I begin, I want to say that if I read the line "Nicholas Flamel is dying" one more time, I won't be responsible for my actions.Now, the problem with the book, and indeed the rest of the series, is that there are just too many characters being introduced every so often.
The main flaw in the series is that NONE of the characters evoke any sort of affection.
Clearly Scott has done his research.Unfortunately, I glossed over all the Scathach bits in this book.
The fourth book took me days to read, and even then I stretched it over the course of a couple of weeks.
I felt as though nothing happened in this novel.I'll try to keep this as spoiler-free as possible...The one thing about this book is that it took place in one day.
With him is Josh, Virginia Dare, Machiavelli and Billy the Kid. There's conflict between the latter set of characters that is cool to read about, but just fluff.So there I was, reading and reading, trying not to check how many pages were ahead of me.
I read the whole book and something big is happening only now?
The one thing I have to put in writing just as proof that I actually said it.
Now, I don't know if I'm just slow on the uptake and everyone already knows, or if I'm crazy and totally shooting blind but I think Josh is the hook-handed man.
If you think I'm crazy read the series again and look for the connection.
The mans knowledge, physical appearence, and actions points towards Josh trying to make things right.It's like him doing all of this will make up the mistake he made (personally I think he is trying to get Sophie to forgive him for how he betrayed her).
I think I am falling out of love with this series, but I will say that the hook at the end of this one was great.It seems as though these books are spending more time talking about things than actually getting things done.
All the different groups are working on their own thing and then another group shows up and so on and so on.
Hopefully, the next novel in this series will tighten things up and spend a little more time on character development because there was no development to be found in this one.
Twist na kraju i interakcija izmedju Bilija i Dia je jedino sto vadi ovu knjigu. Sve ostalo je nepotrebno i cist gubitak vremena. Da sledeca kniga nije zadnja u serijalu odustao bi od daljeg citanja.Blah.
I literally still hate Josh, but I love this story. This story is just so damn cool. All the myths that interweave and the characters are such a wide range of personalities. I have no idea how this will end, already my head is spinning from the different twists and turns of the plot.
I bought The Warlock on my Kindle the day it came out and had finnished it by the next day. I can't wait for the next installment...

New law: "Books can not end in a dead-end cliff hanger, with an ending that completly shocks you and makes you want to throw the book on the ground, and then the next book comes out in a year." I know a bunch of people who would second it.
Plus, when you're reading about Sophie, and you just want to continue reading about her, it switches to Dr. Dee or something, making it sorta frustrating.
I think I'm going to have to re-read this one.
I read through it so fast, trying to get to the end.
3.5 stars!A bit repetitive. I mean, yes, I get it! You don't have to say it over and over and over again. I can retain information okay. I'm still enjoying the mythology aspect of this series tho, so 3.5 stars it is. One more book to go.
The struggle to determine the fate of humanity and the world is drawing perilously close and Josh and Sophie Newman, the gold and silver twins of legend, are standing on opposite sides.After six hundred years, it seems that Nicholas and Perenelle Flamel must surely fail.
Before his failure to capture the Newman twins and kill the Flamels made him an outlaw with his Dark Elder masters, Dr. John Dee imprisoned a collection of monsters - creatures that represent the very darkest of humanity’s fears - on Alcatraz Island in preparation for setting them loose on San Francisco and the rest of the world.
Marethyu has assembled his army of Joan, Germain, Shakespeare Palamedes and the fearsome warrior maiden Scathach and taken them back to Danu Talis.
Danu Talis is breathtaking and exciting, while the events about to occur on Alcatraz are heart stopping!
What will happen on Danu Talis?
Will Josh and Sophie learn more magic?
Many questions have been asked and numerous answers await you in this wonderful book!If you are a fan of the series The Warlock does not disappoint and if you haven't yet read the series, an amazing adventure awaits you starting with the Alchemyst!
389)Michael Scott continues to deliver.
The 5th book in ‘The Secrets of the Nicholas Flamel’ series is a study of themes surrounding the definition of friend, enemy, and traitor as the main and secondary characters gather for battle that will determine the fate of the Earth and Danu Tails shadowrealms.
Scott continue to surprise with his vast knowledge of mythologies, religions and secular histories of so many cultures.
His ability to weave so many disjoint threads so seamlessly continues to be much of the fun of the novels.
The series is a ton of fun and continues to surprise.
this entire book was LITERALLY nothing but a setup for the big finale in the next, last book! 400 pages of set up!! literally nothing happened (and if it did, it was underwhelming and undone in 50 pages or less). this series was built on so much mystery and intrugue and now that there's finally some big reveals im almost wishing they hadnt.
4.4999من عاشق اینم ک هیچ وقت گفته نشده کدوم خوبن. تک تک آدمای کتاب یه نقش منفین. حتی جش و سوفی.. اما از ی طرف هم ادم های خوبین. چون برای عقیدشون میجنگن و تا ته سرش هستن. کلاً همین مجموعه رو دوس دارم:دیفقط بگم جاش خیلی گندهو اینکه ..:دی(view spoiler)[جاش مارتیو ـه؟ یکی از دوستان گفت.. اما من شک کرده بودم.. :/ (hide spoiler)]همین دیگ.. عاقا کاش زود جلد شیشو بخرم تا قبل امتحانا تموم شههه:|
It makes sense to me, as little things gave it away as I was reading.
Still enjoying the plot, and really enjoying all the different things they can do with magic.
I like all the elders in the book, and am looking forward to reading the conclusion.
A solid 4 on this one, since it was mostly filler.9/11/17: Here are my predictions before I finish this book: (view spoiler)[1.
2. Josh and Sophie go back in time to become the original twins of legend, thus making it a self-fulfilling prophecy.
The author made it fairly obvious in the last book.
(hide spoiler)]
And, continuing the trend that the author started in Book 4, there are more separate story lines in The Warlock, which makes reading it require more concentration than usual.
That was the point where I could finally see what exactly was happening and how the various story lines connected.Many things are still left in the dark so don't expect to get answers to the mysteries that Scott has been laying out since Book 1.
This happens to be the question that run through the entire book but it is one that is not answered even until the end.
Super great book,I'm so sad the series is wrapping up. I am learning new information on every page.
The Warlock is definitely the low point of the "Secrets of the Immortal Series." I don't know why on earth Michael Scott deigned this with its own book, instead of consolidating it with The Enchantress and cutting out half the filler that's in both books.
There's a lot of Michael Scott trying waaaaay too hard to impress us.
There's a fine line between creativity and absurdity.If you've read the first foru books, then obviously you may as well finish the series, and there is a payoff in the end.
I recommend reading this series, but I can't say it was one of my favorites.
If you haven't read the 4 titles in the 'Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel' series that come prior to The Warlock, then I would advise you do!
to either aid Nicholas and Perenelle Flamel to retrieve the Codex and save the humani from certain suffering at the hands of the Dark Elders..
or to aid Dr Dee, Niccolo Machiavelli and the Dark Elders to gain the final two missing pages of the Codex and commence the Final Summoning that will see the humani enslaved to them as they regain control over the world.
Scott's The Warlock was an interesting read.
Don't misinterpret what I'm saying, I love Scott's writing and his series, but something felt missing from this specific book.
After waiting for over a year to get my hands on it, the book took me two months to read.
Regardless, I'd still recommend this book to anyone (who's read the first four books of the series) because the ending was amazing and I can't get it out of my head.
If you're interested in these books, or are considering reading them, do so.
Be prepared for some intense reveals throughout this book, and definitely have The Enchantress ready to read after you finish it, because you’re going to want to read it right away.Overall, I’ve really enjoyed the progression of The Secrets of the Immortal Nicolas Flamel.
It gets better and better as it focuses more on the twins and their lives and goes away from Nicolas Flamel himself.
It’s mostly the result of some plots falling into place while setting up for the finale, The Enchantress.
With that said, this book is highly entertaining and I loved getting to know more about various characters.
But your friend thinks it's dangerous so she tries to knock it out of your hand and lull it to sleep with her magical wooden flute?
But you triumphantly tell your friend that the creature is deaf, hahaha!
So you put the creature in the ocean and it grows like one those dehydrated spongy things on TV, and then it goes and tries to destroy San Francisco, but that's what you wanted it to do all along?
Yeah, I just summarized a whole chapter of this book.
My advice is read the first book and stop.

So this is actually my review for the series.
After reading the first book, I liked what I was reading and kept going but struggled through books 2-4 and quit with book 5 when I discovered it's not the end.
I feel like Scott has pulled an Eragon on me and like the events are just drug out to create more and more books.
Then time travel has been introduced and I'm sorry, I'm not a fan.
It seems to me like it's a way to fix things that are not fixable.
I will not be finishing the 5th book or the series.
Sorry.
