https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822912.Frankenstein_Dracula_Dr_Jekyll_And_Mr_Hyde
A single binding of Frankenstein, Dracula, and Dr.Jekyll and Mr Hyde with an introduction by Stephen King.
I have separately rated Frankenstein as four stars, Dracula as three stars, and I would rate Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde as a big time five stars.
Frankenstein is the precursor of all modern science fiction, Dracula is a cornerstone of Gothic fiction while also setting the tone for the modern vampire, and Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde is the beginning of the psychological horror tale.
The stage for modern horror is set with these three novels.2) King's introduction brings all this together and explains in wildly entertaining prose why these three novels are so important to understanding literary horror.
The Gothic mystery serves as the perfect storyline for the overarching theme of the duality of nature as scientist Henry Jekyll tries to preserve and flourish his harshness as the despicable Edward Hyde.
Stevenson uses a very basic theme of life that we all know, and twists that into a mesmerizing horror novel that achieves immortality throughout the years.
Stevenson did not write about good versus evil, but man's animal nature and his ability to control it and reform.Overall, I am very fond of this classic novel that not only tells us of the duality of nature, but also the conquer of what is right over wrong-doing.
I only read the Dracula portion of this book so that's all I'm reviewing.I liked it.
First I thought it was about going to his castle and how to escape.
Then it was about the poor girl and what was going to happen to her.
All very separate stories.But I really enjoyed it.
Except for, at times the Professor's speeches, in his made up-ish dialect got a little lengthy, verbose and dramatic for my liking.In summary, I feel better having read the classic vampire book of all time.
To really know the whole story sort of completes something in my mind somehow.
For example, early on when Frankenstein is detailing his time at medical school, where his obsession begins, through the actual creation of his monster, he ruminates constantly on what his professors think about scientific ethics, but glosses completely over the steps he took to build his creation!
Dracula wasn't the worst of the three novels, but it was the most disappointing.Dr. Jekyll And Mr. Hyde was the shortest and easily the best written of the three (there's a reason we know of more than one Robert Louis Stevenson novel, as opposed to Bram Stoker and Mary Shelley).
Perhaps the biggest problem with Dr. Jekyll And Mr. Hyde is not the fault of the novel; we know the secret.
This new character leads Mr. Utterson down a long and narrow path that eventually causes a horrific and unexpected twist ending.Reputation is an important part of this novel.
Without the desire for people to maintain or obtain a notable reputation, Dr. Jekyll would never have created his mischievous potion and the story would have no meaning.
It is safe to say that Reputation is the most significant theme of the story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
Frankenstein: A marvelous psychological and philosophical book that looks at the good and bad side of humanity and really puts the question of who is the true villain in question.
It is a true horror story in the sense of how the Count was the manifestation of evil and how he psychologically manipulated and indoctrinated fear in each character's personal life both internally and externally.
Either way, I would recommend this book to all who want a glimpse into the original horror genre as well as the psychology of human nature and how to overcome evil.
Stephen King introduction in this omnibus edition.Stephen King recommended book. In Chapter 3 of Berkley's 1983 paperback edition of Danse Macabre, King said: "The three novels I want to discuss in this chapter seem to have actually achieved that immortality, and I believe it's impossible to discuss horror in the years 1950-1980 with any real fullness of understanding unless we begin with these three books."Those three books are Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Dracula, and Frankenstein.
A hard book to rate because I liked Dracula so much (couldn't put the book down and devoured the pages) and I disliked Frankenstein so much (one of the worst "classics" written in my opinion).
Excelentísimo.
Great collection, actually 4 1/2 stars on average, but these are classic horror suspense stories not to miss
Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde was an extremly enjoyable book the mystery contained within the worn pages of this spectacular book, is a mystery that will leave you reading nonstop, leaving you with the yearning to know every detail this short, but fantastic story contained.
The letter that explains the story of Dr.Jekylls potion truly shows how mysterious the whole situation was and why even for Mr.Utterson who was a close friend had a hard time discovering the secreted of Mr.Hyde.
I truly recomend this book to anyone who has never read but has thought about reading this book because I believe You, like I did will fall into reading this novel.
I am going to experiment with reading these three novels that way and review those editions of them, and my experience with Daily Lit, when I finish.Frankenstein, by Mary ShelleySince this is considered a "groundbreaking", "classic" work for the genres of science fiction and gothic literature, I expected to embrace it.
Rating: Between one and two stars.Dracula, by Bram Stoker Bram Stoker's classic vampire tale, which like Frankenstein, is written as a series of journal entries, was a much more enjoyable read than Mary Shelley's monster story.
I finished reading Frankenstein using DailyLit, but am going to read the Kindle editions of Dracula and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hytde.
Robert Louis Stevenson’s Dr Jekyll and Mr. Hyde is a captivatingly mysterious novel set in London during the late 1800s. It tells the story of Mr. Gabriel Utterson, a town lawyer, as he investigates the mystery surrounding an old friend and colleague of his, Dr. Henry Jekyll. Utterson is alarmed to discover that Dr. Jekyll’s will had named an unfamiliar Mr. Hyde as the sole beneficiary of his estate. This raises questions that Utterson becomes determined to have answered. Upon meeting Mr. Hyde
Robert Louis Stevenson’s Dr Jekyll and Mr. Hyde is a captivatingly mysterious novel set in London during the late 1800s.
It tells the story of Mr. Gabriel Utterson, a town lawyer, as he investigates the mystery surrounding an old friend and colleague of his, Dr. Henry Jekyll.
Deserted by his friend once again, Mr. Utterson takes it upon himself to get to the bottom of his old friend’s shady ways and discovers the truth is far more bazaar than he ever could have imagined.
Robert Louis Stevenson’s Dr Jekyll and Mr. Hyde is a story that fits seamlessly into this quarter’s theme of the duality of good and evil in human nature.
evil plays a substantial role in the chilling mystery of Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde.
Jekyll created Hyde so that he had a way to separate every ounce of evil that swam within him.
The story of Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde shows readers how the interior struggles of humans are set free to duality with the hand of science.
The mystery of Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde had one particular theme that I related to: humans wanting to separate the evil from within them to try and lead a happy life.
I recommend that if readers enjoyed the mystery of Dr.Jekyll and Mr.Hyde, that they would also enjoy Frankenstein.
The plot of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde was interesting, but reading the book was not.
What I mean when I say this is the story sounded interesting when someone had told me about it before reading the story.
Not knowing the background of the twisted character may have been what I thought was missing in the story.
I suggest that if the plot of the story is known, there isn't much reason to read the story; but then again, the book isn't that long anyway.
This put life into perspective for Stevenson which gave inspiration to the story, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
“The Mysterious Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” by Robert Louis Stevenson, is about a man named Henry Jekyll who performs experiments in an attempt to separate the dual personalities of good and evil found in every human being. He wishes to give each a separate entity so that they may not conflict. Instead, he unleashes his secondary dark personality within the same body. Two men. Two polar-opposite personalities. One body. This age-old story is one that most people have heard, but simply didn’
“The Mysterious Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” by Robert Louis Stevenson, is about a man named Henry Jekyll who performs experiments in an attempt to separate the dual personalities of good and evil found in every human being.
This age-old story is one that most people have heard, but simply didn’t know the details of.The book follows the account of Mr. Utterson, a lawyer and friend of Dr. Jekyll, as he attempts to uncover the truth about the mysteries surrounding his good friend Henry Jekyll and Jekyll’s mysterious protégé Edward Hyde.
I did think it was interesting though, that in all three,at least parts of the stories were told using letters or journal entries.Frankenstien - I was expecting the Frankenstien that is portrayed in movies and such today, but it was not that.
It was a lot of build up, much more than destruction.Dracula - This was by far the longest of the three and I feel like it probably could have been shortened by about 100 pages, none the less it was easier for me to read this since it was written all in the letter/journal format.
Frankenstein, Dracula, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde / 0-451-52363-6The classic three foundational works of horror, and the inspiration for dozens if nor hundreds of movies, are packaged here together in an attractive tight package."Frankenstein" is something of a love-it-or-hate-it work and I will confess of falling on the more heretical side of that equation - there's a strong didactic feel to the work and Shelley comes off a little too hand-wringing and pearl-clutching for my taste.
The hunt is a superb one, although I am biased - Dracula is one of my favorite classics.Last, but never least, is "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde".
This was the author's, Robert Louis Stevenson's was of raising questions in the reader's mind while turning a story into a haunting tale of freak science gone wrong.
Starting out it was noticeably well written, although the story was undeniable similar to many other monster tales like Frankenstein, Dracula and even the Phantom Of The Opera in ways, (all of which contain monsters of some kind of science or deformity) but I cannot deny this was a very easy, very good read.
I would highly recommend this book, it's short, well written and leaves you haunted by it's eery tale of monsters, murder and science gone bad.
I think Stoker's Dracula is the strongest novel of the three--one with unforgettable characters, a propulsive narrative, and one where the narration and dialogue feels more natural.
Dr Jekyl and Mr Hyde, a short novella, is mostly told in third person through the perspective of Dr Jekyl's friend and lawyer, but ends with Jekyll's letter giving his own account of what led to his transformation.
That ending to me made the novel feel disjointed and abrupt, since we never get his friend's reaction to events.
Dracula I think is all the more interesting then because it uses the science of its day, from blood transfusions to telegrams, to fight the horror from a superstitious age.
Este libro nos sitúa en Europa en el siglo XVIII y nos presenta al capitán de un barco ballenero que va relatando en sus cartas a su hermana el encuentro que tuvo con el físico Victor Frankenstein que, buscando el secreto de la vida, crea un ser con partes de otros seres humanos.Lo primero que sorprende es la originalidad del tema y el hecho de que Frankenstein fuera el nombre del creador y no del mónstruo en sí.
Va mucho más allá su autora, desde el momento que el físico intenta burlar la muerte y condena a Frankestein a la soledad estamos hablando de los terrores reales y profundos de cualquier hombre si le miramos con una lupa.
These little details allowed me to see more in depth the story and abled me to see what the author wanted me to take from the novel.
This story is written in a way that is similar to watching a movie.
The writing style is so well written that I was able to read it and picture it in my head so clearly, almost as though I was watching a movie myself.
The story is written in a way that gives the reader that ultimate struggle of man vs.
Dr. Jekyll struggles internally with the idea of good vs.
The majority of the book seemed to be some Keystone Kops parody as the guys try to figure out what's afflicting Lucy.
I wanted to scream "it's a vampire, you idiots!" I was relieved when Van Helsing finally makes his appearance, but even he didn't save this book.
Stoker would've written a much better book if he shortened it by half (Stephen King could take a lesson from this, too).Frankenstein was a great book.
I expected to struggle through it because of the time period it was written.
Rather, read it as the story of a lonely child yearning for a parent's love but is spurned instead.
*REVIEW WILL BE FOR DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE ONLY!!* “It is one thing to mortify curiosity, another to conquer it." Mr. Utterson is a lawyer. A lawyer who gets instantly curious as his friend and distant relative Mr. Enfield tells him a story about a hideous looking man running over a poor little girl. Little did he know that this story will launch him into a series of mind-boggling events all revolving around one man -- his close friend: Dr. Henry Jekyll.I was actually surprised this was only 70
A lawyer who gets instantly curious as his friend and distant relative Mr. Enfield tells him a story about a hideous looking man running over a poor little girl.
Little did he know that this story will launch him into a series of mind-boggling events all revolving around one man -- his close friend: Dr. Henry Jekyll.I was actually surprised this was only 70 pages long.
I feel like there's no room to expand the story.
Did I mention it was very short?I also liked how he explored the human mind and the structure of it, and the limits of science and humanity.
Stoker and King are the only writers of vampire stuff I've read.
I'm kinda protesting...July 12, 2010...Okay, I found the book and looked up the ISBN and so now the edition's right--but without the cover, which is actually pretty good: a one-headed, three-faced Frankenstein, Dracula and Hyde, in that order, as is the order of the books.
And I haven't found how to put the book's cover as the icon in my book list.
If anyone who's reading this can tell me how to do it, please send me a message.
I actually only read the Frankenstein portion of this book.
As for Frankenstein, it was very different from what I would have guessed from the popularized portrayals I've seen in various forms of media.
I also think it's amazing that Mary Shelley wrote this when she was 19.
In the introduction Stephen King says that the writing is really bad and he's not sure why the story has stayed so popular, but I disagree with him.
I think the writing was great, and the level of vocabulary used is quite impressive for a 19 year old.
I've already reviewed each individual book in this separately on their own pages.
The collection overall is pretty good.
The Stephen King introduction is a nice touch and certainly well worth reading.
My only minor complaint with the way this is presented is that the page numbering is non-continuous, which I find slightly annoying.
Were I to want to get more in-depth with any of these novels, I'd probably reread them in an edition with more critical material, but for purposes of just reading them for enjoyment, this is a good edition.
Overall, though, I like this edition and I'm glad I decided to get it.
Frankenstein - I had read this story previously, so I skipped reading it in this book.Dracula - Finished this story on 2011Jun10.I'm don't read many novels using the epistolary structure, so that made the beginning feel a little distant and disjointed.
But once the story had gotten under way, I was pulled in and couldn't wait to sneak opportunities to keep reading this.
As a story I'd recommend this, but when you add in the influence this has had on generations of novelists, it reaches almost "must read" status.Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde - Started this story on 2011Jun13.Entertaining.
I think I enjoyed this less than Dracula, but I would put it above Frankenstein.
To think that the classic: Frankenstein was conceived by a woman, especially during her time, is fascinating.
Though if you read the underlying message of love and acceptance in a strange World, one can understand and see how a woman's touch was needed to make that story possible.
Dracula and Jekyll & Hyde are two other examples of brilliant imaginations and storytelling with an underlying message of life and it's many mysteries as well as exploration and daring to take on the unknown.
These are stories you can read again and again and you are bound to come away with a different interpretation each time.
Dracula is THE vampire story. The granddaddy of all of vampire stories! Yes, it could be a bit slow but it is essentially a tale of light versus darkness of civilized man vs baser nature, of sensuality vs proper and it delivers.A must read for anyone interested in vampire novels as well as anyone interested in the human struggle.Frankenstein is another amazing piece of writing. Another tale of primitive baser desires vs civilized thinking. Of man vs nature. The ultimate morality tale of what happens when a man plays God.Amazing.
