https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10836728-the-rook
“Yes, Minister, it turns out that there was a mysterious force that caused that plane to crash. We call it gravity.” I can't believe no one has recommended - or even mentioned - this book to me before! It's a creative, complex urban fantasy with an hilarious and likable protagonist, monsters, and an intriguing mystery.The Rook grabbed me immediately. Myfanwy Thomas awakes surrounded by bodies with no recollection of who she is or what she's doing there. All she has is a letter in her pocket; a
All she has is a letter in her pocket; a letter that begins with "The body you are wearing used to be mine." She soon finds herself caught up in this life she never asked for, trying to figure out how she lost her memory, who's out to get her, and how to manage the basics of Myfanwy's job at the secret agency known as the Checquy Group.Just so you know: there's a lot of infodump.
The background of this world and the Checquy Group are revealed through letters that the former Myfanwy Thomas wrote before she lost her memory.
This is ridiculous, she thought. I’m possessed of terrifying powers. Why am I relying on a ridiculous little gun that I picked because I thought it was cute? I don’t need this thing. She threw it contemptuously over her shoulder.There’s something foul wandering the underground tunnels beneath my office, something that’s invisible to my vaunted powers.Crap.Where’s my gun? This book is X-Men meets X-Files meets The Bourne Identity meets Johnny English. And that may sound like a clusterfuck to end
I loved it.If this book were made into a movie, I can totally see Tina Fey in the lead role.The good: - Witty, dry, humorous writing- A female assassin/secret agent not afraid to kill- A fun and interesting secret agency, think "paranormal MI5"- A well-executed amnesia premise- A racially diverse and fun suporting cast of characters- NO ROMANCE.
I can’t wear this!” Myfanwy exclaimed in horror.“You can’t wear that!” the housekeeper exclaimed.“It’s like all the material that’s supposed to be on top migrated to the bottom,” said Val.Any wedding in which this dress appeared on the bride would have to be pretty damn open-minded, thought Myfanwy.
Well, I almost peed my pants at times but I digress.Myfanwy Thomas, known as Rook Thomas, wakes up not knowing who she is.
I'm still confused as to whether Rook Thomas was before and was she after < --- only people that have read the book will know what I'm talking about.
God, I freaking loved Myfanwy and Shantay together.
Shantay came over from America when Myfanwy's group found out some stuff from this person they had captured.
The group was going to torture him and some stuff went down and freaked everyone out.
It starts rather hard-core action movie: woman coming to consciousness in a midst of a circle of bodies, no memory of self or events, dripping from the rain and blood.
At times, O'Malley is tongue-in-cheek: right as Myfanwy thinks, "I suppose I should do some more homework on how this organization actually works," the next section is from one of the letters, under the title of "How This Organization Actually Works." I actually found it rather delightful, highlighting the mental similarities in how they process information.
Tightly wound around an action core at the start, O'Malley sneaks in humor one subtle comment at a time, gradually becoming more absurd.
Highly recommended to anyone who likes a dose of humor with their surreal action-spy-mystery thriller.Four out of five stars.
but nope, all those letters from the past serve a very straightforward function: infodumps.
the high-level administrators have titles named after chess pieces!
unfortunately this novel is full of cheap snarky dialogue that comes out of nearly every character (that is when they are not sounding like The Lord and Lady of The Masterpiece Theater Manor).
and so characters end up sounding just like each other and as if they just stepped out of one of the Scream films.
this book was all kinds of fun and i read it like reading was going to be declared illegal at the end of the night!
Review initially posted at www.fantasyliterature.com.As Daniel O’Malley’s 2012 supernatural thriller The Rook (book one of THE CHECQUY FILES) begins, Myfanwy Thomas comes to herself with complete amnesia. She’s standing in a London park at night. Surrounding her is a ring of motionless bodies. They are all wearing latex gloves.Myfanwy (“rhymes with Tiffany”) finds two letters in her jacket pocket from her former self: Dear You, The body you are wearing used to be mine… I’m writing this letter fo
Having selected Option #2, she (and we) embark on reading a long series of letters from her former self, which explain Myfanwy’s past life as a high-ranking member of the Checquy, an organization of people with superpowers who help Great Britain and the world with various types of supernatural threats.
After the initial set-up there’s a lot of action in the plot… except when it’s slowed down by the ubiquitous letters from Myfanwy’s former self.
The traitors in the organization were thought out and it was a complex plot.The great parts about this book are as follows:A well-executed amnesia premiseA fun book about a supernatural secret agencyNo romance that’s forced or otherwise in the book!Cool characters that have supernatural abilities (think X-Men)The writing was well done with plenty of snark and wit thrown in the mix.The main characters were interesting and developed.The parts that I had an issue with (not many):The pacing of the book.
So, if that’s the case, maybe this won’t be an issue with me.I originally gave this 4 stars but I’m bumping it up to 4.5 stars because of the original plot!
I mean, I loved this book.
Secret societies are kind of my fave, and this book builds a GREAT one.
The secret Chequey (I love all the chess terms) battle supernatural forces in the world, and this new amnesiac is now fully immersed in it.
I definitely felt like this could be a TV show, the richness of the world is so good!
It's just FUN, like Dr. Who.The pacing of this book was the only part I can quibble with, a bit erratic at times, but the world building was rich and the characters super fun, I loved it and would like to see more in the world!
Lucky you  ☢✘✘ Fact #1 ✘✘I would have enjoyed this a lot more if it hadn't been a very pale imitation of a Tom Holt book.
✘✘ Fact #2 ✘✘I would have enjoyed this a lot more if the author hadn't tried so freaking hard to be freaking hilarious.
(hide spoiler)]✘✘ Fact #3 ✘✘I would have enjoyed this a lot more if the narrative hadn't been interrupted by Myfanwy's (don't ask) mostly pointless letters to herself (don't ask) every five freaking seconds.
But it was, so I didn't.✘✘ Fact #4 ✘✘I would have enjoyed this book a lot more if the author hadn't dedicated the first 50% of the story to glorious info-dumping.
Sale Alert: Jun Monthly Kindle Deal for $1.99You’ve woken up and are surrounded by a handful of dead people wearing gloves and have no idea who you are or how you got there.  But luckily there is a note and with this note and a few others you learn about a world you had no idea even existed. Dear You, The odds of your reading this are slim to none. Who would choose uncertainty and vaguely worded warnings over a new life of wealth and luxury? I can only assume that you were put under a massive am
Myfanwy (the W is silent) Thomas is going to pretend to be a member of a super-secret government agency that deals with supernatural and paranormal situations and disturbances.
She is going to try and figure out who tried to have her killed and why, just as soon as she figures out how to be Myfanwy Thomas.I enjoyed a very large section of the story because I found it fascinating on quite a few levels.
Not every letter ends up being pertinent to the story because how was Thomas supposed to know and sometimes I think it reads a lot like a journal of someone’s day.
I tried to like this book, I really did.
This book reads like the beloved project of the geeky high school junior who has been told by too many English teachers that he has talent and should be a WRITER.
You know how you've read books in which a character finds letters left behind, that help her figure out what's going on?
Imagine a suitcase full of letters.
Imagine an amnesiac taking the helm of a major international organization and nobody being the wiser.
Imagine high school humor masquerading as clever.
Imagine yourself reading a different book.
The format of the book alternates between the present plot & letters that explain the history of the Checquy organization & all of its current functions as a sort of paranormal police force.My only real complaint about this book is that I found the chapters comprised of letters were a bit detrimental to my engagement with the present plot line.
The letter format itself was brilliant, but I think the organization of the chapters are where things came a bit unglued for me.Sometimes the story would cut away in the middle of the action to tell the history of a particular character, only to drop you back into the thick of the conflict.
The praise this book has been getting got me interested in reading it, and within a few chapters I had to wonder if there was some massive conspiracy...To put it quite simply, the book has an intriguing premise that's destroyed by a hackneyed writing style, a juvenile approach to character, and a narrative that is grossly overshadowed by the writer's apparently high opinion of his own talents.
None of these characters develop from these descriptions into anything memorable.Setting aside the issue with characters is the issue with plot: Myfanwy goes from knowing absolutely nothing to be a confident and controlled leader of a powerful government organization?
We're told that she suddenly wants to be with friends and family, just as we're told that she becomes confident in her new role.
4.5 stars. What was THAT?! High speed, high octane..a brilliant urban fantasy of a different ilk. I was going to try and explain the story but there are so many great summaries of it already. So, just go and read this! Skilful blend of Sci Fi, urban fantasy and the paranormal, the chatty relaxed style of this book will carry you along effortlessly. And it's funny. What more do you need?
Fun.Weaving together a paranormal urban fantasy with clear references to X-Men, The Atrocity Archives, MIB, Lovecraft and Theodore Sturgeon author Daniel O’ Mallley takes us on a fun-ride concerning a secret English governmental group that has been around for centuries and protects the realm from all kinds of boogeymen.The title comes from the Chess inspired hierarchical leadership cell called “The Court”.
Along the way there is an entertaining series of misadventures, cool superhero action, and paranormal creepiness.WAY WAY too long.
Still, O’Malley mixes in enough humor and good storytelling to help us slog through the long middle stretches to a satisfying and well-crafted end.
No amount of amnesia gimmicking or clever info-dumps will disguise it for what it is, and I was saddened by the lack of underlying, grab you by the balls, tension.It did pull off a very well-done piecemeal of episodic tv-like modern fantasy, though, and I'm sure I'd have really enjoyed it if it was a prime-time CW hit, but the fact is, a 31 year old amnesiac shouldn't actually read as a YA protagonist.
But because this novel was well above the average crap that is out there, I still appreciate it for what it is, and I'll support and read its sequels to come.
Because I have a busy schedule and tend to run around a lot, I do most of my reading on an e-reader, so actually buying the physical copy of a book was out of character for me.
Yes, it's kind of like Harry Potter in that there are magic and supernatural events going on in the world, and the Checquy is the secret organization tasked with keeping those things away from the normals (insert muggles and the Ministry of Magic here).
*** 4 ***A buddy read with the Urban Fantasy enthusiast at BB&B!!!  “I’m not bipolar, I’ve just had a bipolar life foisted upon me.”  This was very surprising and a bit unusual UF read. M. Thomas is a supernatural secret agent for a Paranormal agency in the British government. She wakes up and has no memory of who she is and what is her life. Luckily, once she puts her hands in her pockets, she finds letters obviously addressed to her. Every letter gives her a clue and she mostly blindly stu
Every letter gives her a clue and she mostly blindly stumbles into a life and job which have expectations of her and know who she is much better than she does...
Those who work within the Checquy can accomplish what no one else can, and so they are the secret arm of the kingdom.”This book was well written and in places utterly hilarious, but the format with the letters providing information and supplementing memory for Rook Thomas, was a bit heavy on the information dumps and tended to slow the story down at some frustrating intervals....
I wish you all happy reading and may every book enrich your life!!!
How agreeable this was. It was all Ghost Busters + Men in Black + Austin Powers. I'm trying to think if I want to do a list/ recommendation/ thing with actual content, but really, it is just this: how diverting this is. How amusing. How entertaining.
She soon learns that someone in the Checquy had betrayed her, and in order to find out who it is she must reintegrate herself in the organization and hope that no one would suspect her memory loss while also hiding the fact she knows more than she lets on as not to alert the traitor.As I said, amnesia stories can either work really well for me or they can fall flat on their face, and happily this was a case of the former.
This is exactly the situation facing the new consciousness inhabiting the body of Myfanwy Thomas at the beginning of The Rook.
Myfanwy learns that, prior to the betrayal that led to her subsequent amnesia, she was a Rook, a high ranking agent of the Chequy, a secret organization of superpowered individuals charged with protecting the British Isles from supernatural threats.
The new Myfanwy must uncover a traitor in their midst if she's to learn who took her memory and why.Holy shit, has it been a long time since I picked up a book with such a kick ass beginning!
Latex gloves...They're not just for proctologists anymore. This was a promising plot idea from a decent writer who got carried away by his own cleverness. He lost me after about 100 pages.
Loved this! A bit of Jasper Fforde, a bit of X-Files, and a lot of droll action and tongue-in-cheek dialogue as we follow the heroine, Myfanwy Thomas, through her adventures. Thoroughly enjoyable, and highly recommended.
Her predecessor in body, a chief administrator of the Supernatural spy service, has left her detailed notebooks filled with bios of the main characters and information about her life and the world she now lives in.When she awakes in a field surrounded by unknown dead people, she must fool her closest allies and enemies into thinking she is still the Myfawany that they have known all their lives.
Her fellow Lords are otherworldly in every way.The other Rook is a multibody being controlled by one mind, who is able to control each body separately.
The first one we never officially meet: she exists in the letters (a suitcase full) that she writes to the second Myfanwy-- the one who wakes up with two black eyes and her memory scrubbed.
The idea of having Myfawny write letters to herself is a clever device that neatly side-steppes the common predictability of a story centered around an amnesiac.
Myfawny has the information she needs at hand-- If only she can read the letters fast enough.But there is so much more to "The Rook" than someone trying to shake loose some lost memories.
I kept running across reviews of it, none of which quite conveyed the level of humor deployed; since I am hungry for humor at present, this hit the spot, despite its occasional dark or gross-out nature.
(Also its occasionally slyly witty nature, enough to periodically reward me for going on to the next bit.
Good banter values when people get stroppy.) But the book's principal reward is its rather charming, if extremely beleaguered, main character.
(view spoiler)[The amnesia, the contingency plans, the diplomatic shuffle, the men-in-black/x-files/x-men bureaucracy, the whole thing.
All those letters don't bother me anymore.* * * * *Rereading to prepare for Stiletto and going with the audiobook again this time because these days setting aside time to read is a luxury I no longer have.* * * * *3½ stars, rounded up for the sense of humor and that extra helping of zaniness.There were moments in the story that felt like they dragged on for a few pages too long (the letters), but I'm having difficulty recalling them.
I'm going to use the guns as paperweights.”“I've always been a pretty good researcher,” said Bronwyn modestly.Oh, so that we share, thought Myfanwy, but you didn't inherit the power to make people shit themselves.
Mini review:DNFThis book was recommended to my by  Celeste !
Click on her name to read her review!
When Celeste had mentioned that The Rook was a good spy series I was sold!
That synopsis sounded so good!
Unfortunately I lost interest.The first time I tried reading it I thought I didn't like it because I was already tired and that was why I was falling asleep.
When I read it for the second time (wide awake this time) I found that I just didn't care about the mystery anymore.
Yes I do recommend this!
Just look at that synopsis.
I absolutely loved this book (and have already ordered the next in the series). Will talk more about it on this week's episode of Sword and Laser!
Myfanwy makes for an appealing main character and it’s fun to watch her navigate her life...which comes full of the strange and the bizarre...even as she learns more about the personality that inhabited her body before her.
Myfanwy’s development comes as a result of the amnesia gimmick but, given that it works for the story’s purposes, I can accept it.
I would have let this slide and been happy to wait for the second book to get this deeper dive into characterization BUT it seems that the second book focuses on two entirely new characters, with Myfanwy making only the sporadic appearance.
