https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1078.The_Good_Earth
Read the reviews and you'll see one word come up over and over again: "portrait." Says one reviewer, "In addition to lovely, rich writing, the novel provided much-needed Chinese history, class and culture lessons." Am I the only person whose hackles go up when someone refers refers to a novel like a textbook?
Yet for some reason, for a lot of people The Good Earth is *it*, the one lesson in Chinese culture and history that they will read in their lives.
And as much as I'd like to think that I am familiar with the Chinese culture, I have to admit that my knowledge about that is limited and my views about them a bit stereotypical.
This book made me fall in love with China, the Chinese culture, my Chinese roots.“And roots, if they are to bear fruits, must be kept well in the soil of the land.” The beauty of this sweeping tale can be understood by hearing its voice, its message.
Each man, woman, son, daughter thinking about their self, their success apart from the land.

THIS BOOK IS ABOUT THE EARTH AND IT IS GOOD.
شخص بلا أرض، شخص بلا جذورمن الروايات التى شعرت بكم هائل من المشاعر و انا أقرأها، بداية من التعاطف مع
The Good Earth is packed with cautionary tales of wealth and idleness, tradition and progression, and lust.
Just things I noticed:- The very thing Wang Lung detested, O-lan's unbound feet, actually helped him produce his wealth because she could help him with the land, and do all of the labor in the house.
There was very rarely ever 'peace' in Wang Lung's house from the time he became rich to the end of the book.
And in the times of peace, we see that Wang Lung blatantly ignored the problems and troubles in his house.
O-Lan is a dream client for an HMO.) Together their family will go through bad times including droughts and famine, but O-Lan’s steady nature and Wang Lung’s farming skills eventually bring them prosperity.The one thing that sets Wang Lung apart from other farmers is his constant desire to acquire new land.
I think it must be universal that farmers everywhere like to gather and shoot the shit whether it’s at a Chinese tea house or a diner in Kansas.And when a successful Wang Lung experiences a mid-life crisis and falls for a younger woman, you realize that it’s no different from any modern guy divorcing the wife who stood by him for years.
The House of Hwang, a family of wealthy landowners, lives in the nearby town, where Wang Lung's future wife, O-Lan, lives as a slave.
Meanwhile, Wang Lung, through his own hard work and the skill of his wife, O-Lan, slowly earns enough money to buy land from the Hwang family, piece by piece.
Wang Lung uses this money to bring the family home, buy a new ox and farm tools, and hire servants to work the land for him.
When he discovers the jewels O-Lan looted from the house in the southern city, Wang Lung buys the House of Hwang's remaining land.
Wang Lung on his wedding day gets up at dawn as usual, a poor Chinese farmer's son, who lives with his widowed old father, but is a very hardworking, strong, and ambitious young man, they occupy, a three room house made of dirt bricks, with a straw thatched roof.
O-Lan is also hard working, a fine cook, always taking care of the house, the old man , in the fields with her husband, giving birth alone, to many sons (daughters also), and then the same day going back to help with the plowing.
I found this to be an incredibly moving and humanistic story, full of anger, tragedy, joy, and the elements that make for a great novel.
It's a story any person in any country can relate to.
The writing is beautiful and reads like a parable more than straight documentation or history, which was her intent, and a tribute to many of the old Chinese tales I've read (now reading it at an older age, I see a lot of references and tributes to other Chinese works I had not known of before).
I've heard much about it, mostly about a moment in the story when a woman gives birth and then goes back to work in the fields the same day, and have wanted to read it for quite some time.I think it's always intimidating to read a classic.
She's the kind of woman that made me feel like a slacker for sitting around reading a book.
The rise and fall of the House of Hwang, where O-Lan was a slave, parallels Wang Lung's own story.
I read some of the original reviews which led to the Pulitzer Award, and most of them focus on the groundbreaking honest look into China.
That's what 4 star ratings are for; besides, there has to be a way to acknowledge a book that is an all-time favorite and give it the respect it deserves for being so special.
Whether you love or hate this novel (some people feel very strongly about it either way), you can't deny that the author has major talent.She writes with such descriptive fluidity, and maintains a current of understated humility, where she doesn't let herself get in the way of the story.
I just wanted to use this review to say how much I love her writing ability, and can't wait to read the other 2 books in the trilogy.
ملحمة روائية رائعة ذكرتنى برواية عبدالرحمن الشرقاوى " الأرض "و كأن معاناة الفلاح واحدة فى كل مكانرائعة و تستحق القراءة
I found the book difficult to read emotionally, but knew all the while that it was brilliant.
It was sad to see how Wang Lung's obsession with land ruined his potential for happiness.
And it seemed that with more money came more difficult problems.
I guess I should have realized this was a problem for him when he chose to use his meagre earnings to buy more land than save to feed his little family.I really despised Wang Lung, while I loved O-lan.
But I feel that this is definitely a book worth reading, although it was hard.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، نویسندهٔ این کتاب <پرل بک>، دورانِ کودکی خویش را در چین گذراند و در همانجا نیز درس خواند.. او عاشقِ سرزمینِ چین است و چین را قلب و روحِ خود میداند... وی توانست فرهنگ و زندگیِ مردمانِ چین را به آمریکاییان و اروپائیان شناسانده و با داستانهایش فرهنگهای این مردمان را به یکدیگر پیوند بزند و در این راه جایزهٔ نوبل را نیز کسب نمود--------------------------------------------در این داستان، <وانگ لونگ> دهقانی است که خود را از زمین میداند و تمامِ زندگی خویش را فدایِ زمین کرده ا
ولی فرزندانش همچون پدرشان نسبت به زمین عشق و تعصب نداشته و تصمیم میگیرند تا زمینها را به فروش برسانند****************‎شمارهٔ بعدیِ این رمان، با عنوانِ "پسران خاندانِ وانگ" از آنجایی آغاز میشود که پسرانِ این خانواده: وانگِ بزرگ، وانگ دوم و وانگ سوم یا همان ببر، زمینها را بین یکدیگر تقسیم کرده و داستان به زندگی آنها و نواده هایِ وانگ لونگ، میپردازد--------------------------------------------‎امیدوارم این ریویو در جهتِ شناختِ این کتاب، کافی و مفید بوده باشه‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
She is a brilliant feminist writer!Through her character O-lan, Buck makes the argument that all of man's (in the story Wang-lung)increase and prosperity comes because of his reliance on the "good earth", which refers not only to his land but also to his good woman.
Without his woman he would have had none of the prosperity he enjoys!
So many women bring forth fruit, raise it and cultivate it, in silence.
They are trampled on, destroyed and unappreciated.Life would cease to exist without the earth, just as life would cease to exist without women.
In the beginning, Wang Lung's character seems so simple and kinda static, albeit respectable.
But as the novel progresses, his character becomes more and more complex, more and more human.
I think that feeling is the result of the peek Buck gives us into Wang Lung's mind during difficult decisions.I think we all wanted to get more of O-lan.
Obviously we all sympathize with her and, despite her unlikeability to pretty much everyone in the novel, she is extremely likeable and respectable to us as modern western readers.
رغم الطول النسبي للرواية، لكني لم أستطع أن أتركها إلا بعد الأنتهاء منهارائعة و تستحق الخمس نجوم
At one level this book contains the story of a hard working farmer (i.e. peasant) in old agrarian China who together with his wife survives famines and floods and manages to raise a family, expand his land holdings, and in the end become a rich man.
Buck is the story of Wang Lung, a farmer and peasant who marries one of the slaves of a wealthy house.
Ironically, Wang Lung himself participates in thievery from a rich man's house at a later time in the story.
Water would never be wasted on such an unnecessary thing as bathing.O-Lan is also hard working, taking care of the house and Wang Lung's father, cooking meals, working the fields with her husband, giving birth alone, then going back to plowing the fields the same day, never complaining.“....
What started out as an arranged marriage, for the sole purposes of doing chores and bearing children, develops into a relationship where Wang Lung feels deep respect and actually falls in love with O-Lan.This is an incredibly atmospheric book which transports you directly to late 19th century China and into the lives of this peasant family.
من الكتب التي يبقى اثرها طويلاً في الذهن و الروح بعد الانتهاء من قراءتها، و رغم طول الرواية إلا أني لم أشعر بالملل أطلاقاً في أي جزء منهارائعة و تستحق الخمس نجوم
Though she is American, Pearl Buck maintains an objective stance regarding Chinese cultural practices from the time, including foot-binding and the enslavement of women.
Yet one encounters the unspoken torment of countless generations of women.
In Chinese society, she knows that she is "too ugly to be loved," and her husband seems to love Lotus, the live-in waif-prostitute, more than her-- despite her thankless contributions to the family's health and home.
As in all great novels, the setting of jade-green rice fields and gilded wheat becomes a living character with its own destiny and course--at times cruel; other times, benevolent.
من الروايات القليلة التي تترك اثراً في نفس القارئ من الصعب أن ينسى، و رغم النهاية الحزينة للرواية إلا أنها نهاية واقعية جداً أضافت مزيد من الثراء إلى العمل
In one quick step, they know China, like Neo in The Matrix knows Kung Fu. Since its publication, the book has regularly been assigned in high schools as much for its alleged window into Chinese culture as for its literary value.”This raises the issue of whether a novel or work of fiction can ever be a guide or compendium of a country’s culture.
The book was published in 1931 and the time period covered probably ends in the thirties, when the central character Wang Lung is in his 70s.
For me, the story reads as an allegorical tale about the ups and downs of life.
The traditions and customs of China are beautifully drawn - clothing and food, marriages and birth and death, yearly celebrations, sexual discrimination.
Customs are drawn so you see how the Chinese people feel about their own traditions.
Time to shed a tear before the story continues.
The story itself isn't exceptional, but how it is told is.
Pearl S Buck lived in China on several occasions and thus her story of Wang Lung feels real.
The book is a sort of bildungsroman in which we see the life of Wang Lung from his mariage to the young slave O-Lan to his success and passing on of his legacy to his snickering sons.
There is plenty of drama here and there are times that you want to slap Wang Lung for being an ass, but the story is very entertaining and one can easily see the talent of Buck in her writing.
Aunque me ha gustado mucho 'La buena tierra', he sufrido más que disfrutado con su lectura. Los personajes que aparecen en este libro son (practicamente todos) odiosos, mezquinos, crueles y egoístas, por lo que pasé casi toda la lectura enfadada.A pesar de todo, es un libro que se ha quedado conmigo, esta autora tiene una manera muy sencilla de narrar pero que consigue que te lleguen sus palabras... Será difícil olvidar esa descripción de la pobreza más extrema, de la ingnoracia, la situación de la mujer como esclavas y la penosa vida de los campesinos...
We follow a poor farmer, Wang Lung, as he is steered by his elderly father to buy a slave for a wife, O-Lan. She is a quiet saint and applies her hard work to help them make a success of their farm and delivery several children by herself.
Hard times from drought leads Wang to take his growing family to a large city to avoid starvation.
That drive helps them sustain the economic hardships from floods, but his growing wealth begins to corrupt him and lead him to neglect his loyal wife in favor of a prostitute.
"Ah sì, ho sentito parlare di una rivoluzione, ma sono sempre stato troppo occupato in vita mia per farci caso.
C'era sempre la terra".Queste parole di Wang Lung possono riassumere il romanzo.
Il legame strettissimo, materno, con la terra da quando si nasce fino alla morte rappresenta il filo conduttore delle vicende dell'esistenza del contadino Wang Lung e della sua famiglia.
La storia prende il via dal matrimonio di Wang Lung con la schiava O Lan e trascorre poi narrando, con scrittura piana e scorrevole, le alterne vicende della famiglia.
Il sottofondo storico è indefinito, a parte questo riferimento alla rivoluzione che fa pensare all'ambientazione ai primi del Novecento.
But I downloaded the audio version, read by Anthony Heald, and listened to the book while doing some much needed organizational stuff, and it was surprisingly good.
But even if none of the cultural references are accurate, this was still an engaging and interesting story full of very human characters.
I think that my favorite character in the story was O-lan.
We never really get to know her fully, seeing things through Wang Lung's eyes, and he's not particularly perceptive when it comes to O-lan, or kind when he is, but I loved her.
