https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472193.Darkness_at_Pemberley
to me, right around 3.7Not to be at all confused with P.D. James' Death Comes to Pemberley, White's novel takes place over a century later than Austen's original and opens with a sort of locked-room puzzle.
The nature of justice is at its heart, as is the fact that readers are left thinking about exactly what kind of people we're dealing with here as the main players come up with their own plans as to how to set things right.
From the author of the better-known five-volume saga The Once and Future King comes this early novel, a unique take on the country house murder mystery.
Following the murders of three people at Oxford University, the perpetrator confesses to a police inspector early in the story.
The mystery becomes not a question of “who-dun-it?” but rather of “where is he and how will we find him before he does it again?”With the novel being set at Pemberley (the country house of Jane Austen fame) with the only female main character named Miss Darcy, the reader might expect an early Austen fandom story.
I discovered this title while rereading White's glorious "Once and Future King." By comparison, mystery-writing isn't his strong point.
The fact that "Darkness at Pemberley" isn't REALLY a Jane Austen spin-off ordinarily would recommend it to me (as I detest Austen spin-offs)but plot is awfully contrived, and there are holes in it.That said, there's also at least one plot twist that caught me totally offguard and spun my head around!
And White's writing here, as in "Once and Future King" shows a real affection for his characters.
[and] averaged 50 miles per hour exactly."My favorite that-was-then quote came when (WARNING, POSSIBLE SPOILER) the villain Strikes Again, dispatching an elderly character.
Decent little read.My primary difficulty with the book is that we have two very different things going on even though it's all one story.
Mr. Beedon, a don of St. Barnabas, has been found shot to death in his locked room.
And...barely half-way through the book, we find out he's right and who the murderer is.
Buller will be in danger of being roasted alive before the murderer finally gets his due.
Plenty of adventure and excitement--and, of course, a rather sweet little romance between Buller and the female Darcy heir.The locked room murder is a decent little mystery with a rather clever method of misdirection.
A few months later, Buller visits his friend Charles Darcy at Pemberly.
Yes, they are of the lineage of the original Fitzwilliam Darcy and Elizabeth Bennet from Jane Austen, and it's allegedly the same Pemberly.
So, the guy laughs at Charles and tells him to watch his own back.
Then for much of the rest of the book, the murderer haunts Pemberly by living inside the chimney-flue system and sneaking into people's rooms at night, leaving frivolous, but tangible evidence of his sneaking, so as to scare them, and have a bit of fun for himself.
very good, well written. Ingenious villain. Quite enjoyable
He figures out the perplexing locked-room mystery in fewer than 90 pages and gets a confession out of the murderer – who, unfortunately, has an unbreakable alibi.By page 93, Buller has resigned from the police in disgust over his inability to bring the murderer to justice, and is spending time at Pemberley with this friends Sir Charles Darcy and Miss Darcy (Austen lovers : insert groan here).
Enter a mad scientist with a novel poison gas that is sure to fumigate the house of murderers.
Still, it is an interesting, quick read for lovers of the classic British mystery.
Who knew T. H. White had undertaken a sequel to Pride & Prejudice? Well done, too.
However any seasoned classical crime reader will detect early on in the book that the author has absolutely no experience or idea about crime novels and hasn't or cannot cross the border from writing about a make believe world to the world of crime where things have to be at least plausible.
This then gets even sillier as Buller ropes in a Doctor and a Scientific friend who are all happy to commit murder and gas the maniac and/or shot him whichever is easiest and write a death certificate.
The writing puts this a notch above many other mystery/detective stories of the same period, even though the plot is a little uneven.
The two halves of the story nearly fit together perfectly, and it is quite satisfying in a way to discover after a few chapters that the first two murders are not going to be the main focus of the story.
Your period's about 1850.
I'm going to stay here and see the fun.
"Mr Beedon, the history don whose rooms were on a staircase" p 8 was found "sitting in his favourite chair, stone cold, with a bullet through his head" p 17 by "Mrs Grigg, the senior bedder ..
First Buller solves a locked room style mystery.
(view spoiler)[Suicide ending.
(hide spoiler)]Part II puts Inspector Buller in a country estate.
Now the "tiny light of insanity" p 108 marks the villain -- "wicked" p 109, against the "beautiful" Elizabeth p 110 and Buller -- now a chase, hide, kidnap, romance, different flavor story.
(hide spoiler)]Humor makes the romance light.
Hard to get into and the style is different, but an OK book.
(If you've read those stories, you know what I mean; if you haven't ...
lol)Darkness is a fun read, the action only rarely slips and the writing delivers some real goosebumps.
The romance, while enjoyable and not overdone, is unsatisfying, especially at the end, as the stated problems are too easily overcome, and the whole thing is wrapped up with a jolt.
The book has nothing whatsoever to do with Jane Austen, and I can see no reason why the story occurs at an imaginary place she made famous with her writing.
Was White perhaps inspired to write this book after reading Pride and Prejudice?
H. White novel starts out as a police procedural concerning a double murder set in Cambridge University and quickly metamorphoses into something completely different.
Buller, the detective, quickly rules out the many suspects and confronts one chemistry professor, Maleverer (love the name), who takes Buller for a walk and explains the convoluted mechanics of how he committed both murders and further explains that Buller will never be able to prove it.
The rest of the book concerns Maleverer trying to bump off everyone and his brother at Pemberley.
I enjoyed this book for these reasons: the mystery didn't go the way of the standard mystery- it was explained within the first few chapters!
The characters made mistakes.
I give credit when characters make honest mistakes- I hate when they simply are stupid to advance the plot.
There's also the bad guy and his never ending lectures explaining his evil genius, but I forgave the author.Excellent reading, and I let my 12 yr old daughter read it.
She enjoyed it and made sure we were going to keep it.
A little known detective story by the author of "The Once and Future King" and "The Book of Merlyn." Starting off with a closed room mystery Inspector Buller is soon confronted with two other superstitious deaths at a prestigious college.
The story moves to the estate where two of his friends live.
The killer determines to kill Sir Charles and endangers the life of Detective Buller's one true love.
Sir Charles and Inspector Buller must wrestle with their conscious.
Could they kill the man if it's the only way Sir Charles and his sister will be safe?
An odd little book, though enjoyable, from T.H. White, before he became face for The Once and Future King.
It seems when he was starting out, he was a bit of a mystery fiend and this book was his attempt at a psychological mystery; his villain is truly twisted and creepy and the other characters are slightly touched psychologically as well; and a locked room mystery.
Not a great book but it has some real nice touches and shows some of the literary chops that his other works demonstrate in spades.
I picked up this book second-hand because I'm a Jane Austen fan.
However, the connection is quite tenuous - about 2/3 of the book does take place at Pemberley, but it is set in the 1920s, and Darcy is perhaps the famous couple's grandson or great-grandson.
The first part is a conventional police procedural with the exception that the murderer is discovered, but he has an airtight alibi, and so cannot be arrested.
The second part moves to Pemberley, where it becomes a thriller.
And I didn't see the advantage in making the Pemberley connection.
Darkness At Pemberly is billed as a mystery story, but in truth it's more of a suspense story of the sort that Geoffrey Household was so good at. The house at Pemberley is under siege by a murdering lunatic; he's decided that Charles, the owner, must go. The only man who knows his secret is the former detective Buller, and he's determined to keep his friend Charles safe.Very exciting book, though without the plot twists you would expect from Christie or Sayers or some of the other Golden Age writers.
This is really interesting as an example of White's early writing and 1930s murder mysteries generally. There are so many disappointed/angry reviews that I feel like it should be noted that the Pride and Prejudice connection is pretty much just an Easter egg—it's clearly indicated to be that Pemberley and the descendants of those Darcys, but over a century later, after all. The ghost of Fitzwilliam Darcy does not appear and start slighting anyone's mother or anything.
OK, it's just barely a Jane Austen spin-off, in that it sets itself in the fictitious Pemberley far in the future for a good part of the book. It really is a mystery, and it's not too poorly done. I liked Investigator Buller as a character, but I'm still not certain the whole locked room mysteries really grabs me. Anyway, it was all right. I think there's a reason this book went into obscurity compared to his later works, though.
A different take on a murder mystery. The murderer is identified right away but the inspector doesn't have the evidence to accuse him. Features the descendents of Darcy and Elizabeth from Pride and Prejudice but more as an inside joke than in reverence to Austen. Also features a surprisingly convincing (for White) love story. It's understated but with enough humour to make it realistic.
This isn't White's best work, but it's entertaining and worth reading for his mildly parodic portrayal of Englishness. And for Elizabeth, who admonishes Buller (and maybe by extension the author), "My dear man, where on earth do you get your ideas about women from? Your period's about 1850."
Is this title not the best thing to say? With an ellipsis between "Darkness" and "at?"Standard 30's British mystery; lots of fun.
An odd little story, but a pleasant enough read as it seems written in an intentionally lighthearted vein. I would have missed the connection to Pride and Prejudice w/out goodreads reviews!
Uncomfortably dark. The bad guy is really bad.
Has not aged well.
A very enjoyable, fast-paced read. Starts off as a classic "locked room" murder and then turns into a Boy's Own ripping yarn. I couldn't put it down once I had started reading.
