https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/410009.Owl_at_Home
But for me, the best Lobel book will always be Owl At Home.1.) The first story, THE GUEST, is about the time Owl heard a banging and pounding on the door.Owl was just trying to sit in front of the fire and eat his buttered toast and hot pea soup when he hears someone knocking on the door.http://thebookmamablog.files.wordpres...It is winter.
The little ones will be reading this book, and then when they are teenagers looking for a scary movie they will pop in THE GRUDGE or maybe JU-ON and the will get the shit scared out of them and they will remember this little story.http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_jx-pZVKELPA..."What if those two strange bumps grow bigger and bigger while I am asleep?" said Owl."That would not be pleasant."No, it would not be pleasant.
That candle is the only thing keeping our poor Owl from plunging into the darkness of his paranoid solitude.I don't know why I find this so amusing (and seriously, it's one of the funniest books to read to your kids), but each of the five stories in this collection shows our protagonist suffering some level of dementia.
All of these stories find Owl completely alone, usually just trying to find comfort in the solitude of his little house, and usually, he fails.
I never actually ended up putting it in the post.Owl's Tear-water Tea was (and is) my favourite story in the book.
“Tonight I will make tear-water tea,” he said.
“Books that cannot be read,” said Owl, “because some of the pages have been torn out.”“Clocks that have stopped,” said Owl, “with no one near to wind them up.”Owl was crying.
Many large tears dropped into the kettle.
He cried and cried.Soon the kettle was all filled up with tears.“There,” said Owl.
He put the kettle on the stove to boil for tea.
My husband was just putting my son back into bed and telling him there are no owls when he heard, "Whooooo.
Molly jumped up to the window, tapped on the glass with her paw, and the owl flew away.The other day, I took my son to the bookstore and let him pick out any book he wanted.
He picked out Owl At Home, so we bought it and took it home and read it.
Owl At Home is a very likable owl, as likable, in fact, as Frog and Toad.
He just doesn't get the same attention that Frog and Toad do.
My second grade son struggles with reading, yet he loves Lobel's books.
I appreciate that the language and phrasing are simple enough for him to read with confidence, but at the same time the books are not boring.
Most books that are written on a low enough level for him to read are horribly insipid and dull, but Lobel's books always make me smile.
I have a special fondness for these books as well, not just because my son actually willingly reads them, but because I recall them from my own childhood - some of these stories really stuck with me.
This is honestly one of my favourite books.It has been since I first learned to read.It still makes me wish and think and laugh and cry.Such a short book and a quick read but it makes me remember......to be silly....to be sweet....to be kind.It is a template for who I am and how I will always be.It is my "Goodbye Moon" ; especially at the end.
"Owl at Home" is strikingly beautiful children's literature. A perfect combination of melancholy and humor. I haven't seen another children's author deal with the theme of loneliness the way Lobel can. (See also, the Frog and Toad story "Alone.") My three year old girl loves Owl. (The first two stories are just slightly too scary for her, but she let me read all the way through them the first time.)
Oh silly little Owl! I particularly loved Tear-Water Tea, in which Owl makes himself cry into his tea kettle by thinking of sad things like "Mornings nobody saw because everybody was sleeping." <3 <3 <3
What a silly little cinnamon roll
This is the story of an owl who lives alone and has adventures that mostly happen in his own house. Basically it's the story of my life, right down to the part where he makes himself cry by imagining all kinds of sad things, then has some tea. Was Lobel lurking outside my window? Because that's pretty much my average evening. Jokes aside, this book is DELIGHTFUL. I would recommend it to any kid or adult, especially those who understand that the best adventures happen at home while wearing comfortable pajamas.
More wonderful stories from Lobel.My favorite of these was when Owl couldn't decide whether to stay upstairs or downstairs, and finally found a clever solution. I also remember Owl's tear-drop tea, especially because I cried along with Owl for those poor pencil stumps that are too short to use and those poor lost spoons no one ever finds and those beautiful sunrises no one will ever see. I was a very sentimental child.But besides all that, it's always delightful to read about your own species ;)
owl has a sweet little home, he invites winter in but sadly winter is not the best guest...strange b
Oh gosh. How have I never read this yet? I mean, welcoming winter and being scared of the two bumps near the bottom of your bed are bemusing enough, and I don't know if Lobel or Frank Asch did the moon as friend & follower better, and upstairs/ downstairs is classic... but, erm, "Tearwater Tea?!" Wtf? Deep, man.
I love Arnold Lobel's children's books. The writing is always good and the pictures are delightful. This one is good, but ranks below Grasshopper and the Frog and Toad books for me, possibly because owl appears be a lunatic.
Poor, sweet Owl.
Text-to-Teaching ConnectionOwl at Home by Arnold Lobel is an adventurous book that has five chapters.
Throughout the five chapters of the book, Owl has several adventures in his two leveled house.
I would use this book in the classroom during Language Art in 3 different ways.
First students will do a character analysis sheet in the first chapter.
Next, Students will then read the rest of the book.
then i will have them write and illustrated a story about the rest of the 4 chapters.
Finally, during share reading time I will tell students to get creative and act out the story.
Yup. And the stories would be great fun for a kid.But if you look at what actually happens in the story, and you look into owl's intense, unblinking eyes, you see here almost a Baby's First Lovecraft- each being a spooky tale of madness and mystery.In the first tale, The Guest, Owl, spurred on only by some banging outside, hurls open his door and invites Winter in.
I could see children yelling at this story "THEY'RE JUST YOUR FEET!" or something of the sort, but I can also imagine a child having similar irrational fears about their own bodies- I had a cousin who was afraid to poop when he was 2 because he didn't wanna lose his guts, so you never know with kids.
He is the sort of children's book protagonist who is at once an adult and a child.
He has a naive understanding of the world and works through problems in a way that lets children intuit the solution even as Owl fails to learn the lesson.
He is scared of his own feet under the covers, tries to discover if he can be upstairs and downstairs at the same time, and brews himself tea from his own tears after thinking of all the sad things he can.
Owl lives in a world where he thinks and learns for himself.
I came across this book while shopping for presents for my nephew, and although i think he is still a little young for it (he's only 3), I couldn't resist getting it for him anyway.
I think it'd probably be better for children about 5 or 6 though.It's actually 5 little stories in one book, all of them about an eccentric owl who sees the world in a slightly different way than most people.
It's really a sweet book, and in a way kind of sad too.
I have to admit, I was thinking of buying a copy for myself (nothing wrong with having some children's books around the house!)
Picked this up at a yard sale this summer with a bunch of other children's books.
I never read it as a child but owls have always appealed to me and when I saw this guy on the cover with a book and PJs I was sold!I was amazed at how simple and adorable the stories were but they were quite dark as well.
Each story touched on struggles that many adults have--the grass is always greener, and being overwhelmed thinking sad thoughts to name a few.But owl always seems to begin each story with a smile on his face :)
Purchased as a gift. I was given this thirty years ago and have read it to children from three years old to sixteen. Beautiful stories with a wonderfully amusing (yet also in some ways very sad) Owl in his home. I particularly love 'Tear Water Tea' and of course the fabulous 'Strange Bumps'I also have a copy of the same author's book 'Frog and Toad'. Again, a wonderful book.
Un libro muy tierno, con un personaje único, inocente y memorable que invita al invierno a entrar en su casa para que no pase frío, que está asustado por esos bultos extraños en su cama que se mueven al mismo tiempo que sus pies, que hace té de lágrimas y que se volvió el mejor amigo de la luna. Definitivamente, Lobel nunca decepciona.
2018 review: everybody thought this was great, and though silly, hilariously so. Found it at a book sale for a dime!2014 three star review: We didn't like this one as much as Lobel's Frog and Toad stories. This was irritatingly silly.
Captivating tales to be read again and again! They have valuable, life long lessons. I think about them on many occasions, and I'd recommend this book to anyone. I'd really like to read it again, but thanks to my brothers, the pages are scattered to the four winds.
Melancholy and memorable, this is a keeper.
Notes:mixed feelings on this one -- felt like a lot of adult issues packaged up in a kids' storybook; I liked it but felt a bit icky about reading it to my little ones
The story about the "lumps" in Owl's bed that moved when he moved? Scared the shit out of me.
Arnold Lobel is the undisputed master of books like Owl at Home.
In Strange Bumps, Owl is tucked in bed one night when he notices two odd little lumps protruding under the blankets at the end of his bed.
Ultimately, this is the beauty of Arnold Lobel's stories: We Toads will eventually find our Frogs, and vice versa, if we hold onto hope and keep looking, and even an owl living in solitude has a unique friend out there waiting to be met.
I love Owl at Home as an adult, and I loved reading it to my kids.
Mostly, I love that Lobel knew that children are natural-born philosophers, and often wrote to that inclination in them.
This is probably my favorite of his books; it's similar to Mouse Soup in being a collection of quirky and silly-but-thought-provoking stories suitable for bed time.
Owl at Home lacks the framing story that puts Mouse Soup on the same shelf with The Canterbury Tales and One Thousand and One Nights, but Owl is such an endearing character that I prefer his book to the mouse's.
My daughter chose this book for me to read as part of my deal with the kids to read more children's books. I was struck by how sweet and poignant the stories are. Owl invites winter in because it seems so lonely and cold. He wants to be upstairs and downstairs at the same time, but of course that's impossible. Lobel understands deeply the frustrations of young children with big hearts. He puts those sensitive hearts into sweet characters and the results are inevitably charming.
