https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33016.The_Complete_Poems
Neutral TonesWe stood by a pond that winter day, And the sun was white, as though chidden of God, And a few leaves lay on the starving sod,  —They had fallen from an ash, and were gray. Your eyes on me were as eyes that rove Over tedious riddles solved years ago; And some words played between us to and fro—  On which lost the more by our love. The smile on your mouth was the deadest thing Alive enough to have strength to die; And a grin of bitterness swept thereby  Like an ominous bird a-wing….
Since then, keen lessons that love deceives,	And wrings with wrong, have shaped to me	Your face, and the God-curst sun, and a tree,	  And a pond edged with grayish leaves.is it because i am a girl and am having a bad day and therefore susceptible to wildly windmilling mood swings, that coming across this poem again in the hardy bio i am reading today made me cry a little?
and i remember when i studied it in my modernism class in undergrad, there was a typo in the copy we were reading, and it said "chidden by" instead of "chidden of" god.
I have only read the complete poetic works of two other poets--Emily Dickinson and Christina Rossetti; and Thomas Hardy is certainly their equal, not only in output, but in quality, and Voice.Hardy's poetry spans a period of time from the 1860s to his death in 1928.
Hardy is truly a master at delving into the raw human emotions associated with birth, growing up, life, Love, marriage, and even death.
Read it aloud to yourself, and experience the full beauty and power of the rhyming and metre of the poem.
The huge variety of poetic structures that consequently results is astounding and exhilarating, and his writing has had an important influence on subsequent poets.Most of Hardy’s poems are narrative in nature, usually presenting vignettes about common people and common life, often with dark, tragic, fated, or at least poignant endings.
Many of his poems are lyrical love poems to his first wife with whom he had a progressively fraught and estranged relationship during their marriage, these poems having been written after her death; if one is aware of his life and history, the result can seem a little disconcerting.I have always liked Hardy’s novels and have reread them a number of times.
I picked up (saved) a 1928 edition of collected poems out of a recycling bin which I now cherish and which is constantly at my elbow.
The Complete Poems (paperback) I acquired in order to take it on the road, and for it to be well handled and take the abuse (not intended) which my cherished fragile hard-back 1928 edition may not tolerate.
I now consider Hardy (like D.H. Lawrence) to be a better poet than novelist.
Some critics consider his poems dated and too Victorian but I dare anyone to read “She (At His Funeral)” and say it is dated and irrelevant.
"A felicidade não depende do que nos falta, mas do bom uso do que temos". (Thomas Hardy)
Poetry like art is subjective to the eye of the beholder. Even in the midst of difficult text the subtle human experience of trudging through the past can bring on melancholy of our own lives and recent past.
Philip Larkin thought Thomas Hardy the greatest of the Twentieth Century poets, and reading through the complete poems you see the similarities between the two.
The range of Hardy's forms is quite astonishing.
Yes, a good 75% must be on the same theme of thwarted love (as with the novels) but even within these there is variety.I suppose my main reason for reading the collected poems were to discover new and enjoyable poems.
I discovered a few, but as so often is the case, the best ones are those that your attention has already been drawn to.
-love poetry so trying new poets-wasn't for me-don't enjoy the style-difficult read-will however try his books another time
Sorta like if Mendelssohn's "Songs without Words" were rendered into nineteenth-century English verse-- and generously sprinkled throughout with a helping of melancholy.
955 beautiful poems, mostly a heartbreak, the poet has succeded to write on every thinkable shade of love, romance, comedy, tragedy and drama of life.Incredibly witty and intelligent, I only regret my own feeble memory beeing unable to keep these poems in my mind. It would be nice to call them up at will and speak them out in the right mood and company. I will keep this book now next to Emily Dickinsons poems, giving it the rank of shared favorites.A must read for poetry lovers.
Thanks to the haphazard way in which, as children, we come to discover the things that -- once sensational -- now twiddle their thumbs in the vast social basement known as "culture," I loved Hardy's poems before I even knew about his novels.
He has one in particular, called "During Wind and Rain," that always appears in my head before a storm (i want the title to be a Lear/Twelfth Night reference, and so i have never tried to find out if it actually is or not).
I am tempted to put the whole poem in this review, but i dont want to deprive anyone the pleasure of hunting it down for herself.
I've read through the entirety of Hardy's poetical works twice now, and I think I can confidently say, though with more than a little disappointment, that I won't be doing so ever again.
I want to like Hardy's poetry, and at times, here and there, I do, but his metrical choices, his predilection for repetition, and the way he assumes line breaks are always pauses do more to dissuade me from his verse than anything enjoyable or admirable in them could possibly counterbalance.
I'll probably read selections from Hardy's poetry now and then, and I'll be glad to come across the typically anthologized pieces, but all my love for Hardy the novelist has proven insufficient to endear to me Hardy the poet.
I am living about less than 10 miles from Hardy's cottage. I made second visit and try to understand the life of Dorset's landscape. Under the Greenwood Tree and Far from Madding Crowd gave clear evidences that Hardy portray cottage's landscape into beautiful novel. The poem's book is also help me to understand many old english words -things that I am fascinated about.
Thomas Hardy is unusual among writers because he was successful at both novels and at poetry. Additionally, he can be studied as a Victorian or as a Modern writer because he was so long-lived (1840-1928). My favorite poem is "Neutral Tones," about the apathy he and his first wife Emma felt towards their marriage.
I loved Thomas Hardy's poetry. Reading this for class was an enjoyable experience. My favorites included: Neutral Tones,Under the waterfall and The Darkling Thrush. I like the melancholic aspects to his narrative and the imagery that he uses. Color is also important in Hardy's poetry. Hardy is by far one of my favorite poets and this has inspired me to go on and read his novels.
I love the emotion in Hardy's poetry, you can feel his pain. He wrote mainly about his complicated marriage and I feel as if I lived through it with them. I have been reading his poetry for 20 years and it never gets dull. I couldn't name a favourite because it depends on my mood and what is happening in my life. My favourite poet without a doubt.
Hardy, Hardy, Hardy... a brilliant novelist, but as a poet, he was uneven at best. He has moments of lyric brilliance in such poems as "The Darkling Thrush", but far too often, his poems have an air of the trivial. They are pretty - sometimes beautiful - rarely moving though, and even less often is there a hint of depth.Worth reading for the best poems though.
Hardy was a poet above all else and with a corpus of work like this it is clear why he felt the urge to registered his passion after June. Check out the self in seeing and beyond the last lamp for two lesser known gems
My rating is particularly aimed at the poems of 1912, which I love. They were written after the death of us first wife, with whom latterly he had a fraught relationship. When she died unexpectedly, he mourned the love they had lost before. Lovely.
There's just so much of Hardy in The Complete Poems, and every single page of it sounds so Hardyesque. They are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing, says Shakespeare, so read sparingly. But read. In conclusion, let us quote Bruce Willis: "This is Hardy here. Go."
Hardy is one of my primary inspirations. While I haven't read every poem in this massive volume, my favorites, such as "Neutral Tones," are always expanding to include poems that are new to me.
I absolutely love hardy's poems
Strong influence on my own poetry - even though mine is a very different genre. "Old Furniture" is one that comes to mind - Hardy's images of all the hands pulling at the draws over generations....
My favourite collection of poems yet. Hardy's talent ripples through his work and "Under the Waterfall" and "Beeny Cliff" are two of my most favourite poems of all time.
Did huge graduate paper on this guy - writes with a "woman's voice" prolific
Ah, divine.
One of the greatest poets
