https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46941.The_Demon
Hubert Selby, Jr., seems to me to be a less shitty version of Bret Easton Ellis. They both have the same focus on transgressive violence and emotive writing, but here, at least, Selby is far less hackish.Selby's writing style is experimental, just different enough to catch your attention, but simple enough to prevent the narrative from slowing down. He replaces apostrophes with slashes (he/s instead of he's), and crams in long run-on paragraphs next to scattered linesJustLike This In order to ke
Hubert Selby, Jr., seems to me to be a less shitty version of Bret Easton Ellis.
He enjoys this 1950's sitcom existence only briefly before his inner demon haunts him again and forces him to commit more and more grandiose and violent acts.Where Bret Easton Ellis has a more superficial focus on the problems of the 1980s and its Reaganist consumerism, Selby takes a more Calvinist spiritual dimension to the problems of spree killers and their psychotic evil, and how they infiltrate society.A 'good' book, but I'm told Last Train to Brooklyn is better.
I was a tad surprised and even disappointed at these two features of the novel which otherwise paid off completely in the things that I enjoy most about Selby's work in general, the feeling of one-ness that I feel with the rest of humanity through reading his perspicacious descriptions of human suffering, the great empathy we come to feel for the despicable characters that we otherwise would dismiss and ignore in everyday life, the feeling that I am not alone in all of the mess of being a human being.The reason that I note the heightened realism and more obviously Christian theme of this particular novel is not because I'm against either technique--my third favorite writer is Dante Alighieri, very Christian, and probably next is Ernest Hemingway, master of modernist literary realism--but because I think that these two elements weaken those strengths that I mentioned above, what usually makes Selby's work so uniquely effective at ripping my guts out and making me want to run out and sleep with the first homeless leper that I can find in order to keep them warm all through the night.
The Room was published in 1971, followed by The Demon in 1976 and Requiem For a Dream only two years(!) later.
With his two masterpieces behind him—Requiem and Last Exit to Brooklyn (1964)—Selby’s work was extremely sporadic and, apparently, subpar.
Publication dates suggest this novel occupied him for half a decade, despite Requiem being the superior work, but it’s by no means a patchy effort.
The Demon is a “psychological drama” (as TV schedulers say) following the progress of sex-addicted Harry from his womanising years, his attempt to shimmy up the (unconvincing) corporate ladder, to his slow transformation into a serial killer.
(I did this for you Reckoner) Μακάριος ἀνὴρ ὃς ὑπομένει πειρασμόν· ὅτι δόκιμος γενόμενος λήψεται τὸν στέφανον τῆς ζωῆς, ὃν ἐπηγγείλατο ὁ Κύριος τοῖς ἀγαπῶσιν αὐτόν. μηδεὶς πειραζόμενος λεγέτω ὅτι ἀπὸ Θεοῦ πειράζομαι· ὁ γὰρ Θεὸς ἀπείραστός ἐστι κακῶν, πειράζει δὲ αὐτὸς οὐδένα. ἕκαστος δὲ πειράζεται ὑπὸ τῆς ἰδίας ἐπιθυμίας ἐξελκόμενος καὶ δελεαζόμενος·εἶτα ἡ ἐπιθυμία συλλαβοῦσα τίκτει ἁμαρτίαν, ἡ δὲ ἁμαρτία ἀποτελεσθεῖσα ἀποκύει θάνατον.  Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is
(I did this for you Reckoner) Μακάριος ἀνὴρ ὃς ὑπομένει πειρασμόν· ὅτι δόκιμος γενόμενος λήψεται τὸν στέφανον τῆς ζωῆς, ὃν ἐπηγγείλατο ὁ Κύριος τοῖς ἀγαπῶσιν αὐτόν.
Απλή σημείωση και όχι κριτική: Δεν μπορώ να πω, όπως μερικοί αναγνώστες, ότι το The Demon είναι καλύτερο απ'το American Psycho.
Το γυναικείο φύλο είναι μόνο στήθη και πισινοί, η κοινωνική τους θέση δεν τους κάνει ύποπτους για φόνο κτλ).
Η πιο σημαντική για μένα είναι ότι ο Χάρι νιώθει αηδία για τον εαυτό του.
Ο Πάτρικ, όχι μόνο δεν κάνει προσπάθειες να βγει απ'τον λαβύρινθο (έξυπνο αγόρι, έβλεπε μπροστά.
The first 3/4 of this book is about a man addicted to sex.
He's successful, rich and has a beautiful wife and 2 kids but everything is falling apart because he can't keep his dick in his pants when it comes to other women.
Sound familiar so far, Tiger?Eventually though, having one night stands doesn't provide enough excitement for him so he moves on to stealing things just for the hell of it.Then even that begins to pale, so he turns to the ultimate thrill...murder.Selby does a good job of keeping a relatively simple plot interesting for 312 pages.If you want to read something different and aren't too prudish, you should give this a try.
Defenetly for me his best work,darkly classic,some say long but it's the point,the guy possessed try to go normal and slowly,so very slowly slide back in.The episode of the passion for the plants is the exemple,when it stop ,they all die,it take ages.You need to be in good form to read it so,not very cheerfull,to say the least.When the book his finished you find life light and bright.Compared to most of the palaniuk,ellis,ect...Selby his very classic,no trick,just pure Dark litterature
Harry White's tragedy seems to have been inspired by St. Augustine equation of sin with sex.
In the beginning, Harry's discreet affairs with random married women feel a bit funny.
Then you see Harry getting married and on the fast track to a well-paid corporate job.
Yet his obsessiive need for sin and retribution leads him to petty crimes, then to murder and eventually to spectacular violence.
I wonder, is the moral of the story about the dangers of lust?
I don't think it's an accident that the ultimate outburst of violence is directed at an authority of the Roman Catholic church.
Hubert Selby Jr. now holds a very special place in my heart; be it a black, dirty place in my heart dripping in blood and other unmentionable secretions that craves stories about seemingly normal people that slowly descend into their own personal hell.
Along with the sickly addicting subjects, Selby's writing style is something of it's own.
After reading for an extended period of time, you start to feel like you are on some sort of crazy ride that is impossible to jump off of.
I finally realized that this "driving" sort of feel to the book is supplied by Selby's lack of punctuation like periods.
Ellis's novel took things to the extreme, while in The Demon, our hero Harry dives into his psychosis with a methodical, deliberate approach.We first meet Harry as an arrogant young man with a promising future, and a yen for married women.
Between his job, his commute and his home turf there is no shortage of young married women whom Harry can work his charms on.
But, if you've ever read anything by Hubert Selby before, you know that shit is going to go south for our Harry in a bad and ugly way.
After having been floored by Selby's "The Room" a few months ago, I went into "The Demon" not expecting to be as moved and instead I found myself bored, stiff.
However, as life goes, the story goes and he marries Linda and subsequently she pops out a couple little Whites.
"The Demon" will likely only be enjoyed by big fans of Selby and should not be the first Selby book one reads, no matter the captions on the front and back of the jacket proclaiming this to be his best - it is his weakest offering.
Selby JR lulls you into a false sense of security with his artless, unassuming style. You know something's coming but you feel safely distanced from it. Before you know it, you're sliding. The characters dark concerns become your concerns and before you know it you are off the rails and running the gauntlet of the psychological horror that is a genre all of it's own in Selby's hands. What you thought was artlessness is calculated manipulation and concrete style. One of the true mavericks of the late twentieth century.
Selby takes on what it means to be consumed by guilt, but lacking the ability to refrain from certain passions. This results, predictably, in heartbreak of the truest kind, the kind you do to yourself. The prose was easy to read and definitely unique to Selby. My only complaint would be the frantic nature of the end of the book, I think it would have dealt a heftier blow if it kept on pace with the rest of the writing.
Many authors have attempted the "sane person loses his mind" story, but nothing will compete with The Demon in that regard.
I've never been more convinced of a character in a book who just completely loses his mind and Selby's erratic and unconventional writing style builds an atmosphere of panic that will affect the reader.
He simply shows you the essence of a complete mental and emotional breakdown that erupts to pure insanity.You can be sure that Hubert Selby Jr's stories will not end on a positive note.

Quite similar to American Psycho by Bret Easton Ellis, with the exception of that was a far better book than this one.
Far better.
I'm really not understanding all of the 4 and 5 stars this book has received.
This plot isn't nearly as graphic as the aforementioned book, unfortunately.
The build up starts.
For me, though, the build up leads to a very unrealistic unfolding of events.
The grammar issues, the lack of gore considering the plot, and the let down led me to knock off 2 stars.
This one was hard to put down at the beginning.
The progtagonist, Harry White, is a real bastard.
The humor is subtle, and dark, my favorite kind.Styleistically, the book is intriguing as well: Selby doesn't attribute in direct dialogue, doesn't use quote marks, and uses some other odd techniques that I hadn't seen before, yet it all flowed clearly.The book also ended strongly.
A criticism would be that the middle seemed padded and is a bit monotonous.
It seems like the book could have 100 pages cut from the middle and not lose anything.Still, I will be reading more Selby.
Hubert Selby Jr does it again, taking us on a journey from the depths of humanity into the bosom of hell. This time sex addiction is man's poison and it ain't pretty. I needed to take a few showers after this fable. Man's fall never felt so disgusting and heartfelt at the same time. Selby is not pretty, but he sure is honest. Read it... then become Catholic.
Pour moi, le meilleur de HSJ qui figure dans mon top5 des auteurs. Je n'ajouterai rien de plus. A lire absolument
Also read my review here: http://bookbum.weebly.com/book-review... Behind me theres a house, a beautiful house with a loving family, and my guy is filled with rats and maggots that are chewing me up alive. I feel like the aim of this book wasn’t just to shock, but also as a reminder that wealth, sex, admiration and success don’t necessarily lead to a happy life.I found, to begin with, this was so great at flowing along with the story. There were no sections that seemed overly long and boring, it
I feel like the aim of this book wasn’t just to shock, but also as a reminder that wealth, sex, admiration and success don’t necessarily lead to a happy life.I found, to begin with, this was so great at flowing along with the story.
Now, I was expecting this to happen in this book, Harry’s known as “Harry the Lover” so it’s pretty obvious that he’s going to be addicted to sex, but it went on for too long.
I kept wondering how far Harry was going to go to hold down his madness.People get annoyed with the way Selby Jr writes his novels, but I think it’s cool.
The psychopathic person cannot be questioned, and one is ridiculed if one does question the psychopathic person, because the psychopath must make life as worthless, bloody, insane as possible, in order to comprehend his mental illness and a life that has rejected him on all fronts (Often times avalanching via self-infliction so as to justify the wasted life; trust me, I once lived with the clinically insane) and so Harry's swan song is not unexpected, nor believable, but the point is that anyone who might find this book their favorite is probably someone who worships Norwegian Death Metal, around midnight will admit to knowing every single Marilyn Manson lyric by heart, maybe even has a pentagram tattooed on their like genitals, who knows, etc - for the rest, this is pretty standard fair in the life of the American psychopath.
In which the main character defies himself, constantly, in a sort of permanent bet.
But it all happens as if playing with himself.
One can share his oddities as a sort of adrenaline shots, of heavier dose each time.
No doubt Harry loves risk.
Selby's trick is to make us share it.
He may not want to do what he is going to.
As in paradox, his private one remains a common and good life.
Can not share then, the takeover his inner demon has worked out on him.
Also, for other reasons not to be mentioned, Selby has nothing to see with Easton Ellis.
Anyone here read "American Psycho?" Okay, then you have a general idea already of who Harry White is and what he becomes.
Harry White has everything; a lucrative career, money, intelligence, athleticism, loving parents, sexual prowess.
Harry White is no exception.
No woman can say no to the charming, indefatigable Harry White.
It gives Harry White everything, bar nothing, that modern society (well, modern as of the 1950s) has to offer.
But all of these things, to Harry White, are just appurtenances to destruction.
But it's also a universal story because everyone has the potential to become a Harry White.
C'est l'histoire d'Harry White un jeune cadre brillant dans son travail et véritable coureur de jupons à ses heures perdues.
Bref, il a tout pour réussir et pourtant ...Il lui arrive parfois d'avoir en fin de journée une boule au creux du ventre.
Difficile aussi pour lui de supporter les petits échecs qui sont le lot quotidien d'un jeune cadre au travail: les remontrances du chef, les commérages des collègues, les rivalités, la réussite des autres.
Harry sent bien que quelque chose couve et pousse au fond de lui et se sent à l'étroit mais pour l'instant il arrive à le contenir.Le démon est une oeuvre surprenante et subtile.
In the other books I've read by Selby, Selby writes about drug addicts and thieves and explores desperate characters that an ordinary person would already presume to be a part of degenerative, base activities .
Note: I would have given this book five stars, but the middle section was pretty lackluster and having read a couple of Selby's other works(which were masterpieces), I know that Selby could have tightened the middle section up and kept the intensity of the beginning and end of "The Demon" throughout the novel if he had wanted to.
Another excellent, non judgemental review of a seriously flawed character.Harry White lives as an only child with his devoted parents at the start of the book.
However, he looks for other ways to satisfy the itch and starts on petty crime working his way to murder as the thrill wears off.He really is on the way down and the final 30 pages are breathless as he commits his final crime, that links the theme of the book together - sin and redemption.Absolutely wonderful writing - unflinching, non accusing.
Pero si nada hizo que me identificara con las prostitutas, obreros en huelga y transexuales de Brooklyn en los años 50, la trayectoria fulminante de este joven de clase media alta me desarmó completamente y despertó una vez más mis peores fantasmas.
Y de entre todas las salidas posibles Harry opta por el autoengaño, la mentira y la destrucción.
El descenso a los infiernos transcurre en los inmundos departamentos del bajo Manhattan, los atestados metros que llevan de Midtown al suburbio y -sobre todo- en el interior de una mente cada vez más enferma y poseída por un obsesivo demonio.
I like the way this book sits on the shelf right near Motel Chronicles by Sam Shepherd and the Raymond Roussel's Locus Solus.
I like the way that I remember reading this book on the top bunk of a bunk bed, in a room that I shared with my brother.
I like the way this book critiques yuppies, even though I'm not really sure that this was the intent.
I like the way this book uses hyperbole and creates a sort of recklessness with its character development, or I should say character collapse.
I like the way this book uses house plants as a major plot element.
I am on page 3 and I am putting this book down like the bad, bad dog it is, before it can waste any more of my time.Selby can't for the life of him figure out what tense he wants to use, his main character is apparently supposed to come off as a player even though he still lives with mummy and daddy, and reading "Harry Whites" as many times as I have already makes me want to start a holy war in the name of disrespected apostrophes everywhere.
There is every indication that this book is without any hope of redemption.Seriously, don't read this book if you're not able to overlook some serious bastardization of the English language.
I'm pretty sure I got it for free, and after 3 pages of reading, I still feel ripped off.
Apparently this is one of Gaspard Ulliel's favourite books, so obviously, in a totally Annie Wilkes 'I'm-your-number-one-fan' way, I had to read it.
Thankfully, it was a fantastic read (how would I ever face Gaspard again if it had been crap??).
I can see why it has been likened to the film 'Shame', although I wanted to switch that off after half an hour and take a bleach shower - this, however, whilst perhaps more disturbing, is more compelling.
Not an easy read by any means (Harry's descent into darkness and the increasing power of his 'demon' is tough to read about), but worth it, and the ending, while bleak, is satisfying.Thank you, Gaspard.
Un putain de roman dur à ne pas mettre entre toutes les mains!Selby JR , en passe de rejoindre le panthéon de mes auteurs favoris, nous plonge droit dans l'esprit dérangé d'un homme qui a tout pour être heureux, et nous fait vivre à plein régime l'ascension fulgurante qui précède sa non moins foudroyante descente aux enfers! Une claque magistrale à se prendre en pleine gueule, de plein fouet, droit au coeur.
