https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/609284.The_Haunted_Bookshop
As Roger Mifflin, the very enlightened and often witty proprietor of the shop states: "That’s why I call this place the Haunted Bookshop.
There’s only one way to lay the ghost of a book, and that is to read it."Roger and wife, Helen, run this cozy little store in Brooklyn.
The addition of these two into Mifflin’s little circle enables him to expound on his love of literature, his ideas regarding booksellers, his thoughts on the evils and futility of war, and his desire for world peace (most of which can be accomplished by widespread book-reading, naturally.) "Printer’s ink has been running a race against gunpowder these many, many years.
Long ago I fell back on books as the only permanent consolers.
It saddens me to think that I shall have to die with thousands of books unread that would have given me noble and unblemished happiness.Scott Esposito made a shocking confession a few years ago on Coversational Reading: he didn't go to used book stores.
I was and remain shocked.
My attentions were drawn to such because of a GR list about numerous texts cited within, including Burton's Anatomy.
Well, not only is Anatomy of Melancholy referenced, it is inspires the protagonist and the novel three-quarters of the way through.
2.5 StarsI found this somewhat disappointing after Parnassus on Wheels.
in Parnassus, we had a sweet, comfort read, perfect for book lovers.
In Haunted Bookshop, we still have a bookish setting which is nice,  but the story itself (in my opinion) is a cheesy, rather boring mystery featuring German troublemakers, a missing book, and a tepid romance.Nope, not a winner for me.By the way, this is not a ghost story.
The only "ghosts" are fictional characters living in unread books.
Oh, and one thing that bugged me as a book lover, the incessant SMOKING done in the bookshop.
Nooooo, don't do it!
A delightful story (love letter of sorts in a figurative way) celebrating bookshops, booksellers, bibliophiles, wordsmiths, and the joyous phenomenon of being 'haunted' by books.
. It's one of the uncanniest things I know to watch a real book on its career - it follows you and follows you and drives you into a corner and  makes  you read it." Woven into this classic is a dallying real world romance between Roger's apprentice bookshop clerk and a newly acquired advertising acquaintance, in addition to an 'explosive' bit of book sleuthing surrounding the disappearing, reappearing, Oliver Cromwell's Letters and Speeches, with Elucidations by Thomas Carlyle: Volume 1.
A love letter to booksellers, The Haunted Bookshop says,"In every bookstore, small or large, there are books we have not read; books which may have messages of unsuspected beauty or importance. They may be new books, they may be of yesterday, or of long ago. . . We have what you need, though you may not know you need it."
I seem to be the only person to like Morley's first book, Parnassus on Wheels, better than the sequel.
I think it was mainly that I enjoyed Helen as a POV character better than Aubrey, who I didn't much care for.
I mean, I get that his callow-youth-ness was deliberate, but I didn't care much about him nor was I rooting for him to get the girl.
You can do better, Titania!
The German spy plot was pretty silly, although it probably held up better in the WWI era.
It was fun, though, and all the parts about books were good.
"Read, every day, something no one else is reading," said the civilized Christopher Morley.
Here's his valentine to lovers of books and bookshops.
What are spies doing at the shop in Brooklyn ?
Reading the same book, of course.An early work (1919) from the likeable Morley is excessively cute.
It reads like a YA story as W1 spies in Brooklyn seek to plant a bomb in a book that will be given to dullard President Wilson as he heads by ship to the Peace Conference.
This ode to bookstores, "one of humanity's great engines," has a barking dog who nabs the culprit and has a final woof.
This is a charming homage to the world of second hand booksellers, set in the time immediately after WWI.
Roger Mifflin reprises his role begun in Parnassus on Wheels but is now stationary with his now-wife Helen in a bookstore in Brooklyn, not rolling along the roads of the country as an itinerant bookseller.
The story allows for frequent philosophical musing on the place of books in the then modern world, the place of the seller as an educator of the masses.
There is a mystery and a romance to top off the tale.Highly recommended as a period piece but I recommend reading "Parnassus on Wheels" first.
Well-loved books from my pastRating: 3.5* of fiveAllegedly a spy story-cum-mystery, it's really a love note from author Morley to the trade of bookselling, with a side of supremely sweet love story.And I can't help myself, I am charmed and beguiled by the book, by the memories it holds, and by the sheer anti-German fervor of it.This book and Parnassus on Wheels were in my maternal grandmother's library.
I used the period-perfect anti-German caricatures in this book to get up his nose in a way he couldn't complain about without getting his titty in the wringer of freedom of speech and encouraging reading etc etc.
Su autor, Christopher Morley, nos adentra en una librería encantada (tal como reza el título del libro), donde conoceremos la pasión que siente el librero por los libros; por esos fantasmas que, según él, asechan a todo lector.
También veremos y conoceremos a la señorita Titania, hija de un rico hombre de negocios, que se traslada a vivir a la librería, y como no, al publicista que palpita por su amor.
Un libro que para mí es bueno a usted podría parecerle una tontería.
Mi gran placer es prescribir libros para todos los pacientes que vengan hasta aquí deseosos de contarme sus síntomas.
This classic mystery was a real page turner, very exciting, and for the book lover there was alot of additional knowledge on the history of various books, authors, etc.
The plot, which focuses on some unusual happenings at the Mifflin's bookshop, was well presented and though it appeared to be a bit slow at times with Roger Mifflin expounding on books and their importance coupled with many elements of the book trade, the information was so interesting that I don't believe the volume deserves anything less than 5 stars...
"When you sell a man a book," says Roger Mifflin, protagonist of these classic bookselling novels, "you don't sell him just twelve ounces of paper and ink and glue you sell him a whole new life."
את הספר הראשון פרנסוס על גלגלים אהבתי, הוא היה מקסים.
טטיאנה מתלמדת וכשיום אחד מגיע לחנות אייברי, סוכן פירסומות, היא שובה את ליבו והוא מתחיל לקרקר סביבה כמו תרנגול מאוהב.ברקע של הספר, מזימה איומה של הגרמנים לפגוע בוודרו וילסון.
הספר הזה כבד ואין בו את הקלילות של פרנסוס.
הוא נכתב לאחר מלחמת העולם הראשונה, ב 1919.
אז חשבו שמלחמת העולם הראשון על 30 מליון הרוגיה היא הנוראית ביותר.
האנושות לא חזתה בהרס והחורבן של הירושימה ונגסקי, היא לא חזתה בעשרות מליונים רבים של חיילים הרוגים בקרבות של מלחמת העולם השניה והיא לא חזתה בטיהורים של סטאלין.
President Wilson is headed out to the peace talks at the end of the war.
The Haunted Bookshop, so named because the owner is haunted by all the books he hasn't read (I can identify, Dude) has lost track of a book.
He is happy someone loved the book enough to steal it.
It is also the Presidents favorite book.
This was an excellent book and s fun read!
One of my favorite parts was the prescriptions the bookshop owner put on his bulletin board.
He listed books for when a person needs happiness, or if you have trouble sleeping, etc.
And this is one of those.Roger Mifflin runs a secondhand bookshop in just-post-WW1 Brooklyn, and expounds at great and rather tedious length on his philosophy of bookselling.
Unfortunately, the author couldn't resist letting Roger babble on about books, bookselling, and reading, at quite appalling and utterly irrelevant length, leaving the story hanging at often inopportune moments.
And his thoughts, alas, are repetitive and not really very interesting.The author would have done better to have saved the philosophising for an essay and left the story uninterrupted.
I like his idea that the uncommon customer acts as our "unconscious agent of book-destiny," leading us to an author we haven't yet met.
But the pull of book-destiny will assert itself too strongly, and I know I'll be led, instead, to read a handful more Morley titles as I can find them (why are they going out of print?!) with, perhaps, a few more readings of the first through third chapters, for some phrases to keep in my head as the next person asks me for "that history of Masonism" or "Dear God, it's Vodka."
Es ist ein ruhiges Leben, in dem sich alles um Bücher und ihren Hund Bock dreht.
Doch der Leser sollte sich nicht in den Büchern und dem Rauch der Pfeife verlieren und so geht es bald nicht mehr ganz so beschaulich zu.
Eine reiche Erbin wird zum Azubi des Buchhändlers und ein junger Mann darf bald am eigenen Leib erfahren, dass Bücher durchaus gefährlich sein können.Mich sprachen besonders der Sprachstil, die eingestreuten Weisheiten bzw.
Wer das Buch gelesen hat, kann sich vielleicht denken, was ich damit meine.Drei Gründe, um dieses Buch zu lesen:- Leser fühlen sich verstanden und gut in dieser Buchhandlung aufgehoben- Spannende Story, die sich natürlich um ein Buch dreht- Man nostalgischen Charme mag
Maybe different in tone from  Parnassus on wheels but I still liked it. The plot isn't really original (and maybe it is? you have to remember that this book was written a century ago) but the writing is fantastic. Short and lovely.
Mr Mifflin spent his days wreathed in cigar smoke, enjoying the customers and their pursuits for the next best book.
And the day a young man by the name of Aubrey Gilbert entered The Haunted Bookshop to sell Mr Mifflin some advertising was the beginning of an adventure which could have had a disastrous ending…Originally written in 1918 The Haunted Bookshop is an absolute delight.
The war and the effects the Germans had on London are mentioned with Mr Mifflin sure the war would not have happened had the Germans read his books, some special titles in particular.
Good fun: a wildly improbable plot, a beautiful damsel, a resourceful swain, very wicked baddies, Roger and Helen Mifflin, their dog Bock, and lots of secondhand books. What's not to like!
Aubrey has romantic feelings for Titania, the beautiful young woman working in Mifflin's shop.
Back to what I didn't like.I hated the treatment of the dog Bock in both books.
In Parnassus, Mifflin sells his bookmobile to Helen McGill, including his horse and dog.
Okay, I'm not a horse person, so I could kind of see that he considered the horse a working animal needed to pull the caravan but to just give away a dog you've had for ten years!
They took Bodhi's 11-year-old mother with them and brought Bodhi to the pound.
It bothered me that he just gave Bock away in Parnassus.
Dafür lernen wir Titania kennen, eine junge Frau aus gutem Haus, die die Arbeit in der Buchhandlung beginnt und etwas frischen Wind zwischen die verstaubten Buchregale bringt.Die Geschichte lebt von ihren Charakteren, zeigt sich aber auch sehr gesellschaftskritisch, vor allem gegenüber dem 1.
Diese zieht sich zwar durch das ganze Buch, war für mich jetzt aber eher eine kleine, schöne Nebenhandlung mit einer Wendung, mit der ich gar nicht gerechnet habe.Der Schreibstil ist auch hier sehr klassisch, was mir sehr gut gefallen hat, da es sich super schön lesen lässt und mal etwas ganz anderes ist.
The shop is depicted as warm and comfortable with people are allowed to browse at will and settle down in comfy chairs to read the books, smoking if they wish so that there is always 'an all-pervasive drift of tobacco smoke, which eddied and fumed under the glass lampshades'.Into this cosy world arrive two young people, Aubrey Gilbert, a young man working in advertising, hoping to find himself a new client in Roger and the beautiful heiress,Titania Chapman, daughter of a wealthy businessman whose father has sent her to work in the bookshop to learn about real life.
Or is there something else going on, as the young woman's admirer (a dedicated advertising man)?I remembered that I began listening to this LibriVox recording some time ago and then stopped when beginning my Lenten podcast fast (yes, SOME time ago!).
I picked it up to finish it again and have been really enjoying the low-key mystery, the gentle humor of the advertising man who sees everything in respect to his trade (even his love interest), and the amusing book theories put forth by the bookshop owner (who would not recognize them as being amusing at all, although we do).
My third consecutive reading centered on the inter-World war period, Bookshop reflects the optimism and social consciousness of that period, but overlaps a period romance and a mystery.
That the mystery involves an international bomb plot will jolt modern readers.
The text is clear of typographical errors which plague digitized older texts.The twentieth century featured three international conflicts—World Wars One and Two and the Cold War. Each ended with a flare of hope that man would finally learn to avoid future wars.
The Cold War ended and the Soviet Union dissolved even as the international community united to oust Saddam Hussein from Kuwait.
I can see why people find this charming-and a wee bit corny. It is set in a used bookshop in Brooklyn at the end of WWI which is "haunted" by the authors of all the unread books on its shelves. It celebrates the world of book lovers and casts a worried glance at the coming onslaught from motion pictures. The childless couple who live over the shop are drawn with humor and affection, as is their Brooklyn neighborhood. When a young woman joins them to learn the business of book selling, their tra
It is set in a used bookshop in Brooklyn at the end of WWI which is "haunted" by the authors of all the unread books on its shelves.
When a young woman joins them to learn the business of book selling, their tranquil domesticity is disturbed, and the plot meanders off into the realm of mystery.
Unfortunately, this plot twist is not convincing and the magical musing on bibliophilic devotion is lost.
It Mr Morley had found a more convincing story for his delightful characters-both human and canine-this book would have soared.
This was a delightful, old fashioned book with a clever story and interesting characters. I occasionally found Roger's long deliberations on all things literary a little tedious but this was more than made up for by the exciting mystery and the unexpected conclusion. I liked the characters enough to seek out a copy of Parnassus on Wheels which by all accounts is an even better book and one which I should probably have read first.
Not as good as Parnassus on Wheels. While that was a bookish love story, this sequel was more of a bookish mystery/spy thriller. But I'm glad I read them both. Written around 1919, they gave me a different perspective on that time.
Despite this book not being very long, I really felt like I knew the majority of the characters and didn't want the story to end.Plenty of action, a nice amount of book-talk and very likeable characters.
Pequeña decepción con la segunda parte de la historia de Roger y Helen. Una de las causas es que en este libro la historia se convierte en una intriga y se aleja del sentido del humor que había en cada página de la librería ambulante que era lo que yo quería encontrar leyendolo. Además el personaje de Helen pasa de ser protagonista a un secundario sin casi transcendencia con la aparición de los nuevos personajes.
The story begins with the arrival of Aubrey Gilbert, a young advertising man, at Mifflin's store.
He does not convince the bookseller to invest in advertising, but he does become intrigued by Mifflin's convictions concerning the value of books and booksellers to the world.
When I read this book, I did so with a notebook at my elbow to write down all the marvelous things that Mifflin says.
Haunted by the ghosts of books I haven't read.
If you'd like to hear more of Mifflin's wisdom--or if you're interested in a mystery that takes place in a turn-of-the-previous-century bookstore, then you should read The Haunted Bookshop for yourself.
