https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762390.The_Hour_of_the_Star
A sense of humour, and respect for cultural achievements and human connections...I then make the acquaintance of one of the most eccentric narrators I have ever met, who claims to tell the story of a young woman, but is more concerned with himself and his ultimate reasons for writing.
What we have here is a "wordy" and philosophical narrator who sets out to tell the story of a poor girl from North of Brasil but while doing so talks a lot more about himself, his reason for writing and the struggle to create a story.
In the narrators's own words: “The story, I determine - with false free will - will have around seven characters and I am obviously one of the more important.” this statement is contrary to his goal in the novel which is to tell the story of the girl as humbly as possible.
It is almost comical how the narrator starts to write about the girl then comes back to his struggles as writer and back to the story.
Μ. Είναι ο συγγραφέας-δημιούργημα της Κλαρίσε Λισπέκτορ και μέσα απο τα λόγια του, τις σκέψεις του, τα συναισθήματα του, μαθαίνουμε την τραγικά τρυφερή ιστορία της «Ώρας του Αστεριού».
Στην ουσία η Λισπέκτορ απο σεβασμό, λεπτότητα και απέραντη αγάπη γι’αυτό το αστεράκι που λάμπει μέσα στο βιβλιο της, συνδέεται πνευματικά με έναν άνδρα συγγραφέα που είναι η ίδια.
Μα μέσα απο την ανδρική επινοημένη υπόσταση του συγγραφέα που μας αφηγείται την ιστορία υπάρχει μια ιερή αποστολή.
Η Μακκαμπέα ήταν μια κοπέλα που «φυλαγόταν απ’ τον θάνατο ζώντας λειψά, ξοδεύοντας λίγο από τη ζωή της για να μην τελειώσει».
Because this novella is an entry in 500 Great Books By Women by Erica Bauermeister, I was intrigued to read this unique view on life and death amid the slums of Rio de Janeiro.Lispector chooses to make Brazilian poverty, still a hot button issue today, as the focus of her last novel.
In the opening pages, it is unclear who the novel's main protagonist is, but after an opening stream of consciousness monologue, we meet Macabea, who has come to Rio from Alagoas, close to Lispector's home state of Recife.
"Every once in a while she wandered into the better neighborhoods and gazed at the shop windows glittering with jewels and satin clothes — just to mortify herself a bit. Because she needed to find herself and suffering a little is a way of finding." One of these days, I'm going to put out a list of 100 most iconic book characters I have read and Macabea of this little book is going to be one of them. She is beautiful, she is healthy, she is confident, she is clever, she is witty, she is wealthy
One of these days, I'm going to put out a list of 100 most iconic book characters I have read and Macabea of this little book is going to be one of them.
In a world where people are defined those very qualities, she is lacking in, she is a non-entity but she doesn't know it, and that is what keeps her from sadness:
Unfortunately, because solitude is a luxury of rich, she lives in a slum in a room with women exactly like her.
But I’m fully aware of her: through this young person I scream my horror of life.
All in 90 pages?Clarice Lispector is difficult to keep up with simply because she writes the simplest prose with undoubtedly the highest ratio of thought to word on the planet.
God belongs to those who succeed in pinning him down....
Why is there so much God?
Death is an encounter with self."The reader is bounced on her sea of prose like a survivor from a wrecked civilisation.
With more pensees per page than Pascal, meatier aphorisms than Montaigne, contradictions and reversals to challenge the Bible, and offbeat observations to rival Borges, Poe and Kafka, if you like your fiction and your thinking densely packaged, you cannot go wrong with Lispector.
Unfortunately I don't have a copy of The Hour of the Star with me as I write, but perhaps these lines from one of her Chronicas ('Creating Brasilia') will help suggest the kind of writer she is or can be:Brasilia is built on the line of the horizon.When I died, I opened my eyes one day and there was Brasilia.The two architects who planned Brasilia were not interested in creating something beautiful.
One of the opening paragraphs serves as a manifesto of sorts, about the instability of life and time, the interplay between identity and words, and the impossibility of expressing truth in words:"As long as I have questions and no answers I’ll keep on writing.
In exploring this theme, Lispector destabilizes language itself -- referring to someone not noticed by others as "cold coffee," summing up the cycle of life and death as "a thin slice of watermelon." In the book's beginning, the narrator's lyrical language confronts words' limitations by transcending them: "I am not an intellectual, I write with my body.
I returned to Clarice Lispector in the hopes of finding an appreciation for her that I missed in The Passion According to G.H., which confounded and tortured me in its nonsensical, philosophical maze.
I hoped to redeem my less-than-stellar opinion of her by reading this, her last work.Sadly, even in the first few paragraphs, I was sighing.
I find nothingness in paragraphs that slide by, and I get this erroneous feeling that I could skip pages and not miss anything.
And then I read lines like this:All the world began with a yes.Thinking is an act.
“Everything in the world began with a yes. One molecule said yes to another molecule and life was born.”  Thus opens the The Hour of the Star. Published just before Clarice Lispector’s death, reading it you could wonder if there is little of the intimate Lispector of Near to the Wild Heart. However, she betrays herself from the start. If in her first novel it was by its title, here we discover it in her opening lines. However, it goes much deeper than the mere allusion to Joyce. If here we fin
If here we find Lispector more secluded, she is not less truthful to herself.The Hour of the Star is a story of abandonment that simultaneously offers solace.
When you read the narrator Rodrigo’s words, that tell the brief and nostalgic tale of Macabéa, if you sense in Lispector last novel less of the author and more of the characters, that isn't quite true.
Desperate, Macabéa visits a fortune-teller who predicts a brilliant future for her, not what she expected at all.Even creating a false author for the story, Lispector is not able to hide behind him.
That’s not a spoiler; Rodrigo tells you what is going to happen early on in the book and maintains an air of smugness with his sympathy throughout.This is the first Lispector I have read, and she has a unique style; the prose works well and she creates almost a fairy tale like atmosphere.
How do we know about her unloveliness and ugliness; Rodrigo tells us.
All of our judgements about her come from him; this, Lispector is telling us, is how men judge and value women.

Because there’s the right to scream.So I scream.A pure scream and without begging alms. 4.5 stars.In Clarice Lispector’s The Hour of the Star, I met a girl who wasn’t there. Was she a young typist from the slums of Rio, as the back cover of the book relates? Well, yes and no. For Macabéa was so wispily not-there, such a “thin slice of watermelon,” that I’m not sure I’d know her if I saw her again. Or is it that she, with her weirdly vaporous translucence, was in fact able to seep into and perme
For Macabéa was so wispily not-there, such a “thin slice of watermelon,” that I’m not sure I’d know her if I saw her again.
I’m hollow of that girl.”And how was this fragile yet invulnerable (yes, invulnerable; you cannot bruise the air) creation brought to life?
I can’t be certain, though I think I know what Macabéa would say to all my useless queries: Why ask?
What else could I be than this?She was far more insightful than you might think; her nothingness, knowing nothing, was able to clearly see all, and in seeing, to truly understand..
I swear this book is made without words.
A line that Elizabeth Hand, in Fantasy & Science Fiction calls Dhalgren’s “minatory epigraph.” I’m not a reader of F&SF or Ms Hand, but, dammit, they both deserve credit for use of the word ‘minatory.’Rodrigo S.M., an annoyingly intrusive narrator, presents the story of Macabéa—I say ‘presents’ because at times he seems to be relating events in her life as they occur, and at other times, he presents them as if he’s creating that life.
Think: intrusive narrator meets metafiction, hence the line from Dhalgren.
Her life is squalid, depressing, yet at times, she delivers very funny comments—not that she’s aware of them.Another reviewer mentions that Bolaño spoke highly of Lispector.
Interstellar Heap of Dust  Sim. This is how Clarice Lispector chose to finish her book: with the same word as Joyce did. His famous Yes. But she began with it too. For as she says in her opening line, everything in the world began with a Yes.And so she unfolds her story. Or lets her male narrator unfold it. Several barriers are thus created between her and us and her story – his story. And the Hour of the Star, not one of those in heaven, but the Star as a celebrity, is the title for the story
For as she says in her opening line, everything in the world began with a Yes.And so she unfolds her story.
And the Hour of the Star, not one of those in heaven, but the Star as a celebrity, is the title for the story of someone who is as notorious as a speck of dust.The banality of the fable is not matched by the sophistication of the novella.
Defending simplicity of language and reminding that the basic element of writing is the word, Lispector’s narrator recognizes that writing is an effort in self-knowledge.
(hide spoiler)]The speck of dust is a woman who does not acquire her name, Macabéa, for several pages.
As open and loose as interstellar dust.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Ότι πολλές φορές, τις περισσότερες για την ακρίβεια η βαθμολογία ενός βιβλίου είναι τελικά εντελώς καθαρά υποκειμενικό θέμα και δεν έχει να κάνει τόσο με το μεγαλείο ενός βιβλίου αλλά με το τι είχε να πει στον αναγνώστη τη δεδομένη στιγμή που το διάβασε χωρίς να σημαίνει βέβαια ότι δεν υπάρχουν κάποια συγκεκριμένα βιβλία τα οποία είναι σχεδόν αδύνατον να μην κατακτήσουν τον οποιοδήποτε αναγνώστη.
Ενα βιβλίο είναι καλό αναλογα με το τι έχει να πει στον αναγνώστη του τη δεδομένη στιγμη που θα το διαβάσει είτε αν πρόκειται για ενα εύπεπτο ανάγνωσμα είτε όχι.
Narrated by the cosmopolitan Rodrigo S.M., this brief, strange, and haunting tale is the story of Macabéa, one of life's unfortunates.
It's fascinating in its presumptive male narrator's chill and malign distance from the heat of life that makes Macabéa, the protagonist, both unfurl and wither seemingly simultaneously.The relationships that Macabéa, immigrant to the cold cruel city from the cold cruel countryside, forms are classics of naive toxicity.
(hide spoiler)]But Lispector, the creatrix, pulls the Oz-curtain aside periodically, dropping the rudimentary and nugatory male narrator into the bin when she has something important to say: "Will I be condemned to death for discussing a life that contains, like the lives of all of us, an inviolable secret?
I don't really mean that, but you understand.I'm growing to like a lack of sentiment in my reading these days.
The fact that the latter two have Nobel's to their name in no way an implication of refuted desires, I just read Lispector for godssakes and even I can tell the null and void of her politickings wouldn't appeal in the slightest to The Committee.
Who hasn't ever wondered: am I a monster or is this what it means to be a person?The girl is a truth I didn't want to know about.
I'm going to go off and do other things, eventually read A Breath of Life, and get back to you on that later.Also, the short works binge?
Não desesperada, pois isso nunca ficara já que era tão modesta e simples, mas aquela coisa indefinível como se ela fosse romântica.Vive num limbo impessoal sem alcançar o pior nem o melhor.
Era a primeira vez que chorava.
Não chorava por causa da vida que levava.
Chorava porque, através da música, adivinhava talvez que havia outros modos de sentir, havia existências mais delicadas e até com um certo luxo de alma."Enrico Caruso, "Una Furtiva Lacrima" (L'elisir d'amore, Gaetano Donizetti)".QUANTO AO FUTURO.Não esquecer que por enquanto é tempo de morangos.Sim."➖➖➖➖➖➖➖➖➖➖➖Primeira leitura em Julho de 2015 (2*)DióspiroÉ uma das frutas que mais gosto.
Κυνικό βέβαια με ένα τρόπο που δε μου ταιριάζει ιδιαίτερα, γι' αυτό και δεν μπορώ να πω πως η ανάγνωση του ήταν για μένα πέρα ως πέρα ευχάριστη.
Κανένα βιβλίο δεν είναι ποτέ μόνο ένα πράγμα, αλλά εδώ η Lispector παίζει πολύ, μέσα από την ιστορία που διηγείται, με τα δίπολα.
Η σμίλευση των ιδεών για να χωρέσουν στο πρόσωπο της Μακκαμπέα δείχνουν σίγουρα μια σημαντική λογοτεχνική ικανότητα, που δεν είναι όμως ούτε κοντά στο να τη χαρακτηρίσω groundbreaking.Είναι ένα βιβλίο που χαίρομαι που διάβασα.
Αλλά αυτό είναι κάτι εντελώς προσωπικό: Πάντα χαίρομαι να ορίζω λίγο καλύτερα τη λογοτεχνία που μου ταιριάζει από εκείνη που εκτιμώ.Η ώρα του αστεριού: ★★★½
Lispector toma un hecho y lo trata de adentro hacia afuera, de modo que uno se cruza con pensamientos ajenos, profundos y superficiales.La historia comienza con un escritor que está contando la historia de Macabea, una muchacha ingenua y algo exasperante que trabaja como dactilógrafa, es pobre y proviene del nordeste de Brasil, lo cual la hace un “bicho raro” en Río de Janeiro.
Es una novela de lo más curiosa, porque la voz del autor- personaje- narrador está todo el tiempo interviniendo y opinando (a veces bien, a veces mal) de Macabea y de su triste vida.
For the narrator - and, by extension, Lispector - one writes because one must and because one has questions, not because one expects answers.A good number of the figures of speech in Near to the Wild Heart were off-putting, straining more for effect than illumination, but such is not the case in The Hour of the Star, which is stripped down to focus on the, for me, riveting voice of the narrator, who admits that Macabéa is his creation - given to him in an exchanged glance with a nordestina in the streets - and who toys with her fate to satisfy his whimsy.

"She's the most non-literary writer I've ever known...I think she's a 'self-taught' writer, like a primitive painter." She saw her as one of those weird eels on deep sea vents - a phenomenon unique and self-invented.
"What I'm writing somebody else could write," says whoever's telling the story.
No, seriously, all the sentences are like this, I'm not making it up, this is actually how good Clarice Lispector is.
A fortune teller shows up near the end and tells Macabéa a different story about her life.
I know about lots of things I've never seen," she says.
Πώς να μην υπερχειλίσουν μέσα σου μια γλυκερή, πονετική κατανόηση γι' αυτή τη γυναίκα, εύθραστη και ετοιμόρροπη απ' τις καθημερινές ξηρασίες της ζωής;Παρ' όλα αυτά, Η ώρα του αστεριού μου φάνηκε με έναν τρόπο ενοχλητικό ανάγνωσμα.
Έτσι, μπορούμε μόνο να απλώσουμε το χέρι μας και να χαϊδέψουμε τη Μακκαμπέα, υγρές από τις συγκινήσεις που εκείνη δε γνώρισε.Αν και εξαιρετικά περίπλοκο, το επίμετρο της Hélène Cixous άγγιξε περίπου τον πυρήνα όσων ένιωσα διαβάζοντας τις εκατό πρώτες σελίδες, αν και για έναν περίεργο λόγο ανέτρεξα πρώτα στη δική της ανάλυση πριν βουτήξω στο λογοτεχνικό κείμενο.Η Ώρα του Αστεριού δε θα γίνει ένα απ' τα αγαπημένα μου βιβλία, τη Μακκαμπέα, πάντως, θα τη θυμάμαι.
Μια λέξη μου ήρθε στο μυαλό όταν ολοκλήρωσα αυτό το βιβλιαράκι: Πομφόλυγα. Κατανοώ την ανάγκη διαφοροποίησης των σύγχρονων συγγραφέων, αλλά αυτή πιστεύω πως πρέπει να εδράζεται σε κάτι πολύ πιο ουσιαστικό από μια προσπάθεια ψεύτικου εντυπωσιασμού και "δήθεν" αισθητικής. Αν δεν ήταν δε τόσο μικρό σε έκταση, ομολογώ πως θα το είχα παρατήσει στις πρώτες σελίδες, ως ανούσια και επιτηδευμένη κατασκευή. Πολλοί άλλοι αγαπητοί συναναγνώστες/τριες προφανώς διαφωνούν με την άποψή μου, όπως είδα από τις κριτικές, κάτι απολύτως κατανοητό και αποδεκτό. Ουδείς διαθέτει το αλάθητο, και τα περί γούστου, γνωστά σε όλους.
If you had tried to convince me otherwise, I’d have brushed it off as make-believe.[A favela, or slum, in Rio, Brazil]As a way of accentuating her unimportance, the nothing that is her existence, the narrator says that there are thousands of girls like Macabéa.
It is as though Macabéa is a conduit, that it is the appearance [or illusion] of wanting to tell her story that gives Rodrigo S.M. the opportunity to talk about what he really wants to talk about: himself; he is, in this way, like all authors, who use, or take advantage of, their characters.
And so here.It must have been about three years ago, at a time I was still buying decadent quantities of paper books, when I ordered a copy of the new shiny Penguin Modern Classics edition of The Passion of G.H. and reading the first few crisp pages gave me the same insidious subtle "urgh", the same The Fear as Wide Sargasso Sea and Mrs. Dalloway, which means that several times now (some friends will have heard it boringly often) I've mentioned Rhys, Woolf and Lispector together as a trio of "the wrong sort of depressing" [for me].
Because Macabea is wretched, but she also has the ability to be happy, to find grace in her misfortune, and if no one notices her, its because she’s ‘supersonic’ rather than invisible (p62).Of course as Lispector interfaces with Macabea via a males narrator in a sort of Second Life endeavour, her exotic Frankensteinian creation assumes its own independence, and emphatically keeps getting away from its narrator.
Because I think Macabea comes as well, for the first and of course last time: her entire death sequence is one protracted sensual segue, a lusty embrace of life and orgasmic joy.
Sempre tive um pé atrás em relação à Clarice por conta de uma entrevista a que assisti.
O que me incomodava é que ela não se deixava ir muito a fundo.
Por mais objetiva que fosse a pergunta do jornalista, ela não se despia daquela aura enigmática, respondendo sempre de maneira oblíqua.
Pura besteira!A hora da estrela é de uma sensibilidade rara.
O narrador estabelece uma relação complexa com a personagem, repleta de ódio, repulsa, dependência, carinho, pena.
Uma história de desamparo, que reflete a miserabilidade da existência, até mesmo daqueles que parecem nem ter consciência de que existem.
