https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13148.Kiss_the_Girls
I have read approximately six Alex Cross novels and my experience throughout these books, Kiss the Girls included, is that Patterson does compose some gruesome and upsetting scenes including rape and murder so this is not for the lighthearted.
The other characters are presented in the third person which means that we have a complete view of everything that is happening and are with Alex when he puts the pieces of the puzzle together to try and rescue his niece, amongst the other missing ladies.
This is genuinely the worst book I have ever finished.To be fair, it is tolerable when there is action, which is often.
But every time James Patterson tries to put words coming out of a characters mouth, it makes you want to punch yourself in the face.
When he writes descriptive, emotional paragraphs, it makes you want to punch him in the face.I actually dog-eared a couple pages because the writing was so bad, I wanted to be able to quick reference it to people to show them how bad it was.Want another example of how bad a writer he is?
Okay I am getting hooked on Alex Cross and may now have to read this series straight through.
I really enjoy the pace of these books, the way each short chapter jumps straight to the next so the reader has no opportunity to put the book down.
I read this one in one day staying up far too late in order to finish it and loved every minute of it.
There is a lot of violence against women in it - that is its main theme after all since the murderers are insane rapists!
Otherwise I recommend Alex Cross to anyone who enjoys a good murder mystery.

In the entire history of my mature reading, spanning back to when I picked up Fahrenheit 451 at 15, I don't think I've ever read a single sentence as soul-crushingly, brain-batteringly, rage-inducingly bad as "He made a noise.
It sounded like 'yaaaaaaagh.'"HE MADE.
"YAAAAAAAGH."Readers of popular fiction, this is what your favorite authors think of you.
They think you're only capable of processing things at a fourth-grade level, that simply having a character shout "YAAAAAAGH" isn't enough; emphasis has to be placed on how the noise sounded like yagh, but didn't necessarily have to be yagh, it could've been something closely related like "yargh" or even "yogh." People who write sentences like that shouldn't be allowed publishing deals, they should be sent back to freshman creative writing class and kept there until they never type a sentence like that again.
I'm constantly complaining (I even annoy myself, really) about how the Women's Murder Club characters do not interact with each other like normal human beings.
I thought this was because Patterson can't write women, but now I'm starting to think he just can't right humans.
From Alex's erection leading him everywhere he goes, to the two psycho killers (written as so ridiculously prepared and intelligent and sexy it's honestly stupid,) who are "loving" women by anally raping them with snakes - yes, snakes.
Just count how many times he references looking like Ali. And he's a damn good father.
If you see me rating a book 5 stars, make sure you jump on it. Very very thrilling ! Thoroughly enjoyed. This story is a bit touchy as brutality is at it's best. Two astute example executioners are teaming up, participating, contending - and they are working across the nation. Just imagine how terrifying is this !In Los Angeles, a correspondent exploring a progression of homicides is murdered. In Chapel Hill, North Carolina, a wonderful restorative assistant all of a sudden vanishes. In Washington D.C. Alex Cross has returned to comprehend the most confounding and frightening homicide case ever.
Good luck trying to put this one down after starting it.
From start to finish this book will have you sweating with anticipation of whats to come.
James Patterson does a great job of putting realistic characters in believable situations that will have you on the edge of your seat i guess you could say.
The story is about a detective named Alex Cross who is called on to try to find two notorious serial killers.
Patterson describes them as twin killers.
The story has another twist to it.
This book is quick read and one worth reading.
If you like constant excitement this is the book for you.
This book will not disappoint!
A damn good cop.
A damn good doctor.
The phone rings, and he wonders if it's the FBI again, offering him that job running the DC police.
He lets it ring again, and again, and again.
He really doesn't have time for the FBI.
Because he's a damn good father, too.What utter, utter, utter trash.As in "Like Water For Elephants," every character in this Mills & Boon spinoff action novel is beautiful, perfect, confident, doubt- and flaw-less, cultured, smart, handsome, and wears a sixpack.
This was Mills & Boon trash.
Moreover, Kate in a lot of ways is an appealing, kick-ass heroine--a survivor who does everything to save herself, not just wait passively for rescue.What mars this is that when I think of this novel, I think of two scenes in particular, and it's not a good memory.
One is the rape of Kate by Cassanova.
But those scenes are so graphic, so explicit, to me they come across as pornography of the kind the two serial rapists are said to read and relish--The Story of O and School Girls in Paris among others named.
The scenes overwhelm the story as well as repel.
If there has ever been a more unecessary book written in English, well I don't know what it is.
I don't understand how people read Patterson at all.
Alex Cross is boring.
He's a boring, unlikely, barely likeable character.
That business with the snake was certainly the worst of Patterson's seeming mission to the women in his books until, I don't even know what the goal could possibly be.
James Patterson is the small pox of modern writing and he's going kill us or leave us so scarred by the trial we'll never be the same again.
When he discovers his niece is missing from her college in NC and might possibly have been kidnapped by a serial killer, he jumps into the case with NC authorities and the FBI.
I read the first book because it was listed as part of the Great American Read, and continued on because I like the characters, especially Alex Cross.
I'm not usually a fan of stories that jump around like that, but for this book, it worked perfectly.
I usually listen to audio books outside while I do yard work.
I loved this book more than Along Came a Spider, even though I really did like that one very much. I am becoming very endeared to the Cross character and his family. The plots were amazing and so intriguing in this installment. I enjoyed reading about the "twinning" dynamic concept of the serial killers and their communications. My quick and simple overall: SO ENTERTAINING to read!
Wowzers. I wasn't expecting that. Very entertaining and gripping. I now understand how this put James on the map. He did a fantastic job creating this story and surprising me with his talent. I'm officially a fan.
Is it some form of misguided feminism or a male fantasy?
I would argue male fantasy, but this sterotyping of the ideal female seems to be found in books by authors of both genders.I am all for feminism, but is having a women that is smart, beautiful, kind, hilarious, scrappy, great with kids, independent, logical, and good in bed really all that realistic?
I think some plausible neurosis needs to be included in any narrative, otherwise it is just a male fantasy (especially the beautiful and good in bed aspects) and not reflective of any woman with both talents and flaws.
This book was extremely creepy, yet very addictive!
I loved the way he didn't tie it all together and brough Sonji back at the end, we'll just have to wait until the next book!
The only thing I didn't like was that it just turned out to be this guy that we had just learned (very little if anything) about five pages ago.
I knew the whole time that none of the others were Cassanova though, because he continued to refer to Cassanova as "Cassanova." When we learned the Gentleman Caller was Will Rudolph, then the author began refering to him as "Will." The setting of some of the last pages was Outer Banks, NC!
Alex is a forensic psychologist with the Washington police force.
At first Alex is not made welcome by the local police and has, for the most part, to go it alone.
One of the missing girls turns up with a horrendous account of what she and other girls have been put through.
To say horrendous is an understatement these girls are in hell.The race is on to find Alex's niece before it's too late.You might think you know who the psycho is but you wont find out until the last few pages.
So far I enjoy the Women's Murder Club books better, but I'm still going to stick with Alex Cross.
With the help of Casanova's escaped victim Kate, Alex Cross hopes to capture these crazy madmen and get Naomi back.
I feel like the reader gets to know Alex Cross better.
The non-stop action in this book is wonderful.Now to the complaints...I feel like at this time in Patterson's career he was still figuring out his writing style.
His point-of-view changes are still existant in current books, but I feel like he was more experimental and confusing with it in this early Alex Cross book.
Sometimes it's really creepy how some authors get into the heads of psychopaths. Here is an excellent example. Read this disturbing novel. The short chapters and compelling storywill have you whipping through this one in no time. Watch those paper cuts.
At the beginning, with the prologues, I though there was one killer with two different scenes.
In the beginning of Kiss the Girls you are instantly hooked with two different murder scenes on opposite sides of the coast.
The other killer calls himself The Gentleman Caller who kills within L.A. Both guys are extra creepy and will make you cringe throughout the book - but they do get you hooked onto this book.
Spoilers below!(view spoiler)[Now we get to see Cross come back into these murders and hope to see how he will catch the killers.
Well, first off, Alex Cross's niece Naomi had been kidnapped.
This was good.
I really enjoyed Along Came a Spider a few years back and while this wasn't as memorable, it was still pretty good.
It was fast paced and suspenseful, a definite page-turner.
One of the scenes was far too graphic and unnecessary- a cheap shock tactic that served no real suppose.
Also, leaving Kate alone like that was so unbelievably stupid, I still can't figure out why they did it (other than to add another scary scene.) Other than that though, it was excellent and very compelling and I'm very interested in the rest of the series.
I picked this up because Brendan Dassey mentioned it. Now I have more thoughts about Making a Murderer. However, my opinion of James Patterson remains the same.
Second book in the Alex Cross series from Patterson is even better than the first.
Fight to the death of course, hopefully the bad guy's death...Alex Cross is still getting over his last case when a new set of problems overshadows his daily grind.
I also liked all the red herrings Patterson threw in, by the end of the book I had my own thoughts about the suspect and noticed how clever Patterson was and not called him by his real name but only as Casanova, so the reader didn't even realize that perhaps the guy being chased is actually someone else, this might not make much sense till someone reads the whole book.
Without giving away too much in THAT series, in a later episode, a young man who earlier on in the show gave (what appears to be heavily coerced, probably bullshit) a confession in which he described a murder that may have occurred.
This book is not good.This young man in the series, who is presented in a recording of a jail house phone call talking to his mother, and neither of them knows what the word "inconsistent" means, later takes the stand in his own defense.
Upon cross-examination the young man offers that he may have read something like what he described in a book.
I'm convinced that Mr. Patterson could place these two in even the most mundane storyline and still come up with a winning book.
The human monsters in this book are ruthless, arrogant, unapologetic and quite dispicable.
As the reader, the desire for Cross and Sampson to apprehend the atrocities masquerading as humans is even a bit stronger than the need for the victims to be saved.
Having said that, some of the victims are amazing, strong women; leaving the reader with a wish to see the ladies kick butt.
Any chance Mr. Patterson is generous enough to give the reader everything he/she hopes for in a book?
Like all of Patterson's work this is a sickening pulp thriller with crappy dialogue, cardboard characters, and enough sympathy for the devil to really make you wonder. This potboiler features a pair of sexy, enticing, ludicrously smart, impossibly prepared sickos who torture and kill impossibly smart, ludicrously attractive women. It's hard to tell where Patterson's misogyny starts and where his sadism begins. All I know is that he's easily one of the most repulsive, reprehensible, shameless, and embarrassing genre authors in America.
I read this just because I was at a loose end and my serious reading was not progressing. I have said goodbye to this type of thriller for quite a long time now.It could be called an okay read, I guess. I could not say in all fairness since I had already seen the movie, so it was spoilt to an extent - even though I didn't remember the plot.
I thought I'd read this book a long time ago, but someone recently told me she had to stop reading after "the snake scene" and I didn't remember any snake scene (and she told me that I definitely would--and now I do), so I had to see if it was as bad as she made it seem.
Didn't strike me as any more graphic than any other Patterson book, and it was definitely Patterson before he became a corporation, so much better than that last awful book of his I read.It was an interesting situation because this is an early book and later books talk about something that I kept remembering all the time I was reading this one, which made me know who the killer, "Casanova" was.
Alex Cross is an amazing character. If you like other James Patterson books I highly recommend this whole series. The story lines are fast paced and I haven't read on yet that I didn't like
Μία ακόμα περιπέτεια του Άλεξ Κρος που απολαμβάνω. Αστυνομική πλοκή, (δύο σίριαλ κίλερς αυτή τη φορά), και πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα σκιαγράφηση όλων των πρωταγωνιστών, συμπεριλαμβανομένων και των ''κακών''. Εννοείται φυσικά ότι υπήρχαν σημεία που έλεγα ότι ''αυτό είναι υπερβολή'' αλλά είναι σπάνιο να μη δηλώσω κάτι τέτοιο σε βιβλίο του είδους. (Σε αντίθετη περίπτωση θα λέγαμε ίσως ότι έλλειπαν οι απρόοπτες εξελίξεις και ήταν υποτονικό μάλλον).Πρόσφατα τσίμπησα και το τρίτο βιβλίο του Κρος, οπότε μπορώ να συνεχίσω και τις περιπέτειές του με την κανονική τους σειρά.
