https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/812442.Harry_and_the_Lady_Next_Door
The choice of yellow and olive used here is beautiful and surprisingly effective.
The illustrations are very animated and will appeal to dog owners who will identify with this dogs antics.I was attracted also my the sheet music on the front page and the tuba on the back, I was hoping for a bit more of a musical theme to the book and felt the story was slightly lacking, however I think young children will really enjoy this and find Harry fun and lovable.
One thing I really liked was the fact that the story was divided into three sections.
The book fit very well in my text structure unit, when learning about problem and solution.
The book was divided into three parts, and in each part Harry attempted to solve his problem.
The fact that the book was divided into three parts made the three attempts at solving the problem stand out better.
Another thing I liked about the story was that the attempts that Harry made to solve his problem were somewhat humerous to the young students, and kept them interested in the book.
How would you solve this problem?"
Finally, the lady sings in a singing contest and when all the other contestants are scared by two frogs which leap out a watering can Harry had placed behind the lady, she won and was sent far away to perfect her singing.Instructional Ideas:pre-reading: Ask students to bring up prior knowledge about pets and dogs.
While reading, have students use their strategies, such as looking at pictures, noticing the repetitive language and events, and predicting future events.Post-readingHave students write their own stories of more of Harry's adventures using the same characters and setting.Ask students to be quiet for a minute, or whatever time you see appropriate, and listen to the sounds around them.
A great book for kids who are reading level 3 or 4 and are pretty much independent readers.
My son liked this so much he read the whole thing in one sitting, but as many of you know, I'm a voracious reader, so it's only natural that my kids will (probably) be as well.
Besides, if he reads extra than his daily reading, he gets "credits" toward fun things to do or special time with mom and dad.
I loved reading him as a kid and it's fun to see my 5 yr old son get into him as well.
A surprisingly useful book for a kid who doesn't like loud noises. It has also fueled his enthusiasm for the tuba. He has now decided that besides the tuba, the fiddle and gourd harp also say "oom-pa."
That cute little dog tries everything to get his opera-singing neighbor lady, who sings quite loud and high, to stop making such a racket that Harry doesn't enjoy. A solution is found in the end, but Harry does try many things before a happy ending is found.
It was nice that Harry got to hear some other music besides just loud noise. And I think that he did like the lady next door but he wanted to hear low and soft music once in awhile. Besides big voices.
I love Harry (remember him "the dirty dog?"). I love the old fashioned adorable illustrations.
I have a vague memory of this book. I remember that the pictures are cute and the storyline funny.
Yes, the lady next door that was very loud! Good story!
I love the illustrations, and the story is funny. Easy for a young reader to read. I also did all the singing and sound effects myself, which amused me greatly. My kids gave me mixed reviews on my singing.Amateurs.
This story felt a little too long and is somewhat convoluted. I like Harry the Dirty Dog better than this one.
It is about a dog named Harry and its neighbor (the lady next door).
Harry does not like the lady next door because she sings high and loud that the noise hurts its ears.
Harry makes the band go under the lady's window and it does not work either.
Finally, one day the lady participates in a contest and Harry finds a watering can and puts it on the floor behind her, when the lady starts singing some frogs come out of the can and everybody runs away except for the lady next door.
Harry hates the sound of the lady who is always singing next door.
She even comes over to give a concert at Harry's house!
He hears all kinds of soft, low sounds, so he thinks he ought to bring them on over to the neighbor ladies' house so that she can learn how to sound better.
But when the lady wins a singing contest, she gets to go far away to study music!
Harry thinks the sound of the boats horn as she floats away is the most beautiful goodbye song he has ever heard.
Zion, G. (1988). Harry and the Lady Next Door. New York: HarperCollins Publishers. The illustrations just capture your attention when you begin reading. The author writes about how a dog and the neighborhood deal with a lady next door that can sing really high. The funny book shows the many ways that the dog exhausts to try and stop the lady from singing. The dog discovered that no matter how hard he tried to change something he had no control over, it all worked itself out at the end.
I liked watching Mr. Mint get so excited about reading this book! Great I Can Read book, we split the book up in 2. Read first half in the morning then the other in the afternoon as not to overwhelm Mr. Mint as a struggling reader. After we were done the story was awesome, wholesome, nice to see Mr. Mint love it. Although Harry the dog causes a bit of a ruckus, Harry is adorable, easy to forgive. I would recommend this book to mom's with new or struggling readers.
I love the Harry books and this one is no exception! Give this to your beginning reader. They'll enjoy it immensely. Reading Level: 1st - 3rd grades**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Funny story about Harry and his frustration with the loud, singing lady next door. It's a good story to read aloud with children and has a bit of an old-fashioned feel, as it was originally written 50 years ago. We have enjoyed reading all of the Harry books together.
Enjoyable bedtime story.I love trying to make different voices and sounds while reading.And trying to make the HIGH singing lady voice and the the LOW horn sounds had my kids in a fit of giggles.This was a fun bedtime story.
got this book as a special treat for DS and it's super cute...poor Harry has to deal with his obnoxiously loud singing neighbor and has lots of ideas to get 'rid' of her! DS has loved reading this aloud to me!
Harry can't stand the lady next door's singing—he prefers low sounds—but she just won't stop. Happily, everything turns out perfectly for everyone in the end.Even though I'm an opera fan, I found this story funny. My two-year-old liked it too.
A very fun little book! It cracked us up as we read about Harry's adventures.
W0w. Ouch. Not a positive story.
Classic kids book. Clever, funny stuff.
Harry is a lovable dog. He has his own adventures! Easy to read, big pictures good for a read-aloud! Enjoyable!
This was one of Harrison's favorite books as a child. I still have the book and read it to Shelby. Her favorite HArry book is Harry the Dirty Dog.
The "An I Can Read Book" series has never failed to amaze me. The dog, Harry, is very intelligent and comes up with brilliant plots to drive his neighbor out of town.
Harry books are the best. In this one, Harry must deal with the singing lady next door.
"The lady next door sang. She sang high and loud. When she sang Harry's ears hurt." How can you not love a book that starts out like that?
A cute story in the series about Harry the Dog. These 'good ole stories' are sometimes the most fun to read.
