https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869981-julius
I loved The way how Du Maurier told the story.
It was very vivid and I felt like I was there.
It got a three because I did not like the characters in the story at all.
What particularly got under my skin was the way how he courted Rachel, the woman who became his wife.
He treated her like an object that needed to be possessed and not as a person.Julius’s daughter wasn’t very likeable either.
She treated her mother like dirt and thought her father very stupid, but played along.
The story begins in 1860 in France as a young half-Jewish Julius learns the ways of selling in the local market place - always getting more than you give away - "something for nothing." As the Prussians invade France the Lévys head for the relative safety of Paris, although unforeseen events send Julius and his father heading for the relative safety of Algiers.
However, if you want a look at something besides the "romantic suspense" of Du Maurier's later works I'd look this one up.
I've read all of du Maurier's books and I adore her twisted, sick, and unpredictable polt-twists and lack of sympathy and trust for any of her characters.
That said, this book scared the living hell out of me, much more than The Birds, Rebecca, etc.
This story offers a glimpse into the mind and soul of a true sociopath on his journey from poverty in Paris to becoming one of the richest men in London.
Uhhhh, child hookers in Algeria?
One swindle after the other?
Choosing a wife because she'd be a nice backdrop to his life?
I love you, Daphne du Maurier.
Julius is not a sympathetic character -- in fact he's very nearly sociopathic -- but du Maurier's skill in painting his ambition, his intelligence, his almost uncanny business skill, and his obsession with ownership are remarkable.
I don't know whether the author meant to convey any particular message by this; certainly the novel also plays into the stereotype of Jews being good at business, but I don't think it was meant in a negative way.As in Rebecca, du Maurier also shows herself a master of atmosphere, the sounds and smells and tastes that make up a time and place.
Really really enjoyed this. The main character is appropriately sinister for a Du Maurier novel, but clever and engaging as well as being decidedly unlikable. This has to be one of the few books I still found really enjoyable despite having a strong disliking for the main character, Julius. It reminds me of The Picture of Dorian Grey, especially the fourth part.
Absolutely loved this book - it traces the life of Julius Levy, born into poverty on the outskirts of Paris in 1860 to a Catholic mother and a Jewish father, from childhood to old age.
After the death of his father, Julius leaves for England where he starts in a poor job but shows great alacrity in making money and a success of his life.
Julius is not a nice person by any stretch of the imagination and does some awful things but I was strangely drawn to this story of his life, one of never-ending success from a material point of view but never making true friends or maintaining 'proper' relationships, particularly with his wife and teenage daughter Gabriel.
Daphne Du Maurier certainly enjoyed writing about the dark side of human nature.
Julius, the main character in this novel is a quintessential narcissist and a bit of a sociopath.
Du Maurier traces the beginnings of his cold, self absorbed nature from his childhood(the mostly dispassionate disposal of his cat) to the deliberate murder of his only child.
In the final analysis, I agree with Myerson's assessment that Du Maurier was not specifically anti-Semitic, but quite frankly-- the prevalent stereotypes that exist RE: Jews are certainly played up in this novel, there is no denying that.
"The Progress of Julius" is unsettling, engrossing and epic. Classic Du Maurier. Julius rises from a shivering war refugee, selling rats on the grey streets of late nineteenth century Paris, to one of the world's wealthiest men; only the readers get to see what it took for him to get there. His "progress" if you will. It's not pretty. There's murder. Scandal. Quiet desperation. Embarrassment. Ultimately, a life. I loved it.
Bettie's Books
Julius’ Jewish background is constantly alluded to in the most repellent terms and becomes the driving force of his young life.
The question is this: is Du Maurier suggesting that his Jewishness is the cause of his vile actions, or is she suggesting that the inherent prejudices in the late-19th century unfairly trap young people into debilitating ethnic categories, conditioning them to act out the vicious stereotypes that are forced onto their shoulders?
As with every Du Maurier novel I’ve read, this one is also about 40 pages too long, which is unfortunate because the ending is quite obviously telegraphed, and the last chapter is both anti-climactic and predictable.
A very sad story of progress. It seemed very authentic. The characters were very rich. This book was so different from Jamaica Inn. I can't wait to read another by her to see if they're all unique. Apparently there is incest in this book. I completely missed that. Now everything is much sadder and creepier.
"Nor yet did he understand, for a queer puzzled look crept into his eyes, and he would frown his ancient baby frown of an old man; while from the innermost part of his being came the long-drawn pitiful wail that can never be explained, the plaintive cry of a child born into the world who knows not what he wants, the eternal question of the earth to the skies - Who am I?
The sigh of the baby, the sigh of the old man." And it was with these words that I was able to so swiftly and lightly carry myself into the novel, to live the unsettling life of Julius and wonder where and what exactly in his life triggered his unbecoming.
Julius is the third of her novels, and it shows a marked change -- in tone, plotting, writing, and characterization -- from her first two.
I think that it is with this novel that Du Maurier really hints at the measure of her talent.
***The book tells the life story of Julius Lévy, a Parisian whose father is Jewish.
When, finally, inevitably, he murders his beloved daughter whose spirit he cannot break, he is so out of touch with his own feelings that he seems unable to realize what a tragic end to his own life that he has engineered for himself.This is a book, a character, who will long stay with me, and for that alone, I have to give it high marks.
დაფნა დიუ მურიე კლასიკოსებიდან ჩემი ერთ-ერთი ყველაზე საყვარელი ავტორია. როცა მის წიგნს ვიწყებ ვიცი, რომ დიდ სიამოვნებას მივიღებ, მეხსიერებაში დამრჩება, შემეხება და დამაფიქრებს. მას ჩემთვის იმედი არც ერთხელ არ გაუცრუებია და ეს მისი ბოლო წაუკითხავი რომანია. სამწუხაროდ ამის შემდეგ მხოლოდ გადაკითხვაღა დამრჩენია. წიგნი არის სიცოცხლეზე, სიკვდილზე . იმ კითხვებს გვისვამს, რომელიც ბევრს აინტერესებს საიდან მოვიდეთ? რისთვის მოვედით? და სად წავალთ?! ნაწარმოები ჯულიუსზეა, ამბავი მისი ბავშვობიდან იწყება. პატ
როცა მის წიგნს ვიწყებ ვიცი, რომ დიდ სიამოვნებას მივიღებ, მეხსიერებაში დამრჩება, შემეხება და დამაფიქრებს.
მას ჩემთვის იმედი არც ერთხელ არ გაუცრუებია და ეს მისი ბოლო წაუკითხავი რომანია.
ნაწარმოები ჯულიუსზეა, ამბავი მისი ბავშვობიდან იწყება.
არ შემიძლია არ შევადარო დრაიზერის სურვილის ტრილოგიაში მთავარ პერსონაჟ ანტაგონისტს ფრენკ კაუპერვუდს.
ორივე ღარიბები იყვნენ, ორივე გენიოსები, ეგოისტები, მათ მწვერვალს მიაღწიეს, მაგრამ არაფერი არ შეუქმნიათ ისეთი, რომ უკვდავები გამხდარიყვნენ და მათი სახელები ყველა სხვათა შორის ისე გაქრა, თითქოს არც ყოფილან...
არ შემიძლია არ ვთქვა ვგიჟდები დაფნას წერის სტილზე.
მის წიგნებშია მისტიკა, ატმოსფერო, ორიგინალური პერსონაჟები და დიალოგები.
ეს მისი პირველი რომანია, რომელიც ორიგინალში წავიკითხე და მომინდა გადამეკითხა ასე რამდენიმე მათგანი)))
Wow. Just finished my second Du Maurier, written when she was only 24, tracing the life of an extreme egotist from the day of his birth on page one to his death at age 72 in the last line of the last page.
A man who lives for life, dominates every scene, gathers possessions until he's the richest man in England, has no friends, loves nothing, uses and destroys everyone close to him, and dies broken and alone.
Sounds like a 300 page cliche, but in Du Maurier's hands, it is riveting.
Very different for Du Maurier and not to be read if you're expecting anything like Rebecca or House on the Strand. Dark, but not in the romantic, eerie way that her Cornwall books are. It reminds me more of Somerset Maugham -- slightly unlikable characters with ambiguous morals fighting for a foothold in life. And, that's ok because I love Maugham. I just need to adjust my thinking around this story and get back to it.
The writing is beautiful, it's a pure joy to read Du Maurier! Although there's nothing about Julius that is likeable (rather the opposite), his life story is a very exciting one and the development of his character very interesting.
It's usually hard to like a book that contains an unlikable protagonist, at least for me.
Julius is a child during the Franco-Prussian war, lives in poverty, loses his beloved grandfather & he & his father are forced to leave the family home.
He witnesses his also unlikable father murder his unfaithful mother: is this what causes him to be such an awful person?
He ends up in Algiers, a child alone, when his father dies, struggling to survive, hanging out in brothels.
The story continues in this vein, with Julius ruthlessly amassing a fortune but never treating anyone well.
Dobra večer svima.
Evo počelo i moje omiljeno godišnje doba.
Sunčanje , kupanje ali i dobra knjiga da me opusti uz šum valova.
Zato vam ovoga puta predstavljam novu pročitanu knjigu autorice Dephne du Maurier inače autorice svima nam poznate Rebece.
Ovoga puta to je knjiga Život Juliusov.
Knjiga je jednostavno napisana sa dobrim sadržajem.
Ova knjiga vodi nas kroz život židova Juliusa koji je anbiciozan , sebičan i može se reći i nemoralan.
Što će biti na kraju sa Juliusom neću vam reći.
Ovo mi je inače prvi dodir sa njenim romanima i baš mi se svidjela.
Veliki pozdrav do sljedećega puta.
Picked up this book from a "free" library rack.
Never heard of this story, but read Jamaica Inn a number of years ago and really enjoyed it.
I must say that I wasn't too excited for about the first 20 pages, then I was interested for the next 20.
Then I was hooked for the rest of the story.
Written in the 1930's, this story is as relevant now as it was then.
If I didn't know better, I would have thought it was loosely based on Donald Trump.
This novel deserves 5 stars in my opinion.It gets progressively more interesting and never lets up.
This book was written by a young Daphne Du Maurier in 1933. Only her third novel. It is shocking in that the premise is most unusual--rather like reading Dostoevsky. The protagonist is an awful, terrible guy. You wonder what experience Du Maurier had that would allow her to even imagine such a devil. I kept reading because I kept thinking there would be an eventual transformation. But he just became "more so." The ending is not conventionally satisfying: he does not get his just desserts. So, rather too realistic! But, a daring piece and insightful. There are sociopaths.
Don't read this book if you're in a dark place. Julius follows the rise and fall of a man who has had a difficult upbringing, and is incapable of loving other people. However, despite the foreboding feel throughout the middle, I found this book really absorbing and found it difficult to put down. I can't believe Daphne Du Maurier was my age (26) when she wrote it - so profound and stark. Definitely worth reading.
This is DDM’s third book and she’s developed tremendously. Julius is unlikeable, today we’d probably label him a sociopath or a narcissist. Even so, DDM has made him compelling and faceted in a way her previous characters were not. Of course her writing style is still what makes this shine, her words just flow through your brain effortlessly. She’s definitely showing her creepy gothic skills developing here. Can’t wait for next month’s DDM Project read!
Chilling but gripping at the same time. I am delighted to have found a new du maurier.
The portrayal of Julius as an unscrupulous, despicable and selfish person is handled very well by Daphne du Maurier, even though sometimes it's quite exaggerated and implausible. Julius only cares for himself, and his rise to success and riches is meteoric, and can only happen in fiction. His relationship with his daughter is dwelt on very subtly, perhaps because it was ahead of the time. But the main point of the story is his character and the effects of his actions on his own and others' lives. An engrossing read.
Daphne du Maurier does a fantastic job of writing a beautiful life story for a central character who is essentially a high functioning sociopath.
From a young age it is clear that Julius doesn't care for others he is completely self centred and his only concern in life is Julius, while this means he can become a highly successful business man it leaves his personal life in a mess.
Julius is a highly unlikeable character and you cant help wishing he will get his comeuppance.
The strength of this novel lies in du Maurier's poetic writing and her beautiful descriptions of the places Julius finds himself in.
My year of reading du Maurier.Review and Reader’s guide Q & A coming soon.
Julius by Daphne du Maurier is a dark, gripping and disturbing tale of a man’s life, set in France, Algeria and England from 1860 to 1932, from the Franco-Prussian War to the Industrial Revolution.
Julius Lévy was born to a peasant family in France, the son of a Frenchwoman and a Jew. Living in the rural village Puteaux with his mother, father and maternal grandfather, he learned ambition and a talent for selling at the family market stall.
Julius was aware of power and discrimination early in life, as his strong-willed grandfather scorned his father Paul for being a weaker man and a Jew.When Prussian soldiers marched on Puteaux, the family fled for Paris.
This was an interesting story about the entirety of a man's life.
He witnessed the tragic death of his grandfather, the murder of his mother, and the illness that claimed the life of his father-all by the time he was 15.
He became a wealthy, popular man throughout England by the time he was 30.
I read this book quickly and was reluctant to put it down.
This is a perfect weekend read.I have read 2 other books by Daphne du Maurier; Rebecca, and The Glass Blowers.
I have another of Ms. du Maurier's books on my shelf.
This is my second Du Maurier book.
Some of the things that happen in the story are quite shocking and at the same time not shocking at all considering who is doing them.I think this book will have me thinking for a long time, and I imagine that although her books are often classified as suspense, most of her stories will probably tend to do that.I remember telling someone that I thought Hitchcock should have had her write a movie script for him only to find out that one of her stories, 'Birds' was made into a Hitchcock movie.
