https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7783.Oh_Say_Can_You_Say_
OFTEN adults can enjoy reading books meant for children.
I loved reading Dr Seuss's "Oh Say Can You Say".Dr Seuss says on the cover itself "Oh my brothers!Oh my sisters!These are TERRIBLE TONGUE TWISTERS!"Mohsin Maqbool says that they are interesting too at the same time.You will enjoy reading them.
And you will be shocked too like the green parrot on the cover.
By the way, he should have been on Guinness Book of World Records many years back for being the first parrot to read a book or rather one containing tongue twisters.The illustrations provided by Dr Seuss are as amazing as they were in "The Cat in the Hat".
As He Gobbled The Cakes On His Plate, The Greedy Ape Said As He Ate, The Greener Green Grapes Are, The Kenner Kean Apes Are, To Gobble Green Grape Cakes, There Great!
There was much laughter when I first read this book.
The tongue twisters are very difficult for young readers but I had problems trying to keep a consistent rhythm.
Just try reading each twister faster than you usualy read and I guarantee you do not make it through to the end without a mistake, at least not on your first run through.
This book is a keeper.
Luckily, the library gave us two copies, one nested within the other, so I think we will keep one.
Not really, but obviously the thought crossed my mind.
Library thieves should be drawn and quartered.
Tongue-twisters galore. I love it.
This book is EVIL! Pure evil I tell you. And when you get through it without a slip up it feels a bit like winning Minesweeper on advanced.
He cooks fish." I got this book at the second hand store.
Mama bought it for me because I saw a copy of The Fox in Socks by Dr. Seuss in my buddy's car.
I really wanted that book.
But, this book seemed to have rhymes like The Fox in Socks.
Mama thought I would like it.
Papa read it to me a few times in the car on the way home.
Rather than go into the store with Mama, I sat in the car with Papa to read it.
I usually like to go on adventures.
I love this book of tongue-twisters by Dr. Seuss because it is so fun to watch students try to say these! Students become engrossed in the book and love trying out new phrases every time. This book teaches students about phonemic awareness and just makes reading fun. Students get to practice phrases with repeated beginning sounds. I may read this with our word of the week and possibly have students come up with their own tongue-twisters as an extension activity.
This collection of tongue twisters from Dr. Seuss is sure to be loved by kids everywhere as they attempt a tongue twister, yet alone a Dr. Seuss tongue twister with words that don't exist. The fun bright colors are typical Dr. Seuss along with the usual font and typical characters. Dr. Seuss takes his typical style of writing rhymes to a whole new level with these fun tongue twisters that even I had a difficult time with!
I don't know how many people really appreciate how much of a genius Dr. Seuss was. Yes, he wrote books for children and I love them when I was 6 and 7. But when I pick one now and read it... WOW! He had some really deep ideas within his quirky rhymes! Dr. Seuss is a MUST for all people of all ages. If you can't appreciate his works, there is something really wrong with you. I can think of no other author who can cater to as wide an audience as Dr. Seuss.
My tongue feels like jello and my brain gets a cramp every time I read this to my kids! lol
Catching up on my Goodreads goal in the local bookstore. Always love Dr. Seuss!
What a tounge twister!! But still made me laugh!!! Dr Seuss is one of my favorite children's author!!
The green parrot is asking us.  Oh, Say Can You Say?  And I would say.. NO WAAYYYYYYY!!! :D Those tongue twisters were seriously crazy formations of Dr. Seuss' brilliantly talented mind! I don't know how even in those times he was so intelligent enough to invent new wacky words for every new book that he was planning to write. Hats off to him!This was again a fun read, though I had problems in reading it quickly but had a laugh trying it :) Why don't anyone of you try reading this book? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GYE4S...
Tongue twisters. Actually made me laugh.
Read this since the copy of Mr. Brown Can Moo! Can You? that I got inter-library loan was scribbled all over on the pages.Unfortunately, I had a lot of younger children stay over from lap time, so they were a little young and the class who I gear the program for came late and were stuck in the back, so weren't as involved. However, all the parents got a kick out of it and they were laughing out loud.
So much fun to read! Full of silly tongue twisters. My 4yr old had fun trying to keep up with what I was saying. We heard a few of these previously on a Dr. Seuss CD that we checked out from the library. So, we enjoyed hearing them again (this time by mom) in book form. This will be a good book to return to once my 4yr old is reading then she can have a go at it. No doubt with fun and silliness! :)
That was so amazingly fun!!! The last time my tongue had so much fun was the last time I read Fox in Socks out loud. These books cannot be read normally. They MUST be read aloud, no exception. Even if you are reading to no one and there are lots of people present. Such a sheer delight!!! Nothing like a good Dr. Seuss tongue twister to jumpstart the day. =D
Easily my favorite Seuss book since my own grade school years. As a former Grade One teacher, this was the Bible of my classroom bookshelf though the twisters had become more recitations than readings. A must-have for your child's collection.
Great fun to read alot because the faster you go, the funnier it is to say--and to hear--gets the nursery crowd giggling...which may not be what you want in a bedtime story but for a couch read it is great
This Dr. Seuss book is also aimed for preschoolers. It teaches how to rhyme and talks about many things. It mentions fresh fish, dinosaurs, bed spreaders, ape cakes grape cakes, money, and ducks. The topics it talks about have rhymes to them that follow into other subjects but still stay on track.
As a former Community Actress and Vocal Performance Major, I found this book to be very intelligent. It teaches enunciation and diction, while remaining laughable and silly for children's amusement. My four year old boy loves this book!-Chelsea Merkley
I liked this book a lot.
This book is about a parrot named Hooey reading through a bunch of tongue twisters.
This book does not really have a plot, it is basically just a bunch of unrelated tongue twisters on each page.
Occasionally the parrot will talk to the audience and say how hard it is to read through the book.
I did not really enjoy this book because it was hard to read through all the tongue twisters.
They would have fun reading the tongue twisters aloud to each other and trying to get through them without messing up.
I wanted to diversify the Dr Seuss titles that we read and picked up some more from the library.
"Mr Brown Can Moo!
Can You?" was easy for me to read and Miss 3 copied some of the words but she got bored before we got to the end.
I thought she might like 'Oh Say Can You Say" but she wasn't too fussed and it wasn't the easiest book for me to read (definitely fun at first but an effort to read the entire book in one sitting).
They're all sitting on her library book shelf and she hasn't asked me to read any of them to her again.
Dr. Seuss is awesome! His works practically shaped me as a person, and have definitely had a lasting effect on what I enjoy now. I mean, this book basically feels like  Finnegans Wake for kids...which is a pretty odd description, but HEY! this is a pretty odd book! So if a reader writer wishes rightly for raspberry rhymes and lung lasting lung longing laughs lying, lacking lulls, then that reader writer better piper a perfect place packed of puffy puffs puffing puffly-pufully pupping pups! Whatever that means.
Beginning readers are sure to giggle over the absurd rhyming tongue twisters in this hilarious vocabulary-building book. Grown-ups are encouraged to read these rhymes aloud to their young readers and prepare themselves for non-stop laughter as the youngsters learn that reading can be more fun than they ever imagined.Highly recommended.
Genre: poetryReading Level: elementary I didn’t find this book to be very good. I doubt I will have It on my shelf. The story is just all over the place and I feel as if I had no idea what was going on. Although, the story doesn’t flow, the story does teach children about words and that’s important.
Genre: poetryReading Level: elementary I didn’t find this book to be very good. I doubt I will have I️t on my shelf. The story is just all over the place and I feel as if I had no idea what was going on. Although, the story doesn’t flow, the story does teach children about words and that’s important.
This is the 1st time I've read this Dr. Seuss book. I really enjoyed it. I love tongue twisters and had a laugh trying to say these smoothly without stopping. Wasn't successful for half of these let me tell ya hahaI also love the side notes which are meant to encourage the kids if they get frustrated trying. Nice little touch 😊
Dr. Seuss always has funny, weird looking images and rhymes in his books. Although I enjoyed the book, I probably wouldn't read this to small children for the fact that they may not really understand the meaning behind many of the words used. The images are also too small for whole group but maybe one on one with a particular child who really does enjoy Dr. Seuss books.
This was one of my favorite Dr. Seuss books before having kids. I didn't expect my kids to like it until they were quite a bit older, but Arthur did.AGE 1-2This has long been one of Arthur favorite books for me to read to him. It seems like it would be way over his head and NOT age appropriate, but he picks it out a lot. I think he likes the sound of the tongue twisters spoken aloud.
