https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498389.The_Devil_s_Star
Harry’s resignation/asked to leave papers are ready to be signed, but the city of Oslo needs Harry to step up one more time and catch this killer before that she-demon starts riding everyone’s chest.
Being paired with Waaler is more than enough motivation for Harry to stow the sauce and start being the brilliant detective they need him to be, but with a convoluted case that is baffling the force, Harry can’t help but start to care again.
Jo NesboI saw a trailer for the new movie starring Michael Fassbender called Snowman, based on the Jo Nesbo book.
he has this tendency to suddenly kinda stray from the story and go into what feel like stream of consciousness rambles that only kinda make sense in context to the book.
In these rambles, he will suddenly get excessively specific – using terms for things the average person is not likely to use in daily conversation.
And, even if Sven would not depart after the deeds were done and Mary continued on her journey to salvation or damnationThe lamb was sure to go”So, thanks Mr. Nesbo for entertaining, confusing, and disturbing me all at the same time.
He keeps the tension coming not just by superbly crafted stories and interesting villains but also by the relationships between his main characters, the victims, the witnesses and the suspects.Harry Hole, like all the best anti-heroes, lives and works in a gritty world.
There are other Hole mysteries: The Batman, The Cockroaches, The Redeemer and The Leopard that are available outside of the U.S. Batman and Cockroaches are the first and second books in the series but when HarperCollins decided to publish Nesbo in the U.S. they opted to start with book three.
Then a woman is found ritually murdered in her apartment and, short-handed, Harry's boss has no choice other than to assign Harry to the case, even though Harry is clearly impaired.
To make matters worse, Harry is assigned to work the case in tandem with another detective whom he hates.Harry assumes that this is the last case he will ever work and so pulls himself together, at least enough to make an effort.
Five days after the initial murder, a second woman goes missing and seems clearly to be the victim of the same killer.
The Devil’s Star is a demonstration of a talented writer hitting his stride and making it look easy.Nesbo’s creation of Harry Hole, a brilliant investigator but also an alcoholic and a difficult team member, made him a writer to watch and invited comparisons with his wildly successful fellow Scandinavian writer Stieg Larsson.
Nesbo graduates from journeyman status in this novel, The Devil’s star is a taut, relentless thriller filled with intriguing characters, fast paced action and all the elements of a first-rate mystery.Nesbo follows Hole and the divisive team of Oslo investigators to solve a serial killer’s homicidal pattern before he strikes again.
I don't read Nesbø for the plot.
Now I'm on book five and I've found that I, at some point in time, came to truly care about Harry and all the people in his life.
I wish them all the best, but knowing Harry, the best isn't laying in wait for anyone who's more than a passing acquaintance of Inspector Hole, whose name is pronounced who-lay, you gutter-minded fish fucker.I still haven't read the first two books in this series and I still do not feel like I'm missing anything, even though Harry mentions the case that occurred in Sydney in every book I've read so far.
A serial killer is murdering people around Oslo, taking a finger from each body and leaving a star-shaped diamond.
Detective Harry Hole is assigned to work the case with a colleague he despises, Detective Tom Waaler.
Harry is convinced Waaler is a dirty cop who murdered Harry's former partner, but he can't prove it.
The plot is complex and the killer is wily but Harry and Waaler, no matter their differences, work well together.
As usual with Nesbø 's books, there are plenty of engaging characters, including Harry's police colleagues and friends as well as the suspects, witnesses, and interviewees in the case.
Excuse me while I put on a helmet and some body armor...see some of my friends here really like this book and this series, and some were apparently waiting to see what I was going to say.Well, I wasn't overly thrilled with it.
(That's a quote from the book.)He goes along (till the climax of course) with the "go ahead and fire me" attitude we all love so much in our protagonists who are also burned out while being all in all sort of blah anyway.I followed the book along, and I'm sorry people but I was frequently bored.
So, if you like the book, I'm happy for you...really, enjoy.
In Oslo, our hero, the very, very human Inspector Harry Hole, is trying to survive his alcoholism one day at a time, or is that one bottle at a time?
A good portion of the fun here is in trying to figure out whodunit along with Harry.
And although the story is set in Oslo, it seemed to me that there was not enough local color to make the siting compulsory.
Harry is a very engaging hero, someone you can root for and the crimes are a fun challenge.
Enjoy.ps - This is the fifth in Nesbo's Harry Hole series.
Here's the thing about the recent popularity of Scandinavian writers and if you're a Nordic Thriller aficionado you couldn't care less about the distinction: the novels are depressed, somber, filled with ennui, a lack of humor, with flawed characters if not suffused with a strong tendency towards determinism; in short, whether you're reading Stieg Larsson, Henning Mankell, or Jo Nesbo you are likely reading Literary Naturalism.
Jo Nesbø is one of the best writers of Scandinavian crime fiction out there today.
summary, no spoilers: Set in Oslo, Devil's Star features Detective Harry Hole, whose life started zooming out of control when his friend and fellow detective, Ellen Gjelten was murdered while working a case.
Harry has spent much of the time since in an alcoholic stupor, neglecting his work to try to catch Ellen's killer, and putting his personal life in the trash.
Harry Hole is one of my favorite crime fiction characters, but Nesbø doesn't stop with him.
Exactly what I wanted from the dénouement of their highly entertaining confrontation over the past three books.Between that and a Harry Hole who has spiralled further into despondency and alcohol abuse - not to mention his ever-fracturing relationship with Rakel and his desperate battle to get answers - Nesbo is on top form in this one.
He of course throws in the usual murder(s) of the week - and the case is just as smart, twisty and fiendish as ever - but the Hole/Waaler battle and descriptions of Harry's battles with his own demons are where The Devil's Star excels.Nesbo is not your run-of-the-mill, ten-a-penny thriller writer.
A good murder mystery - would have been better if more concise and focused.
More murders follow - and they are all cruel and brutal, with a finger being severed in each case.
Harry Hole is in a slump - his marriage is in trouble, he has a severe drinking problem and has no interest in the police force.
But twists are in store.Overall, this is a good murder mystery.
However, it struggles over several pages to develop the story.
And yet, the theme of the story is a positive, making the book worth a read.My rating: 3.5 / 5.
Harry Hole is a mess ... but you keep rooting for him anyway ... he has great enemies, and he usually prevails ... if not in the current book, then the next ... whatever it is, even if the details are sometimes disgusting, Jo Nesbo has figured out how to keep me turning pages
This is the first Jo Nesbo book I've read — and it will definitely not be the last. The Devils Star is a good read with a thoughtful plot and believable characters. Harry Hole, the main character works to solve the mystery of a serial killer. But at the same time he's also dealing with a screwed up personal life and the dark suspicion that his colleagues may be involved in murderous criminal activities of their own.
Δεν έχω λόγια να το περιγράψω, ο Νέσμπο είναι μαεστρία στην δημιουργία σασπένς, ανατροπών, έντονης δράσης και απρόβλεπτων εξελίξεων!
It’s part of the Harry Hole series, but I’m not sure which number it is because in America they don’t come out in the order first published.
All the other police are completely sober and clever, but they can’t solve the crime like Harry can.
Plus it didn’t matter, because when the police finally catch the killer there are still 130-some pages left in the book so you know THAT’S NOT RIGHT.
The killer is leaving these star shaped diamonds on the victims and there’s pentagrams at the crime scenes.
And it’s not like he’d have to know the whole history, right?
Where would we be in detective fiction without these screwups in private life but brilliant investigators otherwise?
Harry Hole when he isn’t investigating is seemingly either blotto or on his way to a bar.
Harry’s my kind of cop.If this is a typical Jo Nesbø novel, sheesh have I waited too long before reading him.
This is crime fiction at its best.
Just when you think the obvious is going to happen it doesn’t.
Or something happens that you least expect.
But it’s always plausible and fits within the framework of the novel.
I strongly recommend this to anybody who enjoys a compelling crime novel.
I might have waited a little too long to review this book because my memory is coming up fogged out. Let’s see if we can jump start the ol’ noggin: Harry Hole…booze…screwed up love life…murder... Okay, I for sure did like this read. I think I liked it even more than the previous books in the series which seems to be the trend with this author’s work. The further down the rabbit hole I fall the more I like the scenery as it passes. It pulls me in and holds my attention to the very end and I am no
I think I liked it even more than the previous books in the series which seems to be the trend with this author’s work.
Which is definitely a plus in my book because what fun is it to always correctly predict the ending way before you get there?This read was the continuation of a previous thread with Harry Hole still trying to solve one murder in particular as others happen around it.
Can he maintain a decent relationship with any one human being for longer than a minute?Even though the above synopsis is the basic premise to all of the books I have read so far in this series, I am still totally in and can’t wait to see what kind of “pickle” Harry finds himself in next.
Το πρωτο απο τα τεσσερα βιβλια του συγγραφεα που μπορω να πω οτι μου κρατησε αμειωτο το ενδιαφερον ως το τελος , εκοψα ενα αστερι γιατι καταλαβα αμεσα το δολοφονο, σιγουρα θα διαβασω και τα υπολοιπα της σειρας , αν και δεν ξεπερνα τον Μανκελ κανεις στη λιστα μου ....
Ας είμαστε ειλικρινεις, η περιληψη θα μπορουσε να ειναι: "Ο Χαρι Χόλε βλεπει τη μπογια να στεγνώνει στον τοιχο του ΚΑΙ ΕΠΙΤΕΛΟΥΣ ΕΡΧΕΤΑΙ ΤΟ ΤΕΛΙΚΟ ΞΕΚΑΘΑΡΙΣΜΑ ΜΕ ΤΟΝ ΠΡΙΓΚΙΠΠΑ" και θα το διαβαζα, τοσο πολυ ηθελα να παρω την καθαρση για το αρκ που χτιζεται τρια βιβλια τωρα.Η κυριως πλοκη με τον κατα συρροή δολοφόνο ειναι λιγο χλιαρη και αυτο βγαζει ΑΠΟΛΥΤΟ νοημα, τοσο ωραια μπορει ο Νεσμπο να σου παιξει με τη συνταγη του whodunnit για να σε κανει να γουσταρεις.
said I have to read him, Jo Nesbo and his character, Harry Hole.
Put me in the Caribbean, the South Seas, Hawaii, anywhere there is beach and palm trees and I'm happy.
But cold, dreary weather, not so happy.
Where it's a heat wave at 77 degrees F.But after reading Harry R.'s first review, I thought...ok, Harry, my friend, I'll give your friend Harry Hole a spin.
WHAT a series!Enough said from me.
Our Harry wrote the best review ever written (in my estimation) about Nordic writers and this one in particular, Jo Nesbo, and his excellent creation Harry Hole.
With that said, please read Harry's review.
بل روح حقيقية ابدع الكاتب في خلقها بكلماته.وهذه المزية تفتقر إليها كثير من كتابات أدب الجريمة ..
تماثيل شمع لا روح لها.تبدأ سلسلة الجرائم مع الصفحات الأولى في الرواية بقتل امرأة وجد الضابط "هنري" ماسة حمراء تحت جفنهاعرف فيما بعد أن اسمها "الماس الدموي" لأنه أتي من منجم في أفريقيا يقتتل أهله دومًا لا لأسباب سياسية بل لأسباب مالية ولذلك منع القانون شراء وبيع هذا النوع من الألماس.فكيف حصل عليه القاتل؟ ..
هل هذا ما حدث فعلًا أم أن ذلك من محض خيال "هنري"؟وهل سيتمكن من منع الجريمة الأخيرة قبل وقوعها؟ ..
Οκ. Μπορώ να πω ότι το βιβλίο μέχρι την μέση είναι αξιοπρεπές, αλλά δεν έχει εκείνο το «κάτι» που σε παρασέρνει. Τρεις δολοφονίες, κανένα στοιχείο. Ψάχνεις συνδέσεις. Τίποτε. Μετά την μέση, όμως, μετατρέπεται σε μια ξέφρενη κούρσα. Στα συν βάζω το ότι δεν κατάλαβα τον δολοφόνο. Με χάλασε λίγο που το αστέρι του διαβόλου δεν είχε καμία σχέση με θρησκευτικό στοιχείο- δεν ξέρω γιατί αλλά είχα αυτήν την προσμονή. Τελίκα, το ευχαριστήθηκα και καταλάβα ότι, ναι, μου αρέσει ο Νεσμπο. Πολύ!
Ο Χάρι ειναι αποκαρδιώμμενος και το έχει ρίξει στο ποτό. Μια νέα γυναίκα βρίσκεται δολοφονημένη και λόγω καλοκαιρινών αδειών, μπαίνει στο παιχνίδι της αναζήτησης του δολοφόνου. Με την ανακάλυψη και δεύτερου γυναικείου θύματος, το παιχνίδι "χοντραίνει". Τότε, εκεί που οι άλλοι σταματούν, ο Χάρι βλέπει την άκρη και αρχίζει να ξετυλίγει το νήμα. Πολλοί οι άμεσοι ή έμμεσοι εμπλεκόμενοι, γρήγορος ρυθμός πλοκής και εξελίξεις που δεν σταματούν, συνθέτουν άλλη μια περιπέτεια του δημοφιλούς επιθεωρητή.Το απόλαυσα!!!4,5 αστέρια
I am so enjoying this series and Harry Hole is fast becoming one of my favourite heroes.
However he is so smart he can still solve the most intricate crime and bring home the baddy.
In fact the baddy is so bad that his rather horrific end is quite pleasurable!
If you have not read a Harry Hole book yet then you must but don't start with this one as you really need to know his background to appreciate this book fully.
A great read and highly recommended.
Ωραία σκηνοθεσία , έξυπνοι φόνοι και η λύση της τριλογίας Βολερ (η οποία δεν με ικανοποίησε ηθικά αλλά τουλάχιστον ήταν μια κάποια λύση). Απ την άλλη, ακόμα μια φορά απογοητεύτηκα με το δολοφονο/κίνητρο. Επαναλαμβανεται. Τόσο μυαλό αυτός ο Νεσμπο, τόσο σκηνοθετικά ευφυής.....Και να κολλάει σ'αυτό...Κρίμα! (Ναι προφανώς και δε βρήκα το δολοφονο τελικά !)
Norwegian author Jo Nesbø made a big splash now after Stieg Larsson successful "Millenium trilogy" became publishing phenomenon - since Larsson is sadly deceased,attention focused on another writer from the north of Europe and Nesbø is advertised as "new Stieg Larsson".
I persisted to the end,constantly expecting that something interesting will happen but it didn't and guess what,the killer was exactly the one I suspected from the start.My impression is that publishing world simply needs new Stieg Larsson so now they are building new star but to me this looks exactly like any of the paperback pulp fiction crimi stories sold on the newspapers stand.
First, if you don't know Harry Hole, do NOT start with this one.
(Whether you try to read them in the order they were released in the US or in Europe - which, alas, is completely different - that's another story - but don't start with this one, which, arguably, is # 3 (US) or # 5 (Europe), but I can't confirm any of that).
Nesbo is in full stride for pretty much the entirety of this book, Harry is back in Oslo, and, as a result, the pages fly by, the body count rises, the carnage and tension escalate, potential distraction and feints are frequently introduced, and the whole comes together.
For what makes crime novels so delicious if not the way they make our mind try to put the pieces together?I really liked the protagonist of this novel, the drinking detective, and found him to be a well-rounded character, despite of all his flaws or perhaps, precisely because of them.
I'm sure I wouldn't like to know or work with this high functioning alcoholic (that often turns into a non-functioning drunk in this story) but I loved reading about him.
It all ties pretty well in the end, but I can’t say that it is a great crime novel because I had read better.
