https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34499.Sourcery
The basic over-story is pretty good, as is the action and most of the humor, but there was still swaths of text that felt like it was trying too hard.More funny, more witty, more like Color of Magic than Color of Magic.
It wasn't just Rincewind, who I always loved.
Isn't that odd?Even so, it was mostly pretty awesome as Pratchett usually is.
:)As an afterthought, I was thinking about Rincewind in relations to Pratchett, himself.
I was thinking that maybe Pratchett was Rincewind.
Believe it and move mountains, just like Rincewind.
Or Pratchett.
Pretty classic.

Best one so far!!
(I love Mort, but I can just about recite it at this point; I didn't need to reread it).On the Discworld the eighth son of an eighth son is a wizard and that would normally be the end of that.
Events after that see the Discworld facing the Apocralypse with only Rincewind and his companions to stand in the way.This book is widely acknowledged to be a lesser work in the series, and just from the point of view of reading them one after the other, it's probably seen worse because of how great the previous three books are.
Maybe I am tiring of this series.
Maybe this book really was slow.
It almost felt like the author was following the formula that had worked in previous books and reproducing it mechanically rather than spontaneously.
It reminded me of a musical band that has had a couple of hit songs and decided that since they want to make money, they better reproduce the next song with the exact formula.
I may be tiring of this series.
It could also be that this author had periods where he lacked inspiration, or his mind wasn't completely in his writing, but he pushed through and wrote anyway.
That's what this book felt like to me.
2.5 stars.I hate rating this low, but I have to be honest. I spent more time counting off pages to completion than I did on reading it.There were some really funny parts and snippets of awesome. But in the end, it just wasn't connecting with me. It took me a month to finish. Ugh...Still, I certainly didn't dislike it. I'm just hoping to get more hooked on the series before too much longer....
Magic and some spoofing off the Arabian Nights.
But it was still funny, and I found some favorite bits to quote:“I meant,” said Ipslore bitterly, “what is there in this world that truly makes living worthwhile?”Death thought about it.CATS, he said eventually.
CATS ARE NICE.“It’s vital to remember who you really are.
It’s very important.
They always get it wrong.”“If failure had no penalty success would not be a prize.”“I’m not going to ride on a magic carpet!” he hissed.“I’m afraid of grounds!”“You mean heights,” said Conina.
“And stop being silly.”“I know what I mean!
It’s the grounds that kill you!”
Mislim da mi je do sada ovo ubedljivo najduhovitija Pračetova knjiga o Disksvetu. Fenomenalan i dalje oduševljava!
Step forward Rincewind, prize coward and once more the Disc's unlikely saviour, with the help of the hairdressing daughter of Cohen the Barbarian, The Luggage and Nigel, first son of a Greengrocer but barbarian in training.
But after five books that almost all feature him in some way I'm pretty much fed up with him and the recycled jokes that go along with him.I remembered the boy wizard Coin as the reason why I disliked this book on first read but this time it became apparent that it wasn't his fault at all, it was Conina and Nigel and Creosote, the pointless threesome that seemed to exist solely as a running joke without driving the narrative.
However, as you will find here, the boy isn't REALLY the problem.Thus we are thrown into a turmoil, a quest to a number of corners of the Discworld with Rincewind, Luggage, Conina and, later, Nijel.
Because though their adventure starts out more or less as a way of running away from the upcoming war, they will have to find a solution or the entire Discworld will be destroyed (not to mention the trouble about the Gods).I don't know what it is, but for some reason Rincewind isn't really all that funny.
3.5 Me reí bastante con esta historia del Mundodisco, es hasta ahora la que mejor describe a Rincewind este "hechicero" que no hace magia, y que intenta huir de todos los peligros que se le presenten, que son insistentes en su vida, pero que en el fondo tiene un gran corazón, cada vez siento mas cariño por este personaje, me hace reír, con su manera, por ejemplo, de querer salvar al mundo del peligroso Rechicero (que posee mas poderes que los dioses) agitando una media con un ladrillo adentro ¿entonces porque no le doy mas estrellas?
Το 'Sourcery' σίγουρα δεν ανήκει στο πάνω ράφι των βιβλίων του Discworld και μοιάζει σαν πισογύρισμα του Pratchett μετά το εξαιρετικό 'Mort', αλλά αυτό δε σημαίνει πως είναι χωρίς θετικά στοιχεία. Στο πλαίσιο του αφιερώματος που κάνω στο PopCode, διαβάζοντας κάθε μήνα [περίπου] και 1 από τα 41 βιβλία του Discworld, ορίστε τι έγραψα για αυτό, το 5ο μυθιστόρημα του φανταστικού κόσμου του Terry Pratchett.Sourcery: ★★★
Why did I give this two stars the first time I read it? I have no idea. The whole thing with the library made me cry. I need a banana. Rincewind faces his most horrible situation yet.A pretty woman and a magic hat.
An entertaining story and the typical, occasional very clever and funny observation about the world and things.^^
The humor in particular is no longer derivative of Douglas Adams but has morphed into a style that is much more incisive and distinctive to Pratchett.The story is similar in many ways to both The Light Fantastic and Equal Rites, but unlike those two earlier entries, this book wraps up its narrative in a tight and very satisfying manner.
The humor and plot to some degree both still rely on an appreciation of fantasy tropes - like both The Light Fantastic and Equal Rites, nothing less than the fate of the world is at stake - but his appeal is already become broader.
Like Mort, this is an early Discworld novel that will probably have some appeal to an audience beyond fantasy fandom.
In the 5th edition to this wonderful series, Pratchett tells the story of a wizard who went against the Lore and had seven sons, all wizards, and then an eighth son who was a sourcerer- being a source of magic.
Once I realized this is what was bothering me, I seemed to start enjoying the book more.
[footnote: The overwhelming majority of citizens being defined in this case as everyone not currently hanging upside down over a scorpion pit]“To find out who ‘he’ is you’ll have to read the book, something you won’t regret doing.
Otra de las cosas que me gustan de la saga de los magos, es Rincewind, porque es un protagonista genial en su torpeza, junto con el Equipaje y sus aventuras, que nos suelen sacar de Ankh-Morpork para recorrer zonas del Disco.
En este libro ya empiezan a ser un poco más frecuentes que en los anteriores y se nota que se va afianzando como parte del estilo de Pratchett.Muy recomendada la saga hasta el momento, y por lo visto, ¡aún me queda lo mejor!
"Despite rumor, Death isn't cruel- merely terribly, terribly good at his job." p.2"It wasn't that he was unaware of the despair and nobility of the human condition.
It was just that as far as he was concerned you could stuff it." p.10"Psst," it said."Not very," said Rincewind, who was in a state of mind where he couldn't resist it, "but I'm working on it." p.37"He examined his conscience.
It said: I'm out of options.
3.5 stars. Pratchett's Discworld books are always entertaining and cleverly written. As such, I enjoyed this one and particularly like the character of Rincewind who is the central figure of this story. That siad, I thought the first two books of this series were so good that I have been a little disappointed that the next 3 books have not, for me at least, been quite as good. I will continue to read them as they are still worth reading, I just hope that I can come across another installment of the series that I can call "special."
No es de mis favoritos, pero tiene mucha sabiduría dentro. No dejéis de leerlo nunca.
The Rincewind books seem to get better and better throughout the discworld series.
This one features some of the best side characters that Pratchett has created, Nijel and Coin among the stand outs, as well as some of the most relentless Tom foolery.
The Luggage has some of its best moments, and really, isn’t it the best character in the whole series?
Then it changed its position slightly, its little legs moving in a complicated tango pattern, and stared at Rincewind.
I’m also fully committed to this series now and I suppose I’m going to have to read the thirty odd damn books.
This was a good fun read (as all the Discworld books are) but it wasn't my favourite in the series.
I feel like Rincewind isn't my favourite character (although I love the Luggage) and so I knew this would only be around a 3*s, but I cannot fault Pratchett for humour and I will always enjoy reading these.
This story focuses on what happens when a Sourcerer is brought into the world to challenge the magicians at the University and all the inevitable chaos that ensues on the Discworld.
It's a romp as ever and contained some very fun moments, but as a whole I felt like it's not my favourite so far.
Another delightful Discworld/Rincewind book. A great mixture of fantasy, comedy, adventure and wit, all put together. I think I will read them all."Silence filled the University in the same way that air fills a hole. Night spread across the Disk like plum jam, or possibly blackberry preserve.But there would be a morning. There would always be another morning."
Because there weren't really any.In addition to being the perfect I'm On Drugs (TM) book, this was the most recent in my project to read all of the Discworld novels in publication order.
Or maybe it's just that I like to feel like a character's adventure is completely self-contained in a single Discworld novel.
Not that Rincewind is a shit character: his noble cowardice and practice instincts for self-preservation lead to hilarity on multiple occasions.In conclusion: maybe read the Discworld books high?
This principle allows for the presence of the wizards as a whole in the Pratchett universe to be non-disruptive, but more broadly is a common theme in the Discworld novels and is true also of the Witches stories in which magical interventions are never without consequences and perhaps also in the politics of Lord Vetinari for whom self restraint is the nature of the exercise of power.Suggestion and assumption have a greater and more successful effect than direct action in these stories.
Executive Summary: This one might be a tie with The Color of Magic as my least favorite of Discworld thus far. Full Review After how much I enjoyed The Light Fantastic I was looking forward to another Rincewind book. I just never got into this one as much. There are once again some great jokes, but many of them felt in one or two parts of the book and then longer stretches where I didn't even chuckle.The plot wasn't terribly engaging. It had potential. The Eighth son of the Eighth son is destine
Executive Summary: This one might be a tie with The Color of Magic as my least favorite of Discworld thus far.
After how much I enjoyed The Light Fantastic I was looking forward to another Rincewind book.
But I guess the execution was just a bit lackluster.Maybe I don't like the Rincewind books as much.
Or maybe I'm getting burned out on Discworld after reading so many in a short period.
I think it's most likely that in a series this large, they can't all be winners.The highlight of the book was Conina.
I've loved almost all the Pratchett books I've read in the past, but coming back to this one was unsatisfying.
Partly because I started to notice the repetition in descriptions (yes the air feels 'greasy' when magic's being used, and yes a surprising number of things feel like a sock or a glove full of something else); but even more so by some of the characters and the ending itself which just seemed to...
And by the end of the story she's meekly submitting to his superior wisdom which he got from reading a guide book for 3 days.
:/Often in Pratchett's books he deliciously turns tropes on their heads to show how ridiculous they are, this wasn't one of them though.
The idea was fantastic. The Sourcerer is the eight son of and eight son... Of an eight son. But the story gets slow and a little boring as it goes on. There are some great laughs and I love the idea of a tower for every magician when they get wild. But still worthy of been read.
Great of course :D Terry Pratchett still the best and forever in our hearts <3
As I slowly make my way through this series (mostly) in order it is nice to pick up a book, and be "oh, this is a Rincewind story". Having not seen him since book 2, it was also nice to have The Luggage back in the picture.This book is centred around Coin (a dangerous sorcerer) and the Unseen University and makes a nice Interlude before book 6 which takes us back to the Witches.Great fun, with Terry Pratchett's unique, albeit, often silly, humour :)
