https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1094335.The_Canary_Murder_Case
Además, se plantea un "misterio de habitación cerrada", que es un subgénero del "murder mistery" que exige un gran ingenio por parte del autor, porque todos sabemos que solo hay tres soluciones posibles y es tarea del escritor esconder lo más posible cuál de ellas es.Es una novela, por tanto, con mucho diálogo (muy ligero, con Vance dando muchos toques de humor, y a tiempos ingenioso), descripciones funcionales (e incluso algún que otro plano dibujado) que se centra mucho en el puzle.
Un "murder mistery" de lo más clásico, vamos.Perfecto para los amantes del género y aquellos que quieren una lectura ligera para pasar el rato.
Philo Vance is a wealthy man-about-town who solves mysteries in his free time, which he has a lot of.
In this case, it is the murder of the "Canary," Margaret Odell, a former Follies girl who was strangled in her apartment.
Philo Vance and his creator, S S Van Dine (Willard Huntington Wright) are both something of an acquired taste.
It was made into a very early talkie (1929) with William Powell (as Philo Vance) and Louise Brooks (as the Canary).
A second Vance movie was filmed in 1933 based on "The Kennel Murder Case" and also starred William Powell as Philo Vance.
Philo Vance is a descendant of Lord Peter Wimsey (aristocratic sort who approaches crime detection as an amateur who thinks he can outsmart the police) and the progenitor of Ellery Queen (just compare the openings of the first books in each series).
What I like about each of these other mystery series -- and what I dislike -- carry over to this series of which this is the second book.I like how the amateurs can see things the police can't.
The aristocratic nature of all three tends to be a put down of the lowly copper on the beat.
When the beautiful, hard-bitten singer Margaret Odell, known as the Canary, is found murdered in her apartment, it seems like the classic locked room mystery. The police, and district attorney Markham, think the death was incidental to a burglary; Philo Vance knows better.
One of the best locked rooms I had read ever.Ingenuity, creativity, learning, psychology in a novel that marked a new era. It can be said that the boom of the mystery novel of the thirties was the result of the success of this novel when it was published (in the late twenties, it pulverized sales data above).At the end of last April, I posted on my blog Mondadori an essay on this novel:http://blog.librimondadori.it/blogs/i...
The pleasure of reading a well written mystery novel cannot be replaced by anything in the world.
A ver está bien, como uno de los primeros libros pioneros en el género de novela negra, aunque es cierto que se ha evolucionado mucho. La trama era lo que viene siendo un capítulo de las series policíacas de ahora, teniendo en cuenta que en su momento fue muy novedoso.A la hora de narrar, tiene un estilo de la época (final del XIX y principios del XX), pero no se hace tedioso y se lee sin muchas complicaciones.
Another oldie found in our inherited library. Overall liked it. The first few chapters were especially intriguing, with a glimpse into that time period which urged me to read more. However, I felt the pacing in the second 2/3 fizzled out a bit. The ending had a unique twist as to how the murder was committed.
This was exactly what I needed it to be: a frothy, light murder mystery with an interesting locked-room premise. It served as an excellent tonic to the heavier history (Morison's The Oxford History of the American People) and political philosophy (The Federalist Papers) that I was reading at the time.
Pura novela negra, en algún momento pomposa por lo “posh” del principal personaje pero de lectura amena y entretenida.
Não me prendeu tanto como o outro do mesmo autor, mas é entretenimento razoável.
❤
will not read one of these books as written by someone from another country
3,5
Death by strangulation of Broadway chorine. Qua mystery, pretty bad, with very creaky solution to its locked-room puzzle, but as a period piece pretty entertaining.
The author and protagonist are pretentious snobs, with the corrupt 1920s NYPD as supporting cast. Bleh.
Synopsis: the "canary" (a singer) is Margaret Odell. She appears to have died in a burglary. Philo thinks it's murder.
He wasn't writing just to make money, and in fact, I read that he was sick and started writing books to occupy his time while bedridden.
But I find him to be layered and interesting because he only wants people to think he's the above, but he's really a deeper character and takes things more seriously than he gives off.The story itself was decent.
I own another Philo Vance book, and I'm looking forward to reading it.
At least I know that I'll get a good story with an interesting amateur sleuth and a decent mystery to figure out.
I'll read at least a couple more to see if they're tolerable, if for no other reason than he was a literary and art critic who wrote some seminal analyses of detective fiction and popular genre novels that I'd like to read.
He felt that he'd irrevocably damaged his credibility by writing popular fiction but given how many of these books he wrote, they must have paid much better.
First of all I have to say I'm usually not a big fan of crime novels.
The best part of the book was Vance sarcasm and reasoning, even though he used way too many French (?) and Latin phrases that I didn't understand.
You could compare Vance and Van with Sherlock and Watson.
The big difference is of course that Watson usually plays a significant role in the stories, while Van just follows Vance around quietly.
There were also some things that were a bit far-fetched (no spoilers), but overall it was a pretty okay crime novel.
Although I do not enjoy this Author as much as my dear Rex Stout or even Ellery Queen, I must say that this was an ingenious novel! I guessed the culprit at about two thirds of the book, but I had not guessed all the intricate details of the proof. As for the ending, it was to be expected when Vance incited Markham to allow the culprit some time... All in all, I enjoy these Philo Vance adventures, although he is a bit convinced intellectually... Maria Carmo,Lisbon 13 February 2017.
And this book was worse than a Scooby-Doo episode in repeatedly drawing attention to the actual culprit with many a throwaway, "Well, there is no way it could be that guy" and "I'm pretty sure we can rule him out."If you are a fan of the murder mystery genre -- of which I am decidedly one; Agatha Christie all day, every day -- you may enjoy seeing an early version of a familiar story.
This book is enjoyable, but forgettable, the literary equivalent of background noise while doing the dishes.A much wordier version of this review has been posted on my blog: http://familiarcreatures.wordpress.co...
Open Road en Español me ha dado una copia electrónica de esta novela a través de Net Galley.
Muchas gracias!Para alguien que se leyó todos los libros de Agatha Christie a los 12 años, me sorprende la cantidad de autores de "whodunits" que no conozco de nada.
Situado en el Broadway de los 20, El Crimen de la Canario es entretenido, y sigue la línea clásica de los libros de crímenes.
Esta traducción al castellano es divertida y amena.
La verdad es que me ha gustado más que cualquier libro de otros autores más conocidos, como Dorothy L.

Unlike the first book, this murder mystery has The Great Philo Vance stymied.
The murdered lass is a star of the stage and wildly popular to her adoring fans, but to the guys she leads on and blackmails?
With each of the suspects having an airtight alibi (don't they always) the culprit remains a mystery (obviously).
Then there's the fact that Vance posits there being two men in the room, when even one was thought to be unlikely is a great twist.
But suffice it to say, Vance is fast joining the likes of Poirot, Marlowe, de Luce, and Holmes as my favorite sleuths.
Genialità, estro, erudizione, psicologia in un romanzo che fece epoca. Si può dire che il boom del romanzo mystery degli anni trenta fu la conseguenza del successo di questo romanzo che quando fu pubblicato (fine anni venti), polverizzò i dati di vendita precedenti.Alla fine dello scorso aprile, ho pubblicato on Blog Mondadori un mio saggio su questo romanzo:http://blog.librimondadori.it/blogs/i...
Although Philo Vance was, it seems, a major inspiration for Ellery Queen and other detectives he fails for me to live up to his reputation upon rereading. When I first read the books I was amused and distracted by the picture of times gone by and behaviours no longer seen. Rereading the books years later I notice how gossamer thin is the mystery at the heart of this book. Had the police been even minimally competent the murderer would have been discovered before Vance had time to show off his special skills.
Second in the Philo Vance series of mysteries.
Very similar to Ellery Queen.
Actress, the "Canary," is murdered in locked room and there is no way anyone could have done it because of the person who sits in the lobby of her apartment complex.
There are four men who had the motive but none seemed to have had the means.
Vance, utilizing luck and music and deduction, proves how and who did the murder.
Would have been a five star but the main two characters talk in such a ridiculous manner at times - will need to go back and look up dozens of words they used.
"The Canary Murder Case" takes you to an earlier time, when men dressed in elegant suits for dinner and everyone smoked with no fear. Philo Vance, though the main character, is not a detective. Instead he is a rich, bored dilettante who is a friend of the District Attorney. The DA takes his friend to the scene of the murder of a stage star, the Canary. Vance solves it using "psychological deduction." It is a locked room mystery.The book is fun to read even set as it is in the early 1920s..
I found the story interesting, overall, but the regular-police-are-so-bumbling bit was overdone and I couldn't stand the main character, Philo Vance. He is very condescending and I think it more likely that his fellow characters would give him a punch on the nose before including them in their investigation. Some have compared Vance to Sayer's Peter Wimsey character, which I disagree with: Wimsey is interested in his fellow human beings whereas Vance is bored by them.
