https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259897.The_Will_of_the_Wanderer
See, it was published a while ago and is fantasy that plunders eastern culture for its inspiration in terms of setting and characters.
But it is written by white people casting their eyes on the culture and I know that these days there is more of a cry for authentic eastern cultures written by people who are actually *of* that culture.The thing is, though, I feel that in a lot of ways this novel is quite enlightened.
MATEO ES EL PERSONAJE MÁS CUQUI PRECIOSO QUE HE CONOCIDO EN MUCHO TIEMPO Y NO HABÍA ESCENA EN QUE NO QUISIESE ABRAZARLE MUY FUERTE Y PROMETERLE QUE TODO IBA A SALIR BIEN.Zohra me ha gustado mucho, sobre todo teniendo en cuenta la fecha en la que está escrito el libro, y Khardan igual (salvo cuando aparece Meryem en escena y deja de pensar con el poco cerebro que le quedaba...
Exacto)En resumen, me ha gustado mucho el planteamiento del libro y cómo han ido jugando con los personajes.
Aunque los últimos capítulos han sido un tanto precipitados estoy deseando ver cómo desenredan lo ocurrido en el siguiente.
I like that it has a very different setting to most fantasy being mainly based in the desert and with desert people, a great well developed mythology with all the different gods and the different peoples that worship these gods and some wonderful characters to tell the story with.The journey begins in this book for your main characters, particularly Khardan, Zohra and Matthew and the people and djinn that become involved in their fate.There is quite a cast of characters in this series, and you get to see a lot of insight into each of them which is interesting.
This, naturally, leads to a bunch of other problems that are complicated by the volatile djinn themselves.I'm not usually a fan of the omniscient point of view (although it does dive into a character's head for the occasional thought), but it works well here.
At some points, I wanted to scream at the other characters to stop Pukah from doing more "clever" things to gain Akhran's praise/save the day, when all he was doing was making things worse!I died laughing when (view spoiler)[ Mathew was to be made a wife in Khardan's harem!
One of my favorite 'pick it back up' fantasy series for whatever reason.
They have a particular 90s flavor that is nostalgic, but not something I need to rehash.This series goes in a different direction that makes it a fun read.
I like how magic is handled in the series, and familiar immortals (djinn, angels, etc) are introduced with a cool backstory.
I just really love the whole world view and wish the authors had considered doing more in the setting.Primarily the books take place in 'fantasy generic Arab land', much like most fantasy takes place in 'generic medieval Europe'.
The books also follow several strong female characters and even a...
I remember reading these a long time ago and loving them.
Now my feelings aren't so positive.First, I should say that the plots and characters are not the problem.
But, OMG, the writing style is SO juvenile I'd be reluctant to let kids read them.
Mix that with some slightly mature content (note slightly) and I don't know who I could feel comfortable handing these to with my recommendation.
It's a shame really because the concepts and characters are a lot of fun and I know the authors can do better.
I'll finish the series just because I like the characters (and I already bought them) but I'm not expecting much.
This is an amazingly powerful trilogy. The people are complex, strongly portrayed, and have a sense of self unlike any I've encountered in books before. Their gods are powerful, believable, and- perhaps most importantly of all- have deeply human emotions that make them very likable. The plot is tightly woven, dropping the reader into the blackest pits of despair yet still somehow retaining that small, impossibly held hope that somehow, someway, everything will work out. A masterful work of art worthy of J.R.R. Tolkien himself, and a must read for anyone who loves fantasy.
This tilogy was very good. It has its high and low points for me, though.I really liked the god system in this book, notwithstanding I'm usually entirely against having such as a mythological cast of gods—not that I'm entirely comfortable with the idea even here, but it's at least well-done for a fictional story. Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman do it well.I liked Pukah a lot. I liked the setting, with the desert peoples and all. The cultures and magics involved were all quite interesting. There was a lot of intrigue. The writing style was excellent.
This is the first book in the Rose of the Prophet trilogy.This book introduces you to a world full of main and secondary characters that will be much more enjoyable come the second book. This book plods along at times and the action is barely enough to keep your interest and you barely care for some of these characters. Hang in there I know the 2nd book gets much better.
The dialogue in this book is freaking hilarious! A fun fantasy set in an Arabian setting, the characters are so rich and fun, the gods are meddlesome, and the immortals take the cake. Really interesting world-building - even for the person who's not really into fantasy, Weis and Hickman make it really come to life. A worthwhile read!
I loved this series, and I'm not even a science fiction fan. Keep in mind, I read these a few years back and probably need to go back for a reread, but all I know is that these books were insanely addictive and I read all three in the course of two weeks or so. We get a love story, some magical intrigue, battle scenes, you name it. And a happy ending to match. What more could you want?
It just so dragged out. And I never felt connected so dnf
No conozco otro libro de este tipo que aporte tan bien esa sensación.Lo siguiente más llamativo es cómo presenta a la Dioses: el Mundo es una gran Gema de 20 caras.
Cada una de estas representa a un Dios y cada uno tiene su opuesto en la otra cara.Promenthas, es el Dios del Bien Supremo y Astafas es su antagonista.Al principio los dioses estaban en el Mundo, pero se cansaron de que los mortales no dejaran de incordiales con sus peticiones.
Para muchos, se trata simplemente de una novela de fantasía ligera muy normalita hecha por dos autores conocidos precisamente por hacer muchas obras y la mayoría normalitas, eso sí, todas definitorias de las mismas bases de la fantasía épica post-D&D.
Muchos, se pasan la parte que implica leerse todas las obras y crucifican a estos autores después de leerse solo las Crónicas de la Dragonlance, que probablemente debería reseñar en algún momento, como novelas magistrales dentro de género y que sin duda pavimentan el camino para encontrarnos con historias como La princesa del desierto o 
Yet another unique and creative world is created by Weis and Hickman in this trilogy from the authors of the Dragonlance Chronicles trilogy.
In the Rose of the Prophet trilogy, a divided world ruled by separate gods, each jealous of the others, is the scene for a dramatic story of love, pride, and deciet.
Weis and Hickman are masters at creating new and unique settings and they have proved it once again in this trilogy.
I really enjoyed this series, more than I meant to.
I also enjoyed the whole "good guy/bad guy" aspect insofar as the lines weren't always clearly defined between antagonist and protagonist.
Clearly we knew, at the beginning, who we were supposed to root for...
but as the story went on, who you WEREN'T supposed to root for became more blurred.I also really liked the godhood characters.
I quite enjoyed the interplay between the dieties and how that related and translated for the mortals.
And the story telling was spot on.
Good series!
To confront a divine threat, the Wandering God Akhran forces the representatives of two nomadic desert tribes -- Princess Zohra and Calif Khardan -- to marry.
Problematically, their two tribes have been at war for generations.
Further complicating matters is Matthew, a young wizard from across the sea and the newest member of Khardan's totally celibate harem.
Wacky hijinks ensue.I was weeding out my paperback collection in preparation for another trip to Favorite Used Bookstore, and I pulled out the Rose of the Prophet trilogy, which I adored in middle school.
It holds up surprisingly well.
I really enjoyed this and I was a little surprised that I did.
But the story is entertaining and the characters complex and the plot is intriguing.
It's obviously heavily influenced by eastern stories and the fact that the culture is so reminiscent of Arab culture that the characters actually use words like jihad and salaam aleikum means that it becomes a little difficult to take it seriously as a supposedly different world than our own.
Despite this flaw it's still a great story that is engaging and a fun fantasy-interpretation of eastern legends and myths.
What a silly little romp this book was!
I had quite a few unexpected giggles throughout the chapters.The story was long, but I still liked it.
The first couple of parts were my favorite though, as they were like little short stories that were easy to follow.~ I have a few favorite scenes revolving around Mathew, (who is by FAR my most favorite character of the cast) but I'd be sitting here all night trying to explain them all.
Everyone thinks he's a girl...This book has some pretty adult themes, but no serious 'scenes'.
I think older youth can appreciate this story too.
había muchas cosas de esta novela que recordaba, pero otras se me habían olvidado y son una grata sorpresa al releerlo.
Me gusta la trama y la forma pausada que tienen los autores de incluir la información del mundo a sus lectores.
Me gustan los giros argumentales y los personajes tan variopintos que hay.
Me encanta el detalle y la forma de ver el mundo de cada personaje.
Mi madre se reirá de mi su se entera que he releído la rosa del profeta con lo obstinada que estaba por no leerlo, pero he releído la rosa del profeta y lo he disfrutado tanto como la primera vez.
It starts off slow, but it really picks up once the main characters really fall into place. The idea of the pantheon is great, except that the execution is severely lacking as the stated structure is seemingly impossible to achieve (why bother going through the effort just to get it wrong?). I'm also a little confused about the relative strengths and weaknesses of immortals, and their apparent contradictions, but I guess that's something you just have to ignore. Mostly enjoyable overall; I look forward to the second.
Standard fantasy fare, with an Arabian theme.Notable for a pantheon of twenty gods indexed by faces of an icosahedron. The 12 vertices of this d20 represent philosophies like Mercy, Patience, Greed, and Chaos; each god is characterized by the appropriate three of these. The arrangement should warm the heart of any mathematician, or any D&D player, despite an appalling error on page 9: "The twenty facets of the Jewel are made up of connecting triangles, each triangle sharing sides with four other triangles."Why are no deeper meanings ascribed to the 30 edges?
If this was my first time reading this book I might have given it only 2 stars: an overall deus ex machina feeling, and lackluster characters, dialogues and plot.Still, I’m giving it the 3rd star because I acknowledge I’m not the target audience for it and I remember reading this series on junior high, and enjoying it so that I’ve been wanting to revisit it for a while... I still have hope that the series will get better on the 2nd and 3rd books.
This series is a lot of fun! It reads suspiciously like a chronicling of a D&D campaign...but the characters are enjoyable. These books feel shallower than the other Weiss/Hickman stories I've read -- I didn't get much philosophy or ethics out of Rose of the Prophet. But hey, I once heard that fantasy novels are for entertainment; if you want to send a message use Western Union.
La trama mi è sembrata un pò ingenua. Probabilmente doveva essere tutto incentrato sull'intrigo tra i numerosi dei, semidei, umani ma non è riuscito, siriusce facilmente a intuire quello che succederà.I personaggi mi sono piaciuti ma per poter dare un giudizio onesto bisognerebbe leggere tutta la saga visto che la fine del libro lascia tutto in sospeso.
A very standard fantasy series with a fair few non-standard elements to make it worthwhile. The system of gods is very interesting (though not fully thought out - many gods share the same domain), and D&D players will be interested to meet (in later books) the Paladins of the Night - the best representation of LE alignment I've seen. Anyway, worth one read, but probably no more
My least favorite of Weis and Hickman's. Unlike their others, this series lacks charm and there are practically no memorable characters. I've come to terms with my teenage love for Weis and Hickman and though I could never love them as much as I used to, their other books were more interesting. Their best was probably the Death Gate series. This . . . not so much.
Read this series years back on the recommendation of my parents, who love the fantasy genre. I was suprised to find I enjoyed it to! There is something to be said about escaping to another world, at least every once and a while.
I didn't like the beginning, but was quickly drawn in~it's the interesting lives of djinns (genies) and desert nomads~of course I don't have the other 2 books of the trilogy, nor does the library so I must begin the hunt for them!
Interesting world-construction. Slightly-awkward depictions of race/religion. Very awkward attitudes toward gender, but balanced by reasonably complex attitudes toward sexuality. The writing style is a bit too goofy.
