https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3090465-the-twilight-saga
What a wonderful story.
I don’t know what they read, but it can’t be this Saga if they say it’s well written.
“Oh no it’s raining, I hate rain, my life sucks”, “Oh no Edward didn’t look at me today”, “OH NOOO, WHY IS EVERYONE IN LOVE WITH ME?
First of all I don’t even understand why he’d fall in love with a silly little girl like her, who doesn’t have anything interesting about her.And last but not least, I’d like to mention some of the things these books teach people.
And I don’t think anyone would be interested in reading such a book, I’m sure of it.
This should be a problem, because Edward’s supposed to lose control when he comes near a blood singer like his brother Emmett did when he met his: however, Bella’s Edward is so inhumanly perfect that he never hurts her, and even ends up falling in love with her (proof that Bella is insane, because this does not make logical sense to us, the readers, but does to Bella’s poor fragile mind).
This makes perfect sense in Bella’s mind: she’s never been the centre of attention when living with her mother, and with her father the Chief of Police, he just doesn’t have the time to give her the attention she needs.
I read all four of the Twilight novels back-to-back (to back to back) over the course of one magical summer.
After countless hours every summer piggybacking my non-swimming offspring around the shallow end they finally developed some buoyancy and I was able to watch things like this .
That was also the summer I was able to get back into reading again.
Thanks to the never-ending Wal-Mart check out line and a pretty little cover that claimed the contents would "Soon Be A Major Motion Picture" I found what became a perfect little fluffy summer obsession read.
Say something that's true, like, I don't know, "I am a fourteen year old girl".
She feels she needs to look after them most of the time.
Sometimes she thinks they're like a bunch of vampires sucking out the world's blood.
Okay?- So, the girl in the story is pretty tired of looking after her dumb parents, and she knows the kids in her class are just a bunch of losers.
You think it sounds horrible that she's going to abandon her family and her friends and become a cold, hard, bloodsucking vampire robot.
Okay, except that she's cold of course, you're right about that.
They’re books (usually series) that are almost impossible to put down until you read the final page.
The prose might not be the best, and there are generally eye-rolling plot devices sprinkled liberally throughout the book, but the characters are fun to read about even when they’re obnoxious and the plot is immersive and compelling.
These are the soap operas of the fiction world, and sometimes they’re just exactly what you need to help you escape reality for a while.I consider Twilight to be one of the ultimate popcorn series.
Does that mean I don’t think said girls should be allowed to read the series?
ALL TIME FAVORITE SERIES EVER!!! No other compares!!!

This book was by far the best book i have ever read. Usually i dont find any interest in reading, but when i started Twilight i couldn't put it down. Ever since i read the Twilight series i've started reading on a regular basis. Even though i've read all the Twilight books i know that i will continue reading them over and over again and never get tired of them. I've told all of my friends about this book and they have read it and enjoyed it just as much as i did.
The final edition of Anuradha, Stop Using the Word Rebuttal. The previous four (yes, I wrote four more of this shit) parts of this ramble may be found in my reviews of Twilight, New Moon, Eclipse, and Breaking Dawn. I repeat, I'm only posting this because I read this article. I'm literally only refuting the points mentioned in this, nothing else. I don't like comparison, but if the other party does it, be sure that I will respond.  REBUTTAL POINTS 41-46: 41. The HP books are all depressing. Lots
REBUTTAL POINTS 41-46:
Lots of good characters die, which isn't cool.
And they're just full of violance, and ridiculous plans.Harry Potter books may have elements of violence in them, but people die in wars.
Stephenie Meyer did her resarch and found a place like Forks so the vampires could be outside.
The sparkles are so unique and creative.
Vampires don't sparkle.
harry potter is too hard for a young child to read.Young children should not be reading Twilight!
Click here for my review of Twilight which contains points 1-10.Click here for my review of New Moon, which contains points 11-20.Click here for my review of Eclipse, which contains points 21-30.Click here for my review of Breaking Dawn, which contains points 31-40.
I feel like I'm being generous with my two stars. Writing? Overwrought. Plot? Sooo thin. Characters? Mostly unlikeable (or forgettable). Misogyny and patriarchy? Slathered on with a spackle knife. Thinly veiled hopes to compare her stories to "Romeo and Juliet" and "Wuthering Heights"? Meyer, c'mon. Mormon subtext? Go read storey321's review here: http://stoney321.livejournal.com/3171... because I will never top that.However, after a really slow start, I tore through the last two. I guess Flanagan had something true in her review that "Twilight" taps into something in the adolescent girl mind. I dunno.
One day, I can only hope and pray, this Saga will be laughed at in sheer disgust and mocked, and all who said that it was the "best and most romantic book ever" will be mocked as well.
I would rather eat dirt than recommend these to anyone, and let me just tell you (scowls at her rashness which she is unable to hold back) you have absolutely NO taste in books and have not even read good books if you give this book more than one star.
Sorry if this upset you terribly: but I must tell you all the truth and hope that you will turn to GOOD books one day.
On the one hand, I was reasonably engrossed with the series despite its obvious simplicity and Stephanie Meyer's apparent ignorance regarding the difference between who and whom.
Edward is an overprotective, controlling, even physically harmful (because of his supernatural strength) partner at times (always remorseful, but never quite able to stop himself); Bella just keeps coming back for more (grimace).
Meyers leaves blank pages for entire seasons in New Moon--periods of Edward's absence when Bella's depression is so rampant that her thoughts and actions are not worth recording.
Bella is only able to be a person again with the help of another semi-paramour, Jacob.
Who doesn't love these books? They are embarresingly addictive and so fun to read. I fell in love with the characters, though there wasn't enough Edward in the 2nd book...and can't wait to see what happens next.
Twilight (book 1) re-read. Still love it after ten years. Haters gonna hate.
para la gente que no sea capaz de aguantar esta trama), tercer libro leerlo, y cuarto libro leerlo hasta llegar a cuando aparezca la chica capaz de ver el futuro, entonces pásate a la película y mira el final de amanecer (parte 2).Vamos las cosas que me evitan ponerle buena nota son el libro completo de luna nueva y el final que tiene el ultimo libro, sinceramente es de los pocos libros que cambian un poquito el final en la película, y la película tiene mejor final...Así que creo valorando todo esto, la saga al completo creo que se merece una nota de:6/10 (3 stars)Mas reviews en https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...
Sexist much?And have you noticed that almost all the women in Twilight don't go out and get a job, they just live off their men?Bella is the single most annoying female character I have ever come across in any book I've ever read (with the possible expection of the hypocrite Rose Hathaway from Vampire Academy) and I've read a lot of books.And as for Edward, well let me get started...How on earth is it romantic when he's stalking her and WATCHING HER SLEEP FOR GOD'S SAKE?
Thanks to a bet (involving things I would rather not disclose) I had to read the entire Twilight Saga (all four books).
And that’s sarcasm if someone didn’t get it.Second: The writing and style made the books hard to read.
Bella should’ve been sucked dry in the first couple of pages and Edward dismembered in the next couple.I didn’t like these books, I don’t think the change in POV could’ve improved them, I don’t recommend them, I won’t re-read them, and I certainly will not make a bet like that ever, ever again.
When her boyfriend dumps her in the second book, she turns into an even more useless lump by hiding from everyone for months on end.
Meanwhile, Edward, the supposed love of her seventeen-year-old life (like anyone knows who they're meant to be with at seventeen), is a creepy, possessive stalker who does nothing but obsess over Bella day and night.
I'm sorry to all the fangirls out there, but the way Edward "loves" Bella is not a true representation of love in my book.
A seven-year-old could read these were it not for content above their level.
So there is a Japanese manga adaptation of the series and I need it ASAP.
I may not be a Twilight fan, but I am a fan of manga.
Sometimes, I even read bad manga because it is fun.
It's making me so irritated, I want to tear this book." to "LOL, the author actually thought this would work." I know this one is going to be hilarious.Unfortunately, this manga is available only in Japanese now.
Here are the titles of the 13 volumes in English, thanks to Google Translate:1.
Vampire bride11.
Being held foreverAlright, I know the titles would sound better in Japanese.
The book that I'm writing this about is New moon, the second book in the series.
When I read this book, I literally cried for 30 minutes.
It's really sad, but you still love it, you love it so much that you get depressed with Bella (the main character).
But you also get happy and hopeful when she thinks of hanging out with Jacob Black.
It's about love, but it's also action packed when Bella finds out Edward thinks she killed herself and they have to fly to Italy.
This book is inspiring and I just can't get enough of it!
OK all these books are good, but extremely frustrating at the same time....
He's like 150years old and has never had sex?!!
The author does a really great job getting you to keep turning the pages, and just when you think there's gonna be awesome sex...None!!
Oh the morals you can learn from this book.
Maybe Bella wouldn't be so sad all the time if her cold, bloodsucking, boyfriend wasn't such a saint.
Never in all 3 books is the word sex even used!!
It's so frustratingly awesome!
Who wouldn't want to get it on with a hot werewolf or very strong, freakishly handsome vampire?
really, really awesome series. who doesnt like Twilight?
TWILIGHT IS AWESOME!!!! GO TWILIGHT!!! Alice is soooo my favorite. Cant wait till the movie!!!!
I enjoyed Breaking Dawn until I read the reviews about how dissapointed everyone was with the book...saying it was too perfect.
I thought Breaking Dawn ended just how I wanted it too.
Yes, there were a few flaws and a few too many perfect scenarios with Bella and Edward and a lot of build-up for nothing, but overall I enjoyed it and still read it pretty fast.
I already told my 11 yr old daughter that she couldn't read it because of a little more mature content with Bella and Edward getting married.
The story is not worth much, though I must admit 5 years ago I was completely crazy about these books. Since I am not a fan of the triangle or whatever it was between Edward-Bella-Jacob, I always liked Alice, Emmett, Carlisle etc. Even today, I do like some of the characters in the series and there are bunch of my hostel buddies with whom I bonded and became quite good friends because of these books/movies so yeah, this story will always have special place in my heart. Hence, 3 stars! ;) Otherwise 2 stars would've been enough.
Amazing book collection.
Why does the writer constantly underline that almost all characters are soulmates : Carlisle and his wife, Emmet and Rosalie, Jasper and Alice, Bella and Edward, Jacob and Renesmee (oh, they WILL live happily ever after together too, no doubt about that!), even James and Victoria must have been soulmates?
The bad guys were dealt with, Bella agreed to become Edward's wife, Jacob turned into a werewolf, ran away, end of the book.I've noticed that a lot of people who were "Twilight" fans were very disappointed with the 4th book, so I decided to download it and see how it could get any worse.
anyway I'm calling these books 1) the mediocre one 2) the angsty one 3) the abusive love triangle one 4) the really hella entertaining but also probably the shittiest one.
It wasn't actually that bad in book one from what I remember; he's weird, but he's somewhat less creepy.
This series is actually way less antifeminist than people act like it is; I have read far, far worse in terms of feminism.
Why did this book have to be about Bella and Edward??BEFORE YOU GO: Please read Natalie's review about how much the cast regretted Twilight.
