https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196613.Skinny_Bitch
The self proclaimed expert authors of this book are a former agent of a modelling company(who says she is a self taught expert) and a former model (who says she got her masters degree in holistic nutrition-when I looked it up it is from an unaccreditted school-would you take advice from a doctor who went to an unacreditted university?) They further the stereotype that in order to be happy you have to be a size 0.
It is sad to me that woman look to this kind of book, where they talk down to you(ex."Perhaps you have a lumpy ass because you are preserving your fat cells with diet soda." and "If you'd drag your cankles to a health food store...") in order to find inspiration.
I've been vegetarian for years and know a lot about where my food comes from.
They are strongly against the eating of meat or processed foods.
However, they strongly advocate the "fake meat" products available which ARE a highly processed food.
This book is pop culture at its worst and has nothing to do with health and everything to do with "being skinny".
They tell you that anything bought at a health food store, and drop many, many names, are the way to go.
This book makes anyone who ascribes to life as a vegetarian or vegan look like a hysterical idiot.
I quickly pulled a copy of The Economist from the magazine rack to help disguise my shame and paid my $15 while laughing (defense mechanism) to myself.As I read the book, I was surprised the content was actually very informative.
Save the drill sergeant vernacular, the book was excellent and I finished it during my 13 hour flight back to Beijing.{I’m a slow reader, so 200 pages in 13 hours to me deserves a gold star.}At the end of the book, the authors reveal how titling the book was part of their marketing strategy and people should focus on the beauty from inside out.
what the book actually contains is a violent script calling women "fat pigs" and "slobs" as well as "pussies" for eating meat products, drinking alcohol, milk, coffee, soda, and basically anything short of water and eating only what has naturally fallen off a tree limb.
if eating figs and berries is a call to love and saving the world one bite at a time, these women shouldn't be filled with such bile and spite.
This book provides an excellent representation of the problems with American culture convincing women to declare war on their bodies.
Chapter 1: "Healthy =skinny.
Unhealthy = fat." No, I don't think that obesity is acceptable, but at 5' 10" women should weigh more than 120 lbs if they want to be considered healthy.
This book encourages an extremely unhealthy, unhappy, negative relationship with food.
If you want to be healthy, cook-- don't microwave-- your meals, hit the gym or go for a walk, and adopt moderation into your lifestyle.
Skinny Bitch does not encourage moderation; it encourages obsession.
This book changed my life. I was a vegetarian before I read it, and it made me understand my body and the vitamins and nutrients that I need to function. It is loaded with motivation and information. Anyone who wants to sit around bitching about the "language" ..is a complete moron. I mean, really? Why would you pick up a book titled "skinny bitch"...and then complain about the language?...
Smart Bitches talks about the United States farming methods, slaughterhouses, milk industry and the widespread corruption within our government to include the EPA, FDA, USDA, and Congress.
Non-profit organizations, parents, and other groups have been trying to get healthier school meals inside our schools, but the USDA is heavily "supported" by the meat and dairy industries, so those attempts have been thwarted from all angles.
Sweets are treats for a reason and no, I don't believe it when you tell me you don't like it.Instead, I think the French approch is best: eat thoughtfully, use your head, but extremes are never good, nor are they likely to work long-term.
Ultimately I felt like these girls were playing the ends against the middle: "eating too much of anything is unhealthy," but then they're telling us to pig out on nuts, alvacado and the like...that's still eating "an abundance" of something...the best is to be a concious eater, not hungry, pissed off and, let's face it, poorly dressed.
These girls are potty mouths.
I'm only barely through Chapter 3 and so far I am very intrigued.
These girls know their stuff--it does definitely make you think about what you're eating.
Here are a few of the sentences I picked up within the first couple of chapters that really caught my attention:1.
In Chapter 11, we provide an "acceptable junk food" list that will make your nipples hard.
Four stars for now.
Right now I'm laughing at the vulgarity, but after an entire bookful of it, it may get old.**Halfway through--upped to five stars.
Another great line from this book:5.
This book wasn't written to piss anyone off but boy has it ever.
#1 the book doesn't advocate being anorexic or anything of the sort so come on...each days calories are far sufficient!
#2 The woman used a sassy title b/c look at all of you who stopped in the aisle of the book store/ library to pick the book up...it isn't offensive really...I have heard bitch on public television for over 10 yrs at least so please stop being so sensitive and serious.
I will attempt to be better to my world each day b/c it is simply NOT THAT HARD!
Since I am interested in health and wellness and so many people in my family and workplace recommended it, I gave it a try.I'll start with what I liked about it:1) It's a really quick read and the info is easy to grasp.2) The authors explain the evils of the USDA, slaughterhouses, and the typical American diet.
Those books are a thousand times better than this one, but Skinny Bitch will attract many more readers and I am grateful that this info is reaching a wider audience.3) The book includes a list of recommended healthy foods, many of which I have tried in the past and actually taste good.
P.S. It also makes your breath smell like ass.""If you'd drag your cankles to a health food store...""You want to be a Skinny Bitch, not a scrawny bitch."What not to love?????
On the final pages the authors even admit such- that they titled it knowing it would make people pick it up.
The authors quote from another (more serious) book called "Slaughterhouse" which they know their readers (read:me) would never pick up.
These girls are *good*.I wish this book had a different cover (and title), because then I could get every person I know to read it.
Plus, if you do drink it, you'll have a bad breath.Oh, I'm sorry, does the thootpaste make you fat too?---------------------------------Had to make a special shelf for this book."Burn it" seemed good.I only read the first few pages, and what I have to say that NO WOMAN EVER SHOULD READ THIS CRAP.I myself am not a bigger girl, but I decided to pick this book up, hoping to learn how to be even healthier.What I got is authors calling me a fat pig!
Then girls shouldn't drink alcohol because, even though that might give them confidence with guys, no guy will ever talk to them cuz they're fat.
I will say this without any qualification: If you consider yourself a "smart" woman and think this book is funny, helpful, and intelligent, the entire world needs to re-think "smart".
They spout idiocy like "Coffee is for pussies".
Ok, you two dumb shits (the authors): Women can't BE pussies.
Then they say, about giving up coffee, "it's not heroin, girls, and you'll learn to live without it".
Instead of coffee, they suggest you drink decaffeinated green tea.
NOW who's a pussy?
Only not as funny, believe me.
I wouldn't exactly call the authors "bitches".
I don't exactly know what compelled me to buy this book, since I don't diet and I don't read chick lit.
But as a lapsed vegan, I welcome a book designed to motivate readers who aren't already embracing a vegan lifestyle.My biggest criticism of this book is that it details ad nauseum (literally) what not to eat and offers only a general list of what to eat instead (fruits and vegetables, whole grains, nuts, beans).
So I enjoyed this book as an appetizer and look forward to reading and revisiting more substantial pro-vegan fare that will help my whole family adopt a healthier diet.
back away from the ice cream! Drop your hands and move away from the "moose knuckle bear fudge" !! I repeat, BACK THE HELL OFF!HEY! Put down that second bag of chips! You don't need it! Hell, you didn't need the first bag, either. Let's go for a nice brisk walk, eh?Do NOT stop at the drive thru! All Ronald McDonald wants to give you is a huge crapper and maybe a nice "Cardiac Surprise"! Step on the gas, bitch! Be gone!I imagine this book to be full of these little bits o' wisdom.R.I.P. common sense. I will miss you!
aside from the bad language, this was A GREAT BOOK!
I know.
I don't think the book was "pushy" or offering any quick-fix easy solution to becoming skinny/healthy.
most of it is stuff we already know but don't want to do: eat more fruit, veggies, whole grains, etc.
they talk about sugar - why refined & artificial is bad & what choices are better.
they go in depth on why meat and dairy aren't good for our bodies & why organic IS really better.
mmmm, sounded a little "familiar" already.seriously a good book that everyone should read.
Well, I flipped through it when it got here and was unimpressed and never read it.Then I saw an article in the PCRM (Physician's Commmittee for Responsible Medicine) magazine, saying that one of the Skinny Bitches was giving talks to White House staffers in Washington, and it really put a favorable spin on the book.
The Skinny Bitches gave me the ammo I need to tell those extra pounds where to shove it!I think this is a great book for anybody, whether you're vegan or not.
In fact, I got a real kick out of the way they tried to cuss and swear us into shape.
But then I read a bunch of OTHER people's reviews about it, and now I feel like I kind of get it.
All these other reviews were like (read in a high-pitched whiny voice): "Wahh, these authors are sneaky because they didn't tellll me it was a book about being vegan." And, while I am not a vegan, nor do I think the authors are people I would get along with, I'm pretty sure that's the point.
Because if they wrote, "Hey, man, this is a book about becoming vegan" on the cover, none of those whiners who read it would have even picked it up.
Okay there are some interesting and helpful facts, and the tone is sometimes witty, and quite humurous, but their soapboxes are in a height competition with their horses.
UHHH, a little brashness can be clever and quite amusing, but these skinny bitches are drowning in it.
When I finshed the book I was basically determined never to eat again, and convinced that everything I was doing was ridiculous.
Can you imagine the affect on the overweight, flesh-eating Starbuck's customers out there...
Lighten up ladies --- skinny or not, you bitches or a little on the heavy side.

I read a couple of mad reviews about how this pressures you to be vegetarian and was like "yeah ok so maybe it's a legit health guide" and shit, I was right. It's fun and daring, honest and straightforward. Yes, chickens are treated like shit and factory farms ruin the environment. Yes, aspartame is poison and yes we are what we eat. This is no frou frou pansy ass self help book to joy and self esteem, it's an authentic look at health and well being! Five stars.
While I am interested in the vegan and plant-based lifestyle, I find this book misleading and emotionally abusive. There's triggers galore in this book for women struggling with eating disorders and I don't agree with the presentation at all. Vegans and vegan lifestyles get a bad wrap and this book perpetuates the stigma against it. I prefer documentaries like What the Health or Vegucated to give a better representation and non-threatening presentation of information about the vegan lifestyle.
You cannot be thin, beautiful with a glowing complexion when you eat fear, grief and rage"*I'm mentally slapping the shallow, selfish author so hard*Ok, I took a break from my crazy life to read this annoying piece of shit.
It made me so pissed I've felt the need to review a book even though I barely have time to sleep and eat.What's the phenomenon of this little atrocity?
In short:- it's annoying- the science is wrong (or incomplete) far too often- there's little substantial content  (half a book is a filler, really.
A. Book.)There, if you don't feel like reading my long-ass rant, that's all you have to know.
The list here includes a bunch of inflammatory pseudoscience-y stuff, and the authors try to pass it off as fact.
The authors address the reader with many swears, and then in the last few pages they try to erase all the berating with a bunch of feel-good "believe in the power of positive thinking.
And, deep down, I think it'd probably be right to avoid dairy and eggs as well.
So even though I think this book is a trashy, condescending oversimplification, I do believe that there are some important facts deeply buried under all that nonsense.
I thought this was going to be a funny satire on how to starve yourself skinny by subsisting on cigarettes and caffeine, a good technique I've used in the past. ha ha. It's actually made me think twice about the food I eat, where it comes from, and the industries that promote those foods. If I had known from the start that it was about vegans, I never would have read this book but I'm glad that I have.
Stuff like this makes me lack faith in anything else they say.-Trying to get people to be vegan by using detailed descriptions of slaughterhouses just doesn't work.
What's more, if there WERE a humane way to slaughter animals, would the authors suddenly eat meat?
-Saying that dairy and processed foods don't make you feel good in any way is ridiculous.
Maybe giving up your processed food and cheese fix will drop you a few pounds, but if you want to be healthy you have to combine that new lease on eating with some moving around.
You think they look like that just from substituting soy cheese?
Fucking disappointing.
The premise is misleading as they basically tell you that their purpose for even writing the book is to "save the animals." The only thing I really got out of it was maybe to try a few alternate meat products, including these chicken-less buffalo wings, which are "so good they are guaranteed to make your pubes fall off." it's sort of like an Omnivores Dilemma with more F-bombs and colorful language, not to mention that I have a really hard time taking health advice from a "self-proclaimed know-it-all" and a former model.
Sugar is acidic causing your body to produce fat cells to keep the acid away from your organs.
Sugar cane plant once it's been processed and destroyed causes a list of side effects and makes you fat.
If you like artificial sweeteners (very acidic which cause weight gain and nasty side effects) you should read these pages and maybe they'll scare you into stopping.Meat: According to them, anyone who believes the Atkins diet just wants an excuse to eat unhealthy.
Those hormones and chemicals making their way into meat, find their way into byproducts like dairy and eggs too.
People don't want that word thrown at them because our culture says that being a vegan is unhealthy, ridiculous, and subversive.
My #1 complaint about this book: too many processed foods.
They should probably be a little more aware of the audience perception of the word "fasting", because to a critical eye, it *almost* seems like they are saying this is the key to weight loss.
Which bring on my #2 complaint in the book: the authors are clearly preying on the Western notions of "thin" and using veganism as a way to lose weight.
The idea of the weight loss being the sole reason to go vegan is short-sighted and superficial .
