https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1491184.The_Children_s_Homer
This is the perfect ORAL reading for young children.
I recommend that adults that missed out on The Iliad and The Odyssey as students begin their TRUE education by reading this version.
If you have never read Greek Mythology have your smartphone off for Googling because even though the books is "for children" there is nothing light weight about this volume.
While picture books help children stay focused on the story, this book with clean black and white drawings forces the child to create images of his own.
My sons loved this book as children and reread as young adults.
I read this child's revision of The Iliad and The Odyssey to my three children ages 7-10. We all liked this introduction to Greek literature.I was encouraged to purchase lectures on both stories from The Teaching Company. The lectures have opened my mind to help prepare me for when I do read the full English translation of both stories.You are introduced to all these names you might have heard growing up. Like Achilles, Paris, Hector, the Greek gods,Helen, Agamemnon,and on and on.This is a good way to start with great classics.
Really good book!
I read this to my kids, ages 5, 9, and 10.
We all really enjoyed reading this as we were studying ancient times.
We avoided the confusion that other reviewers have mentioned by making a little chart to put on the wall.
Whenever we came across someone like Paris in the story, we could refer to the chart to remind us of who that was.
I never read (nor in all honesty do I intend to read) the unabridged versions of Homer's tales.
This book was all the story with a little less labor in the reading.
What a FANTASTIC version of Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.
I recommend this even to adults who don't want to put the time into the full versions of both classics.
My kids, well...
one of them (6) actually loved every minute of it.
The other kid (5) tolerated it well and actually followed the events better than I anticipated.
She liked hearing the specific tales (Horse, Cyclops, ...
My 3-year-old boy just liked any part where there was death and deception.
I finished the full version of the Odyssey last spring.
I felt like this was pretty AWESOME as a children's version.
The story opens by introducing readers to Telemachus, the now grown son of Odysseus.
When Telemachus was just a baby--just a month old--his father went off to war, to fight in the Trojan War. The war took ten long, agonizing years.
Telemachus and his mother, Penelope, need to know: Is Odysseus dead or alive?
Plenty of men want to know too.
He also learns that his father survived the war and is trying to come back home.The second half of the book is about Odysseus' journey back home and how he handled or resolved the situation with all those men chasing after his wife.
I downloaded the a free audio version and listened to it with my children at bedtime. I had never read the original Homer but I knew of the tale. It was nice to hear the adventures and tales in accessible language.
Homer adapted for young readers by noted Irish poet perfect for reading aloud.
Rereading this paraphrase before teaching Homer for the first time.Kindle edition lacks illustrations.
one of the harder ones for me is to listen to an audio book.
I don't commute really, so this is never a habit I had, and I find myself really struggling to "sit still" or "be still" long enough to get engaged in listening to a read!!
It didn't take long to get the major characters straight in my mind, and Robert Whitfield, who does the reading, is so talented and so easy to listen to and become enthralled.
I prefer to listen to music!
The one thing that might irritate some people is that its a "childrens" book.
Anyway I'm pretty sure all that means in this context is that the pacing is faster than in the original, some of the blood + guts + weird ancient times sex is taken out.
Pacing in ancient epics is always snail-like so this might not be a negative depending on whos reading.The ancient greek-esque illustrations were really great and added a lot of depth to the book.
They are highly detailed but still make excellent use of negative space.
Colum's text and Pogany's illustrations do justice to the epic, ancient feel of the Odyssey and the Iliad while adapting them for child readers. A child who read this at the age of 9 or 10 might want to seek out the epic poems themselves at an older age. If not, they would familiarize themselves with the people and stories that form part of our cultural heritage. Either way, it's worth the effort.
I read this with my 9-year old son for homeschool and we both really enjoyed it. Colum did an excellent job of bringing the tale of Troy alive. This is a great way to introduce kids (or even adults) to the Iliad and Odyssey in an easy-to-understand format. When they're older, they can tackle the real thing, with familiarity with the stories thanks to this book.
Required reading for my 6th grader. Oh my! If this is "Children's" Homer, I am not looking forward to the real deal in high school! As much as I did enjoy this book, it is quite a bit above the reading/comprehension level of my 6th grader. So glad the audio version was available to him to listen to AND follow along in the book with it.
Good, but some of the language was a little hard to understand. For example, "She spoke to him as a princess should, seeing that in spite of the evil plight he was in, he was a man of worth. 'Stranger,' she said, 'Since though hast come to our land, thou shalt not lack for raiment nor aught else that is given to a suppliant. I will show thee the way to the town also.'"
its pretty exiting but they talk kinda wierd. but theres lots of fights and its cool
AWESOME! Finally the tale of Odysseus in a language I can actually understand! The plot is surprisingly interesting...
Wonderful way to introduce Homer to kids and learn the Odyssey
So I saw this at in the kids' room at church when we were getting family pictures, flipped through it, thought it looked interesting, like maybe it would fill in some of the gaps from the condensed version I teach out of the 9th grade Lit Books we probably all remember and still be understandable, saving me the time of reading the real 600 page version.
I loved learning from this classic story! The battle scenes almost lost me (other than the Trojan Horse), but the adventures of Odysseus and his will to return to his family was wonderful. I loved the characters in this book, the son, the wife, and Odysseus and the way they stayed fiercely loyal to one another. Someday I would like to read the originals, but this audiobook was perfect for all of us to be introduced to these great stories.
Si bien leí la versión en español Las aventuras de Odiseo y la Guerra de Troya, se trata de la misma obra, pero esta vez de la colección Thor de la Editorial Idunn (2013). Me parece una formidable forma de conocer y acercarse al detalle de la obra de Homero.El relato es adecuado a los sighlos que corren y está libre de usos de los juglares para centrarse en los hechos y en los detalles de las batallas, sentimientos y acciones que transcurren a lo largo de la obra.Muy recomendado.
This is my favorite of Padraic Colum's books based on ancient mythology and Greek literature. The story of the Trojan War and Odysseus' wanderings is captivatingly presented here in language plain enough for children to understand, but never oversimplified. If you are intimidated by the original Homer, this is an excellent place to start.
It won't be long before I am finished reading this out loud to my 9- and 6-year-old sons, and it has held them rapt. This is an abridged consolidation of the Iliad and the Odyssey in prose with some archaic vocabulary, but not overwhelmingly so - and the additional vocabulary is a bonus for my sons.
Probably the best version of this story I have ever read. There are beautiful pictures inside and the writing is thankfully not romantic or heavily graphic. It seems to be aimed for preteens but as an older teen, I enjoyed this book very much.
A great introduction to The Iliad and The Odyssey for my ten-year-old
Good adaption of these classic tales.
The children read this simplified version of Homer in school. I am glad to see parallels in our own lives made in this mythical story of Odysseus.
a good read, my start into"classics"
This was a read-aloud with my grade-school age daughter. Very accessible way to experience "The Iliad" and "The Odyssey".
This was a great version to read to my 7 seven year old. We both really liked it - fast paced adventures!
Aimed at kids, The Children’s Homer tells the story of the Iliad and the Odyssey. Given that those are pretty exciting books, it’s just incredble to me how utterly boring the majority of the book is. It is also written in a way that makes it very awkward to read aloud. If it was the only choice for telling these stories to kids, I’d recommend it, but since there are other much better choices, I really do not.
