https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251960.Velvet_Song
For the most part, I really liked the premise of the story – it’s very different from the first two books, and I was interested to see how the author would develop a relationship between the two main characters.
The thing that really angered me the most was how the author took Raine’s most admirable qualities – honor and pride – and used it as his excuses for shunning Alyx and everything she did for him.
Just like the first two books, book 3’s ending was also disappointing – the author delivers a rushed conclusion to Raine and Alyx’s story and that also cheapened the romance.
This is my least favorite in the Velvet series. I didn’t care for Raine, he was too much of a “hard-head”. In one scene Raine spanks Alyx for disobeying him and then she follows him to their tent to make sweet-sweet love??!! What. The. Deuce??!! No!! Just no!!
I was disappointed about that, since I really liked Raine in the first two novels and was looking forward to his story.I'm not a fan of the plain Jane heroine.
There are different kinds of beauty and not all men want the exact same thing.
I wanted him to see Alyx as the most beautiful woman in the world, but he even tells his brother he's had "prettier women".
Anyway, there was far too much 'you hurt my pride, I hate you' going on with Raine.
This was a time when might made right and men ruled the world.
I thought Raine was imagining someone else in the height of his fever but there was a little lucidity there so I wasn't that convinced.Again, Jude Deveraux's hero and heroine argued constantly here, and the only time they don't is in between the sheets.
I understand Alyx's side in whatever she did, and I also saw the point in Raine's feeling betrayed but with a little compromise and a think-before-you-act attitude, they wouldn't have suffered like that.So that's 3.5 stars for this.
Still a great read after all these years. Had me laughing, sighing and at times crying. If you love historical romances I suggest you start with book 1, and yes it will probably make you mad but still it's a great read as well. Then read the whole series and end with VELVET ANGEL. This is book 3 so keep in mind it is part of a series and they do need to be read in order. The characters are great, the plot is wonderful, the writing awesome and the overall appeal of the story outstanding. LOVED it!
I liked this book however was getting a little fed up at Reigns code of honor attitude. I liked that the h was not the standard body type but beautiful still. I LOVED how all the characters came together here. It's like a continued story from the last so you are weaned off each of the past characters.
After reading Stephen's story in Highland Velvet(my favorite in this series), I think I set my expectations too high.
Of the Montgomery brothers, after Stephen, Raine is my favorite.
Also, the whole love story between Raine and Alyx seemed rushed.
I did enjoy seeing Gavin, Judith, Joan and Stephen make appearences.
I just didn't like how Raine and Alyx seemed to go back and forth, loving and them storming off into the forest.
That just didn't seem like the Raine from the previous books.
I still enjoyed the book, but it would not be one I would reread.
fast faced (coz i just read "almost heaven" by judith mcnaught) so something refreshing to have this fast faced set up, but then i got...
i find all the set-up shallow (sigh) am not used to saying this stuff, coz me myself cant even write a book so who am i!?
by judging it without even finishing it--- so yeah, i wouldnt talk much--- maybe along the road i'll be able to enjoy and appreciate it like how "almost heaven" was...
i thought am not gonna make it, but yeah i did, somehow enjoy the epilogue, very touche when the hero said "almost heaven" hahaha :P *read*okay, i didnt like it.
She had always been told her musical gifts were a blessing from God. She is off composing when the local nobleman sees her alone in an orchard and tries to rape her.
She manages to get away but in revenge the nobleman breaks into her house, kills her father, burns the house to cover his crime, and then has her proscribed as a witch.
Raine hires Alyx as his squire.
Since Alyx has a dim opinion of all noblemen after her experience and since Raine is fairly autocratic, they have a rocky relationship.
So I am being nice w/my stars.
I just really wasn't feeling this book.
I liked Raine before I read this book.
He was a wonderful brother-in-law to Judith in her other book.
In this book he was an ill tempered jerk and I didn't get him at all.
Then the whole singing thing and to have such a voice for the kind to beg you to come as his audience.
Maybe that was the way of it then but it seemed really unlikely and kind of desperate to me.
I really enjoyed the other books in the series though.
Forgot how much I hated this character. In the other books in the series, he's the character you like. In the book that focuses on him though, he's horrible. To abandon his wife and child is unacceptable.
The only thing I didn't like was the background story. Mile's story was practically announced. I'm afraid there wont be much surprise in this next book. Raine really shouldn't have kept ignoring her but that seems to be the trend with these stories.
Another awesome book is finished ! :D I love this book but not quite alike second book in the series :D And can't wait to read fifth ;) If you have passion for Alpha Male characters and good story :D you should read this series :)
a re-read and still love this one.
If you love a story in which the heroine pretends to be a boy then you should read this. Highly recommended.
I love Jude Deveraux's books because they are fast, fun and easy to read romances.
Lu il y a longtemps. Mon seul souvenir est la scène d'amour à cheval, plutôt cocasse. J'avais bien aimé ce roman, mais il n'est pas inoubliable.
Klasika v rámci žánru. O tom ako si tretí brat manželku našiel. Tvrdohlavú rovnako ako manželky jeho dvoch starších bratov - ako inak. To by ani nebola Jude. Viac k tomu asi ani nemám čo napísať. Všetko dobre dopadne :-)
Very formulaic, takes from many stories to sew together this romance between an "outlaw" nobleman (hiding in a forest, no less) & a young woman who has disguised herself as a boy to escape from her village after her father was murdered & house burned to the ground, and found herself labeled a witch.
We have a disgruntled, starving populace, divide between the fortunate, not-so-fortunate & the VERY fortunate, feuding between two noble families, kidnappings & ravishments (the nice word for rape, I suppose) and interfamilial squabbles.
Not really my cup of tea anymore, though I was known to gobble up this genre in my long ago past!
I guess it's not fair to give it 2 stars; but i know id be lying to myself if id give it i-liked-it 3 stars.WHat really did not work for me about this book is the heroine's total bluntness that made me cringe and how she gets really really self-concious around our hero; how she degrades herself and goes all im-ugly blah blah blah.
But the heroines bad attitude and horrible manners are a total turn-off.Authours should know the difference between stubborness or feistiness between rudeness and diabolical attitudes.
The heroine disguised as a boy plot line has been much better used in other novels (Shakespeare not the least of which), and romance novels can treat the trope very well (Johanna Lindsey's Gentle Rogue, for example) but Jude Deveraux falls down on the job.
Alyx as a boy, for example.
Blanche is even more of a plot device than she was in Velvet Promise and Alyx's affinity for music is largely reduced to a parlor trick.
Deveraux is a better writer than this book demonstrates and she added a few interesting moments that could have really benefited from extensive treatment: Brian Chatsworth, Jocelin and Rosamund, Alyx's pregnancy, for example.
I must say, although I haven't read the last of the Velvet Series which is the "Velvet Angel", that the Montgomery Brothers -Gavin, Stephen, Raine, and Miles - are indeed hard-headed, prideful, and really hot-headed people!!!
Tears of sorrow, of anger, bust most especially, of joy!
I wouldn't have been inspired if it wasn't for this wonderful, adventurous series!Then again, I am certainly looking forward to the last installment of the Velvet Series.
Surely this will be another knock-out for it will feature the youngest brother of the Montgomerys, Miles.
I am looking forward to the story of the most stubborn man of them all!
I was disappointed with Raine's story.
He had potential to be my favorite brother.
Alyx, though, is a disappointment.
I like her story, how she came to meet Raine, but I didn't think she was right for him.
He's loves Judith, who is so strong, capable, and logical but falls for Alyx, who is none of these things.
If Deveraux wanted to rewrite this story with a better heroine, I'll happily forget this one ever existed.
LOL The book was good, easy to read, I just would have chosen something different for Raine.
He is too special for Alyx.
This actually the third in the velvet series.
We follow Gavin and Stephens younger brother raine into the forest because he's been deemed a traitor by the king.
He meets alyx, supposed to be a young boy as his squire...
She's been outcast as a witch and has a reward on her head.
I loved this book, love seeing old friends from the previous two books.
It's a lovely adventure through the forest and another brother takes your heart!
Highly highly recommend the velvet series!!
I'm anxious to reread the fourth of this series.
The third in the "Velvet" series and the fourth in the Montgomery series by Jude Deveraux. A wonderful series set in Renaissance England. Raine Montgomery is declared a traitor by his king and hides in the woods. (Robin Hood? LOL) Alyx Blackelt is a young woman with the voice of an angel and on the run from a murdering nobleman. She is disguised as a boy and ends up with Raine and his group in the woods.
The Velvet Song was the second novel of Jude Deveraux's that I have read and I wasn't disappointed! Again like the first novel I read of Deveraux's, The Heiress, I read it in a day and loved the attraction between the two main characters, Proud Lord Raine Montgomery & the musically gifted Alyx!I would dress up as a boy to be with Raine Montgomery!!
Just as good as the 2 before, although I enjoyed the slight change in the story. Instead of taking place with Nobles and the constant feud between the main characters; the story takes place in a forest with Thieves, Murderers and Outcasts. Of course there was till a constant battle between the main characters, it was a nice bit of change. Enjoyed just as much as the others in the series.
Raine Montgomery, I just loved him in Highland Velvet and I thought I would love his story. It was okay. He being my favorite brother from this series deserved a little more. I thought they spent too much time apart.

Book 3 of the Velvet Series, Raine is the 3rd Montgomery brother and an outlaw I liken to Robin Hood. He falls in love with a poor musician, Alyxandria, who has disguised herself as a boy and hiding out with Raine's band of outlaws in the forest.
