https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/566611.The_Funny_Thing
I didn't care for the art and I don't like the story. I will read it to a child, ages 4-6, and then, perhaps, revise my rating.
I think I loved this more than my children. I loved reading it aloud. I loved the pictures and the food, the deep cave that serves as a house, the nonsense words "jum-jills" and "aminal," the vanity of the Funny Thing. Indeed he was very pretty, such a tail and eyelashes! One of the kids' books we won't get rid of.
Wow The Funny Thing.I must have read this book like a thousand times when I was a kid and then reading it to my little brothers.☺
It is an all time classic and shows the genius of Ga'g, a very mis-understood story indeed.
lolPut yourself in the mind set of a child growing up in a household where there may not be a lot to eat or your mother made soup out of the lawn and a boot(not exactly but)...
*to accept and make use of what you have, and you would still grow up to be beautiful.
A Classic with just as much purpose, perhaps with greater and at the same time tamer intensity compared to Millions of Cats, another important story.
This older children's book was different from the more modern day children's book. It was different in both the illustrations and the text. I noticed the illustrations didn't always match the text which is more common in older lit. This story had nonsense words and would be fun to read with children.
I'm waiting inside the woods. I'm waiting inside the woods. I'm bored. That's just because you're not filtered. What's that? Bhhhrrrrr. What?Ok. Go go!OK, this is enough, I think I can do it, I think I can do it. Zoom!Ahhh.OK, go! Zoom zoom. Heading for the woods! Okay aaaand go! Forest World's Park.
The "funny thing" that appears in this story is immediately accepted as real by Bobo. That's the charm of these kind of stories—and creates a subtext for how difference can be readily accepted into the world. In fact, "difference" is the thing that changes the "ho-hum" of the everyday into something supernaturally terrific.
1st Grade: Sharing the planetDo you know what an 'aminal' is?? Do you know what they eat?? Neither did the old man that lived in the mountain! But he met one! And learned they eat dolls!! Wanna know what he did to avoid the 'aminal' from eating more dolls?? Well you're gonna have to read the book to find out!
Notes:Odd story -- mountain man stops a doll-eating dinosaur thing from eating dolls and in the end his tail grows really long. But the illustrations are great.
Charming and whimsical!
love this nonsensical story. same with the millions of millions of cats story... Classic
Odd little story, held the kids attention for a lap read aloud, although I think Sky was a little confused.
One of my first favorite books! From before I could read!
The story of a "Funny Thing" who is very picky.
this is one of my favorite children's books.
