https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32370.Dry
I don’t normally drink martinis, but according to Augusten Burroughs, the famous Cedar Tavern on University Place in Manhattan serves huge ones (“enormous; great bowls of vodka soup”) - so you get the most of what you pay for.
While reading Dry – a “memoir” about overcoming the “disease” of alcoholism - I couldn’t help but think Burroughs had, um, invented many of the book’s anecdotes and conversations.
One flush wouldn’t prevent Burroughs from sticking his face into the toilet bowl to drink the (now alcohol-free) water?
I'm an advertising alcoholic, an eccentric mess." It takes some time for Burroughs to admit he really DOES belong in rehab, that he's had unrelenting substance abuse problems since childhood.....when he started taking pills and drinking wine at Dr. Finch's house.
Once he's out of rehab - and back in New York - Burroughs is supposed to go to group meetings AND individual meetings for six months, and to attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings EVERY SINGLE DAY for the rest of his life.
Any romantic relationship directly after rehab is discouraged, and hooking up with a fellow addict is verboten - but Augusten can't help himself.
But the biggest difference for me is that as you read more and more Murakami books, as you get the same ingredient each time, you’ll get tired of him.
He is still gay and he goes out and makes out with different men, some of them casually, but it talks about more serious and believable matters like serious alcoholism, AIDS and seemingly faithful(translation: more than sex escapades) gay love affairs.My favorite part is when Burroughs was out in a gay bar and he said to himself: this place is full of naked sad lives.
"Dry." This book I read the next day...
couldn't put it down.The memoir follows Augusten in his success as a mid-20s creative advertiser, which seems like the most appropriate job between Burrough's self-confessed childhood ideal jobs of hairdresser & writer (in "Running w/ Scissors").This one has a different flavor altogether, kind of like the Truffaut series of Antoine Doinel films.
It is trainwreck drama/memoir!Burroughs is a great writer, my second favorite Burroughs as a matter of fact.
Because they did & because this fact means that our OWN lives are unexpectedly complex, sometimes truly symbolic and difficult to get through, it is a book to read.
I can't attest if that's from being gay, the result of coming from a dysfunctional family, or perhaps from working in advertising (in New York, no less).What made this story interesting for me was the way he narrated his excruciating battle with alcoholism, that even someone who doesn't suffer from that ailment can actually empathize with him.
There were times our protagonist was readily aware of his shortcomings--from keeping up with the AA meetings to juggling his relationships with Pighead and Foster--and if those weren't uncomfortable enough, the reader is also made cognizant of his glaring denials about how he was living his life, pre- and post-rehab.I highly recommend this novel.
LOVED IT!
He spoke to a very large, adoring crowd in the senate chambers, and then signed books for quite a long time to an equally adoring snaking line of fans.
He's sober now, bummer, so we couldn't take him out and get him drunk.He game me his badge to sell on ebay but I think I stuck it in a box somewhere.Anyway, this book is amazing, it's almost too confessional; you feel like you can practically feel his pain as he hits rock bottom and tries to claw his way out of addiction.
Burroughs will always be, for me, the man who I love reading his funny observations but who I'd never want to be friends with in real life.Burroughs is shallow and vain and foul-mouthed.
And because he knows that about himself, he can write very funny books about it.This book is about Burroughs being a drunk, and his long path to sobriety.
If this bothers you, either don't read the book or skip every section that's in italics.P.P.S. If you are an addict of any kind and you do not feel like you have a good grip on your sobriety yet, I am warning you that this book can be triggering.
Just no bullshit," he says, slapping me on the back."Really?
I had no idea what I was saying.
I was actually thinking about how my chest hair is growing back after having shaved it all off." Hayden turns sharply, "What?""Well, I thought maybe of bleaching it for the summer.
Chest hair roots.
The blond chest hair might look good and natural like I go to the Hamptons on the weekends.
but as soon as the roots started to appear, it would be like, 'Oh, that's very sad, he's obviously looking for something and just not finding it.'" Hayden stares at me with mock horror.
What more can be said about Augusten Burroughs? He is an amusing mess! If half of the information in his memoirs is true, I will give him five stars for his survival skills. If his memoirs are later discovered to be false,I will give him five stars for creativity and fantastic story telling.I can't put this book down.I haven't read their books, but it seems that his mother and brother are capitalizing on family dysfunction as well. They all make me feel extremely boring and sane.
"The fact is I'm not like other people, I'm like other alcoholics." This was an audio reread of a book I read in print in 2008. This has long been one of my favorite memoirs and will remain so. Augusten is a decent narrator except, when speaking as Foster, he sounds more like Forrest Gump than just a guy with a southern accent. Being from the south myself, that threw me off a little.
By far my favorite Burroughs' novel. This one isn't for the weak of heart, its not the same light feel as some of his other books. This book digs deep and leaves you feeling his hopelessness. Dry is all at once inspirational, depressing, exciting, and frustrating. Immediately after reading his honest and darkly beautiful memoir it immediately made it on my favorite books list. Burrough's has become a favorite of mine for his seemingly effortless managment of language. He is honest, funny and accessible. The kind of guy you want so desperately to have programed into your cell phone.
This is the second memoir by Augusten Burroughs, which details his life in his 20s, living in New York City, working as an advertising executive, making tons of money, and slowly killing himself each day by drinking more than seems humanly possible.
His detailed descriptions of people, places and feelings are so well-written.
This was a much easier read for me compared to "Running with Scissors." They were both well-written but this one, at least, was about him as an adult making his own decisions.
The description of his illness was as if I was reading my own journal during the time of Jim's illness.
While it may seem that Burroughs's story about his struggle with addiction and sobriety would have little to do with the average twenty-something's experience muddling through a break up, I have found no better book to read in the wake of a disasterous relationship.For example, once he's sober and out of rehab, Burroughs begins counting days.
(He keeps track of how many days he goes without dringking, and must to keep counting until he hits the 90-day mark, after which the coutning becomes optional.) This is a great method to use following a break up.
I was immediately smitten with Augusten's playfully sardonic story telling.Even when he is being a horrible person, in thought or deed, I am still charmed by his wry self awareness. His roller coaster of emotional reactions to recovery was captivating to me. The supporting cast of his life is well drawn. Augusten's talent as an ad man serves him quite well as an author.I doubt I would have picked this up if not for book club. Another win for compulsory reading assignments!
If he didn't feel anything, which I would find difficult to believe as he claimed to drink a liter of Dewars nightly AND was allergic to alcohol, then wouldn't it be worth mentioning that he miraculously had no physical withdrawal symptoms?I gave this book two stars instead of one for this reason: I think that Burroughs' goal in writing this memoir (and likely his other memoirs, though I have not read them nor do I have any intention of reading them now) is to yank an emotional reaction from his audience.
Those were good times, I wont deny it - but it's over now.Dear inside of book,lets not kid ourselves, it was only a physical attraction and in the end that is never enough.*I found my brothers real life drug rehab stories to be more compelling (sarah, remember the kid that tried to prove his "recovery" by barking like a dog?)*the was OK, whatever but I kept getting irritated with Burroughs for over explaining things.
And suddently, he ceases being a person and takes on the appearance of an anonymous roadside restroom stall." here enters one of the many overstatements that irritated the hell out of me, "The kind used by passing truckers for quick sex with people like Kavi." Well no shit?
Thank goodness the author acknowledged the criminal behavior of those who were supposed to be responsible adults, but who placed him in situations that no child or even young adult should have faced.
In other words, he doesn't simply laugh off his unorthodox upbringing, he acknowledges the fact that the responsible adults got it wrong.
Still, he doesn't wallow in it, and regardless of the back story, this is a tale of addiction, recovery and lots of what happens in between.
Instead you spend lots of time in the recovery process.
Review to come.
3.5 stars - It was really good.Great insight into the mind of an addict and the writing has me wanting to pick up his other memoirs; really enjoy his narrative style. Not recommended however for those with delicate sensibilities. -------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: When you have your health, you have everything. First Sentence: Sometimes when you work in advertising, you'll get a product that is really garbage, and you have to make it seem fantastic, something that is essential to the continued quality of life.
As the memoir continues, Burroughs explores life back in New York, a special someone he meets in his outpatient group, and a lingering connection from his rehab days that tries not only to vie for his attention, but to keep him from falling off the deep end.
Shocking in its honesty and clear in the pathway on which this journey developed, Burroughs provides the reader with insight and hope for a man who came close to losing it all.Again, a special thank you to Rae Eddy, who recommended the Augusten Burroughs memoirs.
But to satisfy the niche of urban hipster- intellectuals who are looking for a step above Lindsay Lohan's faux-glam adventures in US Weekly, this book was just an edited down version of James Frey's A Million Little Pieces, which I read on spring break at Canyon Ranch while detoxing from my own underage escapades.Although Frey was too audacious (and unethical, according to Oprah in 2006 and the recent issue of Vanity Fair...I cannot believe we're still talking about it) in his attempts to be a great memoirist through booz and bold moves, we all know that truth really can be stranger than fiction(whether 100% real or partially embellished); and those who live to tell about it in a well-crafted way deserve credit.
But if my boss sent me to rehab for 30 days I would be like, "Cool, 30 days paid vacation?
First off, 30 days of rehab no longer sounds like fun.
It was heartbreaking and funny, although I suppose the progression of the author's alcoholism from denial to acceptance to sobriety to relapse and back again was exactly the formula I expected.
Imagine how bad the reviews would have been if he went to rehab and came out still thinking it was a load of garbage that did not teach him anything?I suppose it was inspiring if you need help warding off the drink, but I'm not going there.
Burroughs had me laughing and nearly crying all in the space of 293 pages! I almost felt sorry for him at different times, but then he always ended up trying to pick himself up and recover. The great thing is that he knew he needed AA and even though he stopped going and fell off the wagon, he got himself back to recovery.
But as soon as the roots started to appear, it would be like, ‘Oh, that’s very sad, he’s obviously looking for something and just not finding it.’ ” Hayden stares at me with mock horror.
- location 3317“Foster, what is it you like about me?” I stare at the blades of grass before me, afraid to know the answer.
She didn’t look up, just kind of cocked her head to the side and continued to stare at her reflection in the mirror as she said, “Wouldn’t it be strange if you had no ears?” - location 3467“Hi, Greer,” he said as he entered the room.
I've read this book twice.
To me then, it what a very good book but I did not have the connection to the story then that I do now.Since the first time I read the book, I dated an alcoholic who in retrospect seemed to suck everything out of our relationship like they sucked every ounce of liquor from the bottle.This book went from being interesting and hilarious in turns to being exactly what I needed.
I actually read this book while still in that relationship and it more than anything made me realize that I was completely wrong in my approach.
The book chronicles Burrough's journey from successful ad exec to alcoholic _ in often funny, yet also touching ways.
One thing that never occurred to me is covered in the book: a reason I had never thought of concerning the relapses of many addicts.
THIS is your lifestyle, and along with the alcohol, you must give this up.
By turns touching and hysterical, I would highly recommend this book.
I am certain some parts are embellished for effect, but for me it mostly rings true and gave me a glimpse into the mind and life of an addict.
I loved this book! A family member recommended it to me and I thanked her for doing so. This is the story of Augusten Borroughs's journey to overcome his addiction to alcohol. He is an advertising copywriter and it's clear he knows how to tell a compelling story. I loved the nuances and descriptors in his stories. I'd recommend it even if one is not going through recovery.
This is a difficult, but worthwhile read. I admired the author's ability to share so openly about his addiction. Most of the time I didn't like him, yet I couldn't put the book down.
Brutally honest. Makes you want to close your eyes and run from the room - but you keep reading.
