https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6570502-switch
In the meantime, though, my brain just won't stop incorporating elements from it into how I'm thinking about current events in my life.I was already inclined to believe the validity of the structure that the Heaths outline because I've practiced some of it already without using the same words--most especially Shaping the Path, as I give a lot of thought to the environment of my preschool classroom (an example: want your students to stop running from one end of the room to the other?
In fact, if any of my M Teach friends are reading this – you probably want to get your hands on a copy of it, as it has some really interesting things to say about how to motivate students.I’ve read another of their books – Made to Stick: Why Some Ideas Survive and Others Die – which was also particularly good and based on an idea in Gladwell’s book The Tipping Point.
The point is to find ways to see what can work (which is normally what is already working somewhere) and to replicate that.I really liked the metaphor of the rider, elephant and path developed in this book and think, for that alone, this book is worth reading.
:DA remarkable fact about the book which is vivid in the real stories provided throughout the book is the consistency and integrity of the "framework of change" they're teaching.
Shaping the path: Which is about the environment, influencing our behavior.There's an analogy used through out the book regarding our rational and emotional part.
Our limbic brain, our subconscious mind or the emotional part of our brain is so strong and compelling that in terms of strength looks like an elephant to our logical part of the brain (rider).
The rider provides planning and direction while the elephant provides energy and motivation.
I understand the perspective of the haters: this book is broad and over-simplifies a really complex topic.
I understand, haters, but I don't agree.
Their premise that inspiring change requires you to speak to both the brain's logical, rational side as well as its emotional side isn't headline news, but they present it using a simple metaphor (Rider, Elephant, and Path) that makes it easy to grasp and (more important) easy to remember.
For instance, the emphasis on the powerful psychology of "quick wins" (Ramit Sethi), decision paralysis (Barry Schwartz), the power of a checklist (Atul Gawande), or the importance of "What's the Next Action?" (David Allen).
This is a book that's best read after you have read 1-3ish good self-help books (say, Baumeister's "Willpower", Duhigg's "The Power Of Habit" and Keller's "The One Thing" for example), and yet feel you need something like 'cherry on top'.This book teaches one how make a change through the image of a rider, directing an elephant, on a path from A to B.
When I made notes I did gather more than what that page says, but happily also noticed that you don't have to write much - unlike in some other cases.
True to the theme of their earlier book, they help make all the concepts stick by hammering them in over and over: Direct the Rider, Motivate the Elephant, and Shape the Path.For any change to occur, you must have a good reason, a good motivation, and a good environment.
To be able to change, it's almost a requirement to have the latter mindset especially because change is often very difficult.Finally, shaping the path has three components: 1) tweak the environment; 2) build habits; and 3) rally the herd.Tweaking the environment means arranging things around you so that it becomes easier to do one thing over another.
This is an excellent book on how to enact change and the mechanics behind that.
I strongly recommend this book to anyone who wants to change something in their personal life or within their working environment.
He then breaks it down to these sections.Direct the Rider- Follow the bright spots- Script the Critical Moves - Point to a desired destinationMotivate the Elephant- Shrinking the Change - Growing your People Shape the Path - Tweak the Environment- Build Habits- Rally the Herd A concept that I found intriguing is the Fundamental Attribution Error.
Direct the Rider, Motivate the Elephant, and Shape the Path.
The idea isn't to just think about the good things in your life or others, but to really analyze why they work so that you can reproduce it.Script the critical moves- Make it easy to make the right decision.
It is a lot easier to tell a group of people to do something differently when 50% or more of the people have already agreed or made that change.HAVE A GROWTH MINDSETYou will have initial feelings of excitement,hope, and optimism, but once started you will start to feel depressed and like a failure, but if you persist and persevere you will make steady progress and come out in the end with a great feeling of accomplishment.
Build habits that advance the change you want in your life.
Let me sum this book up: To change behavior, you must do three things.
Two and three, you must change the person’s hearts and minds.
The authors use the analogy of an Elephant and his Rider.
So, to put it another way, to change behavior, you must Direct the Rider (provide clear direction), Motivate the Elephant (engage people’s emotions), and Shape the Path (create the best environment).Here are some more ideas from the book.
Keep the Rider (one’s mind) busy analyzing why things work well.
Go ahead and give two stamps toward the goal on the Loyalty Card, what the authors call Shrink the Change, build by providing an early small win.
If you want to save time, you can just read the first and last chapters, as those in the middle are just examples (case studies) to illustrate their points.
Provide crystal-clear direction (instead of telling people to “eat healthy”, give them clear directions like “buy 1% milk instead of whole milk.” Don’t think big picture, think in terms of specific behaviors.
Change is easier when you know where you’re going and why it’s worth it.-- Motivate the Elephant (our emotional side): What looks like laziness is often exhaustion.
For example, “show, don’t just tell.
A fellow colleague recommended this book to me, and I have to say that it read pretty quick. The chapters are broken down into numbered anecdotes. Examples and stories of these concepts. These stories made the book relatable and easier to digest. The concept is that change is difficult, but using some key theories, you too can change anything. A behavior, a concept, a strategy, or a mindset.
And I think the book could have been cut by several chapters without being hurt at all.I like the basic metaphor of this book: the emotions as an elephant, the intellect as mahout.
Unfortunate, as both my elephant & mahout enjoy getting up to a clean kitchen.The Heaths also take a page out of the FlyLady’s book [Sink Reflections : FlyLady’s Babystep Guide to Overcoming Chaos] by recommending breaking tasks down into tiny sections—making the goal so small that the emotional elephant isn’t spooked by it.
The book’s central claim is that effective change requires three things: engaging the rational, data-driven perspective of the people who must make the change; ensure they have an emotional stake in the change; and make the change process as easy as possible for them by manipulating the environment.
To describe this triad of requirements, the authors use a metaphorical rider (the rational perspective) on an elephant (the emotional component) moving down a path (the change context).
It presents some reasonable change strategies, and having them in one’s change-management toolbox is a good thing.
But surely there is a way to present them without using silly, repetitive language, and without claiming that these are the only effective ways to create change.
This is by far the best and most practical book on behavior change I've read so far.
In the book the process of change is described as involving 2 sides of your mind, your emotional and rational thinking.
The rational, decision-making part of us is secondary and it sits on the Elephant as the Rider.
The Rider is the one that deals with self-control, decisions and setting big goals.
Overall this book offers a great practical framework how to adjust both the Rider and the Elephant in ways that will allow the change to occur and stick.
The concepts it discussed were no-brainers and there was really nothing more to pull from this read.
The writing made me feel like the authors were trying too hard to be my friend having these high five do you know what I mean moments that made me shake my head in disgust.
It’s like I am trying to sell you on a product that I didn’t like myself, “The drink tastes like how cat piss smells but if that’s your thing, go for it.” Two stars to a book that my rider and elephant agreed sucked a big fat one.
Well, a pretty good book. There's nothing here I haven't read elsewhere. this is a book giving the same steps you will read about in most "beat bad habits" books (change routine etc.).It's related through the use of examples which makes it accessible. I think this will be more help in a bad habit at work situation than in ones personal life.
Switch is like the Heath brothers earlier book, Made to Stick, in that the ideas in it are not new, just better expressed.
Chip and Dan are great storytellers and they have made change (i.e. behavioral change) simple and easy by reducing it to 3 steps: Direct the Rider (provide clear direction for the rational mind), Motivate the Elephant (engage people's emotions) and Shape the Path (make the change easier by changing the situation in key ways).
Similarly, their first book took the sophisticated and elegant work of Robert Cialdini and made it accessible and simple.
This one gets five stars out of utter usefulness. If you liked Charles Duhigg's Power of Habit, you should love this one - it's certain to add many new life-changing tools to your current collection.
I have to admit that I didn't read it carefully. Mostly it's a more self-helpy version of lots of pop-psych books I've been reading lately. And it's a little too general, in that it assumes most ppl are very similar to one another (even when it reports success rates of, say, 18% before & 35% now).But it's got some terrific guidelines, mantras, examples, and actions, so if you're motivated but unsure about how to begin to make the change you want to see in your life or your team, it's worth checking out. Or maybe check out www.switchthebook.com/resources first.
The people who change have clear direction, ample motivation and a supportive environment." This aligns very directly with the best practices we present to communities and discussed in our book: "Community Visions, Community Solutions." For a powerful recent example see Erie Together on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y3RDVu...Well, if there's a pattern to follow, why don't we?
oftentimes we have seen the rational mind of a businessman in a community gathering embrace the emotional comfort of "lets just do something" rather than invest the process time to draw a clear, rational, path to the solution.
The authors focus on three areas: The intellect (which they call the "rider"), the emotions (which they call the "elephant), and the environment (the "path").
A lot of the book is devoted to ways the rider can trick the elephant, because the elephant, being so much bigger, usually gets its way.I was also impressed by the author's discussion of "growth" mindset vs "fixed" mindset.
A fixed mindset is the belief that people are either good at something or not, and it's pretty hard to change.
looked like another management book, not transformative (along the lines of say Good to Great).
I thought that about Howard Gardners books on change.
They call them: Directing the Rider (rational, scripting critical moves, point to the destination); Motivate the Elephant (emotional, make it easy to comply, appeal to the image/pathos); and Shape the Path (situation the change.) They offer cases right and left.
1. Rather than allow for ambiguity of "wear now" and "not now," the manager said to wear them all the time (Directing the rider.) 2.
I wont forget elephant, rider, and path.
and as a futures/architect, change is part of my core business.
I wish I could press this book into his hands and say “Here is your chance to understand.”As well as writing a primer on human nature, Chip and Dan Heath have constructed a wonderful self-help edifice around the concept of a little man (our rational side), upon a big elephant (our emotional side – weak, instinctual and full of desire for instant gratification.) Then finally there is the environment, and our habits within the environment.I had heard quite a lot of the advice before, but with the exception of a couple of the examples I had never heard about the experiments or case studies behind the advice.
For example, the story they probably bring up the most is about a campaign to get people to switch to 1% milk.
I looked up the article they cite for this and it offers zero evidence that the intervention decreases weight or increases fitness (nor does a follow-up by the authors written years later).
So I looked up the topic in general and found that there is some epidemiological evidence that drinking 1% vs.
whole milk actually increases weight rather than the opposite.
The 1% milk story is an example of how NOT to do public health behavior change.
so boring. Perhaps some good theories, but they are repeated thousand times in book.
Big, little, personal, institutional, societal…any kind of change in any context can be understood by the overarching metaphor the Heath brothers use: a Rider (reason/analytical appeal) on an Elephant (feeling/emotion), traveling a Path (the situation/environment/direction the change must go).
There are several side-bar “case studies” which are also drawn from real situations needing change, where you are offered the chance to think about what you might do to make the “switch,” and walk you through the change step by step.The three elements of making a switch: Direct the Rider, Motivate the Elephant, and Shape the Path, are further described and faceted into steps.
One of the reasons that I like this book so much is that it focuses on the systems in place – not the people.
Too many books focuses on the people and start from the assumption that there is something wrong with them: they are lazy or they are dumb.
Switch focuses on the environment and the systems that are in place that lead to a given result.
The managers look at the problem and realized that no one wants to get their hand stuck so they devised a safety mechanism where in order to operate the machine, two buttons a arms length apart had to be pressed.
Some of the studies they cite are well known and should be given a sentence or two rather than a page.In a nutshell, the Heaths suggest a three prong strategy (and borrow a metaphor -- from author Jonathan Haidt -- of a person riding an elephant) to make change happen:> Direct the Rider: Outline clear steps and make a rational case for them.
Give the logical side of our brains a clear and achievable next step (and end goal) to focus on.> Motivate the Elephant: Get us riled up.
All that it will do is tire the "Rider."The authors explain that when we try to change, we have to use both the logical (the Rider) and the emotional (the Elephant) parts of our brain.
The Rider is the part of us that decides to lose weight, but (as Chip and Dan illustrate) the Elephant is that part of us that goes hunting for the Cheetos in the pantry late at night.
The Elephant will always take the easiest and most familiar course, whereas the Rider tries to take the most logical course.
In order to make an effective "Switch" we must appeal to emotion (the Elephant).
Sure, you'll be introduced to some jargon, but it's just three terms (Rider, Elephant, and Shaping the Path), you'll learn them within minutes, and they'll be used consistently throughout the rest of the book.
There are no magic tricks, but there sure are some neat ideas.I really like the fact that the examples used in the book apply to single individuals as well as to groups, businesses, or even whole countries.
This is great, because once you learn the ideas, you find yourself thinking of all sorts of ways they could be applied.Switch is a well-written, very convincing book.
