https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30267929-we-were-the-lucky-ones
There was both too much and not enough going on for me in this novel based on the true story of a Polish Jewish family under Nazi occupation.
Also, a lack of dramatic contrast in all the narratives.
I could tell how it was all going to end up (the title is a giveaway) which dissipated much of the dramatic tension.
I don't want to be told the obvious - for example, that a knock on the door at three in the morning is terrifying.
I want to be made to feel how terrifying it is.
Starting in Radom, Poland, the Kurc family, mother, father, four adult children, the youngest son already in France, are happy, worried but sure things will be fine as long as they are together.
There is one touching yet horrific moment in Siberia, where one of the couples has given birth to their first son in freezing conditions.
Little touches like this help offset the large amount of people and places that this novel encompasses.The authors note at books end details not only her research but also how her family is now, where they are at, and what happened to those caught in Hitler's madness.
Although this is Historical Fiction, this is based on the real-life story of Georgia Hunter’s grandfather, who was one of the members of this real family.
Even though I was aware of this being based on the lives of actual people, this doesn’t read like a memoir, there is an essence of a multi-generational family saga that sweeps over six years time and five different continents to place the reader in a time and place so easily recognized now for what it was.
I loved reading the Author’s Note at the end, and the inclusion of a photo of her with her grandfather, how she came to find out his real-life story, and how much research went into this novel.
This is the story of the Kurc family, a Jewish family, the parents and their five adult children, beginning in 1939, in Radom, Poland.We follow them through the years just prior to, and during World War ll, one of them sent to Siberia, and others fleeing to different locations in Europe.This is a lovely yet difficult story of survival, and family love.Based on the life of the author's grandfather.Thank you to NetGalley, Viking, and author Georgia Hunter for the ARC
Audiobook ...narrated by Kathleen Gati, and Robert FassI appreciate this story — the author’s personal relationship to it.....based on her Grandfather and the Kurc’s family harrowing experiences during WWII.....spanning from 1939 to 1947....And the Audio- voices were excellent - but when an audiobook is 15 hours long - it takes something extraordinary to keep us from drifting off into other thoughts.
....Sometimes — it just dragged — ....Other times I felt there was too much sentimentality —....I didn’t feel strongly attached to the characters either — there were so many of them.....separated and dispersed in different countries throughout Europe.
Both books felt like they were ‘reporting’ ....from a ‘to do’ list?
Overall .....I have honest respect for this book - but It was sloggy-long for true engrossing-reading/listening enjoyment.
What a fantastic debut novel! How the Kurc family survived the atrocities of WWII is an amazing true story of courage & determination. The thing that stood out to me about this novel was that the experiences of the members of this one family were so diverse. Only complaint was that being a large family it was difficult trying to keep track of who, when and where everyone was. I did notice, however, that the print version includes a character chart which would've helped out a lot. This is another, absolute, must read for lovers of WWII fiction. 4.5 stars.
Five stars all around for this story. Thanks to the Penguin Random House publishing group for sending me this book as an ARC. As soon as it comes out go and grab a copy. It will be a roller coaster ride you will not forget. It is a story of survival in Poland during World War II. Much of Poland and the Jewish community was ravaged by the Nazi regime. What unfolds in this story is just mind blowing.
Indringend...schrijnend...waargebeurd verhaal over de Poolse, joodse familie Kurc, die als één van de weinigen WOII weten te overleven...dit verhaal komt bij je binnen...grijpt je bij de keel...en laat je niet meer los...Sol en Nechuma, Genek, Mila, Addy, Jakob en Halina(alsmede hun partners), zij hebben WOII weten te overleven op karakter en met een hele grote dosis 'geluk'.
En ook uit die kracht kunnen putten om na WOII het leven weer op te pakken in een 'nieuw land'.Een goed gedocumenteerd verslag van alle historische gebeurtenissen zijn in het verhaal verwerkt.Dank aan Georgina Hunter dat zij dit verhaal over haar familie met ons heeft willen delen!
You can read all of my reviews at Lit.Wit.Wine.DineWe Were the Lucky Ones is the fictionalized account of the true story of the Kurc family and their experiences during WWII beginning in their home town of Radom, Poland in 1939.
The book spans eight years as we follow the Kurc family members to several countries and continents including Austria, Italy, Argentina, South America, and Siberia, Russia as the war continues and finally ends.As many of you know, I read a lot of WWII fiction.
But this is a story based in fact and lovingly told by Georgia Hunter, the granddaughter of Eddy Kurc (Addy in the book).
This is the miraculous story about the Kurc family living in Poland before war breaks out and continues through til the end of the war. The chapters alternate between characters when the family is separated and end up in different parts of the world. This is truly a remarkable story about survival against incredible odds and the fact that it is based on the author's own family is what makes this novel special. Georgia Hunter has written a story about heartbreak and what family means that I will remember for a very long time.
The author spent many years researching the incredible true story of her grandfather's family, the Kurcs, a family of Polish Jews living in Radom, Poland in 1939, who get split apart far and wide throughout WWII.
While they each endure many harrowing experiences, at its heart this is a story of determination, survival and the bonds of family love.
The alternating chapters can be confusing at first, especially if listening in audio, so you might want to create a little cheat sheet of each sibling and where they are as the story progresses through many locations and years.
Well, I just found another auto-buy author. This book destroyed me. It's amazing. EVERYONE needs to read it. ETA: I loved it so much I ordered a copy and had it shipped to my parents just IN HOPES they will read it (they probably read 10 books a year put together). Full review to come!
Expertly researched, beautifully told, compelling to the last page.
As the Kurc family, a Polish-Jew family, is having its last meal together (they do not know this yet), they talk about babies and their growing family.
Through five continents and six years, this family will do the impossible to reunite.WWII and Holocaust novels are abundant.
This narrative belongs to the Kurc family as they attempt to survive Hitler´s destruction.
Spanning five continents and six years, the story takes place in Poland, France, Italy, Siberia, and Brazil (just to name of the the locations).
I am glad Georgia Hunter decided to write this as historical fiction instead of a memoir.
A must read for any historical fiction fan.
I feel bad rating this book because it is based on a family's true story. As an ancestry novel for a family it would be an amazing novel of their ancestors. However, as a story for the masses, the characters lack depth and therefore the story lacks emotion. I have read much better novels from this time period. I didn't hate it but I didn't like it either.
This is a fabulous, emotional story of a family from Poland (2 parents, 5 children + others) and their experiences during the Nazi horror, based on an actual family, written by the granddaughter of one of the 5 children. The pace is unrelenting, and each short chapter is frightening and also thrilling, with survival always at stake. Tears came to my eyes many times as I could not stop turning the pages. In addition to being a marvelous story, the writing is outstanding. The author has total control over what, in lesser hands, could easily have been impossibly complicated.
It breaks my heart again and again but this is my way of remembering the history and remembering the heroes and remembering the incredible strength and courage we all have as a human being.This book is based on TRUE EVENTS and follows the Kurc family at the start of the war in 1939.
The way the author unfolds the story, the way every word is chosen, I love how it is told based on the experience of each person in this family.
The Kurc family's experience during World War II, beginning in Poland and stretching to Siberia, Italy, and Brazil is nothing short of a harrowing odyssey, the outcome of which defies statistics, explanation, and imagination.
Despite the many horrific details of their experience, this is a story of hope, inspiration, and true grit.I've historically had a tendency to get bogged down in World War II books, but I never felt that way while reading We Were the Lucky Ones.
Hunter did a masterful job at keeping the story moving along, making it feel like a "quick read" in a page-turning sense, even though it's not a short or light book.
As I wipe the last tears from my eyes, I am in awe of this beautiful story. What a privilege it was to learn about this incredible family. Their journeys were not easy, their heartbreaks were many, but the bonds and hope they shared are inspiring. Every time I encounter a story of the Holocaust, I am taken by the strength of the human spirit and will to survive. May we never forget the horrors inflicted on the millions of innocent people.5 heartfelt stars.
How, in an instant, his future can be decided for him.  3.5 stars. I've started this review three times already and hit the backspace button every time. I could write an entire review about the love/hate that I have with WWII fiction. The market is so saturated with stories that it's easy to dismiss most of them because they can't all be the one that you need to read. Yet at the same time, every single story deserves to be told. If you have read other WWII fiction or have seen enough WWII movi
I could write an entire review about the love/hate that I have with WWII fiction.
If you have read other WWII fiction or have seen enough WWII movies, this book could probably be a skip for you.
If you haven't read much or any WWII fiction, then this book might be a great introduction into the hardships and heartbreak that befell so many families of the time.
I give the author credit for trying to piece together a story from so many various accounts of family members (as always with books like these, please read the author notes.
We don't get too much of that in WWII fiction.
It’s different than a lot of other books like it and at times seems unrealistic, but obviously it’s based on a true story.
I kept flipping to the family tree, which helped some, but then I would forget what happened to which characters.
However, I read historical fiction to fall in love with characters and learn about their experiences, unfortunately these characters lacked development.
This made it difficult to get swept away into the novel, because I didn’t feel an emotional connection to this family even though I sympathize with their story.
I just wanted more as far as character development and that would’ve also helped keep each storyline straight.
I read quite a lot of historical fiction that takes place during WWII.
Even though reading about the horrors of war and the Holocaust can be so very heartbreaking, I feel it is important to remember those who fought in the war and to especially remember those who died so tragically.
This story of three generations of the Kurc family is beautifully written and is indeed heart-rending.
While it is considered historical fiction, it is based on author Georgia Hunter's grandfather and his family.
From the beginning of the book to the very end, including the Author's Note, this book will have readers captivated.
We Were the Lucky Ones By Georgia HunterThis story was based on the author's Grandfather and the Kurc's family experiences during World War II beginning in Poland in 1939. This was both a beautiful and heartbreaking story. It is told through different member's of the family alternating throughout the book. The prose is lovely and lush and crystalline. The family gets scattered in all across different countries in Europe. This debut novel stayed with me and I haven't been able to stop thinking about it.Thank you to Net Galley, Georgia Hunter and Viking Publishing.
Even if you're not a fan of either of these time periods, or even of historical fiction, We Were the Lucky Ones is too good to miss: the experiences of a single family, throughout the span of World War II (from the German invasion of Poland in 1939 to V-E Day in 1945, and beyond), and the events that would change their lives, their entire trajectory, forever.
She’d have laughed then if someone had told her that someday they might be worth her husband’s life."Although Hunter has been researching, interviewing and writing for several years, this novel seems quite timely; it is a heartbreakingly realistic reminder that we all share the same desires, the same needs, the same humanity.
3.5 StarsThis historical fiction on based on author's careful research that traces her family from Poland to across the world. Several present-tense perspectives provide experiences of The Kurc's, a Jewish family spanning three generations, as each member battles to survive WWII and genocide. While some accounts are moving "We Were the Lucky Ones" lacks some layers. I think this book needed a strong central character with more emotional depth. .Buddy Read with Stacia
So good, the story, the characters, the historical details. Amazing book, I loved it!
The book is a little hard to follow at first because there are so many family members and each chapter gives an update on what is happening to a different family member but once you get used to who everyone is, it's a lot easier to follow their plight.
I was also surprised to read the author's notes at the end that this was based on her family and a lot of the people portrayed were her family members including her grandfather.
This was so well worth my time and don't be surprised if you shed a few tears.I received an advanced copy of this book through Penguin Random House's First to Read Program.
Yes, they were lucky, but they also demonstrated true resilience, forethought and they were smart.While this was a well written novel, the Kurc family includes the matriarch, patriarch, 5 adult children and their spouses.
That is 12 characters to keep straight, at times a challenge for my simple brain.
The author is the granddaughter of one of the five Kurc siblings and this novel is based on true events.
Enjoyed this story but you really need to commit and stay focused with all that is going on with the 12 characters or risk some confusion.
It may not have the emotional connection of The Nightingale, or the beautiful prose of All the Light We Cannot See, but the just-slightly-fictionalized story of the Kurcs Family is one of the most amazing WWII stories I have read.As with many historical fiction I read, I began with some light research to figure out how much of the book was true and how much was fictionalized.
What she found out inspired this book.Her grandfather's family--parents, four siblings, four siblings-in-law, and niece--all lived in Radom, Poland when WWI began.
They all lied and plotted to live.And, they all survived.This is the story of Hunter's family.
It's about authors grandfather and his parents and siblings and their astonishing experiences during World War II.
I learned so much reading this, yet you can feel the authors love for her ancestors spilling from the pages.
I've never read a book quite like this one, and it was a fabulous experience.
The Kurcs are an amazing family of Polish Jews, a mother and father, with 5 adult children (some of them married) and their grandchildren, who did whatever it took to stay alive throughout the horrendous war they lived through.
It's brilliantly told through multiple POV, which was excellent because the family gets split apart and separated all over the world throughout the war.
