https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1860759.My_India
This book is an unofficial autobiography of Jim Corbett.Its a collection of various experiences of Corbett from a hunter to a worker on Mokameh Ghat to a healer.The language is simple and every chapter describes a new colour of India.Certainly Jim Corbett was more Indian than lots of Indians I know.He was one of those foreigners who understood India,its wildlife and most importantly Indians.Thats why this book which he flawlessly describes India deserves five stars.Thank you CorbettSaab...
Unlike Jim Corbett's other books, My India sketches the kind and tender human being within the ruthless hunter.
In this book Jim Corbett also talks about his professional career and the decisions that he made, which in return made him what he was.
Perhaps, this is the only book which Corbett has dedicated to detail the people closest to his heart, and how they influenced him in his crucial decisions at critical points of time during his numerous encounters with the wild cats.
Every story is testimony to the fact that Jim Corbett could look at the people around him as his co-workers, friends and acquaintances without their race or nationality being of any relevance to his relationship with them.
These qualities, coupled with his lucid and meticulous narrative style mean that the book is as much an insight into Indian society, the Indian railways, the Indian landscape in the Gangetic plain and the lives of Indian civil servants of the time as it is into the man himself.Corbett continues to be loved in India for all the qualities that made him a great human being.
Corbett's views reflect a typical Britisher's viewpoint of India as it was back in the days of the Raj. He is prejudicial, opinionated, humble in an odd perverse manner where he at one hand maintains his British superiority and on another hand loves his rural India.
He cannot be called a man harbouring various contradictions because these contradictions come naturally with a superior British behaviour which is both at the same time condescending and nationalistic in an odd way.The book has several stories, interesting, funny, revealing and some with beautiful climaxes.
I was introduced to Jim Corbett at a very young age by Dad who read to us The Man-eaters of Kumaon.
Had never read My India though.
His pen pictures of simple folks he interacted with like Mothi, Budhu, Lalajee and Kunwar Singh are so vivid.The poignant tales of rural India warms one's heart.
Especially loved the tale of The Laws of the Jungle.
And my favourite line is: "Had the Creator made the same law for man as He has made for the jungle folk, there would be no wars, for the strong in man would have the same consideration for the weak as is the established law of the jungles."
An apt title. The author's love for the country and her people shines through his words.
A very different Book than normal Jim corbett stories. Normally the stories related to various hunts are part of his book, but this book talks about then people of Northan Provience. It sketches some very memorable scenes and scenarios.Unfortunately after reading we realise that ground realities for very poors of caste torn north has not changed much since last 200 years :(
This book is a wonderful collection of stories like the ones that you would hear from your grandparents about India during the British times, the ones you'd wish never ended. Thoroughly enjoyable stories of forest, wild animals, railways and people of India.
I love everything about this book.
The simplicity of the narration, the innocence of the characters and the stories that force you to restore your faith in humanity.
The stories are absolutely heartwarming and guaranteed to lift up your soul.
Without any kind of preaching, any dose of philosophy Jim Corbett provides the reader with a whole new perspective to look at life, people and the social issues.
Kindness is the essence of most of the stories and one can see why he refers to this alien country his own.
One doesn’t come across such books everyday.
I am happy that I did.
A vivid account of a portion of India, and of Indians in the late 1800's and early 1900's by Jim Corbett. There are, as is to be expected, many "burra sahib" moments, but the book also records many other simple behavioural and cultural aspects of the poor people that Jim & his sister interact with on a daily basisPersonally I enjoyed the part that catalouges Jim's work & stay at Mokameh Ghat the most
This book reveals much about Jim's big cat expedition experiences and the way how kindly he was treated by Indians.
Takes you back to a time when things were so much simpler. Clearly indicates his deep rooted love of nature, a country and its people.
Jim Corbett(1875-1955, 79yrs) was born at Nainital to British parents working in India.
In this book 'My India' he writes mostly about two places: Nainital(Uttarakand today) then in United Provinces & Mokamah Ghat (present day Patna) then also in Bihar.Jim worked for 21 years as Fuel(wood & then coal) Inspector for Railways at Mokamah Ghat.
Not the usual stuff you find in Jim Corbett's books. There're few stories about man eating tigers but as a whole, this book's not as action packed as his other game books. You can read a lot about rural Indian lifestyle though. These people're extremely poor and they were totally cut off from the outside world, they lived an isolated life in the jungle, but they had their own ways of dealing with everything they faced with, regardless it's good or bad. It's really enjoyable to learn about these folks.
I read this book as part of a combined edition called "Lives in the Wilderness".Mr. Corbett describes India and it's people in a manner which makes one feel proud of being an Indian. Especially heart touching were the stories "the law of the jungle" and "Chamari". The way the latter of which ends, "but if I'm privileged to go where he has gone, I shall be content", has left a lasting impression on my mind , about the great and down to earth Jim Corbett.
Jim Corbett has showed his love for India in this book where he explains the beautiful moments he had here. There were many places he used the term Untouchables and Poor India representing the condition at that time. It seems that he always stood as a support for the poor in India. Nice experience as we feel ourselves inside the dense Indian forests. It was slightly boring in the middle and there were also some very interesting stories too. Overall it was a good read :-)
You can feel the terror of the people who were victims of tiger attacks (and were lucky enough to live to tell their tale).You can feel the surprise of the tigers as they faced Corbett's muzzle, not realizing that that would be the last sight of their lifetime.You can feel Corbett's nerves as he stalked and baited the best hunters of the jungle.All in all - an exhilarating read.
A collection of short stories of INDIA and People of India in Jim Corbett's time and narrated beautifully viewed from Jim Corbett's eyes.He has given some note worthy encounters of People of India who were working closely with him and others who made a significant contribution to shape his life.
This well-worn hard cover edition was loaned to me by a friend who grew up in India. Corbett spoke at my friend's school and left a lasting impression.In one tale, Corbett speaks of a very good man who has just died, stating that he'd be very happy to go where this gentleman was headed in the next life.I'd be delighted to go to wherever Corbett is in the next life.
I have read all the six books of Corbett and one of his biographies and consider him the most natural story-teller. This book is undoubtedly his best followed by Man-Eaters and leopard of rudrapryag. It is not about his hunting expeditions but his humane side and unassuming personality.
An enjoyable read.
guys do like and share your views about the book of facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pages/My-Indi...
The stories and the writing are amazing. It just left me enriched.
Good background for Corbett's Tiger Books.
Superb :)
Corbett has his style to win my heart. His love for those people is so well expressed that I'm craving to meet them too.
Essence of North India & People living there. :)
IT IS AMAZING...I TELLS ME MORE THAN I KNOW ABOUT MY OWN MOTHERLAND!
