https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95186.The_Inheritance_of_Loss
The true Indian identity that was an amalgam of the nation’s own culture and tradition spawning several centuries when they were still free of foreign influences.
It may not be as tear-jerking and bewildering as Arundhati Roy’s The God of Small Things although it is also about Indian families trying to survive the Third-World realities of life.
I think this is what made me appreciate Desai’s over Roy’s: that her characters have choices, despite the fact that those options are limited because of the harsh environment that they happened to live in.
I'm not going to say that this novel is bad(Chorus of GR friends : Say it, go on, you know you want to...)but it was pretty ghastly for me. It was strangled to death by a style you could describe as inane wittering, a crew of characters all of which are loveably eccentric and a plot that Ms Desai believes will take care of itself as the inane wittering puthers all over the loveable eccentrics.So, to sum upBAH
Kiran Desai provides the reader with a superb image of globalisation when she describes the customer-receiving areas of an upmarket restaurant flying an advertised, authentic French flag, while in the kitchen the flags are Indian, Honduran, anything but French.
Now there is true authenticity for you, offered up in its manufactured, globalised form.Biju, of course, dreams of home, but the comparatively large number of US dollars he earns – at least as far as the folks back home see it – barely covers essentials in someone else’s reality.The narrative of The Inheritance Of Loss flits between New York, northern India and elsewhere, and also between the here and now, yesteryear and the judge’s childhood.
هل يمكن أن يتحول في أعماقنا الشعور بما نحققه من إنجاز إلى شيء أشبه بالخسارة والفقد؟ ميراث الخسارةميراث الفقر والجهل، والحظ السيءميراث ينتقل من جيل الآباء إلى الأبناء والأحفاد وإلى آخر السلالةميراث أساسي لكل من يولد في بلد نامييملك من الفقر والجهل ما يكفي ملايين الأجيال القادمةيلاحقهم أينما كانوا، ومهما حاولوا الهرب منه حتى إلى أرقى البلدان تقدمًايبدو أنه ميراث يجري في دمائهم وتتشبع به جيناتهم الوراثيةأو هو هالة تحيط بهم أيتما كانوا وتدفع عنهم كل بارقة أمل أو فرصة ستدفعهم للمضي قدمًاأعتقد هذا ه
هل يمكن أن يتحول في أعماقنا الشعور بما نحققه من إنجاز إلى شيء أشبه بالخسارة والفقد؟
حينما وصفت أوضاع الهند من فقر وتطاحن القوى والتيارات المختلفة هناكوحين وصفت المشاهد الثورية وأحداثهاأحداث ذكرتني بما يحدث في بلدي الآنالتاريخ والسياسة كلما تقرأ فيهما مهما اختلفت الثقافات والدولستجد أنهما يتكرارا بنفس النمط المُفزع والصادمالتاريخ يُعيد نفسه، وربما السياسة ما هي إلا دائرة مغلقة تُرتكب بداخلها نفس الأخطاء بالغباء ذاته!هذه هي الصفحات التي لفتت نظري في الرواية، والتي حملتني على رفع التقييم إلى نجمتينأما عن باقي الرواية، ستقرأها وبمجرد إغلاقها لن تتذكر منها شيئُاولن تحرك تفكيرك أو عاطفتك قيد أنملةتمّت
Both novels break from the traditional immigrant novel by having the main character break from the country of adoption and return to the country of origin.
This is a lot more striking than you might think— the basic concept of the immigrant novel, from Amy Tan to Rushdie was co-existence, a belief in the ultimate greatness of mongrel culture; the character finding some way to come to terms and perhaps even thrive in the country of adoption.
In Inheritance, two generations of immigrant return and both experience the fundamental instability that comes from divorcing where you're from, but never fitting in with where you're at.
أفضل ما في الرواية هي الفكرة العامة التي تناولتها الأحداثتكتب كيران ديساي عن الخسارة أو الفشل المُتوارث عبر سنين في بلدها الهندالجهل والفقر والتمييز, والفشل السياسي والأمني في حل النزاعات العرقية والحدوديةأما شخصيات الرواية بكل اختلافاتهم, فكل منهم كان لديه ما يخسرهخسارة العمر في الأوهام, خسارة الحب, الأحلام, المال, الأمان..وتظل الخسارات تُعيد تشكيل حياة البلاد والبشر
but i want to warn other people away from it!the author is obviously an intelligent writer, and she has a real mastery of language.
i read up to the part where the judge returns from england and rapes his wife after she steals his powder puff, and i threw the book down in disgust.
it's not just what happens, but how the author writes.
i felt like taking a shower after reading passages from this book.other reviewers said that the glorious and brilliant thing about this book is the mood the author creates.
if you want to read a book with mood, then go for it.
While the writing was lovely and the theme of the conflicting Indian identities in post-colonial India and in the United States was really interesting and supported with well-developed characters... but. I just couldn't get into it and found it like pulling teeth to get through.
Desai says that her novel “tries to capture what it means to live between East and West and what it means to be an immigrant” and goes on to say that it also explores at a deeper level, “what happens when a Western element is introduced into a country that is not of the West”.
Sai’s feelings give a sense of the inheritance; “Never again could she think there was but one narrative and that this narrative belonged only to herself, that she might create her own tiny happiness and live safely within it.”Easy to read and deceptively deep; this is a good novel with much to recommend it.
In fact , the novel is not much of a good read beyond my taste ; however, objectively speaking, I agree with another famous Indian writer, Salman Rusdie, that Keran Desia is a terrific writer.First: Desai’s writing style reminds me of Black-American writers’ novels; for example, the Invisible Man by Ralph Ellison.
you might beat your head against the wall thinking about the best and most beautiful fragments you could fabricate as long as 7 years as Desai took time to finsih it.Second: The novel is what the social world must know .
كيران ديساي ~ ميراث الخسارةالرواية الحائزة على جائزة البوكر الدولية 2006 الرواية تحكي عن بلدة هندية تقع في منطقة جبال الهيمالايا, يعيش في تلك البلدة فيها قاضي وحفديته والطباخ الذي يخدم في منزل القاضي..
أجواء الرواية هادئة نوعاً ما، كل القضايا في الرواية تناولتها " ديساي " بطريقة راقية عفوية جميلة بعيداً عن الألفاظ الفجة ولغة الثرثرة المبالغ فيها، وحتى فيما يخص الجزء الذي تحدثت فيه عن الحرب والعصابات المسلحة وأعمال القتل، لم يكن تناول تلك القضية بصورتها القاتمة المعهودة بل حاولت أخذ كل الجوانب وعرضها في إطار واقعي أدبي راقي جداً، ومؤلم أحياناً..النقطة الأكثر إيجابية في هذه الرواية هي الواقعة بدون شك، من الروايات القليلة التي تأخد الحياة بهذا الشكل الواقعي المحايد..رواية جيدة تستحق القراءة لكنها ليست مبهرة على كل حال..
It was an awful thing, the downing of a proud man. He might kill the witness. I was in the midst of my pre-reviewing laze that consists of gathering up thoughts and quotes and semi-but-not-really-pigeonholing-various-things when without warning the word 'satire' reared its head. It's not a word I get along with, what with its all too frequent usage as a blockade, a safety blanket, a "but it's a satire so I can say anything I want?!?!" that guarantees neither quality nor even simple entertainmen
It's a piece that makes you laugh while questioning while you're laughing because you are also crying but not nearly as much as you should be while also recognizing the logic that is only the extension of a present day condition that seems practical and common sensical until it isn't because now you're (view spoiler)[eating human babies (hide spoiler)].
Don't get me wrong, the slippery slope analogy is a fallacy alright, but more fucked up things than government sanctioned (view spoiler)[cannibalism of newborns (hide spoiler)] has happened on a more official scale.
We're having a great time, but we'll be glad to get home where, let's be honest (sorry, we've never been the PC types!) there is widespread availability of deodorant"'This blindness of whiteness, the inability to see the colonial other as a thinking being who knows the language you forced them to learn and can read your inane asinine racist postcards, comes into focus, now I revisit that page and look a few paragraphs behind, where Sai and Noni and Desai reflect on justice and law, and the violence of that blindness and all the destruction wrought by it jolts into mind.Desai works her themes through character and the story has two centres around which they storm and bear their lightning and thunder: Biju, who has migrated to New York city, and Sai, an orphaned middle class teenager living with her grandfather 'the judge' in Kalimpong, a town high in the Sikkim area of the Himalayas where the Nepali Gorkhas are engaged in nationalist struggle against the Indian state.
Living in the PastMost of this brilliantly-titled book is set in a small Himalayan community at the foot of Kanchenjunga, where a retired and reclusive Indian judge lives with his orphan grand-daughter Sai, his cook, and his dog.
And as a minor counterpoint, though somewhat less successful, there is the cook's son Biju, an illegal immigrant in New York, another displaced person trying to scrape out a living and establish an identity.
Desai writes beautifully in short chapters dissected into even shorter images, and her powers as a miniaturist are so beguiling that it is a long time before one becomes fully aware of the larger themes of the book.
It describes the barren lives of characters that have been robbed of love or dignity or some necessary emotion in life, all juxtaposed against the twin backgrounds of an incredibly lush region of the Himalayas and the snarled jungle of New York City.
He, in turn, projects all of his affection on Sai since his own son, Biju, is in New York, struggling and ultimately failing to make a life there.
Both Sai and Biju's experiences bring into question the idea of national identity and what it means to be "Indian" or "American." The topics are certainly explored in a new way but ultimately remain unresolved, which made the novel seem over-ambitious.
Truth be told, I feel like I hated this novel.
To begin with, this novel has no focus; it has some colorful characters, some touching scenes, some inspiring vignettes, an overall well researched amount of data regarding immigration, urbanization, colonization, modernization.
The characters in a story can make up for a lot.
I suppose it makes sense, then, that Mutt serves as a sort of voiceless wheel necessary for the climax in the ending of the novel.
One realizes this only when reading the story as a whole.
I’d like to thank the person who bought this book in Waverley Station, Edinburgh on 2/11/09, probably to read on a train journey, and subsequently left it for me to find in a charity shop on the outskirts of Glasgow.
The inevitable atrocities and their effects on the main characters and general population are related in such a matter of fact way that the tragedy of it all is felt so much more.There is a lot of humour in this book.
Halfway through, I knew I would read this book again.
For the first 150 odd pages, the author proceeds to introduce a multitude of characters, and their pasts, while the reader waits for the plot to show up.
The novel jumps from Sai to Biju and back to the various characters in a manner so haphazard, I could hardly care for any of them.
The last few chapters redeem the book in some way, and I wish the author had maintained that from the start.The book is so dull I could not even hate it - a bunch of vapid characters thrown in against an uninspiring setting is not what I was looking forward to.
I started this book as a before-bed read and found it difficult to get into.
I got to around page 75, then realized I had no idea what was going on, pulled out my bookmark, and promised I'd start afresh in a few weeks.
Boy, am I glad I actually did start it again.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Once I day read it, everything started coming into focus and I couldn't put it down.
The four main characters provide so much food for thought that it's hard to decide who gave the best performance.
I am left emotionally disturbed after finishing this little book.
blown away by the ending...
Loved the full, lush descriptions of The Inheritance of Loss, but wasn't too keen on the lack of focus or a strong main character.
The pov was passed around to a handful of characters in order to show a variety of experiences.
I would've preferred sticking with one or two of them at most, having them shoulder more of the narrative weight, rather than being jostled around so much.
A lot of people seem to like this one, so perhaps chalk up the low rating to my taste in narrative style and read it with your own fresh eyes, un-emcumbered by my own albatross neck ware.
Di sản của mất mát biến mọi kiêu hãnh về văn hóa, học thức, sắc tộc... trờ thành một trò lố đạo đức giả rất-là-bự; và ngược lại, nó biến mọi thứ lố bịch thành niềm kiêu hãnh.
I admit I felt slightly apprehensive, thinking that as a Booker Prize winner it must be a difficult, challenging read.Then the book was chosen as the March title for the SYP Oxford Book Club and I suddenly had both a very good reason and a deadline for reading it.The story is set in Kalimpong in India, far north-east in the Himalayan mountains, near Bhutan and Nepal.
Indians migrating for better life opportunities to Europe and USA and the movement of Gorkhaland in Kalimpong.The main crux of the story is when you feel out the place what you do?
You put out all your disgust and frustration on that person because the world was unfair to you.The description of the illegal immigrants living like rats, all stuffed in one small filthy room away from home away from family is heart breaking.This book covers one of the most brutal movement of 1986 when the insurgency by Gorkhas took a very violent turn.The Gorkhaland movement chaos, strikes and riots and how it affected the normal people, the war like situation described by Kiran desai gives you goosebumps.There are Smartly woven 2 contradicting stories of Jemubhai and Biju who left India for better life and what they got and what they turned out i loved the contradiction.This book is depressing and thought provoking at the same time.
Another Mann Booker prize winner this time from India.
The first, and perhaps longest, lesson of the book is a new, to me, kind of poverty - inherited.
One fascinating insight is the Hindu attitude to Islam - that Islam is so strict and so counterintuitive to human behavior that no one actually follows it.
The Hindu says, 'it makes them all hypocrites, they drink at home and try to look pius in public.'It is a fascinating book, well written, well plotted, well-'everything'.

I am being generous with this second star, and it's here because I can't relate to India with its English (post) colonisation but I find it interesting.
But I still think this book is rather difficult to read and therefore difficult to like; I was really struggling.
Desai’s characterisation is flat.
She tried to do so much- the plot itself is great, but I couldn’t connect and it’s not because I am not an Indian so I don’t get the mentality, but because her writing was – unstable.
Emotionless.
Not a single moment did I start caring for any of them, even more, I've skipped last 100 pages in 20 minutes.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠١٤القهر والشعور بالنبذ والإنسحاق هو شعور الكثير من سكان العالم الثالث عندما ينظرون للغرب الثري والناجح
. .” she said to his mumble, leaned forward to scoop up his words, but his voice ran back and out as he dissolved into tears of shops, and when he bought a shaving brush and the shop girl said her husband owned the same item exactly, at the acknowledgment of their identical human needs, the intimacy of their connection, shaving, husband, he was overcome at the boldness of the suggestion.””the unbearable intimacy of brand names”“in this life, he remembered again, you must stop your thoughts if you wished to remain intact, or guilt and pity would take everything from you, even yourself from yourself”“all the judge had worked so hard to separate would soften and envelop him in its nightmare, and the barrier between this life and eternity would in the end, no doubt, be just another such failing construct”“What was a country but the idea of it?
Short synopsis; 4 Stars for this one because it was beautifully written and I learned a lot about the history of the Gurkhas and the uprising in 1986 in Nepal, and much about Indian immigration to the USA & the UK and life for "illegals in America.
Yet again I have pages of notes & no time soon to write a full report.
It's also about racism and the caste system and as the name implies the inheritance of loss from previous generations.
While I've given it 4 stars the ending seemed rushed and incomplete.
More soon - well whenever I finish these neverending course assignments.
