https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1837657.The_Dead_Stay_Dumb
NOTE: This is an incorrect edition. The correct title is:  Cold, relentless account of a hardened criminal who longs to be another Dillinger but in reality is just a blood simple maniac using his fists and assorted guns to brutalize weaker associates.A minor pulp masterpiece, not as well known as his 1st novel No Orchids For Miss Blandish, this novel clocks in at a mere 160 pages.Almost every character in this book that I developed any kind of fondness for, warm impressions of, winds up murdered
Cold, relentless account of a hardened criminal who longs to be another Dillinger but in reality is just a blood simple maniac using his fists and assorted guns to brutalize weaker associates.A minor pulp masterpiece, not as well known as his 1st novel No Orchids For Miss Blandish, this novel clocks in at a mere 160 pages.Almost every character in this book that I developed any kind of fondness for, warm impressions of, winds up murdered at the hands of the overly ambitious thug, Dillon - the main character.
Blood came out of her mouth again as she fell forward."
Many years ago, I had read No Orchids for Miss Blandish, the novel that made Chase's reputation.
(And sooner or later, they all do.)It's interesting that the author of so many gangster novels set in America was not only British (his real name was René Lodge Brabazon Raymond) but made only two brief visits to the United States.
Of course, I have not read his later work, much of which was set in his native land.If I were to read more than one or two of Chase's novels in a year, I would definitely feel as if I were slumming.
Dillon - an incredibly evil, vicious killer, gunman without a conscience.
Everywhere he goes the dead men - and women - are in profusion; whether it be his closest "pal" Roxy, his "woman", Myra, those giving him breaks, associates...ultimately he guns them down or somewhat batters them to death.
His ambition has no limits and he is the ultimate cold, unconscionable savage killer.
Myra, his "woman" meets a horrific end, but how does one pity her when the girl pitches tent with the man (Dillon) who ruthlessly guns her blind father down in cold blood?
I understand that this author turned to full-time writing after his very first novel was published (No Orchid for Miss Blandish) and since this is only his second novel, the quality is really quite remarkable.Make no mistake, this is one hard-boiled crime story.
And the more power he gets, the easier it is for him to take the easy way forward and simply eliminate his competition.The story is rounded out with a handful of important characters that are associated with Dillon.
Many times, they actually feel like the main character of the story, particularly Myra, who becomes a gun moll for Dillon.
I guess we all read that Crime does not pay and this one tells you that in one of the most horrible ways ever.It also subtly states that when you chase women, the ending of an already horrible death will be more horrible... :)))Sounds a little screwy but a great read. Love it.
It may only be his second novel, but how brilliantly he brings to life a story of gangsters, you can picture this in the early 1900's another short but thrilling tale.....
ΒΙΠΕΡ Νο.380ΔΕΝ ΜΙΛΟΥΝ ΟΣΟΙ ΠΕΘΑΙΝΟΥΝ
সেলুনে মদযপানের সাথে গলপ-গুজব চলছে। কিছুকষণ আগে বুচ হোগানের মেয়ে তার বাবার জনয মদ কিনতে এসেছিলো। আকরষণীয়া মিস হোগানকে নিয়ে চলছিলো জলপনা-কলপনা। এমন সময় বারে লমবা একজন মানুষের ছায়া পড়লো। বারটেনডারের কাছে গিয়ে সে পানি চাইলো। বারটেনডার জানালো, এখানে পানি বিকরি হয় না। লোকটা আবারও তার কাছে পানি চাইলো। তার শীতল চাহনিতে ভয় পেয়ে বারটেনডার তাকে পানির বোতল দিলো। পানি খেয়ে বিদায় হতে বললো। এযাবি শুরু থেকেই লকষয করছিলো তাকে। তার কাছে মনে হয়েছে লোকটা কষুধারত। লোকটাকে সে তার দোকানে খাবার খেতে যাবার পরামরশ দিলো।
আর ডিলন..
সে আসলে কে?সেই চল্লিশের দশকে জেমস হ্যাডলি চেজ আগাগোড়া একজন খলচরিত্রকে নিয়ে বই লেখার সাহস দেখিয়েছেন। বইয়ের মূল চরিত্র ডিলনের মাঝে মানবিকতার ছিটেফোঁটাও নেই। এমন অনেক বই পড়েছি যেখানে মূল চরিত্র খল হলেও তার মধ্যে অনেক মানবিক গুণাবলী দেখা যায়। দ্য ডেড স্টে ডাম্ব বইতে এমন সুযোগ নেই। ডিলন আগাগোড়া একজন খল মানুষ এবং সে কাউকে কোনো সুযোগ দেয় না।চেজের বাকী বইগুলোর মত এখানেও সুন্দরী রমণী রয়েছে। তবে তাকে ঘিরে কাহিনী আবর্তিত হয়নি। কাহিনী সংক্ষেপ পড়ে বাকী অংশ আন্দাজ করা যাবে না। এরপর প্লটের বিস্তৃতি গড়িয়েছে আরও বহুদূরে। খুব ভালো লেগেছে বলবো না। কোনো চরিত্রের প্রতি ভালো লাগা কাজ করেনি বলেই হয়তো। তবে ভিন্নধর্মী একটি এ্যাকশন থ্রিলার পড়তে চাইলে পড়ে দেখতে পারেন।
Best book by JHC, out of the few that i have read.
It has some rugged appeal, there is no loveable character, but you love to hate most of them, and the one most hatable is the one that most impresses you.
I have'nt come across any other character like Dillon in any of the fiction work i have read so far.
JHC succeeds 100% in keeping your interest intact all the way to climax.I hope one day some fine director will attempt to make a movie in this awesome book.
Super hardboiled saga of Dillon, a horrific criminal on the make. Very little fat as far as extraneous description or dialog, but the plot does meander a bit. Thrilling, violent and misogynistic, or perhaps more appropriately misanthropic. Intense thrills.
2.5 stars.A considerable letdown from my previous chase book "Knock Knock,Who's There".The story lin
An entertaining read. The action was fast and keeps the reader turning the pages.Read more at my blog:The Dead Stay Dumb
Compared to other novels of Hadley Chase this was little boring after a while :(, interesting in the beginning and pretty lame in the end especially the dillon character
a book on underworld, the dark potbelly of haunted, gruel, evil and frightening part of this real world
