https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34541.Carpe_Jugulum
Go for the throat!That may not be the exact translation for Carpe Jugulum, the title to Terry Pratchett’s 1998 Discworld novel (and 23rd in the series) but it describes Pratchett’s approach to a searing roast of a parody for vampire lit.Published seven years before Stephenie Meyer’s Twilight books, this does not make fun of that vampire interpretation, but Sir Terry does poke good fun at all things vampire when a family of the undead come down out of Uberwald and subtly invades Lancre.
Fans of the Tiffany Aching sub-series will want to read this as well to get a very early glimpse of the drinking, fighting and stealing tiny heroes.Good fun.
YOU ARE GOOD AT CHOOSING, I BELIEVE."Is there any advice you could be givin' me?" said Granny.CHOOSE RIGHT.This one is all about choices: life or death, justice or mercy, to obey blindly or to fight back...Vampires have taken over Lancre, and it's up to the witches and a befuddled priest to kick some bat!Oh, my, how I loved this book!
There's more of them and they'll make your ankles all wet.Talks back to a vampire - "I'm fed up with you smarming at me smarmily as if you were Mr. Smarm!"And gives advice to Agnes on how to tame one of the bloodsuckers by using feminine wiles - "Marry him, said Nanny firmly.
Pratchett satirizes vampire myth and legend in this Discworld novel.
Actually one of the grimmer Discworld novels I've read.
I recommend this one highly, but I think you need to have read the other "Witch" novels first, that would be Equal Rites,Wyrd Sisters, Witches Abroad, Lords and Ladies, and Maskerade.One thing I noticed in this book was that Pratchett did an excellent job of a technique that Edgar Rice Burroughs used to do very well; that is have multiple narratives going with all the characters finally converging together at the climax of the story.
The bickering between the witches, the family fights between the vampires, Igor’s wanting to make everything dusty and covered in spider webs and longing for the old-school days of his master, the Falconer’s obsession with trying to catch a bird he’s never seen, the Wee Free Men stealing anything they can get their hands on, and even Greebo.The pace of the book is unbelievably quick, numerous characters come and go and you’ll find yourself wondering how all of this will tie in together.
I can attest to that first hand, I read way past my bedtime to finish the book because the action never stopped long enough for me to stick in a bookmark.
This has been my favorite Discworld subseries, mainly because Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg have been so much fun, so I’ll miss it.
This is also the first subseries I’ve completed, unless you count Ancient Civilizations which consists of two loosely-related books grouped under that heading in The Discworld Reading Order Guide.The title is a pretty good hint about the story: Carpe Jugulum, seize the throat.
(view spoiler)[With this being the last Witches book and with all of the false foreshadowing, I spent most of this book worried that Granny Weatherwax would be dead or something by the end.
Anyway, I needed some kind of catharsis after the sad news, so I looked at my shelves and grabbed Carpe Jugulum.
It was likely to kill him, but he met the challenge with resolve, struggled on despite how difficult his debilitating disease must have made it, and continued his service to both the Discworld and our round world for as long as he could.I suppose this has been more of a tribute to the author than a book review, but I recommend this book.
I recommend all of the Discworld books.
Another wild tale from Discworld.
This one involves the witches, Granny, Nanny, Magrat and Agnes as well as a host of vampires, an insipid priest of Om, masses of wild little blue men and an angry Igor.
Magrat, now married to her handsome prince, the King of Lancre is now a mother and he has invited all and sundry, including the vampires to the castle for the christening.
Once invited the vampires decide the castle is rather nice and start moving in their coffins.As usual, lots of fun and witty satire as the witches and the priest take on the vampires.
I can’t believe I just finished the last Discworld book in the Witches series.
Wait, I think there’s still a couple in the Tiffany Aching stories I haven’t read yet, maybe those count?
I may never reach Acceptance, though, because I am really going to miss Granny and Nanny Ogg and Magrat and Agnes/Perdita.
Mostly Granny, though.
I sure hope she makes some cameo appearances in the other books I haven’t read yet.
Carpe Jugulum was fun.
So much fun that I mostly blew off watching the ALCS and stayed up waaaay past my bedtime during the work week to finish.
This one's a bit batty29 July 2016 - Frankfurt I don't know what it is with these Terry Pratchet novels but I found it really hard to get into this one. Okay, while I do find vampire stories rather boring, and cliched, this is Pratchett, and he always seems to be able to add some new twists to the tired old stories that many of us shy away from. Okay, maybe it was because I started reading it on a plane, and continued reading it on a plane, and finished it off in Frankfurt while I was still suff
This is a very western thing because in other cultures people don't actually need an invitation to enter somebody's dwelling – they just rock up whenever they want to, and it is actually quite rude to get upset when they go barging into your house.
Though I'm not quite sure where this whole invitation thing arose from because the Greeks, and the Romans, where very sociable people and they lived in a society when anybody and everybody simply rocked up when they wanted to.
I'm on the verge of a reading slump and just can't find anything that interests me. I'm turning to my old familiar stand-by: short stories. I hope it works.DNF-No Rating.
And this was just exactly the right balance of satire, genuine laugh out loud humor, and sneaky pathos that I prefer in my Discworld books.But, hey, is this really the last of the Witches books?
(Even Magrat.
Much more forceful, and less of a limp dishrag.)Firstly, this is a clever satire of vampire fiction.
Vampires (who are modern and now actually prefer to be called vampyres) have invaded Lancre, because King Verence (who was trying to be diplomatic) actually invited them.
Pro tip: never invite a vampire anywhere.
Except these vampires are smart.
It's never something he beats you over the head with, but you come away from the book, not just entertained, but also provoked to think about things like religion and faith and modernity and what makes a person who they are.
Even if I don't always agree with the way Pratchett sees the world, he always delineates his views with such clarity and such precision, that I really love it.The Nac Mac Feegle are also the best thing ever.
Trigger warnings: death of a dog.
29/5/2017This is probably still my favourite Pratchett book.
Rereading it this time, I couldn't help but notice JUST HOW MANY MENTIONS there are of Agnes being fat.
It's not always negative - sometimes it's self-deprecating humour from Agnes, sometimes it's just matter-of-fact observation.
I can't help but give it five stars.
14/10/2013This book is hands down my favourite Pratchett book for reasons that I can't quite explain.
I love his vampires-who've-decided-to-join-the-modern-world story, and I adore the Witches of Lancre in pretty much anything.
There's not only the Witches of Lancre, but some hilarious cameos from Death.
I've only read this one once before, and that ten years ago, so I didn't remember much, and didn't remember the Nac Mac Feegle were in it. And Greebo. Plus the whole Omnian question, and the christening. A delight, but by no means a simple one. Is there another writer who makes me feel so kindly toward other people? Dickens, Austen, Vonnegut all appeal to the same part of my brain, but none of them puts me in such charity with humanity, although Christmas Carol comes a close second.Personal copy
Now this was unexpectedly one of my favorites of the whole Discworld so far!Below my two perhaps favorite citations from this one:She'd changed as soon as the others had entered.
Before, she'd been bowed and tired.
It's not a black and white issue.
There are so many shades of grey.''Nope.''Pardon?''There's no greys, only white that's got grubby.
And sin, young man, is when you treat people as things.
That's what sin is.''It's a lot more complicated than that-''No. It ain't.
When people say things are a lot more complicated than that, they means they're getting worried that they won't like the truth.
I have no idea how Terry Pratchett isn't more famous than JK Rowling. I love Harry Potter but that was one series that ended up getting screwed in the end while Pratchett wrote loads of books that never ever waver in quality and narrative.Also, he happens to be one of the fairest people in character invention. Strong female heros who aren't pretty or thin and quirky and perfect? Yes please. Yes.
Like this book because,1. Fat girls rule. Pratchett writes a real fat girl.2. Vampires with bite!
Good read as I do love most of the Witches books. Not the best but definitely not the worst and parts of excellent. Granny Weatherwax will always be a favourite!
But boy, when I'm reading it I sure remember.This is a grand tale about some witches that live in a small kingdom on the rim of the Discworld, one of whom has married its progressive, modern king, and had a baby who's due for a christening.
Unfortunately, one of those kingdoms is ruled by vampires, in particular, by a family of very modern and progressive vampires, who understand that garlic is delicious, that the effect of sunlight on them is purely psychosomatic, and that religious symbols are practically everywhere, and don't have to mean a darn thing to them.

The best book in the witch-series so far. So awesome! Must read.
It's true what people say, that you enjoy his books very much when you've read some of the others - and as far as I'm concerned that's because his characters are so loveable.
Fortunately, you feel that for other characters you've never read about before - poor Mightily Oats - so I shouldn't think that newcomers to Pratchett will miss out on much.I hear from various places this is essentially a reworking of the premise in 'Lords and Ladies', only with vampires instead of elves, which makes sense.
The book is, as far as I'm concerned, not his best - but it'll do very nicely indeed.
Dear Sir Terry,There has never been a writer like you.
You have left the Fantasy genre permanently damaged, wait, no ,I mean  changed .
You created the most amazing characters.
Instead you gave us complexity and hilarity.
In other hands, Nanny Ogg would have just been comic relief.
You gave us the Mrs Ogg.Your plots may seem silly, occasionally, but that's half the point, isn't it?
In their oddness, you gave us serious.
You gave us real life.
After all, life doesn't have a set tone.
Sir Terry, I hope Death took you for apprentice.
This particular comedy is (as you may be able to discern from the title) about vampires.
Vampires and a girl named Agnes Nitt, who struggles sometimes to suppress her alternate personality, Perdita.
To paraphrase a quote from Pratchett, "Inside every fat girl is a thin girl and a lot of chocolate." Agnes' alternate personality is explained by the fact that Perdita is the thin girl inside.
I love this book, it's good for an hour or two of laughs, and I've always been partial to the title.
I recommend it to anyone who enjoys vampire comedy at its best.
Carpe jugulum paroduje upírov, náboženstvo a kult prehnaného rodičovstva :) Záverečný čarodejnícky diel, škoda, ale našťastie ma čakajú ďalšie subsérie Zeměplochy.Posledná (dvoj)veta:Nápis na lepence hlásal "Já pořád ještě nejsem mrtvá". Po několika minutách se na nedalekém stromě probudila sova a vznesla se nad noční prales.
Nevarētu teikt, ka šī ir labākā Diskzemes grāmata, bet stāsta noslēgums un skatījums uz reliģiju bija lielisks.
Granny storms off into the wilderness when she doesn't get an invite to the chrisening of the Kings daughter. Which leaves everyone in Lancre struggling to deal with the Magpyr invasion on their own. But the Count should have known better than cross a Weatherwax.
There's something about the stories involving the Witches from the town of Lancre that seems to bring out the best in Terry's storytelling.
The crone, the matron and the maiden find their trifecta in a state of musical chairs as Vampire are invited to Lancre by a very PC king.
The matron becomes the crone, the maiden becomes - well - the apple of a younger vampire eyes, and the new maiden in the unlikely form of a new priest who's setup shop in town.These vampires are powerful, fast, control the weather, can read minds, and change form.
This is probably now one of my favourite Discworld novels, not only does it have my three favourite witches including the legend that is Granny Weatherwax but it is also jam packed with vampires of makes and models from the old style garlic hating kind to the more modern not bothered by anything kind.
And in steps Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg and Young Agnes to stop them the only way they know how, with magic.
If you only ever read one Discworld book in your life (although why you would limit yourself like that I do not know) this needs to be it, along with most if not all of the others!
I was just a little bit worried during the first few pages, this book didn't feel as strong as the previous ones in the Witches series there, but it picked itself up quickly and stayed good. It wasn't as good as some of the other ones (Maskerade and Lords and Ladies both felt stronger to me, though not by much), but it was definitely good. The one area where it absolutely excelled, however, was its insight in religion and, to a lesser extent, human nature. Religion mostly though.
