https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84133.Devil_May_Cry
Feb 12, 2014  “It's not fair to show someone the sun and then to banish him from it. Even the devil may cry when he looks around hell and realizes that he's there alone.”  Devil May Cry is the story of Sin of Sumeria and Katra Agrotera. Kat already appeared in previous books of the series. She is the daughter of (view spoiler)[Artemis and Acheron (hide spoiler)], bearer of not only unimaginable power and strength, but also kindness and honesty. She is fair-minded and caring.Sin is an ancient Sum
She is the daughter of (view spoiler)[Artemis and Acheron (hide spoiler)], bearer of not only unimaginable power and strength, but also kindness and honesty.
She is fair-minded and caring.Sin is an ancient Sumerian ex-god of the Moon and Fertility, with stolen powers and undying hatred and hunger for revenge.Kat is sent to kill Sin, an assignment with which she didn’t agree even initially.
Artemis smiled through her tears as she lifted the blanket higher around Kat's shoulders.
You can't make mistakes."Artemis took Kat's small hand into hers and placed a tender kiss on it.
"Is there something I can help with?""No," Kat said petulantly.
Earth’s only salvation is Sin. An ex Sumerian God who has lost his powers because of Artemis and Acheron helped him become a Dark Hunter and live forever, Besides killing any Gallu, Sin’s main task is to revenge his lost life and his lost people.
He basically wants to make Artemis suffer before he kills her.When Sin meets Katra and learns that she is the daughter of his worst enemy and at the same time the daughter of his best benefactor, he is bewildered.
I'm just saying... you hold on to your virginity for eleven thousand years waiting for "the one", maybe it's not a good idea to give it away to a guy you just met a couple of days ago. A crazy guy...who wants to kill your whole family... and hates you...It reminds me of a song:Hey, I just met you,And you hate me,So, here's my hymen,Call me, Crazy!! I guess she just got tired of waiting...So, this book is about Katra and Sin. Sin is also known as Nana. I don't know about you, but a guy named Nana
you hold on to your virginity for eleven thousand years waiting for "the one", maybe it's not a good idea to give it away to a guy you just met a couple of days ago.
A crazy guy...who wants to kill your whole family...
There are only two things that come to mind when I think "Nana": 
I don't know what rocks your boat, and frankly, if either of these do, I don't want to know.Katra is sent to kill Sin/Nana, by Artemis, but she decides to give him her eleven thousand year old virginity instead.
Her ability to take ancient myths and build a modern story around the, filling the story with lovable or hateable characters with the human quirks that make a reader keep reading, is a great gift.
But there is a familial reunion in this book guaranteed to bring tears to your eyes if you are a Dark-Hunter fan.
I love the wit and the humor in these Dark-Hunter books.
love how she intertwines mythology along with the things that surely come out of her great imagination in her books.
If you are a fan of his (of course you are), you need to read this book.
I feel like such a bad person for dislikeing this book. I mean so many people loved it, saying stuff like this is my favorite out of the whole series ect. I just couldn’t see it. I couldn’t connect with either of the main characters. I didn’t the plot and I sure as hell didn’t like the end. Full review to come.

3.5/5It's really hard for me to rate this book!
I'm torn between giving it 3 or 4 stars.
This is a good story but I found it moved quite slowly, and somehow I grew a bit bored around the middle of the book.
Just when I thought about giving it 3 stars, there was something holding me back.
Besides, the last 10% could make me wide awake and I found the ending was pretty impressive.After weighing everything and my overall feelings carefully, I decided to push my rating up to 4 stars!
The story was very entertaining, but the romance was surprisingly dull!Thousands of years ago the Greek Goddess Artemis stole the powers of Sin, the Sumerian Fertility God, before the rest of her Pantheon waged an underhanded war of manipulation that ended with the whole Sumerian Pantheon being wiped out.
Despite the fact that both Katra and Sin were likable characters with fascinating back stories I felt their romance was a bit dull.
The disappointing romance was only in minor flaw and it did not stop this being another really fun installment of the ever entertaining Dark-Hunter series.
I LOVED it! Sin is a Sumerian Fertility God whos powers were removed by Artemis thousands of years ago. Katra is one of Artemis's Kori who is sent by Artemis to kill Sin. After traking him down, and getting to know him a bit, she finds all that Artemis says may not be the truth. Shocker. Katra finally gets to meet her father, Ash. Not many books make me cry, but I teared up when Ash finally learns of her existance after eleven thousand years, and gets to meet her. He is just so wonderful!
“How can anyone be afraid of love?”“How can they not?” His face was completely aghast.
You give them a part of yourself that you give to no one else, and you let them inside a part of you that only they can hurt—you literally hand them the razor with a map of where to cut deepest and most painfully on your heart and soul.
And when they do strike, it’s crippling—like having your heart carved out.
It leaves you naked and exposed, wondering what you did to make them want to hurt you so badly when all you did was love them.
I LOVED IT!
I LOVED IT!
*heart eyes*P.S.: Ash is back!
These things, as well as being a huge fan of Acheron and very much wanting to read his story, have kept me coming back and slowly working my way though the series.
When I'm feeling like taking my red editor's pen to a book and rewriting passages in my head while reading, it isn't a good sign.Now that I'm a writer myself and learning the do's and don't's of writing, I keep seeing more and more writing no-no's in Ms. Kenyon's work.
Loved this book!!
I also Love that Katra can hold her own and take Bs from Sin but she can give it back to him.
They both have this way with each other it is perfect..Plus we also get to see more of Ash and learn a little but more about him too..I love him in this book when he finds out that kat is his daughter *sniffs* it is so lovely!!I couldn't put this book down, I never got board reading it and there is so much to learn from this Dark Hunter book...I laughed at so many part's and i cried at so many part's if you haven't read this one it is a MUST read!!
He did not even voice Simi, my favorite character, even close to how she sounded before.
But he folded like a house of cards for Artemis so he lost points.
The girl has serious bad genes and has already proven to be untrustworthy and totally a puppet to Artemis.
Katya was a bitch disguised as a good girl.
I know most people liked her and she was not terrible, but her unwavering support of her mother (Artemis), knowing all she knows, makes me lose all respect for her.
TSTL!!!!Best - but saddest - scene in the book was Katya and Ash meeting.
It's exciting, has an interesting plot, and a wide range of a variety of characters.However, if you (like me) are hoping for a good romance, a good love story - you are S.O.L.Two immortal, all-powerful beings fall in love with each other.
These characters' dialogue and presence added some much-needed spice to the book.This is very much a 'Kenyon world-building' book and for that reason the romance and love plot suffers greatly.
That should tell you everything you need to know.P.S. I almost forgot the part that really pissed me off!!!!Kenyon is trying to convince me that 11,000-year-old Katra is a virgin.
De los buenos dentro de la saga, pero no de los sobresalientes. Los puntos se los lleva principalmente por la entrega de una gran cantidad de información sobre el entorno mítico que rodea a los Cazadores Oscuros y, por supuesto, de su líder Aquerón. Nuevos enemigos... nuevos aliados... enemigos que se transforman en aliados... muchísima acción y mucha química en la pareja que protagoniza esta entrega. Sí, bien bueno.
I absolutely loved it, my fave of all of the Dark Hunter books so far.
They have a plan to destroy mankind, and it’s up to a small group of heroes to save the world (again!) in a very exciting and action packed finale.This book also contains the mother of all bombshells and I’m not ashamed to say that when I read it I became a gushing, squeeing moron (seriously - I was in a room with my sleeping children at the time, and I squeed so loud I woke one of them up).
I LOVED learning about Kat! She had had a few appearance before this but this one was the real one.Ash finally knows he has a kid!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!🤯😍❤Smart of Artemis to make him promise to never kill her. Kind of mad about that though. Sometimes she deserves to die.I loved the end bit where Sin was eager to make Artemis sad/mad about her being a grandmother! 🤣The gallu demons are ferocious. I'm glad they are mostly defeated. MOSTLY.
I love how certain characters just know that they've fallen in love fast and hard.
What I didn't like was how Acheron was instantly a father and how his daughter kept calling him daddy.
(Don't boo me yet..) I know that he is Simi's "dad" but I just felt that that type of intimacy between a father and daughter came a little to fast for me.
I can see Simi talking with Acheron that way, but not Kat (one of the most sarcastic heroines in SK's books).
And as far as the level of sarcasm in this particular book....It was on the borderline of being over the top corny.
Acabo de terminar este libro y lo he amado! Sin se ha robado mi corazón. Y el giro que da la historia. Ocurrieron muchas cosas que no las puedo ni creer y que si las digo son un gran spoiler ! Pero agradezco que Ash haya vuelto a aparecer; y me encantó conocer tanto de su pasado a través de este libro. Las cosas en el mundo de los cazadores oscuros se esta retorciendo mucho y eso ME ENCANTA.
Loved this one!! It's almost like each story becomes more juicier the more you learn about this world.
Exciting thrill ride with the characters we all have grown to love during the rest of the series. Really enjoyed this book.
I WANTED to like this book.
Unfortunately, it fell flat compared to the other DH books.
No matter how much i tried, i simply couldn't force myself to care about, or even really like Kat. Her character has grated on my nerves since her first appearance in the series.
Sin forgiving Kat so easily for what she had done to him in the past, being the main bone of contention for me.
He spent a lifetime being bitter and angry about losing his godhood, only to end up forgiving the woman responsible, in a matter of hours?
This book was recommended to me, but I guess I should have started at the beginning of the series.
The author has a vivid imagination which comes alive on the pages, but I could not appreciate the intricate background of the characters without reading the previous Dark Hunter books.
My rating is based on the merit of the series and the worlds that the author creates, but as mentioned, it would be best to start this series from the beginning.
I really enjoyed the Goodreads reviews of this book, especially from my friends, which actually helped me to appreciate my reading experience.
Este es uno de esos libros que estaba esperando. Los dos o tres últimos (especialmente el último) no me estaban gustando tanto como los anteriores pero este ha cambiado la tónica totalmente y se agradece. Me ha gustado lo de meter nuevos panteones, y sobre todo si es sumerio, que nunca había leído sobre él. Además, conocemos nuevas cosas sobre Aquerón, lo que siempre es un punto a favor.Reseña completa en:http://mislibrosestanaqui.blogspot.co...
En mi opinión vuelve a remontar.Además, me comí hace años un spoiler bien gordo jajaja así que necesitaba poder leer esta historia ^^PD: ¡A tomar por saco el 4.5! le tengo que dar el 5 y punto!
La verdad es que odié a Katra por un buen rato pero Sin tampoco es lo que se dice muy amable, aunque tenía sus razones. Me encanta que Kenyon haya juntado a estos dos, creo que era lo que se merecía la maldita de Artemisa.
I enjoyed this much more than the last book. An added bonus...more Archeron! Really good addition to the series. Feels like things are back on track. A Must Read!
Now we know why Kat served Artemis and Appolomy.Kat's powers are like a conductor where she can be used to take powers from a god.Sin is an ex-god (fertility god) that Artemis hates but Acheron saved his life along time ago, Sin is not a darkhunter but he is used to kill the other evil called gallu instead of the deamons like Stryker.Simi (I love her and her BBQ sauce)and her sister had more action in this story and so did the dream gods.
The seventh addition to Sherrilyn Kenyon's Dark Hunter series. Katra, the daughter of Artemis and Acheron, is sent to kill Sin Nanna, a Sumerian fertility god that Artemis betrayed. Artemis believes that Sin is getting ready to come after her for revenge. But Katra finds that Sin has another agenda that needs to be taken care.I have not been reading this series in order but for this one I don't really think I needed to. I liked and enjoyed this book. I still prefer The League series over this one but I'm beginning to understand people's obsession with this series.
