https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30183198-history-of-wolves
Well, it wasn’t because of the Wolves as there is no physical presence of the animals in the pages of this novel.
The novel jumps forward and back in time, sometimes sloppily, as other complained, but most of the time the plot device succeeds to maintain tension.
I thought the same way but the ending put things together nicely in a major argument.
The setting plays an important part in the construction of the novel.
Below are the links for two interesting interviews with the author that you might want to check after you read this novel.
In the middle of December so much snow fell that the gym roof buckled, and school was cancelled for a week.”Emily Fridlund’s debut novel is a moving story of a young girl who lives on the land of a former commune-type community.
No one’s lived across the lake from where Madeline lives with her parents, until her second year in High School, when Patra and Paul Gardner start appearing after a house is built.
With little parent supervision, 14 year old Linda is left to grow up like a weed in Northern Minnesota.
Like a stalker....she followed Lily to the High School, through the empty halls, down a dark staircase, past the gym door, passed a trophy case.
She knew that Lily's mother had died in a car accident when she was 12 years old.
Linda knew that Lily went to see a special teacher during homeroom for dyslexic.
In the meantime, for $10 a day, Linda babysits a little boy named Paul from 3-5pm every day after school.
She is isolated and searching for some connection through a new teacher and a popular girl, Lily, that she follows secretly but isn’t a friend.The Gardner family moves in across the lake and Madeline forms a bond with Petra and her young son Paul.
Beliefs and inaction put the young child in harms way and the consequences are explored in the end.Other subplots are hinted at in Madeline’s story - obsession, child neglect, bullying, and child pornography, but only touched upon.
I enjoyed the way the author wrapped up the plot and subplot in the end.A beautifully written book.5 out of 5 stars
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. An atmospheric coming-of-age with subtle tension and a plodding plot. Where Fridlund succeeds at transporting her audience to the chilled forest and snowy setting of History of Wolves, her wooden characters, whose actions lead to a limp reveal, leave something to be desired.
Linda is by herself most of the time doing chores at home, poor household, and she seems socially inept with her classmates, etcA family moves in across the lake, a mother, father,and young son which Linda ends up babysitting often.
This was heartbreaking!The story goes back and forth between time periods, Linda as a grownup and Linda as a 15 year old.
I really don't believe this girl ever connected with anyone in her life like she did the young boy and his mother, and that made me so sad for her.
Her parents (an uncertainty if they really are), her fellow students, one questionable teacher, and a young couple that she provides child care for are the cogs turning in this wheel for Linda.
Linda follows Lily, the school beauty, and wishes to walk the steps of her life.
When a serious situation develops with Paul, Linda trembles with hesitation and, consequently, is left with inertia.
It will haunt her and stunt her spiritual mindset from that day forward.History of Wolves is beautifully written by Emily Fridlund.
This story is seen through the eyes of young Linda and what teenager doesn't go off into a tangent.
Her story moves back and forth in time, focusing on a few specific story lines -- things that happen between a teacher and another girl at school, neighbours who have an ill son and their issues Linda can't quite grasp, and her later years working a string of bad jobs hanging out with a roommate and a boyfriend.
Some of the most interesting parts of the story seem too undeveloped or fragmented to be entirely satisfying --for example, Linda's parents and the commune backstory, and the story involving the neighbours.
Other parts feel like superfluous clutter -- like the story involving her school mate and teacher, and her later years with the boyfriend and roommate.
The book powerfully – and with beautifully skilled writing that reviews have also consistently noted – explores themes including, but certainly not limited to, the idea of “Nature, red in tooth and claw,” the inevitable and often brutal cycles of nature in which humans also participate.No longer having the book on hand, I can’t quote exactly, but at one point in the novel, protagonist Linda, who lives in rusticity and poverty in rural Northern Minnesota, reflects that outsiders often marvel that isn’t she scared to live so deeply within the isolated severity of the often dark and frozen woods?
Madeline/Maddie/Linda is raised in a commune and living in the deserted remains of it in a cabin in northern Minnesota .
Telling us her story as an adult, the narrative moved around in time, but mostly it's about what happens when she's 14 .
There was a sadness about her from the beginning and she seems aware even as a teenager of how the circumstances of her life have shaped her, but it wasn't until towards the end that I realized that even as an adult, what happened in the past will always impact who she is .
"Maybe if I'd been someone else I'd see it differently. But isn't that the crux of the problem? Wouldn't we all act differently if we were someone else?" Coming of ages novels, especially ones not aimed at young adult readers, can be a tricky business. Too much time spent on the character's age and youthful struggles and you risk losing the reader and the plot; but not enough time focused on that incredibly challenging period of life when you're coming into your own and learning to see the worl
"Maybe if I'd been someone else I'd see it differently.
Too much time spent on the character's age and youthful struggles and you risk losing the reader and the plot; but not enough time focused on that incredibly challenging period of life when you're coming into your own and learning to see the world in new and often bleak and pessimistic ways, and the thread of the novel comes undone.
I'm hesitant to say anything about the plot of this novel because I went into it with virtually no knowledge of the story and enjoyed the process of discovery.
The second hyped book of January 2017,  The History of Wolves  touches on many random topics including family, pedophilia, loyalty, love and faith and yet none of these hard hitting themes fully resonated with me. The narrator is 37 year old Madeline who remembers a pivotal moment in her life when she was 14. Her memories meander and continually bounce from topic to topic, from time period to time period. She recalls a teacher being arrested on child pornography charges; the time she spent with
I really didn't like anyone in the book, including Madeline or Linda or whatever her name was.
She was apathetic and indifferent to almost everything, and even when she took some kind of action it felt contrived, like when she went to the drugstore to get aspirin for Paul, not because she cared about him but because she felt she had to do it since his wack job parents weren't going to do it.
When she tells Madeline that she and Paul came to Minnesota while her husband stayed in Hawaii for work.
I have such mixed feelings about this book! The writing is very good, but at the same time the narration is very detached and meandering. I don't understand the ending at all.I appreciate the craftsmanship but it did not resonate with me.
It was actually a lot more interesting than I had been led to expect, and just about deserved a place on the longlist, but in view of the strength of some of the books that were omitted from the shortlist, I can't really back the decision to include it there, though at least Fridlund is a promising young writer who will benefit more than the likes of Auster and Saunders.For me this book was quite strong on atmosphere - I felt she described the landscape of northern Minnesota very well.
(Of course, if Linda actually did want to rebel, what better way?)A problem with hippies, back in the day, was it was all do your own thing .
But I digress.Linda knows and loves the woods and the lake, the wildlife, the canoe, better than her parents.
complete strangers said this to me, people I’d met maybe twice or three times – years ago, when I was a little kid – back when my dad picked up summer work as a guide.
:)Linda knows most kids don’t have to walk for miles through the snow in the dark to get home if they miss the school bus.
Fridlund has this beautifully ethereal tone of writing, one which skims across the surface of the Minnesotan lake, the empty branches of the woodland and Linda's own straw bed.
Fridlund's similes are small revelations, accurate but, with the jarring comparisons, also slightly disconcerting, only enhancing the mist which surrounds Paul, the boy who lives in the house across the lake with his mother Patra.
With narrative jumps in time, both reflective and current, a reader can see the intense impact which this family had on Linda (14/15), something which is both comforting but disturbing at the same time.
An outcast in her north Minnesota school with a keen sense of woodland survival instincts, she tries to make sense of the world – particularly a possible tryst between her history teacher and the class beauty, Lily.When Patra – a 20-something-year-old mother – and her toddler son Paul move nearby, Madeline seizes the chance to become involved.
(Emily Fridlund writes, “By their nature, it seems to me, children were freaks.
I will say this: Emily Fridlund is a true master at ratcheting up tension, creating a compelling atmosphere, staying in control of her themes, and ultimately, unraveling what it means to be a misunderstood predator-of-sorts.
History of Wolves is one of those novels that I couldn't put down but, in the end, I have mixed feelings about.
When the Gardener family moves in across the lake, Linda begins babysitting for their four year old son,Paul, while Paul's mother, Patra, edits a research paper her husband, Leo, has written.
The story then toggles back and forth from learning of the details and decisions that lead to Paul's death and an obsession that Linda has with one of her classmates, Lily, and what may or may not have transpired between her and a teacher who has since been convicted of child pornography.
Comparing the two, I found Marlena to be better written, more cohesive, and more believable/realistic.This novel starts by introducing Madeleine, who lives in the woods where a cult compound used to be.
The other student, Lily, who is stigmatized based on a rumor about her involvement with the same teacher, is an interesting story but shows up at strange moments.
It seemed like a different novel.It's also hard for me to think of the main character as Madeleine, because she introduces herself to the family across the lake as Linda, and most of the time when she is addressed, it is by this name.
The narrator of this novel is Linda, a lonely fourteen-year-old, who lives with her somewhat recluse and atypical parents in an ex-commune.
So I kept reading with anticipation.There's another thread in this story concerning Mr Grieson, the new history teacher, who's attracted to Lily, the most beautiful girl in the class.
I will re-read the last pages, but if you understood it, feel free to enlighten me.This is a novel about loneliness, the need to belong and be loved, and especially about the choices we make and we take or don't take based on our beliefs.
The initial tension level of this story was maintained at a consistently high level with writing that hints and pulls back, shifts gears between the narrator, Linda/Madeleine, her parents and their history, her school and town, and the new neighbors.
Our narrator, Linda/Madeleine gives us clues but no answers until late.I really liked the first two-thirds of the book, where the tension is maintained even as answers begin to come.
I also found it slightly confusing because of shifts in the time being discussed.I do recommend this book for the very well done set up, the development of Linda/Madeleine's character and the creation of an unusual and tension-filled plot.
A book of interesting ideas and a dark little heart, yet also one that’s problematic in its execution. It either needs to be a shorter story just based around our odd (which I liked) narrator and a small boy she befriends and his parents. Or about our odd narrator and her small obsession with another student and their teacher. Together with odd snippets of her life post school (of which many didn’t make sense) this didn’t quite work. But it’s not awful.
3.5 review to follow.

Linda is 14 years old, and lives with his parents isolated in the backwoods of northern Minnesota su
In History of Wolves, a teenage babysitter latches onto a neighbor family that on the outside seems good and wholesome, especially after the girl’s troubled childhood in a now-defunct cult group, but upon closer inspection is hiding a sinister, devastating secret.What’s great about the structure of both novels is how much room there is for interpretation, and how much close detail you get within each scene.
WTF did I just read? Madeline/Linda made 2-3 sets of tracks in the snow and none of them ended up at the same destination. What did the Mr. Grierson/Lilly story have to do with the Patra/Leo/Paul story? The writing here was very good, but I think the point of this story ended up abandoned on a canoe in the middle of the lake. Who knows, maybe that was the point? Grrrr... The setting and characterization of Madeline/Linda meshed very well and conveyed a deep sense of loneliness. I'm sure there's symbolism just below the surface that I'm just plain missing.
This is the kind of book that makes me want to fight anyone who doesn't love it the way I do.
The kind that becomes a litmus test for future friends, like Louise Erdrich novels and The Bean Trees and Animal Dreams are.
If you're drawn to this book, trust your gut and sit down with it.
And then sit on your hands until she can write us a new one.
I hope it takes a long time, because this kind of writing can't be rushed.
The addition of a Christian Scientist family who did not believe that doctors are needed to cure illness (even of a 4 year old child) added to a chilling feeling.A teacher who was a predator added to a chilling feeling.I am discussing this book on BookBrowse and will be able to engage in many more thoughts about this book.Warning: many readers have hated this book: the book is too depressing, the characters too dysfunctional, they say.
I hope that anyone who ventures into this read will try to raise themselves above this to see the beauty of the book rather than the ugliness.BTW, there are no wolves in this book, per se.
One of my BookBrowse buddies called Linda a lone wolf.
This book still haunts me.
From the very beginning, you know that something bad is going to happen.
The horrible event itself isn’t as shocking as what caused it.
Or rather, the people who caused it.
Linda, the novel’s teenage narrator, is trapped by circumstances beyond her control.
When a family moves in across the lake, she finds an escape from her own miserable family life.
Throughout the novel is a sense that something is not right, but you’re not sure what that is.
This is a lovely, dark winter read.–Jan Rosenbergfrom The Best Books We Read In January 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/01/riot-r...
