https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634583.Wings_of_Fire
You can rely, yough man , upon this ageless prmise as surely as you can rely upon the eternally unbroken promise of sunrise ..." Those things that hurt instruct"- Benjamin FranklinAll reasonable men adapt themselves to the world.
All progress in the world depends on these unreasonable men and their innovative and often non-conformist actions.I have always considered the price of perfection prohibitive and allowed mistakes as a part of learning process.When the freedom they wished for most was the freedom from responsibility then Athens ceased to be free nad was never free again.-The historian Edith Hamilton wrote of greeceThe desire to work at optimum capacity leaves hardly any room for anything else .Flow is a sensation we experience when we act with total involvement.When each task of your project is not just a means to an end but a unique event in itself then you are doing it well.To live only for a future is superficial.
Supported by both major political parties, the man is considered the quintessential Indian.Abdul Kalam wasn't a member of any of the disparate groups who combined forces to push back the British occupiers...
(caveat: I'm not an expert on whether they're actually state of the art, but India is certainly holding her own...)From an American viewpoint, where everyone is screaming bloody murder about weapons proliferation, Abdul Kalam's recollections of France's withdrawl of support and false accusations of German help serve as a disturbing reminder that embargoing a country simply cannot work if the country's populace is determined to control their own destiny.
3.5 stars.The first autobiography I've read, and I really enjoyed it.
Dr.A.P.J. Abdul Kalam is a source of infinite pride and inspiration for every aspiring youths and in particular , young scientists.
A really motivative book which gives us a glimpse of the two sides of a bright golden coin, one is Dr. Kalam as a fine , compassionate , humble, optimistic and a highly respectable human being, the other side, an extraordinarily skillful, imaginative and a 100% dedicated scientist and a leader.
These two sides combine together and the result was, a phenomenal personality and a true leader, ......
Dr.Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam!!
Prayer helps us to tap and develop these powers."Explaining his approach to work he says: "I have always been a religious person in the sense that I maintain a working partnership with God. I was aware that the best work required more ability than I possessed and therefore I needed help that only God could give me."in the midst of the political 'leaders' who have done everything possible for them to divide the Indian people on the lines of castes, religions, languages, regions and classes,and are trying to perpetuate the differences, Dr. Abdul Kalam voices the need for the people to come together and work unitedly for nation-building.
Simple, concise and inspiring. Highly recommended!
Many people said this book is good, so wanted to read it, but I never cared to ask what was in the book.
And I am positively surprised how the government managed to keep the scientific institutions away from the complex politics of India and allowed them to make solid progress.
The INC party sucks today, but there were legends in the past who laid solid foundation to building the "young" nation, by establishing IITs, universities and other research institutes.(view spoiler)[It's amazing how he kept the scientific community upbeat even at experiencing big failures:The country doesn't deserve anything less than success from us.
Our efforts should be to give wings to this fire and fill the world with the glow of its goodness."-From the bookThis book is an autobiography of Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam.
For those people who don't know this man, Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam was a great scientist born in poor Indian family and goes to become president of India in his later part of life.Work is his religion.
The book was published before the death of Dr. Kalam.
So it would be nice of publisher, if they would add the death part of Dr. Kalam in the book on next edition.His life is true inspiration for everyone.
However, he couldn't be blamed as did his best as he could.The Man is responsible project director for the first indigenous rocket of India - Satellite Launch Vehicle (SLV-3), been the Director of Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO), established IGMDP to instigate many ambitious missile programmes and later became the president of India between 2002-07, been inspiring and motivating millions of young minds by his virtues and visions for the Nation.
Wings of Fire: An Autobiography of APJ Abdul Kalam by Abdul A.P.J. Kalam My review  to readView all my reviews.
The man of resilience, Dr. Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam's "Wings of fire" is out-and-out Inspirational book!
The scientific and technical terms did beleaguer me but later on I made peace with them as familiarity grew!There are number of things to learn from him!
His beautiful poems are like "Cherry on the Cake".
I'll recapitulate this review with just one poem-God has not promisedSkies always blue,Flower-strewn pathwaysAll our life through;God has not promised Sun without rain,Joys without sorrow,Peace without pain.But God has promised Strength for the day,Rest for the labourLight for the way.
An autobiography of one the great aerospace scientist of India. I read this book in my teens and found this to be inspiring
I would like to emphasize here that it is just an opinion of one person and I truly admire the man Dr Kalam is as I had the honour of meeting him in person as well, but this book somehow did not impress me at all.
When I read an autobiography, I am more interested not to know about the factual details about a personality as that can be available anywhere on the internet.
For me it is important to know the events that made the people great.
That did not happen when I read this book.But then again it is the opinion of just one girl !
"Wings of Fire"an autobiographical venture by "The Missile Man of India" Dr.APJ Abdul Kalam transcen
Such humbleness yet firmness in hand and mind of a man who practically guided the development of Indian Missiles and Space Exploration Power.
I didn't know any of what he had done, except that he had been the President of India.
He was like the most efficient feedback loop of the human mind ever.
Even throwing a sufficient amount of jargon in it, the book wasn't repulsive at any point of time, which advances this book to my most quickly read book of all time.The memoir goes through the difficulties (technological, organizational, personal) Kalam faced whence he was a boy.
A must read.
An absolutely brilliant book.The book is a testament to the enormous talent available in our country.The book is narrated by Kalam on his journey from a small village to becoming the mission director of missile program.
Throughout the book Kalam gives example of leadership, work ethic and interpersonal skill.
I am only sad that I read this book so late in my life.
Its a must read for anyone who is disillusioned by the corporate dream or a progressing India.
The book is a must read for every Indian.
I am hope and pray this book becomes part of the curriculum in school and Engineering in India.
Drop everything and start reading this book.
In his book, Kalam has spoken less about himself and more about India's space research programs. He has also shared his thoughts on the relationship between science and god, project management, rocket science, etc. Very informative and thought provoking book.
I wish it was little less technical...lost concentration at many points...but the messages given in the book really touched my heart...every growing up kid must read this.... truly inspirational
And Sir Kalam's achievements by no scale are small.
Towards the end I kept on turning the page, reading on with a goal to finish a book that I started but I felt disconnect from the proceedings.
The poems that inspired Sir Kalam, are truly inspiring and full of emotion.
Sir Kalam's life is an inspiration for aspiring learners.
I too loved to read about his life and India's passion for space and missile independence.
Nevertheless, I would recommend others to read about Sir Kalam's life.
For me both this person 'Bapu' and 'A.P.J. Abdul Kalam' is god.
Their character exactly portraits the characteristic of god described by various scholar people.Wings of Fire: An autobiography of APJ Abdul Kalam, former President of India.
I mean, you become the President of India, surely the politics would've corrupted you a bit.
Its your abilities that define who you are and not your outward appearance....A personality should emit an aura that captivates the people around, again, I am not talking about outward beauty...Abdul Kalam is THE GREATEST example of this.
To know the god as well as our India you must read this one.
Wings of Fire: An Autobiography of APJ Abdul Kalam Wings of Fire: An Autobiography of APJ Abdul Kalam by A.P.J. Abdul KalamWings of Fire: An Autobiography of APJ Abdul KalamView all my reviews
Wings of Fire by APJ Abdul KalamMy rating: 4 of 5 starsView all my reviews
A very insightful account on the great man's life and India's success in space exploration and missile technology.
It is inspiring to see how technological boundaries were pushed by bringing synergic efforts out of the complexity that an Indian government organization is.
And a satisfying glimpse into the vision and personalities of some of the giants - Vikram Sarabhai, Sathish Dhawan, Brahm Prakash and Kalam himself - on whose shoulders we stand.
I have only one concern - considering that it was meant to possibly instruct and inspire the younger generation, I wish the "spiritual" (unscientific) stuff were left out..
But then that wouldn't be Kalam.
This book is not just about rocket science and physics, rather is about india's one of the greatest achievements in recent history, to be in the class of an elite few counties to be able to have a very long range icbm and the ability to launch their own space vehicles into the orbit.This book helped us realise how this great man's and many others incessant hard work helped our country achieve it.APj Abdul Kalam is a great engineer,scientist, manager and a president.He, in this book has illustrated how his inner strength and spiritual upbringing helped him achieve so.He is an inspirtation for millions,a boy from humble milieu making his way up to one of the biggest platform for scientists is certainly an inspiration for millions of under-priveleged kids for sure.He was a great manager as well, he has outlined vividly how to lead teams and how to handle diffilcult situations as well as rejections.
This is an ever inspiring story for all the citizens of india.
Downright Inspirational.
The existance of a man like him is the real flame of India.
The book is an excellent read for it gives insight on the struggle and journey of a down to earth man who became the president of a large country.
Most remarkable aspect of all, is his religous view, on how God is not many but a single entity and it is this very beleif that led him to lead a country filled with a majority of Hindus while being a muslim.
This book is a MUST read for all the dirty politicians that infest our country.
I'm inspired after reading this book. It contain lots of technological terms and for some it will be difficult to understand but I 'll still recommend everyone to give it a try. There's lot to learn from this autobiography of our great Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam.One of my Favourite lines: I am a well in this great land Looking at its millions of boys and girls To draw from me The inexhaustible divinity And spread His grace everywhere As does the water drawn from a well.
ஓர அருமையான புததகம. ஒரு சாதாரன மனிதன தனது எணணஙகளாலும செயலாலும உயரவடைநத ஒரு எடுததுகாடடு. ஒவவொருவரும தனது உளவழிகாடடுதல படி நடபபது ஒரு உனனதமாக இருநதாலும, தனது வாழவில வரும வாயபபுகளை ஒரு நலலெணணததோடு எடுததுககொணடு போவாரே ஆனால அது ஒருவரை அவர நினைககும இடததிறகு அழைதது செலலும எனபதை உணரததும கதை.
ஓர் அருமையான புத்தகம். ஒரு சாதாரன மனிதன் தனது எண்ணங்களாலும் செயலாலும் உயர்வடைந்த ஒரு எடுத்துகாட்டு. ஒவ்வொருவரும் தனது உள்வழிகாட்டுதல் படி நடப்பது ஒரு உன்னதமாக இருந்தாலும், தனது வாழ்வில் வரும் வாய்ப்புகளை ஒரு நல்லெண்ணத்தோடு எடுத்துக்கொண்டு போவாரே ஆனால் அது ஒருவரை அவர் நினைக்கும் இடத்திற்கு அழைத்து செல்லும் என்பதை உணர்த்தும் கதை.
Awsome Book! verry inspirational!
Many takeaways from a single book. Books like these are always a constant source of inspiration.
Wings of fire is the autobiography of India's ex president and the most influential person A.P.J. Abdul kalam in the world.He is also known as the 'missile man of india' because india can never reach where it is today in the field of rocket science and weapon system without him.He played an important role in the development of different missiles like agni,prithvi,akash,trishul and naag.Abdul kalam worked hard in his childhood.
He had to struggle for study because his father wasn't that kind of rich.
Most useful to our people
