https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105614.An_Interrupted_Life
Una giovane donna Etty Hillesum con il proprio diario ci ha donato un affresco interiore con la testimonianza dei suoi ultimi due anni di vita .
Etty muore ad Auschwitz nel 1943 ma prima viene deportata in Polonia ; quando consapevole che il cerchio della sua famiglia va stringendosi consegna i suoi diari all’amica .
Il suo diario comincia ad essere scritto sotto consiglio dello psicologo Julius Spier, un uomo famoso , che riesce a leggere attraverso le mani la psiche de suoi pazienti.
Quello che mi ha lasciato più stupita nel diario è il suo continuo insistere sulla bellezza della vita nonostante tutto .
Her gradual acceptance of suffering and dread as part of the whole of her Being is marked equally as genuine precisely by its being itself glimpsed (by her) obliquely, partially, through eyes misted with doubt and distrust: never did it become a lump of proud truth, a mere formulaic centre or hieroglyphic scribble of empty nonsense.
She becomes overwhelmed by the madness, the horror, the dread, the continuous losses, the ever-increasing scarcities, bureaucratic randomness, yet still has moments where she wonders at the beauty of the world while witnessing mass murder before her eyes.
But perhaps You did, and so I shall wait patiently until the words have grown inside me, the words that proclaim how good and beautiful it is to live in Your world, oh God, despite everything we human beings do to one another.’ The thinking heart of the barracks.” 1942“People here fritter their energy away on the thousand irksome details that grind us down every day; they lose themselves in detail and drown.
The few big things that matter in life are what we have to keep in mind; the rest can be quietly abandoned.
And in spite of everything you always end up with the same conviction: life is good after all, it’s not God’s fault that things go awry sometimes, the cause lies in ourselves.” 1942
In one of the entries she hinted of having had an abortion, making as one of its justifications that insanity runs in the family.This, indeed, sounds like what a city-dwelling, call-center type of young woman would write today in her diary except that this was in Amsterdam during the Nazi occupation and Etty Hillesum was Jewish.
She was probably writing this diary at some point when Anne Frank was writing hers while in hiding.Amidst evil, yet so like us.
The entries ended where she began writing letters instead.
These were letters she wrote from Westerbork--the transit point before her eventual transport and death at Auschwitz.
Sort of "Anne Frank" for adults, it is the journals of a young Dutch Jew caught up in the Holocaust.
She is brilliant and outgoing and living life to the full, when Hitler's ugly shadow begins to fall over her world.
And I believe, childishly perhaps but stubbornly, that the earth will become habitable again only through the love that the Jew Paul described to the citzens of Corinth in the thirteenth chapter of his first letter." We need this kind of thinking and living as much in our 21st century world as they needed it in Europe in 1942.
I'm glad I finally got to read her diaries after reading her letters.
I actually read "An Interrupted Life" but goodreads wouldn't let me add it twice for some damned reason.Reading her diaries is like having a conversation with a close friend.
Out of all the holocaust books I've read (and I've read a lot...I have no idea what this says about me as a person), I'd have to say this is the most human viewpoint of it all.
I think I'll go back to this book many times in my life.
, forse più avanti lo riprenderò, ma, per il momento, lo abbandono.27 settembre 2018 :Ripreso !!!Vedi commento su altra edizione:All’inizio ho avuto lo stesso pensiero di Emmapeel, e l’avevo “ sospeso “ un po’ delusa.
Poi tre amici GR ( Emilio , Krodi80 ed Evi*) mi hanno scritto delle parole così belle su questo libro, meravigliati che non mi piacesse ( siamo abbastanza in sintonia con i gusti letterari) illuminando qualcosa che non avevo colto ; ho riletto la bellissima recensione di Evi con più attenzione e ....l’ho ripreso ed ora non faccio che sottolineare continuamente....Grazie a tutti!
Mi avete aiutato a non perdere qualcosa di veramente bello!
Questo libro mi è stato presentato come il corrispettivo de Il diario di Anna Frank: non un romanzo, ma una testimonianza.
Trovo il paragone decisamente fuori luogo.Prima di tutto, il libro avrebbe potuto essere scritto da chiunque stesse vivendo in qualsiasi momento storico e non da una giovane ebrea che viveva ad Amsterdam nei primi anni ‘40.
Ha una religiosità tutta sua, che permea tutte la pagine del libro, che la induce a cercare Dio in tutto ciò che la circonda, nei rapporti familiari ed amicali, nell’amore verso S.
Not that I know a great deal about any religion in particular, but I was strongly reminded of The Book of Joy: Lasting Happiness in a Changing World, a conversation between the Dalai Lama and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.
Etty Hillesum cultivated habits of introspection and prayer that seem a lot like meditation and her acceptance of suffering while rejecting hatred echoes the Dalai Lama.
To live fully, outwardly and inwardly, not to ignore external reality for the sake of an inner life, or the reverse – that’s quite a task.Throughout the diary and letters, Etty found solace in reading, however she emphasised the importance of books for study in pursuit of understanding rather than escape.
It is not the first time that I read Etty Hillesum, but she always amazes and touches me in the deepest possible way.
She learns to love and open herself to God. She can bless life even though there were so many struggles to be fought and so much incredible want and suffering.
But Etty can bless life and feel at home for as long as she has the sky over her head.
Having loved so many people, she learns to love all; having met God inside herself, she wants to become an intermediary to help others open up to God. She becomes a beacon of light ad a tower of strength, even though her body becomes fragile from lack of nourishment and poor health.

"è importante che non mi lasci dominare da quel che mi sta succedendo. in un modo o nell'altro deve rimanere un fatto subordinato al resto- voglio dire: non ci si dovrebbe mai lasciar paralizzare da una cosa sola, per grave che essa sia, la gran corrente della vita deve continuare a scorrere"(fulgido e fondamentale)
She reads Dostoyevsky, Shakespeare, Kierkegaard, and loves philosophy and Rilke.
That is also my attitude to life and I believe that neither war nor any other senseless human atrocity will ever be able to change it.’ And: ‘Not for one moment was I cut off from the life I was said to have left behind.
Will I be able to describe all that one day?
So that others can feel too how lovely and worth living and just — yes, just—life really is?’ Yes, she did, in spite of it all.
Etty Hillesum was a Dutch Jew from Amsterdam; she studied Russian, gave Russian lessons, and kept a diary, focusing mainly on her love affair with psychologist Julius Spier and her efforts to deal personally with the effects of the Nazis taking control of the Netherlands.
In 1942, she went to Westerbork, the camp where Dutch Jews were assembled for deportation to other concentration camps; she wrote letters to friends back in Amsterdam, before she was eventually sent to Auschwitz, where she died.
She was a natural writer, and her diaries and letters are very vivid (particularly the letters, when she describes Westerbork in great detail) and moving, often almost unbearably so.
Beautiful, incredible book!
What's most spell-bounding is the way in which the Nazi regime appears in her diary: slowly, through comments such as being tired after a day of walking everywhere now that Jews aren't allowed to bike.
It really gives you the feeling of what it must have been like, with freedoms taken away so slowly yet so surely.
Being so bright, Etty seems to know immediately which way the wind is blowing, but refuses any chance to leave because she wants to share the fate of the other Jewish people.
A heartbreaking, unforgettable book that everyone should read.
This is the diary (and letters) of a young, sensitive, intelligent, loving Dutch Jewish woman during the Nazi occupation, living in Amsterdam and ultimately dying In a concentration camp.
Her mind and heart continue to shine even as the Nazi net around her slowly closes, and ultimately kills her.
I'll never forget this book, though I find it hard to re-read it - to realize that such a beautiful person was purposefully killed, brings home the madness of war and racism in an almost unbearable way.
It's beautiful, fascinating, both in a historical sense, and as a story of personal growth.
“Il gioco della vita di Etty si dispiega nell’incontro con le persone, in piena gratuità, nell’ascoltare tutti con un’empatia sempre crescente. Eppure il gioco non si esprime compiutamente, anche se è vero che, per essere tale, deve essere proprio ludico, gratuito, fantasioso”.
Esther Hillesum, detta Etty, ebrea olandese vittima della Shoah, fu una grande donna, forte e positiva. Il suo diario prende avvio nel 1941 e si interrompe nel 1943 con il trasferimento da Amsterdam al campo di transito di Westerbork, poco prima della fine ad Auschwitz. La tragedia personale e collettiva ancora apparentemente lontana, il diario riporta annotazioni e riflessioni interessanti, con la grande donna che certamente traspare, ma devo dire che il livello letterario si è rilevato inferiore alle mie aspettative.
'Er is niets aan te doen, ik zal m'n problemen moeten oplossen en ik heb altijd het gevoel, dat, wanneer ik ze voor mij oplos, ik ze ook voor duizend andere vrouwen oplos. En daarom moet ik me 'auseinandersetzen' met alles.--> Oh Esther... jij ook voor mij, en ik, wie weet, een heel klein beetje ook voor jou...
Vorrei tanto poter trasmettere ai tempi futuri tutta l'umanità che conservo in me stessa, malgrado le mie esperienze quotidiane.Non conoscevo Etty Hillesum ma sfogliando il catalogo della casa editrice inglese Persephone, ho scoperto che il suo diario (e anche una raccolta di lettere) sono tradotti in italiano.
It's a shame Etty Hillesum is not as well known as Anne Frank.
She's the Anne Frank for girls in their 20s-30s.
I wish that I could have gotten her diaries before I read the letters.
While these were interesting, they weren't (I'm guessing) as introspective or personal as her diaries probably are (which is why I gave it three stars).
I'm more interested in her life before she was put in the camps rather than while she was in the camps...so I'm looking forward to reading her diaries.
Overall, I recomend reading her diaries first and then reading her letters.
One of her prayers:"the jasmine behind my house has been completely ruined by the rains and storms of the last few days; its white blossoms are floating about in muddy black pools on the low garage roof.
but somewhere inside me the jasmine continues to blossom undisturbed, just as profusely and delicately as ever it did.
and it spreads its scent round the house in which you dwell, oh God. you can see, i look after you, i bring you not only my tears and my forebodings on this stormy, gray sunday morning, i even bring you scented jasmine … i shall try to make you at home always."
I took this book out of the library in Amsterdam when I had a couple of weeks to spend there.
Man!
Out of nowhere it blew me away.
Or rather, it wasn't even on such a large outward scale.
It was the story of someone going deep inside their own soul, in the hardest of hard time, to open up to all of her life.
Because it's written without pretension (because it is a diary she was just keeping for herself), and because she writes through the ups and downs, it feels like a very real journey and therefore inspires me to think about my own.
I read this book in my undergraduate philosophy class and was absolutely blown away because I felt like I knew Etty Hillesum. I identified so much with her and she was able to express feelings that I had but couldn't express myself. She was Jewish and living in the midst of a Nazi occupation. Not something I can identify with at all, yet we had so much in common. I wanted to know her.
This would be on my list of "Best 20 Books Ever Written". Ms. Hillesum was an inspiring and gifted person who brings the human and inhumane circumstances of her reality into clear focus. Without any doubt this is the most suggested book I ever reference as "must reads".
Etty Hillesum a young Jewish, Russian scholar shared a house with a group of other intellectuals in Amsterdam during World War Two. Etty’s remarkable diaries shine a light on the changing times as the Nazi’s vile agenda and the continually worsening strictures placed upon Jewish citizens gradually take hold.
Initially Etty’s role came with certain privileges – which meant she could help many people at Westerbork, she was also allowed (required in fact) to return to Amsterdam for several months when she was suffering from serious health issues.
MI sono resa conto che è così che voglio scrivere: con altrettanto spazio intorno a poche parole.
Come in quell'illustrazione con un ramo fiorito nell'angolo in basso: poche tenere pennellate - ma che resa dei minimi dettagli - e il grande spazio tutt'intorno, non un vuoto, ma uno spazio che si potrebbe piuttosto definire ricco d'anima.
-, mi piacerebbe dipinger poche parole su uno sfondo muto.
E in ogni novella, o altro che sia, lo sfondo muto dovrà avere un suo colore e un suo contenuto, come capita appunto in quelle stampe giapponesi.
Etty desired to be the "thinking heart" of Westerbork and she was determined to bear witness.
A series of letters which describes in detail the lives of people with whom she came into contact as the transports of Jews from the rest of Holland came into Westerbork and onto Poland.
In her work with people, getting them necessities, putting them in contact with loved ones, writing letters petitioning for their exemption from the labor and death camps in Poland, she remained committed to her promise to help people find the peace and self-repose she had found within.
There was a nice paragraph on page 70, beginning with "Then something dawned on me." in which she explains how she came to an understanding about her father.
Also, I liked the passage on page 87 that starts "There was one bright spot." about taking responsibility for rooting out the evil within and not letting ourselves off the hook by blaming the really bad guys (in this case, the Nazis).
If this were a novel, I would say the point is that we should aim to be the bright spot.
For example, she reads and quotes from the new testament, but she never explains why a Jew would turn to Christianity.
She starts off a little melancholic and unsure of herself, which are feelings I can easily relate to, and she often mentions how her hormones can completely dictate her moods.
Again, relateable.
She focuses more on the lives of those around her and becomes a great source of comfort for many as she volunteers to go to the camps early to help transport others and look after them.Her writings make me try to remember that we should always focus on love at the heart of everything and not allow hate to obscure our thoughts..
