https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/892095.Arabel_s_Raven
A number of years ago, I wrote to my elemetary school librarian at Coudersport Elem. School (PA) telling her how much I remembered loving this book. She actually pulled it from the shelves and sent it to me - and it still has the checkout card in the back with my name on it, dated 9/29/76, Jenny, Room 47. It even smells the way I remember it smelling. Haha.
I adored this little book. Every page. Rich with humour, Mortimer might be one of my most favourite creations. Stubborn. Unreadable. Painfully independent (especially if you like stairs). A hero. As always, Aiken's characters are delicious, from Uncle Arthur to Arabel's rather outrageous mother. Thank goodness for Jackanory and their proposal of commissioning Aiken to write a story for me. That story was this very one.
Mortimer's habit of sitting in the coal bin or getting stuck head-first in trumpets is nicely illustrated with sketchy energy.Besides all the laughs and particularly "British" feel of these stories, there's a strong emotional element that made itself felt in "The Bread Bin"--Arabel is unwell in the hospital, asking for Mortimer, and the Nevermore-chanting raven goes through a number of discomforts and affronts to be by her side, and save her up from her dangerous illness by nestling by her side.
So sweet!There are a total of 13 Arabel & Mortimer stories in four collections.
I will read every single one!
Arabel's raven Mortimer does not like to fly.
He wants to be pulled around in a red wooden wagon.
He likes potato chips.
He sulks when not allowed to sleep in the breadbox.
("We could get another breadbox," suggests Arabel helpfully.) Wherever Mortimer goes, havoc ensues.
But he's not all bad: he frustrates burglars, avenges Arabel against her very mean cousins, Lindy, Mindy and Cindy, and enlivens this slim delightful volume, wonderfully well illustrated by Quentin Blake.
If you want to giggle audibly to yourself, pick it up!
This book was a cute break from the rest of my reading.
A taxicab driver brings home a large raven that he saw struck on the side of the road.
The raven, Mortimer, is still a bird, albeit an intelligent one, and gets himself into trouble in many varied ways.
He both steals and brings in the real robbers.
He enjoys putting coins in vending machines.Anyone who likes a little whimsy and a characteristically British style of writing will enjoy this book.
If you're not so big a fan of British books, well, maybe skip this one.
First published in 1972 and definitely a different kind of story, Arabel's Raven is truly a classic. With a caring little girl and a funny but mischievous raven as the main characters, all kinds of adventures are written. I loved this book when I was a kid, I can't believe it's still in print. :)
I remember loving this. Have not read it in years but will read it to my son sometime.
Enjoyable book. I liked the relationship between Mortimer and Arabel. I think the pace of the book was a bit slow, could lose children's interest. However, I would recommend this book to children if they enjoyed these types/ themes of books.
Only about 75 pages, but a funny, warm book about the friendship between a raven and a little girl. Lots of perfectly ridiculous happenings that make it a wonderful book to share with kids. I think it would be a good read-aloud as it has lots of dialogue and quirky conversations.
Humorous read. Wish Arabel had a less passive role in the story.
Read this one out loud to my six year old. Man, that was a weird one. And it was honestly hard to read. Would have given up much earlier if my daughter didn’t want to finish it.
Whimsical, light-hearted and sweet.
Still funny, despite the dated characters and the amazingly bad behavior of Mortimer the Raven.
Quirky, from the story lines to the dated language and culture, but fun. F loved it.
I am sad to say these two have been discarded from my library and I was just able to grab this one before it went in a bin.Joan Aiken is of course a well-known and loved children's author and I had particularly liked The Wolves of Willoughby Chase which I read as an adult, as I did these.
If you know a child who loves animals, quirky humor, wordplay and British authors, this is for that child.It is the tale of Arabel, a young girl who makes the acquaintance of a highly individual raven whom she knows instantly is Mortimer.
Gripping, witty, and enough intrigue to make it interesting but not so much it scares children, this is a wonderful mystery solved by a raven who (for the benefit of Edgar Allan Poe readers) only ever says, 'Nevermore.' Loved this, and was a big hit with the boy.
Fun and pleasantly quirky, but dragged on rather--I was ready for it to end quite a while before it did (though my six-year-old wasn't! he thought the whole thing was freaking hilarious). Mortimer the raven and little human Arabel are likeable, and Arabel seems like a real and interesting child rather than being annoyingly perfect or stereotypical.Bonus points for having a competent and fun male babysitter: I imagine if this book were written today, Chris would be a "she"! Anyway, it's nice to see a nurturing, capable young man interacting with a child in a children's book.
This is an entertaining story. The raven is great, and the story is fresh.
So cute.
I loved this book.
It was such a delightful mix of totally adult jokes (the Citroen at the end was illegally parked every time and had me in fits of giggles) and amusing things for children (Mortimer the Raven eats their stairs.
Arabel doesn't blame him because how was he to know they needed them to get to the second floor?).
There's not enough whimsy in my life (hard as I try).
It was a pleasure to read and I whole-heartedly recommend it for people with kids between the ages of 6 and 8.
Or people who just enjoy a good three-hour audiobook filled with whimsy.
This book is quite funny! We really enjoyed listening to it, and Daughter can croak out "Nevermore!" just like the reader. However, it is INTENSELY British, and the seven-year old American didn't really catch most of those references. I found myself continuously interpreting (biscuits=cookies, lift=elevator) both words and cultural references (tea time, unions, attitudes and manner-expectations)An aside: I was fascinated to have this book reveal to me just how different the language of English is growing in two countries. It shows to me how a new language comes about.
This another great series from my childhood. Joan Aiken combines thoughtful storytelling to a Roald Dahl-type comedic story. There never is really any theme expressed, other than that no one is smarter than this raven (who, consequently, never says more than one word throughout the series). Though simpler writing fits it for more of a younger teen audience, the series can still be appreciated for its witty slapstick humor.
An odd little story, about odd people. I know the cover says "Joan Aiken" but it reads a lot more like a Roald Dhal--and Quentin Blake's illustrations simply add to the illusion.I liked Arabel's character, and the raven was fun, but the rest of the story was pretty flat. Her mother didn't really fit, with her oddly-phrased questions she sounded like Maureen Lipmann's "Jewish mother" from the old BT ads. For very much younger readers, perhaps.
This book was pretty entertaining--especially as an audiobook. My kids loved it, though some of the humorous situations were over their heads. It's quirky, fun, and read by someone with a British accent. I didn't LOVE it--only enjoyed it. And, when friends ask for recommendations, it's not the first one that would pop into my head.
We like absurdity 'round our house, so this book made a fantastic bedtime read, although our 7 year old frequently burst out laughing as we read to him, so it didn't always get people in a sleepy mood. The illustrations by Quentin Blake are a perfect compliment to the madness that Mortimer effortlessly creates.
This cute and fun story collection is definitely a safe way to start a discussion with children on why "Nevermore" is a proper and classic thing for ravens to say. Perhaps when my progeny embarks upon a study of Poe, some years hence, fond memories of Arabel and Mortimer will mitigate the creepiness factor.
Arabel & Mortimer #1. Three stories about a little girl and her badly behaved raven. they get into all sorts of fixes, but end up on top, often catching robbers and stuff. A lot like Roald Dahl's children's books.
The girls laughed themselves silly over this book. Mortimer the Raven has so much personality. The Wolves of Willoughby Chase was one of my most favorite books as a child so I'm surprised I never heard of this one by the same author. We are all looking forward to the sequel.
I apparently missed this book when I was a kid, but I'm looking forward to making sure my kids don't have the same misfortune. Extremely silly and funny! The reader for the audiobook also did an excellent job.
I have discovered I love Joan Aiken's whimsical style, reminds me of Roald Dahl. Mortimer, the raven, is a great mischeivous yet lovable character.
Would make a GREAT read-aloud to any kid!
