https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/963714.Medieval_People
For a long time historians foolishly imagined that kings and wars and parliaments and the jury system alone were history (p89)In my imagination Eileen Power swept down from Northern Ireland to bring the new gospel of social history to the rich lands of southern England, but according to the infallible wikipeadia she only came from by Manchester which changes things entirely.Medieval People was first published in 1924 and went through a series of editions ,before Power's death when she was, by the standards of historians, a youth of fifty and barely getting going professionally speaking.

In an attempt to limit the damage on my bank account, I went through Amazon’s free Kindle books and picked up Eileen Edna Power’s Medieval People.Power’s book follows six medieval lives based entirely on literature (in this case, wills, poems, and contemporary observations) beginning at the fall of the Roman Empire.
One man, Thomas Betson, is described as perhaps the epitome of romantic manhood based almost entirely on the love letters he wrote to his preteen fiancé.
Though I found parts eye-rollingly painful to read, I will keep this book in my Kindle if only to refer to the primary sources contained within.
I was surprised when I started reading and realized that the style of writing was unlike most history books that I've read before, combining a narrative-style glimpse into the thoughts and opinions of the people featured in the book, and also plenty of factual information about their life and times.
Not only does Medieval People provide a deep, informative view of the lives of people in the Middle Ages, but it does this in an accessible and uniquely omniscient manner that explores the opinions of the majority, not just the rich and powerful.
I like Power's conceit of keeping from the politics that everyone else usually focused on when writing histories and choosing to focus on the individual instead.
I was trying to translate all the Middle English and decipher the original (and unregulated) spellings, and by the end of the book, I gave up on reading the direct quotes from the poems I knew I wouldn't be able to understand 100% of.
I would rather read a book by Harold Lamb, who at least makes his histories of people and their everyday lives interesting and in his own words.
Drawing on a range of primary sources including letters, wills, and ecclesiastical records she examines the life of six individuals: a peasant at the time of Charlemagne, Marco Polo the Venetian adventurer, a Prioress who might have been a model for Chaucer's Madame Elglentyne, a fourteenth century Parisian housewife, a fifteenth-century English wool merchant, and an Essex clothier in the reign of Henry VII.Apart from a determination to ferret out material from some fairly dark corners, what Eileen Power primarily brings to her subject is human sympathy.
Fascinating look at various types of people who lived in different areas and eras of the Medieval time period.
Some of it repeats what Powers wrote in Medieval Women but, in this case, the primary focus is on the non-royal population.
Powers is able to piece together the lives of six specific people who otherwise would remain completely obliterated from history altogther, and she does this with a sense of humor as well as a real understanding of what their lives would have been like as though she lived through them herself.
Rather dated now across the board: simplistic arguments, childlike prose ( "They were very merry and not at all refined." In stead of elucidating the social world of the 8th century Frankish peasant, comments such as this turn them into little more than Hobbits with their penchant for Maypoles and strong ale) and medieval stereotypes abound.
E' un libro imperdibile:la quotidianità del medioevo raccontata attraverso sei personaggi comuni,la cui vita è rimasta impigliata negli archivi,nelle lapidi funerarie,nei contratti,nelle lettere personali e commerciali,negli atti dei processi.Lo consiglio vivamente a tutti.
A somewhat less than satisfying look at some real people from the Middle Ages based on documents and letters. Maybe I was expecting more than could possibly be reconstructed from the source material. Nonethless, interesting insights into how things were -- especially trade, travel and finance.
This book was hard to get into at first, but it turned out to be really interesting. I don't know of another book that has shed so much light on the day-to-day lives of Medieval people. It could be boring in parts, yet fascinating in others. It's a must for anyone studying that time period.
An extremely readable view of the lives of 6 Medieval people.
Interesting history and easy to read.
Hildigard von Bingen, WOW
Some plodding prose and dated syntax, but worth the effort if you have an interest in the daily travails of mostly ordinary people in medieval times.
p.105As soon as they begin to tell stories, or to argue, or to lean on their elbows, order the béguine to make them rise and take away their table, for he common folk have a saying: "when a varlet holds forth at table and a horse grazes in the ditch, it is time to take them away, for they have had their fill." p.106Power introduces the chapter on the merchant Thomas Betson by asking us to forget the industrial importance of iron and cotton, and to remember the great wealth "grown on the backs" of our own cattle:The visitor to the House of Lords, looking respectfully upon that august assembly, cannot fail to be struck by a stout and ungainly object facing the throne - an ungainly object upon which in gull session of Parliament, he will observe seated the Lord Chancellor of England.
This book uses primary sources to dig into the lives of 6 Medieval people -- Bodo the peasant, Marco Polo, Eglentyne the Prioress, a Paris housewife, an English wool merchant, and an English clothier.
The author is obviously a Chaucer fan, as many of the 6 map to Cantebury Tales characters, and does a good job highlighting the lives of each.Written in 1924, its tone is also quite a pleasant contrast to many of today's "historical" writings.
Before this one I had just finished a recently written book on Medieval woman, and in a bitter and condescending matter it attempted to spin Medieval times to support her political agenda.
The author develops some of the major characters of Medieval times - for instance, Charlemagne, Polo, and archetypal characters representing both the life of the commoner and of the more fiscally successful.
Her analysis includes economics, religion and monastic life, social practices, and the appropriate customs of the time.
She also spends considerable time developing some of Chaucer's themes in "Canterbury Tales." This book is more than dates and events, which many associate with historical writing; the author develops characters whom one feels one gets to know almost personally.
For those looking for a beginning and targeted introduction to Medieval times, this book is recommended.
excellent
Probably outdated now. But was one of the first overviews of "ordinary" life in the Middle Ages, from the perspective of common people.
I loved that this book focused on real normal people during the middle ages, not on the wars and kings. It was written in an engaging way, making the research sound like a story. My favorite chapter was about the menagier's wife. This is definitely a good book if you want to know more about the middle ages.
Originally published in 1924 this Fellow at Cambridge's Girton College rejected the traditional study of history in terms of dates and great "men" in favor of portraying the lives of simpler folks through historical records and literary texts.
This was natural for Power due to her background as a Doctor of Literature rather than History.She leverages three great books for construction of her portraits of Marco Polo (La Cronique des Veneciens de Maistre Martin da Canal), Madame Eglentyne (Chaucer's Canterbury Tales) and The Menagier's Wife (The Goodman of Paris - first translated and published in English by Power in 1928).
Whilst there are now many publications which discuss the lives of medieval people (Ian Mortimer's Time Traveller's Guide to Medieval England being the most fantastic book I have read to date) I have yet to come across one which discusses the lives of ordinary people from different time periods, locations and backgrounds in such close detail.It is a concise read yet pays extensive focus to source material.
This at times made it difficult to focus and lost my attention making interesting information quite tiresome to read.That said, much of the source material is fascinating.
Eileen Power ha fatto un ottimo lavoro con questo saggio; capita raramente di leggere libri di storia così scorrevoli e spigliati.Il saggio si propone di esplorare vari aspetti minuti della vita medievale che spesso vengono taciuti nei libri di storia con la esse maiuscola in favore di grandi imprese e grandi uomini.
L’ambientazione è europea ma, attraverso gli occhi del viaggiatore Marco Polo, unico protagonista celebre di questo libro, si passa attraverso l’Asia fino ad arrivare in Cina.Lo stile scorrevole e discorsivo e la voluta scarsezza di date e riferimenti storici aiuta la lettura, anche se in certe parti le citazioni sono troppo lunghe.
This book gave me some good insight to those who lived in Medieval times.
Yes people lived on Manors with a lord, and serfs who took care of the land for them by planting, caring for animals, barrel making, housekeeping and the like but life in the middle ages was so much more.
The lives of husbands and wives were not usually love matches but arranged and the power of the woman was much less of a man's.
England grows in power near the end of the middle ages bringing increase contact with the outside world and into what would be called its Renaissance.
There is a reason why this book is a classic, written in 1924 when Rankian history was still in its 
This book did not meet my expectations, justified by the title and the intentions explained in the introduction.
The author talks about some semi-free peasants at the end of the reign of Charlemagne (ninth century) and then jumps all the way to the third quarter of the thirteenth century, as if there were not ‘medieval people’ in between [over four hundred years]!
She ends the review talking about the life of an English clothier who dies in 1518.
Who would consider today, though, such a man a ‘medieval one’, no matter how archaic the English of his will looks to us today?
I have managed to get my hands on the complete and unabridged 1937 Pelican paperback edition (part of the Penguins paperback range).$1 AUD in the op shop! It still has the photographic black and white plates in the middle, which haven't dropped out. I hate when paperbacks do that. It was really interesting and made you feel alittle bit like you were spying on some people from different strata in medieval society, from spoiled rich girls in some nunneries to poor slaves on farms.
I have always looked to those behind the scenes of majesty, people who really don't count individually (such as myself), but who, though unrecognized, keep the whole system intact (like most of us). This is one of those books who speak to me as what my life might have been if alive in a given place in Medieval time. Take the leap, enjoy and then be thankful.
This is a very interesting book, and full of the author's contagious enthusiasm for the Middle Ages. It includes chapters on Bodo (a Carolingian peasant), Marco Polo, a 14th-century abbess, the young wife of the 14th-century Menagier of Paris, Thomas Beston (fleece-trader to Calais, 15th century), and Thomas Paycocke of Cogheshall (16th-century English clothier). Fascinating.
