https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447737.Young_Renny
Book #4 in the Jalna series. This is a fun book in the Whiteoak family saga. The family has a supercilious visitor from Ireland, and young Renny, the oldest of Philip's children, becomes interested in a local gypsy woman. There was a lot of humor in this book, with Philip's children often interacting with their grandmother Adelaide. I loved the scenes with Boney the parrot. A very enjoyable read!
First read 50 years ago and upon recalling my enjoyment I decided to re read the series. Lovely descriptions and have not disappointed
Suom. Jalnan nuori Renny
YOUNG RENNY is set in 1906 and therefore qualifies as a "flashback" novel, featuring Renny Whiteoak in his young (pre-Alayne) days.
Much conflict is generated by Renny's dislike for this man, upon whom he (Renny) and sister Meg play a number of mean-spirited pranks.
Malahide, in turn, takes real pleasure in evening the score...As an added bonus there is Meg's broken engagement, which we first heard about in JALNA.
There's some humor, too, for readers who have already read JALNA, in knowing that Meg will wait twenty years before forgiving poor ol' Maurice!
In my opinion, YOUNG RENNY is the best "flashback" Jalna novel.
I am reading my dad's favorite series of books. It took me months to get this one from the library. I enjoyed reading it, but I wish the author would show me more and tell me less. I love the characters, especially the title one Renny. I guess I'm saying that I would like more substance--this narrative seemed a bit thin. However, I'm ready to move on to the next novel--and I'm hoping for some more depth!
J'avais dévoré tout Jalna quand j'étais adolescent, et si je suis incapable aujourd'hui de me souvenir de chacun des tomes qui composent cette saga gigantesque, je me souviens tout de même que j'avais pris beaucoup de plaisir à découvrir cette famille et ce domaine familial que l'on suit pendant presque un siècle.
I really quite like Phillip and am sorry he is only in a couple of books. Meg is still likable in this book--at least to a point, although I know she becomes one of my least favorite. The whole storyline with the cousin from Ireland was amusing, with all the ways they use Wakefield and the parrot to annoy him.
Fourth in the Jalna series, by order of events. Young Renny takes place in 1906 and is a real coming-of-age book. Quite humorous in places. Written in 1935, there's a subltety about one of the characters(Malahide)that I was surprised to find. Adeline remains a force to be reckoned with. Don't miss this book if you're reading the Jalna series!
Part four of the series and oi, with the drama! There's mysterious older women teaching younger men about love, there's cheating and heartbreak and babies and a really annoying cousin with a hilarious name (Malahide!). Needless to say I loved it and Adeline is just one rocking' grandma!
Again, a good, decent novel, although Renny's and Meg's unkind treatment of their distant and rather deplorable Irish cousin and matriarch Adeline's overbearing treatment of most everybody were a bit wearying. On to Jalna #5!
Same as previous Jalna books. There are at least 13 of them! You follow the family in love, death and the birth of new babies.
This book is the fourth in a wonderful series about the Whiteoak family. I cannot wait to complete the entire series!
First time I read it loved it.
Another great installment in the Jalna Series.
