https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10033.Being_and_Nothingness
L'etre et le neant, essai d'ontologie phenomenologique = Being and Nothingness, Jean-Paul SartreBeing and Nothingness: An Essay on Phenomenological Ontology (French: L'Être et le néant : Essai d'ontologie phénoménologique), sometimes subtitled A Phenomenological Essay on Ontology, is a 1943 book by the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, in which the author asserts the individual's existence as prior to the individual's essence ("existence precedes essence") and seeks to demonstrate that free will exi
‎‭L'etre et le neant, essai d'ontologie phenomenologique‬ = Being and Nothingness, Jean-Paul SartreBeing and Nothingness: An Essay on Phenomenological Ontology (French: L'Être et le néant : Essai d'ontologie phénoménologique), sometimes subtitled A Phenomenological Essay on Ontology, is a 1943 book by the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, in which the author asserts the individual's existence as prior to the individual's essence ("existence precedes essence") and seeks to demonstrate that free will exists.
Heidegger's work, an ontological investigation through the lens and method of Husserlian phenomenology (Edmund Husserl was Heidegger's teacher), initiated Sartre's own philosophical enquiry.
After reading this there seems little more to be said about the basis in reality of human thought.
The unique effect of reading the book, for me, came from exploring my own mind and thoughts for insight as I followed what Sartre said.
Sartre does pose the problem of the "situation limit" to human freedom, but without exploring it in any detail.
Thence comes the sense of a human consciousness unbounded in its freedom.
Sartre's characterization of the human mind possessing "absolute freedom and absolute responsibility" takes on a metaphysical aura; this, as much as anything, accounts for the book's ability to engage one's feelings.
This is an argumentative work which tries to tease out the truth, rather than one that simply proclaims its truth imperiously and ex cathedra.Ultimately, I found Sartre's work to be a more honest and accountable study than "Being and Time".Notwithstanding its length, it is also a more engaging literary experience for a reader, once (if at all) you become comfortable with the terminology of phenomenology and ontology."Being and Nothingness" works hard to be both a philosophical and a literary experience.
به نظرم مهم ترین اثر فلسفی سارتر هستی و به جرئت میشه گفت که یکی از برجسته ترین آثار فلسفی قرن بیستم هستش.
من وقتی اولین بار این کتاب رو خریدم و میخواستم شروع به خوندنش بکنم، یکم ترسیدم، هم از حجمش و هم از متنش، اما بعد از خوندن چند صفحه به طور کامل در متن قرار گرفتم و مساله برام روشن شد.
به نکات عالی ای اشاره میکنه توی این اثر و نه تنها به بررسی هستیشناسی پدیدارشناختی می پردازه، بلکه به مسائل روزمره انسان ها و فلسفه عملی و روزمره و کاربردی نیز به نحو احسن میپردازه.
نثرش دقیقا مثل نثر سایر اثار س
من وقتی اولین بار این کتاب رو خریدم و میخواستم شروع به خوندنش بکنم، یکم ترسیدم، هم از حجمش و هم از متنش، اما بعد از خوندن چند صفحه به طور کامل در متن قرار گرفتم و مساله برام روشن شد.
نثرش دقیقا مثل نثر سایر اثار سارتر میمونه و مثال های ذکر شده برای هر مساله به روشن شدن بهتر مساله کمک میکنه.
فلسفه کامل ساتر که در تمام اثرهای دیگرش به کار رفته رو میشه داخل این اثر دید و در واقع با خوندن این اثر تمام اثار دیگه ساتر رو میخونین.
I quit reading these things about the time I began to understand philosophy.So then as to Sartre being the only existentialist.
With a popular book or two; overnight we suddenly had an entire history of existentialist thinkers--Heidegger became one, so did Nietzsche and Kierkegaard, even back to Shakespeare and Pascal.
Existentialism is and never was a very important part of twentieth century philosophy.
Forget the existentialist reading of the history of philosophy.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب از 400 صفحه و 5 فصل مختلف تشکیل شده است و بخشهای اصلی که در این کتاب به آن پرداخته شده است، از قرار زیر استهستی و نیستی- پدیده شناسی- ایمان و بی ایمانی- واقعیت هستی- زمان حال و آینده- جسم و روان- عشق- زبان- اشتیاق- هوس و نفرت- سادیسم و مازوخیسم------------------------------------------------دوستانِ عزیزم، «سارتر» موضوع سنگین و پیچیده ای را برای شرح دادن در این کتاب برگزیده است و پی در پی از جایی به جای دیگر پریده است... لذا برای آنکه شما با چکیده نظریات او آشنا شوید.. س
سعی کردم به بهترین شکل ممکن این کتاب را در چند خط برای شما دوستان خردگرا، خلاصه نویسی کنم‎عزیزانم، سمت و سوی عقیدهٔ «سارتر» بر این اساس است که نیستی به طور کامل نیستی نخواهد بود، یعنی نیستی ها نیز برای خود حقایق روشن و قابل فهم دارند‎به طور مثال: مسافت برای ما چیزیست که باید کوشش در آن بکار رود تا این مسافت پیموده شود و به عبارت دیگر این کوشش شامل حرکت ما میباشد که مسافت را از نیستی به هستی تبدیل میکند، در حالیکه میدانیم قبل از حرکتِ ما این مسافت در حالت نیستی وجود داشته است، بنابراین هر حقیقت مسلّم برای خود وضع خاصی دارد و تمامی اینها به هستی انسان مربوط میشود‎سارتر «وجدانِ انسان» را نماینده هستی در نظر گرفته است، و سپس هستی را به دو قسمت تقسیم کرده است: هستی مطلق و هستی معمولی...
I can not doubt him without doubting myself since [as Hegel put it,] ‘self-consciousness is real only in so far as it recognizes its echo (and its reflection) in another.’” Ultimately our self-awareness cannot be dissociated from our awareness of others, and this is what Sartre elsewhere (most notably in Existentialism Is A Humanism) expands in his idea of ‘intersubjectivity’ (and I’m actually surprised I didn’t meet up with this term in this book, as it would have been helpful.)One of the most important contributions of Sartre’s philosophy is his proclamation that we choose our lives.
gives essence to the world, to being-in-itself.
bad faith: a lack of authenticity, the most central, perhaps only, existential "moral." being what one is not.
so if one thinks, "well, i was going to fight for my fellow man's rights, but i didn't have the money" and still holds themself in high regard for at least having a good intent, they are acting in bad faith.
he (and common morality) think that since he had the right intentions, he is still heroic, yet sartre says that he instead is acting in bad faith and is actually a coward.
And in the end, the primary reason I am studying French is because I want to be able to read the book in its original language.I have been through this before.
It is about like 30 years ago when I reread the book all of those times in English.
Over the next three years I read and reread it seven times.
After that, I really had the content down and during the seventh I was able to comprehend everything like I would any other book during the first read through.Why would a 21 to 24 year-old be motivated to do such a thing?
Well, really, Being and Nothingness is a literary tract disguised as philosophy.
The many metaphors he uses to illustrate his points are not philosophical in nature, but imagistic and suggestive.
There is a certain wholeness to the book, but it reminds me more of Ulysses than Heidegger.
Although an important landmark for 20th century literature, it is an unpleasant book to read, and the pain is not worth the insular, faux insights.
He tries to create a philosophical no exit, but it really is more of an imagistic cul de sac.
You have to deal with existentialism at some point and this book essentially gives you one of the best starts on the subject.
Some people think that you'll feel like killing yourself after reading Sartre but honestly, this book had the opposite effect on me.
I took it more as if Sartre was telling me that human life still has value even if there's no point in having a life.
Read it and you'll see what I mean.
It takes a while to plow through it but it's worth the wait.
Even before fully reading it, you'll be blabbing about the transcendence of consciousness to all your friends.
Books likes these are what allows that kind of thinking to take place.
(Even in today's New York Times (February 6, 2016), I saw a story on how China thinks they need more men teachers because the male students are "timid, self centered and weak" like girls and need to be taught to be men.
This book's popularity during that time period is clearly because the way it tied itself to the various schools of psychoanalysis (Gestalt, Adler, experimental psychoanalysis, and even Freudian but with twists) and they could use Sartre's argument to re-enforce their psychoanalytical paradigms.
Nothingness is always an elsewhere." "Thus nothingness is this hole in being." "In fact since possibility precedes existence, it can be possibility only with respect to our thought." "Desire is a lack of being." "To borrow Heidegger's definition, the world is 'that in terms of which human reality makes known to itself what it is.'" "Once and for all we must raise the question: what is the being of a past being?" "The past is not nothing; neither is it the present; but at its very source it is bound to a certain present and a certain future, to both of which it belongs." Andre Malraux: "The terrible thing about Death is that it transforms life into Destiny." "Today I alone am responsible for the being of the dead Pierre, I in my freedom.
This book, the Bible of modern existentialism, is one of the most difficult and yet rewarding and thought-provoking books you will ever read. There is hardly a page here which does not need to be read over and over again in order to absorb and understand the insights and ideas that are being offered. No matter how much or how little you agree or disagree with Sartre, there is one thing guaranteed: after you read this book, you will never think about your life, yourself, or the world you live in the same way again.
The only time I ever passed out in my life was during the reading of this book. I actually felt and heard my brain pop and awoke on the floor next to the couch.This is an extremely difficult text. I recall spending an entire week on just one paragraph. I still do not fully understand this work but will eventually have to revisit it to complete something I am writing on Free Will.
I want to make clear that my rating only expresses my enjoyment of the book and not my respect for the impact it had on Western Thought.
century.
century without naming Sartre.
His ideas changed human life in many aspects.در سال های انتهایی جنگ دوم، وقتی سارتر در جنبش مقاومت فرانسه علیه اشغال نازی ها فعالیت داشت، این اثر را نوشت، که به عنوان مهم ترین اثر فلسفی قرن بیستم شناخته می شود.
متاسفانه این اثر مهم توسط عنایت الله شکیباپور به فارسی برگردانده شده، مترجمی که نه فلسفه می دانست، و نه فرانسه و فارسی اش چندان چنگی به دل می زد.
مشهور است که برخی از کتاب ها با نام شکیباپور بعنوان مترجم، توسط هیچ نویسنده ای نوشته نشده اند.در مورد ژان پل سارتر، مطلبی جداگانه نوشته ام؛ http://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
Iadul este... Introducerea la Ființa și Neantul :)Adică am studiat 3 cărți doar pentru a înțelege Introducerea. Restul până la pagina 850 este relativ comprehensibil. Și extraordinar!Foarte de ajutor mi-a fost cursul profesorului Paul Vincent Spade http://pvspade.com/Sartre/sartre.html Mi-a explicat toate conceptele și ideile de la Descartes până la Husserl, de la raționalism și idealism până la fenomenologie.O carte ca asta citesc o dată la 5 ani.
Verbose yet profound, I went through a myriad of emotions while reading this book. To find out how Sartre made me reconsider everything from my friendships to my relationship with truth, read a full-length essay on my blog.
Every ten or so pages I had to stop and do "The Chicken Dance", U know, where U flap your arms like a silly chicken at Oktoberfest and then shimmy on down!If U want to play a fun drinking game with the book have a drink every time ol' Jean-Paul uses the word "conscious" 'cuz he is waaaayyyy into consciousness!Mais le livre est superieure en francais, je pense!
Of the issues addressed is the historical/intellectual damage inflicted by Cartesian dualism and which Sartre attempts to repair, his arguments against theism and metaphysics, and most importantly, the premise of the "for-itself" upsurge from the "in-itself" aspect of all things in reality; and the 'nothingness' that arrives from the friction of the these two fields, serving for us all the well-spring of human experience and our own human reality (which suggests is an on-going stream of fiction that we all invent and buy into).I would not recommend this text to anyone unless they had first a) an authentic interest in philosophy and b) if they have had a firm prior understanding of both phenomenology and ontology.
In Sartre’s Being and Nothingness, he promotes the existentialist outlook that existence precedes essence.
It’s a view that opposes the Aristotelian quest for the meaning of something by asking after its function, and defining its virtue based on how well it performs that function.
Unlike inanimate objects Beings are in constant flux, in constant change, unable to be defined at any one given moment.
In day to-day existence we mingle with choices of who we want to be, become, and remold who we are now.
I found Sartre’s analysis of Being and notion of freedom very interesting.
Do you like to read words? This book has alot.Maybe Sartre and I have a connection beyond the limits of consciousness.This took me a very long time to digest.What a book!
Even in France today you find novelists such as Michel Houellebecq meeting universal approbation for portraying these very themes in contemporary culture (I guess as a historical moment in European philosophy the case is considered to be settled and left alone; yet another grim estimation of contemporary society).As for the book in question though, it is a trial to read.
Of greatest interest to me in reading Being and Nothingness was Sartre’s essential continuation of Heidegger’s existential analytic.
As such I will leave it at saying, whatever way you may feel about Sartre’s philosophy (or believe you feel from only minor association with his ideas as is the case with most philosophers), it really is an essential read these days.
You just gotta remember en-soi is objects within the world (the world in general) and pour-soui is human consciousness.What I love about this book is that it sets up an existentialist ethic of choosing pure unadalterated freedom and that in order to choose freedom one must make others free to in hence free one's self.
Once he shows that consciousness is actually "in the world" and not "in the mind" so to say he shows that we must actively participate in the world for our human freedom and for society's freedom.
What Sartre should have done, in my opinion, is publish the book with only one empty page in it - this would have probably gotten his point across.
For my money, Sartre's concept of "bad faith" is probably the most interesting part of this book; but even then, I feel like he could have summed up the idea in a couple sentences: "We shall…grant that bad faith is a lie to oneself…[and that] the one who practices bad faith is hiding a displeasing truth or presenting as truth a pleasing untruth (48-49)." Gotcha.
هذا أهم كتاب فلسفي للمدرسة الوجودية وهو أيضا مرجع إصلاحي هام لمعاني الإدراك وتلمس الذات والكون وفهم معنى الحقيقةسارتر في نظري أحد أهم ٥ فلاسفة في التاريخ وهو في هذا الكتاب صنع مجد حكمته وفرضياته وحجتهسيجبرك الكتاب على وضع كثير من قناعاتك في محك المراجعة والتردد
Do you like to read words? This book has alot.Maybe Sartre and I have a connection beyond the limits of consciousness. I think so.This took me a very long time to digest.i love you. But don't take my word for it!
I was 11 the first time I read Sartre. The theory of existentialism in his words made me wiser and more afraid. I am still terrified but would rather be that than oblivious.
Preface to the Routledge Classics EditionIntroductionTranslator's Preface--Being and NothingnessKey to Special TerminologyName Index
