https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70539.2010
At the end of the previous book the spaceship Discovery is abandoned in Jupiter’s orbit and the ship’s single survivor, David Bowman, went through a gigantic monolith that turns out to be a portal of some kind, and nobody has heard from him since.
I do like hard SF, the real world science enhances the verisimilitude of the futuristic plot.
The giant "Big Brother/Zagadka" monolith at Jupiter (click to embiggen)For example, Clarke’s application of scientific minutiae during Floyd’s exploration of the Discovery derelict makes for a wonderfully atmospheric scene (love the surprising  Ridley Scott’s Alien reference).
First, and one of the things that I love to read old sci-fi books for, is what Clarke in the 80s thought 2010 was going to look like.
This is how you know you're scary good; half of the book is trying to figure out what's going on with crazy computer Hal, unless it's dealing with the strange things on Europa, or wait, there are these aliens that aren't aliens SURPRISE DAVID BOWMAN I mean what?
Space Baby's Big Day Out.After the events in 2001 (Dave becoming a Space Baby, HAL being shut down while singing), the world is left in wonder about what happened out near Saturn..JUPITER!
Anyway, partnerships all are happy, joint U.S. and Russian crew.So this is the story of recovering HAL and the further adventures of Space Baby Dave.
And while it isn't as grand and as awe inspiring as 2001, it's still a fun read with lots of nerdy details and some small instances of more than two dimensional characterisation.
Maybe they are retired to some higher dimension or some other bullshit.The events are plausible and very much fun.
2010: Odyssey Two (Space Odyssey #2), Arthur C. Clarkeتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و یکم ماه آوریل سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: 2010 : اودیسه دو؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی. کلارک؛ مترجم: رضا فاضل؛ تهران، سرش، 1371؛ در 340 ص؛ شابک: 9644350227؛آیا انسان میتواند به ماورای ماده عروج کند؟ پاسخ دکتر آرتور سی. کلارک٬ مخترع ماهواره ی مخابراتی و برنده جوایز بیشمار فیزیک٬ ریاضی و ادبی٬ در داستان علمی - تخیلی «ادیسه دو» شگفت آور است. ا. شربیانی
Clarke's sequel to 2001, has Dr. Heywood Floyd, again recruited on a joint U.S. and Soviet(written in 1982)expedition, to the giant planet.To find out what happened!The crew of the Soviet ship Leonov ,consists of seven Russians and three Americans,with both male and female members.Dr.Floyd,Dr. Chandra, builder of the malfunctioning computer Hal(a long repair trip) and Walter Curnow a systems specialist, are the Americans.Curnow job is to get Discovery working again before it crashes down on Io ,a hellish volcanic world and one of the many Jovian moons.
Its constant color changes, white, red , orange, and the Great Red Spot.But something strange is seen from the Leonov,a black image is spreading on the Fifth Planet.Soon it will engulf the entire sphere....What is it?
Kada se cita prosto imas pred ocima sve ono o cemu gosn Klark pise.
Prosto ne verovatno.S druge strane isto mi se svidja kolko je covek ispred svog vremena kada govori i o daleko ljudskijim stvarima ka sto seksualnost ili brak bez problema provlaceci veze izmedju vise ljudi ili ljudi stog pola.
Iskreno kada sam bio u osnovnoj ovakve stvari su mi totalno i promakle dok sada se nadam da i drugi pisci mogu biti ne napadni u takvim segmentima.Sta drugo reci, odlican nastavak na jedan od naj knjiga SF zanra i jos jedno obavezno stivo.
This is an excellent and underrated novel.Clarke was and still is under fire from critics beacuse of his characters.Either they are wooden or unrealistic (though realistic characters are pure fantasy) or rudimentary or stock or.... I don't know... some similiar nonsense.What they don't,or maybe don't want to understand is that Clarke was a "big picture"writer.He was a visionary who lived in the future.He was someone who was aware that we are nothing compared to the wonders of the Cosmos.Through his masterpieces he was the one who showed us those wonders.2010 is one of his many masterpieces.
Είναι πραγματικά η επιστημονική φαντασία στα καλύτερά της!!
Πολύ ρεαλιστικές περιγραφές του Δία και των δορυφόρων του, παρ' όλο που δεν υπήρχαν όλα τα στοιχεία που έχουμε σήμερα γι' αυτούς.
Σε συνδυασμό με την απαράμιλλη φαντασία του Clarke έχουμε ένα αποτέλεσμα άνευ προηγουμένου.
Το μόνο αρνητικό του βιβλίου είναι η κακή του μετάφραση η οποία αρκετές φορές σε κουράζει και σε κάνει να μη θες να διαβάσεις.
Οπότε προτείνω, αν θέλετε να το διαβάσετε κάντε το στα αγγλικά ή σε κάποια άλλη μετάφραση.
Which is obviously true, but I find my own ideas to be better in sync with those of Isaac Asimov and Carl Sagan which hold the belief in human intelligence, our ability to overcome our weaknesses and the potential of conquering the cosmos without needing any sort of external intervention.It also occurs to me that despite being a close friend of Carl Sagan, Clarke was highly inclined towards theistic philosophies and his idea, showing invisible masters guarding and helping the intelligences, can be said to be the manifestation serving his purpose of having deities in real world.His description of HAL 9000, the self-conscious artificial intelligence aboard Discovery, and the treatment it is subjected to, raises many questions and concerns about our ethics of dealing with non-human, non-organic intelligence.
Their voyage doesn't really seem all that harrowing in this story, and even if it was, I was so uninterested with the characters that I probably would have appreciated it more if they had all died.
Yes, those characters were probably the most, if not only, interesting part about this book, but even they couldn't salvage this yawn - inducing mission.
Clarke really liked the word "myriad." It's all over this book.
So much so, that if one were to make a drinking game every time they saw the word here, they would probably go blind and die.
The movie sequel is not as good as the original, but in many ways I think this might be Clarke's most polished effort. He actually takes the time to think out a plot and characters, and it's interesting to see what happens following the events in the first book/movie.
In fact, the book is quite boring as no one ends up being killed and nothing much seems to go wrong, and in effect it just speculative Sci-Fi about Alien intellegences (this time on one of Jupiters moon - Europa).
It was ok as a read, not one of the better Arthur C Clarke books I have read, and some aspects of it - like Jupiter turning in a Sun at the end of the book (Bowmans being/spirit visits one of the joint venture crewpersons to warn them to leave the Jovian system before Jupiter goes kind of supernova from the Monolith they find that is millennia years old) was umm, quite boring.
Recommended for fans of 2001: A Space Odyssey"The Universe isn't just stranger than you ever imagined. The Universe is stranger than you CAN imagine." This novel is a slow-build, a slowly revealed unraveling of cosmic triggers. Clarke writes a narrative that doesn't just entertain--it informs, it elucidates and it expands the mind beyond its narrowly defined corridors. And that's the point.
Heywood Floyd and a couple of other Americans join the Russians on a trip to rescue the stranded spaceship Discovery and learn what happened to astronaut David Bowman, who disappeared at the end of 2001.
And when David Bowman disappeared, the Discovery was orbiting Saturn.
Clarke decided to follow the movie adaptation of his book when he wrote the sequel, instead of following the plot of the original book.
Silly man--didn't he know the book was WAY better than the movie?
This series started as a one-off book released in conjunction with the Stanley Kubrick movie of the same name.
The series consists of: * 2001: A Space Odyssey * 2010: Odyssey Two.
(Also made into a film) * 2061 Odyssey Three * 3001: The Final OdysseyThe first and second books are enthralling.
When I finally just relaxed and accepted the fact that there are mystical things going on, I realized that this is the whole point.
The reader is supposed to be in awe, and there are some things that mankind is not meant to know (yet).
Just remember to accept the mystery and embrace the sense of wonder.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=561
"Çok uzun zaman önce bu deneye başlamış olanlar insan ya da ona benzer bir canlı değillerdi. Ancak etten ve kandandılar ve uzayın derinliklerine baktıklarında korkuyla karışık bir saygı, merak ve yalnızlık hissetmişlerde. Güç elde eder etmez de, yıldızlara doğru yolculuk etmeye başlamışlardı.Araştırma sırasında, çok çeşitli yaşam türleri ile karşılaşmışlardı ve binlerce gezegenin evrim süreçlerini izlemişlerdi. Kozmik gecede ilk zeka pırıltılarının ne sıklıkta parıldayıp söndüğünü görmüşlerdi.Tüm Galakside, "bilinç"ten daha değerli bir şey bulamadıklarından, onun her yerde doğması için çaba gösterdiler. Yıldız tarlalarının çiftçileri oldular; ektiler, bazen de biçtiler.Bazen de soğukkanlılıkla zararlı otları ayıkladılar."
Nothing in my daily life makes me face my bigger place in the universe like a well written science fiction book can.And so when I was done with Baxter, I briefly considered rereading one of his older books, but at the last minute I decided it was time to go back to 2010, which I’ve never read.I know, I’m lame.
But it gets grandfathered in as being great since I saw it at such an impressionable time in my life.When I picked up this book, I was a bit surprised that Clarke immediately said, in his introduction to this novel, that the places where 2001 the novel differed from 2001 the movie, mean that he was going with the movie’s continuity instead of his own.

The novel was nominated for Hugo Award in 1983.The story starts were the previous book ends – there is a unknown alien artifact on a moon of Jupiter and one human already assessed it, vanishing from our space-time.
It is interesting to note that the ship captain is a woman – it isn’t the first instant, but nevertheless quite unusual for the early 80s SF.
This ship is not the only one – Chinese also try to get there (again, quite prophetic, for in 1980 China almost twice as poor as India and more than 10 times poorer than Brazil).
New alien life forms discovered.
Labs sci-fi. Vienīgi prasījās mazliet vairāk notikumu. Bet lasījās raiti un interesanti.
Studying Big Brother seems to be the only way to find out.All in all, Floyd and the rest of Leonov's crew are led on a breathtaking and uncanningly dangerous mission, one that beholds things humans have never experienced in any way, shape or form.Heywood Floyd was asked to be a part of the redezvous with Discovery, and at first is on the rocks because of his new wife Caroline who is appalled at the thought that he is even considering leaving his little son.
Don't get me wrong, I loved the characters of the first book, but I loved the way the many people who were in this book interacted.I think the ending of the first book is known for being a little confusing and hard to understand what was going on, even in the movie, I did find that I could follow the plot of this book more easily.
I thought the plot of this book was very good, much better than what I expected.
I was a good way to try to get myself motivated to incorporate more time for reading into my life even when I am busy with other things like school.
Given that title, it should be a sequel to the novel 2001: A Space Odyssey, but it's not.
Where the novel and the book differ, 2010 follows the movie, expect where it changes things to make this novel more consistent.
Since it's been a long time since I've seen the movie, I'm not aware of what those differences are.
In this novel, since the action almost entirely take place off-planet, he avoids having to write about ordinary people, which isn't his strong suit.
I'm most impressed with the ending - other novels by Mr. Clark end with more of a whimper than a bang, but this one ends well.
Wow! I really can't think of anyone who can match Arthur C. Clarke in his ability to instill a sense of timeless wonder and awe that just makes your mind orgasm with joy!Clarke's writing is just beautiful to read. He makes you understand all the technical stuff, but does it in the most poetic way imagineable.The last few chapters and the epilogue reminded me of why I love Arthur C. Clarke. Just brilliant!
The second half was slightly better mainly because we find HAL-9000 again and what the heck happened with him.I think Clarke tried to put some characterization for his astronauts, but it didn't work, specially when most of it was to tell us who, why and how characters acted, thought and believed.And some things were contradictory regarding the first book.
Researching again, I found out Clarke changed the story to match the movie of the book.I guess I can understand the reason, but it's strange to say, read a story in England, but then in the sequel you change it so that everything happened in the US and it becomes the new canon, because of a TV show.Only around the last ~20% or 15% things picked up.
2010: Odyssey Two tells the story of Heywood Floyd, whose family problems got in the way of space exploration.
Other than that the storytelling was good and the science was sound and holds up well even today.
The other main character, David Bowman (ascended form) was cool, and it helped understand the ending of the first book at least a little.
It's strange how a book with no real antagonist can keep hold of my interest so firmly.
There is no 'evil' in these books, only the unpredictable and ruthless nature of space.
The ending was, like in the previous book, very grand.
I greatly appreciated the incredible amounts of creativity and excellence that went into this book to make it a sci-fi unlike any other.As a new reader to the genre, it was truly amazing, the kinds of information I learned.
I also had a hard time getting to know the crew, I felt as though the character development for each was too broad for me to follow and I could not, for the life of me, remember who was who.Overall, I will be seeking out new Arthur C Clarke books as I greatly enjoy his writing style and vast ‘knowledge’ on space-that-has-not-yet-been-discovered.
Jupiter and its satellites are miraculously presented with spectacular details...I felt as if I am myself there in the ship inspecting the strange monolith and the abyss...the orange, red color of the sky is very vibrant...A futuristic novel, with astonishing technology....The novel proves, man's imagination and destiny has no limitations...I specially loved the ending with two suns..our earth in between two suns :) such a rich and vivid imagination!
The novelist has furthermore presented the lives of Astronaut in a most humane way.
The way Flyod loves his wife and son Chris and remembers them in the spaceship is very touching..
بزرگترین معضل این کتاب، اینه که دنبالهای بر فیلمنامهٔ اودیسهٔ فضاییه و نه بر کتابش. در فیلمی که کوبریک از این داستان ساخته، به دلیل محدودیتهای زمانی و فنّی اون زمان، برخی روایات به گونهای دیگه تصویر شدند. برای مثال، تکسنگ برادر بزرگ، بهجای این که روی قمری از زحل باشه، در مداری از مشتری قرار گرفته. کلارک هم گویا مغلوب بزرگی اثر روی پردهٔ نقرهای شده و بهجای این که وقایع کتاب رو دنبال کنه، داستان سادهشدهٔ فیلم رو ادامه میده.به جز این نکته، بقیهٔ موارد کتاب خیلی خوب بودن و داستان کشش خوبی داره.تنها
‫بزرگ‌ترین معضل این کتاب،‌ اینه که دنباله‌ای بر فیلم‌نامهٔ اودیسهٔ فضاییه و نه بر کتابش.
در فیلمی که کوبریک از این داستان ساخته، به دلیل محدودیت‌های زمانی و فنّی اون زمان، برخی روایات به گونه‌ای دیگه تصویر شدند.
برای مثال، تکسنگ برادر بزرگ، به‌جای این که روی قمری از زحل باشه، در مداری از مشتری قرار گرفته.
At times confusing. Rather shallow characters (it tells a lot that the most interesting one is a computer). Uneven pacing...Despite these flaws, there's something about this novel that makes it feel fresh over thirty years after its publication. Maybe it's in the vagueness in describing the extraterrestrial intelligence. Or maybe it's the fact that we're finally about to enter the time of computers like HAL.In any case, this is a space adventure well worth experiencing.
