https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1383945.Spring_and_All
Williams seems more like a fisherman to me, but I haven't quite decided.*)While Pound and Eliot were busy abroad, fighting for American Poetry in the cultural citadels of Paris and London, the quieter types back home were busy changing the language itself.
In Greenwich Village, there was Marianne Moore, filling the gardens of her precise syllabic poems with non-metrical music and more than a few “real toads”; in Hartford, Connecticut, there was Wallace Stevens, combining Whitman’s opulence with Symbolist fluidity in a search for metaphysical delight; in Franconia, New Hampshire, there was Robert Frost, transforming the blank verse of Emerson and Bryant into something ironic and modern; and, in Patterson, New Jersey, there was William Carlos Williams.I am not sure exactly what Williams contributed to this American revolution in poetry, but, whatever it was, I’ll bet you it was the most American thing of all.
"imagination is not to avoid reality, nor is it description nor an evocation of objects or situation
Juxtaposing abstract prose with concrete verse, Spring and All reads as both dated and fresh. Williams's polemical theorizing about poetics in the collection's prose sections so often exhausts the patience of contemporary readers. But the poet's lucid phrasing, sinuous imagery, and aversion to symbolism make his verse feel hyper-accessible. Had Williams allowed his poetry to speak more for itself, the collection as a whole would have aged much better.
I'm not sure how I made it into my mid-twenties without discovering William Carlos Williams. This is one of the most exciting books of poetry I've read in a while, and it really must be read as a volume. I never much cared for the brief snippets of Williams I had encountered in the past, but in context, strung out one after the other, the book is luminous and astonishing.
While The Waste Land and Ulysses still adhere to many conventions of form and narrative, Spring and All sets itself apart from the outset with something that resembles an introduction...What do you they mean when they say: "I do not like your poems; you have no faith whatever.
- Spring and All, XXIVMore prominently, Williams writes about art and imagination.
It is only thus that the work escapes plagiarism after nature and becomes creation - Spring and All, VIIIThe only means he has to give value to life is to recognize it with the imagination and name it; this is so.
The answer is 'poetry'; the publication date was 1923, and the book is a heated response to The Waste Land ("THE TRADITIONALISTS OF PLAGIARISM," he writes) and the early work of WCW's pal Ezra Pound ("nothing / I have done...
Hugh Kenner once remarked on how knowledge of etymology serves a reader of Williams exactly not at all, and it's easy to see why this is so, with WCW's determination to work in complete independence of the received literary tradition.
I have no empirical knowledge of the effect of drugs on human consciousness, yet when I finish reading an astounding work of poetry, I invariably wonder if this is what it feels like to be high on crack cocaine.I revel in prose.
It is something that can deprive one of sleep.There is a nonaggressive firmness in Williams' poetry, an organic suture between various poles, so fine that it is barely perceptible.
All that is cold in his poetry is soothing, all that is warm never burns.The realm of his imagination is even without being flat.
[rating = A-]This manifesto of modernist poetry is a wonderful introduction to the thoughts of Mr. Williams.
Some of his most famous poems are here "red wheelbarrow" and others.
Though at times the poet goes a bit mad with his ideas, they, at most times, are clear.
But really, this is more about the poetry.
Sometimes Mr. Williams can be allusive and at others he is magnificent.
I loved this collection and I will read it often, a pure wonder of the "Imagination".
This is poetry as it should be, comprehensible and a combinations of sensory and metaphor, not pretentious rubbish that goes for Postmodern.
Simply fantastic
He’s set up a playground that will make some readers giggle as they wind and dart through the words, that will cause fierce playground spitfights, knock a few readers on their asses because they didn’t see the swing coming back at them, and make some violently ill with the spin.I was always a playground bystander, unwilling to jump into the fray, so I think the Gipsy is Williams, the Paradise is a false one, and the amusing blandness of the leaves – sheathes and sheathes of tomes of leaves – are overwrought attempts at Great Prose or Great Poetry.

This book was one of the most inspiring pieces of imagination I have read.
CWC writes in a manner that seems to rather float out of his head naturally.
The mixture of poetry in verses and philosophy in free form glide through the pages and immediately translate into images, without passing through logical understanding.
He managed to put concepts into words that I had yet failed to hold in my mind long enough to be able for them to be put in an order, he made me realise my absolute passion for poetry and art and helped me understand and recognise my own line of reasoning behind them.
Meh.The actual poems were beautiful and interesting, but his stream-of-consciousness blahblahblah passages were insufferably boring and tedious. If I didn;t have to read this for class, I would have just read the poem-poems and skipped the prose-poems.
this is the one with the red wheelbarrow glazed with chicken shit
Williams wants concrete local images to break with tradition. The poems are OK. The prose lacks clarity, plausibility, argument.
The book was not reprinted in full until 1970, when New Directions Press published it together with four other books by Williams in a volume titled "Imaginations".Imaginations: Kora in Hell / Spring and All / The Descent of Winter / The Great American Novel / A Novelette & Other Prose (A New Directions paperbook) The editor of the "Imaginations" volume, Webster Schott, describes "Spring and All" as "a fooling-around book that became a crucial book."Many years ago, I read "Spring and All" in the "Imaginations" volume.
But Williams uses his idea of great poetry (my term) as a way to justify why his particular style of free verse is more “authentic” or “real” or “honest” than those writing in other formats – not only metrical poets but writers of prose.
(Yes, Hamlet says that, but he’s a fictional character.) Most poets of any age would say a poem is complex work in which the poet and the listener/reader interact.Yes, there’s lots and lots of bad poetry out there.
Yet he associates his idea of an “imaginative” understanding of the world with his writing of non-metrical poetry.
Perhaps the Red Wheelbarrow should only ever be read in the context of this slim little volume. Williams is a long held love of mine, and this text is pivotal in understanding his poetics. Read this and then ask yourself why you reach for metaphor, and what is the imagination for, and how does poetry get in through the cracks?
Transitional death rattle of Modernism, or something, I guess?
William Carlos Williams is so much more than the "Red Wheelbarrow". 'Spring and All' is a stunning theory on aesthetics and art, a work in which theory intermingles with poetry in ways that cannot be separated clearly, in ways that are more than a mere development of the theory.
In fact, most of the original (1923) copies of SPRING AND ALL, printed by the same French publisher who brought out James Joyce's ULYSSES, were confiscated by US Customs for being immoral.
I am glad that the work has survived, and was republished, in its entirety, by New Directions Publishing Co.SPRING AND ALL is made up of interwoven poetry, prose, and fragments of prose which may be considered flash fiction, although that term is of more recent creation.
In fact, SPRING AND ALL is dedicated to Charles Demuth, a Modernist, watercolor painter who met Williams in college.SPRING AND ALL is a beautifully stirring collection of works by an early twentieth-century poet, writer, and physician.
Although this is in some ways a kind of manifesto or intellectual exploration of the relationship between an author and a reader, what poetry is as a genre and what is poetic, the nature of prose as a potentially distinct genre from poetry, and what distinguishes them, if anything, it's also (and really primarily) a creative work of poetryprose(???) that embodies and enacts and lives and breathes how Williams thinks about and approaches the issue.
This takes place not just in the moments that appear to be prosaic, but also points of departure to what we might more traditionally call poetry.It's in those moments of pure creativity (and, as Williams emphasizes the importance of, imagination), I think, that the book really comes to life.
Imagination is not to avoid reality, nor is it description nor an evocation of objects or situations
what a truly extraordinary book of poetry. at once modernist manifesto and poetry collection, WCW is funny, clever, and dispenses beautiful language. he displays self-awareness when he notes his points are "said half a dozen times already," and he has a wonderful talent in switching between large sweeping statements covering the history of humanity/ies and small details. i can't believe i didn't read this two years ago for the class i was supposed to read it for.
For whatever reason, really enjoyed this. Williams mixes a manifesto in prose up with his work. His poetry always seemed so inaccessible to me, but reading it alongside his often rather enjoyable, quirky prose helped shed light on things. He is the uber modernist: yes our perception changes things, yes it's all contextual, but damnit, there IS a stable reality around which all of this swirls.
Not as mind-blowing as the first time I read through it as a freshman in college, but still, such a read. His poetry in here is some of his best. "Of Death" "So Much Depends" "By the Road to the Contagious Hospital" it's all here. His prose trails off, is dogmatic, is too modern... I mean, how did he get this published without editing. Ah the 20s.
Forget the way you read these poems back in literature class, to find them here in their original context makes them more weird and makes WCW a much different poet.
This new blue edition is beautiful!
Carson’s Eros studies ancient Greek texts, starting with Sappho’s love poetry, and teases out the essence of Eros by combining erudition and lyrical aplomb, though staying within framework of non-fiction.
Gass’s Blue takes off into lyrical fancies, but like Carson’s Eros, never quite stops being non-fiction with a message.
The prose sections demonstrate Williams' philosophy of writing - how imagination plays a role, the differences between poetry and prose, and what makes a poet and a non-poet, why some poets are famous.
There are 25 poems in this book, but I would've liked to have more of them, as opposed to the prose, because the prosaic writing is easy to get lost in.
Reading this book makes a world of difference in understanding the way he writes, what he thinks, and his philosophy of writing, and therein lies its value, otherwise I might read his poems in sequence instead.
