https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2250763.The_Last_Post
Perhaps an Englishman would know where Ford stood on the questions, but to an American it seems as if he is acknowledging both the weaknesses of the old ways and their strengths, and what was lost and gained in the war and its aftermath.
And what happens when you pit a woman raised by a liberal academic Latinist against an upper class loony schooled by nuns?Ford returns to the country in Last Post, where No More Parades started.
In this last book there is the running lampooning of the Americans and their money come to England after the war to acquire a veneer of noble houses and vintage furniture.
I feel a sense of achievement (and I must admit, also relief!) at having completed reading Ford's tetralogy "Parade's End".This stream of consciousness stuff really doesn't work very well for me. Some of it would be fine, but four books of it?! Still, I'm glad I had the experience of reading the entire work.
One of the devices frequently used by great authors is to show a villainous or absurd figure, then by shifting the viewpoint to that individual, reveal a rational and sympathetic person dealing with difficult circumstances.
Ford has done this in earlier volumes of the series, particularly with Sylvia.
However, he opens this book by doing the exact opposite, taking two sympathetic and reasonable looking figures and revealing through their inner life that they are a couple of nincompoops.
LAST POST. (1928). Ford Madox Ford. ***. This was the last novel in Ford’s tetrology, “Parade’s End.” The first three were: “Some Do Not,” (1924), “No More Parades,” (1925), and “A Man Could Stand Up,” (1926). The central protagonists of these novels were the Tietjens. In this last episode, Mark Tietjens has had a stroke, and can do no more than lie in bed and be seen to by those around him. What this does is to allow Ford to examine the thoughts and positions of those who were ancillary charact
This was the last novel in Ford’s tetrology, “Parade’s End.” The first three were: “Some Do Not,” (1924), “No More Parades,” (1925), and “A Man Could Stand Up,” (1926).
In this last episode, Mark Tietjens has had a stroke, and can do no more than lie in bed and be seen to by those around him.
I found this to be a very confusing book, in that it really doesn’t add anything to the series except a kind of bitter ending.
I think that if you read the first three novels, you could then say – with only the guilt of a white lie – that you had read “Parade’s End.”

Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide.Opening lines:HE lay staring at the withy binders of his thatch; the grass was infinitely green; his view embraced four counties; the roof was supported by six small oak sapling-trunks, roughly trimmed and brushed from above by apple boughs. French crab-apple! The hut had no sides.This is the last book of the tetralogy "Parade's End" but is not so compelling as the previous book.
Wish I could have read the first and fourth books and skipped the bit in the middle.
Having now got to the end of the 4 books in the series the final verdict is probably not worth the effort. The narrative is irritatingly scattered, characters come and go without resolution or much reason and the overall story is not particularly exciting. A disappointment after "The Good Soldier" which is one of my favorites. (Purchased at Ca' Foscarina bookshop, Venice)
I didn't like this one as much as the others, but did appreciate it trying to fill in some blanks, or have the characters interact one more time.I was about to say that Sylvia (that bitch) needed her own book, a chance to tell her own story- but then she pulled that shit with Groby great tree.Really looking forward to watching the tv show now.
This is a well written novel. Some may love it; for me it lacked appeal.
The Last Post by Ford Madox FordAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Parade’s End has been included on the Modern Library list of the 100 best books written in English during the last century.Available here:- http://www.modernlibrary.com/top-100/...The Last Post is the last tome in this wondrous tetralogy.I have noted on the first marvelous novels in the series:- Some Do Not, No More Pa

Originally published on my blog here in September 2000.Dorothy Parker thought that Ford should not have written this novel, which concludes his Parade's End sequence, and that he should have just left Christopher Tietjens destroyed, shellshocked at the end of the First World War, as described in A Man Could Stand Up. This book does make a strange ending, notable for the way in which it almost completely ignores the central character of the three earlier novels.
Ford, having written about the effect of the war itself, now wants to say something about the effects of peace.The writing of The Last Post, especially in the sections told form the point of view of the invalid Paul, is masterful.
With one or two reservations, a lovely piece of work, well worth reading in its own right.In some ways it suffers from the fact that it is the last act of the Parade’s End tetralogy.
It’s a lovely piece of work – but, viewed as a component of the whole, it falls down a little because it’s designed differently.True, many of the loose ends of the previous novels are tied up in The Last Post.
But this isn’t conceivable since The Last Post depends umbilically on the previous three novels for its substance; and for the same reason you can’t help but draw comparisons with them, and it doesn’t quite match up.So, does it end the marvellous and memorable tetralogy on a high note?
The Last Post is the final novel in Ford Madox Ford's tetralogy Parade's End. The setting is after "The Great War" at Groby, the Tietjen's ancestral home, where Christoper shares a cottage with Valentine Wannop, his pregnant lover; Mark, his brother; and Marie Leonie, Mark's wife.
The culminating events are the cutting down of The Groby Great Tree, the symbol of the Tietjen's ancestral heritage and the death of Mark, the last of the family tradition.The Last Post is perhaps the most Modernist of the four novels comprising Parade's End. Ford certainly presents the reader with the "Now" with none of the conventions of traditional story-telling.
The title refers to a bugle tune.
The story's finale is a stylistic mish-mash of the thoughts of all the characters, primarily centered around Tiejtens' older brother Mark who has had a stroke and is dying.The inheritance, a great estate, should go to Tiejtens, but he rejects it as Mark once passedon lies about him to their father.Everyone lies about the noble Tiejtens in the most vicious ways, perhaps a reflection of his goodness.He ends up selling used furniture, an unthinkable idea for someone of his class.
Sylviaclinches bitch of the book, while his love for Valentine may offer hope for happiness.
I strongly suspect that I cannot understand 'big' books.
Books that are literary classics and great, full of symbolism and witty words.
But it means, like like mathematics and PE at school, that I do not enjoy it.
It culminates into something quite boring with constant ellipses, internal dialogue and stream-of-consiousness ramblings that don't really go anywhere.However, I can respect this as a literary work.
I just wish I could study it and write essays about it with other people who are reading it for the first time, asking difficult but interesting questions in a seminar type set up that would actually make me enjoy it.
Last Post feels different from the rest of the tetrology; it's less riotous and covers less range. Yet this is appropriate for a novel which is occupied with the attempt to allow the weary to gradually come to rest, even if rest is that of death or obscurity. Of course, Last Post doesn't bring everything to a complete stop, but the questions remaining unanswered are re-articulated into vehicles to carry them into the future. Some lovely things were done with Sylvia's character here, as well as the refinement of Christopher's character - and his return.
toughest of the four books in Ford's Parade's end. the entire narrative lives in the minds of the characters with much of it being in the mind of a completely immobile character who is on his death bed. Still, it advances the stories of the central characters and brings the whole 900 page saga to a close. to a close with a final quote that left me scratching my head. Tough book overall for a guy that reads for narrative and not necessarily the greater meaning. My final recommendation: don't read these books, just rent the terrific BBC production.
This is a quite note of my view of the whole four book series. This is one of the most underrated English novels but now perhaps it is coming into its own and being recognised for the masterpiece it is. The first time I read it about 20 years ago I did not read the fourth one but this time I did and it works beautifully as a summing up of the brilliant time shifts, recall and reminders of past events which characterise the whole series.
Last book in the PARADE'S END quartet. Tom Stoppard wrote an astonishingly good/faithful adaptation for HBO, so no need for any but Ford fans, or fans of English lit. from the 1920s, to explore the texts. I thought the best was the 3rd, A MAN COULD STAND UP, and this last possibly the weakest because the focus shifted away from the main character in the first 3.
With the protagonist of the previous three books absent until the final few pages, this is admittedly a peculiar conclusion to Ford's WWI epic, but in many ways a worthy one, with all of the rich psychological insight and deft, nuanced evocation of English character, politics, and landscapes of its predecessors.
Graham Greene apparently was very critical of the fourth volume. And he might have been right. FMF breaks the tight perspective and architecture of the previous three volumes and seems to be more intent on demonstrating his capabilities as a writer than at telling a a compelling story. Still definitely worthwhile to read and round of the the tale of Tietjens et alia.
Enjoyed the quartet immensely. Funny, moving, thoughtful, examines the minutiae of life as well as the big questions. The war was very movingly written about without sentiment or fudging. And such fascinating characters. Excellent. Can't believe I haven't read them before. Classics.
A satisfying ending to the Tietjens tetralogy: WW1 has ended and the main characters are rebuilding their lives. It was difficult reading but I enjoyed the whole series. I was surprised though that we never hear from Tietjens himself in this part. While Groby tree is being cut down!
A fine ending to the Tietjens saga.
It felt unfinished to me because of the fact that in the final book none of it was from Christopher's perspective.
I have an unpopular opinion in that I think I like this one best of the lot. See why on my blog.
