https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7017673-within-a-budding-grove-part-1
This is a review of Autour de Mme Swann, the first part of A l’Ombre des Jeunes Filles en Fleurs, published separately in this Garnier-Flammarion edition.This section of A la Recherche du Temps Perdu reminded me of the soldier who hid under the wide skirts of Oskar’s grandmother in Gunter Grass's The Tin Drum and who found pleasure there but who must have crawled out half suffocated at the end.
The title itself, A l’ombre des Jeunes filles en fleurs conjures up a similar image for me: the narrator crouching in the shadow of voluminous flowery skirts, taking some pleasure but suffering too, just as I did while reading.
The section on the holiday to Balbec was a lot more interesting to me than the first half of the book and the description of how the grandmother cared for the sick narrator is tenderly drawn.
It interested me how the maid travelled with the family members and formed her own relationships with the staff at the hotel.
To travel with the family she wore clothing which had been handed down to her but which she had refashioned in a way to suit her station, using her own sewing skills.
Kun pääsee sisälle niin loistavuus tulee aina vain selkeämmäksi.Toki tuntuu välittyvän sellainen kuva, että harva asia tekee meidät onnelliseksi, jos sen saavutamme. Nautimme tai osaamme antaa paljon enemmän arvoa asioille, kun meillä ei niitä ole. Näitä lukee myös kuin esseinä kokemisesta, näkemisestä ja tuntemisesta. Toki jos ei jaksa keskittyä tai muita asioita pyörii mielessä, hukkaan menee. Ei siis liiallisen stressin poistajana vaan rentoutumisen tehostajana.
There are some rather zenlike observations in here but god these books are boring. Boring and far too long.
I loved Swann's Way and was really looking forward to reading this next one in the series.
Proust still shines in those moments he's describing and commenting human behaviour and emotions.
It was quite fascinating to read his honest narration of him trying to manipulate Gilberte Swann.
But I have to admit I enjoyed Proust telling the story of Mr. Swann in the last book far better than talking about himself in this book.
do we have to talk about what someone is wearing for 4 pages in a row?) that bored me and that is why I won't feel like grabbing the next book for a while.
I am a failure at Marcel Proust.
Although I did get through part 1 of Swann's Way and kind of enjoyed it (but missed part 2),I gave up Part 1 of Within a Budding Grove at about the 3/4 mark.
Reading it felt like being trapped in a room with a person who could not, would not, stop talking--a constant running commentary on everything, with no breaks in between topics, no stopping to check that the other person was still alive, just incessant talk.
I couldn't stand it any more and decided there were other things more shameful than giving up on Proust.
A writer in the true classic tradition with a plethora of metaphors and similes to guide you through the maze of feelings that make up the landscape of sentient beings. Now I know where Henry James gets his sentence structure and preciousness. I should note here that I did my thesis on James. I'm a glutton for verbal punishment. I'm also getting a lot of gardening done listening.
You hardly notice most of the time, and it should be disorientating, but it isn't - I don't know quite how he pulls it off really.----I started the Place names: the place section of Within a Budding Grove - the first couple of dozen or so pages are taken up by a description of a train journey from Paris to Balbec, and - maybe it was just my mood - but it felt like one of the most wonderful passages of prose I have ever read.
I did not feel that Within a Budding Grove ever enchanted me the way that Swann's Way, the first section of Proust's Remembrance of Things Past, did. It took me months to finish, and I was bored by this section. The author's recounting of his adolescence, even his love for Gilberte, seemed oddly detached, affected, and more like the emotions of an elderly man obsessed with a young girl. There were moments, but it failed to keep my interest.
Part two finished, five to go!It is my intention to finish the entire work but I need a break for now. The character of "Marcel" in his adolescence begins to seem really tiresome and the novel at times tedious. Impressive as it is, not always pleasurable. My edition is a two volume set of the entire work published by Random House. The English translation is the original by Scott Moncrieff. Expect some English slang and references for the benefit of comprehension.
Although I loved Swann's Way, the first section of Proust's epic, Remembrance of Things Past, I was really bored by most of the second section, Within a Budding Grove.
When the author described his life as a child, in Swann's Way, his imagery was beautiful and mesmerizing.
The author's life as a young man is much less attractive, although his mind is very keen and philosophical.
Within a Budding Grove, Proust depicts a man who is becoming a physical and mental invalid.
Moreover, he has become sexually corrupt (frequenting whores) but fails to understand how unattractive that makes him to his young girl friend.
Funny. Better than Swann's Way. Vintage classics, 1970.
roughly 1,200 pages into the 3,600 strong epic, I am very much enjoying it.
