https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89841.Cheri_and_The_Last_of_Cheri
For all their decadence and ostensible freedom, the characters in this book are just as repressed as Edith Wharton’s proper New Yorkers.Novels such as this usually seem to focus on female characters’ struggles with the repressive cultures they find themselves in, so Chéri and The Last of Chéri are unique: They focus on a young man, nicknamed Chéri (real name: Fred)—gorgeous, spoiled, privileged, and utterly trapped.
In fact, given that this translation was first published in 1951, I might say we’re due for an entirely new one.
But since the only person who seems to be doing new translations from French these days is Lydia Davis, maybe we should just let it be.
Colette begins the 1st novella w/ a worldly woman’s bare arms extended above a tousled morning bed, demanding her pearls, & then ends the 2nd w/ a man on a threadbare divan, in an outrageous kimono, w/ opium-smoking apparatus at hand, running his life-weary but still-beautiful eyes over long-ago photographs of his former love.
The love that shapes both fictions is that between this gorgeous youngster & another whore, though perhaps her price entitles her to be called a “courtesan.” The remarkable Léa has had a career that’s left her rich, & why should she apologize now for her appreciation of the fabulous Cherí?
Whereas the first novel focuses on Léa’s heartbreaking sense of loss— fading beauty, a lover’s abandonment, an uncertain future—the sequel shows a contented, productive Léa some six years later with a new lease on life.Chéri opens with the title character lying naked on Léa's bed playing languidly with her pearl necklace.
Their passion is coming to an end as Chéri will soon enter an arranged marriage with the rich, but insignificant 18-year-old Edmée, and Léa, though still beautiful and sporting a figure that is the envy of much-younger women, suspects the current passion will probably be her last.
They were happy at first as the young man also loved her until he met a woman (Edmee in the story) 7 years younger than him and decided to get married.
Fantastic classic love story!I cannot wait to see the movie with the beautiful Michelle Pfieffer as Lea. Cheri is the one included in the 501 MUST READ BOOKS but when I saw Michelle on the cover, I immediately wrote it in my wish list to my kris kringle "mommy".

While quoting from, or seeking to summarise, such a short book can sometimes tug all the delight from it for new readers, I still want to share one of my favourite passages, as Léa muses on how to fill the hole that she discovers - to some surprise - the loss of Chéri has left in her life:'Surely a woman like that doesn't end up in the arms of an old man?
An older woman can keep a beautiful boy as a lover; Colette is not afraid to write about men as sex objects, possessed by their women.The two novels are separated by six years.
Chéri describes the ending of the relationship between Léa, an older but still beautiful courtesan at the end of her sexual carreer, and Chéri, a young, supremely beautiful but shallow man.
They have long lived and loved together, but Chéri must get on with his young life, and must marry.
Chéri has been to the war, and is trying to fit in, live his married life, but is increasingly alienated from his wife, mother and the new, changed world.
When Cheri came out, according to the Judith Thurman biography, there were people who objected to it on the basis of the characters being "worthless" and Colette said that they should think of them in the category of realistic stories of the poor, for who could be poorer than Lea and Cheri?
It does not show where Lea and Charlotte came from originally, but likely wherever it was, was no better than what they've achieved.
I will say in reality I don't agree with Lea and Cheri's kind of relationship, but you have to have an open mind when you read these kinds of books.
As odd as the relationship was, it was romantic in a mother and son type of erotic way.I think my favorite part was Cheri obsessing over Lea's pearls.
From the start, Colette was letting us know that her title character wasn't going to be liked.
Took a war to change how he thought about things.Over all I liked this better then Gigi, but not over the Cat. I still want to read Colette's lesser known books.
Una storia d'amore dove tutto ciò che viene detto non fa che nascondere mille altre parole non dette.
Una storia che sin dalle prime pagine del libro indurrebbe a pensare si tratti di una storia di una notte e via e solo con stupore scopriamo che va avanti da sette anni.E quelle pagine che a noi sembrano l'inizio non sono che l'inizio della fine.
Niente è come appare, eppure il lettore (il lettore del 2010 o già di quei tempi?) già sa tutto, già sa dove quell'amore (difficile da ammettere) andrà a parare.
Eppure ci sembra di vederla Nounoune innamorata come ragazzina, che ama come una donna, destinata all'infelicità perchè ha scoperto e ammesso di amare...che tristezza questa storia...
You have to love Colette for the ability to mix sensuous description with poignantly tragic emotion. It's doom, but pleasantly related. The mix is disturbing in many ways, which I think is intentional and interesting. It's not something you can really feel sorry for, at the same time that you do.
Technically two novels, but each one reads as half a story, which kinda reminded me of Knut Hamsun's The Wanderer (which is also made up of two short novels written years apart: Under the Autumn Star + On Muted Strings) where the second novel doesn't really feel like a sequel but a second half that completes the first, so really you need to read both back to back.
First of all, this book isn't gunna be for everyone: the story, the style it's written in, the fact that you can say that basicly nothing happens in it.
Colette is a master of human psychology, especially the power plays in a love affair, a marriage, and the relationship between parent and child.
The Stephen Frears film uses Colette's own dialog to create dramatic tension, and with its beautiful sets, surrounds us with the beauty of pre-WWI France, at least as experienced by the grossly rich.What's missing from the film is the content of the second book, the description of Paris in the Age of "Anxiety." Her term, by the way, not the one I learned when I studied "The Great Gatsby."
These books show how the lives of certain rich French people are connected.
A former courtesan takes the young son of one of her friends as her lover.
Decisions are made about their futures, and those decisions are covered in the second book.
This is not a fuzzy feelings love story but a complicated one.
It's a fascinating read that makes me glad for the relationships I have with my soulmate, friends, family, and myself.
The biggest lesson I learned from these stories was to be sure to love yourself and find ways to make your life fulfilling.
Bottom Line firstColette's Cheri and the Last of Cheri delve into a world of people who exist on their surface qualities and measure life in terms of what wealth can buy.
His wife and circle of friends give themselves to what may be noble or greedy post war causes while he begins to react to his shallow and emotionless life.From the beginning we see Cheri (real name Fred Peloux) as more like an animal than a human.
She may have a lover, but she is still open to the possibility of marital sex in what has become a sexless marriage.The dedicated sensualist that was Cheri in book one has come to the end of his interest in things sensual.

Ah, the life of the idle rich!
And for courtesans, who depend on their beauty to maintain relationships with men and secure their place among other beautiful women, the onset of aging is terrifying.
And we're not talking about old age here, nor is it exclusively a concern of women: the protagonist, an uncommonly handsome young man and sometime gigolo, feels he is washed up at 30.Colette is a close observer of the intricacies of relationships, and the subtle power plays conveyed in seemingly innocent conversation.
This is a fascinating peek into a kind of life most of us will never experience, nor possibly want to.
And Cheri is a beautiful depiction of a powerful love affair, sex, emotions, fashion, the whole set that is worth considering.
Cheri is a playboy, and lover Lea is a famed and older courtesan.
The Last of Cheri is a sort of epilogue, regarding the effects of war and time on the playboy and those around him.
Think I might have like Cheri better had I not read the epilogue!
The power of the first end really stands for itself, and Cheri's slow demise does not quite live up to his prior passion (or the earlier storyline).
'Cheri'and'The Last of Cheri'were the 2nd and 3rd books by Colette that I read.The first book by Col
She is not very forgiving to her characters, but she knows them well and despite moments where she she is clearly making fun and having her jabs, it reads as a very clear eyed view of a very specific world.
Also this is yet another case where I saw the movie first and I have to say despite the film's remarkable faithfulness to the original source, the book is better by far.
But Cheri, the movie (which is only based on the first novel), was pleasurable in that I-love-period-pieces-and-Michelle-Pfeiffer-is-hot sort of way.
Cheri tells the story of 2 self absorbed people who form a passionate relationship.
Colette's descriptive writing style draws you into the boudoirs and coffee houses of the villages outside of Paris in the era before and after WW1.
The houses, furniture and people are portrayed so well that you are floating in the corner of the room watching the everyday rituals of the idle rich and the aging coquettes as they move through time and life.
I loved the book and am now about to order another book by Colette.
Fred Peloux, also known as Chéri, falls in love with the much older Léa.
It was not his fault that she was born many years before him; she has given him love, given him everything that she is and he received.
Nobody can ever replace Léa, not even his young wife.
He is tormented.
Léa is his first love, the only he truly and fully loves and nobody else.
Towards the ends reality hits him: Léa is getting older, and as he sees her in the morning daylight, he notices that she has aged and decides to leave.
In his torment, he shoots himself.
Kind of just sucked. Didn't like the characters didn't know why Cheri and Edmee stayed together. Cheri proved himself a cad and then was annoyed in the Last of Cheri that he and Lea were both old. Ugh.
Sensuous,sometimes beautiful, writing, even in translation. It's hard to care very much about any of the basically useless characters, caught as they are in idleness and the past. I guess it does offer a peek at a miniscule slice of Parisian society right before and after the first world war.
The movie was way more cheerful and far less satisfying. Loved these quotes by Lea, "Fair exchange is no robbery," and "You've been fluttering your wings too much...". She is one sexy character.
While I wouldn't consider the story as a whole exceedingly well written, the characters were realistic and interesting.Chéri and Léa's relationship intrigued me.
His fanatic longing and weary outlook on life is realistic, and sharply felt.Chéri is a well written, complicated mix of hero and villain.His lover Léa is mentioned constantly, though she is not physically present in very much of the story.
He has gone through his marriage wishing that he were married to Léa, the love of his life, instead.
Edmee, motionless, was cogitating on Cheri's comment, 'Never heard a word of it.' He certainly wasn't lying, and yet his off-hand assumed schoolboyishness as he squeezed the cherry stones and took aim at a sparrow by closing his left eye, spoke clearly enough to Edmee.
'What can he have been thinking about, if he never heard a word?'Before the war, she would have looked for the woman in the case.
Il romanzo affronta la relazione tra Léa de Lonval, una cortigiana quasi cinquantenne e il suo amante, Fred Peloux detto Chéri, che ha la metà dei suoi anni.
Una lettura che mi ha trasportato tra le strade di Parigi al tempo della Belle Époque, di cui sono riportati su carta i profumi, le luci, i colori.
Purtroppo nel secondo e ultimo romanzo non c'è nulla di tutto questo, essendo una monotona narrazione "a tesi", quasi Colette volesse far morire, col personaggio di Chéri, qualcuno che non poteva uccidere nella realtà.
Their relationship seems to be rather casual in nature, as Chéri is engaged to be married to Edmée.
However, after Chéri and Edmée are wed, Léa leaves town without a word to anyone and soon after, Chéri leaves home for months mourning the loss of his relationship with Léa and realizing that he is constantly comparing his wife to his former lover.
When Léa returns to town, she and Chéri realize that their relationship was based on love and they begin to make plans to run away together...but are they the same people they were before Chéri got married?For more on this book, visit: https://www.hastybooklist.com/home/ch...
Am I too American or too modern to fully enjoy Colette?
I read Cheri and The Last of Cheri for my latest trip to Paris.
She's such a part of France.It's funny that I'd always assumed that "Cheri" refers to a woman; it doesn't--the main character is a young man whose older lover nicknames him "Cheri." These are idle, wealthy people who sigh and feel deeply about amusements.
Other reviews state that reading Colette's works in French is a different experience, and I'd be inclined to agree that it must be.Read it so that you're familiar with this beloved French author.This was Book No. 64 of my 2018 #52booksin52weeks challenge (you can find more on my blog).
