https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529804.Brain
Ridiculous and fun. I wish all of Cook's novels were this whacked out and macabre. It's no "Coma", but it has the same outlandish thrills as "Mindbend" and "Shock", which is fine by me. I don't expect great literature from Dr. Cook; hell, I don't even expect great storytelling. But "Brain" has just the right amount of B-movie silliness to keep the pages turning. And, since the book was released in the early 80s, a lot of it is hilariously outdated (which, obviously, adds to the fun).
Thriller médico, con algo de terror y algo de ciencia ficción. Situaciones no demasiado creíbles. Personajes normales. Trama bien desarrollada.
The story starts with a girl Kathereine Collins going to a GYN clinic where she undergoes treatment for some Gynac ailments.
As the book goes on it tells about other young women around the same age with the exact same symptoms.
The story's main character is Dr. Martin Phillips, a doctor in neurophysiology at a New York City hospital.
Later on in the story, Phillips starts to discover the hidden experiments involving human subjects for testings purposes.
Now that he knows, he realizes he can never tell anyone of bad things would happen.
Most of the novel is experienced inside the skull of the main character, Dr. Martin Philips, but every now and then we are given a chapter or part of a chapter through someone else's eyes.
What I find problematic is the way we are often taken to another person's headspace for a couple of sentences, maybe a paragraph, before jumping back to Philips or whoever else is the main focus right then.
(view spoiler)[As an example, toward the end of the book there is a scene in which Philips is in the apartment of someone involved, and Cook finds it necessary to tell us that the other person picks up a knife and slides it into his sleeve.
3,5/5Tiene una muy intrigante trama que nos mantiene al vilo durante todo el libro. A pesar de eso, muchas de los problemas que le surgen al protagonista son resultas de maneras demasiado irreales. La temática que da nombre al libro se evidencia a lo largo de toda la novela y nos lleva a hacernos preguntas sobre ética y la tarea que los médicos realizan en los hospitales.
Brain was entertaining, intelligent and completely ridiculous in equal measures. I admit I enjoyed it, despite never buying the premise for a single moment. Cook has a talent and it's for telling a good yarn that keeps the pace going. It's not so much that he's believable or a good writer (although I've read worse working in the thriller genre). Also, I think I understand TeeVee shows like House a little better having read this.
A shocking medical thriller!
Need to be reviewed.
This novel is Dr. Cook's 4th published novel (Year of the Intern, Coma & Sphinx) and his 2nd medical thriller.
It came out 4 years after Coma.
It is a mixture of Quincy, ME; Medical Center; Emergency!
& Trapper John, MD with a little St. Elsewhere and ER thrown in.The interesting medical & victimology aspects are: all female, have abnormal pap smears, develop a form of epilepsy & have an attack post OB/GYN exam.
Warning: Chapter 6 is particularly graphic for people with weak stomachs.Ultimately this novel along with his previous work Coma shows the danger of lax medical research ethics and the inherent dangers of socialized medicine.
L'année 2018 s'annonce bien !
Le livre "vertiges" de Robin Cook m'a tenu vraiment à cœur et les événements atroces que le chercheur Martin Phillips a vécus m'ont concerné particulièrement, puisque j'ai étudié les sciences expérimentales et je vise une carrière de chercheur en biologie.
Ce livre témoigne la transformation du progrès scientifique en une arme redoutable qui menace la vie humaine, dévoilant le visage terrifiant que la recherche scientifique (incontrôlée par les morales) pourrait avoir: expérimentation humaine, assassinats, maltraitance des animaux, exploitation des cadavres et création des "missiles intelligents".Malgré l'existence d'une multitude de procédures pour protéger les droits de l'Homme et les données personnelles, et malgré la création des comités d'éthique pour surveiller la recherche scientifique , le cauchemar de l'expérimentation humaine continue à rôder, pouvant même être encouragé par les gouvernements afin d'obtenir plus de pouvoir.
Неочаквано за мен много слаб роман на Робин Кук. Може би не е имал вдъхновение. Може би е бил на слаби наркотици. Може би се е олял в стремежите си да създаде елегия против аморалните способи във фармацевтиката и медицината, и вечното си оплюване на системата за здравеопазване в САЩ (а какво ли би казал за нашата?). Не знам. Романът е скучен, муден, липсва му заряд и всичко което се случва, се случва в около двадесет страници към края на книгата - останалото са нравоучителни философии и необяснимо детински емоционални сривове на героите.
A novel that is well paced , talks about the incredible powers the brain harnesses. A peek into the futuristic synergy of the biological brain and the computers. An impending biologically cybernetic future. Does definitely involve a lot of Medical terms and literature. Definitely requires a medical dictionary or Google at disposal. The end is quite predictable. A satisfactory read.
It may have been outrageous as some people have suggested but the prologue in the end bothered me. It certainly makes one think and wonder about human experimentation and exploitation. Truly was a good read with the afterthoughts compelling.
Stilted narrative, sterotypical characters . . . Stick with medicine, Dr. Cook.
I’m not suggesting that by having a few divorced protagonists, an author is causing an increase in a modern trend that could be a root cause for increased poverty and teen problems.
On the one hand, we have to protect children, but we don’t want parents scared to take them for treatment, either.When Phillips in Brain was following the suspect, I thought the description of night people looking “bizarre and grotesque” was hillarious.
If Phillips was surprised what someone in a hospital told him because he was a doctor, he should hear what people tell their home support workers.
On a parallel path, Martin Philips, the protagonist who is the Assistant director of Neuroradiology is developing an X-Ray reader that eliminates the need of humans to read them.
As a result, the climax is so rushed that is becomes a joke.Also, throughout the length of the book, the central character Martin Philips is referred by his first name in half the instances, and by his last name at other times.
I say this because there were times in which the doctor was referred to as Martin in one sentence and Philips in the other other...
Some college co-eds are going into the GYN clinic and experiencing unexplainable neurological deficits shortly thereafter. Some have died. The Chief of Neurology, Dr Michael Phillips, is intrigued by certain strange spots on the Xrays. Being a keen researcher, he wants to explore this anomaly. Unbeknownst to him, there is a conspiracy to keep certain things secret and he finds his life in danger.  I like the build-up of various background layers. Near the end, it was a guessing game as to who was involved in the bad deeds.
Genial.... he de decir que para mi es un 4.5, al final le hizo falta un poco mas... pero aun así, me pareció un excelente libro, corto y fácil de leer.La problemática ética en el ambiente medico científico que enmascara el libro es interesante si se investiga realmente toda la evolución que ha tenido la ciencia medica a costa de varios experimentos en los cuales han sido sacrificados no solo animales si no seres humanos.
I had saved this book from my days of high school reading and finally returned to it. It was still decent almost 20 years later. The characters were engaging and overall likeable. I was foreshadowing in my brain what was going to happen through the book and I was only a little off. The relationship between the male and female in this book was a bit of a stretch but it was cute. I look forward to reading more from Robin Cook.
I liked this book in spite of myself.It started rough, and I was really worried about where it was all going with the whole gynecological element, given the b-movie flavour of this story, but yeah; I kept coming back to it, despite everything. It's definitely a product of its time, occasionally laughably so, and the David Cronenberg-level of body horror was . . . gothic in its total gross-outedness, but somehow it was a compelling read, especially with the endnotes.
Příběh je velmi zajímavý, ale místy je obtížné se knihou prokousat. Autor používá hodně odborných spojení, což chápu, že ke knížce z nemocničního prostředí patří. Závěr mě dostal do kolen a čekala jsem opravdu všechno, kromě toho, jak kniha doopravdy skončila. Mozek rozhodně nebyl poslední knížkou, kterou se chystám od Cooka přečíst.
Hair-raising medical intrigueHow to fit the puzzle pieces together? Another of Robin's excellent "medical thrillers" ... until close to the end . Then it got scary. And scarier. Don't stop reading at the end. The epilogue will ruin your night's sleep. I'm off to start a bit of "horse fluff" so I can sleep in a little while.Thanks, Robin, for giving me the willies.
Enjoyable read about a diabolical medical scheme! I didn't expect the "bad guy" to be who it ended up being in the book! Not my favorite by Robin Cook and so I only gave it three stars but still a decent read.
A horrific reality...
Dated and sexist, but a good story.
Needed an escapist book and have liked Robin Cook in the past. This wasn't the worst book but a bit disappointing....but I did want to keep going to see how it ended.
It's good but it's too open.. no conclusion no many side stories
Not the best Cook-but still enjoyable. Some of the conspiracy points were a little unbelievable
Not my favourite Robin Cook. Still a decent read.
I still have no idea what the plot was about.. If someone has read this book, please enlighten me.
