https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139855.Knowing_God
Ought we not to concern ourselves more about the Holy Spirit than we do?"); his wise, clear-sighted explanation of how we as Christians should think about the difficult things that happen to us ("Every single thing that happens to us expresses God's love to us, and comes to us for the furthering of God's purpose for us.
If, like me, you were raised going to a Christian church, reading the Bible, and participating in Bible studies, you might think you know all there is to know about God. But the goal of the Christian shouldn't be merely to know about God. We must realize, first, how little we know God and secondly, why it's important to do so.
The Westminster Catechism tells us, "The scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God, and what duty God requires of man."With this in mind, Packer discusses why it is important to know who God is, what He is like, and God's relationship with and actions towards man.
The 'balconeers' and travelers may think about the same concept, but there are two different ways of doing so and Packer explains that he writes this book for the travelers rather than for those looking on academically into the subject of God. In that sense to critique this book as a 'guide book' of theology is in my view apt and it's a useful book, though as with any work of theology you must always test the use of scripture and the spiritual insight provided.The most powerful part of this book is the way that Packer so clearly sets out to explain two concepts that are crucial to the Christian faith.

It shaped my heart and my mind in ways that I'm certain saved me from making even more mistakes than I did in my exuberant, youthful ignorance.We do ourselves a tremendous disservice, and our souls incalculable damage, if we casually dismiss the study of God. Or, as Packer put it in chapter one:"Disregard the study of God, and you sentence yourself to stumble and blunder through life blindfolded, as it were, with no sense of direction and no understanding of what surrounds you.
2018: When a Theology book touches the mind and the heart, it is worth reading.
2012: A Theology book that touches deep within your heart, brings you to your knees and makes you cry is worth reading/ listening at least once a year, every year.I had read this book before but this time (August 2012), I am listening to this audio version which I am loving.
average so it makes it easy to listen to one chapter a day.
Though it was originally said of Jonathan Edwards, I feel that this can also be said of Packer in this book: his doctrine was all application, and his application was all doctrine. Therefore “Knowing God” is full of heart-searching application of amazing gospel truths and attributes of God. I especially appreciated and benefitted from his chapters on adoption and God’s guidance in the life of a believer.

An excellent work that I really should have read much sooner.
Packer, in the pointed style of many solidly theological British authors before him, carries the reader through the nature of the Triune God; the attributes or perfections of God; and the work of God through justification, sanctification and glorification.
I particularly appreciated his emphasis (certainly not excessive or unbalanced) on the work of the Holy Spirit, frequently overlooked, and on the gift of adoption and its implications.
He also deals appropriately and frankly with the problem of assurance throughout.
Knowing God is a modern Christian classic about the basics of Christian theology, yet it is written at a level that the public can understand.
It is pastoral in tone, exhorting the believer to know God truly as He is, not as humans often misconceive.
The book is especially good for someone who has never studied theology, but even the person who has will gain something.Perhaps the most edifying portion of the book comes at the beginning, when Packer stresses the dangers of studying theology for its own sake.
Do check your motives before you study theology.
This book should be a textbook. The author is truly a genius. One of the great benefits of reading this book is that the author goes into deep analysis in many areas.
For the Christmas spirit is the spirit of those who, like their Master, live their whole lives on the principle of making themselves poor-spending and being spent-to enrich their fellowmen, giving time, trouble, care and concern to do good to others-and not just their own friends - in whatever way there seems need."And that in the context of a book that presents the traditional and time-honored view of God. The best thing about Packer, I think, is his prose, which is just surprising and very ...
Helping the modern world understand God30 June 2013 This is sort of one of those books that if you have been a Christian for a while you have probably stumbled across or even read. Well, I'm actually not quite so sure about that now because the book was published over 35 years ago and as is typical for our modern Western culture, the older it is the less relevant it becomes. Personally, I really don't think that this book is necessarily all that irrelevant because the teachings that it proposes
Personally, I really don't think that this book is necessarily all that irrelevant because the teachings that it proposes are pretty much as old as Christianity itself, though what Packer was trying to do was to bring the spiritual aspect of our relationship with God back into the modern world in which we live.
Okay, there have been numerous books written about the modern nature of idolatry, and he does explore it here, but one of the things that I do question is his reaction against religious art.
Muito bom! Os capítulos sobre a adoção dos filhos de Deus e a suficiência de Deus (19 e 22) são especiais.
Immensely helpful. It can be a bit meaty and some sentences have to be read 2-3 times to make sense but worth it. Thankful for Packer's brain in being able to comprehend and explain complex theology but mostly thankful for his clear love of the Lord.
Knowing God by J.I. Packer is one of THE best books on being a Christian that I have ever read.
I took months to read through it in little bits and got so much out of it that I scarcely know where to begin.The book turns on the central thesis that in order to pursue the Christian life rightly, the Christian’s life focus must be to KNOW God by searching the scriptures to understand His character and ways and then allowing that knowledge to inform your mind, will, feelings, commitments and identification.
I have read Knowing God before and found it no less amazing this time through. I love this book, and how wonderful to come to it as an older Christian and understand so much more of what Packer discusses, especially regarding inward trials and God's love for us in the midst of afflictions. This is solid stuff, and Packer writes with so much heart. A classic. Essential Christian reading. A must-read. Call it what you will; it should be part of every Christian's library.
Simply outstanding. One of the few modern must-reads. Also read in 2013.
There's a reason this book consistently shows up on "Books Every Christian Should Read" lists. I will be reading this one again.
I know nothing which can so comfort the soul; so calm the swelling billows of sorrow and grief; so speak peace to the winds of trial, as a devout musing upon the subject of the Godhead.”At the beginning of Knowing God, Packer borrows these words that were spoken by C.H. Spurgeon more than a century ago.
Throughout the book, he unpacks the nature and character of God in a way that will allow those who read it to more fully experience this intimacy with God that Spurgeon speaks of.
The rest of the book is dedicated to getting to know God in the most Scripture-saturated and gospel-centered way.
Reading this book is like sitting down with a loving and honest pastor and listening to them talk straight to your questions and concerns about the Christian life.
Just as in Scripture, the writer is focusing instead on God and who He is, His characteristics and power, His justice and wrath, His far-surpassing of all human-created gods and goddesses.
He shares lots of Scripture along the way, as well as the verses of sound hymns.
Once you finish the book, you are ready to go read Romans again and really pay attention this time.
I believe that this book is an essential read for followers of Christ. I have learned so much. This is a book that you read slowly, one chapter per reading session. It is filled with scripture and hymns all along the way which I just loved. I have written and underlined sections all over the book. I believe that this will become a dear book friend as the years go by. I will come back every few years and reread. You will glean new information each time I promise!
In so doing, this book leads the reader to honor God rightly, thereby deepening his fellowship with the Lord.In a chapter entitled “The Majesty of God,” Dr. Packer asks, “How may we form a right idea of God’s greatness?” His answer is that the Bible shows us the two steps we must take:"The first is to remove from our thoughts of God limits that would make him small.
I think I would have liked the book a lot better if it were about half its length.
And then there were a lot of long expositions on topics like Sin, God's Wrath, His severity, propitiation, representative substitution, etc etc.
The book reads like a text book most of the time, and some of these sections were just long and I had to trudge through.
But, that's not what it was, it was an in-depth text on Knowing God, his character and all his attributes, which in the end should make us appreciate and understand his Grace all the more.
We get confused with what is "good" sometimes I think.
When I started reading this book I expected to exercise my mind.
By studying the attributes of God it becomes impossible to not be totally and completely amazed by Him. J.I. Packer is a very intelligent man who also has such a heart for God. He continually reminds the reader to not just know ABOUT God, but to also know Him in a way where we are in a personal relationship with Him. One of the things that I liked the best about this book was the amount of scripture that Packer used to support his claims.
J.I. Packer helped me understand that the greatest thing in life is knowing God. Knowing God became my pursuit in life after reading this book many years ago.
I have many favorite chapters and quotes and I read sections of this book again and again.
I especially like the edition with the study guide.
This book is one to read a little at a time - sometimes only a paragraph at a time.
This is his classic - I have three editions of it in my library, but the first is my favorite, because it's where I first learned so many profound truths about God.
No surprise whatsoever that this is considered one of the top 50 books that have shaped evangelicalism.
Packer writes powerfully, movingly and lucidly.
The subject matter of this book is the most important topic ever to be considered: God. I believe, in my case, that Packer has succeeded in what he intended: to give a deeper, fuller, and more biblical understanding of God that doesn't just expand one's knowledge, but drives one to worship and prayer.
This has been the case for me.
I will carry what I've learned from this book with me for a long time!
I Love this book. Packer is deep, his insight and theology is equally deep but also inspires. His work instills and reinforces in me as a reader the awesome Power and majesty of God but also the love and compassion of our God and Father. I try and read and reread this book every year, it's that good!
Great book. Motivates you to further study and causes you to see yourself as the finite recipient of infinite grace from an infinite God. Packer stumbles a bit in some places with regard to epistemology and impassibility, but these bits are overshadowed by the large amounts of wonderful material which affirms the biblical view of these and many other subjects. Recommended!
I didn't learn much (I was raised a Christian), but it was good to be reminded of these truths.Topics include God's self-existence, infinity, eternity, unchangeableness, almightiness, omniscience, omnipresence, holiness, love, mercy, truthfulness, faithfulness, goodness, patience, justice, wrath, satisfaction, and joy.People like to form their own ideas about God, but we must use the Bible as our source of knowledge, to come to accurately understand and live for Him (in as much as our finite minds can do in this life).The audiobook frequently quotes the Bible without giving the references, which I missed.
