https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23209927-at-the-water-s-edge
First of all, I understand all the less than stellar reviews as the plot really is ridiculous......taking a trip across the Atlantic to Scotland in search of the Loch Ness monster, during wartime no less, just so a young spoiled son of a rich man can get back into his father's good graces, salvage his "full" allowance and move back into the family mansion?
2.5 stars rounded up.
The place and history are well depicted here but I found it difficult to connect with Maddie , the main character until I was at least halfway through the book .
When the connection between the opening story and the present story became apparent, I became more interested but it was a bit too predictable.
Maybe because I had just finished reading a deeply moving and heartbreaking book that this was just a bit too thin for me .
I was expecting this to be as good as Water for Elephants which I loved and rated 5 stars , but it just wasn't.
Water for Elephants, set in Scotland, with the Loch Ness Monster instead of Rosie the Elephant. WARNING: - THERE BE SPOILERS AHEADI will just go ahead and tell you right now, that this book opens with three of the most unlikeable characters you can possibly imagine. You might even ask yourself why you would want to continue reading several hundred pages about the vapid lives of a bunch of over privileged American brats. In response I say, just go with it. The story gets better.Maddie, her husba
The story gets better.Maddie, her husband Ellis, and their best friend Hank, publicly disgrace themselves at a New Years Eve party in the upper crust of Philadelphia society and embarrass their family to the point of being cut off financially.
Only Angus rescues her, and when the police go to arrest Ellis for attempted murder, he's found drowned at the edge of Loch Ness in less than two inches of water.
Ellis by the "Loch Ness Monster".Jacob/Angus: Both men lose their entire families.
At Water's Edge is essentially Water for Elephants, set in Scotland, with the Loch Ness Monster instead of Rosie the Elephant.
At the start, she, her husband Ellis, and their best friend, Hank, are spoiled, entitled, upperclass twenty something's who show little respect.
In Scotland, they find spare rooms at an inn run by the gruff and mysterious Angus who has lost more than can be imagined in the war and the Loch.
At first, Ellis, Hank, and Maddie look down on the "help" including Angus, barmaid, Meg, and the housekeeper, Anna.
This is where the story really started to draw me in.As Maddie learns her husband Ellis' dark secrets, the danger and suspense grows.
And At the Water's Edge is not quite that - it didn't excite me or lift my heart the way Water did, but I still liked it in its own right.First of all, I loved the whole idea of the book - Maddie, her husband Ellis, and their very close friend Hank (a very cozy threesome) live a luxurious, lazy party life - World War II is raging on outside, but they're stuck in their own bubble, exempt from the battle due to one of the men being colorblind and other being "flat-footed" (I hear about this in relation to war all the time - is this a real thing?!) Everyone around them harshly judges their situation and the men's lack of bravery and nobility, and so they come up with the grand plan of traveling to Scotland to find the Loch Ness Monster (something Ellis' father has tried and failed/faked to do) to restore their honor.
Does this sound appealing to you?'The Great Gatsby' meets 'Outlander'?It's not precisely what this book is - it's set during WWII, not the 1920's, and the Romance With A 'Highlander' is in the 'present' day, no time travel involved...
but if the concept sounds good, you'll probably like this book.
(hide spoiler)].But the biggest weakness of the book was that I wasn't really feeling the romance.
If you're in the mood for a bit of romance with a hint of the supernatural, you could do far, far worse than 'At the Water's Edge.'Many thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to read.
Pitch perfect atmosphere, characters who grow and develop, who anger and impress and please, a story line that ebbs and flows and builds in intensity until you are utterly submerged in the story - turning pages faster than you want to because you want to do the writing justice but you also have to find out what happened. At the Water's Edge is the the kind of novel that restores one's faith in humanity -- and in great writing. It was an honor to read it.
Sara Gruen is like Sarah Waters Lite.
Or Sarah Waters washed out, perhaps.
The history in Gruen's historical fiction felt incidental.
I didn't mind the "lite" history, but it was jarring when she'd suddenly insert a 2 paragraph update on the war.
And that's what it felt like- a calculated insert.
"Oops, haven't reset the scene in a while, let's make mention of those Allied troops one more time."Speaking of jarring, I felt like the book took a nosedive in the second half.
It's not a bad book, but there are much better ones out there, including one of Gruen's own.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found it very hard to put down.
The three rich, spoilt Americans were suitably awful and the Scottish setting was well drawn.
The whole thing was set to a background of World War Two and we accessed the details of this as the main character did by reading the local newspaper, always a few days late and not always completely accurate.
I enjoyed watching Maddie develop from spoilt brat into someone you would want to have as a friend and I especially liked the rather vengeful ending.
All in all a nicely written and very enjoyable book.
They each seem go through personality and behavior changes --especially *Ellis and Maddie* (the married couple).
*Ellis* sees her as a girl always up for an adventure.
*Hank* is 'good-old-Hank' (the guy who doesn't want to commit to marriage).
Life seems pretty easy going for 'Hank' --as its his personality.
The characters become irritating and annoying as adventures continue in Scotland during the end of WW11, --and I may never want to eat a bowl of porridge again, but at least I could connect with their human struggles...(judge them as I may) I had a harder time connecting with hunting for Loch Ness monster.
The pathos practically drips off the pages with no humor and very little action to provide release.And it's really a shame, because Gruen has a good story and has some good characters I really wanted to care about.
But, my God, ease up a little.The same is true for the historical fiction aspect.
What she did so remarkably in Water for Elephants in opening up a hidden world, she fails at here.
It felt more like she was trying to impress me with facts and figures from WWII, instead of opening up the Scottish experience.
I kind of envisaged something a bit like the film 'The Water Horse'.For the first hundred pages or so I cursed my curiosity for getting the better of me, as the author presented me with three of the most selfish, self-absorbed, irresponsible twats I'd ever had the mispleasure of reading about.
Those desiring a serious historical or literary fiction will likely be disappointed.
I think you can always tell an excellent historical fiction by the way they weave you into an era without heavy information dumps.
This is not excellent historical fiction, and the author is heavy handed with her information dumps.
This book could have been more powerful if it were given some sort of subplot about liberation or a woman who is able to overcome the standards of society, but we're never really given that.That being said, I did enjoy the romantic tidbits in this and I thought that Maddie was a likeable main character, despite her constant bending to the will of her husband.
The thing that saved this book was the female friendships it presented and how there was a clear antagonism of the men in her life who tried to overpower her.TLDR; it's an enjoyable story, it just felt like a watered down down version of what I think it could have been.
And I thought the 'monster' theme represented throughout in terms of war, mental illness, alcoholism, greed, jealousy enriched the story immensely.Then too, there were many things I didn't like: contrived plot points, excessive use of expletives, unexplainable and/or unrealistic actions, magical/mystical spiritualism scenes seemed abruptly inserted and out of sync with the overall tone of the story, serendipitous ending....
Categorically:Literary elements and nuances: 4 StarsCharacterization: 3 StarsFluidity and story-thread: 3 StarsMicro story elements: 2 StarsSetting/atmosphere: 4 StarsPersonal preference in terms of language and sexual content: 1 StarOverall:THREE *** Literary Nuance Strong, Micro Element Weak *** STARS
Disappointing. Reads like the author took her half finished WWII era novel and threw it in a blender with a Highland romance she was thinking about. Mixed that up sprinkled it with some humor. Then finished off with some nice cliches throughout.
I especially enjoyed the Hollywood-esque love triangle of the early sections – Hank and Ellis buzzing around Maddie made me think of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire fighting over the female lead in Holiday Inn. Gruen invites such cinematic comparisons with this line: “If Hank was Clark Gable, then Ellis was a towheaded, clean-shaved Errol Flynn.”However, I would have liked more of the actual search for the Loch Ness monster and less of the melodrama around illnesses, domestic violence, family inheritance, death, divorce, etc., etc.
I thoroughly enjoyed Like Water For Elephants, by Sara Gruen, and was thrilled to be given the opportunity to read this authors latest novel, At The Water's Edge.Set during WWII, Maddie, her husband Ellis and his best friend Hank leave their pampered high society lives in Philadelphia after falling out of grace with family.
Maddie accepts the primitive conditions, but Hank and Ellis are resistant.
I loved the relationship that grew between Maddie, Meg, Anna and especially Angus.
Wonderful storytelling set in a historical timeframe in an unusual setting with a moving love story.Highly Recommended!
But I was engaged by the dangerous adventure itself and their aim to prove some things to the world, and not just that the monster existed.
The trip will change things more than anyone could imagine.As Ellis and Hank begin spending every waking moment either looking for the monster or getting drunk, Maddie becomes more and more bored and disgusted with them both, and more involved with the staff at the inn where they are staying.
You don't help the "help." Maddie also begins to question Ellis' every move and motive, including his possibly feigned color blindness.
The pounding headache that Maddie Hyde was suffering after the New Year’s Eve party the night before had her cringing – she tried desperately to remember the events of the latter part of the evening and when she did she realized with horror that she and her husband Ellis had made dreadful fools of themselves.
They were dumbfounded – but Ellis and Hank quickly decided the best thing to do was head to Scotland to search for the Loch Ness monster; surely this would see favour and restore finances with the Colonel?
I love this book! 5 stars! Beautifully written and left me wanting more. I love stories of war and love and Gruen drew me right into this one as she did with Water for Elephants. Would love to see a sequel to this to see where the characters went from the end.
A vapid protagonist makes for a vapid read. Anecdotal history scattered haphazardly throughout (a stretch to use the tragedies of WWII to bolster a tepid story) successfully clarified only how uninterested I was in the main plot: the Loch Ness Monster search by a true-life monster of a husband? And even then, his monstrosity was less convincing than that of the Nessie herself.Sad to give such a lackluster review, particularly when Water for Elephants has such magic. Subsequent work will always need so much more than the first best to stay in high regard.
Jaako dobro! (Y) Autorica je osmislila odličnu priču u koju je ukomponirala i Drugi svjetski rat, čudovište iz Loch Nessa, psihološki portret likova, neočekivane obrate..! Ma super! Uskoro više..
I will not listen to another book narrated by the same person.
I didn’t feel any connection or really even particularly like Mattie, Angus, Hank, Meg, and whoever else I’m forgetting (probably because they are very forgettable).
The character of Ellis just felt confused, like the author wasn’t sure where she was going with him.
I felt that most if not all characters were boring, rather one dimensional, and not memorable whatsoever.
Story wise, I realized halfway through that I didn’t particularly care what happened because it was a terribly boring book.
I hope her next book has more depth to the story as a whole.
Maddie joins her husband, Ellis, and their friend, Hank, to search out the Loch Ness monster during the end of WWII.
It felt natural for some of war time elements to be included, but other facts were almost like reading from a newspaper.
Other reviewers have said that they think the ending is too tidy, but I felt like it was nice to read a book with a proper ending and not having anything left up to interpretation for a change.Thank you to Random House and NetGalley for providing me with a copy of an ebook.I included 2 photos of the village they were staying in.
Ellis finds himself falling from his father's grace and decides to "save the day" by going to Scotland to capture the Loch Ness Monster on film- a feat his father attempted but never succeeded at.
Also, the book takes place towards the end of WWII, so you've got THAT going on...A little far fetched, but I let myself be swept away with the unreality of the storyline and completely fell in love with Maddie.
(view spoiler)[ Completely fell in love with all the characters in Scotland- Anna, Meg, and Angus.
For me, they made the book- and the fact that Maddie and Angus got together in the end???
This would make a beautiful movie--just think of Scottish lairds, old Philadelphia upper-crust parties, war shots, hints of ghosts and Nessie.
I'd watch that movie.
The reason why the main characters (Maddie-Ellis, husband-wife and friend Hank, all snobbish rich brats) to go Scotland during the last six months of WWII for Nessie-watching isn't believable to me.
(His character reminded me of the husband in Water for Elephants.) I kept confusing the two Scottish girls and older women.
The term "righteous theft" was new to me and Gruen does a good job of outlining Scottish history so you know enough.
40% in and I'm throwing in the towel. I don't care what happens, not vested in characters or book. May try again, may not. Time to move on.
I should have quit this book a few chapters in and used my reading time on a better book.
Goodreads has definitely changed my thoughts on quitting books.
Things are said, attitudes change and our once clueless girl finally sees things as a grown ass woman should.This book was awful.
I would best describe this read as a muddled mess of a story buried under a layer of cliché characters such as vaudeville villains, a mean girl with a heart of gold, a let me show you the ropes new friend, a dark and mysterious heartthrob and a damsel in distress.
Ellis is on a mission to find and photo the Loch Ness monster, a mission his father had failed to accomplish in the past.This is a beautifully written book.
I found it difficult to relate to some of the characters, especially Ellis and Hank who are very self centered and frivolous.
I found the stories about the locals, especially Angus to be very compelling.I read Water for Elephants earlier this year, and missed the interaction with animals.
Though I imagine the Loch Ness monster is the substitute with a more spiritual relationship with the characters.
Like in that novel, "At the Water's Edge" exemplifies Gruen's conscientious research.
She covers World War II overseas, focusing on a search for the Loch Ness Monster, Nessie for short- so that readers can still enjoy her wonderful imagination and whimsical narratives.
The other theme of focus is Maddie's relationship with her husband Ellis and her in-laws.
On these last day of 19__, at a New Year Eve's Party, Maddie, Ellis, and his best friend (more line a brother) Henry get ridiculously drunk and make a scene.
The significance of the search for Nessie is that Ellis's father notoriously "found" it- that is, until his pictures were found to be fraudulent.
