https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4701.A_Spot_of_Bother
He writes in such a way that you can tell he wants the reader to think it's a stunning revelation that this character is having, when it's just another dull moment in a rather dull story.
They're sad, selfish little people, yet Haddon seems to think they are endearing.Finally, he ends the book fairly abruptly and with a neat little bow on top that doesn't suit it.
I've heard people who are familiar with autism claim that Haddon's sketch of the child in 'A Curious Incident of the Dog in the NightTime' was actually woefully inaccurate and quite offensive, and seeing the way he handles his characters' problems in this story, I'm much more inclined to believe that.
Let me count the ways:1) Every word in this novel is written in conversational, lazy prose.
The kind of verbal junk we are all guilty of in verbal conversation, but letting it form the bulk of your novel is unforgivable.
These people, is seems, are the most banal people you have ever met.5) 500 FUCKING PAGES?Picture a wet Sunday afternoon, and you are spending it at a slightly run-down shopping centre in the outskirts of town.
haddon has a thing with little kids (of all ages).another thing that haddon does really really well is show how people like george and christopher, i.e. people who either are different or become different at some point in their lives for some very painful reason, manage to break down barriers and distances in others that would otherwise be as immutable and untouchable as the rotation of the planets.
except there is hell to pay, for everyone, and this is the really heartbreaking part, the amount of pain haddon packs in his books.
People going into Mark Haddon's latest novel, A Spot of Bother expecting anything like his smash-hit debut, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time are going to be sorely disappointed.
At the heart of both A Spot of Bother and The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, that is what the story focuses on.
With his latest work, he just does so in a more traditional but much more all-encompassing way.In just two novels, Mark Haddon has proven his impressive range, all the while remaining focused on what he ultimately wants to achieve in his writing.
(gave copies away).For some reason --I like this 'MORE' than a few of my friends --but I was DYING LAUGHING ...(forgive me if I sound nasty) ....during the bedroom scenes....and then there was the daughter's wedding...
(I just LOVED this book --and could read it again)...I adore the authors sense of humor.I thought it was hilarious --AND touching!
I know everyone remembers "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night"Every so often somebody asks me....'what is a good-charming-light -(but not slapstick) book to read?
THIS would be THAT book.....(especially for old married farts with daughters like myself)
Modest past review discovered to have been lost in an import from Shelfari:The survival of a modest man shown charmingly with much deadpan humor. George Hall thinks he has cancer, which shapes how he reacts to more mundane crises, such as an unfaithful wife, a son struggling with gayness, and a daughter about to marry poorly. He seems to gain a sense of sanity from learning first hand how crazy everyone else is. Our lovable hero just keeps having bad luck, but always rises to the surface. The internal dialog is part Walter Mitty, part Yossarian.
A Spot of Bother is an alternating-POV story about going quietly mad and loudly sane, and love under all our layers of repression and confusion: There’s newly-retired dad George, politely failing to bury his increasing obsessive thoughts of mortality under a zest for home renovations.
And so when all the dust settled, I found myself left with some heartwarming end scenes and some open end scenes… but most of all, the overall sense of empathy for the ways people try to make sense out of the chaos.(Reread April 2012: Nothing to add of insight, except to note poor Mark Haddon, doomed to forever have his work as "not as good as his first novel Curious Incident.
Finally, son Jamie is facing a dilemma – he wants to bring his partner Tony to the wedding, but he fears his family are not ready for that.There is a thread of black humour running through the book but I did feel it was more moving and emotional than funny as George’s depression first crept up and then engulfed him.
The whole family, in fact, felt frighteningly real to me, and I found myself nodding my head so many times throughout the book at things they said.They are all in crisis in one way or another, and as each short and sharp chapter is told through alternate viewpoints, I really got a good understanding about what was going through everyone’s thoughts.
It is the sort of book only established authors can release, but it does satisfy as a “warm-hearted page-turner” (does anyone else feel sick?)George is the centre of the story, a retired bourgeois gent who becomes a hypochondriac, a depressive and—later on, when he watches his wife being ploughed by another man—a self-harming borderline psychotic.
His descent into madness while his selfish little brood run around arguing and breaking up and making up forms the moral centre of the book, though Haddon works hard to make the selfish people loveable in the end, and almost succeeds.
I suppose readers' attention spans are becoming shorter, but should fiction really cater to that fact?
There is definitely a craft to revealing multiple characters' motivations without resorting to the division of a book into 144 chapters written from different perspectives.
It made me feel like a choose-your-own-adventure reader when I flipped through dozens of pages to continue on with one character's story for more than just four paragraphs at a time.
...Or maybe we are to believe that the only time this family really existed together was on vacation, which is quite possible.Just the right amount of convincing character arcs made this book worthy of an overused jacket-blurb adjective: heartwarming.
Hilarious!!!! What a wonderful story, that kept me laughing the whole time. Haddon does a wonderful job giving his characters life. It made me wonder what I'll be like when I retire will I be as crazy and eccentric as the main character.
I really can't generate strong feelings one way or another on its behalf.
I kept feeling that if it was either good or bad, I would have relished finishing it so that I could relish talking about it.But it wasn't.
It was, I guess, the most mediocre book I've ever read.
But then the tone of the book is largely humourous and brisk.
Every event in the novel feels contrived and every dialogue scripted.
Unfortunately, mine was a not-so-endearing cover.
I think I probably would have enjoyed the book more had I been properly primed for it by the cover.
First the quibbles: Haddon's a young guy.
Mark, I've got to tell you: people over fifty don't think the world belongs to the young.
It's young people who think that about their elders.
Also, Haddon writes here about people with no real problems, which is to say, the characters are well-off, not in physical want or peril, and advantaged in every way.
At least Haddon has them whine interestingly and about problems that we absolutely relate to.
Haddon explores deep and painful areas in a way that reads fast and easily, with just the right kind of humor in just the right places.
Having read  Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, I expected my sophomore foray into Haddon's style of novel-writing to be a bit of a departure.
It's written in a matter-of-fact style that hearkens back to that of Curious but fails to deliver a real story.
Again, this is another symptom of my mind wandering from lack of interest but I am fond of writers who can deliver their craft without a notepad full of brilliant adjective phrases right next to the computer.In any case, I would still recommend taking a look at it if you read Curious and plan to keep tabs on Haddon's evolution from writing children's books.
It's official, Mark Haddon and I just don't mesh. He's not for me! But to be fair, I won't rate this because it is really just me. Others seem to be drawn to his writing, but I just am not a fan.
Putrinya Katie akan melangsungkan pernikahan kedua dengan lelaki yang menurut George dan Jean, istrinya, tidak selevel dengan Katie.
George pun mulai bertanya-tanya, apakah selama ini dia telah menyia-nyiakan waktunya, dengan tidak melakukan hal-hal yang disukainya, demi mengejar hidup yang aman.
Bagi pembaca yang menunggu-nunggu aksi seru mungkin bisa mati bosan di tengah jalan :D Tapi untungnya Haddon masih menyisipkan lelucon-lelucon sarkastik di antara cerita, jadi cukup menghibur.Yang jelas novel ini kembali membuat saya berpikir, apakah saya sebaiknya tetap hidup lurus-lurus saja seperti selama ini, atau mulai nekat mengejar semua yang ingin saya lakukan tapi tidak pernah berani saya lakukan?
Dear Budding Indie Film-maker,I know how tempted you are to turn this quirky little book into a quirky little movie.
You know just how the camera will close in on the faces of the actors as they make realizations that will change their life.And you're really looking forward to filming some of the genuinely sweet and funny scenes, knowing the audience will roar with laughter while wiping tears from their eyes.Don't do it.
I've seen that movie so many times, and the close ups are pointless, the wonderful actors wasted.The charm of this book is knowing what the characters are thinking, and what they've been through.
Disappointing after beautifully sad and engaging "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night Time".
Could not relate to the characters.
Or maybe just not my kind of book.
Expectations too high because I loved the "Curious Incident"?A book for lazy summer days, but not for the rest of the year when work, family and social obligations turn every hour in the reading chair into rare golden time.
On the other hand, there are so many books out there that I CRAVE to read, I wonder why I have the compulsion to finish books I do not fully engage in?
This book is an excellent read, the witty one liners and dry humour interwoven makes for a very funny read at times. What's clever is that it's also poignant, heartfelt and sad at the same time, very clever writing. Highly recommended if you need something on the lighter side in between other books. I loved the characters, especially George whom I now want to adopt as my Grandad.
but given the hype surrounding the author I was expecting big things.To be honest, if this was his first book we probably wouldn't know who Mark Haddon is.
Considering the profoundness of the characters epiphanies you could think the author is ten years old.
The style doesn't make you think otherwise as the sentences are connected by endless and...
I know Haddon was going for wry and humourous but it's a tricky thing.
On the other hand if Mark Haddon really is ten years old I'm changing my rating to four stars.
After Curios Dog, I was eager to read another book by the same author. I couldn't identify with the characters at all. I found myself wanting to shake some sense into them. I know characters shouldn't be perfect, but come on! I made myself finish it. While it does delve into the thought process of someone with acute anxiety and fear and irrational thought (that was a bit interesting), the rest I just couldn't stand.
Like most everyone else, I read this after reading "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time" - which I loved.
It's not that I expected this to be anything like that, but I wanted to see how this would compare.
A Spot of Bother is more a journey through the days of a somewhat typically dysfunctional family, with the father -George- going through an emotional crisis which leads his thoughts into periodic downward spirals.
Haddon excels in handling these voyages into the swift descent from reality with gentle humor, while juggling this with the rest of his family's crises.
A big read but very easy to read so i lapped it upLoved George and his health worries raised by his depression and wife’s infidelity Did not like his selfish wife at all and wanted to slap her!
Welcome to the wedding of Katie Hall and Ray. As the nearly runaway groom Ray says 'Weddings are about families' and the family is the entire cake!The world of George Hall, the father, turns upside down when he discovers a lesion on his hip and realizes his mortality.
Katie and Ray have problems of their own which stems from a simple fact - that they don't love each other.
The story could easily have become a drama of a disintegrating lives - but the writing makes sure they discover family and come out strong.
I liked the description of the confusion experienced by George and the relationships between family members although I sometimes felt that the lack of empathy and understanding was a bit unrealistic and some characters came across as selfish and after so much drama the ending came over as a bit flat.
His reaction, which looks to all intents and purposes like lunacy, is actually perfectly logical.Meanwhile, there’s his daughter Katie, about to get married for the second time and not sure whether or not she loves the bridegroom (though she undoubtedly adores her son from her first marriage), and Jamie, the gay son who nearly loses the first partner he has ever loved simply because he hasn’t learned how to do relationships.
I hadn’t quite seen that the novel was going to end up thunk in the middle of familyness: all these people who love each other, with the homosexual couple simply as a slight variation on the norm, decisions being possible to secure emotional ‘rightness’, the uncertainty and the madness a sort of passing phase.
"Talking was, in George's opinion, overrated.
And everyone needed to sound off now and then over a pint of Ruddles about colleagues who did not shower frequently enough, or teenage sons who had returned home drunk in the small hours and thrown up in the dog's basket.
But it did not change anything." (4)"The secret of contentment, George felt, lay in ignoring many things completely.
If only you could lift a lid on the top of your head and say, 'Look.'" (243)"That was the problem, wasn't it.
The other part was not giving a toss about what other people thought." (288)
Okay, here's how this breaks down:Book about a real-life serial killerTrin: I think I'll read this my first night in a strange, new apartment, in an unfamiliar neighborhood, when I'm all alone, and almost all the lights are off!
La la la!Book featuring one plot thread about a man's slow descent into madness, including a scene of botched self-surgeryTrin: *hides under the bed* *whimpers*Yeah.
I found this novel very hard to get through—which, if anything, should I suppose be a compliment to Haddon.
It's an incredible balancing act, and Haddon never stumbles.
Just, if you're planning to read this book, know what you're getting into.
It was just *shrugs* ..meh.George reminded me of Harold Fry in The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry , a character with whom I could not connect at all.
Feeble, weak and unresponsive to surroundings (had a bit more balls though).Apparently books about retired old men are really not my thing.
Mark Haddon does deserve some credit as his book was easy to read and did seem all the while to be leading up to something.
It wasn't good.
It wasn't good.
It wasn't bad.
It wasn't bad.
It was just *shrugs* ..meh.
I suspect this novel was whipped up to fulfill the second book of the author's deal with the publisher -- and given the phenomenal success of the author's first book, the publisher went ahead with it.
"A Spot Of Bother" lacks any of the precision and warmth and surprise of "A Curious..." Chapters read like outlines jotted down in a notebook.
Hypochondriac dad: check.
Philandering mother: check.
Bitch sister: check.
Gay brother: check.
But then we were back to characters who conformed to their outlines.
Vaguely ethnic doctor: check.
Mother feeling guilty: check.
Sister unsure of her fiance: check.
Brother dumped by boyfriend: check.Dreary.
