https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12578077-obsidian
It was the kind of relationship where the guy was a pretty-faced douchebag who would tell her he loved her one minute and the next he would be making snide remarks about her weight and about her career, or standing her up when they were supposed to be going somewhere.
But it's when I read books like Obsidian that I receive a painful reminder that this kind of psychology is not only way too frequent, but also constantly reinforced by books selling such relationships as romantic and passionate.
Do I need to point out the obvious example?Some people said this book was another Twilight - complete with sappy heroine, paranormal love interest and a shit ton of angst.
Since I wrote it, I kind of think it deserves 5 stars. =)
Aliens, hot aliens? DAEMON BLACK???? YES PLEASE!Loved this book, read it in 2012 but decided to come back and write a review for it. This is actually the book that made me start book blogging!
3.5/5This book was such a quick, fun read! I haven't read an alien book before, and I found these aliens to be so interesting. Katy was a great main character and I LOVED that she had a book blog. It was a little repetitive at times and the constant bickering between Katy and Daemon, although funny and filled with sexual tension, was almost too much sometimes. However, I'm invested in this story now I will be picking up the next book sometime in the future!
“I have a strange idea that I should test this out.”“Test what?” My eyes dropped to his lips. I felt myself sway.“I think you would like to know.” He moved closer, his hand sliding up my arm and resting carefully at the nape of my neck. Well, now I know why this series is so popular :)It took me one scene, meeting Daemon, to completely fall in love with him/the book. And it just got better and better! I literally couldn't stop reading and ended up finishing it in the same day I started.Well tha
-The romance-*sigh*Well, first thing you need to know is that with Daemon, hearing something romantic come out of his mouth is practically impossible, even though he had his wonderful moments which I treasured because they were rare :DBut it was all still there, even though he behaves like a jerk to her, he's still protective, and man, that made some amazingly swoony scenes in here <3And even though I've said it before, every scene with those two was amazing, it was full of tension and butterflies <3Can't wait to see how their relationship moves forward with each book :)-Daemon-He's the overprotective brother, trying to prevent Dee (the sister) from forming a friendship with Katy, the new neighbor.
I value my time too much to purposely read books I know I won’t like.
On her first day in the new house, Katy meets her next door neighbors, twins Dee and Daemon.
While she and Dee instantly hit it off, Daemon acts like a total jerk and makes some cryptic comments about ‘Katy’s kind’.
As the time passes, Kat starts noticing that something is not quite right with the way Daemon, Dee and their friends are behaving, and then he saves her from an attacker and well… you know the rest.
It’s true that Daemon doesn’t sparkle, but he IS made of light.
Alien. I fell in love with a freaking alien. Not one of those greeny three-eyed creatures but still he is extraterrestrial life. As if book boyfriends from this galaxy weren't enough.  “Welcome to West Virginia, the land of lost models.”  There was something off with this little Virginia town Katy was forced to move in. Strange things happened, people were supposed to light up like Christmas trees and there was gossip about Men in Black lurking in the streets. And things got even weirder when Ka
And things got even weirder when Katy spent time with her extremely beautiful neighbors, Dee and Daemon.
He was mostly a rude jerk, but his love towards his sister was touching and the moments he was vulnerable were enough to balance his assholiness.And the scenes between Daemon and Kat?Holy Hawt Chemisty, Batman!If you're looking for a good Young Adult novel from a very talented author, then Obsidian is the book for you.
After you finish it, you will wish you were kidnapped by aliens (the hot ones who don't look like Chewbacca anyway).
I'll even take it a step further and say it was like Armentrout woke up one day and said, "I'm going to write a book using all the tropes and clichés people usually hate and they're still gonna love the shit out of this book." You might be wondering, "How can one possibly make Twilight better?!" Well, let's take a look at Armentrout's plan for blogosphere domination:Step One: Create a likable and relatable main character.How do you make a female main character instantly relatable to most of the female blogging community?
Armentrout sets up Daemon's character for redemption because finally someone is saying, "Enough with all the douchebags treating the heroine like shit and still ending up with her in the end just by apologizing." And that is why Obsidian ultimately won me over.
5 WHOLE INSANE STARS! One of the best books I have ever read and also the best series starter I know. I have read this series and I must say it gets better and better.But believe me it starts GREAT.The story is interesting and keeps you thrilled the whole time.The characters are smoky cool.I could relate so much to this book (beside the alien thing). Me while reading the book :  “You look like you got more of a bath than the car. I neverthought washing a car would be so hard, but after watching
One of the best books I have ever read and also the best series starter I know.
I have read this series and I must say it gets better and better.But believe me it starts GREAT.The story is interesting and keeps you thrilled the whole time.The characters are smoky cool.I could relate so much to this book (beside the alien thing).
Come on.” I highly recommand you to read this book and the whole series.It's one of the greatest I have ever read.
Jesus.Picked this book up at 1 AM and read it straight through until 6 AM.
A funny, entertaining, and very addicting read.
It's one of those "new girl moves to town and falls in with a group of non-humans lead by a gorgeous yet douchey guy" kind of stories, but Katy is a really refreshing main character.
She's snarky and can stand up for herself and despite her attraction to Daemon, she's not afraid to call him a dickhead when he's being one.Definitely a must read for lovers of YA paranormal romance!
More Katy and Daemon please and thank you!
I want to feel like there are other creatures out there in this vast universe of ours, with greater knowledge, greater intelligence, and maybe one day they'll grace us with their presence and bestow on us their superior intellect.I certainly hope those future aliens are more intelligent than the dumb-as-dirt creatures in Obsidian.Seriously, how stupid can you get?
You do not act like everyone is your enemy and warn off the friendly girl next door just because she wants to know where the closest store is.I just don't understand how this book got so many positive reviews.
I can't believe that I haven't reviewed this, because I remember really liking this book.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Obsidian, and I didn't think I was going to because when I read books about Aliens, I always picture the alien from the film Alien...and that's not a sexy image.
Obsidian starts with our heroine, Katy Swartz moving to West Virginia to start over.
His name his Daemon Black.
This book is a Paranormal Romance and Mystery.
And Daemon?
I want a Daemon for myselfI love reading books with guys like Daemon.
For me it makes the book more exciting.

Don't mind me doing my happy dance... ******This Valentines Day I fell in Love with Jennifer L. Armentrout. I had been hearing through the grapevine about JLA an one particular grape has been rather loud about her work. So with all the faith that Kay @ K-books knows what she is talking about I picked up Obsidian first chance I had to read one of "my choice" reads. And now I can officially jump on Ms. Armentrout's space ship and enthusiastically follow her anywhere...   I am not usually a big sci
I am not usually a big sci-fi reader but there are a few I can like, well I guess now there is one I LOVE and that is the Lux series.
Some Authors try to capture true sarcastic personalities and wittiness in their characters but JLA masters it.
It's extraordinary!I also love the quirky personality in Kat and the way she stands up to the enigma that is our sexy arrogant devastatingly handsome Daemon.
Armentrout , blog, twitter, facebook, and goodreads.You didn't doubt my stalking skills didja?Recommended for teens & Adult YA lovers.This one gets my top rating above the five stars it was - BEAST!Book covers
This is not an invalid point.-6 inhuman teenagers who pretend to be siblings – 1) the love interest (Edward/Daemon) 2) the delicate best friend of the protagonist (Alice/Dee) 3) The bitch sister who doesn’t approve (Rosalie/Ash) 4+5) Background dudes who we don’t see a lot of – one of which is partnered with Alice/Dee.-New girl MC goes to school and meets asshole who is only behaving that way to protect his family.-New girl is with sole parent who provides highly dubious supervision and new girl acts like the parent – cooking, cleaning, shopping etc.-Love interest is devastatingly, unbelievably, inhumanly hot.Blah, blah, blah – we all know the deal.
"If she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now."  HOLY ALIEN HOTNESS.After hearing nothing but positive things about this series, I thought it was about time I'd give it a try myself to find out what all the hype was about and WOW... I'm SO GLAD I finally started it!!! There was never a dull moment in this first part of the series and once I got into the story, I ended up devouring it! I'm pretty sure this will quickly become my new favorite YA series once I continue wit
I loved the characters, the original storyline and the engaging writing style and well, Daemon Black is one hot alien you just HAVE to meet...
Starting over is never easy...After Katy's father passed away, her mother decides it's best for them to leave the house they used to live in and move some place new.
While struggling to find her place in this strangely populated town, Katy also has to find a way to cope her handsome but extremely arrogant neighbor Daemon Black.
But since, Katy has become best friends with Daemon's twin sister Dee (who's character I absolutely loved btw!), they are forced to spent some time together.
“So the dickhead had a name. Daemon—seemed fitting.”  What do you get when you combine a shy girl from Florida and a sexy, arrogant next door neighbor? You get  OBSIDIAN!What do I think about this book?  [image error] Okay! I think that shows just about how much I love this book! And how absolutely crazy I am of it but at first I didn’t really feel that way towards it.INITIAL THOUGHTSA lot of my goodreads friends recommended this book to me but I was like “Oh no! Aliens?”. Then I saw a lot of
You don’t often get kickass characters who read and blog right?Also she was not like most of the other female lead characters in YA books nowadays who are so dependent on their guys that it almost makes me gag just by reading about it.I hate needy, reliant female characters and Katy was NOT one of them.And I seriously enjoyed reading about her because she doesn’t take crap from ahhheeem Daemon who was also well a jerk most of the time.Plus this girl was not stupid.
Most of the time I spent reading Obsidian, was with a big fat grin plastered on my face.What bothered me was how obvious and predictable the situation was: Katy being the new girl in town, Daemon Black being at least as obviously dark and sexy and mysterious as his name, the two of them "hating" and falling for each other, and the big secret that Daemon and his family tried to hide from Katy.There were so many Twilight similarities, but that didn't stop me from reading, since it was light and funny and really entertaining.I admit, I also kinda fell for Daemon, despite his stupid name and attitude.And now I can't wait to get my fingers on the sequels.Find more of my books on Instagram
I really enjoyed this book! It took me a while to read.. but that is because I am in a EPIC book slump. But i am obsessed with Katy. She is literally me..! Jumping into book two now!
Κουίζ:Τι κάνει κάποιος, στην προκειμένη περίπτωση ο Ντέιμον, όταν θέλει να αποφύγει -και το τονίζω να αποφύγει, να αποφύγει, δεν θυμάμαι το είπα;- μία κοπέλα και συγκεκριμένα την Κατ;...................................................................................Περνάει όλη τη μέρα μαζί της φυσικά!
Αυτό ακριβώς κάνει.
Την πηγαίνει για μπάνιο –ναι, ξέρω, εκεί τον πίεσαν, δεν ήθελε.
Γενικότερα, πέρα από τις στιγμές που "αναγκαζόταν" να είναι μαζί της, έβλεπα ότι το επιδίωκε και ο ίδιος.
Και αυτό σημαίνει αποφεύγω κάποιον.
Μάλλον θα χαρίσω το βιβλίο στον δικό μου καυτό γείτονα, αλλάζοντας τον τίτλο σε: 10+1 βήματα για να αποφύγετε τη γειτόνισσα σας.
I mean you might think you have standards and are above all this abs stuff 🙄🙄 but, case in point, you should just see what this book has done to my GR friend Aimee, a sworn enemy of these trashtastic books who is now SO addicted she's already on the third book of this series!!!!Am I smug for recommending this to my book group and for having pretty much all of them fall desperately in love with my Daemon....
I mean I can recommend some great science books to you if you want but certainly not this 😂😂😂But the best part of this book is the relationship between Katy and Daemon.
Sure, there are parts where it's exciting and there's a few hot scenes between Daemon and Katy because they do have some pretty great chemistry, but those weren't enough for me to love this book.I actually really liked Katy, despite finding her a bit annoying at times.
The other characters were all cardboard cutouts and essentially added nothing to the story.The writing was okay and I did find this super easy to read in the parts I wasn't bored out of my mind.Even the antagonists were hilariously bad.
Despite her familiar casting as the new girl in town who has no idea that she’s pretty – Katy has personality, interests, a good relationship with her mother and is generally down to earth.
Sure, the “bookish” type heroine feels a little tired these days, but Katy seemed like a strong enough character to carry this story.
A few sharply rendered, interesting characters are counter balanced with some that feel like caricatures.
Given the fact that a book I wanted to find entertaining yet left me feeling wound up and annoyed, I think it’s safe to say that it wasn’t for me.
Oh WOW! That's all I've got. Well that and you MUST read this.
❝If she was mine, I'd cherish every inch of her. And I wanted to. Now.❞ Rating: ★★I don't think I'll ever get to love Paranormal Romance in any way. It's just something that doesn't get my attention or has me hooked up in any way. I kind of find that kind of romance weird to start off with. It's not something I enjoy reading about simply because it is a human catching feelings for some creature—faes, vampires, werewolves, aliens, zombies, ghosts, and other paranormals that I can't think of.Afte
The characters were rude, the plot came to make sense towards the end, the romance didn't feel right at first and still doesn't, and everything else slowly came to a fast end leaving me worried about thinking if I should order the other books._________________________________Starting off with the story, we see that Katy and her mom have recently moved to West Virginia from Florida.
This is my first book by Jennifer, but it definitely won't be my last.
There is no wonder she has been getting rave reviews so far.Obsidian gets us acquainted with Katy, who has just moved to a boring small town in West Virginia, and with not-so-boring Daemon who is the most arrogant human being she has ever met.
a little.I instantly clicked with Katy- and not just because she is a book blogger even though that was awesome -, I found her to be a lot like me.
I particularly appreciated her reaction to finding out Daemon was an alien.
WOW just WOW~! O_O bye! i need to go read it again!Full review at chocolatecoatedreviews.blogspot.com
The story line, plot, the idea of aliens, the characters, the romance and all the hilarious conversations between Daemon and Katy!
My fave part about the book was the first conversation Daemon and Katy have.
Well, the first thing that comes to my mind is YUMMMM and then he is sooo funny!
It was funny, cause when I was reading I always was anticipating when he would say something hilarious and I would laugh my ass off!
I can't wait to read Onyx next and see where Katy and Daemon's relationship goes.
I just wish the waiting time was much less.
I really liked the main character and I thought it was cool that she was a book blogger.
She was also sassy and a bit unpredictable at times, which I liked.
He's such a frustrating character, he was super moody and temperamental throughout this book.
The dialogue between the characters was often hilarious and I was surprised by some of the action packed scenes.
Something that did make me uncomfortable was the steamy lovey dovey scenes, but that's mostly because I just don't like that kind of stuff.
In fact at times I found myself skimming over those scenes.
Long story short, hate Daemon, love Katy. That's pretty much it.
