https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6686137-the-lees-of-happiness
"To these two ,life had come quickly and gone, leaving not bitterness, but pity, not disillusion, but only pain. There was already enough moonlight when they shook hands for each to see the gathered kindness in the other's eyes"
This story was about ordinary people, living ordinary lives, suffering the anguish of the sheer ordinariness of everything; laughing, crying and dying in their own little worlds, pursuing their own happiness, leaving no footprints behind and not bothering to either.
The title itself is such a sheer genius in his part.
'Lees', after consulting a dictionary, I found meant, 'dregs' or 'sediments' and after completing the book I was amazed at how perfect the title is.
The story really is about true happiness held for a brief space of time, before being snatched away by life and its cruel sense of humour, leaving only its dregs behind.
According to The Canary Express  this short story by F.
Scott Fitzgerald, first published in 1922, is one of the best examples of Fitzgerald's often focus on the sense of disaster, or in this case the "sediment" of disaster after the happiness is ended when the husband in this happy marriage is stricken with a disease rendering him relatively lifeless and ending the happy marriage, despite his wife's continued devotion.Perhaps this is too close to home for me to truly appreciate, but it is a memorable story, especially contrasted with the unhappy marriage of their friends which ends in divorce.
One of the more powerful stories by Fitzgerald I have read recently.I listened to this on a podcast through loyalbooks.com.
I am not into romantic novels or love stories. But this one was one of a kind! The main characters exist not in our everyday lives but once in a while you listen to the news about that couple holding hands till death or the ones that were married for 70 years and in love. This is it! a strange for my taste unconditional love. Maybe this one will make you rethink what love or passion or romantism . Certainly it will leave you with bittersweet feelings about Roxanne. And what her future holds for her.
Франсис Скот Фицджералд е блестящ разказвач и неговите произведения, в този конкретен сборник, разказват за красивите илюзии и големите разочарования, за това как всяка мечта може да завърши като трагедия, но и как от всяка трагедия може да се роди нова мечта. Като всеки сборник и тук може би не всички разкази заслужават максимална оценка, но тънкият хумор, скритият психологизъм и лиричната нотка ми допаднаха като цяло.
"Τα απομεινάρια της ευτυχίας" : ένα ευκολοδιάβαστο αφήγημα που, ομως, κατάφερε να με αιχμαλωτίσει για ώρες μετά την ολοκλήρωση της ανάγνωσης του.
Τι απέγινε η Ρωξανη, αυτή η όμορφη γυναίκα από την οποία η ζωή στέρησε τη χαρά τόσο νωρις; Προσπάθησα να σκεφτώ αν παντρεύτηκε τον φίλο του αντρα της, αν μετέτρεψε το σπίτι της σε ξενώνα...Μήπως εκεί ανάμεσα στους ενοικιαστές γνώρισε πάλι τον Ερωτα και απέκτησε ίσως και ένα παιδί; Ή έμεινε τελικά μόνη, σε ένα σπίτι γεμάτο αναμνήσεις με το πέπλο της αυτοθυσιας της να καλύπτει τα πάντα, ως το τέλος.
Ο Έρωτας και η τραγωδία που σημαδεύει τη ζωή και διαλύει τα πάντα.
Sad, but not heart breaking. A look at how life can seem wonderful one minute, turn quickly and you are done in, but choose to soldier on.
To these two life had come quickly and gone, leaving not bitterness, but pity; not disillusion, but only pain. There was already enough moonlight when they shook hands for each to see the gathered kindness in the other's eyes.Yes, the story was rather sad but in this powerful way that makes you feel, that makes you remember that life is beautiful in its complexity/diversity and on the other hand in its simplicity/similarity.You can find it on LibriVox and Wikisource.
Version française: L'étrange histoire de Benjamin Button  La lie du bonheur1921-1922Deux nouvelles très délicieuses, avec une touche de tristesse face à l'existence.Première nouvelle: L'étrange histoire de Benjamin Button est celle d'un enfant qui naît vieux à l'âge de 70 ans et qui rajeunit de jour en jour.
Son histoire d'amour avec une femme qui vieillit alors que lui-même rajeunit est émouvante.
Alors que son époux est victime d'un ACV qui le laisse paralysé, sourd et aveugle pendant une dizaine d'années, elle continue de vivre avec lui, de le soigner et de s'occuper de tout.
Still, there's something hopeful in it, I found.
maybe hopeful isn't the right word, but I don't have the right word at the moment, so it's what I'll use.
This didn't end how one would think, but the ending isn't wrong.
It feels more honest than how I thought it would end, and I like that he went for the least happy ending.
I've got a lot of jumbled thoughts on this short story, and maybe I'll re-read it down the road and update this review to make more sense.
Here's what I can say without any confusion- read this.
"В целия свят има само диаманти - диаманти и може би дребната дарба да се разочароваш."
http://www.classicreader.com/book/3774/
It was an enjoyable short story and I found myself thoroughly interested in the characters and their issues. I wish this had been a longer book as it was a very good read.
It was an interesting read with a good message.
Très court mais très réussi!
This was beautiful :')
An enjoyable short story with a thoughtful and wistful ending. I listened to a lovely reading of it with a Southern lilt by Librivox volunteer Laurie Anne Walden.
