https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18209454-the-thousand-dollar-tan-line
My only thoughts about the upcoming release of the Veronica Mars movie AND the subsequent book series:Oh, and this: Can't wait! PS: I wrote this review while wearing my VMARS Kickstarter backer t-shirt, watching reruns of Season 1. #sorrynotsorry PPS: TEAM LoVe FOREVER.
Please don't suck, please don't suck...Update: It didn't suck!
It was actually really amazing and completely what I was hoping for.
Veronica Mars fans are going to love this one, and more so if they get the Kristen Bell narrated audio book, I imagine.
My only complaint is the romance absence, but honestly, the mystery more than made up for this.
I'm sure we will see more LoVe in the future.
And I'm banking that there will be a future, at least in book form.
For now, I'm glad we got to see Veronica Mars doing what she does best: mystery solving!
Just do yourself a favour and read it.To be an avid marshmallow and receive not only a movie, but ALSO a book series that continues Veronica's story is, quite frankly incredible.
I won't lie, if you have never watched Veronica Mars then you're unlikely to know what is going on, as the book (like the movie) uses a lot of cameos and little inside jokes that fans of the show will really appreciate, where as non-fans will find themselves scratching their heads a bit.
RIGHT?I'm honestly so happy and cannot wait for book number two!
It's actually fun to get a glance inside Veronica's head - we get asides in the show, but in the book there's room to explore her thoughts and feelings.
(I felt this way about the movie, too, but to a lesser degree.) With the book, Rob Thomas is planting a flag in the sand: this is how Veronica Mars is going to continue, with Veronica back in Neptune and back with the same people she tried to escape after high school.
I don't want to read a series of mystery novels that features Veronica in Neptune, solving crime, forever.
She tried to relax her shoulders.This book picked up after the plot of the movie; Veronica and Mac head up the PI business and Keith Mars is recovering from the car crash.
However, a girl soon goes missing and Veronica is called in to investigate.
Not before long, another girl goes missing.
Veronica Mars is a character I massively idolised as a teen and the book stayed true to the character I grew up loving.
This book had all the savvy quips and comebacks expected of the super sleuth, Veronica Mars, and was an absolute delight to read.
Oh. My. God. We are finally getting a movie and now we are getting a book series too!? I officially proclaim 2014 the year of the marshmallow!
The Thousand Dollar Tan Line is the ideal novel that fans of VMars will eat up, for we are once again invited back into the world of mystery, parties, scandal and corruption.I should probably mention that to those who aren't familiar with the series is that the TV series follows Veronica Mars when she was a teenager who worked at the receptionist (among other things) of her father's company--Mars Investigations--and now, nine years later, Veronica has become a Private Investigator herself and is now her father's partner.The Thousand Dollar Tan Line picks up soon after where the movie ended with our favourite marshmallow, Veronica, a Private Investigator, who has just landed her first big case.
SO GREAT! If you love Veronica Mars, you'll definitely love this book. I listened to the audiobook which was narrated by Kristen Bell, so the whole thing felt like one extended VM episode! I loved the mystery and pacing of it, and seeing all the characters again was wonderful.
3.5 STARSHave you ever had a relationship that you knew wasn’t working, couldn’t work, would never work? But you just couldn’t help yourself, because the way it didn’t work was so damn good? So this is where my Two-Week Throwback ends. 64 episodes, a movie and now a book series. Which is funny because I read somewhere that Rob Thomas originally intended for Veronica Mars to be a serialized novel before it was picked up as a TV show.As someone late in the Marshmallow Party, from where I stand, t
I wish there’d be more exploration on the disappointing fact that she is in fact back in Neptune, much as Mac and Wallace are also conveniently back in their old saddles (when I think about it, among the cast, only Logan has a complete HEA … so far.)Perhaps a compromise on the part of Thomas in resurrecting this character for the benefit of the fans by putting her back where she left off but in doing so, rendering the past nine years an exercise in futility.
Which means that not only have I watched all three seasons of the TV show (ahem, multiple times), I was also one of the 91,585 backers on Kickstarter who helped get the Veronica Mars movie made.In short, I am the perfect audience for this book.
(If you have not yet watched the Veronica Mars movie, there are some spoilers in the book for how that case is solved.) It's Spring Break in Neptune, California, and a young woman goes missing.
These eleven "likes" do not reflect any judgement or views for the below section of the review.)First: If you have not seen the Veronica Mars television series or watched the Veronica Mars movie:Reader, meet Veronica.
But Veronica, Dick, Mac, Wallace, etc...: They are here--smarter, wiser, older...But they still read true.NarrationFor the first time, the audience is privy to a less censured view of Veronica's thoughts and feelings.As mentioned earlier, I was worried.
However, when the reader lets go and reads on, she discovers (or at least I did) that knowing more about Veronica's thoughts and feelings helps the story to grow and the audience to grow with her.
It's here!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!IT'S ALMOST MARCH! Pre-ordered!!!!!!!!!!!!!!SO much geeking out!!I think a series re-watch is in order. :)
This book goes back to making the mystery the focus, the nitty-grittiness, the noir element that makes Veronica Mars so great (not that I wasn't keeping my eyes peeled for mentions of Logan, like have we never met).At 300 pages, it's a pretty quick read.
These stupid, broken fucks who need each other because what they have weathered no one else could possibly understand -- I HAVE TO TAKE A BREATH.The point is -- the Veronica in this book with Logan is a much softer, gentler Veronica who really fucking misses her boyfriend and, like, give me a hundred-thousand more words about it, because we NEVER GET TO SEE THIS AND IT'S AMAZING AND DOES THINGS TO MY HEART.OKAY.Now, the big thing that I didn't see coming, and which SOCKED ME IN THE STOMACH when I got to -- Lianne.
But soon, the case gets much more personal, and it's a story Veronica Mars fans have been waiting for.Rob Thomas and Jennifer Graham do their best to serve the fans, but, as in the movie, it's done fairly elegantly, maybe even moreso, as the book doesn't have nearly as many cameos.
As in the movie, however, the book is Veronica-centric, and the story plays like an exciting superlong episode with a twisty mystery worthy of the Veronica Mars name.I loved returning to Neptune and these characters, who have been with me for a decade now.
So easy to see this as a story arc of the already existing canon. Even better with KBell's narration.Wish the next audiobook had her narrating as well, but at least I can still just read it so that I can imagine in in her voice!
But she is surprised when she discovers that she has a strong personal connection to one of the girls and that she has to find a way to put aside her own emotional turmoil in order to work the case.
Corruption in Neptune is worse than ever, which means Veronica has to work around the inept Sheriff if she wants to make any progress on her case.
And then, just to push things from bad to worse, her Mom shows up…I’ve come to admire Veronica even more now that she’s an adult.
For his part, Logan is the one she turns to for emotional support.
Doesn’t the plot sound dramatic!!Have you ever had a relationship that you knew wasn’t working, couldn’t work, would never work?
Although after looking into recent winners like “The girl on the train”, I was bit skeptical.
The book started as I said bit dramatic, I thought it would be complete drama, I was little taken aback initially.
After first break I was like completely swayed, nothing to do with mafia, drugs, raves, totally different angle.
I like the twists and turns with second case.
Nothing dramatic just too prose, logical.
A decent little but a complete classic noir.
I absolutely adored this book and I read it in one sitting - the writing was PERFECT and felt exactly like watching the show. It was so much fun to hear all the characters voices in my head as I read; to picture their mannerisms and the settings and the little looks shared between characters. Such a unique experience, since novelizations of TV shows generally don't hold a candle to the original show. This was wonderful. I can't wait for the next one, and I hope there are more.
It's hard to know how I would have felt about THE THOUSAND-DOLLAR TAN LINE had I read it.
One has to assume there would've been more delight than dismay considering this spin-off from the Veronica Mars show literally follows in the steps of the movie and was written by the same creator and writer.
Which makes the fact that she isn't the one narrating book two pretty disappointing.This story felt very true to a typical Veronica Mars mystery with all the twists and turns and surprises I've come to expect from the writers.
Again, had I read it, would it have compared to the show and movie?
See below:________________________________________From Rob Thomas, the creator of the television series and movie phenomenon Veronica Mars, comes the first book in a thrilling mystery series that picks up where the feature film left off.
And when a major break in the investigation has a shocking connection to Veronica’s past, the case hits closer to home than she ever imagined.In Veronica Mars, Rob Thomas has created a groundbreaking female detective who’s part Phillip Marlowe, part Nancy Drew, and all snark.

A decent little book - I felt like I was watching an episode of the show. While I think you can enjoy this without having watched the show, I think you will appreciate it more if you have.
Picking up the story a couple of months after the movie, 'Tan Line' is perfect for fangirls (and boys) who need a little more Veronica in their lives.
I've always been a proud marshmallow, the movie had me grinning from beginning to end, so it was unlikely that I wouldn't love this book.
Reading it soon after watching the movie definitely made it even better, not just because the story follows on, but because I was reminded of everything I loved about the characters and the actors playing them.
it's written with some back story information stuffed in so that you *can* read it as a standalone.
This book hits right where it should hit and if I'm honest I liked it more than the movie.
Where the movie felt a bit rushed, the book gets the chance to really go into the story and into Veronica's feelings.
One thing I really liked was that the book was filled with references back to the series and that made me feel overjoyed and giddy.
This book, unlike the movie, isn't trying to please newcomers to the fandom.
The plot is easy to understand and the story will make you want to finish this book immediately.
When most people were reading "Harry Potter," (which I was not able to), I was watching "Veronica Mars," she was the Hermione I didn't get to experience as a child, and she was/is AMAZING.After the film I could only think of reading this series, because I knew I would love it, and love it I did.
(But watch film first, because spoilers)The audiobook is the format I recommend, because Kristen Bell herself narrates the story, and she is brilliant, she is Veronica, she is that one character that inspired and guided me throughout my young years, and being back, hearing her voice, was something I was not expecting.
Just read this book, do it for Veronica, do it for the Mars!
3.5 stars. A solid mystery, good twists, lagged a bit in the middle with the various red herrings. I listened to Kristen Bell reading this, so naturally, I had Veronica's voice in my head the entire time. I did enjoy her take on Keith, Mac, and the other characters' voices, but mostly it was just lovely to have Kristen narrate the story to me. Review to come.
Riveting, Engrossing, Full Of Twists & Turns! A Refreshing Read! I Loved It!
RTC
Took me forever listening to the audio and even though I’mAt 50%, I’m losing interest so I’m moving on ...
I just saw Mr. Kiss and Tell on GR awarad nominations and I just had to double check and see if there really is a Veronica Mars book to go along with the my favourite TV series...
There is a Veronica Mars book?!!
I really hope this book and the sequel are just as amazing as the TV series.
I want a resolution to Veronica and Logan's epic will-they-won't-they romance and if this series will do that then I will be a happy woman.
The romance with Logan is the irresistible cheery on top.
