https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34114362-what-happened
For the record, it hurts to be torn apart. I doubt I will go into too much depth about this book. I figure that most people fall into one of two groups - those who already know about and agree on the political aspects of What Happened, and those who will refuse to read it on principle (and may hate me on principle just for giving it a high rating).As expected, it covers the events leading up to, during, and after the 2016 election. Hillary talks policy issues inc. immigration, gun control and p
I figure that most people fall into one of two groups - those who already know about and agree on the political aspects of What Happened, and those who will refuse to read it on principle (and may hate me on principle just for giving it a high rating).As expected, it covers the events leading up to, during, and after the 2016 election.
She talks about her experiences as a woman in politics and I felt my heart break all over again at the deep sorrow she feels about letting so many down, especially the young women who saw her as a symbol of what they could achieve.
Politics is only a part of this book.
And don’t think you’re going to get a rise out of me, I’ll just be laughing as I block and delete because it makes it easier to know who to avoid.Okay, that aside.
And Hillary Clinton has made the path forward a little bit easier for professional women going forward, and she needs to be given praise for that.The book (obviously) deals with her run for president.
It’s also interesting to note, that a lot of people don’t like my sister because she’s direct…funny, how being direct is considered a plus when you have a penis and not a vagina.There is also an intimate quality to the book.
However - I have no interest in getting into a political discussion with anyone over my review of this memoir - which is something I love about Goodreads - as it tends to stay above the political fray - so please don’t bring the negativity here.In “What Happened” - Hillary Clinton chronicles her life, (including her childhood, her marriage and her career) and then explains what she believes happened in the 2016 election against Trump, including internal and external factors.
Like I said, it felt like Secretary Clinton was talking to me, sitting in my living room - as if we were having a glass of wine and she was telling me her story.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestEdit: She won the GR Choice Awards for this book!I guess you could say this is the second time she's won the popular vote. ( ° ʖ °)LOL I see that I lost a few friends over this review. You know what that means! Time to add this book to the books-that-made-me-lose-friends shelf. >:D My dad used to tell me not to get near a scared animal; that it couldn't understand what your intentions were and since you couldn't exactly explain to said a
If you love Hillary, this book will make you love her more, because she's the thoughtful, articulate, compassionate, intelligent, go-getting, invested candidate you wanted - in spades.I've almost forgotten what an actual president sounds like, because I've been bombarded with xenophobic, Islamophobic, transphobic, bigoted, juvenile rhetoric for so long.Before I get into that, though, let me just clear up a few things.But what about her emails?
this is my hundredth book read this year! congrats, self!edit:i would like to add that one of the very first lines in the book, in the author's note, is,  "i've tried to learn from my own mistakes. there are plenty, as you'll see in this book, and they are mine and mine alone."  so enough with the "she's just going to blame everyone else!!!!!!1" nonsense.• • •prior to reading, i five-starred this book to offset idiots leaving one-star ratings
She could easily say, "I ran a poor campaign. I failed to connect with voters and I lost." Instead, we get page after page of excuses. Most disappointing!
I don't care what anyone says, this was a kick ASS read, hands down.
"Losing is hard for everyone, but losing a race you thought you would win is devastating."I was one of many Americans watching the 2016 presidential election results come in, feeling shock, disbelief, horror, and utter disappointment as the realization that Hillary Clinton had been defeated began to sink in.
One star to offset those who have five starred to offset those who have one starred.
I ended up liking What Happened more than I thought I would.
I thought it would be boring because quite frankly I find Hillary Clinton to be boring.
The American people are worse off but Hillary is fine.
Full Disclosure: I voted for her.
I'm a black woman so Why in HELL would I vote a racist?
I voted for her because there was no other choice.
I'm not going to recommend this book to anyone because I find its hard to find people who don't already have a preconceived notion about Hillary or any politician.
This most personal and self-reflective of all Hillary Clinton’s books may not have taken a village to rear, but it did take half a squad: two speech writers (Dan Schwerin expository specialist, Megan Rooney narrative specialist), one researcher (Tony Carrk), and—of course—Hillary Clinton herself.
I’m sure it was a chore to write, and it is often a chore to read, what with the exhaustive lists of the people—the famous of course but also the humble (but exemplary)—she encountered on the campaign trail, her typical domestic routines (far too much information), and her extraordinarily specific plans for how President Hillary intended to make America better (I’m sorry, but you lost, and the detailed aspirations of a presidency which will never happen are best left to the specialists now).
"When you lose to somebody who has 40% popularity, you don't blame other things -- Comey, Russia -- you blame yourself," Chuck SchumerYou lost it.
Blame the fake polls up to the last minute of the election; check the 8th of November 2016 in The New York Times.
You may even blame Nate Silver and Comey and the Democratic Party infrastructure.
Yet, you lost.
(The Week, November 11, 2016)--Hillary Clinton to 'let her guard down' in candid 2016 election memoirin: https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...Democrats Fret as Clinton Book Rollout Loomsin: https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articl...Clinton’s score-settling frustrates DemocratsIn: http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/...Hillary Clinton’s new book blasts Republicans and Russia.
What I will say is this: It is not a book by an angry, bitter, "nasty" woman.
People have very strong feelings about Hillary Clinton.
Some will be happy to bash this book - often without having read it - as a self-indulgent tome by a woman who cannot be a good loser.
Anecdotes of her family, her colleagues, her professional and personal existence make What Happened a book about a life, not only a campaign.
She lost the electoral vote, yes, but she gained the title of the first woman who even came close to attaining the US presidency.
The Church of HRC is once again attempting to re-create Saint Hillary.This is the same woman who as Secretary of State, who's duties include: Serves as the President's principal adviser on U.S. foreign policy;Conducts negotiations relating to U.S. foreign affairs;Grants and issues passports to American citizens and exequaturs to foreign consuls in the United States;Advises the President on the appointment of U.S. ambassadors, ministers, consuls, and other diplomatic representatives;Advises the President regarding the acceptance, recall, and dismissal of the representatives of foreign governments;Personally participates in or directs U.S. representatives to international conferences, organizations, and agencies;Negotiates, interprets, and terminates treaties and agreements;Ensures the protection of the U.S. Government to American citizens, property, and interests in foreign countries;Supervises the administration of U.S. immigration laws abroad;Provides information to American citizens regarding the political, economic, social, cultural, and humanitarian conditions in foreign countries;Informs the Congress and American citizens on the conduct of U.S. foreign relations;Promotes beneficial economic intercourse between the United States and other countries;Administers the Department of State;Supervises the Foreign Service of the United States.
Don't go away."....*sniff*..."I'm not going anywhere." she smiles."Are you okay Stephanie?" she asks as she pours us another glass.
hey we both have shih-poos ....aren't they the best dogs ever?!?" She laughs "yes they are, Stephanie." She raises her glass and so do I "To the United States of America!" she says..."To the United States of America.." and we finish our wine.We make our way to the cars and get in...."Nice limo, Hill"....I don't care if you don't like Hillary Clinton and she probably doesn't care either.
I really enjoyed reading this book.
I shared Hilary’s anger when after the election many people ( young women mostly) said they were so sorry they didn’t do more - they didn’t even vote.
Hilary was thinking ...( but didn’t say )..“YOU WANT ME TO FEEL SORRY FOR YOU”....for not voting?
She won the popular vote.
I also share the same thoughts as Hilary when she said ....“As an American I’m worried about our country, as for me, I’m doing ok”.Maybe I was late to the party, but this book was still worth reading!!!!!
This book seeks not only to analyse what happened during the campaign and on the lead-up to Election Day, but also instil into the reader some of the key issues at hand, as well as given personal insight into those issues from the losing candidate.
She discusses some of the key hurdles she faced, as well as two overwhelming issues (Russia and the FBI) that proved devastating to a campaign that sought to shatter glass ceilings once and for all.
This is a telling book that takes the reader through many of the areas of greatest strain in the country, which have surely been exacerbated by the election of Donald Trump.
I've preordered Hillary Clinton's book and am giving it 5 stars in advance to help offset the actions of her haters, who also haven't read her book but are giving it 1 star apiece in an attempt to hold down her sales and her side of the story. Almost 100 years ago another group of authoritarian "Christian" men and their wives stood against the suffragettes, and they were wrong too. Hillary Clinton won the popular vote, but misogyny won the election.
For some reason, I've been dawdling over my review of What Happened.I listened to the audio as I walked to and from work over the last several weeks.
This is not a perfect book and Hillary Clinton is not perfect, but Jeez Louise, really?
And I love her concluding call for "deep empathy" -- the need for people to try to understand each other and try to work together across their differences -- a concept that resonates acutely with me.The middle felt a bit saggy, which explains my 4 stars.
Please explain."Me: "Well, I'm listening to Hillary read it on audio, and it's nice to hear her voice, to remember that she's still around and wanting to do good in the world.
In the last year, I have read countless articles and several books trying to understand how the most qualified person to ever run for U.S. president lost to that disgusting moron.
But if I really want to try and understand what happened during the election, I need to go to the source: I need to hear what Hillary says.
I hope you get to read something lighter after this."Me: "I'll try.
I took Ms. Hilary Clinton with me to Europe in order to find out her perspective.
I was not expecting much as I did not think much of her but through reading this book my opinion for her has changed as well as feeling a lot of empathy for her difficult experience and the affection I feel for her policies, viewpoints and ways of being in the world.
Ms. Clinton is a very talented writer that guides the reader from beginning to end, her experience of the past presidential election.
It was like a punch in the gut to relive it, but it was also comforting and empowering to know Hillary's stance on why the election panned out as it did and how to move on from it.
This was sectioned off so well, and the balance between personal stories and others' research and talk about policy kept me engaged.
I listened to this on audio and there were several impactful moments because Hillary is its narrator, but I'm also finding myself grappling to remember details because I'm sure I would have read this much closer had I picked it up physically, which is why I removed .5 stars.
Yet, the complete Hillary, according to her, never surfaced and the world need to know who she really is.Instead of trying to explain my own feelings around the book, I would rather paste a word or two by theguardian.com's review:What Happened by Hillary Rodham Clinton review – entertainingly mean but essentially wrong-headedThe announcement of an autopsy by Hillary Clinton of the 2016 election raised a distressing possibility: the defeated candidate was back.
Her new book is more gossipy, it is meaner, more entertaining and more wrong-headed than anything she or her speechwriters have written before.The memoir aims to be a holistic tale of a complicated woman.
But too many people are telling her to be quiet.
And you know how I feel about telling women to shut up?
Luckily, HRC had a front row seat to it, and is probably the best person to tell us.ACTUAL REVIEW TIME This was as difficult to read as I could imagine.
But ultimately, this is why you should read this book:"I understand why some people don't want to hear anything that sounds remotely like 'relitigating' the election.
I've seen a lot of critics (mostly who haven't read it) that this is a book where HRC dodges the blame.
This book flies in the beginning, slows later on, but despite the vicissitudes, I couldn't put it down. I voted for Bernie Sanders in the presidential primaries, and his book,  Our Revolution , was the first I read about the election.The second related book I read more recently,  The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump , and it was like an infusion of sanity.What Happened feels like the third in a medicinal trilogy. It is healing to read a funny (the specifics of the phone and email stuff are laugh-o
It is healing to read a funny (the specifics of the phone and email stuff are laugh-out-loud funny!), articulate, sane person admit her flaws, take responsibility for most of them, introspectively process what happened, learn, and consider new policies and future actions in a more open way because of it.I am amazed by the reviews that say she blames everybody else for what happened.
Haven’t read this yet, obviously. But I’m giving it 5 stars so Trump supports don’t lower the overall rating. I personally, am interested to see what she has to say. I wish she was the current President and The US would probably be in a much better position. Anyways, I’m not going to ramble about my feelings about America’s screw up on here or how much I think she should have won the election.
9/12/17 Unlike some people - I'm actually going to wait until AFTER I read the book, to give it a rating. Imagine having enough free time to randomly rate a book they haven't (and probably won't) bother to read, simply to try and cancel out someone else's rating.9/14. Finished. Was it a perfect book? No. It went on a bit too long, and it seemed a little rambling at times. But, overall I found it to be insightful and moving.
I was a big supporter of Clinton in the 2016 election and am about 3/4 through the book because SHOCKER I WAITED UNTIL READING IT TO WRITE A REVIEW.
Bernie Sanders lost to her in the primary, published a book, and no one is asking him to go away (okay, I am in this review, but in the general political sphere, I haven't seen any vitriolic, hysterical calls for him to sit down and shut up) I pre-ordered her book along with millions of other people who actually wanted to hear what she had to say.
Or be prepared for the slings and arrows flying through the air when they do.I bought the book and read it because I wanted to see what sort of tone the author would set as she explained the myriad reasons for the essential end of her political career.
I wanted to discern whether any personal blame might make an appearance, even to a small degree.At the end, I came away with feeling a bit as if I’d read the last diary entries of Marie-Antoinette or Tsarina Alexandra, both women who could not seem to fathom the changing political, economic, and cultural tides swirling about them and eventually bring them down.
Comey said that although my State Department colleagues and I had not violated the law about handling classified information, we—all three hundred of us who had written emails later classified—were nevertheless “extremely careless.” He said the FBI had found that “the security culture of the State Department in general, and with respect to use of unclassified email systems in particular, was generally lacking in the kind of care for classified information found elsewhere in the government.” It was one thing to go after me, but disparaging the entire State Department was totally out-of-bounds and revealed how much age-old institutional rivalries between agencies colored this entire process.
