https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1949356.Introduction_To_The_Constitution_Of_India
Indian constitution is the largest written constitution of the world and it is difficult to read and understand everything.
However, at points where you feel Indian Constitution lacks something he is also critical of the same or explains why that is the case and you again start feeling that it is fine.After so much of trouble that the country had been facing - Anna Hazare's fast unto death campaign, Black Money case, 2G Spectrum, CWG Scam case - which had lead me to feel devastated and having lost my faith in the system and the law of the land, this book comes as a refresher and bring back the hope that Indian Constitution will act as a check on the government and other persons and will make everything better by asserting itself.
It should be read by every citizen of the country to know the Constitution (which is the basis of the laws of the land).
All these factors together make this book an indispensable text for any political science student or for those who are attempting competitive examinations like UPSC, SSC etc.Even though this book may seem dry and tiring to most, I myself paused reading this one several times and thus took almost a year to complete; but this is most authoritative text I have come across on this subject.
Overall, this text is a capsule of everything one will ever need to know about the Constitution of India for any competitive exams.Do give a thumbs up if you enjoyed reading this review or comment below if you would love to share your opinion.
Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles have been explained in much detail with the help of its history, amendments, working and several landmark judgement of Supreme Court.I loved last chapter of this book How Constitution has worked most where author has put his view on many sensitive issues of the constitution such as on large number of amendments, Bangladeshi infiltrators, demands of minority groups and vision of the constitution.Overall, it is a must read book for everyone who wants to know about the constitution of India, its working and most importantly about India.
I bought the book considering that it will just revisit all the articles, schedules and provisions contained in the Indian constitution.
But what the book got has really impressed.
It has very good interpretation of the constitution by Scholarly and impartial academician.
Though it is an Herculean task to interpret each and every article and provisions of the constitution the book does it in a neat and concise manner.
Finally as they say if you are preparing for Civils or if want to get a bit of gist of the legislative proceedings happening every day in India it is a must book to read.
This book is the epitome of the sovereignty of India. It provides a glimpse of what a free man in free India can do and should do.
Given the details the book holds as compared to the other books available in the same subject I would consider it best. But if preparing for any exam try to avoid this book .It's more like a bare Constitution.
One of the most simple and fast way to understand the fundamentals of the Indian Constitution, specially for the new-learners. It is the best source to understand exactly what the framers of the country wanted India to look like.
It is a very apt guide to Indian Constitution with crisp interpretations. The author has even provided some raw texts from the original Constitution document to make things more clear and transparent in analysis.
tough book to understand. dont start reading with this. helpful for students of public administration.
A magisterial piece of work.
must read for upsc examination contains the basic concepts of polity throughly
It also introduces you to the basic structure of parliamentary democracy, federalism, judicial system, union and state legislatures and public service commissions.The book clearly states the vulnerability that the Indian Constitution faces.
The book is good for understanding the power the constitution wields over the nation and its people, but what dissatisfied me a little was just the perfunctory references provided while explaining the content.
This is a good text to understand the most important document but it would be better if could specify a few things more and could elaborate on the parts that need a little more explanation.
Basu comes across as a passionate writer.
While most other writers of consequence on Indian constitution are dull and drab, the inherent strength of this book is the energy that the author has put in to defend the cherished ideals of the constitution.
Rather than merely encapsulate the summary of the constitution, Basu has infused his book with his own opinions.While the criticisms of the constitution are well addressed, it seems like a nationalist perspective  and we hardly come across a critique that has not been debunked.
I had read couple of books on the constitution, namely Subhash Kashyap and Lakshmikant, before stumbling upon this masterpiece.
Dr. Basu's book is by far the best work on constitution I've come across.
Dr. Basu has done a remarkable job of presenting the Constitution of India in a lucid manner, without compromising on the nuances of various legal interpretations.
This strategy will go a long way in making someone not with a law background, like myself, understand the constitution.
So get yourself a copy of this book and get on with it!
In my opinion, everybody should read the constitution.
Introduction to the Constitution of India is a fantastic book on the subject of Indian Constitution and presents a wonderful commentary on the same. It deals with everything and nothing substantial is left out. The language is simply beautiful which is least expected from an Indian academic author at university level.
This book is a must read for any one who is preparing for competitive exams like UPSC, BPSC etc. Basu sir has done a commendable job in writing a very detailed manuscript for the book. Chapters related to Fundamental rights is must read.
I read this as part of a course in college. The book's scope is way beyond what my course prescribed, but I read it anyway. Insightful comments by the author make this an excellent read.
my rating --- NA
its good one
its really charming finding out such book
Good
One simple word : FANTASTIC!
awesome
Best book to understand evolution of Indian Constitution till date, simple and yet very powerful analysis.
Best book to understand constitution of India.
A very good book detailing the constitution of India. It is must read for every Indian.
A detailed description of Indian Constitution. The pros and cons of different articles and the significance behind them.Brace up, its heavy!
There could be nothing more precise..The analysis of each and every article is just mind-blowing.
It has a tough language for basic learners of the Indian constitution.
This book is best book to understand Indian constitution comparing with constitution of other countries
