https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394425.27_Wagons_Full_of_Cotton_and_Other_Plays
I loved the writing and execution, I just didn't like the fact that the play ends without the husband coming to know of his wife's battery.2.
The Purification- it is a very lyrical and musical play centred on a family ravaged by incestuous passions, leading to the murder of the daughter of the family by her husband who cannot stand her brother's and hers passion for each other.
But the end reveals the letter to be just by her grandfather.I'm just waiting to get my hands on it again so that I can devour the rest of the plays.
Interesante obra de teatro corta del mismo autor de un tranvía llamado deseo. Como no he leído mucho este generó he preferido empezar con algo corto y la verdad es que la experiencia me ha gustado. No descarto embarcarme en algo de mayor envergadura ;)
3 1/2 stars
You want some dreamers? You've got it: "The Lady of Larkspur Lotion." How about a doomed romance? You've got that, too: "Talk to Me Like the Rain and Let Me Listen." You need sadism? mendacity? Southern gothic crassness? There's the titular play for all of that and more. In short, every one of Williams' signature elements appears here in short form via a one-act play. In a way, it's like a collection of snackable versions of his masterpieces plus a couple of oddballs to boot.
But reading these one act plays, for some reason it struck me how bound they seem to be to the American South in the blues/jazz era.
When I think of his plays, I feel sweat.
For the most part, these plays seemed more like character reveals than truly dramatic.
I may have been missing something, and might think differently about them if I saw them performed.
And the characters, for the most part, seemed to me like revamps of characters I had already seen in his other plays.
But then again, reading really is a bad way to get introduced to plays.

بسیاری از کارهای تنسی ویلیامز، از جمله نمایش نامه های تک پرده ای و کوتاهش در دهه ی سی، بعد از کودتا به فارسی ترجمه و اجرا شده.
یک آمریکایی هم بود که نامش را درست بخاطر ندارم (دکتر کویین بی؟) که در دانشکده ی ادبیات، انگلیسی تدریس می کرد، و برخی از آثار تنسی ویلیامز و آرتور میللر را در تالار فردوسی روی صحنه آورد، تقریبن بانی گروه تیاتر دانشگاه تهران شد، رکن الدین خسروی و حمید سمندریان هم در برخی کارها با او همکاری داشتند.
اجرای این آمریکایی از "نگاهی از پل" اثر آرتور میللر را بصورتی مبهم به یاد دارم.
Obviously with a collection of short plays there's gonna be some hits and misses, but there's enough good stuff in this that I highly recommend it. This Property is Condemned is heartbreaking, 27 Wagons is disturbing, and The Demolition Downtown was a big surprise, since it felt almost sci fi. I wasn't wild about The Last of My Solid Gold Watches or Steps Must be Gentle, but the writing was interesting enough that I stayed engaged throughout.
Short plays which are occasionally a bit more sketches than I would prefer. but there's still some quite strong writing involved. The best of the bunch are the stories 27 Wagons Full of Cotton and The Last of My Solid Gold Watches. Have to think about the rest. These short plays have Tennessee Williams' name written all around them. Very recognizable, the athmosphere is there all right.
27 Wagons Full of Cotton, The Purification, The Lady of Larkspur, Lotion, The Last of My Solid Gold Watches, Portrait of a Madonna, Auto-Da-Fe, Lord Byron's Love Letter, The Strangest Kind of Romance, The Long Good-bye, Hello from Bertha, This Property Is Condemned, Talk to Me Like the Rain..., Something Unspoken, The Unsatisfactory Supper, Steps Must be Gentle, The Demolition Downtown
The first time I read this book I was in high school and it has stayed with me ever since. One play in particular, "Talk to Me Like the Rain and Let Me Listen." As a Williams play, it's subtext is thick and weighty, it's nameless protagonist desperate like the rest of them.
"This Property is Condemned" is my all-time favorite short.
27 Wagons, The Lady of Larkspur Lotion, The Strangest Kind of Romance and Something Unspoken are must-reads.
This is a great collection of short one-act plays from the early portion of Tennessee Williams' career. Stunning in its range and the vibrancy (as always) of characters.
Contains This Property is Condemned.
27 Wagons is my absolute favorite Williams peice. It is dark, sad and desperate. What more southern drama do you need? Oh and the female lead is called Babydoll. Need I say more.
I played Vicarro in a stage version. One of my favorites.
Talk to Me Like the Rain and Let Me Listen is another of my favorite plays of all time. Love it.
Me encantó, me encanta Flora... me encanta todo ><
Only 'Portrait of a Madonna'
Someone, help! Every Tennessee play I read replaces the others as favorites and I'm only halfway through the semester!
GREAT!! dark southern gothic one-acts. the title play is spectacular.
I read this book when I was in my early teens and now (at 40) I still feel the mood of it...self-oppressing and teetering on the edge of a volcano. Very worth reading.
The best thing to read on mass transit. One act plays, who would have thought. It's like I'm at the theater everyday, and I'm not talking about my people's chariot co-pilots.
I'm a bit biased, since I acted in this. Still, I absolutely love the plot and the characters are incredible.
I got sent to the principal's office freshman year for reading this instead of "At Risk" (the book about the little girl who gets AIDS from a blood transfusion) in my English class. WTF?
