https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111180.Perfect_Match
What would you do if someone harmed your child?
And what would you do to protect them?These are the questions Nina Frost was faced with after she found out that her son, Nathaniel, was sexually abused.
Nina made a living as an assistant district attorney.
Her job was to prosecute the child molestors and rapists that preyed on little girls and boys.
How could Nina be so wrong?When I pick up a book by Jodi Picoult, I know I am being placed in capable hands.
If I could use one word to describe this book..
This was a gut wrenching novel to read.
Like many of Jodi Picoult’s novels you will have an internal debate on if justice through the court system is the best route.
This powerful novel has twists and turns right up into the last couple pages.
I did struggle with Nina’s character; because I found her to be a bit obnoxious and arrogant (know it all for sure).
However, as a group the characters were intriguing.
My quick and simple overall: be prepared that this is an emotionally powerful novel.
You’ll be entertained but you will have internal struggles of debate.
Picoult does such an incredible amount of research for every one of her books that, even if you don't like the story, you are guarenteed to come away with knowledge that could help you win "Who Wants to be a Millionaire".
Reading too many Picoult books can get kind of annoying, as they all follow the same basic formula - even though the end is supposed to surprise you, after awhile, you know what to expect.
Plus, the characters always get away with what they have done.
But there is a flaw in this book – Nina, commits murder in order to “protect” her sexually abused son from his abuser, and in doing so severely compounds the trauma suffered by him with the possibility that she may go to prison.
She didn't behave like a mother behaves, she is arrogant, she is selfish, she is a know all, and by the end of the book I thoroughly disliked her – in fact come the court room summing up my sympathies lay squarely with the prosecution.
reading the contents of my shampoo bottle was more riveting.
I hated this book, but I can't decide if it was the lame plot, overwrought characters or the horrible narrator. I can't believe I stuck with it till the end. I'm not going to waste anymore time on this book except to say that people do not smell like caramel or taste like sugar unless they just ate a donut.
classic jodi picoult. troubled family, hot debated issue, extremelly well written metaphors, a law suit and a twist ending .i'm at a point where i've read enough by jodi picoult to expect more or less what is going to happen next, however i still find myself devouring every paperback with her name on i can get my hands on in less then 24-hours time. the woman ,once again, delivers.
Quite simply he is totally unbelievable, and doesn't even seem that necessary to the story.The main character jumps to conclusions about who has abused her child and kills that person.
She didn't, although later in court, the fact that the DNA testing showed a match was held in her favour as proof that she had reasonably thought the abuser was the man she murdered.
She could easily have done it on the night she watched him through his lounge window, why do it in court?The conclusion, where it is revealed that her husband has murdered the true abuser is simply terrifying.
Got this in Costa Rica because there was nothing else remotely decent and figured that I'd enjoyed Sister's Keeper enough. However, was let down and just felt that this was hastily written and overly complicated. Plus, explored pretty much the same themes as before and did not do as good a job at exploring the shades of grey. Found myself more annoyed with the mother than anything else and not especially caring about the outcome...next!
Couldn't put it down.What does it mean to be a good mother?How far would you go in the name of love -- and justice?In the course of her everyday work, career-driven assistant district attorney Nina Frost prosecutes child molesters and works determinedly to ensure that a legal system with too many loopholes keeps these criminals behind bars.
In a heartbeat, Nina's absolute truths and convictions are turned upside down, and she hurtles toward a plan to exact her own justice for her son -- no matter the consequence, whatever the sacrifice.
She likes to read Jodi Picoult, as does her husband, and I have always sneered at Picoult books because they sound like Lifetime movies.
We were trying to find books in common, so she gave me three Picoult books to read, which I reluctantly took.
I've read books about motherhood before.
The characters sucked, especially Nina.
All the characters were one-dimensional.Everything was so BORING and STUPID.
This book was a perfect example of why I never read Picoult.
I still have the two other Picoult books she gave me, but I definitely need to cleanse my reading palate thoroughly before I pick them up.
Most of Picoult's novel are about extraordinary situations that seem like they've come straight from newspaper headlines, and this one is no different – the sexual abuse of a five year old boy by a person they trusted.
I don’t want to give any spoilers away but the author does raise some interesting questions in the novel regarding the issue of 'an eye for an eye' and just how far is too far to go when a parent is seeking protection and justice for their child.
Again I don't want to give away any spoilers, but I didn't like the ending of the novel.
Characters: Nina, Caleb, and Nathaniel FrostPatrickNot my favorite JP book.
The scenario didn't seem so plausible to me--I believe that sex abuse does happen; however, the scene described seem too contrived.
In her book the mom (also an attorney) murdered the man she believed raped she and her daughter in a home invasion.
Later it was revealed that she murdered the wrong person who is a vile individual.
In that book the mom felt horrible due to the murder.
In JP books the mom doesn't see overly upset when a wrong occurs that leads to a positive--Perfect Match, Change of Heart, The Tenth Circle.
I fell in love with [him] because of those hands, which can touch me as if I am a soap bubble certain to burst, yet are powerful enough to hold me together when I am in danger of falling to pieces.""You are only as invincible as your smallest weakness, and those are tiny indeed - the length of a sleeping baby's eyelash, the span of a child's hand.
Intenso!
I'm embarrassed by my not only enjoying Jodi Picoult in the beginning, but by how I seem to continue enjoying it even when she churns out stuff like this.
Which is exactly what the book club readers like, no?
(Fair play to Picoult for thinking of it.) What really riled me is this: (view spoiler)[ that the heroine (ha!
heroine!) gets away with the murder - even though it is committed in front of a couple of hundred of people in a court of law.
She gets away with it.
Will any of Jodi Picoult's beloved and annoying creations ever be put behind bars?
This was brutal. I had to finish it, but I have no excuse for starting it.
My all time favorite ofJodi Picoult's books.
It took me a long time to open a JP book simply because the subject matter she chooses makes me squirmy.
Most of us don't want to read a book about such an uncomfortable subject.
I have heard this from friends of mine too.
I have loaned it to several friends and they have loved it and I have always received the same comment "I couldn't put it down.
It was just so good!" I have only loaned it to women so far so I can't give a man's perspective.
Jodi Picoult is one of my all time favorite authors. I anxiously await her new books each year.It has been awhile since I read Perfect Match but it is a book that definitely stays with you. Painful to read at times but well written and difficult to put down once you start. You can tell that as usual Jodi Picoult has done her research. As with quite a few of her books dealing with a tough subject can make for some emotional moments for sure. Recommended
This book was well written and page-turning with a masterful plot. Picoult developed each character with suspense. However I was irritated with the main character, Nina...she was selfish and I often wanted to kick her. In this book I admired Attorney Fisher Carrington who seemed to be the only one exemplifying healthy relationships. He was a servant and savior. I wanted to give all the others therapy.
Tudo por amor tem uma premissa particularmente angustiante, em especial para quem é mãe de uma criança da mesma idade da que está no centro do enredo, que aborda o tema do abuso sexual de crianças e os respetivos traumas que causa na vítima e respetiva família.Nina Frost, a mãe, conhece os meandros da justiça porque é o seu ambiente de trabalho; sabe que a burocracia do sistema judicial beneficiará o agressor e deixará o seu filho exposto a traumas adicionais e, portanto, decide fazer justiça pelas próprias mãos.
If you've read one of Jodi Picoult's book then you've read "Perfect Match".
My friend gave me this book and its been staring at me for the last three months.
I decided to give the book a read and I don't know how I made it to the end.
It was such a classic Picoult read, filled with adultery, messy family drama, moral questions...
everything you could possibly think of was in this book.For me, the book felt over-written and just TOO much.
I mean, just how many topics can we cover in 450 pages?
I think I was more annoyed.
How far would a mother go to protect her child.Nina Frost, an Assistant District attorney goes beyond the justice system to avenge her son's sexual preditor. No one could see this coming.There are more twists and turns in the story, making it unforgettable.Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors.
The author clearly has an agenda against the husband and wants us to feel like Nina’s affair is justified.
He used elaborate metaphors and SAT words that no five year old kid would ever use.The most ludicrous part of the book was the ending.
(view spoiler)[She gets away with it because of the “love of her kid” or some BS like that.
Why does the author completely ignore the fact that she SHOT AND KILLED AN INNOCENT MAN!
(hide spoiler)]And THEN the next stupid twist reveals that (view spoiler)[the husband killed the REAL priest.
Now the kid has two murderous parents!
Picoult is my favorite author and all of her books seem to deal with some sort of moral or social dilemma.
Who hasn't imagined being a vigilante of justice in the event that your child was victimized?The book was written in first person from many of the characters points of view.
I quickly overcame that problem and was sucked into the heart of this story.
The characters were written with such depth; they really came to life for me as a reader.
It was too intense of a read for me to be able to do that.Another excellent book by Jodi Picoult.
I don't even know where to start on how terrible this book was.
It's laughable, the events that take place in the courtroom would never be allowed.
I would actually be reading and have to stop and say outloud to myself "I can't believe how BAD this book is".
Come on the ending, I would of enjoyed the book much more if her husband would of left her and she would of been sentenced to 20 years in prison that she had to serve.
And then the big twist in the end, what her husband did to the other priest!
(laughable)
This is my absolute favourite Jodi Picoult book. Although most people opt for 'My Sisters Keeper' and I don't blame them because that is amazing, I just think this book is so exciting- to a point where I read it in one sitting. Although many of Jodi's books have a 'shock' factor somewhere, that's partly why I love her writing, this was twist and turns all of the way through. The characters were so well developed and you could completely understand even when they behaved so erratically. It's a truly great book.
I am slowly making my way through the books I haven’t read by her and I got a whole bunch from the library that included Perfect Match.What I love about Jodi’s books is that she really makes you care about her characters - what Nina does is absolutely wrong, but her reasons for doing it are absolutely sound.
It obviously wasn’t all plain sailing, with other things coming out, but I was on Nina’s side the whole damn time.
So I felt a sense of justice by what Nina did, whether it was right or wrong.
Seamlessly, Jodi Picoult has pulled me out of my too-long reader's block and back into the track of hard-hitting emotions, too-often hushed issues, and one hell of a ride in Perfect Match.Nina Frost is a prosecutor in Maine who tries to balance being a mother to her five year old son, Nathaniel, and a lawyer seeking justice to help ease the pain of molested children.
So, when her son finally says a name, when they find his soiled underpants with dried semen and matched it to a man she thought they could trust, she took the matters into her own hands and did what every parent was wont to do: she protected her child the way she thought best.
It also suffers from the Picoult patented 'irrelevant love story in pursuit of humanizing an otherwise obnoxious character.' I really did not care about the prosecutor or his estranged son, nor were they developed enough to even be particularly relevant.I'm not a mother, so this book did not speak to me in quite the way it could to someone else, but you can see that Picoult is really writing from her heart.
The "mystery" was interesting, the moral dillema was intriguing, and the characters were fairly likeable.I had like 10 pages left when I got to work this morning, and those are of course the most stressful pages in Jodi Picoult books.
