https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/606448.The_Complete_Books
Most people seem to think of Charles Fort as the wacky guy who wrote about fish and other things falling from the sky (as per the lovely cover of this book), but he was actually more of a philosopher who used stories of fish falling from the sky to exemplify his philosophy.
Granted, these books are loaded with verbatim transcriptions of thousands of newspaper clippings, which are interesting to the encyclopedia nerd in all of us, but the parts when Fort is on his soapbox are full of fire and fun and might actually fundamentally change the way you view the world.
‘All things in the sky are pure to those who have no telescopes.’This book contains all four of Charles Fort’s books: ‘The Book of the Damned’; ‘New Lands’; ‘Lo!’; and ‘Wild Talents’.
‘By the damned’, wrote Charles Fort, ‘I mean the excluded.
We shall have a procession of data that Science excluded.’ And in these four books (or processions) we have a feat of recorded events of bizarre, strange and inexplicable anomalies for which science could not fully account.
Fort’s floating ‘Sargasso Seas’ in the sky as a means of sucking in and dropping of frogs (and other objects) is as good as any other explanation for frogs falling from skies during storms.
Fort's most well known work is The Book of the Damned, an interesting title.
For example for centuries it was an "established fact" or "established science" that rocks don't fall from the sky.
After all the "educated" asked "how would rocks get up in the sky in the first place?" So anyone who reported a meteorite was dismissed either as a lyer or mad.
You see there was not any need to look into it, rocks don't fall from the sky.From there we get into a collection and discussion of things that are of a more esoteric nature.
Charles Fort is a man who was not afraid to write books about phenomena that science has ignored for so long.
The Book of the Damned, Lo!, New Worlds, and Wild Talents all covering different phenomena he discovered in news papers.
The most known being items falling from the sky to strange disappearences and much more!Why do I love Charles Fort?
He does not expect you to believe what he writes, he tells you what he found and creates theories based on it.
Some of his theories are a bit farfetched but you can create your own.Charles Fort is a mixter or philospher, researcher, and skeptic.
What more is there to say about Charles Fort?
The man spent years combing through newspapers, scientific journals, and other publications, pulling out weird and anomalous tales.
Some are creepy, some are commonplace, some are just downright WTF?
The first book ("The Book of the Damned") is concerned mainly with anomalous falls of objects like fish, frogs, meat, and blood; the second ("New Lands") mainly mystery planets, anomalous celestial bodies, and what would become Ufology; the third ("Lo!") earthly phenomena, including cattle mutilations and cryptozoology; and the fourth ("Wild Talents") mainly concerns itself with psychic phenomena, people with bizarre physical abilities, and touches on vampirism.
Below you will find an assortment of highlights from The Book of the Damned pulled from the clipping file of my Kindle. Convenient, that. You can find the same super-version of the book as the one I read for free on Amazon. I'm still not sure if it's a best-of, Charles Fort's collected works, or what... There seems to be at least some content which doesn't match up with the text found on his four books as found separately.Anyway, back to the quotes:The data of the damned. I have gone into the o
To be fair, some of Fort's favourite theories were down-right bizarre, such as his insistence on imagining a realm above our own from which all the falling creatures and materials originated - what our own surface world would be, conceptually, for the "deep-sea fish with the sore nose", as in the last extract I quoted above.
The existence of such a place sounds no less ridiculous now than it did in the 1920s, but I think Fort's point was that his arbitrary explanations were just as good as the official ones offered by the scientific dogma of the time, which our present, widely-accepted, matter-of-fact world theories of today mirror.
I think my head might explode if I did, because of all the ideas he packs into these books.The Book of the Damned is my favorite, not just for all the cataloging of falls of fish, meat, black rains, red rains, aerial phenomena, etc., but also for the conceit of the Super-Sargasso Sea. New Lands deals largely with astronomical strangeness--planets that are there and then aren't there, meteors, unexpected lights on the moon, and connections between seismological events and the sky.In Lo!, Fort talks about more strange phenomena, including water falling on one specific area (on, say, a tree) for a period of time, but he also discusses the disappearance of the Marie Celeste, Holy Dancers, and people who disappear and reappear--or who just appear in an odd location.Finally, Wild Talents presents recurring phenomena, such as people in a city shot by unknown assailants--the "phantom sniper" of 1928, serial fires and spontaneous human combustion.
People who are interested in alternative theories for unexplained occurrences, like UFO or black rain, might enjoy these books, but I didn't.
I had read that Fort is one of the fathers of sci fi because of his insistence that there can be explanations for occurrences that can not be explained by science.
I got very tired of reading and reading and making very little progress because of the dense prose and the constant repetition.However, if you are interested in alternative theories (and some of what Fort mentions CAN be explained by science these days) and the origins of sci fi, you might want to read at least one of the books in this trilogy.
Fortean madness.
Stuck somewhere in the middle of it...
This is basically where the Weekly World News and Hellboy/BPRD got much of their inspiration from. Charles Fort is a controverisal writer whose beliefs, intentions and purpose are still very much for debate.Part of me highly doubts that Fort would approve of the Fortean Times that sprung from his literary lineage. I think Fort wrote largely to thumb a nose at the Scientific establishment--who at the time was smug without the mastery to back much of it up (I'm thinking of "Knickerbacker Institute" and how much of it seemed to be trial and error).
Gave up on this one. Although it had some great reports of strange and unusual things in it the writing and deliver around them seemed to make little sense and went in circles.
Couldn't get past 10% or so. Exhausting and unsatisfying.
Charles Fort was one of the most brilliant, original and eccentric voices in the history of the written word.
From the first line in "The Book Of The Damned," you know that you are reading something really different.
Fort should have been a truly influential literary figure, but his unconventional nature prevented that from happening.
He filled his books with these tidbits, and the scientific world's ridiculous responses to them.
He also was the first one to tabluate strange falls (frogs, blood, fishes, stones, etc.) from the sky and cases of spontaneous human combustion.
Fort is a one-of- a-kind literary dynamo that should never be forgotten.
An omnibus of four books in which he writes about anomalous and bizarre occurrences.
He covers mostly organic things falling from the sky in The Book of the Damned.
Things like falling frogs, fish, flora of various types.
His clever wit comes through as does his lack of trust in religion and scientists.New Lands covers mostly inorganic occurrences of stuff falling from the sky.
Hail with the likeness of Christ on each piece, a fall of white pebbles, meteors...Wild Talents covers oddities such as things catching fire in the presence of a particular person as well as spontaneous human combustion.
Interesting stuff.Lo!
delightfully anti-scientific (in a good sense), beautifully written, and wickedly funny
Non-fiction
Maybe the most important books written in the last 100 years, but probably not. Everyone must read this.
Christmas present from David. :)
Incredibly entertaining nonsense. He is so out there you wonder if he was insane.
You cannot call yourself a Fortean without reading the complete works. Hard work, but worth the time.
this guy should be an american hero
