https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6261522-the-body-finder
scary thriller + yummy romance = book that made me miss my subway stop. yes. it's that good.
I could tell Derting was attempting to make Vi seem like an “regular girl,” but in all honesty, Violet’s attitude was simply disgusting because not only was she nothing special, but she was cruel and mean and full of hate.
She made fun of girls who were dependant on her “hot” best friend while, and I quote, “She [Violet] needed Jay to go with her.
He won’t own up to his obvious feelings for Violet (P.’s case is not so as he adamantly screams he loves me), he has issues when she does her own thing and talks to other guys (ahh, you see my story come into place?), and he is a total jerk (I think P.
Also, I found it somewhat disappointing that there wasn't even a list of suspects, so that I as a reader had no possibility to guess who the murderer could be.For a serial killer book, I didn't find it creepy at all, and I missed being on the edge of my seat with a constant feeling of suspense while reading certain scenes.
I really like it when my main character has a brain, so I was very happy about that.Now, on to one of my favorite aspects of The Body Finder: Violet and Jay!
I love those tension filled scenes and The Body Finder was full of them!
The confusion and jealousy associated with falling in love with your best friend, who is suddenly very good looking and a bit of a stud, was spot an as well!Ratings (Out of 10):Plot: 10Characters: 10Writing style: 10Romance: 10!Originality: 10Total: 50/50 (A!)I think Kimberly did an wonderful job blending the different aspects of The Body Finder.
I think that if these risks were actually taken with the story (specifically a trick played near the end) it would have made for a more gripping read.My main gripe with this novel is the relationship between Violet and Jay. Honestly, they did not have personalities outside of each other.
Jay, of course, can just cast this girl aside very rudely for Violet and it's viewed as ok, romantic even, because she is a bitch/slut/walking talking bag of evil.
But suck it did.Derting's book has an interesting premise; her main character, Violet, can sense the location of murder victims.
When she's not obsessing over Jay, Violet is disturbed by the reports of missing girls in her community, but the disappearances only become real once she finds a body.At this point, the novel takes a nose dive.Here, as readers, we are introduced to a random chapter from the point of view of the killer.
In this case, the killer is used to build suspense and cause readers to constantly fear that this time he's got Violet in his sights .
Whole scenes are told to you instead of actually occurring in a way you can read about them.
This interactions are unimportant, at least according to the author, because you are given summary after summary rather than any actual scenes.
It was very annoying.Derting also lacks any real understanding of serial killers or crime scenes, or you know police procedures.
Anyone old enough to read content about a serial killer murdering teenage girls will not be drawn into the writing quality here.Edit: I made a friend who annoyed me read this book when she lost a bet...
I can't help but think of books in this similar genre in Adult fiction which pack a lot more punch, and maybe it's unfair to compare a YA novel with Adult thrillers, but it fell a little flat for me - there was nothing original or surprising about the killing/investigation part of the story.The book really was more about Jay and Violet.
We are told he and Violet are best friends, told he is hot and then watch for a good quarter of the book how half the girls in the school are falling all over him.
Unfortunately, there are sooo many reasons I disliked this book, that I don't even know where to begin :( So, rather than writing a proper review, I'm just making a list of issues, starting with:Violet's "power" We learn that Violet, the protagonist, has the ability to sense dead people & animals.
So Violet then feels incredibly uneasy until the dead person/thing has been buried in consecrated ground (leading her to construct a pet cemetery of sorts, so that she may put to rest various dead animals she comes across.) Sorry for the long explanation, but I just don't buy this supernatural power.
This book left me speechless!!!!!Okay, I think I am composed enough to write this review now.
Then just two days ago, my friend (VEE, seriously...YOU ROCK SISTER....okay Shreya you too....before I get yelled at!!)had reminded me of this book.
It was mesmerizing, intense, suspenseful, romantic, haunting...but I absolutely loved every minute of it!!!!!SYNOPSIS:Violet Ambrose is grappling with two major issues: Jay Heaton and her morbid secret ability.
Jay Heaton, her best friend since childhood was in love with her.
Yes, reading The Body Finder is as painful as having my teeth pulled out one by one.Get the picture now?You may want to know, just how bad The Body Finder actually is?Well, let me tell you one thing: You just know something must have gone terribly wrong with a book when you would rather read about an evil serial killer kidnapping and hurting innocent girls than reading about how the "heroine" is getting on with her daily life.See that guy's pissed off face and the dude in the back's middle finger?
I reacted to this book in the exact same way.And why would everyone be so excited about Kimberly Derting's supposedly *original idea* about a girl who has the special ability to find dead bodies?I mean, hello Violet Ambrose; you are a Body Finder, you can sense and locate corpses, right?
If I were to compile a list of the times characters in books make ridiculously stupid decisions, Violet Ambrose would fill several slots in the top 40 or so. There are at least 10 conversations in this book about how Violet should never go anywhere alone and they ALL end up with her being somewhere alone almost directly after each one. I wanted to punch her in the face. But, as you can see, I gave it three stars. Why? Well, mostly because Jay is a pretty adorable character. I liked their friends
If I were to compile a list of the times characters in books make ridiculously stupid decisions, Violet Ambrose would fill several slots in the top 40 or so.
I'll probably read the next one...(view spoiler)[Edit: I just realized that even though this book is half crime novel (half teen romance), we never even learn the names of either of the killers.
(or if there is, we don't read about it) And cops don't build a case in a day.
(hide spoiler)]I still enjoyed the story, but the crime part of it was too hurried and not realistic enough.
And, right this minute, I would gladly give up either of my children to have another book featuring Violet and Jay to read right...this...minute.Okay, end of maniacal gushing about how awesome this book is.THE BODY FINDER has to be one of the most unique YA books I've ever read.
Ms. Derting doesn't do that - her story is scary, sexy, emotional, and downright riveting at all times; she never "writes down" to the teen or young adult who will pick up the book.Pre-order THE BODY FINDER now, today, right this second.
The blurb sent to the editor: “The romance and the mystery in The Body Finder were intense enough that I didn’t know whether to hold my breath or scream. I did know I wouldn’t be getting anything done until I read the whole book.”
This book is readable & will probably appeal to some teens.
That makes me sad.Sorry to those of you who liked it, but this book has more flaws than I can count.
That made it a huge let down after building suspense around every other male in the book.However, where I give the mystery a C+, I have to give the romance in the book a C- or maybe even a D.
Sadly, someone will probably make a movie of this unworthy book.
Why is this book rated so highly?
All I read was a boring and undeveloped typical YA PNR.
The protagonist was a walking blob with no personality and almost as dull as that chick from Fallen.
The only redeeming factor I found was Jay, who is the only character the author seemed to have put much effort into.
The mystery was an absolute fail, and I was not creeped out in the least.
Does laughing hysterically at the stupidity of this count?That's all I have to say.
I got this for $1.99; you get what you pay for, I guess.
Violet is a normal high school student in every way but one: She can find the imprint of dead people and she can sense people that have had contact with the dead.
At a party by the lake, Violet and her best friend Jay find one of the killer's victims in the lake.
Let me say a few words about Jay. Jay is the perfect best friend and later on the perfect boyfriend, probably too perfect to be realistic.
Their relationship moves from best friends to boyfriend/girlfriend through the book, with a few annoying hiccups due to the usual miscommunications.
And the point of view chapters from the serial killer added a creep factor like no other ya novel I've read!
It was enough to make afraid to be out alone at night...!I loved the relationship between Jay and Violet.
It really balances out that whole creepy serial killer part.The Body Finder is just an outstanding read, I can't think of anything that I didn't like.
The characters were realistic and intriguing, and I especially loved the duo of Jay and Violet.
The plot was engaging...
mysterious and managed to throw in a few plot twists in there I never anticipated.Bottom line...
It was an escape from reality and it was a change of pace-it came at the perfect time.He reached out, capturing her hand in his.
Not only that, the characters in question of being corny (i.e. the best friends and oh-so-present-enemies) were actually likeable.
It's hard to explain, but it's like when the author gives you a play by play of what's going on instead of letting you decipher what it all means and then adding a quote at the end of the explanation in response to what's 'happened'.
You know, books like these really make me stop and ask book lovers like myself a really important question.
WHY OH WHY DID IT TAKE ME SO LONG TO READ THIS?
This book has been sitting on my shelf now for months.
I remember it being on my to-read list for god knows how long and how excited I was to read it but after I bought it, I just didn't pick it up again.
And now that I have read it...I have to say that I am amazed!I mean, when I first started reading this, my rating for the book
And now that I have read it...I have to say that I am amazed!I mean, when I first started reading this, my rating for the book was like a four and I was only mildly impressed by what I was reading.
I can't stop asking myself why why why did I wait so long to read this book and I'm just so excited to get my hands on the sequel, Desires of the Dead, which is out in my bookstore so I'll be getting that in a few weeks.
I consider the main theme of this book to be Priorities Out of Whack, or Which Story Am I Reading?Story 1: Violet has the ability to find dead things, especially things or people that have been murdered.
In this book, it's whether or not Jay likes Violet, whose car is more fashionable, what her friends are thinking, ad nauseum.
175.To all the ladies and girls out there: No, rage, fury, and violence does not mean he cares about you.
Violet and Jay are one of my favorite couples of all time and really I could squee and gush about them forever.The story is far from simple.
Sometimes I get tired of reading books where the main gift in the story is secret, this was a nice change for me.
I also liked how we got to see Jay and Violet grow together throughout the book.
Did I mention that I really like Jay yet??!!I think everybody should try this book, it has everything imo, murder, mystery, love, and snark what more could you ask for??
The body finder had everything I look for in a book; a little bit of romance and not only were the main characters amazing and the plot intriguing, but Kimberly Derting's writing style really added to the thrilling side of the novel.
I really enjoyed the romance within the book and liked how it wasn't insta love or rush and how it intertwined with the plot.
It wasn't just what Kimberly Derting had written, it was the style in which she had written it, in such a descriptive way that added to the haunting and thrilling aspect of the plot.
Someone warned me I would fall for Jay. They were right. What a sweet "first love" story (with lots of kissing!). Add a horrific murder mystery and a new paranormal mythology, and it was definitely a page-turning fun read. I'm definitely buying the sequel!
So, I took my 14 year old daughter, and read some of the dialogue between the two main characters (both in their teens).
The book seemed like many of the suspense books I read years ago.
I guess if you are in your teens, this book would be original because you have nothing to compare it to.
I also thought this would be a great book for first time readers (kind of like how Twilight introduced many pre-teens to reading) because its writing is very simple and it would hold the interest for young readers.
A great and original novel, with a strong female protag and a believable romance!
Isn't Jay the perfect boyfriend ever?
:D I just LOVED the romance in this book.
It felt real for once, you get know why Vi loved Jay - and it was not just a silly crush over his messy hair, or deep eyes or any other thing like that - and you get to love him too for being such a sweet guy.
That's because he is so nice to her, always supportive, understanding her (no need for words) and so romantic, and funny..
They are perfect for each other and you get to feel that.
For the first time I felt in
Isn't Jay the perfect boyfriend ever?
It felt real for once, you get know why Vi loved Jay - and it was not just a silly crush over his messy hair, or deep eyes or any other thing like that - and you get to love him too for being such a sweet guy.
perfect :)The suspence/mistery part was great too (not so dark anyways) and I liked the chapters from the "hunter"'s perspective.
5 stars already, yeah, it's a great book.I just need more, can't wait for the sequel!PS: did I say how much I liked Jay?
Despite this morbid ability, Violet has always had the support of her family and her best friend, Jay. But now there is a serial killer loose in town, one that is killing young girls like Violet.
People describe this book as being fifty percent romance, fifty percent paranormal, but I think it was more like sixty percent Violent pining over Jay, thirty percent sappiness, and ten percent worrying about actual concerns.
I would have liked it if it was edgier, the romance was a subplot, and there to be more action/suspense.
And then Violet almost got herself killed because she made the dumbest decision in the entire world that no one would ever, ever make if they knew there was a serial killer after them.
I can't be the only person on the planet who read up on Jack The Ripper and various other serial killers just because you want to know what makes them tick, what happened to them that led to becoming somebody who craves to torture, to murder, to satisfy their sick needs and to do what they do.I loved the romantic scenes between Jay and Violet, but seriously, how daft and ignorant can a person be?
