https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148205.M_Y_T_H_Inc_Link
His growing up signifies his development which is nice and dandy, but he grew up to be a boring person and an asshole to boot.
He became a president of a company and being an asshole comes with the job, but this does not make it any more entertaining to read.I did not like multiple POVs. Skeeve (the teen) was the sole narrator before and his outlook on life really shined.
Here some of the POVs are quite boring.
This is my second time I read this book and it did not become better on the reread.
The previous books have all been told from Skeeve's POV, but this one branched out and gave some time to characters like Chumly, Guido, and Masha.
I liked the change as we got to see things from a few different perspectives and the new POV characters got a chance to develop even more.
There was even a shock POV character to finish the book with!
I was not all happy as it seems Skeeve himself is developing in a negative direction.
Hopefully we will get the nice guy Skeeve we all love back in the next book.
This was another fun installment in the Myth series. I really enjoyed the new POVs, all of characters I love. It was a bit strange that there were several small cases resolved instead of a single huge one but it was not at the expense of the overall quality of the book.
Very unsatisfying.
This book is more episodic with the structure focused around Skeeve being the president of MYTH INC and assigning jobs to other characters.
We then see those characters carry out their missions with narration that is from their perspective.The most interesting story featrure Tananda with narration from Chumley, at least in this story we enter into a mysterious dimension.
The only other story that was really worth a read was narrated by Gleep, Skeeve;s pet dragon who we learn is very intellegent just unable to speak.The rest of the book is really just filler giving the reader the feeling that this book is just setting the stage for the next one.
Con: Robert Asprin will scatter open-ended threads, cliff-hangers, and tangle plot lines over more books for more income.
Pro: The accumulated company of Magical Young Trouble-shooting Heroes, aliens from alter dimensions, narrate in turn with distinct voices on each new case.
Remember when, How you've changed, ending on a cliff, hooks intended to addict us to the series, instead distract and annoy me.
Doyle couldn't kill Holmes.
Just as Doyle never intended Sherlock Holmes to be forced into a troublesome time-line, I prefer to enjoy each MYTH case on their own merits.
With this book it now comes from multiple points of view, from the various different characters we have met in the other books.
Whilst there is still humour, it seems to have been diluted due to this, and these stories individually are not as good as the previous books which are each dedicated to a separate adventure.The different points of view do work however, as the reader gets to see more of the individual characters.
There are further developments to the character of Skeeve, but rather than me tell you about them I will let you discover them for yourself.The good news is that I am still enjoying the series, even though the books seem to be getting shorter.
M.Y.T.H. Inc. Link is a departure from previous Myth books in that it features narrative from the points of view of Skeeve’s team members.
That is, the members of Skeeve’s team (M.Y.T.H. Inc., as it were) get to narrate their own portions of the story.
That’s an interesting departure and probably was real groovy for Asprin but it makes the story a little disjointed.
Asprin made it work with narratives from Skeeve interspersed with the team’s contribution but it’s not the smooth flowing diatribes of Aahz and Skeeve.
All the same, it’s definitely interesting to see things from other folks’ points of view and it does work.
This book is where the series makes a significant format change, but I can’t say I dislike the experiment.
I’m a sucker for the execution of Gleep’s story, and really look forward to seeing more of those.This book takes the hint from the end of Myth Marker about Skeeve becoming more unlikeable and drills deep into it, and highlights that from multiple perspectives from his associates.
Then we see Skeeve realize and accept this, and sets up the next couple books for him to correct his course.
This is clearly a middle act with significant darkness, and I look forward to seeing where it goes.
The first six books of the series follow apprentice wizard Skeeve and his mentor Aahz as they have misadventures across different worlds and dimensions.
This allows for some good changes of pace, and seeing the other characters as being capable in their own right is a breath of fresh air.As such this book provides provides momentum to the series just before it starts to become stale, and gives range and substance to all of the characters
In a series with, now, so many characters and so much characterization and worldbuilding left relatively unfinished, Asprin makes a clever move in pausing with what initially looks like a simple collections of shorts from the perspectives of his side characters, placed within the frame of Skeeve-as-MYTH-INC-president. The many narratives do, in fact, eventually form one, and although this is not remotely Asprin's most tidy narrative, it establishes a much-needed new-normal before moving on to business-as-usual storytelling.
In this book, author changed his way of writing. Story was more divided, and story was told not only from Skeeves perspective, but also his companions. There were two great parts: one about Tananda and second about Gleep. I always took Gleep for a dog-like creature. I really impressed me, when I found out how intelligent and capable he is. I finished this book in a day (mostly same as other Myth books) and right away started another one.
Okay, I did enjoy this new perspective in the Myth series, but, I have to admit, I really can't stand reading some of the character's accents. Sometimes, it is hard to follow in that regard. I will say that this book did give me a new love for some of the characters I didn't quite connect with before, like Guido. And who knew Gleep had so much going on? It is fun to switch it up in such a long series, but I did appreciate switching back to the only-Skeeve POV in the following book.
I'm lukewarm on the book. The focus was on Guido, one of the gangster heavies that is part of Skeeve's entourage, but there seemed to be several plots going on that became really confusing. Still, it was enjoyable.
I accurately remembered the self-indulgence of the puns, and the flimsiness of the plots... I'd forgotten the puerile and thoughtless sexism. Sadly, the author just doesn't consider the internality or psychology of female characters. It's really a pity.
I enjoy seeing from all the different perspectives in this one. I also found it interesting that there were several more serious idea brought out, not just cleverly amongst the humor, but in a more straightforward way. Lots of character development.
A fun look at the story from the perspectives of the minor characters.
Essentially loosely connected short stories. Probably fun if you're invested in the series. Provides stories written in the voicings of side characters from the Myth series.
Gleep actually had a "speaking" part!!! I was excited!
I really enjoyed the new POVs presented here (especially Massha's and Gleep's). For me, the books kept fluctuating between 3 and 4 stars, mostly due to my exasperation with Skeeve's specialness (which led to other characters not getting enough to do/not being developed enough because Skeeve was the only actual star of the show), so this one was a pleasant surprise. I wish we could have Tananda's and Bunny's POVs as well.
Towards the end is an interesting tale from Gleep, a dragon’s eye view of the team, and how some people tend to have trouble spotting what is right in front of their noses.Notes for the reader: In this story, this author takes the emotions of his characters seriously.
The characters don’t just race through the story full of action without emotion.
While the first few times, it is a shock to the system to actually read of a character having an emotion, soon, it just becomes an enhancement to the story.
That feeling holds true in my re-read, as well.As I mentioned in my last review, Skeeve is the heart of the group, the one who holds them all together, and the stories are just more interesting when told from his perspective.
Skeeve doesn't feature in the four stories that comprise this book, so there's not much he could have told, but the other books talk of other adventures that took place in between, so why not take the same approach here?
The seventh Myth Adventures book, and the first to deviate from Skeeve-only narration.
The gang has now gone corporate, with Skeeve as president and delegator; as jobs come in, the various characters narrate their part.
Leaving aside the preachiness that is the hallmark of the series, this is another solid entry, amusing in all the right places and strong on character development.
With a slow build-up to the final dramatic reveal, this book sees Asprin in firm control of the series.
This must be the weakest entry in the series so far.
Despite the welcome mainstays in the series - one-liners, banters, absurdities in the universe that reflect our own society - this book more or less feels like a collection of short stories.
While I welcome this widening in scope as far as the narrative is concerned, I still think it would be more interesting and entertaining to follow one (maybe two) coherent and connected storylines.
MYTH INC Link felt more like a novella or a novelty entry in the series and I hope that Asprin returns to form in the next one.
It takes a little while to adjust to the new point of view of this story.
After I got used to it, I found that I did like this point of view, but not as much as when the story is told by Skeeve.
The hardest time adjusting to this new point of view was when I was reading Aahz's Tale.
The most surprising story is Gleep's Tale.
Overall, M.Y.T.H. Inc. Link is a nice addition to the Myth series, but I do prefer the Skeeve point of view.I rated this book a 7 out of 10.
That took a lot of getting used to, and a bit of replacing words on my part (youse for you guys, as an example).It also didn't seem quite as connected as the previous books.
At any rate, this one felt a bit more...loose, I guess is the word I'm looking for...than the previous six books.
It was still interesting and entertaining (Guido's antics on the warehouse floor were definitely entertaining!), but I found myself longing for the regular Myth books, and a mess that required Skeeve and Aahz's particular talent for mischief and mayhem to counteract.
When Skeeve formed the company M.Y.T.H. Inc he thought his troubles would fade away, or at least be shared.
The fracturing of the group is made more evident in this book and Skeeve himself has turned into a first class twat.
Asprin has clearly realised that he needs to vamp up the series because he can't rest on his laurels unless he either introduces new characters or changes the way he brings the story to us.
In M.Y.T.H. Inc. Link Asprin changes his style to sharing the narration of the books to various characters rather than simply giving us Skeeve's view.
Un šinī grāmatā beidzot nopietnāk parādās arī pūķis Glīps, ko gaidīju jau labu laiku, un jāsaka ka viņa iesaistīšana stāstā ir krietni aizraujošāka, nekā biju gaidījusi, lai gan tagad šāds risinājums šķiet loģisks.Tiesa gan, ne visi stāsti bija vienlīdz interesanti, bet tuvāk iepazīt visus varoņus bija aizraujoši.Katrā ziņā šķiet, ka autors beidzot ir izlēmis, ko iesākt ar visu šo sēriju, kas līdz šim vairāk sastāvēja no dažādām amizantām epizodēm, toties tagad jau sāk izskatīties pēc nopietna stāsta, kas virzās uz noteiktu mērķi, par ko es jūtos visnotaļ sajūsmināta.
It's also interesting to get different perspectives on the same events.That said, it seems odd for all the missions to be sequential: if you're splitting up the team, why not have them working on different jobs at the same time?
Also, Guido and Nunzio were assigned to Skeeve by the Mob as his bodyguards, but how can they do that job if they're nowhere near him?(view spoiler)[The main theme of this book is that Skeeve has changed, and I agree with the other characters (notably Aahz) that this isn't a change for the better.
(hide spoiler)]
Seventh in a series I like and recommend, but start from the beginning.What I liked: We get stories told by other characters, not Skeeve-based.
What I didn't like: This reads like several short stories that were published elsewhere and then thrown together here.
I also did not like Gleep's story, which was terribly predictable (guess what - Gleep is really super-intelligent and considers Skeeve to be *his* pet!) and thenb terribly silly (counterfeit comic books?
That's the best you got?).Here's to hoping the next book goes back to being excellent instead of what we got here.

