https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123848.The_Chrysanthemum_and_the_Sword
The work consisted of reading the secondary literature on Japan, noting things she didn't understand, interviewing Japanese Americans, taking them with her to watch Japanese films and asking them to explain why the plots seemed so strange, reading novels, school books and memoirs - from one of these she cities the daughter of a samurai family who allowed in a missionary school a patch of garden to grow what ever she likes, experiences wild joy at planting potatoes while all her school-fellows plant flowers.As you probably have guessed the downsides of this book are exactly the same as its positives - it was written at a particular time, for a particular purpose drawing on limited sources, and the end result now is not only seventy years on, historical but also circular.Specifically from 1868 there began in Japan the Meji restoration which swept away the old shoguns and aimed to make the Emperor the central figure in Japanese life, prior to this the Emperors had spent several centuries as ceremonial figures, dependant sometimes on handouts or selling samples of their calligraphy in order to make ends meet.
Very different from the Japan of today.
As far as I can tell, Benedict is most on point about hierarchy and the past importance of the emperor.
The ideas of social obligations and debts are elaborately described, although I'm not so sure if that's uniquely Japanese.
Although that in itself might be inadvertently one of Benedict's unique points, in that she was among the first to recognize some commonalities between different groups instead of viewing them as an inscrutable alien race.
One of the greatest books on Japanese culture out there, and still very relevant today. If you love Japan or are simply interested to know more about this fascinating country, The Chrysanthemum and the Sword is a must-read and re-read.
It is essential reading.Benedict is an anthropologist -- though I've read a good amount of anthropology, I had never read Patterns of Culture.
She is brilliant..., and humane.It is not necessarily the case, of course, that everything she writes about Japan is entirely correct -- though her general approach must be right.
But books like this really do transcend particular pages and footnotes.There is a lot of facile criticism of this book -- criticizing her for using the distinction of shame/guilt, for viewing Japanese culture through the lens of kinship structures, and so forth.
Forget the critics -- like many such books, she puts them to shame (pun intended).
'If you utter one cry,' he told him, 'you will die in a way that at least will not be shameful.'"Yeah, but I'm suspicious of what Count Katsu was doing with a dog at his testicles."Within the reign of the present Emperor, a man who had inadvertently named his son Hirohito – the given name of the Emperor was never spoken in Japan – killed himself and his child."I love it, but I struggle to believe it.
3.75 starsFirst published in 1946, this 13-chapter classic "The Chrysanthemum and the Sword" by Dr Ruth Benedict having never been to Japan herself has still inspired and informed its readers more as one of the 'Nihonjinron' books (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nihonjinron) popularly written, published and read after World War II.
This formidable study "reprinted over fifty times" assigned by the US Office of War Information was "to spell out what the Japanese were like" (back cover) by means of all the techniques of which she was capable as a cultural anthropologist.
Could a treatise on an entire country and its people, no matter how beautifully worded and presented, be objective if...a) the author of the said treatise didn't live in that country b) the author is from the victorious country (Who was it who said that history is written by the victors?)c) the country being analyzed was, in many years of its history, closed to the outside world (Was it James Michener who claimed that Japan had put up one of the most effective iron curtains in the history of mankind?)?Perhaps I should also add that ...d) the author didn't speak the language of the said country.
Over two decades here in Japan and I still get lost in Shinjuku Station, never mind the biggest hospital in my neighborhood.) Still...this one gets a good rating from me.
Also, despite its distinctive culture, Japan shares with other East Asian countries the philosophy of Buddhism and Confucianism which integrate so deeply in those countries' social life.
Moreover, the Western perception of the Eastern exposes the deep root of Western culture to level of daily life which I couldn't penetrate when studying Western Tradition and Challenging of Modernity, two courses about the development of Western ideologies.
In short, I recommend this book for East Asian students who are taking courses about Western culture or sociology.
It's paradoxical but you will understand what I mean when you read this book.

Excellent. Proper review to come, after I’ve gone through it again and made notes at all the places I’ve marked - the book is bulging with post-its.
However, many of her observations about the Japanese no longer hold true, since Japanese culture has changed so much since WWII.
In particular the analysis of societal obligations is no longer valid in my opinion, although I think there are traces of this legacy even today, but not to the extent that Benedict writes about.
One of my Japanese colleagues felt that a particular question was reinforcing Japanese stereotypes and said, “That sentence looks like it was written by Ruth Benedict!” So I’m not sure how the book has been received by the Japanese themselves, but I have seen references to it by other Japanese anthropologists and observers.
Although it must be said that the Japanese did adopt a multitude of things from the Chinese as Kanmu was a great admirer.The overall knowledge level and assuredness of the text is not there as she constantly has to state a colleague or friend informed her and she freely admits to never visiting Japan.
Also while I realise it was just after the war, the book talks about America far too much and a little too pro-American for a book discussing another culture.That said the knowledge she draws from other books is quite decent and the section on ON is very interesting and worth a read.Ultimately this is a book for those who have a vision of Japan that does not exist anymore and those who actually know very very little about East Asian culture, those even semi-versed should turn elsewhere.
ASTONISHING how this book taught me so much about Japanese culture that 1 year and 4 months living here hadn't yet fully showed me.....Usually strictly informational books don't grab me this much, but I was entranced with each sentence, read most of it open-mouthed, and I copied down so many quotes that by the end I had a book of my own!!
I strongly recommend this to anyone with an interest in Japanese society, and especially how it opposes Western thinking.
I recommend it even MORE strongly to those also living in Japan and experiencing our differences first-hand.
I read this book in Japanese because it seemed difficult to read even in Japanese, so I thought it would be even more difficult to read the original work in English.I wanted to know how the Japanese culture was viewed by Americans.It was weird to learn how we the Japanese are through an analysis done by a foreigner who had never visited Japan, but her account was very clear and mostly accurate.
Nhưng thôi, mình sẽ không lạm bàn về vấn đề này nữa vì mình thấy bản thân cũng không hiểu quái gì về văn hóa Nga, Nhật lẫn Mỹ cả :<<<< Kiểu độc giả "ghế bành" gặp tác gia - nhà nhân học "ghế bành" thì là xứng lứa vừa đôi quá rồi ^^Hoa cúc là biểu tượng có nhiều ý nghĩa trong cả văn hóa tinh thần lẫn vật chất của người Nhật.
However, even I can see that, while the Japan of today with its fashion trends, popular culture and violent pornography is different to the Japan of 70 years ago, there are also aspects that have remained similar if not the same, for example in terms of respectful customs.I confess myself greatly disappointed by the lack of time spent on the acts of violence committed by the Japanese soldiers during World War II.
When Benedict talked of the prisoners of war, I thought she was heading in that direction, but ultimately, the subject of the violent ways soldiers were trained and the acts of atrocities that were committed toward Chinese and Korean women especially was never touched on at all.
It seems the author was pulled into the war effort as a sort of military anthropologist - Japanese military decisions were so difficult for the Allies to understand that they needed academic help!It's amazing what a different world she paints.
Japan was within one lifetime of being forced out of isolation at the time, and she really shows the link between their World War II thinking and their old ways.
I don't think modern Japanese culture is like this at all, but you can see the links.It's also interesting what she implies about American culture, especially because there was apparently quite a debate on how to handle the occupation of Japan.
The history part was informative and interesting to some extent, but the explanation of Japanese people's behavior was just too condescending IMO.
I'm currently living in Japan, and I don't think much of it is accurate.
I daresay the book is heavily outdated.It got sooo boring at the halfway mark, it was taking me forever to make progress.
After putting me sleep for several weeks, I finally decided to quit on this book.
The fact that the version I read had so many typographical errors didn't help one bit.Read it for the history part only if you want, but there will definitely be better options available.
Anyone who has associated with the Japanese people would find this book interesting.
The author wrote this book without visiting Japan as part of the MacArthur occupation after WWII, and yet it is still an exceptional effort to define the cultural forces at work on the Japanese before WWII, and perhaps still.
I appreciated the book as I have some history in dealing with the Japanese and always found their behavior and attitudes to be unfathomable.
This book helped in retrospect.
I recommend it as part of any study a person wishes to undertake of Japanese culture.
A very detailed account of Japanese culture that was praised by Yukio Mishima for capturing the essence of Japan and the explanation behind what may seem to any American "strange" and even "brutal" codes of living. A must read for anyone interested in Japan. Although he is not mentioned in the book, it brings an understanding of Yukio Mishima's self-torture, eccentricity, and militant passion for "old" Japan and the code by which they lived.
In 1944, many Americans were having the Ramen-Varelse argument about Japan—debating if a dialog were even possible. Benedict recognizes her limitations (secondary and questionable data) and produces a thoughtful analysis.
Mucho más interesante por la profundidad del análisis que por el contenido de algunas conclusiones que saca al respecto.
A foundational work in Japanese culture studies and Japan-America cultural understanding.
Whatever you think of Benedict's theories, her ideas helped shape American post-war understanding of the Japanese people.
But Benedict goes to great lengths to show just why it is so shallow:"The Japanese judge therefore that we are a lawless people.
This is not an easy thing to do, and even the Japanese have had this problem in the past (Benedict argues that this was their primary mistake in the pre-war years--assuming that their cultural ideas were universally good and that the rest of Asia would naturally accept them under conquest).
As an anthropologist, Ruth Benedict was more or less conscripted during World War II to do ethnological research into the Japanese character in order to provide the US government with an understanding how best to fight the Japanese and so win the war.
The major problem Benedict faced was the inability to do true field research at a time when travel to Japan itself was impossible.
Seventy years on, no characterization of the American people as they existed in the 1940's would still be valid simply because the country and the world have both changed so much in the interim.
Japonská kultura, diametrálně odlišná od té americké, musí být těžká na pochopení pro člena jakékoliv jiné společnosti a autorka ve své knize pokrývá snad všechny důležité oblasti života.
Ačkoliv vím, že se o japonském národu vždy referovalo jako o „kruté rase“, s čímž sama vycházeje ze svých ač omezených znalostí souhlasím, Chryzantéma a meč mi odkryla i jiné stránky jejich kultury.
Zaujal mne systém společenské pokory před autoritami a celoživotní zadluženosti, stejně jako jiný, pro naši kulturu relativně cizí přístup ke konkurenci nebo odmítnutí, které si Japonci tvrdě vztahují proti sobě a svojí hodnotě.
Well written and lucid in its explanations, this is a fairly outdated exposition of the Japanese culture (or rather the national character of its people) circa 1946, immediately after the war.
However, the principles and values that she highlights are still alive and well, in my experience with Japanese nationals.
This was a key reading for a module in Japanese anthropology at SOAS which I took for my Master's.
So I suppose perhaps it wasn't all that necessary for me to read the material at the time.
But reading it over two years after it was required of me was a sort of bizarre but appealing exercise in academic nostalgia.
As a Korean, the culture of my country is closer to that of Japan than the States, and I was not sure whether there is something I can learn from the book.
I guess there are points she didn’t get right, but it is her who pointed out many important issues of Japanese culture which people living inside just cannot appreciate.
She explained several key concepts which are uniquely Japanese, such as importance of hierarchy (“taking one’s proper station”), debt (on) and repayment (gimu, giri), Also explained are the concept of “giri to one's name”, and the seemingly paradoxical situation of emphasizing self-discipline and generosity on physical pleasure.
This is probably the earliest comprehensive non-Japanese publication of the topic Nihonjiron.
The book has long been praised as much as censured in both Japan and other parts of the world; however, as an unquestionable pioneer in systematic Japanese anthropological studies from a non-Japanese source, the book hence should be highly valued.
I highly recommend the book to any readers who are interested in the culture of Japan, the rituals, etiquettes, and behaviours of the Japanese people -- the book certainly doesn't contain everything, but it has everything necessary for an outsider to grasp the very basics of Japanese mindset and, in particular, reasons behind the war.
Una muy buena aproximación a la cultura japonesa de 1945.Se trata de las conclusiones de un estudio que se realizó a distancia.
Hay que tener en cuenta que había una guerra de por medio y que en principio, el estudio se realizaba para uno de los lados en conflicto.
A mí me parece que hasta entonces nunca nadie los había explicado tanto y tan bien.A pesar del tiempo transcurrido aún merece la pena leer este libro, aunque es mejor tener en cuenta que el estudio pudo haber sido algo exagerado por la distancia, así como todo el tiempo transcurrido hasta hoy.
Además, esto no quita que aunque muchos aspectos se hayan perdido en la mentalidad japonesa actual, otros muchos sí que siguen activos.Este análisis es sumamente exhaustivo y ahonda en numerosos puntos.
Llegar a un análisis tan profundo con esas limitaciones lo hacen aún más apasionante.Y una muestra de esto, es el hecho de que sus predicciones se cumplieron.
Acorde a los datos que tenía, realizó una estimación de lo que podría ser el Japón posterior a la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
