https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8140617-the-story-of-atlantis-and-the-lost-lemuria
It's amazing that a book about complete nonsense could possibly have this much detail and sound so confidently scientific. Some of my favorite books are written by crackpots who try really hard to prove their obviously crazy theories with actual science or logic. It's always fun.
Συχνά ερασιτέχνες ανθρωπολόγοι και ερασιτέχνες αρχαιολόγοι ταξιδεύουν σε περισσότερο ή λιγότερο απομονωμένες γωνιές του πλανήτη, μελετούν άγνωστες φυλές και ανακαλύπτουν εντυπωσιακά μνημεία ή προχωράνε αρκετά την επιστημονική έρευνα στην εθνογραφία, την γεωγραφία, την ζωολογία, την αρχαιολογία και παρόμοιους τομείς, ακόμα κι όταν τα συμπεράσματα τους δεν είναι πάντοτε σωστά ή σήμερα θεωρούνται ξεπερασμένα.Παράλληλα εμφανίζεται μια μόδα στις ανώτερες κυρίως τάξεις στο Παρίσι, το Λονδίνο, αλλά και στην άλλη πλευρά του Ατλαντικού, να μελετούν διάφορα "αποκρυφιστικά κείμενα", να συμμετέχουν σε "πνευματιστικές" συγκεντρώσεις και να δημιουργούν νέες κοσμοθεωρίες, συχνά βασισμένες στην κατά το δοκούν ερμηνεία των πρόσφατων ανακαλύψεων.
Starts with some pseudo science about history being present in the collective-back-of-the-mind... i almost regret having read that part. But it's a short introduction. After that you get a good come-of-age tale in a historic sci-fi setting with amazing detail and tasteful distortion of pre-recorded history.I'd put this book under Hard Science Fiction, even thought it predates the genre's birth by a long time.
Made me want to visit Nan Madol in Micronesia, Machu Pichu, and otherAncient Places like Easter Islands
This one isn't really my usual choice for reading. I picked it up because I read somewhere this this books was a big influence on fantasy author Robert E. Howard and the creation of his fictional Hyperborean world. Maybe it was or maybe it wasn't; I couldn't really tell. I also wonder if other early sci-fi authors were influenced by this book.That said, the topic here is a little out there. Definitely dated and not for everyone.
The most bizarre compendium of crackpot reasoning I have ever read.
But I don't think that's true; at least nothing I've read anywhere in Howard (Conan or otherwise) fits, apart from the name "Lemuria" (I think) and I think there's a reference to the Hyperborean age in Atlantis.
Then it starts to reference the first book and goes right back in to the woo-woo.It was kind of cool.
And I think Haeckel came up in Foucault as well.Also, although I didn't realize it at the time, both this and Eco are reflected in the Machen book I read The Secret Glory which is also about hidden truths and the quest for the grail.
This is a purported history of the lost continents of Atlantis and Lemuria, but from a Theosophist, and apart from some pseudoscience and a page or two of references from antiquity, it builds its case mostly from spiritualism and Madame Blatavsky's book of Secret Teachings.
This work is alluded to in some of HP Lovecraft's work, and you can see why; the Lemurians were close in spirit to some of his creations.Unfortunately almost all of the book reads like bad science fiction based on bad religious esoteric teaching, which it is.
This was the first serious study that I have made into the stories of Atlantis and Lemuria. It was not written as a science fiction as the writer believed that he received his information via a spirit. I actually need to re-read this story because I found it to be deeper than I was able to comprehend.
Bees and Wheat are gifts from the venusians. 'Nuff said.
This book is awful woo-ish nonsense. Only possibly useful for gaming. And VERY poorly written.
Should be read only by historians, ethnographers and the like. Too scientifically dry for a regular reader just seeking for amazing stories about Atlantis.
