https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128616.The_Complete_Uncollected_Stories
Finally, I got the chance to read something by Salinger. I consider myself as the luckiest human being, because it's so hard to find this collection. my favorite was "Young Girl" the first one and "Elaine"...This book gave me so much more than just the story-line..it's a lifestyle ... Definitely one of my favorite books and clearly a must-read.
search online to read this, I'n my opinion some of the best short stories I have ever read.
A Boy in France 5/5A Girl I Knew 5/5A Young Girl in 1941 With No Waist At All 2/5Both Parties Concerned 3/5Elaine 4/5Go See Eddie 2/5I'm Crazy 4/5Last Day of The Last Furlough 3/5Once a Week Won't Kill You 2/5Personal Notes of an Infantryman 3/5Slight Rebellion Off Madison 3/5Soft Boiled Sergeant 5/5The Hang of It 5/5The Heart of a Broken Story 2/5The Inverted Forest 2/5The Long Debut of Lois Taggett 2/5The Stranger 3/5The Varioni Brothers 2/5The Young Folks 2/5 This Sandwich Has No Mayonnaise 5/5Blue Melody 5/5Hapworth 16, 1924 1/5

I can hardly believe I am done reading all of Salinger's published works.
(Only author whose entire body of work I have read) This book is a of short stories that are some of Salinger's earliest works that were rejected/unpublished (or probably published by magazines - not sure) as well as two stories featuring Holden Caulfield, his most popular character.
'I'm Crazy' featuring Holden is an unpolished version of the beginning of The Catcher in The Rye. A lot of stories in this collection talk about war, a topic that Salinger wrote about during/after his involvement in the war.
this is an unpublished book of stories by Salinger,, but it is possible to find it in some libraries, especially universities with extensive collections. well worth the search. Xerox every page for yourself.
I still think that a selfish and shocking event, but that isn’t what is appealing about this character or this story.What is appealing and compelling is Salinger’s voice, inextricably identified with the narrator bother, Buddy; for example, in “Hapworth 16, 1924,” which is a letter a seven-year-old Seymour writes from summer camp back home to his family and Buddy transcribes years after his brother’s death:“My God, let me achieve missing my beloved family without yearning that they miss me in return!

22 Uncollected Short StoriesbyJ.D. Salingeron 1 CD RomTwenty-Two Uncollected Short Storiesby J.D. Sa
I watched the documentary "Salinger" and felt compelled to track down and read these 22 uncollected stories.
Similar to the published collection "Nine Stories," these 22 offer a very insightful glimpse into the masquerade of class and veneer of wealth and civil "breeding." There's not a lot of plot to speak of and the focus is primarily tone, dialog and behavior, but like so much of Salinger, it's damning and true.
I enjoyed all the stories, which aren't really all that diverse, each one proves equally as compelling.
I especially enjoyed the stories that extended the Caulfield family.
Technically I don't have a hard copy of this (who does?), but thanks to the internet, you can find them all with a little effort. I'm particularly in love with "The Inverted Forest".
Got this book at Michigan Fest around 1999. Totally awesome.
this is a great book and i recommend it to everyone
does anybody have a copy of this?
you can read these at princeton university's library. ask for the story magazine collection.
Golly!” dialogue back on earth.My favorites in the collection were “A Girl I Know,” “I’m Crazy” (though later worked into Catcher in the Rye, it is a great stand alone story), “Heart of a Broken Story” and “The Stranger.” Though most readers who come upon this unauthorized collection are Salinger completists, not all of the stories deserve to be included alongside the others (or even republished, in some cases), whether they amount only to a clunky reveal at the end(view spoiler)[(“The Hang of It,” “Personal Notes of…”) (hide spoiler)], they don’t fit the collection (view spoiler)[(“The Varioni Brother” or even “Blue Melody,” which ends up being a profound picture of segregation unlike any I’ve seen before, but it is downright strange next to stories about soldiers, even more so for the dialect it uses for its black characters) (hide spoiler)] or they simply aren’t any good next to the author’s other work in this collection(view spoiler)[(“Both Parties Concerned” and “Go See Eddie”) (hide spoiler)].
Nonostante alcuni racconti siano carini (The Young Folks, Go See Eddie, The Heart of a Broken Story, A Young Girl in 1941 with No Waist at All) e ci sia un racconto lungo che ho semplicemente adorato (The Inverted Forest, che per un certo periodo di tempo è stato disponibile in italiano qui: http://laforestacapovolta.blogspot.it/ ), il bello per i fan di Salinger probabilmente è nei racconti che hanno a che fare con i Caulfield e i Glass.I'm Crazy è la bozza de Il giovane Holden, scritto in prima persona da Holden, con Mr Spencer all'inizio e Phoebe e un'inedita Viola alla fine.
I loved "The Heart of a Broken Story," and one of my new favorite sentences (maybe even taking precedence over the one in "A Perfect Day for Bananafish") is in "The Varioni Brothers."This "uncollected" collection suffers a bit from transcription and binding mistakes in the collection process.
Which I realize is what he's known for, with The Catcher in the Rye...but the stories I love are the ones that aren't dated by the narrator's colloquial voice, and in which something tragic and surprising ultimately occurs.
Understandably, then, the last two stories of this collection were not my favorite.
It's such a shame that Salinger himself didn't have any interest in the publication of a collection like this one.
But even these ones are at least worthwile in so far as they show Salinger's growth from just a talented writer with a great feel for dialogue and characters to the author of a classic like "The Catcher in the Rye".My favorite pieces in this collection (all of these I would highly recommend for any fan of Salinger): 'Both Parties Concerned', 'Last Day of the Last Furlough', 'A Boy in France', 'Elaine', 'The Inverted Forest', 'A Girl I Knew' and 'Blue Melody'.
amazing book, definitely it can help to understand the whole genius of JDS - his talent is to turn complicated things into simple and corny ones in order to reorder our world into words. these out-of-print gems give some information about Caulfield family (I'm Crazy, Slight Rebellion off Madison, This Sandwich Has No Mayonnaise, Last Day of the Last Furlough, etc.) and some insights into mind of his genius-character - I mean Hapworth 16, 1924 - the letter by 7-years-old Seymour to us. by the way this review is a review of Salinger completist.
It makes me hella sad to know this is probably the last new material I read by J.D. Salinger. I keep hoping new writings will turn up, because they must be there, but I don't depend on it. A lot of completely new stories here and a lot of familiarities too. Old and new, almost every story touched me. Salingers words and characters have its simple, pure and descriptive way that gives me the chills every time.
Think my expectations were a little inflated, understandably so, due to the relative obscurity of this collection. Starts off with a bang in "Young Folks" then gets goofy and hit or miss till the second half. The reappearance of Holden was exciting even if the stories' plot lines were repetitive. Overall, it was a bittersweet reminder of Salinger's talent and voice, wholly original and full of verve.
An acquaintance is a member of Train Bridge Recluse and gave me a copy of the "red sparrow" second edition which he said was limit to 500 copies. The typos and missing pages from the first edition are corrected, and there are beautiful translucent pages between the stories with faint trees printed on them. Being a fan, I enjoyed reading these stories, and am looking forward to the Salinger documentary in September.
I just got a copy of this and am so excited.I am almost as elated as when I finally got hold of a copy of Genius The Life and Science of Richard Feynman after a very long search.
Is this set of stories in print? I first came across it in an online forum. Like many of the things we fetished, it was passed around covertly. I'm not sure if this added to its appeal, but I hardly think it needed any extra. Salinger's writing is deft, compelling and fresh. If only he'd consent to film adaptations! what riches.
There are some definite gems in this collection, but I found many of them to be without merit. The final story, Hapworth 16, 1924, was a chore to read. The long-windedness and pretentious narrator reminded me of Ignatius from A Confederacy of Dunces but without the humorous and wacky aspect.
This isn't the book, but close enough. "Twenty-two Out-of-Print J.D. Salinger Stories" has several stories that were featured in magazines in the 40's but haven't been republished until now/2014, sorta new Salinger! Angst, isolation, loneliness, and goofy life in general. Salinger makes me want to smoke cigarettes and listen to The Cure.
It's wonderful to visit with Salinger- anew. I wasn't aware of these stories and enjoyed them all. I liked the second half better and really liked the The Inverted Forest and A Girl I Knew. I have always loved the Glass family but you would not enjoy Seymour, in this tale, without reading other stories. The sensual 7-year old was a little creepy!
The uncollected stories put the rest of his work to shame. This is where he meets his postwar peers from across the pond. These stories fit with those of Boll and Grass and in some ways Vonnegut, and the raw heart of the best ones makes Catcher and even Seymour seem overly technical or stylized games.
is there a chance to read it somewhere? as far as I know these stories where puplished by the newyorker (?!?) in the late 50's without salingers permission! so shortly after the release he forced them to take it from the market. so where did you guys read that book ??? I really need to read to read these stories!
