https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32508.The_Black_Echo
Let’s give it a test run on this Michael Connelly novel, shall we?So this is the first book in the series featuring a LAPD detective named Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch *BEEP*.
*BEEP* *BEEP* *BEEP* Damn, the old war buddy schtick really swung the needle into the red on this thing.Harry quickly finds evidence that the victim was involved in a high profile bank robbery that had involved tunneling into a vault and emptying the safe deposit boxes.
I think Connelly broke it.Anyhow, the odd thing about his book is that even though it’s got just about every cop thriller cliché you’ve ever heard of, it still works pretty well.
Later in the series, he will articulate his motto, which is that "Everybody counts or nobody counts." But it's clear that he's already driven by this principle when we first meet him.For Harry, it's often a pretty lonely road in a department that basically seems to be filled with self-serving cops and bureaucrats who are much less interested in serving justice than they are in achieving their own ends.
It's hardly the way to win friends and influence people, but Harry clearly doesn't care.The Black Echo begins when Harry is called to a death site near a dam.
I came at Michael Connelly backwards, reading the entire Mickey Haller series before any of his Harry Bosch books.
And after encountering Bosch in The Reversal, I wasn't that compelled to read more about him.
Connelly's storytelling gifts are many and varied.
He is a master of pacing, has a knack for creating multi-dimensional characters, writes realistic dialogue, a creates a robust plot.
The best part is that even after you think you figured out the caper, you haven't, because there are so many layers to Connelly's writing that you've only peeled it back to the next.
It would seem to be a wild coincidence that he is on duty when a call comes through for him to investigate the finding of a dead body in a drainage tunnel in LA; and it turns out that Harry knew the dead man, a fellow tunnel rat from his time in country.So begins Bosch’s investigation into what happened to his old buddy, and Connelly’s popular run of mystery novels.While this was certainly entertaining and fun, and Bosch is a charismatic detective, mixing elements of the hard-boiled investigator with a modern day, cagey world weariness, this made me think of watching film of a very young athlete who would one day become a hall of famer.
But here's where first impressions mislead: given that Connelly worked as a journalist, I didn't think his writing skills were that limited on purpose, and a sample chapter at the end of this book for his series starring a lawyer provided proof of a more sophisticated style.
It probably doesn't hurt that the style might also appeal to the mass market in digestibility.That said, it ended up being an entertaining read.
It ended up pulling me through the dusty Dr. Seuss language into a complex web of conflict between Harry Bosch, his current supervisor, Internal Affairs, the FBI and a hidden killer.
Out of the blue and into the black is what they called going into a tunnel. Each one was a black echo. Nothing but death in there. But, still, they went..... Reading a new detective series right from where it all began is always exciting & the Harry Bosch series seems to be the perfect series for it. The Black Echo is the debut novel by American crime author Michael Connelly, published back in 1992. This is the first of Connelly's Bosch series (with 20 books published & 21st to be publi
This is the first of Connelly's Bosch series (with 20 books published & 21st to be published soon).Set in Los Angeles in the early 1990s, Harry Bosch, working with the LAPD, is on the case of a dead man found in a drainage pipe.
Harry recognizes the corpse as that of a fellow soldier in Vietnam; both were 'tunnel rats' (who searched for Viet Cong in the network of burrows beneath Vietnamese villages) What starts as a routine case of homeless man dying of a drug overdose, takes unimaginable twists & turns.
Great read! interesting and entertaining series...M.Connelly never fails with his writing...(paperback!)
Reto #12 PopSugar 2017: Un bestseller de un género que normalmente no leas Reconozco que si no hubiera sido escogido en un Club de Lectura, probablemente nunca habría leído este libro. En general, en esta línea, prefiero la novela negra que la policial, no por un sentido de morbo pero sí porque normalmente las personalidades de los involucrados tienden a ser más interesantes y las motivaciones más complejas.Sin embargo, me llevé una gratísima sorpresa. Además de introducirnos en el universo de
En general, en esta línea, prefiero la novela negra que la policial, no por un sentido de morbo pero sí porque normalmente las personalidades de los involucrados tienden a ser más interesantes y las motivaciones más complejas.Sin embargo, me llevé una gratísima sorpresa.
Realmente me entretuve mucho.Punto adicional por la sensación vintage que se produce al leer esta novela 25 años después de su primera publicación (máquinas de escribir, bíper, teléfonos públicos, fumar en las oficinas) y por abordar el triste panorama que tuvieron que enfrentar los veteranos de Vietnam.
He became a detective after five years in patrol.Books in published order:The Black Echo (1992)The Black Ice (1993)The Concrete Blonde (1994)The Last Coyote (1995)Trunk Music (1997)Angels Flight (1999)A Darkness More Than Night (2001)City Of Bones (2002)Lost Light (2003)The Narrows (2004)The Closers (2005)Echo Park (2006)The Overlook (2007)The Brass Verdict (2008)Nine Dragons (2009)The Reversal (2010)The Fifth Witness (2011) (one page brief appearance)The Drop (2011)The Black Box (2012)The Gods of Guilt (2013) (one page brief appearance)The Burning Room (2014)The Crossing (November 2015)Mickey Haller Series:Mickey Haller Background: Born in 1965 in Los Angeles to a B-list movie actress from Mexico and the famous criminal defense attorney, J.
Reading the book I kept picturing Harry Bosch with the face of Titus Welliver, the wonderful actor who so brilliantly portrays him.The story begins with the death of a junkie, that normally would have been written off as an overdose, were it not for the fact that Harry knew the man both in the present and the past.
Bosch went home and into the police force.Harry doesn't think that Meadows overdosed and eventually ties him to a bank robbery in which they had gotten into the vault through a tunnel.
I read an article in the L.A. Times about Michael Connelly, and his background as a crime reporter intrigued me, so I decided to read his books.
I started with The Black Echo, the first book in the Hieronymous Bosch series, and I am very glad that I read these books in order.
Connelly is a masterful writer in that he is constantly referencing past cases and old details in his Bosch series.
This book sucked me in to its storyline, and once I finished, I knew I had to read everything else Connelly had written.
I also love how each Connelly novel creates such a sense of place.
No suelo leer novela negra. Ni policial. Es un género que, a parte de algún escritor, no suele llamarme mucho la atención. Pues bien, sin duda Michael Connelly, es a día de hoy uno de esos escritores que trataré de seguir. Decir que este inicio de serie me ha encantado es quedarme corta. El personaje de Bosch me ha gustado mucho, sobre todo por lo humano que es (con sus defectos y virtudes), así como la estructura de la novela y ese giro final que, aunque intuyes algo, no deja de sorprenderte.
Great series! compelling,complicated and there are many layers to the plot to which the author handle with ease by unraveling the storyline..great writing (paperback!)
I really enjoyed it.Harry Bosch is a detective in the LAPD homicide division in Hollywood.
After recognising him, and realising it wasn’t a simple drug overdose that it looked like, Harry gets pulled into a bigger investigation.
The hunt is on for the killer before he finds himself the next victim.This book pretty much had everything I enjoy in a novel.
Loved how everyone was out to get poor Harry, even though he was totally innocent.
Even Lewis and Clarke!The only thing I didn’t like about The Black Echo was the TOTALLY PREDICTABLE twist at the end.
Not quite 5 stars, but close. The book went off on a slow start which made me think it would be a 3 star, but halfway it got more pace and became more tense. The information about Vietnam was interesting and I liked Harry Bosch as a character.
The Black Echo is book one in the Harry Bosch series by Michael Connelly.
The readers of The Black Echo will follow the twists and turns in Harry Bosch investigation.
Also, the readers of The Black Echo will be surprised with the ending of this book.
I also like that Michael Connelly developed a fantastic character that does not match the traditional stereotype in crime fiction.
The way Michael Connelly described his settings allow me to engage in the plot and the characters.
The readers of Harry Bosch will learn about the procedures and roles of law enforcement officers in LA.
Having read a few of the later Harry Bosch novels it was time I started at the beginning of the series and read them in order.
Okay so Harry is a bit of a cliche but he is also very likeable in a strange sort of way.
Towards the end of the book I actually became a bit bogged down with information overload and maybe a few too many twists but the ending was thrilling enough to redeem anything.
A great read and I will move on happily to the next in the series.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...A lot of it may resonate more with those of us old enough to remember pay phones, Alice's Restaurant, and the Viet Nam War and its aftermath.Still, except for the ending, which I found somehow unsatisfying, this is well written enough to carry any reader, whether they or not they remember its era.This is my first Michael Connolly novel, and I'll certainly be reading more.
His writing is clear and based in facts.Harry Bosch (who's real name is, hilariously, Hieronymous Bosch, after the fifteenth century Dutch mystical/fantastical painter who was way ahead of his time), is a maverick LAPD detective.
The dead person turns out to be Billy Meadows, a man Harry did "tunnel rat" duty with in Viet Nam.Harry gets dragged into the investigation.
But on occasion there was more to the disappointment than personal perspective.So I came to Black Echo and Michael Connelly proceeded by universal acclaim stopping just short of worship.
Long before I’d finished the book I knew I had joined the chorus.We first meet Harry Bosch as a detective out of the Hollywood Division of the LAPD, which to an outsider might sound like a premium assignment.
Again, Connelly wisely has Bosch discover signs questioning the accidental OD before he discovers the identity of the corpse.It doesn’t take long for the case to open out into something bigger.
So, it was a little weird for the characters that I've accepted and appreciate in their show roles are so very different in the book.
Maybe it's just character inspiration (very LOOSE inspiration) and the show plot was never intended to follow the book series at all.
I don't think that the series could continue through something like 20 books if they didn't get a bit better than what we saw here.
He thinks his own way, and makes his own plays, and he can be a jaded, cocky shit at times, but he definitely doesn't have everything figured out, and I don't think he's ready to write off the world just yet.
I'm not reviewing this book because Kemper's review says everything that needs to be said about. While trying to write my own review, I found myself regurgitating everything he said, so this is what you get. A link to his review.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...In summation: I swear I'm not being lazy here. Kemper simply nailed everything I wanted to say. Final Judgment: Nothing new, but I still enjoyed it.
Introducing LAPD Homicide Detective Harry Bosch, a wisecracking tough guy with a soft heart who bucks the system and humiliates comically inept authority figures but gets away with it because he's so good at his job, which presumably involves not only bedding any nearby females but also making absurdly large leaps of reason and intuition in order to untangle needlessly complicated plots which are peppered with astonishingly unlikely coincidences but are nevertheless - it must be grudgingly admitted - interesting to read and satisfyingly concluded. Sounds like no other mystery book ever, right?
3 and a half stars for me. Quite a slow and average start for the first quarter of the book then picked up as it went along. A little outdated but still quite a good read.
One mystery I was unable to solve...exactly why is The Black Echo so darn popular?!?The Vietnam War never really ended, not for Harry Bosch.
Lewis and Clarke are far too incompetent to add any sense of danger for Bosch, and they aren't nearly amusing enough to work on any comedic level, so their sequences just feel like a complete waste of time.
If Connelly had cut out all the needless repetition and the Lewis and Clarke moments, this book could have easily been less than half its length, and much more satisfying to read!Another problem for me was that I wasn't invested in any of the characters.
Well, I really liked the video series and so, I thought I would get into the books.The Black Echo did not disappoint me in any way.
Now, I am no expert on crime but the way the detectives work in the books/series seems very down to earth and practical.
The detectives grind through all the evidence, follow up on leads, do a lot of leg work and yes, some of them get insights some of the time.
But this is minor when compared to the entire experience of the book.If you have watched season 3 of the prime video series, you can recognise that the main storyline is inspired from The Black Echo.
I somehow got this onto my reading list a couple of years ago, thinking it was sci-fi....
I then inhaled 16 of the Bosch books within 3 months  , and now have to wait like the rest of you for a year for each new story.This is the first-ever published book by Michael Connelly, and it's a cracker!
The pace picks up, the murder becomes two, and more complex, more red herrings, an FBI love interest well-handled, a terrific climax at the end, and then a superb twist.Well-drawn characters, wonderful descriptions of (Los Angeles, which city I do not know), and historical references and backgrounds to "tunnel rats" during the Vietnam War - fascinating and horrific.Excellent stuff.
This was a super detective book that I couldn't put down.I made a mistake by not reading the books in order of sequence.I read first "The Concrete Blonde" followed by "The Black Echo."The Black Echo was the first in the series.Harry is a homicide cop who works a case and never gives up, always looking for a different angle.He picks up a case on the weekend and his partner is needing to work his moonlighting job, so Harry goes himself to see the body in a drainpipe.
I recently introduced myself to Michael Connelly through the Renee Ballard books and liked them. One goodread friend mentioned that the Bosch books were better, but for some reason they never really appealed. Last weekend, I took the plunge and I loved it. I like the idea of a man with his own code of honour and it was no surprise to learn from the author in the afterword that he was inspired by Philip Marlowe. Another series to add to the long list!
Billy Meadows was a fellow 'tunnel rat' in Vietnam and Harry swears to bring the killer to justice.Written and set in 1992, it is interesting to see how times have changed in these 18 years.
That said, the fundamental elements of a police procedural and a cracking good story demonstrate why Connelly and the Harry Bosch series, are one of the best.
Our introduction to Harry not only sets the scene but tells us quite a bit about his life.
It is this level of detail in our introduction to Harry, although better editing might have the redundancies of that detail,that sets the scene for this book.
I’ve decided to go back to the start of the Harry Bosch novels, created by Michael Connelly, as I missed out on a fair few over the years.
Meadows used to run the tunnels and flush out anyone hiding in them, and these tunnels were dubbed the black echo.What follows, during the course of the investigation, is the uncovering of far more than just one death.
Corruption, conspiracy and so much more take place in The Black Echo.
The whole story fits together effortlessly and is supported with an excellent cast of characters.I can’t recommend Michael Connelly and his Harry Bosch series highly enough.
