https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23016317-seduction-and-snacks
Tara Sivec...my vagina salutes youThe unfiltered hilarity of this book made me laugh and orgasm at the same time.
I normally don't like vagina; it can be very territorial.
When vagina...vaginas...vagini?
It's like the f**king whoo-ha olympics; every twat for themselves.
A woman that makes me want to jump up and yell, "OOH!
Tara Sivec is the vagina whisperer.
You are a rock star!This book came highly recommended to me because of it's real hilarity, but damn if I didn't fall for everything else too.
Even without the pantie soiling humor, Seduction & Snacks would still be a five star book!
DNFThis book started out hilarious and I was having a blast reading it until I wasn't. It stopped being funny and started to become annoying. Very annoying, over-the-top, and ridiculous. Just too much! For me, this is one of those books that tries too hard to be funny and ends up failing because of it. And, boy, was it crude! Not a fun combination for me!I believe whether or not this book works for a reader depends solely on what one considers humorous. For those wondering if this book's humor will work for you,  Searock's review gives a good example.
It was oh-so-swoony with some seriously omg-fan-yourself H.O.T and steamy bedroom scenes and an absolutely heart-meltingly sweet and beautiful story about a family finding each other and coming together… just all-round WIN!!
However, one drunken college party one-night-stand with a gorgeous swoony guy whose name she doesn’t even know later, she finds herself pregnant.
At the same time, we get the alternate POV from Carter (the gorgeous swoony guy she slept with) who also has been searching everywhere trying to find her.
Seduction and Snacks is one of - if not the - funniest book I’ve ever read.
Edited to add: If there's a downside to the book it's that while reading, I often wondered if Claire did nothing to shelter Gavin from her own unparentlike behaviors.
The bottom line – this book had me laughing so hard I was crying.
If you’re looking for a story that won’t leave you emotionally drained, one that will leave you with a smile on your face, and the only tears come from laughing so hard you ache, then definitely read Seduction and Snacks.
Not only is this book pee-your-pants funny, it’s incredibly hot!! It’s also romantic, sweet, sassy, and fun. I absolutely loved it, and I’m going to make all of my friends read it. Then I’m going to make them text me their favorite lines, so I can laugh all over again!
★★★★ 4 memorable and funny-as-hell STARS. My main reaction while reading this book was pretty much this: Or this: I was either laughing out loud or shocked at something one of the characters said and that made me embarrased in their place for actually saying what they did out loud. Random thoughts and highlights:❥ My favorite character of the book was by far Gavin!! He's probably the CUTEST, FUNNIEST four year old ever. Some pf the things he did and said were just too cute and he never failed to
Some pf the things he did and said were just too cute and he never failed to crack me up.❥ Claire is a very likeable heroine that pretty much says whatever she's thinking at the moment.
Together they make quite the pair and I'm already looking forward to reading their story!❥ Claire's overprotective and again funny as hell dad George never failed to crack me up with his good natured overprotectiveness.❥ The whole "Seduction and Snacks" concept with Liz selling sex toys and Claire selling her chocolate and cookies was a nice, original touch to the story and made for some The story itself was more of a 3 star for me, but because of the sense of humor and the originality of the characters and their hilarious conversations, this book deserves a solid 4 STAR rating.
I laughed so hard, in a few places in this thing, my sides ached.
I think one of the very things I have some rigidity about is how children are portrayed in books.
She had this poor kid [4 years old] saying things a veteran trucker or sailor would have issue hearing come out of their own mouths.
Either focus on the humor or focus on the romance or develop your talents to balance the two much better than this debut demonstrates.I would not recommend the entire book to anybody.
I know this book has been out for several years but I just found it.  I loved loved loved it soooooo much. I don't think that I have ever laughed so hard while reading a book.What's not to love? Romance✔Fun✔Sex talk( lots of talk)✔Sex✔Great friends✔Laughing( lots of laughing)✔Seduction & Snacks is definitely my favorite of the year so far!!
Ok, I have to say this "WHAT IN GOD'S AND HOT CHOCOLATE'S NAME WAS THAT?"[image error]In the first few pages all I could see was "I'm never having children"...then...babies, babies, babies, ranting, ranting, ranting,disgusting, disgusting, disgusting, ranting, ranting, ranting....yeah we get it...the heroine has an extreeeeeeme aversion to children, and all things related to them (including childbirth) and then of course she had to go and have a baby of her own in a super romantic manner (*note-sarcasm*) and end up being a single mom....I was kinda surprised that I even read the book till there....because all I could think along the way was 
.......Everyone and I mean everyone in the book was obsessed with vagina and of course penis, all they could do was talk about it, think about it, want to have sex all the time either with themselves or others.
Although this is not the path she had planned to take, she pulls up her boot straps, revves up her sense of humor and makes the necessary adjustments to her life – which includes dropping out of college and moving back home with her gruff, but loveable military father.The crazy, but loveable cast of characters suck you in from the beginning – from the 4 year-old devil’s spawn with a mouth like a sailor to the potentially psychotic father/grandfather and every character in between.Self-Published Author, Tara Sivec definitely has a way with words – quite unlike any author I have read.
This Is The Most Hilarious Book I've Ever Read!!!!
Hands Down!!!At one point, I had tears streaming down my face from laughing so hard!!5 AMAZING STARS!!!!!!!!Short Summary: Claire is a college student who decides to lose her virginity at a frat party, but consequently ends up getting knocked up by Carter aka the one night stand.
They never see each other again until 5 years later when Carter shows up at the bar Claire works at.
Claire recognizes Carter and the rest makes for one funny ass story.
I loved Claire.
But the person who stole the whole book to me is Claire and Carter's four year old son Gavin.
I remember being pretty horrified by kids myself until I had my own little monster daughters that I couldn't love more if I tried.
In every single scene that involves the kid, he's either punching someone in the balls, asking his MOTHER to see her boobs, staring at his father's morning wood, or cursing.
There are almost as many hangovers as boners in this book, and more than one scene is dedicated to the stupid things that Claire and her posse do while rip roaring drunk.
It's so lighthearted, even the parts that maybe should have held more meaning...like Claire dropping out of college because she got pregnant.
Should not have touched this.
I tried. This one just isn't going to work. Swearing and sex doesn't bother me (obviously, if you know me) but this book reminds me of a preteen who's just decided that he'll seem really awesome if he manages to fit in every raunchy word possible in the telling of one story - it's called trying too hard to be entertaining. The jokes are drowning in the attempt to look youthful and cool.
I don't care that this was written originally as a Twilight fanfic and that people are pissed that the author pulled her stories from the free domain to publish them (seriously, all of you that gave the author one star for doing that NEED TO GROW UP!!!
Why don't y'all just go lay that shit on the doorstep of EL James, considering that Fifty Shades was also originally written as a Twilight fanfic?!), people like me who don't read alot of fanfics APPRECIATE authors doing that ESPECIALLY for stories like this which are the BOMB and DESERVE to be shared with the rest of us...
Coincidentally, they meet again, and so begins a romance that was funny as hell, totally hot, completely romantic and amazing to read.Claire’s inner monologue of how to tell Carter he was her baby-daddy were hysterical:“Hey Carter, speaking of hot–your hot beef injection had a play date with my eggs”“Speaking of crazy, your spunk has a crazy backstroke”“I was trying to figure out a way to tell him his love mayonnaise had mad skills and no one at this table could stop talking about vibrators”So not only am I in love with the women in the story (Claire & Liz, and Jenny’s use of English) but the men too!
Um, a hilarious rom-com about second chance romance with plenty of smut and a whole shit load of chocolate?? To this, I say...I was a little skeptical about reading this book because I don't typically like books that involve surprise pregnancies or kiddos in general. I prefer my fiction escapes  not  to mirror my real life as a mom. Anywho… in this story, a drunken one night stand leads to a loss of virginity, a surprise pregnancy, and absolutely no idea as to the identity of the man with the ex
To this, I say...I was a little skeptical about reading this book because I don't typically like books that involve surprise pregnancies or kiddos in general.
Anywho… in this story, a drunken one night stand leads to a loss of virginity, a surprise pregnancy, and absolutely no idea as to the identity of the man with the excellent swimmers.
Light read with absolutely no angst.
I mean, it was so funny in parts that I was wiping the "laughing tears" from my eyes.If you are looking for a light, easy, friggin' hilarious read with enough spice to make you sweat *wink* I highly recommend this sweet book.
How, in the name of all that is holly can people call this book funny?
My inner goddess tried explaining this to me, since she is currently bored because I don’t have a dysfunctional abuser in my life that can defeat me with his enormous&skilled penis….just a really sweet and ordinary fiancé.
With lots of comedians that just tried too hard!Why do people find these characters likable?!”Din, you stupid girl!
And he does it all while cursing like a sailor.
In summary, Claire and Carter met five-years earlier and had a drunken one-night stand that left her pregnant and neither of them knowing how to find the other.
The constant jokes about vaginas, poop, penises, a cursing 4-year old, and getting drunk were hilarious at times but they also became annoyingly repetitive.
I loved the romance between Carter and Claire, I thought they had great chemistry.
A 4-year old with a mouth like a sailor, and some hilarious comments about the very adult world that surrounds him.
The friends were a great mix for the story, their wackiness made Carter and Claire look like the 'normal' ones.

Meh.
Hilarious!
However, I soon discovered that this book was not for my taste.First of all, you know in comedies how there is a funny person and a straight man?
Both characters were just off the wall and so similar that if it wasn't for the "he" or "she"s I would have trouble telling their voices apart.Secondly, as a mother of an almost 4 year old, I thought that the character of Gavin was totally off.
I mean, I know I'm nitpicking, but I would flip out if my child said 1/100th of the things that Gavin said or did.
We’ll that’s what Claire and Carter have when they meet five years ago at a college frat party.
Yes, Carter is dreamy and gorgeous and funny and smart, but she has a plan for her life, and having a boyfriend as a distraction is not part of it.
Life laughed at Claire that night, when on her first time of having sex, she becomes pregnant.
I was a little worried when I first started reading this story because Claire at first comes off a little too cynical but that quickly changes and I ended up loving this snarky girl.
I don’t recall a time that I laughed so much while reading a book!
If Claire was a real person, I could totally see myself being friends with her…I actually have a friend like her.
I loved how the book went between Claire and Carter’s POVs. I loved seeing how into each other they were.
Both Claire and Carter spent time looking for and thinking about the one that got away in college.
Carter wasn’t some millionaire that Claire met one night then meets up with later and her whole world is changed because of his money.
I haven’t laughed so hard in a while.
While this book was about Claire and Carter I think Gavin, the four year old stole the show.
Every time Gavin talked about his weiner I felt the same emotions as Claire and Carter.
I didn’t want to laugh, but sometimes you just couldn’t help it.
One of my favorite parts is when Gavin runs into the room to show everyone his new ”sword” (view spoiler)[her dildo (hide spoiler)] and Claire has to wrestle him for it in front of Carter and her dad.
Seriously, if you haven’t read this book and need a good laugh, READ IT!
What can I say about this book?
Not only was the story sweet and sexy but this has to be the funniest book I have ever read- I mean lol non stop funny!Book starts with Claire who never wants kids.
Five years later fate(or his job) brings Carter to Claire's home town....Claire is probably the funniest and most likable female characters I have read!
Carter was great too, he had his funny moments and was swoon worthy.
Best kid ever lol So glad there is going to be a second book!!!!
If you haven't read this book READ IT!
Title: Seduction and SnacksSeries: Chocolate Lovers #1Author: Tara SivecRelease Date:  2012Rating: 3.5 starsCliffhanger:. No HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes (hide spoiler)]Seduction and Snacks was very first book, I’ve read by Tara Sivec and I was pleasantly surprised by how quickly she drew me into the story and made me forget all about the real world. I found myself laughing so hard my cheeks hurt and the stupid grin never fell of my face. It was very nice change after many emotional or dark reads.
No HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes  (hide spoiler)]Seduction and Snacks was very first book, I’ve read by Tara Sivec and I was pleasantly surprised by how quickly she drew me into the story and made me forget all about the real world.
I think I’ve been laughing almost from the first page to the last, and some more, after closing the book and remembering some of the hilarious situations.
It was sweet and simple, but that’s it.
Still, even though it was not writing masterpiece, I was entertained and had fun and that’s pretty much everything I expected.
Funniest book I have ever read!
And then I picked this book!!
Thank GOD and thank you Tara Sivec!Hilarious and witty, addictive and funny, this book grabs you and smacks you down.
No fear though, they quickly warm up to you.*Favourite characters*: Gavin, the menace.
That's kids for you!Gavin favourite scene: Morning erection....Carter, the sensitive.
When he barked at Claire I fell off my chair!All time favourite scene.
I had an asthma attack due to too much laughing.This book saved my sanity and I'll definitely pick up the next.
Can't wait to find out more about Claire, Carter and their merry band of crazy family and friends...
I loved, loved, loved, this book! Absolutely hilarious! I wanted to hang out with these people, have some drinks, have some laughs, and of course eat some chocolate. Chocolate covered potato chips, never had them, but now I'm craving them. This is a book I finished and then immediately purchased the next book in the series. I guess this probably isn't for everybody, but if you have a sense of humor, and it's a little crude, you will absolutely love this book!
