https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191577.Journeyman
Os dias quentes amanhecem muito cedo em Rocky Comfort, Geórgia, e sucedem-se poeirentos e monótonos.
No lugarejo, restam poucos negros e brancos.
Vivem subjugados pela miséria provocada ainda pela Grande Depressão.
Caldwell reproduz sem moralizar, e com um humor peculiar, a degradação , a secura e a brutalidade desta gente do sul , que, como animais se deixa levar pela oportunidade, sem que a consciência os trave.
Semon, o pregador laico, surge, então, milagrosa e inesperadamente neste cenário , propondo-se salvar estas almas tresmalhadas.
A história não se alonga, pelo que a li num só fôlego roída de curiosidade.
Caldwell Amerikan edebiyatına giriş amacıyla denediğim bir roman oldu. Lakin yazıldığı tarih açısından farklı olabilirse de basit buldum. Kurgunun duygusuzluğu ve vasatlıği kitabı eksiltmiş.
Appena un pelo sotto "La via del tabacco". Ma forse anche no.E' incentrato sulla figura del protervo predicatore Semon Dye, un fottuto bastardo psicotico che inevitabilmente richiama alla mente il Robert Mitchum di Night of the Hunter.Orchestrato su alcune magnifiche scene - la partita a dadi e la predica con delirante 'salvazione' finale su tutte - vive ad un certo punto un momento di pura estasi letteraria nel capanno di Tom Rhodes, nell'episodio della fenditura fra le assi, alcune pagine da piangere per la gioia di averle lette, per la fortuna di averle incontrate, di un livello indescrivibile.
Semon Dye, surely had a way with women and preached away through every small town in Georgia, sinning as only he could, while conning all the folktown he met on his way.
In the beginning I was getting the notion That Semon was another lecherous preacher like the Reverend Davidson in the story "Rain" by W.
Semon took to be a traveling preacher or pretended to be one,that enabled him to earn his bed and board for free,contact women on his way and rip off all the boors he met.
And here I thought O'Connor's Wiseblood was weird and wonderful. When it comes down to it, no doubt but that Caldwell can out "O'Connor" O'Connor.
Absolutely brilliant.
This southern preacher is a sinner except when he is preaching - Caldwell was quite a writer.
I like this cover better:[image error]
Livro que se lê muito facilmente, e por isso 3 estrelas por não complicar.Simon Dye é um pregador que chega a uma terra perdida, no meio da américa profunda, Rocky Confort, Jorgia, perto do Alabama.
No entanto no dia seguinte, quando lorene se preparava para ir com Simon, e até Dene, também, descobrem que ele já tinha ido logo cedo, no carro que pertencera a Clay, e que provavelmente não voltaria.
Clay mostra sentimentos de pena pela próxima povoação que simon visitasse, mas também demonstra satisfação por ter recebido tal visita, que o enchia de orgulho apesar de ter sido ludibriado pelo pregador, por representar uma quebra na monotonia da sua vida.
Caldwell's recurring theme seems to be the depravity of the depression-era South, and Journeyman is no exception.
This tale of an itinerant preacher arriving in a rural area allegedly to convert the masses portrays the inhabitants as gullible, lazy, and stupid.
Caldwell tells a good tale, and his characters are memorable.
I am too young to verify his portrayal of the era, but am familiar with the rural South, and though I take a much more charitable view of its people, I find many familiar images in his work.

For me, Tobacco Road and, to a lesser extent, God's Little Acre missed the mark on the best mix of caricature and message.
In both of these earlier stories, I felt the caricatures were too extreme, too far fetched to be fair to back country Southerners.
But in Journeyman, Caldwell gets the mix right.
The three Erskine Caldwell stories I've read: Tobacco Road, God's Little Acre, and Journeyman, provide a very good, and very disturbing look into the racism in the Southern United States in the 1930s.
Caldwell was a Southerner, and he wrote about what he knew.
Salvando animeAncora una volta Caldwell riesce a ritagliare magistralmente spaccati di mentalità, di abitudini, di gesti fisiologici di quel sud americano che gli ha dato i natali, la Georgia.Prende un uomo, un predicatore, lo lascia libero di vagare presso sentieri lastricati di (genuina) ignoranza, di modo che egli riesca a giocare con le tentazioni e con il senso di peccato della gente.
E come spesso accade, dopo un incendio quel che resta è la desolazione.Se avete visto il film La Morte corre sul fiume di C.
Caldwell writes like one else. This features the most memorable revival scene ever penned.
Like God's Little Acre meets Wiseblood.
It’s hard to know what to say about  Journeyman  that I haven’t already said about any number of other novels and collections of short stories by Erskine Caldwell. Is he the best American writer I’ve ever read? Arguably. Does he paint unforgettable pictures of people and places? Without a doubt. Is  Journeyman  a good example of both?I was absolutely mesmerized during most of my reading of this novel. That said, I wouldn’t call it flawless. The penultimate scene with the local townsfolk of Rocky
that I haven’t already said about any number of other novels and collections of short stories by Erskine Caldwell.
a good example of both?I was absolutely mesmerized during most of my reading of this novel.
It’s just not the best of his work I’ve read to date.
Absolutely!—at least until I’ve run out of those works I can find through mail order in second-hand bookstores throughout the U.S. Those bookstores are no doubt happy to exchange their old Signet paperbacks for a few bucks; I’m happy to extend my study of Erskine Caldwell—and then to leave this collection of his books to my children.

Found a 1940s edition of this and picked it up though I was looking for a different book by the author. Interesting story, classic Southern Gothic fiction. Didn't relate or have sympathy for any of the characters but couldn't stop reading to find out for terribly it all ended. The "preacher" is one of the evilest villains I've ever read--though almost too awful to seem true.
Itinerant preacher roils small southern townSelf-indulgent and calculating preacher takes advantage of a gullible man and his family and friends. This is a believable depiction of time and place; the writing is superb.
I was wondering whether to give this book one star, or two... But in the end there was nothing about this book that I liked. The characters were either too silly or too vicious. I am not really sure whether the story is based on true events, but I hope it's not.
Imbroglione e approfittatore di anime ingenue, Samuel Dye gira l'America rurale, spacciandosi per predicatore e salvatore di anime, inviato da Dio...
Wonderful characters only Caldwell could create. He was so far ahead of his time , I wish modern day writers would leave more to the readers imagination as Caldwell did.
Doskonale wystylizowana, wybitnie irytująca i bardzo autentyczna.
El día que Semon Dye aparece con su coche por la granja de Clay Hoorey para quedarse y predicar el domingo siguiente en la escuela de Rocky Comfort sabemos que esa llegada traerá problemas.
El capítulo en el que Semon predica en la escuela y cómo consigue que todos excepto una mujer "vean la luz" es completamente hilarante.
Lo pienso ahora y debía ser duro vivir en esa época, en medio del campo, con una sociedad puritana y falsa que permitía a gente como Clay tener cuatro esposas como si nada, la última de ellas menor de edad, o follarse a las negras como si fueran carne fresca, y luego ir a la iglesia y "ver la luz" para que el vecino no te critique por no verla.
Il solito Erskine Caldwell, diciamolo. Questo libro è meno conosciuto rispetto ai suoi classici, ed è un peccato, visti i continui picchi di profondità e miseria morale che sono la cifra distintiva dell'autore.Il vero protagonista del romanzo, il predicatore Semon, mi ha provocato un enorme malessere, come raramente mi è successo con un libro. Ma anche io, comeClay, rimango affascinato dalla sua figura diabolica e ingenua allo stesso tempo.
Erskine Caldwell must have been ridiculing religion with this book. A Journeyman preacher in the 1930's rural Georgia, takes over man's home, steals, gambles and drinks and to add insult to injury, steals the man's wife. He then delivers sermons to the country folk which whip them into a frenzy to "save" them. As usual Caldwell created memorable characters and draws emotions from the reader. I did not like the book.
