https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573572.The_Sword_in_the_Tree
My 7.5 year old has been ready to move into chapter books with a thicker plot, but thicker plot usually means chapters that are a bit too long.
I purchased this study guide to help me dig deeper and while some parts were a bit too old for him, a lot of it was just right.
I made him write some and dictate some and I think it rounded out the experience a lot.In the end, this was a great starter chapter book for my boy and the story was interesting enough to keep me interested as well.
“This book is about a boy named Shan. Shan has a father and his uncle tried to kill his father. And then the uncle took away the castle. Shan and his mother ran away. Shan met a knight who helped him. My favorite part is when Shan spent so much time with his mother.” - Leo, age 5 🙂
Izzy LOVED it!
An interesting twist to King Arthur and the desire to right a wrong.
An evil uncle's plan to take over his brother's kingdom and it is up to the son to regain the kingdom.Teachers can use this book to teach students about kingdoms, kings, queens, monarchy, loyalty, betrayal, and family. Teacher's can use this book to teach students how to have hope despite difficult circumstances.Students will like this book because the main character is a young boy who faces difficult trials but must remain hopeful and brave. Students will be able to relate to the young boy and make text-to-self-connections. Students will enjoy the adventures and surprises that this book brings.
This was a really good book! My mom was reading it to my younger siblings (ages 5 & 7) *This book is for ages 7-10* she loved it so much that she wanted me to read it. It took me 55 minutes to finish it and I would recommend it to anyone who loves books about medieval times. 5 stars! (PS: Yes I know that I'm reading a children's book, yes I know I'm turning 18 in in 2 days. Do I care? Apparently not. lol)
Read this book aloud with my 9 year old daughter. It is quick and light. I would think boys would like this book better than girls. Which is good to find a book for boys. Shan is a very likable character. It is too bad that in life we have to have proof before we are believed. What happened to honesty and integrity. I always like it when good wins and bad loses.
From Jack (age 7)...I thought it was an interesting book because it brought me excitement and made me want to finish the book. I was just reading one chapter a day and then I wanted to finish the book because it got interesting in the last 4 chapters so in one day I read 3 chapters.
This is like a first grader’s first introduction to every plot involving feudalism. Evil brother takes over and the good knight saves the day. I think my kids will like it, but there certainly isn’t anything original about The Sword in the Tree.
Join 11-year old Shan on an exciting journey to escape death and restore peace to Weldon Castle. This is a wonderful introduction for kids to the medieval world of knights, kings, peasants, and fair maidens.
A chapter book for young readers that tells the story of a young boy in medieval Britain who travels to King Arthur's castle in Camelot to ask the king if he'll help get rid of his unscrupulous uncle who has taken over his father's castle and usurped it as his own.
Historical Fiction book- Shan a son of a Lord goes on a journey to see King Arthur because his wicked Uncle took over his kingdom.
BOB Racine 2014-15. Short chapter book set in Arthurian times. Although knights are referred to a lot, this does not have a lot of action. For early chapter book readers, plot is very simplistic.
A very well written children's chapter book! Adventure, mystery, twists and more set in King Arthur's England.
My five-year-old son is currently very interested in knights and we had this book recommended to us by a friend.
I started off reading two chapters at bedtime like we normally do with longer books, but the first night he begged me to keep reading, and then the second night he begged even harder!
The chapters are a great length for younger children and the story-telling is interesting enough to even hold an adult's attention.
I was just as anxious to read the next chapter as my son was!
Highly recommend for read alouds or independent reading for any child around 5 and up.
Shan's father, Lord Weldon, is betrayed by his brother, Lionel, who takes over his castle.
With his father gone, his mother grieved and fearful, it's up to Shan, as the rightful heir of Weldon castle, to find a way to take back what is rightfully theirs.
The King sends a knight on his behalf to aid Shan in righting the wrong done to his family and reclaim what is theirs.An interesting children's book that teaches on courage and embracing responsibility.
I started reading it as part of research I was doing regarding the mechanics of children's books but found myself pleasantly hooked.
I chose this book for my children based on a trusted booklist, but had little interest in it for me.
It was a quick read, an early chapter book with short chapters, but engaging.
It’s set during King Arthur’s reign and follows a young boy who longs to be a brave and true knight like his father.
The boy is kind, brave, respectful, and stands boldly for what is right.
This is the kind of example I am always grateful to find in a book for children.
This was such a great book!
Reading this as an adult, this book still threw me some things I didn't see coming.
While written as a beginner chapter book, it was also very interesting, which is hard to find.
Many books targeted to this age range bores the parent and often the child as well.
Shan must find a way to help his family and save his castle.
All hope seems lost when he sets out on his way too find King Arthur and ask for his help in his fight.
Or is all hope lost?
My 5 year old boy absolutely loved this book! As an adult I thought it was a great story as well. The writing was fantastic- I was surprised, for a child's book, how well the story was developed and how much detail the author was able to use in a small amount of time. This was the perfect adventure for my young boy and I to read together! I know he'll be excited to read it again on his own when he's older. Highly recommend!
Young Shan’s evil uncle takes over the castle after his father’s death. Fearing for their lives Shan and his mother run away. Shan eventually journeys to Camelot to beg assistance from King Arthur. Great story for young readers. Only thing I didn’t like was how weak the mother was. She was always asking her very young son what to do. BOB 3/4
Even though it's basically just a leveled reader, it's an exciting story. I just can't get into Arthurian, though, even at this level... everyone has a role, and nobody, not even our hero, has an actual personality.
I didn't expect much, but I actually really liked it!
A quick and engaging read for little ones. It was a tale full of adventure, knights, and Camelot. I highly recommend reading this one aloud with your children.
Really quick read. A fun book, especially for a little boy.
Lionel is evil, the dad is not dead but trapped in the dungeon and I liked it
Abrupt ending...A good story of a young boy's during the days of Camelot. Good read aloud. Abrupt ending though. Good for young people to read.
For the Book Battle.
A great chapter book for young boys who are just getting into chapter books. My eight-year-old son loved this one. I am glad that now that I have read it we can talk about it.
Excellent early reader about bravery.
This book inspired my young man to write his own knight story!
