https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25148.The_Fuck_Up
I’d like to make it clear I’m also not reading this book solely for the moronic glee garnered from typing “The Fuck-Up” repeatedly, as a matter of fact I try to make sure that I spell fuck as ‘f*ck’ when writing reviews for some inexplicable reason, if only to show my desire to conform to some social standards which may or may not be part of the GoodReads Terms Of Service which I never read, so I guess I can at least try to meet them halfway should this confrontational word butt heads with their whims.
(At one point I calculated that the book must be set in early 1984, only to decide it must be later, since there's a remark about Bernhard Goetz, who only became famous at the end of 1984.
Oh, and "the fuck-up" of the title isn't just the narrator; it's also, vaguely, something in his past that's led to his downward spiral, as well as his misjudgment of the only person in the book who ultimately comes through for him.
I'm going through a relationship crisis right now, and for some twisted reason I felt that reading and carrying this book around would be like a little act of rebellion - would let me "own" my own fucked-up-edness.
Reading with great interest...OK, well now the action is centering around a gay porn theatre, not a place I would have been in the 80's, and the characters and tone are becoming a bit more like Toole's "A Confederacy of Dunces," which is not a total plus to me, but it is funny and breezy and laced with morbidly fascinating grotesqueries.
The narrator, for whom the novel is clearly named, makes a series of bad decisions which invariably yield temporary benefits before leaving him worse off than before.
In his memorable narrative voice, these stories are fun to read.Abruptly though, the book shifts dramatically.
For a reader who can put up with such an unbelievable anticlimax, there's still plenty to enjoy in this book.
Recommended for wannabe hipsters, beat literature aficionados, punks and people who want to open a novel with THE FUCK-UP printed across it in public places (glad I didn't read this on a Kindle but instead in mass market copy form at a resort on the Red Sea).
Sort of an interesting look at how someone fairly stable could wind up homeless. I liked it at the start, but I found it on the whole to be horribly erratic, with some smallish moments gone over in intense detail and much more important sections just completely glossed over. Also the ending was just ridiculously not believable; it felt like he just woke up one morning and said, "Hmm, I'm tired of writing this book, soooo guess I'll just end it here." Very disappointing.
To pick up a book and realize that you're currently living in that situation doesn't make the book more interesting.
Granted I'm not as fucked up as the main character, but I'm sure as hell not that far removed from his life.
BUt alas those are my own issues, not goodreads...Even though I finished reading the book almost 12 hours ago I cannot recall the characters name or what silly situations that he got himself in.
Yay for main character!Unless you have worked at a movie theater/currently work at a movie theater I don't recommend this.
I got kicked out of the public library for laughing out loud at this book, which may be a better story than the book itself. I happened to read this book at a time in my life where I could relate to the main character so I ended up enjoying the book immensely. Still, the librarian seemed to take offense that not only was I laughing at a book aloud, but the book had a curse word in the title. Fuck her. I thought it was funny.
crap. no continuity. the guy didn't even know what he was talking about. even mildly homophobic and offensive, and not in a good way. god. i should have known better... i mean MTV books? oops.
eh. he's a fuck up. he fuck's up. he tries t not fuck up, fails, and fucks up again.
It's a book that should be revisited (if it was ever visited).
My friends that want to be writers all live in New York, and this is a book about what happens when you go to New York to be a writer.
While a lot of the events fit snuggly within the dream of big city life and Bukowski-from the gutter failure-cum-success, it's a a believable story of failure.
It is also the story of a generation without opportunity to realize lofty dreams created by a lavish adolescence.
I read this in one sitting and didn’t get bored, only stopped to go to the bathroom and make a snack, which is saying an awful lot for me, especially lately. It was funny, moving, sad, interesting, weird, heartbreaking, and sweet. The main character isn’t perfect by any stretch and does some fucked-up things (obviously, hence the title), but it’s hard not to root for him, especially in the end when he’s such a fucking ridiculous mess.
I would highly reccomend this book to anyone with balls enough to explore a world completely unlike his own. This book follows one 20 something's unambitious but not exactly apathetic foray through his NYC life. He fails at relationships, keeping a job, keeping a roof over his head and via all three and a suicide learns the only lesson there is to learn from life, namely, how to learn contentment even when things aren't awesome. Excellent, real, gritty prose. A shorter more approachable "Infinite Jest" (from the 20 pages I've read of that novel).
For me, this book, the feelings that it conjured, and my overall thoughts about it, can be summed up in a single quote, "As the components of your life are stripped away, after all of the a,bit ions and hopes vaporize, you reach self-reflective starkness--the repetitious plucking of a single overwound string."A dark, comedic journey that left me feeling as though I wasn't alone in the world. And for that, I am thankful. 4 out of 5 stars.
Nersesian does a great job of keeping the reader concerned even though the main character isn't particularly likeable. Really, he's kind of a schmuck. Still, I was concerned about what was going to happen to him. And so many things do. Wildly improbably, the events are still believable. Vividly described as well. The result is a very entertaining novel.
I hope Nersesian didn't win an award for this book because to be honest, I can't be bothered to check his profile page. Thanks to the mediocrity of The Fuck-Up, however, now I can enjoy whatever I plan on reading next, even if it's a Meg Cabot.

Read it a while back and remember enjoying it and thinking it was a book I would like to keep in the library for future browsing. I definitely remember my 6 year old daughter reading the title out loud which was soon followed by my wife telling me that book was getting donated to Goodwill. Thanks Kid!
I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would. It was dark and absurd and even deep at times.
It's presaged by one of the funniest comedic scenes in the novel, which revolves around a misunderstanding between him and woman.
His resourcefulness is admirable, he thinks up a number of clever scams and farces, but they always seem to lead him deeper and deeper into the lie until his position becomes untenable.Despite his internal narrative helping the reader empathise he's not really a very nice character but he only comes across as flawed rather than terrible.
I think a second reading might show up more examples such as that and for me that would push it up from four to five stars.This isn't an uplifting story as the ending is fairly uninspiring and yet after everything he goes through there is a sense of relief.
What happens next is a series of events that cascade on him making him more and more miserable.A lot of times I felt like the phrasing and storytelling was forced and it seemed to lack a direct plot.
The story feels like he said, "Hey I got hit real hard with a train of bad luck, but now everything's not quite so bad." It's told lightheartedly when I think it needs to be more dark.
It has some intersting events by themselves but does not feel like one cohesive story.
Inside i found this book sitting there, and was totally captured by the title.
The middle of the book is great but after that it just crashes, the ending becoming a complete mess.
The protagonist is bland and unidentifiable, while all the minor characters are far more richer and interesting (which is fine, i guess).and, as a writer, I strive to be specific in my use of language and not vague or "arty", and the statement "violently silent" on page 141 just screeched so loud my reading came to a complete halt.
HOW IS SILENCE VIOLENT?
I remember finding this on the shelf in the St. Augustine Barnes & Noble when I was twenty and being like Whoah that says FUCK right on the cover, and buying it and reading it and liking it kind of pretty okay but NOW I live in New York and I see Arthur Nersesian all over the place and the other day he came by and was like "Hey someone just gave me a copy of my book, want it?" and signed it all nice and so I went home and read it yesterday and oh man!
"You know you've been in a place too long when every other locale serves as a reference for some sad recollection.""I was moving away from myself; silly ideas and images moved their way across the desert of my mind.
I no longer had control; all I could do was watch them and react; sometimes I'd laugh, sometimes I'd cry.
The great caravan of thoughts passed more and more rarely until soon there was just the great desert: tabula rasa."Funny!
But it's okay: you can laugh.
The book with the greatest verismilitude to my life that I've read. Kind of makes me wonder how unique my experience in life is. Of course their is less sadness and debt in this book than in my life. I'm not sure if that makes my life any the more unique. In short, this is the type of book that makes you laugh where you should cry. Unabashedly inappropriate and all the more enjoyable because of it.
A modern day masterpiece. Classic literature with late 20th century flair. Never a dull moment. Flawless storytelling. A non-stop adventure full of a few ups and a lot of downs. The uneasy yet often fulfilling life of a homeless romantic is on display here and I had a hard time putting the book down. It left me completely satisfied, but also wanting more, which of course means it was the perfect length. Highly recommended for fans of top shelf writing and never giving up.
Set mostly in lower Manhattan in the 1980's, this is Nersesian's first published book and is very atmospheric, moving & personal. The plots and anti-social situations make the book a fevered read. Also recommend "Chinese Take Out" which is mostly set in the East Village and by the same author.
This was an interesting book, by a guy I'd never heard of...Reminds me of on the road in New York.
Unimpressive. Although the story is engrossing, Nersesian's prose style is forced--it seems to me as though he were trying too hard to produce a hybrid of Trainspotting and The Catcher in the Rye.
I bought this book at a Park Slope stoop sale for 50 cents because it had the word FUCK on it. The book was a bore. The outside of the book is more interesting than the inside. Boo
Depressing but good.
