https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22232.Stargirl
Classics are the books you want to immerse yourself in: the books you wish you could live in with the characters that you wish were your friends.I'll say it again: Stargirl is a classic.The story starts with Leo Borlock, who moved to Mica, Arizona at the age of twelve.
The kind of magic where you still believe things can be wondrous.In the story, Leo soon realizes that Stargirl might be someone he could love.Unfortunately, high school students don't always believe in (or appreciate) magic like Stargirl's.
Technically speaking I love everything about this book: the characters, the story, the cover art.
I read this in middle school as required reading and absolutely LOVED it, but coming back to it years later, I couldn't help but notice some of its flaws. I got very attached to the story despite it being less than 200 pages and I do love the moral that Spinelli is trying to get across, but I was not a big fan of the characters. Although, with a book this short, exaggerated characters are pretty much a necessity. I recommend this book to everyone, though, especially middle schoolers who feel the need to conform.
Very sweet. I had this book lying around and picked it up to give myself a break from the Holocaust Monster I've been chipping away at for the past month, and it definitely did the trick. The kids seem a little innocent - more like elementary school than high school - but dammit why CAN'T there be beautiful and magical teenagers who hold hands at the movies and give their friends cupcakes and valentines? Why do they have to do drugs and have sex and be JERKS all the time?
"Nothing’s more fun than being carried away."  Stargirl is the happiest, bravest, most carefree, most non-conformist girl you will ever meet. She is everything every school girl wishes she could be but will never dare to be. She does the last thing someone who wants to fit in will ever do.• She smiles at everyone.• She dances in the rain.• She wears the strangest outfit and wears no makeup. (Not anything like that. I’m exaggerating. Lol.)• She sings every celebrant a happy birthday with her u
With a personality like hers, how do you think will she survive high school or better yet, life?
Can you lose your favorite person without losing yourself?"   I like how the story eased its way through the end without having to go through dramatic complications and yet still managing to achieve completeness in its theme and plot.
It is a non-imposing moralistic story and a very uplifting short read that I'm sure will find a way to spark that starlight in every reader's heartRecommended to middle-schoolers, teenagers, children, readers who feel young at heart, adults and oh well, everyone!^^
After his collection is mentioned in a local newspaper, Leo receives a second porcupine necktie for his birthday, left anonymously by Stargirl.
Hillari Kimble, the most popular girl at Leo's school, declares that Stargirl is a fake, and speculation and rumors abound.
Though at first rejected by most of the students, Stargirl gains a measure of popularity by joining the cheerleading squad.
او مورد توجه خیلی هاست، اما چون متفاوت است، و دگراندیش، عده ای دوستش ندارند، و از او میخواهند: همانند همه باشد.
دختر ستاره ای عاشق صلح است، عاشق عکس گرفتن از پیتر است.
She is, in almost every way, unconventional.The voice of the book is a young man who becomes fascinated by Stargirl and befriends her, even though many of her antics make her an outcast, otherwise.
For this boy, she experiments with being conventional for awhile.The book is fascinating.
We must change all elements of our behavior that are in conflict with gospel commandments, covenants, and culture." The genius of it is that the book does this without being particularly preachy.In its philosophy, and to a lesser extent in its style, the book has strong similarities to Bridge to Terabithia.
For some weird reason I couldn't put this book down! You should read it. It grabbed my attention and I am a very picky reader! :)
if this book was a person i would kill them.
i would kill them in front of there mother and make them swallow there own heart.
it showed a sad message that HAS BENN PLAYED OUT OVER AND OVER again.
if you were locked in a box and told not to look at sun light for 12 years this book might be refreashing if not then dont bother.
here is the WHOLE STORY i'll save you time well she is differnt meets kids and then marginalized and then surprisingly becomes not differnt.
here i saved you 186 pages of pure crap going in to your brain.
it was refreshing to read about stargirl's genuine kindness and individuality. i liked it. we want to dance to the music in our own heads, but we don't because of the looks, whispers and stares we'd get. stargirl is the person we all want to be, while leo reminds us of the person most of us are.i hope one day to be as brave as stargirl
This is one of those rare reads where you can allow your heart to open up wide and let the story sink deep. A series for every teenage girl: just reading it makes you a better person, teaching you to laugh, to listen, to enjoy, to love, to care...In spite of the attractive eccentricity of the main character, Stargirl is more real than any other book for teens. It is set in the erratic climate of teen emotions, realistically depicted through ordinary events and conversations. These are presented
A series for every teenage girl: just reading it makes you a better person, teaching you to laugh, to listen, to enjoy, to love, to care...In spite of the attractive eccentricity of the main character, Stargirl is more real than any other book for teens.
These are presented from a variety of points of view, creating a web of relationships and perspectives that reflects the reality of a life truly lived with others.We gain a richer understanding of humanity, one that’s not merely theoretical but gained from practice, from emotions stretched and purified through giving.
They teach you how to truly live in the present, sharing your life with others.
This book had me completely mesmerized.My favorite line: “We discovered the color of each other’s eyes.” (Chapter 9)Actually, there were lots of lines I loved in that book but that line in that moment when people are starting to take notice and embrace their individuality stands out the most for me.Of course, my heart broke for Leo. Thirty years later, he still thinks of Stargirl (the girl with many names, by the way); he still wakes up to her laughter (“…a second sunrise to his day.”) I know a lot of people would say this book was too preachy, this book was too unbelievable, this book was too sappy, etc.
Like, the idea of singing to people on their birthdays during lunch.
I don't think the author's right that we all like some validation and attention--I think if I'd been faced with someone serenading me in the lunchroom in high school I would have either skipped school or skipped lunch, because I would have been beyond mortified.
I think the goal to be outward-oriented, as in looking beyond ourselves, is very good and something we should all strive for, but I didn't like that she didn't take into consideration people's feelings.
Also, she was too good, too careless of people's opinions, too saint like, too selfless; I guess to me she felt too perfect, not real.
Stargirl was the most pure and precious thing, ever. My Luna Lovegood of today’s world and I want to keep her safe always. I loved this book even though I hated the people around her—but that’s the point, isn’t it? The writing was gorgeous and the characters were real and raw. Definitely a new fave. I will be rereading and annotating this one for sure.
But here's the thing: I did not like Star Girl.
Normally when I read stories about the quirky outcast, I want to shield them from cruelty of the popular crowd, but I found myself sympathizing with students at a loss of how to interpret this strange girl.
I found myself siding with the crowd and I know had I met a girl like that in high school I would have rolled my eyes at her theatrics and ignored her too refusing to allow her to always be the center of attention.
I have a feeling the author intended readers to be charmed by Star Girl and experience her social roller coaster on her emotional level, but I didn't.
"We joined her as she sang 'Happy Birthday' to us in the lunchroom.
We heard her greet us in the hallways and classrooms, and we wondered how she knew our names and our birthdays.
She had no friends, yet she was the friendliest person in school.In her answers in class, she often spoke of sea horses and stars, but she did not know what a football was.She said there was no television in her house.She was elusive.
We did not know what to make of her.
Edit: dropped to 2 stars So I originally DNF'd this book at 75% and gave it a 2 star rating.
You're supposed to see how shitty these people treat Stargirl and realize that you can't bully others for being different.
So I got the point, it's just not done well.I maintain my 2 star rating but I am giving it an extra 3 star because I liked the ending.
I liked to see the impact that Stargirl had on people and this school and I hope that she did really well for herself in life.
Well this was sad. It was good... but a sad ending.
Stargirl might lack social filters, but Leo behaves like a complete ass to her, resulting in the story's somewhat bitter ending.
She's gone, so she'll always be exactly as she was at sixteen and he can idolize her and righteously lament how perfect she was and how stupid he was.) But Stargirl doesn't deserve the shitty way everyone has treated her, and she is probably at her most realistically human when she changes herself out of desire for Leo's acceptance.
Soon, all of the high school cannot resist her charm, and she has the entire community under her spell.
Soon, Stargirl is ostracized for all of the wonderful things that make her special.
Will Stargirl recover and ever be loved for just being herself?I loved this book.
I haven't been this happy about a book in a long time!One small note: in high school oratorical contests, the speaker sends in their speech to a committee ahead of time, and cannot deviate from that written speech at the time of delivery.
❤...حقاًً لقد أحببتك يا "ستار جيرل" لا تظن إنه يمكنك أن تخون نفسك وتصبح آخر لكى يرضى عنك الجميع عليك ان تكون نفسك ..نفسك فحسب وخاصة إن كنت متصالحاً مع ذاتك و تملك قلباً طيباً مُحباً يسعى دوماً لإدخال السعادة على قلوب الآخرين..
The issues he tackles in this book -- identity, conformity/nonconformity, and peer pressure -- are all relevant for middle school-aged readers, which is who this book is best suited for.
Also, I think he does a good job of sending the "right" message without being preachy.At the same time, though, I wasn't totally invested in the characters.
I kind of felt like Stargirl was a bit too "out there" and sometimes though it was difficult to garner sympathy for a character that was so totally clueless.
All in all, I liked the book a lot but felt as though I would've liked something that was a bit more grounded and less abstract.
This was like reading a John Green book, before John Green books existed. There was just something special about it, that I couldn't quite put my finger on, but I really enjoyed the message behind it!
Wow. Wow wow wow. This was my first time ever reading this and I loved it SO MUCH. Such a great story. I'll definitely be rereading this in the future.
For Leo Borlock, it's a mixture of fear and excitement that has him falling in love with the mysterious Stargirl--and a desire to see her on the Hot Seat, the in-school television show he runs with his best friend, Kevin.
The kids at school embrace Stargirl--her quirkiness, her individuality, her enthusiasm and exuberance for everything she does.
Suddenly, she's not the popular girl that everyone wants to be around.
Except for Leo, who's in love with the enigmatic Stargirl, a girl who whole-heartedly loves him back.
Until Leo is forced to choose between the affections of an entire school full of classmates and the maybe-too-individual Stargirl.
I guess my problem with this story was that I really didn’t buy Stargirl.
She’s so self-confident/oblivious that she doesn’t seem to notice or care that the whole school is giving her the silent treatment.
She’s extremely kind and compassionate.
She’s the perfect model of a nonconforming individual.
I would have had more respect and admiration for Stargirl if she was an individual in spite of understanding social norms- rather than because she wasn’t aware of them.
I didn’t like Leo much either, although his behavior was more realistic, because when you love someone, you stick up for them, you stick with them, even when it’s tough.
این کتاب یه بخشی از قلبتونو تسخیر میکنه.جدی میگم.استار گرل فقط یک دختر نیست.انسانیته.محبته و تمام اح
Can't believe I'm just now reading this book.Everyone should read this.Everyone.We need more Stargirls in this world.
He gives us an idea on how different Stargirl could be in a normal person’s point of view.
Stargirl, being homeschooled, decides to come out of her shell.
One time, Stargirl goes to a football match, which no one almost ever watches.
Stargirl was a sight to watch.
For others, we might find this hateful (just imagine your cheerleader cheering for the other team), but this proves the depths and lengths of Stargirl's naïvety and pure-heartedness.
Leo, is and always has been amazed by Stargirl.
Leo enjoyed being with Stargirl.
How Stargirl ever manages it, was a wonder to him.
I understand that Mica High is a small school, but no way in a real school would everyone shun somebody like that.
The whole book feels like a grade schooler's imagining of high school.2.
The book sort of read like a list.
I never said that.As short as this book is, it took me two days of forced reading to get through what was essentially a giant list.
Like this phrase, here: She faced the mountains, bathed in sun syrup, her face as still and peaceful as I've ever seen a face.Wtf?
لم أتوقع ان تعجبني رواية كهذه أظنها صنعت للمراهقين البطلة ستار جيرل فتاة لم تذهب للمدارس وتعلمت أغلب
