https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22028.Omerta
This quote from Wikipedia says it better than I can, "Jules Siegel, who had worked closely with Puzo at Magazine Management Company, speculated that "Omertà" may have been completed by 'some talentless hack.' Siegel also acknowledges the temptation to 'rationalize avoiding what is probably the correct analysis -- that [Puzo:] wrote it and it is terrible.'"Maybe he was trying to emulate Hemingway with short sentences and a bare bones plot.
I'm going to remember Puzo as the author of "The Godfather", not this disappointing effort.
I am pretty sure Puzo didn't write this one. I am always dubious of posthumous breaths found locked away in writers' drawers after their death. Cool cover though.
I am enjoyed reading this book. Alhamdulillah. My favourite character is Astorre Viola.
Omerta/ Mario Puzo, newyourk: ballantine books, 2000, 369p
I read the Godfather 15 years ago, Omertà was a reminder to how beautifully Mario Puzo wrote. #theguywiththebookreview presents Omertà by Mario Puzo. Characters: I couldn't help but picture Al Pacino as the protagonist. There are some similarities between the two but the main difference being that Astorre Viola was trained to become 'Michael Corleone'. Rosie stood out for obvious reasons (people who've read it might still remember her). And ofcourse Washington was almost unreal! Plenty of great
Rosie stood out for obvious reasons (people who've read it might still remember her).
And ofcourse Washington was almost unreal!‎ Plenty of great characters are involved, you never get bored.
Character development was not really expected but I loved the way Astorre evolved through the book.Plot: Revenge is a fruit best served with the trigger, but more than that it almost seemed like chess.
How killing just for money is not a big deal, how killing your competitor is a means to an end.When to pick this up:‎ It's a great leisurely read, nothing too heavy.
Could be a great book for people in reading slumps :)
Good story, good drama, fast-paced with good detail and well-rounded characters.A good, quick read. Especially if you liked Puzo’s work other from The Godfather.
Then (view spoiler)[ the foster father, a powerful but retired Don himself, was assassinated by an unknown enemy (hide spoiler)] forcing the adopted son and his siblings to band together to face off the unknown enemy who not only wants their fortune, but also their lives.The first half of the book is great, I really like how the cops, the FBI, the hired killers, the gangsters are written and I also like the description of how they run their businesses.
This was Puzo's last novel before he died, and I must say it read very much like an old man clinging to an excellent reputation.
There felt, even from the first few chapters, to be far too much going on and too many people involved: whilst mafia's certainly do contain more people than first appears on the surface, to work a novel of the mafia, one would have to forget this notion slightly if a reader is to make sense of what is happening.
Once the rest of Puzo's works have been read, maybe I shall return to this one...
faith and honor are the pedestal of trust and soulfame and shame are like the same thing if you try to build your soul with steel of faith and honorso this is worth to die and kill forremember, just never ever eat you own ass even if when they are biting off your ass at the time
As usual Puzo never lets me down! Incredible. This is how a book should be written. I'm so satisfied.
Very entertaining mob novel from the late Mario Puzo.
It's got a faster pace than "The Godfather" with less attention to psychological detail.
Whereas "The Godfather" was a story with deep characters and emotion, "Omerta" is more of a fun thriller.
Puzo writes so well here, it's a full mob drama with all of the slow stuff cut out.
The novel continues Puzo's obsession of organized criminals with honor and corrupt greedy law enforcement butting heads.
If you can deal with the fact that this book is a bit of Mafia propaganda, you'll be very entertained.
All the depth and character development of a Scooby Doo script.
Mario Puzo's writing has never failed to excite me...the story was as gripping as his other works..t
Far less charming and inferior in terms of plot and characterization , this novel by Mario Puzo is still an atempt to foreshadow the Sicilian code of silence. lets the sky fall , but dare not speak about your family , friends or even foes , in front of anyone. A Fine read but still way inferior as compared to Godfather.
A true masterpiece that lives up to its reputation. Words fall short to explain the magnificence of Omerta, sure the ending might seem a tad bit too far fetched (An overtly happy ending for a book about Mafiosos), but the character developments were more than adequate to lay a reasonable ground for it.
Rewelacyjna i wciągająca opowieść o zemście, intrygach i ludzkich namiętnościach. O ludziach, którzy w imię wierności wyznawanym zasadom i rodzinie są gotowi na wszystko. Fani Ojca chrzestnego powinni być nią całkowicie usatysfakcjonowani.Cała opinia:http://www.kacikzksiazka.pl/2018/05/o...
At this point, I doubt there will ever be a Mario Puzo book that I don’t like. He writes the best Sicilian crime dramas ever written. Omertà may not be his best one, but it’s still highly enjoyable.
This book is so good that I'm considering joining the Mafia.
El ritmo es bueno, fluido; las descripciones de Sicilia y del sentido de pertenencia de Don Aprile y Astorre son muy vivas; las escenas de acción están bien desarrolladas; los giros de trama tienen absoluto sentido, al igual que las muertes.
Ese cuidado y respeto por los demás personajes me gustó mucho, sobre todo porque en muchas novelas el punto de mira siempre está sobre el personaje principal y deja de lado por completo al resto de la gente.Porque me gustó la trama, los personajes, el ambiente de mafia y la forma en la que todo se desarrolla, no solo quiero leer El Padrino, sino que le doy cinco estrellas de cinco a este libro.
BANKS!) Of course, happy endings seldom occur in real life.
When one day a car stops in front of the church and two shooters end his life, there is none to seek vengeance.
At least, that is the story told to him his entire life.
Astorre was mafioso by blood, being the son of the great Don Zeno of Sicily.
Before his death, Don Raymonde had passed his banks to Astorre, rather than his three children, and entrusted him with the protection of his family.
To me, it has all the elements of a classic Puzo tale.
Mafia intrigue and flashbacks, treachery, a budding yet damaged love story and ruthless characters on both sides of the law.
I really loved it!
Astorre Viola is up there with Cross Clericuzio as one of my favourite Puzo characters.
Yes, some of the prose is 'dumbed down' from some of his earlier work (put down to the fact the someone else finished the manuscript after Puzo's death but I think they did a good job) and some of the more pulpy elements could have been less pulpy, lol, but all in all, this a big rollicking tale that deserves repeated readings.It doesn't have the 'high class' sheen of The Godfather, admittedly.
This is the second book that I have read by Mario Puzo, and it was thoroughly enjoyable.
Like "The Sicilian", it uses fiction to give the reader insight into the workings of the Mafia.
The 'hero' of the book is Astorre Viola, who has much to do to save the honour of Don Raymonde Aprile, his uncle who adopted him as a small child in Sicily.
Raymonde is murdered in cold blood, and Astorre decides that his death must be avenged.
I confined my reading of this book to short journeys on public transport.
It made the journeys seem even shorter.
Haah,akhir yg bagus, walaupun ada sedikit ganjalan.Mengapa Aspinella tidak mati.Dunia begitu abu-abu, tidak hanya sekedar hitam putih.Begitulah dunia yg digambarkan Puzzo dalam novelnya.Seorang kriminal besar yg juga dipuja sebagai dermawan dan penolong sejati. Pahlawan atau penjahat,tergantung dari mana kita memandang.
great book by mario puzo, if you like godfather, you should read this book...a story of mafioso family...what i like about italian mafia is their loyalty to the family, they will do anything for their family even they must kill somebody for that...
Mario Puzo is great and his writting was so clear and pleasant that I'm looking forward to read all his books. Althoug I expected here something as The Godfather and I was a little disappointed.
Donova kći Nicole je odmah opisana kao feministica s kojom se sam Don ne slaže, koja je bila zaljubljena u Astorrea i koja je postala super uspješna odvjetnica (jer što će drugo) i čiji lik graniči između stereotipa zlobne uspješne kučke i lošeg pisanja.
Rosie koja pomaže Astorreu je pak opisana kao sponzoruša čija najveća kvaliteta je što može zavesti bilo koga i to fino naplatiti jer ona ima ovisnost prema "novcu i finim stvarima".
Četvrti ženski lik koji se pojavljuje je supruga FBI agenta koja je opisana kao maltene savršeno biće kojoj agent ne može lagati, a mafijaš se zaljubljuje u njezin predivni karakter na temelju tajno snimljene snimke na kojoj ona priča.
I honestly think this wasn't Puzo. if you love him don't read this one . its a very ordinary book nothing like The Godfather or The Sicilian
"One day his son would go to America, a land of vengeance, mercy, and magnificent possibility.".page 369
Omerta sendiri menurut World Book Dictionary artinya adalah hukum kehormatan Sisilia yang melarang pemberian informasi tentang kejahatan-kejahatan yang dianggap merupakan urusan orang-orang yang terlibat.Kisah ini dimulai pada 1967.Saat itu Don Zeno tengah sekarat di rumahnya di desa Castellammare Del Golfo, Sisilia.
Sebagai seorang boss mafia, ia dikenal amat dermawan sekaligus juga tegas dan kejam pada mereka yang dianggap mengganggu bisnisnya.
Di akhir-akhir usianya ia sempat menikahi seorang perempuan muda dan dari perkawinan itu lahir seorang anak lelaki yang kini berusia dua tahun.Sebelum Don Zeno mengembuskan napas terakhirnya, ia menitipkan putra tunggalnya itu, Astorre Zeno, kepada sahabat kepercayaannya, Raymonde Aprile.
Kepada orang-orang ia bahkan mengakui Astorre sebagai keponakannya.Raymonde Aprile sendiri memiliki tiga orang anak, yaitu : Valerius, Marcantonio, dan Nicole.
Astorre Viola discovers his roots in those old traditions, finds his trunk amidst a forest of new and simple lusts and his branches reaching to claim his destiny.
Everything about Omerta challenges the reader's expectations about the life of a mafioso and the final destination to which his path ultimately leads.
But, unlike Michael Corleone and Salvatori Giulianno, Astorre Viola stands as a hero who takes on the challenge of power and destiny but defends himself against corruption and death.
I suppose it depends on how the reader feels about power and justice - destiny and choice.
