https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2666353-the-book-of-hallowe-en
Hace muchos años me enteré de la existencia de este libro y traté de conseguirlo en formato físico a toda costa.
A poco de terminar este mes de Halloween, decidí finalmente leerlo y tener una probada de tradiciones reales, raíces celtas, hogueras, ofrendas, supersticiones y leyendas, entre otras cosas hermosas de ese estilo.Lo disfruté un montón, y en definitiva son varias las cosas que me ha aportado este libro, pero me quedo con dos en particular: en principio, me encantó conocer a fondo los orígenes de mi celebración favorita.
Además, entendí mucho mejor una de mis películas favoritas, que resulta ser The Wicker Man. Y por otro lado, también me encantó la parte literaria, sobre todo en poesía.
The best thing about this book is that the author quotes A LOT of literature works (some of them of the 19th century, some of them much older) that examplify in a different, more poetic way the traditions and beliefs that the author just described.Reading this book will give you a really good insight of 19th century folklore (in the British Isles mostly but also France, while a few other places are quickly mentioned) and will offer you some information about the pre-christian background of Halloween.A really nice read for those interested in the history of Halloween and folklore (celtic in particular).
Make sure and read the old publication and not the conservatively published version that literally admonishes the 1960s for ruining the view of history.They also didn't reprint the great photos.I read the 1919 publication of this on archive.org and would have adored it as an elementary kid in the 80s.
I just love the photographs of table centerpieces and illustrations, such as The Witch of the Walnut-tree.Another suggested selection on that site is Games for Hallow-e'en by Mary F.
Blain(1912), though they could lend a person to becoming too searching for meaning in the Hallowe'en party divinations, depending on their temper.
spelling is important for the search function on the site) on archive.org for more Edwardian zany reading.
The book of Hallowe"en was originally published in 1919 by a Massachusetts Liberian Ruth Edna Kelley.
These was the first attempt of gathering information on the history of Halloween.
This book gives us an overview of the some of the cultural traditions from old Europe.
The book gives a glimpse imto the 19th and 20th, both in Europe and in America on how Halloween was celebrated.
This book opens a window to the past and helps us to understand the history a little better.
This edition is missing illustrations that appear in other editions.
Though maybe some of the sociological implications cited here are obsolete, Ruth Edna Kelley's book (equally entertaining and "educational") is a fascinating examination of the panoply of world influences and harvest/death holidays which combined over time into the American, and eventually international, celebration of Halloween. Extensive quoting of vintage pre-20th century Halloween literature adds to the evocative nature.
Otherwise the book was an interesting collection of history that spans back into pagan practices that were absorbed and adapted to the Christian religion.
Otherwise many helped to emphasize the point although a select few didn't seem like they were meant but were thrown in there to break the monotony up.
Due to some of the practices that have interested me I have found a recipe for Lambs'-wool (couldn't find it with the actual milk being used) and Sowen (Soul Cakes) that I would like to give a try and who knows these could be for this upcoming Halloween.....
This wasn't anything like I thought it was going to be.
I felt like the book never really went into depth into anything.
It feels like it's all skimmed over on Halloween and was more on stuff like superstitions to people getting married and what different countries did.
If it wasn't talking about that it was on folklore on fairies, gnomes, little people and all those fairy tales characters.
It would have been more enjoyable if it was really going into the folklore and superstitions from all different countries about Halloween.
Overall I feel very disappointed with this book.
Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849) whose only completed novel, The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket was highly influential on Herman Melville, is best known for his morbid short stories of horror and mystery such as "The Black Cat", "The Cask of Amontillado", "The Fall of the House of Usher", "The Masque of the Red Death", "The Murders in the Rue Morgue", "The Pit and the Pendulum","The Premature Burial", "The Purloined Letter" and "The Tell-Tale Heart".
An important historical book, but quite 'dry' to read.There is no denying that Ruth Edna Kelley has done a superb job of chronicling the history of Halloween traditions, but that doesn't mean that these traditions are interesting.Most of the Halloween traditions aimed at predicting your death, or (groan) when you would find your future husband.What this book has achieved however, is that it has secured my belief that we have a much more fun and worthwhile holiday today.An important book, but only worth reading for the sake of reading it.
A great view into the history of the holiday. It's interesting to see what traditions have morphed and changed through years and across cultures. Note: this book mainly focuses on Europe and traditions from northern regions.
Title: The Book of HalloweenAuthor: Ruth Edna KelleyRead by: Oliver ValePublisher: New Paradigm Press AudioLength: Approximately 2 hours and 31 minutesSource: Review Copy from Narrator Oliver Vale – Thank-you!I am a big fan of holidays.
As a child, I used to love to read every book I could get my hands on to find out more about the background of all of the holidays I loved to celebrate.
Oliver Vale bring the book to life as an audiobook narrating all of tales, myths, and legends that make up the background of Halloween across different countries in the world (mostly Great Britain).
An absolute minefield of Halloween themed information, from ancient religious practices, to more contemporary table arrangements, Ruth Edna Kelley has dug deep - including ample references to literature and poetry which references her theme.This was one of the first forays into documenting Halloween through history, written in 1919 - it isn't the most scholarly effort, a bit of a patchwork at times, and admittedly it isn't collated in the best possible way, sometimes the information seems scattered, and some of it is incredibly dated, but it's a fascinating trove nonetheless.
If you're interested in this kind of thing, suspend your doubts and indulge in the sheer weirdness and scope of this little book, stuffed full of fascinating facts and lore.Read on archive.org and listened to on LibriVox.

Four stars for what it is. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, historical and anthropological research was quite skewed. This would not stack up against anything modern. However, the tales and rituals given show a very neat and interesting window into how Halloween was celebrated 100 to 200 years ago.If there weren't so many blatant inaccuracies in the mythologies, especially the Celtic parts, and how she uses Scotch instead of Scots, this would've been a five star book for the early 1900s. Ba-al? Really?
An interesting collection of folkloreThe Librivox version is well read. Wide geographical focus. Does tend to go very American (state by state) at one point, but that's inevitable, and for American listeners, even desirable, I imagine.
Mighty festive.
AMAZING when I was little. IDK about now.
An excellent book, if you consider the era it was written in. Take the older stuff with a fun grain of salt. Still a good and fun and interesting read.
I am a sucker for Folklore, and hate to see it die out!
Quite an interesting history of the customs of the holiday. Written in 1919, by a historian. Very thorough and enlightening.
Informative, but a very dry read.
