https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/757424.History_of_the_Makhnovist_Movement_1918_21
At core, a peasant movement, a class that society—and even leftist intelligentsia—has deemed unable of self-determination has shown the world that it encompasses the greatest revolutionary potential; and the Makhnovschina is not the only example of this.This book has many flaws, mainly that it cannot be used as a serious scholarly work.
The author themselves acknowledges that more complete and better documented histories of the movement have to be written; but that he is incapable of doing so.Nonetheless, the story it tells is striking; and ignoring the potential inaccuracies, you get an absolutely beautiful story about the triumph of the human spirit, against almost all odds.
As this movement was vilified by both white and red factions, it is not surprising.The book covers the campaigns against the German invaders, the fight against Petliura and Denikin and the various offensives by the red army against Makhno's army.
At the same time, the book does explain that the movement was much more that just one man.
The book also has a whole chapter dealing with the accusations of antisemitism.
As it deals with only a small part of the Russian revolution and Russian civil war, it wouldn't be a book I would recommend to those unfamiliar with the subject.
"Wherever the working masses do not let themselves be subjugated, wherever they cultivate the love of independence, wherever they concentrate their class will, they will always create their own historical social movement, they will act on their own.
This is the essence of the Makhnovshchina."There have been few attempts in the modern era to create a stateless society, on a large scale and defended with arms.
Engaged in bloody struggle with Austro-German invaders, "Petliurists" (national bourgeois movement), the White generals Denikin and Wrangel, as well as the Red Army headed up by Trotsky, the anarchist-Makhnovists had little opportunity for creative social experiments, and much of this is military history.
The action here is relentless and sometimes shocking, especially when the battles end up in hand to hand fighting, what the participants termed 'hacking'!
let's get straight to stateless communism.
Easier than organising private ownership of land and buildings, easier than setting up a complicated state bureaucracy and most people can immediately see that it makes sense.
Problem for the Ukrainians was that ideas like this weren't just opposed by capitalists and imperialists; the bolsheviks and other state-worshipping parties saw the example of liberated communities as a threat to their own efforts to control all life in post-tsarist Russia and Ukraine.
Very cool.(view spoiler)[ The revolutionary peasant Makhno, with a view to the needs of the revolution, decided to expose and denounce Grigor’ev publicly and in a revolutionary manner.
In order to gain access to him, Makhno established relations with Grigor’ev and his detachments, as if to unify all the guerrilla forces.On Makhno’s initiative, a congress of insurgents from the governments of Ekaterinoslav, Kherson and Tauride was called for July 27, 1919, in the village of Sentovo near Aleksandriya.
Makhno and his comrade Chubenko spoke immediately a er Grigor’ev, and declared that the struggle against the Bolsheviks could be revolutionary only if it were carried out in the name of the social revolution.
The author points out the inconsistencies of communism and how it suppressed the workers and how anarchy could be a solution to giving power to the people.
While I found the book particularly intriguing, I also found it quite disturbing in the way the author describes the murder of various people as almost no incidence whatever, while only disgracing the murder of the people that were trying to make Makhnovism work.I think this book is really worth reading, especially now in a time where communism is trying to gather support in western society.
