https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61928.Freedom_s_Landing
Thus commences a tale of settling a new planet, organizing the humans and various kinds of other aliens, and figuring out who the original owners of the planet were.I like planet settling stories, and I’m definitely planning on reading more.
But then the fact that they are dropped with materials is part of the Catteni plot, and the fact that they aren’t the first settlers is part of the Botany plot, so at least the easiness of it all is explained.All in all I was pleasantly surprised, and definitely want to read the second installment right away.
This was really good...nice hard sci-fi with a lead female who isn't an idiot. All kinds of neat robots that groom a prison planet and a lot of discussion among mixed-species prisoners on who and how should labor be divided and such. Very cool hard science fiction with all the robots and stuff with a female lead.
So decided to spend the afternoon doing a little window shopping (viz.
going online, checking out book covers (viz.
specifically Michael Whelan galleries - yes one of my favourite ways to get recs lol) and series lists and author bibliographies and reading all dem reviews...) and I stumble upon this cover.
There are two things things I remember when I see it: i) The year I read this book (I borrowed it from the library); and, ii) (that after I finished it) feeling sad that I would probably not read the continuation anytime soon (hence the 4-star rating since that probably meant "I really liked it" - haha).
Oh man - another series to re-read/TBR.
I had high hopes for the premise -kidnapped outworlders abandoned on strange new planet and they have to learn to survive. I just don't think it reached its potential. The MC's were appealing but one dimensional and the dangers of the new planet were never dangerous enough. Reviews of book 2 have persuaded me that things get worse in terms of characterisation and plot so I will stop here.
This is a survivalist story, about a group of humans and aliens working together to establish civilization.
Kris, a survival expert, spends most of her time exploring the planet, trying to find the food that one of the alien groups needs, saving others from scavengers and robots, and mapping the area.I found this story to be very okay.
Kris was a flat character, without much depth or nuance.
The plot was okay, though this is a series, and I'm not convinced that I want to read the sequels, despite the fact that there are more mysteries out there.
Literally everything I remember about this book (we're talking about ten years since I read it here) is that the aliens are "like human men, but more so." In that they have larger penises. Because WHY NOT. /o\
Kris, as a heroine, is pretty awesome.
It bugs me to compare anything unfavourably to Twilight, but at least there, Stephenie Meyer managed to create a character who is obviously hot, and obviously attracting a lot of male attention, but who is believably unaware of that until pretty much actually beaten over the head with it.
And Zainal too, awesome as he is (who doesn't love a gentle giant?), is also pretty much just a caricature of perfection.
It just makes their whole story less than engaging.And not really much actually happens in this book, to take attention away from the less-than-stellar characters.
The characters are stereotypes (Sarge, who lacked only a cigar to chew on); strong silent male love interest; attractive, outgoing female lead; wince-worthy black character (the happy cook who talks like he's about whip on a do-rag and call all the white folks "massa baas"); helpless, eye-batting female sidekick; male creeper (helpfully named "Dick").
And if you accept it, it makes more "believable" the concept that the survivors could actually challenge a species with terraformed planets and spaceships the size of a small city.8.
Hmm, sandworms are attracted to vibration and hate water.
The underground species in this book are repelled by vibration and love water.
The ending.(view spoiler)[Watch the skies!
more SiFi than fantasy to be honest. Good detail (as always) and characters are fantastic. The plot didn't really grab me, there was too much other content getting in the way (not exactly 'PG' if you know what I mean. She typically has very colorful series and characters so I have no doubt that the continuing books in this one are great, I just won't be reading them.
interesting idea. Aliens abandon you on a planet where you have to survive. you find a giant mechinized farm... go from there.
When I started reading her work again, I realized how much her books had influenced my tastes- all those wonderful new planets and creatures I had been craving were because of her!Onto this one.
But Kris is neither and I appreciate that.Furthermore, as someone who 99% of the time can't stand romantic subplots, McCaffrey has written one that I was absolutely giddy about.
I'd give my eyetooth to talk like this!Anyways, I love this book and I can't wait to read the next one.
This is a book I'm going to read and reread until the binding breaks.
One of my favorite books of all time. I’ve read it several times over the years. Love love love love love.
Not bad, works ok when read in isolation although it is very much a part of a series. Leaves you on a slight cliffhanger at the end.Reads fast. Reads a bit like a teen/YA book in its flow and simplicity, but some subject matter not appropriate for a teen book.
Maltreated and abused as she was, she drew the line at being a bedmate for her master so she ran away, flying the air ship and hiding out in the jungles of the alien planet, far away from starvation and the metal whips the overlords used on their slaves.
Now stranded on a penal planet, dumped along with thousands of other humans and aliens alike, Kris decides she had better keep an eye out for the Catteni named Zainal, for he was certain to end up killed by any number of human or alien who hated his Catteni guts.
This is the first Anne McCaffrey book I've ever read, and I'm sorry to say that based just on this one, I don't think she is a very good writer.
For example, some of Kris' interior dialogue seems phony - "Whoa Kris girl" and things like that.
Some of the characters' emotional responses seem mixed up as well, such as Patti Sue, who has evidently been severely traumatized but within a few days has apparently gotten over it enough to lay a claim on a man in the "colony" (and then disappears from the story, apparently) or Mitford thinking to himself that he "might fancy" Kris - a woman apparently half his age or even less.
However when I read it again recently I paid more attention to the details of how they go about setting up thier new society and i find a lot of improbable aspects.
For example they have a shortage for wood even for cooking but they manage to start smithing and a kiln.
Where do they get the wood for that let alone makeing steel from iron ore which requires charcoal if you havn't got coal to "cook" carbon into the ore.
Remarking on many of these improbable discrepancies lessened my appreiciation.
Really I did.I had high hopes for this book since I like The Dragonriders of Pern but this book falls far short.
The basic premise is that humans have been enslaved by a race called the Cattani.
The first human we meet is Kris who has escaped and is living in a jungle.
She helps him but he tries to attack her so she knocks him out and tries to leave him in the city but both of them are gassed and when they wake up, they are on a planet.
A bunch of slaves have been dumped there to try to colonize the planet.There is like no action.
It's basically them plodding through the jungle.
Good guys (mostly) win, some aliens are good guys, pioneering on a new planet.
And if you are going to be pioneering on a new planet, the kinds of humans you want to have along are Americans, Aussies, and the Irish.
The only really interesting character is the alien, natch.
But I like McCaffrey's story-telling, and she never hurts my brain.This turns out to be the first of four, not sure if I'll read the others.
On the other hand, her books are sort of like palate cleansing between rich (i.e. books that hurt/challenge my brain) courses...
I liked this first book enough to check out the next three from the library. The series feels hollow. Many major events are not written about just spoken about in conversation and not covered well. An okay story line but not delivered well or filled out. Too many things introduced but never talked about again or developed. For such horrible events like the invasion of earth, forced pregnancy, slavery and others it was really too much Pollyanna style. Could have been a really thought provoking series.
It's taken me awhile to finish book one. The problem is I enjoyed the first part of the story and then I was expecting romance and to connect with the characters more. What I got was an engaging sci fi story focussed more on survival and building a new society on a new planet. So I skipped ahead to book two and that was an easier read. Overall I did enjoy it and it was a 3.5* for me.
On further reflection, I realized that I had given this book an extra star with the expectation that the series would continue to be the same caliber or improve. My love of the Pern series gave me undue optimism. Since the second book was so dreadful that I don't intend to continue the series, I have removed the star and my original comments.
What the blinking crap was that? From the weak world-building (that I was secretly hoping would be resolved somehow) to every convenience character (we just happen to have someone who knows how to do that!) to the incredible stereotypes (ewh), I just couldn't stomach this story.
I've lost track of the number of times I've re-read this book. The spine is starting to fall apart and I'm seriously looking into finding a hardcover edition. I bought the book brand new 8 years ago and have re-read the series at least once a year since.
I love survival rebel forces. This new series from Ms. Caffrey also has cat people. I LOVE cats. This story was fast and engaging read for me. It was fast paced and I could see every place described clearly. I enjoyed ever single word in this book. I can't wait to read follow up books.
Another great Anne McCaffrey book, but it has a part that I felt was unnecessary and trashy. I just skipped a few pages and everything was fine fater that.
Personal memory jogs:Aliens (Catteni or Cats) invade Earth, take large numbers of humans from various cities prisoner and relocate them to other worlds as slaves.
On one such planet (Barevi), Kris Bjornsen escapes her captors and is hiding out when she meets up with a Catteni named Zainal, who is himself on the run.
As a result, large numbers of prisoners, including Kris and Zainal, are swept up into abattoirs before they can escape yet again.The colonists settle into a cave system and begin to make it into their new home with astonishing ease.
Skip the alcohol, and you'll have to face the unavoidable fact that this book has almost no plot, the characters are mostly forgettable, it centers around a romance with zero spark, and the science part tops out at "solar power." Aside from that, it's a well written beach read, with a perky heroine, quippy dialog, and copious fluff.
The humans go through almost no politicking, with is rather too neat for me, but that's why alcohol helps.I'm really not sure who this book is written for as the SF market is not known for its love of fluffy, lightly written, colonization romances.
I didn't really expect too much when I picked this book up (after hearing some less than encouraging remarks reguarding other works of McCaffrey), but I was pleasantly surprised to find that I almost immediately got caught up in this one and ejoyed it the whole way through.
The characters were great (I especially liked Sergent Mitford) and McCaffrey was able to keep the excitment level at a fairly high point throughout the book.
Basically, this is a great book with tons to be praised and little to be criticized.
The premise is pretty interesting - Earth is invaded and people are hauled off to serve as slaves on another planet.
The heroine, Kris, behaved badly as a slave, so she was dumped on a supposedly uninhabited planet to help colonize it, with some other rebellious types.
Why does the alien race just dump a bunch of slaves/inferior races on a planet that they want to colonize?
Don't they stop and think that those people are not going to be particularly friendly to them?
Anyway, the characters are huge cliches and Kris talks and thinks like she's in Saved By the Bell.
I don't think that this snippet is really all that spoilery to be honest, but please let me know if it is!Here's a snippet of what I really liked so far (see if you can guess why):Zainal's hand flagged at them, and they saw him put a finger to his lips for silence.
Kris suppressed a groan as she fell to her belly and inched along like the rest of them.
It was still balanced on its air cushions, still spraying, and the only mechanism it reminded Kris of was a Dalek from old Doctor Who Videos.
For one thing, I could appreciate the characters' use of colloquial language but it got a bit ridiculous when no effort was made to tone down the idioms and idiomatic language structures while the main character was "teaching" English to others from ground zero.
On one hand, when the book ended I just went "Oh, ok." and I don't think I'll bother with the rest of this series.
On the other hand, I could totally appreciate the thoroughness of McCaffrey's approach on the survival aspects of this book.
Plus it's seems fundamentally a bit wrong to low-score a McCaffrey book ;] Let's just call this 2,5 stars.
I mean compassionate and brave) she goes to help the guy from the flitter that crashed.
Then he says something she interprets as a threat of rape, so she hits him on the head and takes him back to the city where they get caught in a riot and she wakes up on another planet with over one hundred other people from different planets who had been at Berevi.
The book is basically a setup for the series, identifying the main characters, and giving a general idea of the cross-series conflict.The audio production is a little strange, with echo-y vocal effects for internal self-talk.
Freedoms Landing by Anne McCaffreyAlmost 5 out of 5 An invasion on earth and the resistance to the aliens are creating havoc, out of a terrible need to show power and domination the aliens capture people who they feel are working to undermine there take over of the planet.What they do with these captives once they have them is drop them on a planet that is unoccupied with a blanket, utensils and a few other items for there survival - what they don't know is the planet has a deadly creature that comes out at night and eats anything and everything lying around.
Okay, I'm rating this high because this book was totally a favorite of mine...
I can't even begin to guess how many times I've read this book.The story: Kris was abducted in Denver when Earth (Terra) was attacked by aliens.
the story really starts when she's recaptured.The thing about this story is that I'm not sure, despite Anne McCaffrey being my most favorite author ever, that it will withstand the test of time.
It reads like very old scifi.
Kris sounds like an old lady, rather than a 20 something college student.
Not sure how to explain but it just feels overall unsatisfying, both plot and characters.I have some specific gripes though:It's not alien enough.
They've been dropped on an alien world but everything is just like home only slightly different.
I don't have a clear idea of what the slightly different things like animals and whatnot look like, even.
What's his role in the story except to be hated?
and y'know, there's not that much antagonism/opposition in this story.
It feels like there should be a good story there, but I doubt there is.
This was an okay book.
(view spoiler)[No "forced pregnancy is okay" for me, thanks!
It is one thing to explore that topic and another thing to say it's perfectly okay and have formerly strong female character just completely capitulate.Even Hermione/Snape Marriage Law fanfiction handles it better.
-_- (hide spoiler)]Anyway, Other reviewers' comments that the survival stuff is pretty unrealistic.
Okay, whatever, sure, that only takes days, Right.
If you just want something a bit cheesy with a strong female character kicking some butt and having some romance, try this out, but not with any high expectations.
This science fiction survival story has an interesting premise where a humanoid mercenary race called Catteni enslave the species that they conquer and drop them on seemingly inhabitable planets to see if the prisoners can survive.
She, along with many other Terrans and a mixture of alien races, has to survive a previously unsettled planet that the Catteni discovered and may wish to utilize in the future.While I thought the concept was intriguing, the execution lacked enough depth to really get me into the story.
It's an interesting concept of people being plucked from different planets, made to work under harsh conditions and when they revolt, dropped off on a planet later named Botany to see if they'll stay alive long enough to colonize it.Kris is one of the main characters I like who is a tough and smart gal who can hold her own, not afraid to speak her mind and has a pretty good sense of humor.
I'm anxious to see how things develop between Kris & Zainal, what other suprises are in store for the people of Botany and who else may appear.If you like Sci-Fi, humor, adventure and alien concepts, this is your book.
Kristen was put into suspended animation and dumped on a planet that had water and little else.
Periodically there are others dumped there, some of which live, and together they learn that the planet is being cultivated for future colonization by the Catani.
However the takeover on Earth isn't going well for them, Kristen and Zainal are learning more and more about this planet, and by the end of the book they know enough to be self-sufficient and over-throw the Catani.
A long novel about the colonization of a planet, in which nothing bad ever happens, the strong Zainal and the little but deternmined Kristen become leaders, along with Sargent Mitford.
Let this be a warning to all of you that are impressed by the relatively rare female protagonist in this book that is independent, proactive and smart, that is not reliant on a man and that can think for herself.
after continuing to read the second book of the series I found myself confused and disappointed by the horrible progression of the MC.
I stopped reading about half way through.
but unfortunately the regression seems to continue until only ashes remain from my initial impression of the female MC.So, save yourself some pain by heeding this warning.
9/30/17 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2yON06T
Esta es la primera parte de una aventura ínter-espacial donde los seres humanos aprenden de que no están solos en el espacio y que no sus armas no son efectivas para luchar contra seres que han decidido que los humanos son la nueva especie a convertir a la esclavitud.
Presentando esa premisa y a nuestros dos protagonistas principales: Kristin y Zainal sabemos que esta historia no será principalmente acerca de un romance entre dos culturas entre mundos distintos, sino de supervivencia, ingenio y abrir la mente a nuevas posibilidades.
Si bien este libro no es lo que me esperaba, es satisfactorio en el departamento de aventura.
Y no hay nada como una buena novela acerca de adaptarse y aprender de nuevas experiencias.
A light, enjoyable romp through a new world.
Another fate lies in store for the resourceful woman Kris Bjorsen, the Catteni overlord Zainal whose she saves, and a motley crew of humans and aliens: colonization.
Kris and her companions are dropped off and expected to tame a new world by their Catteni captors.
The ingenuity is impressive, and there's enough action and mystery to keep "Freedom's Landing" entertaining, even though Kris and Zainal becoming a couple is a little too obvious and happens a little too easily for my taste.
This is one of my favorite series.
I have read it over and over.
Kris is one of my favorite female leads.
She is everything I want to be.
Athletic, smart, survivalist...
Zainal is a great character too.
Shows that people/aliens can change.
They sometimes just need hope, and a different way shown to them.
There are a lot of other great characters too.
Mitford, Leon, the Doyle's...
That might be the only complaint I have.
There are so many people to keep track of.
I definitely recommend this series to anyone who likes Sci-Fi or survivalist stories.
You can read our full review on our blog here: http://theheroinebookstore.com/blogs/...Aliens have scooped up huge portions of Earth's population and made them slaves, Kristin (Kris) Bjornsen being one of them. Nine months later she's living out of her stolen flitter on an alien planet, with no intention of living as a slave again. Then a chance encounter with a Catteni noble, Zainal, gets her captured again. And the Catteni have a unique way of getting rid of troublesome slaves. They have disco
The book is written 95% from Kris' point of view, with a few scenes from the male human leader on the new planet thrown in.HEROINE: Within 4 months of being captured and made a slave Kris takes advantage of an opportunity to steal a flitter (flying car-ish thing) and lives off the land for 5 months on an Alien world.
So there is a good deal of romance and a sex scene, though not until in the later half of the book (note the "Failed Attempt").
Freedom's Landing is fun read with a great female hero, rebellion against oppressors, romance, and survival on an unknown world.
Anne McCaffrey has done it again, only this time there are no dragons.
Kris was taken from Denver, Colorado the day the Catteni attacked.
She awoke on Braveri, where she was then taken to a planet with others to "colonize" said planet.
Kris and her cohort have done more than colonize.
They have made this planet their own, though there is signs the planet is in use by another species, whom they call the Mecho Makers.
Read along and follow as Kris, Zainal, Mitford, and others continue to work to make Botany their own, not just a drop zone, but an actual home planet.

