https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42318.Karlsson_on_the_Roof
Our Russian friend K, like me a hardcore Karlsson fan, came round for dinner tonight.
As it inevitably does these days, the conversation turned to the dismal subject of Lyin' Crooked Donald Trump.
It appeared that we were going to rehearse the same tired old arguments yet again, but K suddenly had a blinding flash of insight: TRUMP IS KARLSSON!!!Of course...
Damn it all, he even LOOKS like Karlsson!
Some brave person just has to get close enough to poke his comfortably rounded paunch in the right place.
She looked almost too confident in last night's debate...
The Great Karlsson ExperimentHaving read the Swedish original and the English and German translations, I had to get the French one too.
Things don't get funnier when you explain them.So, here's the Great Karlsson Experiment.
(World's best experiment in comparative translation studies, guess what that is?) If you have read Karlsson in at least two languages, please message me to say what your ranking is.
If you want to read it for free online, here are links for Swedish, German, English and Russian.
And if you've got kids of an appropriate age, pretty much everyone says it's a great bednight book.Data!
The family isn't surprised when Lillebror makes up an imaginary friend called Karlsson, a little man who lives in a house on the roof and can fly around with a handy propeller that he has attached to his back.
She's cajoled the rest of the family into going out (it's completely clear that she's planning a make-out session), but Lillebror's too small, so all she can do is offer him a reasonable bribe to stay in his room.
And Bettan gets very satisfyingly mad as she chases the pair back to Lillebror's room, shouting that she's going to kill that horrible little kid.
If you've got a little brother or a big sister, you're going to love this book.
Beruntung sekali ya, kita semua bisa bertemu!”Layaknya kebanyakan anak bungsu yang usianya terpaut jauh dengan kakak-kakaknya, Lillebror selalu dianggap ‘kecil dan tak akan pernah jadi besar’ oleh orang tua dan kedua kakaknya.
Semua yang ia ungkapkan selalu ditertawakan (yang saya yakin karena memang betul-betul lucu), atau dianggap khayalan belaka.Cerita Lillebror tentang Karlsson Si Manusia Atap, misalnya.
Satu pelajaran bagi saya, untuk menerima orang lain secara terbuka dan apa adanya mereka.Berbagai usaha Lillebror untuk meyakinkan orang tua, kedua kakak, dan teman-temannya tentang kehadiran Karlsson Si Manusia Atap yang rakus dan jahil itu selalu sia-sia.
In 1942, Crockett Johnson created the cartoon Barnaby, in which we see Mr O'Malley through the eyes of a boy who wishes for a fairy Godmother, but instead is presented with a short, fat, flying, conceited and not altogether competent fairy Godfather. The cartoon was a big hit within the Left intelligentia in the US. Dorothy Parker adored it, Duke Ellington was chuffed to be part of one of the strips. He even wrote a letter to the editor of PM to say so. The Roosevelts were avid followers. It was
In 1942, Crockett Johnson created the cartoon Barnaby, in which we see Mr O'Malley through the eyes of a boy who wishes for a fairy Godmother, but instead is presented with a short, fat, flying, conceited and not altogether competent fairy Godfather.
However much Flook may have been inspired by Mr O'Malley, however, and despite its subversive role as a cartoon for adults read by children, Flook is different enough in looks and character that one needs to have the inspiration pointed out.
Lindgren has taken the intellectual content out of Barnaby and created something that is straightforwardly for children.
Das muss wohl stimmen, wenn er es selber sagt, denn Karlsson ist zufälligerweise auch der beste Aufschneider der Welt.Ganz harmlos sind seine Streiche dagegen nicht und sein Charakter ist auch nicht eben einwandfrei; er schlägt des Öfteren über die Stränge.
Ich denke aber, die eigentliche Zielgruppe, nämlich die Kinder, wird das sehr wohl erkennen und einzuordnen wissen.
Einsamkeit–womöglich–oder einen Minderwertigkeitskomplex?Im Rahmen von Mannys Great Karlsson Experiment habe ich die deutsche Übersetzung von Thyra Dohrenburg gelesen.
Im Großen und Ganzen finde ich die Übersetzung sehr gelungen.
Ich kann daher nur vermuten, dass Deutsch nicht ihre erste Sprache gewesen ist.
My co-worker bought it recently for her 6 years old daughter and we started to reread it out loud in the middle of the office, laughing and cheering like kids. Our boss portrayed Karllson and our office manager managed to be Freken Bok. Just 20 pages of this book and bunch of so called ‘adults’ returned to their childhood. Brilliant, kind and humorous book.
This was the first time I read this book in English and I certainly did think that the translation changed it.
I used to like Karlson more than Pippi, but now, once I have read it I feel like in the English versions I like Pippi more.
This book made me think about stuff though.
It's like having a beautiful book, but never opening it to see the pictures and read the tales.
And this book talks about it - savouring things for special moments - is not for Karlson and that is a great lesson to have from this book.
This has been my favorite growing up, and I will definitely read it to my children. It's a shame that it's virtually unknown to American audience.
Мразех го като дете, успя да ме изнерви и сега. Карлсон със сигурност е най-дразнещият персонаж в историята на световната литература.
My favorite childhood book
What bothered me--appalled me, really--was that this young boy is being encouraged to disobey his parents and sneak out with a strange man who is his neighbor.
Granted, this book was written in a more innocent era, and what is allowed in European children's books seems to be rather different from what is allowed in children's books here in the U.S. I notice that in the new illustrations Karlson is depicted as younger, rather than as a little old man with a mustache, as in the original illustrations.
I wasn't aware that there are 2 other Karlson books.
Heerlijk boek een mannetje met een propeller op zijn rug. Echt een boek om je fantasie te laten gaan. Een avontuur om met hem mee te reizen. Ook een personage waar je meerdere verhalen bij kunt verzinnen. Ik had namelijk dit boek bij mij op een vakantie met mijn kinderen. Omdat het toen meerdere keren regende hebben we nadat dit boek was uitgelezen gewoon zelf een verhaal verzonnen met karlsson in de hoofdrol.
Stupid in English. Reading reviews of those who have read it in other languages, I can tell that the original has more word-play, more heart, more humor... and probably more episodes.Just one example. In Swedish the boy is (iiuc) Lillebor/ Little Brother. Elsewhere he's apparently Smidge, which also means little. In English he's just plain Eric.
Hilarious and adorable.
“Apa kau mau tambah kembang kol lagi?”“Tidak, lebih baik aku mati daripada harus makan kembang kol lagi,” kata Lillebror.“Huss, jangan menjawab seperti itu,” kata Ayah.
pikir Lillebror dalam hati.“Kalau aku bilang ‘lebih baik mati’ bukankah kalian sudah tahu yang aku maksud ‘Tidak, terima kasih’?”“Tetapi orang yang punya sopan santun tidak akan bilang begitu,” kata Ayah.
“Kau pasti ingin jadi orang yang sopan, kan?”“Tidak mau ah, aku pilih jadi seperti Ayah saja,” kata Lillebror.Ibu, Bosse, dan Bettan tertawa mendengarnya.
Макар да е сред класиките в детската литература, Карлсон, който живее на покрива е книга, която, незнайно как, съм пропуснала, въпреки че четях много.
През по-голямата си част книжката е сладка и доста забавна, но Карлсон е едно безкрайно дразнещо, самовлюбено, егоистично, прецакващо приятелите си същество--накратко казано--откровено неприятно човече, което, незнайно как, е станало любим герой на толкова деца.
Дребосъчето, от своя страна, е едно симпатично детенце, което направо ти изпълва душата с по детски невинната си мечта--желанието да има свое кученце.
Сладка книжка, която вероятно щеше да ми се хареса много повече, ако я бях прочела на правилната възраст :)
it might be bad taste to bring up a cartoon when reviewing a book - но кто ещё из бывших Советских сразу слышит голос Ливанова при одном взгляде на обложку?I feel sorry for anyone who hasn't read this (why is it so rare in English!?!?) This book is just .. soo.. AWESOME!! Forget a lame imaginary friend - this kid has a chubby lil troublemaker glutton who has a lil propeller on his back and start-button on his tummy! ♥♥ ...my inner 8-year-old is filling up with glee from only looking at that line
My mother used to read this to me (Russian translation) before bed when I was a kid. The amount of times I laughed hysterically with her. This is such a great children's book, as much as I love Disney and fairy tales, if you ever wanna read something to your kids before bed I seriously recommend this story. Not only will your kids laugh, but your stomach will be sore as well. And everyone will go to bed in a good mood. Astrid will always be one of my favorite childhood authors.
„Как може на света да съществува такъв красив и умен, и прилично дебел, и храбър, и прекрасен във всяко отношение мъж, какъвто си ти, Карлсон!“http://www.knigolandia.info/2011/03/b... Ето и го и него – топпакостникът, достоен за сравнение само с Емил от Льонеберя, а по начин на мислене неоспоримо брат на Пипи Дългото чорапче. Но ако тя е щедра и сияйна, Карлсон е нагло и лакомо хлапе, което някога ме разсмиваше, а сега ме повече издразни с безкрайния си егоизъм.
Funny what you remember from your own childhood...I wanted to read this book to my boys as I remembered reading and hearing it as a child. Somehow I remembered it differently with Karlson being kinder and less self-obsessed but once I started reading it to them it all came back especially his little sayings! The boys really enjoyed the story!!
Really really enjoyed the copy I read in Grade 6, translated into Chinese with absolutely wonderful illustrations. Now, after finally finding a copy in English, and so many years later, I started reading it and didn't share the same feeling.
"Aber du weißt ja wohl, wer zuerst wählen darf, muss den Kleineren nehmen", fuhr er fort und sah Lillebror streng an.Lillebror überlegte einen Augenblick."Ich möchte, dass du zuerst wählst", sagte er erfinderisch."Na ja, wenn du so darauf bestehst", sagte Karlsson und schnappte sich den größeren Bonbon, den er schnell in den Mund stopfte.
Lillebror guckte auf den kleinen Bonbon, der noch in seiner Hand lag."Aber du hast doch gesagt, wer zuerst wählen darf, muss den kleineren nehmen ...""Pass mal auf, du kleine Naschkatze", sagte Karlsson.
Always been one of my least favorite story by Astrid Lindgren and it probably still is. I just can't stand Karlsson most of the time.
Lillebror (literally "little brother") has become Eric, so who knows what other liberties were taken.Aside from that, though, I simply disliked the figure of Karlsson.
Guess I knew too many of them (I was a youngest sibling too, and rather bullied); even in elementary school I found kids like Karlsson tiresome.
Yes, I also know that a certain sector of kids likes repetition in their stories and looks forward to it.
But it's me that rates my reviews, and at least this translation of this book is a very shaky two stars.For kids aged 5-7, if they like this sort of thing.
I despised Karlson when I grew up hearing his story...
an obnoxious, flying, pudgy man who wrecks this kid's room, steam engine, takes his candy.
Plus, he points out that Eric is so happy to see Karlson, no matter what kind of mess awaits.
It's a little like "The Cat in the Hat." That book also made me uncomfortable as a child because the Cat caused so much trouble and anxiety for the kids.
when I was 6 would be that I can accept Karlson's selfish personality.
"Các con phải làm sao bỏ được cái thói quen đánh nhau đi chứ," mẹ nói.
"Thay vào đó hãy cùng đem mọi chuyện ra bàn bạc!
Nhóc Con, con biết không, chẳng có gì mà không giải quyết được, nếu ra biết cách đưa ra bàn bạc tử tế."[...]"Đấy là mẹ tưởng thế thôi," cậu nói và cau có nhìn mẹ.
"Krister nói với con là: 'tao sẽ cho mày nếm đòn,' nó nói thế, và con trả lời: 'cứ thử đi.' Chuyện ấy thì làm sao đem ra bàn bạc có tình có lý được?
This book is a children's classic for Soviet offspring of a certain age, yet oddly completely unknown to most American fans of Lindgren's other works, such as the "Pippi" series. Involves a short, fat, meatball-loving male fairy-esque character that lives on the roof of an apartment building in Stockholm and wreaks havoc with Mme. Freckenbock, the nanny. What's not to love?
Again one of those gems in my grandmother's shelf. I kind of disliked Karlsson when I was a child but at the same time he was a hilarious character and I always looked forward to him appearing through the window. The book made me look up on our roof just in case if we had a chubby little man living in there.
If you really love this book, you should also check out its animated short film adaptation called Malysh i Karlson, directed by Boris Stepantsev.
