https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78127.On_Killing
That is a natural reality that escapes him, but on the whole this is definitely a must read, most especially for those out of touch or expereince with death and killing.You need not have any intrest in the military at all to gain a lot of rare and valuable insights from this book.You only neede an intrest in the human mind, and the male mind itslef to get a great deal indeed out of this academic work.On the whole, and even though he has never been there himself, he is on the mark with this best selling work.
both of them give a multitude of reasons for that seemingly surprising fact (Noseworthy spends several chapters on that topic), while Grossman makes it into factual proof for his thesis almost in a blink of an eye.Another thing that made me raise an eyebrow are his multiple references to snipers and fighter aces.
For that fact alone it needs to be recommended for anyone with the interest in the topic.Additional note: prior to reading 'On Killing', I've read one of the books about American Civil War that Grossman refers to - "Crucible of courage" by Nosworthy.
He presents his opinions on killing and backs them up with quotes from soldiers and authors of similar books.
I was beginning to be swayed with his final arguments on how violent media trains our children to become anesthetized to killing.The downside, however, is that too few other authors are mentioned in the text (we see the same names over and over), and some of the book is based upon data that has since been questioned (S.L.A. Marshall).
What my seesaw thoughts represent is that the book has been well-researched and presents ideas that may or may not resonate with your current perceptions.
Ok I loved and hated this book.
I guess you could say I hated it because the truth hurts..
but I loved it because It REALLY opened my eyes to how(my hubby) feels everyday.
It really helped me understand him and the thoughts that he has more clearly.
I was let down though, the reason...
So in some ways fantastic others a let down.
I do recommend others read it though it will let you into the mind of all of the men and women back from combat.
AND I TRULY BELIEVE ALL OF US SHOULD UNDERSTAND THEM BETTER!
The book is full of things that Grossman made up to support his beliefs and which Grossman refers to as if they are historical fact.
Yet, Grossman claims that Centurions, like modern officers, led but didn't kill, giving the Romans a tactical advantage.
At one point in the book Grossman has a multi-page rant about how the US really won the Vietnam war because the Berlin wall fell.
For instance Grossman makes the absurd claim that soldiers are repulsed by bayoneting other soldiers because it similar to the act of sex.
By turns fascinating and overly moralising; amazing insights into how normal people can be made to commit atrocites, the average soldier's (reassuring) reluctance to kill (at least, up close and personally) are mixed with poor research and referencing, repetition and generally uninspiring writing.Throughout the book we are repeatedly told of the massive increase in violent crime throughout America - but this isn't referenced.
but there's no evidence for this presented in the book, despite the author repeatedly telling us that there is.A fascinating book - but would be much more satisfying with better research or, at least, a clearer division between fact and the author's personal opinion.
While it starts out in an academic fashion and explains the basis for its theories, it later derails into chapter-long rants and moans about how American society is to blame for its treatment of returning veterans of the Vietnam war.
The nonsensical notion that violent media makes violent media-consumers has been buried and forgotten in academic circles ever since the 90s.
Same goes with the entire “sheepdog” concept.All and all I would recommend reading the first half of the book about the psychological mechanics and factors in killing, skip the rants about Vietnam vets and ravings about media-violence.
People don't like to kill each other.
We are much more likely to slash and cut each other than we are to actually stab someone, to run someone through with a spear.
Apparently (and I swear I'm not a violent person) the most effective way to kill someone quietly is to stab them in the kidney from behind, because it's so paralyzingly painful, a person cannot make any noise.
Even though this is noisier, less effective, and in all liklihood a good way to cut one's own hand, this is somehow more natural than stabbing someone in the back.
The result is that you’re sometimes forced to take the author at his or her word about what a particular study proves, because they aren’t even showing you the parts of the study that serve to back up their point (never mind the parts that might refute it).Still, it is a good, thought-provoking book, and is certainly worthwhile reading for anyone who is interested in the effects of learning to kill (and killing) on the human mind.
I learned so much on the act of killing and how extraordinarily hard it is for people to kill one another.The problems I had with this book:-Grossman only goes into detail about gruesome atrocities that are committed by communists or non white people.
He never gives examples of US soldiers committing atrocities.-Grossman feels that Vietnam veterans have PTSD worse than other wars because we, as a nation, didn't approve of the war.
-Grossman says the Vietnam War was just and ultimately we were right in entering it.
I thought the point of this book was the study of killing in war.
TL;DR version: Offers insight, but is not science and becomes a preachy old geezer at the end.Referenced many times by military historians I enjoy reading, On Killing starts on an academic footing and caught my attention with statistics that tell a story about the historical willingness to kill in combat.
And I still recommend it for offering at least some insight into a soldier's mind leading up to and following the order to kill.
Grossman ends the book with doom-and-gloom "we're going to hell in a handbasket" preachery of the first order.
And crime statistics since the book was written have only proven his message wrong.
Despite the very disturbing subject matter, this book was a smorgasbord of information on the aversion of humanity to take human life, the history of combat including some anthropology, a sociological lesson about violence, a huge dose of psychology into psychiatric and physical trauma caused by taking human life, and description of ways in which warlords, gangs, and governments have attempted and succeeded to overcome this inborn aversion to killing with remarkable results, but often catastrophic psychiatric results on the soldiers returning from conflicts.
A monumental study on violence and why it has been perpetrated in many, many forms.
Grossman, a former Army Ranger (who, ironically, has never actually killed anyone) collects myriad stories from those who have killed, and comments on society's collective aversion to the action.
In wwii, only 15% of men were willing to fire their weapons, in korea it rose to 50%, in vietnam, the american military was able to persuade 90% of combat troops to fire on the enemy.
Grossman comments on how the military was able to accomplish this, and discusses impacts of the operant condition, and other methods used.
i'm as interested in his reaction to the book as i am in the content.
I have seen this book recommended more than once as a resource for writers to understand the true costs of war upon the human psyche.
I well understand why.
It is a book that is intense, frank, and fascinating as it breaks down the psychology and physiology of what warriors endure during and after war.
Where it strayed for me was at the end, when he looked to the future, and among other points, presented an argument on video games as murder-training simulators.
The book is incredibly strong (and disturbing) when it focuses on the history and personal stories, and I will be keeping it on my shelf for future reference.
Army Ranger Dave Grossman (not a combat veteran) reviews the role of killing in human history and relates it to a military statistic called the firing rate, drawn from data compiled by Richard Holmes and others.
There's almost no work of military history that doesn't glorify war, and yet the social costs usually (and clearly) far outweigh the gains, as Grossman argues powerfully in this book.
And yet Grossman argues that nine out of ten combat veterans are not perverse.
Perhaps Grossman thought he was practicing some sort of classical conditioning by mentioning the 15% participation rate in battle (which rises to 90% or so in Vietnam due to improved training techniques) somewhere around 50 different times, but this clearly shows the difference between psychology and rhetoric, because now I question how strong this argument is if this is the only real reed it is leaning on.
In a book about the psychology of battlefield killing, Grossman somehow found time to say on the third to last page that lebensraum, free-market economics, and the 1st and 2nd Amendments are "noble-sounding concepts" used to mask responsibility for killing innocent people.
On Killing is insightful and impactful, informative and emotional, gripping and painful.
I’m not sure if I’m doing justice by saying that it has managed to bring out the human element (at least a glimpse) to all the war documentaries and stories I have read as a history buff.
What works: It’s clear outline of the (limited) scope of the book – killing on the battlefield.
The author’s background in psychology, teaching AND military surely reflects on the style of putting across his arguments.
Writing style is colloquial and extremely easy to read.
Not the country, or an ideal – but the soldier in their troop.If they kill, it’s often in defense of their comrades.Personal involvement brings PTSD, not just actionGrossman looks at data on the bombing victims in WWII in England and also in the firebombed German cities.
Still – it’s a way of thinking about it.And if I’m a sheep – which I may be, because I don’t engage in any sort of aggression myself, then I’m thankful for those sheepdogs who keep the wild dogs at bay.In any case – fantastic book.
You could look up some Civil War photos, though generally the dead are at a distance, some exist showing 2, 3 or 4 holes.In chapter 2 the author states his hypothesis that soldiers don’t willing shoot to kill the enemy.
No, let's not have a few facts get in the way of a beautiful theory.Chapter 6 in Section 4 mentions variables and equations but math is hard so there's no use actually putting any numbers or formulas down.Section 7 has a neat killing response diagram which shows that everyone gets PTSD.
An excellent, but flawed, book.
What the author has to say about conditioning people to kill (and overcoming what for most people is a very strong natural resistance) is very interesting and thought-provoking.
There are some issues, though, and some of them are big.
First, his comments about Greek and Roman fighting are not wholly accurate (Greek wars, particularly Alexander's campaigns, were not just low-casualty "shoving matches" as the author suggested).
Second, the book tends to be quite repetitive, with the same ideas (and in many cases, the same quotes/passages) presented multiple times.
He bases his book on studies and on the research of other scientists regarding combat, mental stress in combat, and psychiatric casualties of combat; on observations made by combat professionals, and on anecdotes from those who have undergone combat.I don't buy his conclusions lock, stock, and bubblebath: that there are more men who did not shoot to kill in combat, particularly in wars before Vietnam, than there are men who did.
After killing, the killer suffers permanent, life-long psychological damage - Post Psychological Stress disorder.The author discusses the means to address this problem (recovery time, ongoing connections squad-mates, acceptance & praise by the society that demanded the killing, etc.) and how all those were overlooked or outright violated for returning Vietnam vets.In the end, this could have been a GREAT book if it was simply against killing altogether; because of the unbearable costs to the individual and society.
As a result, there's great hypocrisy in lamenting how our society is becoming desensitized to killing and violence (video games, movies, etc.), while at the same time claiming we need to create desensitized killers to accomplish military & national objectives.We can't have it both ways.
This is the first book I've ever logged in Goodreads where I was genuinely upset by the number of 4 & 5 star ratings.
I've probably rated this 1 star instead of 2 as a reaction to those people.
I will state that there is some interesting material presented in this book, but that material would be more appropriately presented in novella length instead of the 300+ pages of poor scholarship and occasional weird culture warrior bullshit that I slogged through here.You will get an interesting breakdown on how authority, mentality, conditioning, method, & distance all affect human beings in the act of killing, contemplating killing, and subsequent rationalizations.
Dave Grossman’s book, On Killing, is not a light read.
Nor is it a particularly enjoyable one.
I knew all that going in.
So why did I read it?
Because although I knew it would not be an enjoyable read, I felt that it was a necessary one.
I write thrillers.
I write about elite warriors, despite the fact that I have never fired a shot in anger, despite the fact that I have never taken a human life.
I don’t see this as a deterrent, for I know with certainty that I would not be able to write about i
Dave Grossman’s book, On Killing, is not a light read.
Because although I knew it would not be an enjoyable read, I felt that it was a necessary one.
Dave Grossman’s is the single best book I have read on the topic.
If you have a family member or a friend on active duty, you owe it to them to read this book.
If you know someone who came back from a war forever changed, you owe it to them to read this book.
And if you don’t fit into either category, then read this book.
He begins with a detailed analysis of the inhibition against killing humans and its effects on battlefields.
This leads to a discussion of the research involved and how this research and its subject (I mean the behavior of killing) created the conditioning training used in Vietnam and, in evolved forms, is currently used in the military.Useful to understand the actual nature of what these soldiers are trained to do, what they do, how they perceive what they do and the effects of what they do.
And this means*killing people*.His compassion for the soldiers is evident and absolutely necessary within this conversation.
The main thesis of this book is fascinating: historically, the vast majority of soldiers in battle chose not to kill, and the psychological cost of killing is a primary but under-acknowledged factor in PTSD among soldiers.
The author presents what I found to be quite convincing evidence of the resistance to killing among soldiers, drawing on studies of historical data to show how the overwhelming majority of infantrymen in the Napoleonic era, American Civil War, and World Wars did not fire their weapons even in the midst of battle.
The experience of killing is examined through a series of case studies illustrating the psychological processes of elation, regret, rationalization, etc.
I have never read anything that has broken down the psychology of justified murder/killing.
From the conditioning of soldiers to the linguistic associations that allow people to view others as "less than" and thus acceptable casualties.I would recommend it solely for the chapters on weaponry and how innovation and technology have progressed to move our proximity away from the kill, which in turn increases psychological acceptance of the act.
(Ie. from swords to spears to guns to missiles and now drones)Highly recommended for some thought provoking non-fiction.
I wonder what it says about me that even my non-fiction reads are filled with death.
A book unique in its premise, and it's ability to confront hard truths.It helped me wrap my mind around events that I have always struggled with.And for me with this furthered understanding comes a kind of healing.
Grossman spends MUCH of the book explaining why it's so incredibly difficult for a soldier to kill; he spends the other "much" exploring the necessary processes society and the military must provide for veterans who HAVE had to kill while in service.
On the other hand, I fear that the REASON they have them read Grossman's book is because he also explains the processes necessary to overcome the hesitation to kill.
And so, after it lived on my shelf for some time, I undertook what turned out to be the hefty task of reading it.Don’t get me wrong: I tried to give On Killing a chance, as much as it may be hard to believe after an introduction like that.
Oversimplification here comes across as callousness toward victims of such atrocities in the name of his militaristic and nationalistic exercise – as does simply defining atrocity as “the killing of a noncombatant.”By the end, I struggled to understand why On Killing seems to be held on such a lofty pedestal by so many, but then I became reminded of Lee Strobel here, that Grossman’s probably preaching to an audience that really, really, really wants to believe what he’s selling.
