https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574037.Christmas_Bride
Some heartwrenching scenes when poor Margaret (the heroine) is starving and cold.
The Christmas Bride begins in the American "Far West" (no idea which state), but is set primarily in Philadelphia and Vermont (I think it was Philly -- the city wasn't named).I chuckled at the various expressions, like "what a peach!" and "a crackerjack cook!" and "Say!" The new technology is not shortened yet: "automobile" (not car) "telephone" (not phone) "manifold machine" (what is that?)Plot:  Gregory Sterling finds oil on his land out West, so he sells it for millions and goes back home to Philly.
Grace Livingston Hill in her new book, “The Christmas Bride” Book Nine in the Love Endures series published by Barbour Publishing, Inc. takes us into the life of Greg Sterling.From the back cover: “His heart sank more and more over the ghastly thought that perhaps he should never find her again…”Greg Sterling spent the last ten years out West trying to eke out a living on rough, unforgiving land…until he discovered oil and his fortune was made.
I think “The Christmas Bride” is an exciting story and a wonderful romance that will keep you reading as to what happens next.
I have loved Grace Livingstone Hill's books for years, and I'm delighted that they are being reissued now! The Christmas Bride is a gentle story of love, faith and hope and is just a delight to revisit. I highly recommend this charming books!
Here a man with newfound wealth finds a girl who is starving to death before his eyes.
His efforts to save Margaret are sometimes a little heavy-handed, but the sincerity is there, as it is in his own stumbling newfound walk with Christ.
Again, we see the blissful idyll of the family farm, and living simply, held in contrast to the things of the world.
I like these aspects to Grace's book as she always inspires me to not only try to live a better life, but to keep pressing on when things are difficult.
In a lot of Hill's books the "good people" are very good, giving, caring, they don't smoke, wear make-up, dance, or drink, and they are attractive and intelligent.
The "bad people" are very bad, they drink, smoke, drink, gamble, go out all night, they have multiple divoces, are immoddest, and while they can be portrayed as attractive and intelligent they usually end up being considered fake or false.
But I love these books for the sweetness of them, and for the fact that my Mom and Grandmother gave them to me.
Even though it's predictable, I still found myself nervous for the main characters, and smiling at the end.
Greg brought Margaret into the hospital and paid her entire bill, setting her room up as a memorial to give poor people a nice room for free while in the hospital.
But Greg soon set her straight!This well written story is full of realistic characters that you will grow to love, and Grace Livingston Hill gives readers a heartwarming story to read during the Christmas Holidays.
Pick up your copy now, so you will have it when the holiday season gets here!I received this book from the publisher Barbour Books to read and review.
But at what price?Will love be rekindled or will there be another?This read is a classic romantic gentle novel that will take the reader back to another time period.
I did enjoy the character of Gregory charming, easy to connect with and realistic!
Scenery was exquisite and very descriptive felt as if I were there.I found reading that most parts within the book made it impossible to put down but a few though I struggled through.
This is a faith challenging and inspiring read that is good for a relaxing winter day.Thanks to Barbour Publishing for the complimentary copy from the Christmas Giveaway!
I have loved reading Grace Livingston Hill in the past. She always writes in a bygone era - for the post modern reader. Of course it is her own era and therefore the attitude, language and Christian practice and ideals of the time are authentic. I admit that having recently been ruthlessly schooled on post modern writing styles, I was a bit distracted by her old fashioned writing style of telling, rather than showing. In the past this never bothered me, but I noticed it a lot this time. Still a lovely little story.
This is my first experience with classic Christian writer Grace Livingston Hill. I have to say, even though I'm not a huge fan of older literature other than the Bible, I really enjoyed it. It had a timeless appeal and quite a bit of old-school charm. If you're a fan of Christian fiction, you should definitely check Grace Livingston Hill's books out. Though she may have left this world decades ago, she lives on through her writings...and for good reason, too.
Not my favorite GLH book, but I did enjoy the story. This particular GLH story has surprisingly little character development--both protagonists are close to perfect from the very beginning, and the one conversion that occurs requires very little persuasion to reach that point. Overall, an enjoyable read but not very memorable.
Written in 1934 and reprinted in 1994 with the most ridiculous cover possible. There was sparing use of slang, just the occasional, "Say, she's a crackerjack cook!" which actually tickled me quite a bit. Although I don't know anywhere I can check my bags for ten cents and buy a peanut butter sandwich for five cents anymore I thought this book felt pretty "new." Not too sappy but very cute.
The Christmas BrideExcellent book about a man who suddenly becomes rich and can not understand how the world has changed in 10 years. After seeing a young lady collapse in the park, he provided for her care. I highly recommend this book!
I liked this one, especially having read it around Christmas. It was wonderful to read about the relationship between two people who are Christians. It contains a bit of mystery along with adventure and romance. All in all, a good read.
Cute, clean read. This one was a little cheesy for me and very preachy, but still a cute read. The style of writing made more sense to me once I noticed the author actually lived (1865-1947). Glad I read it, but probably wouldn't read again.
ohmygosh! this is the first Grace Livingston Hill book I read when I was a kid! I still love this one the most probably.....or it's tied with The Enchanted Barn.*after reading* I always love it every time I read this book.
Not one of her best, but I liked the strong current of Biblical themes. I thought they got a bit extreme at times, but I liked to see how the heroine's grandparents trusted in God through their hard times, and how the newly married couple had strong values and convictions.
I like these clean Christian romances by Grace Livingston Hill; however, I will say that her good characters are almost too perfect and her bad ones horribly evil, which can make them amusing although that's not the intent. They are well written though.
It's an older book and I had to adjust to the writing style. It's written in the omniscient point of view, which I also had to adapt to since I don't read many of those. But the story is sweet and the main characters charming.
Pretty goodThis isn't my favorite book by the author, but is a pleasant read. As always, the author includes a strong gospel message.
Another Christian love story culminating in a Christmas wedding. Somehow she pulls it off without being too, too sappy. BUT, I don't think I could read GLH any other time of the year.
A very pure and sweet Christian love story. I was left with a happy feeling.
excellent
This would be a great movie.
Grace Livingston Hill is my guilty pleasure...
very predictable, but cute.
I love Grace Livingston Hill and this book was true to the others. It is a wonderful book. Very clearly talks about the Lord and being a Christian.
I enjoy her simplistic writing style, her ability to speak on lifestyle purity in away that is completely foreign today and may have even been foreign in her own time, her ability to bring redemption in a dark world, and for her simplistic preaching within the story lines."The Christmas Bride" is a wonderful story of being in a place for "such a time as this".
After Greg is able to find her, he helps her in ways she never imagined.
I would say more but you really need to read this story!If there had to be a con it would simply be that the simplistic yet powerful purity that she writes about is so foreign for us today.
Grace Livingston Hill is a master at creating lovable and adorable male MC's. That's generally why this was a good book. It was a sweet, clean, and great romance. There wasn't enough communication, which bugs me, but I guess you've got to create conflict somehow.An A+ romance and A+ faith. It wasn't a spectacular book in any one way; it was just a wholesome enjoyable book. Perfect for a G.L. Hill lover.
My former mother-in-law introduced me to Grace Livingston Hill. The Christmas Bride is one of the three Christmas novels that she wrote. This one is my second favorite of the three and I read them every year.
I really liked the set-up and the first half of this book. But then when he just stumbles upon her, it just killed the narrative tension. After that it felt like Hill just kind of phoned it in. And I seriously could have done w/o the unbiblical Scolfield pre-millenial dispensationalist nonsense.
