https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110763.The_Gnostic_Gospels
Gnostic (gnosis, Gk: knowledge) Christians did not believe that human intermediaries (priests, etc.) were necessary for an individual to find God. For the gnostics, enlightenment was an entirely inward and self-determined process.
Gnostic Christians believed that Jesus was not divine but an ordinary man with an extraordinary message.
They believed that "secret wisdom" was handed down to the Apostles by Jesus, esoteric knowledge which was not vouchsafed to ordinary believers but only to mature ones.
The gnostics believed that through their inner way of knowing God that they were then able to exceed the knowledge of the Apostles.
It also examines the Gnostic believe that the God of the Old Testament and the God of the New Testament weren't the same God, something that formed the basis of Karl Edward Wagner's Kane series.Chapter 3: Chapter 3 examines the lack of female symbolism in Christianity and talks about Gnostic texts that assign female characteristics to the Holy Spirit and other aspects of Christianity, like the creation in Genesis and God's traditional depiction.Chapter 4: Chapter 4 talks about whether or not there were some shenanigans at the crucifixion involving the old switcheroo or Jesus faking his death or even Jesus not being human.
It describes, catalogues, quotes, and interprets portions of the secret gnostic gospels which were ordered destroyed in the 4th century after Christ.
Some crafty monk shoved bits and pieces of papyrus into a clay jar and buried it, like a time capsule, for 20th century archeologists to discover and historians to argue about for another 16 centuries.What do the gnostic gospels disclose?
Reread.This is one of the most fascinating books on the history of early Christianity.
Although it does contain just quotes and selections from the texts themselves, Pagels does a remarkable job analyzing and giving them a greater historical context.The Gnostic texts also gave a radical re-evaluation of the history of early Christianity, the nature of God, the figure Jesus, the resurrection, the role of women and whether or not a 'Church' as it exists in the Catholic tradition, was always extant.
Some aspects of the Gospels also resemble Eastern traditions of self-knowledge.On a side note, it also gives an insight into the rewriting of history.
Consequently, I was excited to learn that one of Janny's religion professors was Elaine Pagels, the author whose analysis of the Johannine Gospel in Gnostic Exegesis had impressed me years before.
Basically, she had afforded me the opportunity to read all of the patristic literature of the first several centuries of the Christian era, a body of material which would have been too boring to read seriously if I hadn't done it with the close attention to the texts which the project required.At the time of graduation from seminary, her The Gnostic Gospels appeared--too late to read it then and, besides, I was deeply immersed in a thesis on Kant and Jung.
Obviously the religious perspectives and methods of Gnosticism did not lend for a mass religion and were no match for the highly effective organization of the new Catholic Church (modeled after the Roman political and military system) and based on a unified canon requiring the initiate only the essentials of faith and rituals – and it has survived twenty centuries.However, others, such as William Blake (in his Everlasting Gospel) and Dostoevsky (most notably through Ivan in Brothers Karamazov) have identified with the vision of the Christ, rejected by the church, who desired man freely choosing the truth of his own conscience over religious certainty.Another interesting side issue is that apparently women participated in early Christian churches even in leadership positions.
The truth was not in the stories, but in the goal of the stories, which was a direct experience of the divine, or higher spiritual states.This leads us into the most important major difference between the Gnostics and the Orthodoxy; the Gnostics believed the journey to God was a journey within.
The connection to divinity was present in the individual, not an exterior church.It is easy to see why Gnosticism was not popular with the emerging Holy Roman Empire during the 4th century.
If the church was to retain power, if Rome was to remain an empire in any way, it had to be necessary as a bridge to the divine.
Pagel's biggest success is in the way she ties the controversy between gnostic and orthodox ideas into contemporary social and political issues and uses them to explain why orthodox ideas ultimately won out.
It paints a picture where orthodox Christianity isn't the camp that won because it's ideas were any 'truer,' but because it's ideas were far more widely accessible to the social and political structures that predominated in the 1st through 4th centuries.My only criticism would be that Pagels occasionally over-emphasizes the dichotomy between orthodoxy and gnosticism and skims over any potential overlap.
Having been subjected to an ultra-conservative parochial school education whose science and history never made sense to me and whose religious timeline for history never quite fit into that of the learned world, I struggled with those whose only belief is the common Biblical text.
After reading The Gnostic Gospels I was opened to a larger interpretation of the texts, a different viewpoint, which then encouraged me to do my own research into these texts and the world's timeline.
Pagels presents the Gnostics as representing various competing doctrines in the charged religious landscape of the first few centuries of the first millennium, competing against groups that would eventually ascend as canonical and orthodox representatives of the catholic church of Christ.
Pagels argues that many of the core doctrines of the Nicene Creed evolved in part as a specific attempt to exclude Gnostic scripture from the canon, including the emphasis placed on the primacy of the church of the Apostolic succession as the vehicle of redemption over and above personal experience.
کتاب یک سری عقاید فرقه های گنوسی یا عرفانی مسیحی قرن های اول و دوم میلادی را بر اساس متون یافت شده تپه های ناگ حمادی بررسی میکند. یکی از نکات جالب برای من شباهت زیاد عقاید با عرفان ایرانی بود از جنبه های مختلف از جمله تغییر چهره دین و محدود کردن و کوتاه کردن دست نهاد دین و مرجعیت دینی ارتدوکس.در مورد سرچشمه عقاید عرفانی اختلاف نظر وجود داره گروهی معتقد هستند تحت تاثیر اندیشه های شرق آسیا این افکار شکل گرفته و گروهی ریشه اون رو در اندیشه های زرتشتی و از خاستگاه ایران میدونند.
These are further compounded by the simple lack of depth or profundity in her theoretical analysis.As example of the first bias, the reader can sense the palpable and obvious attempt to juxtapose the gnostic sects versus the proto-orthodox Church as an opposition between democratic versus hierarchical organization.
Pagels mentions the anti-Jewish sentiments only in passing.On the whole, the book is not very well executed, and is better understood as a well-intentioned but ham-fisted political manifesto than a serious historical, theological, or philosopic study.
Her books are short and a good read.The title refers to a sect of Christianity based on the idea that "Gnosis" (Greek for 'knowing') is the correct path to God. In other words, where the mainstream church decided that one must adhere to the teaching of the Bible as interpreted by the hierarchy of the church, the gnostics believed that direct knowledge could bypass all of these political structures.
Pagels explains in various ways how the church saw these ideas as a threat to their political power, which is why they were stamped out and all of their books burned...

I will only note that there is another group of experts who believe that the Gospel of Saint Thomas was composed in the 3rd century like the majority of other documents in the Nag Hammadi library.
What Pagels does do is to say that the Gnostics rejected the doctrine of the resurrection of the body taught by orthodox Christianity but believed like Platonists in the immortality of the soul.
In spirit, it is dramatically different from the Christianity of the Roman Catholic, Orthodox, Reformed, Lutheran and Evangelical churches.In many places, Pagels provides great insight into Gnosticism for the reader who is familiar with the documents of the Nag Hammadi.
Well worth it.For the uninitiated, the canonical Christian New Testament represents but a handful of documents chosen from numerous texts about the life and times of Jesus written in the 200 years following his death.
xxxiv), with the sub-point that texts included in the canonical Bible were often chosen for political and not ideological reasons.Big claims!
My conclusion from Pagels' descriptions of church political machinations is that ideas are only as powerful as the people who believe them.
The gnostics spawned a few dusty scrolls in an Egyptian urn, and their ideas were extinguished until others could think them up again.It's also a bit absurd reading any of these texts from an atheistic perspective.
I was already familiar with the Gnostic Gospels, mainly through the lectures and writings of Bart Erhmann, before I picked up this earlier book.
However Elaine Pagels' study on these writings of Early Christianity is essential in spreading light on this topic.
One of the things this book does so well is setting the gnostic idea in its time and how it was at odds with "Orthodox" Christianity.
Pagels rarely writes opinion but ties her thoughts directly to the actual writings on the time.
This is possibly the first and best book on the subject of the Gnostic Gospels.
If you were instigated to read up on gnostic gospels by fantastic polemic works like that of Ehrman, you are going to find this book somewhat underwhelming.
While Ehrman's works have a dramatic quality that captures your imagination (and gets him invited to numerous talks and debates with orthodox scholars), Elaine Pagels's The Gnostic Gospels has a sobriety that convinces you of a more scholarly outlook.
The focus of the book is more on the relationship between the gnostic and the orthodox branches of Christianity in the early centuries of the Common Era rather than the instructions and stories of the gnostic gospels.
Fascinating book for a Christian who says the Nicene Creed weekly not really believing large parts of it but wishing he could.
The book explores different roads that Christianity might have taken but did not, such as making an equal place for the feminine or tolerating rationalist heresies about the Resurrection.
The hard part of, the deep truth of faith is to believe in what we have not and cannot see, to believe in what reason tells us is absurd.
Fascinating study showing how much variety there was in early Christian practice.
Pagels herself now insists (in more recent works) these early texts should not have been called the "Gnostic Gospels".
To classify that way tends to imply a sharp split between Christian and Gnostic, and subsequent work shows that there was no such sharp split at that early time.
(Nor was there a sharp split between some Jewish groups and Christians at that early point, rather people who considered themselves to be both at once, seeing no conflict, as Daniel Boyarin argued persuasively in The Jewish Gospels.)A real eye-opener.
A very clear and fascinating introduction to the subject! I would recommend it.
Valentino attraverso questa tattica probabilmente voleva permettere ai propri seguaci di sfidare la chiesa e il suo vescovo in quanto legati al demiurgo e non al vero Padre.Il capitolo legato alla resurrezione l'ho trovato molto interessante anche per il fatto che l'interpretazione offerta dagli gnostici sembra di gran lunga piu' plausibile.Nel libro sono riportate varie opinioni di studiosi che non credono che lo gnosticismo sia una forma di eresia cristiana bensi una religione autonomacon antiche radici orientali ( tra le ipotesi avanzate: fonti babilonesi, radici indiani, buddisti o legati allo zoroastrismo persiano ) , teorie plausibili in quanto molte teorie e il misticismo profondamente penetrato nel credo gnostico hanno molto in comune con la filosofia orientale.Un libro consigliato , consigliatissimo anche per chi pensa di non essere porta a non-fiction storici.
Gnostics have no need of codes and canons: "like artists, they express their own insight—their own gnosis—by creating new myths, poems, rituals, 'dialogues' with Christ, revelations, and accounts of their visions."The body of thought that would win out over gnosticism stressed, by contrast, an ordered hierarchy:As God reigns in Heaven as master, lord, commander, judge, and king, so on earth he delegates his rule to members of the church hierarchy, who serve as generals who command an army of subordinates; kings who rules over "the people"; judges who preside in God's place.As Christianity expanded, its institutions could not sustain the kind of spiritual anarchy gnosticism portended if it was to organize a mass constituency:Seeking to unify the diverse churches scattered throughout the world into a single network, the bishops eliminated qualitative criteria for church membership.
More than anything, it's the story of how a version of Christianity that would have emphasized universal divinity in all humans and individual spiritual quests as the essence of religious life -- as well as one that made space for a Divine Feminine, a concept notably absent from the Abrahamic religions -- lost out to (and was ruthlessly suppressed by) the version we know, with its emphasis on a perfect God external from mankind, on deity worship, and on adherence to dogma.
Pagels knows, and acknowledges, that the version of Christianity that emphasized order, hierarchy, and submission succeeded precisely because of that emphasis, running roughshod over what sound like squabbling packs of proto-hippies trying to "find themselves" (self-actualization is nice, but order, hierarchy, and obedience is what builds an institution that lasts for millennia).
These texts are Coptic translations from Greek texts that were written by gnostic Christians around the same time as the New Testament.
So much so that they eventually were branded as heretics and shunned from Christianity altogether, which is most likely why these texts were buried around the same time the New Testament was being compiled.I believe that the key difference can be found in the names of the two groups.
She sees these differences as instrumental in the downfall of the Gnostics and the rise of the Catholics, particularly the structure of the church.I found the Gnostic Gospels absolutely fascinating.
The book is based upon Elaine Pagels' interpretations of fragments of early texts, written in Coptic during the first two hundred years following the crucifixion.
The author summarizes not just the writings of these early spiritual leaders, but also examines them within the social and political issues of the times.The Gnostic texts, discovered in 1948 in a remote Egyptian cave, describe a spiritual tradition of meditation, inner visions, and self-discovery, rather than a quest for salvation.
The book is a fascinating look into the social and political aspects of the first two hundred years of the Christian church.
This is a very thorough historical examination of the conflict between the orthodox and gnostic perspectives of Christianity in its first centuries, based on various scriptures (canonical and apocryphal) as well as the writings of religious scholars and historians from that time.
This is definitely a book worth reading, regardless of your religious beliefs, because Christianity has such a huge influence on our world today, and this book well illuminates an alternate perspective that forces us to question many things we've always assumed could only be understood in one way.
I found the book fascinating. The description of the discovery and coming to light of the Nag Hammadi library, a collection of Gnostic writings including gospels, apocalypses, and other early Christian/Gnostic books called apocryphal that did not make it into the New Testament because of the heretical views expressed. The narrative shows the extreme division among early Christian groups and the struggle between ecclesiastical authority (orthodoxy) and individual conscience (the various heterodox groups called Gnostics). Some pieces of Gnostic philosophy were passed to me in my Mormon Sunday School classes.
A well written work whose basic thesis is that the modern New Testament exists in its current form for a political reason: because the four gospels trace Divine Authority to the Church and the pope. Other so called Gnostic Gospels were discarded or rejected because they allowed the faithful to find their own salvation within themselves. In short, gnosticism was a threat to Church authority in the same way that Protestantism was: neither require a pope or a church or a priest. Thus, Gnoticism was rejected and Luther was excommunicated.
Heady stuff, but still accessible for the layman.
