https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76968.The_Secret_of_Pirates_Hill
Yet another enjoyable mystery in this series. I almost always have such great fun with these.
One of the best books ever! Read it now!
Oh, I don't know, I'm such a Nancy Drew girl.
This was my first (to my recollection) Hardy Boys book.
The two brothers are contacted by a man who wants them to find an antique cannon.
His intentions with the cannon, his demeanour, his secrecy all stink of suspicion, and the boys have a hard time following up with the client and the other suspects.Okay, I have given this book my lowest rating as yet.
I had a few concerns about it.1.
Some terms are relatively British for a book set in Florida, USA.2.
Anyone who loves the classic Hardy Boys tales will enjoy The Secret of Pirates Hill! A fast-paced adventure seeking a lost seashore cannon sought by a mysterious stranger is a good solid read. Some parts of the story, like most of the classic Hardy tales, are not aging well--such as the use of telegrams--which might baffle younger readers today, but this is a good classic Hardy Boys story that anyone who enjoys the original series will find a good read!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
It started with an attempted murder underwater and ended with treasure. What’s not to love? ... All the body shaming comments about Chet. It is kind of expected considering the time it was written. But there weren’t as many uncomfortable points as I expected.
A combined total of no less than six head injuries in this, not to mention other injuries, this was actually one of the better Hardy Boys stories with a criminal plot that kind of made sense, though why the criminal would employ the Hardy's is anybody's guess.
More treasure in Bayport! There's a ton of treasure in Bayport. Good book though.
Enjoyable and quick. Perfect for a morning at the beach.
Another excellent adventure with Frank and Joe Hardy and their friends. Aunt Gertrude gets to smack a bad guy with a cutlass!
Good oneIt was a great story there were many characters lots of action. Lots of typos in the text however were disappointing in kindle
A fast, fun, frothy palate cleanser featuring pirate artifacts, a race to find a lost treasure, and a mouthwatering clambake.
The Secret Of Pirates HillBy Franklin W. Dixon  Franklin W. Dixon have written so many great books. When he writes he keeps all the mysteries very interesting and keeps the reader wanting to read. Even though that The Hardy Boys books are fictional they still can teach you and help you with some problems that you are trying to figure out using very little detail that you already know. These books are so interesting and keep you thinking what is going to happen next, how will they solve this, are
Dixon 	Franklin W.
When he writes he keeps all the mysteries very interesting and keeps the reader wanting to read.
At the end of the book it makes you think of how the Hardy boys use the littlest details and figure out huge mysteries and how amazing it is how they do it.
I think these books are very interesting even though I don't really like reading books.
If you have never read a mystery book you should give it a chance because you never know if you will love the book or not.
The Secret of Pirates Hill is your typical rollicking Hardy Boys adventure novel, with one notable and fantastic addition - a scene where Aunt Gertrude steps in and saves her nephews by repeatedly whacking the villain with an antique cutlass!
The final triumph for Gertrude is that her bravery is honored by the Historical Society, whose members vote to present her with the cutlass as a trophy.In the typical fashion of the fast-paced Hardy Boys novels, all these events take place within one or two short chapters.
I started reading the Hardy Boys books because my 2 older boys have started reading them and I wanted to make sure that the books they are interested in are good books to read. It is nice to have books around that don't have cuss words, and give the reader something to think about or figure out. My boys love them.
Not all Hardy Boy books are created equal, due probably to different authors. This one was alright. The action jumps and the author assumes you will fill in the blanks that he leaves out. On the plus side, my 9 year old loves the whole series. I think they're written for boys of that age. Apparently it's good enough to keep them interested and reading.
Finished another in the series with my son. I was surprised that the author came up with a new book given the year these series started. I Googled the author and found out that Franklin Dixin is a pen-name and that the series is owned by a publisher.
Most of these were very good. I remember little about what happened in which book. I think this one introduced me to the term "frogman."
Today's vocabulary word is demiculverin.
X2
SM
They are good at scuba diving.
Read this one when I was 18 in 2008. I missed my grandfather who had passed away the same year and this was one of his books. I actually liked it. I wish I owned the whole series.
read when I was 10 through 13
This review is of the original 25 chapter book.
It is my favorite mystery series . And every body should read them.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
It was a pretty interesting book!
It's easily one of the greatest adventures that the Hardy Boys have ever made and I would highly recommend it!
good book so far
