https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1739044.Despised_And_Rejected
I just finished this very moving story. My complete review is on my blog: https://quirkyreader.livejournal.com/...Make sure you have plenty of tissues on hand and someone to hug after you finish it.
Persephone have highlighted its importance, calling it 'one of the pioneering gay novels of the twentieth century.'Despised and Rejected takes two characters as its focus: 'a gay conscientious objector and his relationship with a young woman who (as he realises but she does not) is a lesbian.' Composer Dennis Blackwood is the former of these, and Antoinette de Courcy, a young woman of French descent, the latter.
Wow. I loved this so much. Beautiful, honest and still relevant today.
I'm amazed this exists
Quite an astonishing novel for its day. First publishing (and quickly banned) in 1918, it's the story of a gay composer who tries to repress his instincts by dating a lesbian who is equally confused about her sexuality and place in society. It turns into an anti-war novel as they join a loose group of pacifists who congregate in London tea-shop. The group slowly falls apart as conscientious objectors are imprisoned or give in and join up. Great piece of historical and cultural writing, and not bad character development.
It involves LGBTQ topics, pacifism at the time of war, socialism, pro-semitism (is this a word -I mean the opposite of anti-semitism), bohemian lifestyle, suffragette, pro—Irish, etc.
all the outcasts and misfits of the time.One of the most interesting topics covered in this book is - what did it mean to be gay in 1914?
The gay man in this book knows that he, himself, is working against social norms and is considered to be “sensitive” and “artistic” by his family.The argument for socialistic pacifism gets a bit preachy and blah blah boring.The book is well written.
As a novel, this wasn't great, but as a historical document it was absolutely fascinating. The book follows a group of conscientious objectors during WWI, many of whom are gay artists and musicians. The author, Rose Allatini, draws some really interesting parallels between heterosexuality and militarism (kinda reminded me of Woolf's linking of patriarchy and war in Three Guineas). Definitely worth checking out if you are interested in pacifism, queer female modernists, WWI, or British gay and lesbian history. I could definitely see myself assigning it for a LGBT lit course.
I found the themes/issues brilliant...pacificism, being gay and the fight for women's suffrage in First World War England.What, for me, was less brilliant, was the slow pace and length of the novel.
I realise it is a period novel but given the content, the pace did not seem to match.
That said the themes of equality and understanding for all bubbles under, as the book moves between different social situations and the carefully crafted characters of the piece.It was a fascinating insight into a part of British history that should be better known using the stories of COs (Conscientious Objectors), homosexuals and suffragettes.
A book written in the middle of World War I centered on a lesbian and a gay conscientious objector?
I found that story to be really interesting and I wanted to see how their story progressed but as we went into the second third of the book I felt like the characters and their development fell away and the arguments for being a conscientious objector became the main focus.
What I thought Despised and Rejected could have done better is still have these arguments but also continue the character arcs of Dennis and Antoinette, which for me dropped off at the second third.I loved reading about Dennis and Antoinette realizing and coming to terms with what their sexuality meant to them and how openly it was discussed within the book.
Allatini mixes a sharp sense of humor with a strong sense of pathos that never quite becomes bathos, which makes for an interesting and heart-wrenching read.The plight of the protagonists (caught in a kind of early Chasing Amy scenario) mirrors to a great extent the circumstances faced by the LGBT community today, and as such should inform the third person observer's understanding both of what it means to be gay (although Allatini is by times ambiguous enough as to defy the reader's interpretation of her actual attitude toward homosexuality) and of the struggles that people of this persuasion undergo and face from outsiders.
At the time I read it I found it difficult to read (complex sentences) but it was required for a class. All in all a great story.
great book, under the circumstances that one does a close read. it doesn't offer too much at face value, but it is entertaining regardless. good read. read it.
