https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102114.Savage_Season
I finally got to meet the famous Hap and Leonard that I've heard so much about here on Goodreads. Sorry, Terry Crews is in my head as Leonard Pike. Leonard and Hap are best buddies. Why? I have no clue. They really are not much alike. Leonard is a gay, Vietnam vet who seems pretty mellow at first. Just don't mess with his vanilla cookies.Hap is a guy with a prison record because he wanted to make a statement during the sixties about the war. Hap was kind of stupid then. Now Hap's ex-wife has ret
I finally got to meet the famous Hap and Leonard that I've heard so much about here on Goodreads.
Leonard and Hap are best buddies.
Just don't mess with his vanilla cookies.Hap is a guy with a prison record because he wanted to make a statement during the sixties about the war.
Now Hap's ex-wife has returned to the scene and has a scam up her very short dress.
She wants Hap to find some missing robbery money for her and her new man.
Hap won't do it unless Leonard is involved.
Leonard is not crazy about the ex-wife or the scam.
The two guys are fun.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Joe Lansdale was barely a blip on my radar until a few months ago when it seemed errrrryone started reading his stuff. Since I am an idiot, I had no idea WTF Hap and Leonard even was or that it was a soon-to-be television program. I just knew that Real Dan and Kemper were reading the crap out of these stories and everybody else seemed to be reading Lansdale too. Then during one of our bitch sessions highly intellectual conversations,
Hap and Leonard are just a couple of good ol’ boys – never meaning no harm.
If the paraphrased lyrics above don’t ring a bell or if you are a millennial, there’s a good chance Hap & Leonard probably aren’t the guys you want to spend time with.
However, if you’re not easily offended by foul language or some pretty gnarly asskicking and want to read the best dialogue of your life - Lansdale will provide.
3.5 Stars rounded up because I need some wiggle room as I continue the series and also because the final action sequence went on just a wee bit too long for my liking.
When laborer Hap Collins' ex-wife Trudy pops back into his life with a story about retrieving unrecovered money from a bank robbery, Hap's up for it.
In tow is Hap's best friend, Leonard, a gay black man who happens to be the toughest son of a bitch on the planet.
Hap is an ex-hippy who spent a year and a half in prison for dodging the Vietnam draft and Leonard is a gay black Vietnam vet who is the toughest man on Earth.
There are some pretty brutal images in this one.While Savage Season isn't the best book of the series, it's a great beginning.
But Leonard is black and gay, and Hap is a former damn dirty hippie who got sent to prison for refusing his induction notice during Vietnam as a protest against the war.
So they aren’t exactly the Dukes of Hazard.Years after his prison stay ended his marriage, Hap’s ex-wife Trudy still likes to come around regularly to break his heart all over again.
Trudy is another former flower child who still thinks she can change the world while Hap’s time in prison took care of all his idealistic notions.
A recipe for Delicious Fiction: Take a pair of VERY UNCONVENTIONAL good old buddies + one BITCHOSAURUS of an ex-wife.Add in half a million in lost, stolen money, a group of wannabe radicals and an awesomely PSYCHOlarious duo of drug dealers.Spice all the above with sharp writng, brilliantly witty dialogue, heaping helpings of southern humor and stir in several pounds of violence, bloodshed and betrayals.....
For Leonard it’s pretty straight-forward: he can’t stand the bitch for everything she has put Hap through and has nothing but contempt for her and her “causes.” Well, turns out that Trudy is part of “yet another” radical group that wants to use the stolen money to help fund their activities.
Trudy is willing to give Hap two hundred thousand dollars of the loot for his trouble since she, Howard and their two other confederates have only a vague idea of where the money might actually be while Hap, who was born and raised in the area has a very good idea.
Much to Trudy's consternation, Hap immediately brings Leonard into the action, promising to share his end of the money 50-50.Much against his better judgment, Leonard agrees and what follows is an action-filled and often hilarious romp.
The humor that I found so appealing in the other two Hap and Leonard's that I've read was  here, but not as much, and I found myself wishing for a little more.I'm still glad that I listened to this book, but I will be reading, rather than listening, to the rest of the series.
Recommended to fans of Joe Lansdale!P.S. The narrator of this book, Phil Gigante, has a disturbing recent past, to which he plead guilty, and this, too, played a part in my decision to READ the rest of the series, rather than listen.
This is only my second novel by him, but I know I will eventually try to read them all - he's that good!If I were to break the novel into easier to chew components I would settle for these archetypical building blocks: the location, the team, the sell, the heist, the split, the endgame.
Leonard Pine  : Hap's best friend and guardian angel, a Vietnam vet and a man immune to Trudy's charms (he's gay and proud of it!).
What she wants is for Hap to help her retrieve the loot hidden somewhere in the East Texas marshes, money from a decade old bank robbery.
I decided this year to jump into more books by author Joe Lansdale, and I thought a good start would be his popular Texas crime series featuring his characters Hap Collins and Leonard Pine.
So in bed, he agrees to help her and her new man find a treasure trove of cash lost after a bank heist years ago.
She could really talk in bed, and if she talked long enough and moved certain parts of her body just right, I might agree to have Leonard shot at sunset."
In just this one book, Hap and Leonard become two of the most enjoyable protagonists I've come across in a crime series.
Unlike so many other books, Savage Season has a perfect summary.
The two main protagonists can't be any different even if they tried, but they work well together.
The thing that makes Savage Season different and more interesting than other maybe similar books isn't the plot, but the relationship of the two main characters and their seeming inability to keep their mouths shut.
In the end the author made me feel sorry for them.As an introduction to the series and to these two, Savage Season does what it set out to do very well with an additional unexpected punch in the end.
Il divertimento ha preso scemare quando lo spirito degli anni '60 riesumato come pretesto, li ha infilati in un‘avventura prima strampalata, poi strampalatamente tragica che è costata la vita ad un numero di personaggi da film di Tarantino.
Mi può andar bene veder morire decine di personaggi come mosche senza venir sollecitato emotivamente, non mi va invece che alla fine di quello che è stato il pretesto per un divertimento, sia inserita la lezioncina etica.
Binge watched the first series of the TV adaptation of the Hap & Leonard books, loved it and so I had to read the source novels, since everyone at the AV Club comment pages said they were SO much better.
Not sure I agree, then it's always like that when much loved books make the transfer to the screen- see Game of Thrones, LOTR, and many more ( hence my mixed feelings about the rumoured adaptation of Dorothy Dunnett' s Lymond series, my all-time favorites).
An unlikely friendship but an enduring one based on trust, dependency and mutual support, It's a kind of love though Hap is strictly hetero and Leonard only goes for men.
This dude is such a good writer that I sat down immediately after finishing this book and began writing myself and my output was 25% better than it normally is. Lansdale is just one of those people who understand language, and harness it like a samurai sword. Savage Season, the first of many Hap and Leonard books, was a page-turning crime novel - at times funny, at times touching, at times violent - much like the best Coen Brothers movies are. You're doing yourself a disservice by not reading this book.
On his release from prison Trudi temps Hap into a money making deal or shall we say money finding.A bank job money stash needs to be recovered and she wants Hap to to find it and get a cut.
Thing is, its an idea coming from Trudi's other lover.
Along down the line Revolutionaries and gun deals come into the picture and matters get a whole lot more complicated for Hap and Leonard.This was a good promising starter to a series of books involving the characters Hap and Leonard.
I've read five previous Hap and Leonard adventures, but somehow managed to miss this first outing. Once again, Hap lets "lil' Hap" get him into trouble, and drags mouthy Leonard into the fray. Count on everything to go wrong. And if you have a lick o' sense, better stay far away from Leonard's vanilla cookies.
I had heard about him here and there on Instagram, but then all of a sudden I was hearing a lot from Hap and Leonard fans about how great the books are, and how much it sucks that the television series made from the books was getting canceled.
Everyone else in the novel is pretty despicable, and I have a feeling that Hap is going to continue to be led by his heart while Leonard is the voice of reason.
Ha-Hap...  Se non fossi frocio forse l'amerei anch'io.Ma dal mio punto di vista è solo una puttana con la lingua lunga, e tu un coglione di prima categoria che non sa distinguere tra un'erezione e il vero,dolce amore. Buonanotte. La cosa che preferisco di Leonard è la sua sensibilità.Non male questo mio primo Lansdale, 3/4 stelle! (e arrivederci,cari Hap e Leonard! :D )
Lansdale's novels and short stories are very visceral reads.
Add onto that, a very sharp wit and you rarely come away from one of the author's stales disappointed.Savage Season is the first of a series of suspense novels featuring Happ Collins and Leonard Pine; the first one I have read, but I am eager to devour the rest of the series.
Happ and Leonard seems like an odd couple, a white straight man and a black gay biker, but their rapport and politically incorrect slings at each other sound as natural as it comes in real life.
SAVAGE SEASON is a fast-paced, hard-boiled suspense novel about two hardworking friends, Hap and Leonard, who can't resist the opportunity to make a quick $200,000 a piece.
But nothing comes easy for these two and it isn't long before they're not only dealing with vicious weather but also greedy and psychotic humans.This is a short little book that packs a punch.
It is unflinchingly and sometimes painfully graphic but the characters of Hap and Leonard, who both have a really nasty sense of humor, provide much needed comic relief.
A pretty decent crime caper noir, my first Lansdale, feeling like a cross between the wise cracking 
Talk about instantly falling in love with a writer’s work...by the time the first exchange of genuinely funny and completely natural-feeling banter between Hap Collins and his good buddy Leonard Pine was over I knew I was into some really, really good shit.
Lansdale manages to pack lethal doses of dark humor, brutal violence, social commentary, and the intoxicating East Texas setting into this relatively short book.
That said, even with all the humor and funny situations in this book when shit turns serious it feels it.
When Hap's ex-wife, Trudy, comes to them with a sketchy proposition for making a lot of money fast, Hap's desire for Trudy combines with his and Leonard's need for living expenses, making the opportunity too good to pass up and drawing them into a dangerous scheme that proves to have too many variables.This is probably best described as a backwoods-noir-caper-thriller.
This is one more series I'm sold on.I caught the news that the television adaptation is coming (of course it is) and after reading the casting, I got stuck on picturing Hap and Leonard as James Purefoy and Michael Kenneth Williams in the roles.
Nichts davon ist neu, nichts davon war schon 1990 neu, aber Lansdale versteht es – und das macht einen guten Neo-Noir-Autoren eben aus – eine altbekannte Mischung mit durchaus originellen Details anzureichern und das alles so zu erzählen, daß der Leser sehr gut unterhalten wird.
Natürlich kann sie Leonard nicht leiden, was durchaus auf Gegenseitigkeit beruht, weiß der doch um die Verfasstheit seines Freundes immer dann, wenn Trudy wieder in dessen Leben auftaucht.
This book i would not rate 4 stars for the actual story,plot.I rate it 4 stars because the characters was the rare kind of that take hold of you from page one.
The back and forth quips between Hap and Leonard were great.
Two guys i felt for from the first scene.
They feel so real.It doesnt hurt either that Lansdale is talented writer prose wise,language of the book,his country wit as the blurb say was great read.
I chuckled many times reading some of the lines of Hap,Leonard.Cant wait to read more of Lansdale and Hap,Leonard series.
Fun with a capital F, now I'm a Fan with a capital F, both of Joe Lansdale, and the Hap and Leonard series, of which this is the first. I read "The Bottoms" last month, thought it was a well-written coming of age/mystery novel, so decided to give this one a quick read before watching the series just starting on the Sundance Channel.I'm giving it 5 stars for the pure enjoyment factor, and for not disappointing. Great characters, snappy dialogue, fast-paced action, and a great ending.
OK, this was just plum fun. I'm not up to speed on my Lansdale so I'm just now venturing into Hap and Leonard. I, of course, have heard plenty about them and with the TV show coming up, I decided this might be a great diversion from the horrible reading slump I've been in.Sometimes I make excellent choices.
Decent start for the series but suffers from the "first book" syndrome.
The author tries to balance the introduction of the characters with the actual plot of the story and one or the other is compromised.
In this case it's the plot of the story that is a familiar trope of crime fiction, let's go find the money that was hidden after a heist.
I do like the characters of Hap and Leonard.
But this does feel like one of those deals where you have to push through the setup book(s) to get to the meat of the series.6/10
I love Joe Landsdale's work. I haven't read him extensively, but every time I do I'm taken away by the story, swirled around in it, dumped out at the end like I've been rode hard and put away wet. Hap and Leonard are my favorite Landsdale characters yet.
L'altra faccia del sogno americano Quella di Lansdale è l'America che ha fallito nell'emancipazione 
So it goes in Savage Season, the debut of East Texas good-ol'-boys Hap Collins and Leonard Pine.The troublesome ex in this story is Trudy, Hap's ex-flower-child ex-wife, who, despite having broken Hap's heart years ago, needs only to twitch her well-arranged rump to get him back into bed and wrapped around her ______ [insert body part].
The two of them are well-matched, though Leonard usually gets the best lines.Trudy and Howard, her most recent former lover, are the most completely drawn secondary characters; each has a distinct voice and manner.
