https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/532752.The_Country_Bunny_and_the_Little_Gold_Shoes
This seems like sort of an old-fashioned book at first glance, definitely from before the mid-century explosion of children's picture books.
Although we are talking about bunnies here, undercurrents of race, class, and gender run through this book like freight trains.
Considering that the book was published in 1937, it has struck me as remarkable.
Post Script: I wrote the above without realizing that Heyward, although a white male (I had always assumed that the Country Bunny must be the creation of a woman), is perhaps better known for writing the play that Porgy and Bess is based on.
So clearly he was no stranger to issues of race.
Although I loved my kiddos and being a mother...had I missed my chance to be something?
(Here we could go into the debate of how motherhood is the greatest profession, how fulfilled you should be by it...but let's just move on.)The country bunny had her brood, raised them up to be responsible bunnies and good workers to boot, and THEN she auditioned to be an Easter bunny (something she had dreamed of doing since she was a little bunny).
I can raise my wonderful children to be right and good, and then I can do what's in my heart.If a country bunny can do it, I can too.
This must mean that stealing vegetables out of Mr. McGregor’s garden isn’t a wise choice of jobs if you have high aspirations of becoming the Easter Bunny.
So Cottontail decides that she wants to be an Easter Bunny, but a Jackrabbit told her that that was foolish because he could run faster than she ever could.
Speaking of Easter, since Cottontail taught her children to cook, I have a great Easter recipe for her that she can teach her babies to bake, that is, if she has new babies.
In a bowl, add egg yolk, orange juice, baking soda, salt, whiskey, and sugar; mix well.
In another bowl, add baking powder, spices, orange peel, and flour.
On the surface, it tells the story of a little brown country bunny who would like to become one of five world-wide Easter Bunnies.
Written with a can-do spirit by a white man in 1939!However, the book has another fantastic message that I, personally, loved just as much: the bunny is the mother of 21 little bunnies so she's very busy cooking and cleaning and teaching her children and generally doing all the things every mother usually does.Have you ever tried explaining a long absence from "work" by having raised children?
The Country Bunny has 21 little bunny children whom she has taught various household skills such as washing dishes, making beds, etc.
The Country Bunny goes on to win the competition because of the way she has raised her children.
The second part of the book is actually set on Easter Eve when the eggs get delivered and the very tired Country Bunny takes the last basket to a homebound, invalid little boy.
It is a slightly long read for very young children, but my daughters would sit still to the very last page of this book.
You won't regret it.One of my favorite quotes:"One day a little country girl bunny with a brown skin and a little cotton ball of a tail said, 'Some day I shall grow up to be an Easter Bunny - you wait and see!' Then all of the big white bunnies who lived in fine houses, and the Jack Rabbits with long legs who can run so fast, laughed at the little Cottontail and told her to go back to the country and eat a carrot.
For a children's book published in 1967 about Easter Bunnies it sure touches on topics in an underlying way that are still relevant today.
Race, Gender stereotypes, wealth (or lack of) & motherhood are all addressed with regard to social conventions & it's crazy to see these are still hot topics today!
The plot was a lil far fetched but it is a children's book about an Easter Bunny after all!
But I enjoyed the underlying message which is Yes, regardless of being brown, country, poor, a mother or a woman~ you can make a dream come true if you are worthy & work smart!
This is a very strange story about a determined little country bunny who manages to run a perfect household (mainly by using her excellent delegating skills), raise her 21 children to be well-behaved and accomplished, all while enjoying a great career as an Easter Bunny, delivering eggs to the boys and girls of the world.
And maybe when Zeke is old enough to take over some of the household chores, in another year or two, I can hold my head up with a portion of the pride that this admirable bunny does.The illustrations are adorable.
I recall this one as an Easter story that I read to my brothers oh, so long ago. It was a cute story about how the littlest one can sometimes be the best of all, and if you grow up humble, you will be loved. Or something like that. Will have to borrow this from the library for the little one, and see this again.
"when one of the Easter Bunnies grows old and can no longer run fast, the old, wise and kind Grandfather Bunny who lives at the Palace of Easter Eggs calls the bunnies together from the whole world to select the very best one to take the place."oh my gosh this book was adorable and wonderful and inspiring all at once.
how wonderful that during a time when women were expected to keep house and have babies and stay home to cook and clean, that this little gem of a picture book arrived to inspire little girls to grow up and follow their dream, whether people laughed at them or not, whether people believed in them or not.
This is the longest book my mom has ever read to me! I heard her tell my grandma I needed a nap and she thought it would put me to sleep, but I stayed up until the very end!Mom says she loved this book as a little girl and she loves it even more now because it turns out to be a tale about a working mother who beats the naysayers with class, kindness, and hard work. I thought it was just about some nice bunnies, but OK! -M
Even better than I remembered. Art, moral, everything.
The only thing better than reading Country Bunny and loving it as a child is sharing it with your own child. Little country bunny is laughed at by everyone when she says she would one day like to be one of the five Easter bunnies that take eggs to children all over the world. She grows up, has a family, and settles with never realizing her dream until one of the bunnies retires and she is given her big chance. Her kindness, wisdom, and bravery help her achieve her dream.
One of the greatest picture books ever, I read this over and over as a kid. The story of a sweet little brown mother rabbit who dreams of being an Easter bunny is just utterly delightful. The pictures are simple but I love the color palette, which seems to have sort of gray undertones that somehow remind me of Easter eggs.
The Country Bunny is a true lady. I love what it says on the back of the book. It's difficult to believe that this very modern feminist tale was originally written in 1939...A gem of a fantasy. - Learning
Self confidence, perseverance, a woman achiever who manages to mix work and kids and has great love for kids, and gorgeous pictures of beautiful Easter eggs. What more could you want from a book?!
One of my favorite children's books.
This book inspired me as a child!
I also think there's a lot more symbolism behind the story than is credited to it.
The illustrations, by Marjorie Hack, have that old-timey Easter feel, which I like.
The story evolved through the oral tradition, so it is detailed and captivating.
On the down side, this book wouldn't work well with my storytime kids because of its length, but I think it is an excellent opportunity for someone to practice their storytelling skills for kids or adults.
This is one of those books that's not going to appeal to everyone (really, what book is one of those books?), but I really like it.
Such a different world.
Jackie Robinson was in college (he debuted in 1947).
I mention him in particular because I had to look up the meaning of the phrase "before you could say Jack Robinson" and thought it referred to him.
There are so many other subtle stereotype bending references that given the original publication date I am curious to know how many children of that time were read this book and could reference it as one that changed their perception.
It could be that it is only in hindsight that a new reader could see just how extraordinary this book is.
This is the other of my sister's and my most-beloved books of early childhood.
For years I had forgotten what it was called, but had a distinct memory of a little Easter Bunny taking a beautiful egg to a sleeping child.
While in college, I was looking for books for my nieces and was excited to find it once again.When I was a child, I think it was the pictures that captivated me.
As an adult, and now a mother, I love how it shows all the work, planning, time-management, and love that goes into doing our most important job.

I have magical memories of this book so when I saw it on someone's goodreads account, I quickly added it.
I can't wait to get it at the library and relive the magic.So...it was even better than I expected!
As a child, the magic was in the piles of colorful Easter eggs at the palace, the five swift Easter bunnies, and the final most beautiful Easter egg of all.
As an adult, I love, love, love the against-all-odds-and-others'-opinions, the rewarded-for-goodness, and the be-a-good-mother messages--as well as the eggs.
I think this book is where that all originated!)
This was one of my favorite books to read as a child.
I highly recommend buying this as a bedtime story for your kids, they will love it.
I recently read it in my daughter's class (they have a parent come in a read the child's favorite book for their birthday in lieu of treats or cupcakes) and my daughter was VERY worried that the boys wouldn't think it was cool.
The boys actually liked it better than the girls and several came up to me afterward and told me how much they enjoyed the pictures and the story.
Logan just loves this story and how can I not love a 1930's book that pits a little brown mama bunny against a bunch of arrogant male rabbits and ends with the mama bunny besting them all!? Way ahead of its time. It was not uncommon then to read of young, single women or girls doing tomboyish things, like Nancy Drew. But I don't recall anything where a busy mother manages to still get and hold down a demanding job. Very sweet pictures and an unusual take on the Easter Bunny myth. I never mind reading this one aloud.
This was one of my favorite books as a child.
I'm not sure why, exactly; but reading it now, I am touched by the little country bunny who is raising her (21) children all by herself and is tasked with the enormous and very important job of delivering all of the Easter eggs all around the world when the previous Easter Bunny falls ill.
This is a difficult task, and her last delivery is a very difficult one and she is afraid she will fail the little boy who is looking forward to her visit.
In the end, her strength, faith, wisdom, and kindness and are rewarded.
This is a favorite from when I was a child that our daughter now enjoys. It is a great read at Easter as it relates to the Easter Bunny, but we read it year-round. This is a favorite book though because of the themes it contains. Themes include the importance of everyone helping mom around the house (yeah!), believing in yourself and setting goals, the importance of educating children, the value of different talents and contributions we make in our homes, and the power of mothers and how they can accomplish important things with children at home.
The tale of a beleagured mama rabbit with 21 little bunnies to care for takes on a new adventure: Easter Bunny. After assigning her babies household chores, she hops off to be the fifth Easter Bunny. She thought caring for all of her furry ones was hard, but delivering baskets worldwide is a real challenge. When the Easter Grandfather assigns her with the hardest task of all, she is able to fulfill it and save the hopes of a sick child far, far away with the help of her special shoes. Very much enjoyed by both youngest and myself!
I drank this book as a child. I loved the devoted mother and was enchanted by the creative jobs given to all of the rabbit children and thier united, happy demeanors as they all worked together. I loved the "old, wise and kind grandfathers" powerful gentleness, and more than anything, I loved "the beautiful, sleeping boy". As a mother, the story can become tedious, when read over and over and over again (which is what my children requested), because it is a bit lengthy and not especially poetic, but the message is beautiful. Sweet memories.
I loved this book when I was little. I remember the lovely illustrations and recall admiring the very determined mother bunny... I loved the part when they all dart off across the field for the eggs - she being just a simple brown bunny, not fast like the traditional jackrabbits, was out of place, but she was sure she needed to do this for her children... I could practically feel the mother bunny's heart racing to the top of the mountain, there's something about having a grass roots, life or death motivation driving you to compete and win... brilliant.
