https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/995144.High_Tide_at_Noon
Elisabeth Ogilvie (1917-2006) was a long-time resident of Gay’s Island and Cushing (52 years) and author of the Tide trilogy set on fictional Bennett’s Island (real-life Criehaven): perfect novels that do what perfect novels do, sweep you out of whatever’s going on, good or bad, and into a world of tragedy and humor and unpretentiousness, beautifully described and felt. Ms. Ogilvie lived just down the Cushing peninsula from us, but I didn’t discover that until it was too late. I would have made a pilgrimage.
Not my usual kind of book, but I liked the idea of the island and the lobster fishing - and the writing about island life made me want to see it for myself. Some great descriptive paragraphs.

Juvenalia with the usual warnings about gambling addiction and sexual harassment with an additional indictment of hard work in a small community despite worsening economic conditions where a dwindling lobster haul only provides enough revenue to gas up your motor for another outing.
At the end of the story we learn the reasons for why the island has been deserted and Joanna actually does return to this island at that point to rediscover a lost love to start over again.
I would recommend it to an aspiring writer to learn how to set up a novel with a well crafted storyline and polished descriptions of the natural world and the glory of love.
The story begins with the leading character returning to the island, then jumps back to the time when she was young and her family and other families lived on the island and supported themselves mostly by lobstering.
I had heard that this author was known for her novels about life in Penobscot Bay, Maine, and enjoyed imagining what it would be like to live on an island without electricity or running water and only boats to bring people and supplies.
Only the price of lobsters and date of publication gave any sense of when the story took place---before the mid-1940s.
These are the very finest fiction novels ever written about life in Maine and the lives of the lobster fishermen. (In my longtime reading opinion.)
It's the first in a series about a woman who grows up on an island in Maine, where lobstering is the chief occupation.
The price of lobster is mentioned, and some of the clothing briefly, and the attitudes towards what was considered women's work are all there, but I know some island people who still have the same viewpoints!
The relationships between people are a prime focus, and endure no matter how long ago it was written.
Lush and lovely, hard and unforgiving, desperate and hopeful, this is a wonderful book from 1944.After reading "A Mug-up With Elisabeth," I decided to begin with the Tide trilogy.Joanna Bennett is a fully realized character as are most of those inhabiting this island and novel.
Such fine tuning and awareness of nature, of color and smell and sound, of changing seasons in nature and human life - all makes me excited to finish the trio of books.And I so love the idea that Ogilvie educated herself by doing and watching and writing - all the time - while living on Gay's Island and the mainland near Rockland, Maine.
She lived long and well and remained true to what she knew.
As someone whose family is from a Maine island very similar to the fictional Bennett's, this could be about my relatives.
The copy I read actually belonged to my islander grandmother, a woman whose personality, speech, and mannerisms could have stepped from its pages.
This book encapsulates how I feel about the people and geography of coastal Maine, and how I feel about islands, so perfectly that I can't help but love it.Is it a compelling plot?
Does it have compelling characters?
I think it is very much worth reading.
But that may just be my islander speaking.
I've read the Bennett's Island series by Elisabeth Ogilvie many times and I love them more each time. Ogilvie was a Maine writer and she infuses her stories with vivid descriptions of the physical beauty of the island. But the books are not sentimental. They detail the hard life of a lobstering family from the 1930's through the second World War. It's not really a family saga, though, as most of the books are told through the point of view of Joanna Bennett, who ages through the series. If you love excellent writing and storytelling, I highly recommend this series.
As a new resident of mid coast Maine (Stockton Springs) and son of a southern new england lobsterman, I googled Maine authors/subjects and found Ms Ogilvie. I thought the subject of a Maine Island lobster fishing family would be enough to interest me even if the book was so-so. I was pleasantly surprised when I could not wait to pickup where I left off. A good read. I will continue the triolgy and move on to all her books as I restore my old Maine house with a view of,tho not on the water.
Liked this a lot. Although it was written in 1944, it doesn't seem dated. Life on an island off the coast of Maine - no electricity, plumbing, still the case on smaller islands. Only the price of lobster gives it away - down to 12 cents in hard times! It's sentimental, but still very well written.
I read this series probably 30 years ago and remembered loving them. Ogilvie's descriptions of all aspects of nature of her setting of an island off of Maine are exquisite. I truly enjoyed learning about the life of the lobster fishermen through the eyes of the strong island woman, Joanna.
This is a beautiful start to what became my "Summer on Bennett's Island" - I read all nine books (3 in each trilogy, 3 trilogies). Living on the coast of Maine made it easy to slip into life on the island and with this multi-generational epic story of a strong, close family. LOVE IT!!
Obsessed. I need to go live on a Maine island now.
I stumbled upon this series of books from Ogilvie and I absolutely love them! Such a nice escape from the rat-race life we live in!
Prep for Maine Trip.
I love all the Bennett's Island series....
Well written. My only critisism would be a little too much description but good story. I would go for the second in the series.
3.5 stars. Very summer-y read, despite the book being somewhat dark and depressing at times. Looking forward to the second book in this series.
A lovely old-fashioned read. I could smell the salt sea air and feel the sun on my face. Even learned a bit about lobstering!
Love Elisabeth Ogilvie, love this book...
I loved this whole series! Life on a small island in Maine through important times in history. A great story of a strong woman, lessons learned and love of place and tradition.
