https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5349.The_Rainmaker
“I'm alone and outgunned, scared and inexperienced, but I'm right.” Smooth, savvy, satisfying…I think this is my new favorite John Grisham novel. While not heavy on scholarly nuance, it has some depth and is crisp, right-hearted, expertly paced and reads like ice-cold lemonade on the porch in summertime.* *Please feel free to mentally substitute the simile ‘hot toddy curled up in front of a fire in winter’ if you prefer. While this page-turner is a very easy read, I wouldn’t call this light as G
While this page-turner is a very easy read, I wouldn’t call this light as Grisham does a good job infusing the narrative with a sense of importance and emotional attachment vis a vis the characters and the central plot.
I can think of worse ways to spend time than reading this author's work.PLOT SUMMARY:We meet Rudy Baylor when he has not yet finished his third year of Law School at Memphis State.
Plus, with casting like Danny DeVito playing Deck Shifflet and Mickey Rourke as “Bruiser” Stone, the book had a pretty big uphill stroll to compete.
It differs from most of his other novels in that it is written almost completely in the simple present tense.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم اکتبر سال 1998 میلادیعنوان: باران ساز؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: هادی عادلپور؛ تهران، کوشش، 1375؛ در 678 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: باران ساز؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: آزیتا زیادلو؛ تهران، همراه، 1385؛ در 156 ص؛ شابک: 9646982646؛ چاپ دوم 1387؛ شابک: 9789646982642؛عنوان: شکست ناپذیر؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: فاطمه نصرالله پور؛ قم، نسیم کوثر، 1391؛ در 232 ص؛ عنوان: معجزه سرنوشت (باران ساز)؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، البرز، 1375؛ در 664 ص؛ شابک: 9643282651؛چاپ دوم، تهران، آسیم، 1385؛ شابک: 9644182855؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، پیکان، 1381؛ در 664 ص؛ کتاب «باران ساز» را نخستین بار «جان گریشام» در سال 1995 میلادی نشر داد، هشدار: اگر داستان را هنوز نخوانده اید و میخواهید خود آن را بخوانید، لطفا ادامه این ریویو را نخوانید، داستان یک وکیل دعاوی است به نام «ردوی بایلور»، که تلاش میکند در حرفه‌ اش پیشرفت کند و نیز در پی کمک به کسانی است که خود نمی‌توانند از حقشان دفاع کنند.
The Rainmaker takes readers into the underlying corruption of these large corporate insurance companies, pitting a law school student against an obviously much larger and more powerful opponent.
Rudy's struggle between law school and actual practice, that dry period of no money coming in, is something many readers can probably relate to, as well.
Any college grad will tell you, even if they've never studied law, that student loans and scraping for cash and careers is never an easy pursuit unless they've been lucky enough to have a high-paying job straight out of school.
Because it showed the "other" side of lawyering - the side that isn't romanticized in Grisham's other novels.
That actually leads to a case that Rudy feels passionately about, and along with the storyline revolving around Kelly, makes up the majority of the book.I liked Rudy's idealism, his fear when having to go to court for the first time, his passion (and fear) for Kelly, and his doubts about his chosen line of work.
It was a refreshing change from Grisham's other novels, and a great view of how the not-so-fortunate lawyer grads end up.
Second time I've read this one. It really is a fun, quick and easy lawyer thriller/legal drama.
A very sloppy beginning and an even worse sloppy ending.
I couldn't even feel anything for the main character until close to the middle of the book.
The middle of the book, however, was fantastic.
The centerpiece of the book, the main trial, was handled absolutely fantastically.
There were some detours to remind the reader of other weaker plot lines, but aside from that, I love it!
If I were to recommend this book, I would tell people to stop reading at the verdict because the absolutely pointless love interest plot picks up again and destroys everything good about the book.
Good book, less than satisfying ending...if I say more it will be a spoiler.
I thought it better than some Grisham books.
The struggles of a young lawyer as he faces the more sordid side of life here.****Spoiler Below ****(view spoiler)[This is one of those books that left me sort of worn out with the struggles of life.
It's not an escapist book as if you're having your own struggles going through the ones here will not exactly give relief.
The people here including our protagonist get regularly slapped down by life and even if they "win" they still seem to lose...at least most times.
(hide spoiler)]
My favorite Grisham novel. This is the best one in my opinion. The only one of his books I kept. Rest, I gave them away. Because I have outgrown him . OK, I lied. I kept his Brethren novel too. But you get my point.This was him getting as close to being a poet as he could.*Saying it in South Park the movie fashion* Matt Damon got nothing on this book.
Repeatedly denying the claim of a terminally ill young man apparently just because they could...or so they thought.This book really brings out some important lessons; that in the end, big dreams of wealth, success and power usually end up as just that--dreams!
I think it was Jim Carey who said that he wished everyone could be rich and famous so that then they would realise it wasn't the answer....I love the end of this novel as Baylor realises what's really important to him.There is some swearing in this book and some violence which in places is quite graphic.
One of Grisham's books that I forgot I had read a long time back. Very good!!
Leave it to John Grisham to turn a story that pivots on the technical language of an insurance policy into a riveting court room drama! One of his best.I would've liked A more fleshed resolution to Miss Bertie's problems however.I haven't read a Grisham book since The Runaway Jury in 1997. This book made me want to go back and read his other works to see what I might have missed.
Grisham is at the top of his game here; most of his novels are great first-reads (then give it a toss), but this one has pulled me back in for many re-reads.
In court David nukes the giant, doesn’t just bang him in the forehead, which is perhaps a weakness in this novel; but the Baddies manage to slither out of judgment by declaring bankruptcy.
The hero gets the girl, murders her abusive husband and gets away with it, kills a naughty insurance company, and retires from the law after a 1-0 lifetime score and a $500,000,000.00 victory.
Grisham creates a great protagonist here.
The writing was good enough to keep me turning the pages, but the story lacked and the characters were painfully stereotypical, except oddly enough for the main character.
You expect that there is going to be some sort of obstacle to Rudy winning this case and it helps to keep you interested, but after like three hundred pages,nothing.
Every fact, every witness, everything goes his way so that you know the evil insurance company is going to lose and it won't be close.
He makes it look easy, creating tantalizing and memorable stories; not to mention the colorful and sympathetic characters that populate those stories.The Rainmaker is an early Grisham hit, and it follows he formula this author well known for: pitting an underdog (in this case, a fresh-out-of-school trial lawyer) against a formidable enemy (here it is a scheming Insurance company).
Throw in an interesting subplot about a will reconfiguration to the tune of twenty million dollars, and a domestic abuse case, and you’ve got riveting reading.This novel is unique in Grisham’s body of work: it is the only one to be narrative in first-person simple present tense.
Prepare to finish this one in a matter of days, for it is effortless, thrilling reading served up in classic John Grisham style.
EXCELLENT STORY, EXCELLENTCHARACTER DEVELOPMENT. I believe I read this book a long time ago but did not add it to my list so I revisited the rainmaker. I enjoyed Rudy Baler the young attorney who has met Mrs. Black a woman who son has leukemia and has been denied a bone marrow transplant by her insurance company because he had a,preexisting condition. ( he had the flu 5 years prior to his mother contracting for the insurance)if you haven't read the Rainmaker and enjoy a good story don't hesitate go buy the book.
I was obsessed with John Grisham novels when I was a preteen.
And who would have guessed that Grisham's critique of giant health insurance corporations would still ring so true today?My only complaint is that I hated the narrator for the audio book.
He made Rudy sound gruff and sarcastic, whereas I prefer to think of him as being closer to Matt Damon's interpretation in the movie.
Oh, and having previously worked in a domestic violence shelter, I found Rudy's pursuit of Kelly to be kind of inappropriate and skeezy.
I think their romance is a stretch.
I love the easy way John Grisham writes but this book drifted for me. There were times when I couldn't put the book down and I thought it was going to be one of the classic John Grisham novels but there were other times when the plots lost their way. So close to giving this book a 4 star rating but the finish appeared rushed and spoilt the book.
What almost 40 year old hasn't read a John Grisham novel? Me! I really liked this book. I enjoyed the legal content and thought it was very well written, evident that Mr Grisham had a lifetime of experience doing this before writing about it. I'm very glad I read it, and now am looking forward to some more of his. This might be 4.5 for me I'd say, but loved it!
I really really like this book. The story is well written and keeps readers hooked till the end.

Insurance companies, just as evil today as when this was written. Fast paced, likeable characters, characters you love to hate. Really enjoyed this one.
Only Grisham can make a civil case intense!
John Grisham left me wondering what was about to happen every time I was about to turn the page.
I didn’t have a least favorite character in this book, they were all good, but my favorite character was Booker Kane he’s a problem solver, I can relate myself to him.
John Grisham wrote this book for all trial lawyers, and he likes to write about court and trial issues.
If this book was to made into a new movie I would want Tom cruise to play Rudy Baylor the main character and Derek Luke and Booker Kane.
This is a book for anyone, and anyone who enjoys reading.
In a word, boring.
This book drags on endlessly, with nothing interesting in store.
It is very predictable, and there was no suspense element to it at all.
It also has too many subplots to handle well in a single novel.The protagonist is a very lucky guy who manages to get away with accusations, gets high flying clients even when he is a nobody, gets a judge to be very biased towards him, and a woman who he is attracted to happens to have a husband she does not love.
The book could have easily been 100-150 pages shorter.
I did not find anything very appreciable about this book.
It took me almost 5 months to finish It.The thing is that I wasn't into reading until a couple of weeks and, well, time kept passing.This book is about its main character, the story is good but not amazing. That's why Rudy was the only thing that mattered. He was the center of the attention, even though a case against a big company was on the table.He felt real, human, you could connect with him and that's why I enjoyed the book.I'm not giving it the 5 starts just because I didn't like the final pages.


I really liked this book overall, it had a great beginning, great intermediate and excellent courtroom action however I found the ending to be a bit of a let down. I understand where the author was going with it, however I found it didn't really fit the tone of the book for a character whose been fighting hard and overcome some pretty significant adversity to take the course he did.
This was way better than the movie. Most of the changes that were made for the movie were better in the original. That's what happens when you have to edit for time. I loved watching Leo Drummond go down in flames in the book way more than in the movie. For such a long book (14 discs), the action kept moving along and truly kept my interest. Thanks for the recommendation, Andrew!
