https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9458934-the-lady-in-the-looking-glass
He is beautiful to look at; he gives himself no airs; he understand the meaning of art and literature instinctively; he goes about enjoying his life and making other people enjoy theirs.
Excerpt from "A Society".The book includes:The Lady in the Looking Glass: A Reflection: ★★★★★A Society: ★★★★★ + ★The Mark on the Wall: ★★★★ Review hereSolid Objects: ★★★★Lappin and Lapinova: ★★★★I started this book on Woolf's 136th birthday.
In this collection, her language fluctuates between lyricism and harshness as she describes, in great detail, the different worlds of the people she created based on the sensations, desires and restraints around her.
This group of short stories is another example of the extraordinary skill that Virginia Woolf possessed.
She could take a simple idea and create a thought provoking story.
You could set her anywhere; in a room, on a park bench, anywhere; give her pen and paper and ask her to create a story just from what she sees around her, and oh my, what a story you could get.
That's what she did, that's who she was, and that's what she did in this group of stories, especially in the title story, The Lady in the Looking Glass, and again in The Mark on the Wall.
انسانها همانطور که دفاتر حساب و نامه هایی که جنایات پنهانی را آشکار می سازند،باز نمی گذارند، به هیچ وجه نباید آینه ها را هم در اتاق هایشان آویزان رها کنند."زنی در قاب آیننه" اولین کتابی بود که از وولف خووندم. داستانهای کوتاه وولف نماینده ی بارز جریان سیال هوشیاری و خودآگاه و زندگی درونی هستی اند.ویرجینیا در خاطراتش می نویسد: "اگر بارقه ی تخیل و دلبستگی به کتاب نبود، من زنی کاملا عادی بودم"زنی که شاید بتوان گفت نوشتن دلیل ماندنش بود: " اکنون میتوانم بنویسم و بنویسم. شادی ناب در جهان همین است"
Prone to flights of fancy and delicately intensely lyrical prose, being immersed in the beats of her wings and the great love and compassion she seems to have for everyday life and people as it is for her social milieu can be captivating.
Also, I should not forget 'A Society', which is a little strange but interesting social satire and commentary, for that - feminism - is also one of Woolf's great interests
The Penguin people compared books from this series to a bag of chips in their vlog/making of video because you can't stop yourself from reading them in one go, but Virginia Woolf's book is a lot more like some kind of rich tea biscuit.
Elegant and so soft and creamy it just melts in your mouth (or your mug), but at the same time very homely.
At the same time I love the way this tiny book showcases the whole extent of Virginia Woolf's talent - there are both poetic, stream of consciousness pieces and very political-feminist ones as well a touch of playful fantasy.
Sarcastic, but hilarious. A very good example of creative writing.
I've never read something by Virginia Woolf before and I'm now wondering why I haven't.This little collection of short stories left me transfixed. It's unbelievable how Virginia Woolf had been able to transform something that could have been not so interesting into a story, with a message about human nature, relationships, mental illness and so on, combined with the stream of consciousness, letting the reader know about thoughts and emotions of the characters.Highly recommended.
I have, over the years read a lot of books by Virginia Woolf.
The first story is of someone looking at a friend or is it their own reflection (as my mother suggested) through the window of a looking glass, the description of this view is so perfect, all appears so still like some sort of parallel universe really, the genius of Virginia Woolf is seeing the depth within the minutia of life.
The story I enjoyed most was 'The Mark on the wall' this is a perfect example of how a little whimsy took Ms Woolf to the fundamentals of life...
The Lady in the Looking Glass: A Reflection - 5 starsA Society - 4 starsThe Mark on the Wall - 4 starsSolid Objects - 4.5 starsLappin and Lapinova - 4.5 stars
آدمها نبايد در اتاقهايشان آينه آويزان كنند همان طور كه نبايد دفترچههاي حساب پسانداز يا نامهها را پيش چشم ديگران بگذارند كه جنايتي را افشا ميكنند
آدم‌ها نبايد در اتاق‌هايشان آينه آويزان كنند همان طور كه نبايد دفترچه‌هاي حساب پس‌انداز يا نامه‌ها را پيش چشم ديگران بگذارند كه جنايتي را افشا مي‌كنند
The only thing I can say for sure about these stories is....the writing is absolutely stunning. The content however doesn't make these stories memorable.
Found myself wishing these very short stories could last longer.At first I wanted to give this book only three stars because of this, but then I realized that is the genius of the writing - being able to create characters that engage you, in 10 pages.
The Lady in the Looking Glass, I am telling you frankly, It is not easy to get into the writings of Virginia Wolf, at least my experience is like that only, but you can’t stop yourself after reading few lines of her stories, now that’s the magic of Virginia Wolf.
People should not leave looking-glasses hanging in their rooms any more than they should leave open cheque books or letters confessing some hideous crime.The Lady in the Looking Glass is a collection of five stories, exploring the perspective of women, the way she weave her stories, you get distracted from the main theme and at the same time you try to come back to it from a different tangent.
Like so many books of short stories, even this collection of five stories from the unassailable Virginia Woolf, is something of a flea market.
Ranging from the absolute sublimity of the collection's eponymous story, through to the stolid indifference of "Solid Objects" and the rambling inanity of "The Mark on the Wall", this collection leaves no doubt of the genius of her writing, but suggests Woolf made short shrift of the importance of story-telling.
The difficulty with Woolf is much the same as the protagonist's from "Solid Objects", whose purpose is waylaid by any number of droll diversions.
It is a short collection of five of Virginia Woolf's short stories.The themes of the short stories are linked to her perspective on women.
And as I have read her A Room of One's Own the ideas were not new to me.
But the stories, at times, have the capability of bringing out the element or the phenomenon in a more expressive and poignant way.
This I hoped for in this short story collection.
The last two and specially the last story (Lappin and Lapinova) had the special element of expressing the thought in the story form and they made an impact.
I really want to like Virginia Woolf, and I've tried to, but I just don't think she and I are meant to be, sadly.
Something about her style just doesn't connect with me in the slightest.
I hoped perhaps I might get on better with her short fiction, but of these five stories, three were okay at best, in that I could see what she was doing thematically, but I liked them in concept far better than in execution, whilst the other two were just hard work to even get through in all honesty.It's a shame, but we can't like 'em all, I suppose.
first piece of literature I read by her and I'm impressed! definitely not my last Woolf book, I'm sososo excited for it
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13742683
I don't know if this should even be considered a book since it's literally 4 pages long and I read this in under 10 minutes but I love Virginia Woolf and I consider it a blasphemy not to include one of her works, no matter how small, in my read pile.
So that's that.I have yet to read a novel by Woolf, but I am so incredibly in love with her writing that I know for a fact that no matter what she writes, I will be obsessed with it.
ในงานรวมเรืองสันชินนี เราเหนถึงความเปนสมัยใหมและประเดนตางๆ ที VW พยายามสือออกมาไดชัดเจนกวาในแบบนิยาย เพราะดวยเรืองราวทีไมยาวมากรวมถึงไมไดมีความหลากหลายของตัวละครและกระแสความคิดของตัวละครมากเทาไหร คือตอนเราอาน To the Lighthouse เราคอนขางสับสนนิดหนอย เราชอบงานเขียนของ VW ทุกเรืองทีเคยอานมา ทุกเรืองราวมันมักเตมไปดวยเรืองเพศ บาดแผลทางจิตใจ รวมไปถึงการเสียดสีงานวรรณกรรมทีในสมัยนันงานเขียนมักยอมรับฝีมือของผูชายมากกวาผูหญิง ในงานเขียนทีเตมไปดวยความคิดตัวละคร มันแฝงสิงเหลานันไวแนบเนียน เราทำความรูจักตัว
ในงานรวมเรื่องสั้นชิ้นนี้ เราเห็นถึงความเป็นสมัยใหม่และประเด็นต่างๆ ที่ VW พยายามสื่อออกมาได้ชัดเจนกว่าในแบบนิยาย เพราะด้วยเรื่องราวที่ไม่ยาวมากรวมถึงไม่ได้มีความหลากหลายของตัวละครและกระแสความคิดของตัวละครมากเท่าไหร่ คือตอนเราอ่าน To the Lighthouse เราค่อนข้างสับสนนิดหน่อย เราชอบงานเขียนของ VW ทุกเรื่องที่เคยอ่านมา ทุกเรื่องราวมันมักเต็มไปด้วยเรื่องเพศ บาดแผลทางจิตใจ รวมไปถึงการเสียดสีงานวรรณกรรมที่ในสมัยนั้นงานเขียนมักยอมรับฝีมือของผู้ชายมากกว่าผู้หญิง ในงานเขียนที่เต็มไปด้วยความคิดตัวละคร มันแฝงสิ่งเหล่านั้นไว้แนบเนียน เราทำความรู้จักตัวละครเหล่านั้นไม่ใช่เพราะว่าบริบทและคุณศัพท์ที่คนเขียนบรรยายลักษณะให้โดยตรง แต่เราทำความรู้จักตัวละครโดยโผล่เข้าไปในความคิดตัวละครทันทีตั้งแต่หน้าแรกที่เปิดมา เรานั่งอยู่ในความคิดตัวละคร มองและพินิจความไหลไปเรื่อยทางความคิดเหมือนจิ๊กซอที่เราต้องมานั่งปะติดปะต่อเอาเองว่าแล้วก็อ่าน Orlando: a biography ต่อ ☕️
A collection of five short stories, this book just goes on to prove that Woolf can never disappoint you (It's my second, so yea). Woolf's style is peculiarly intriguing; she uses miniature imageries allowing us to delve deeper into the human consciousness. What might seem to you a useless information, it actually is imperative to the character. You give her one simple idea and she'll weave something extraordinary.After reading the first story, I was so overwhelmed that I didn't like the subsequent ones as much as I did the first.
This collection contains five of Virginia Woolf's short stories, all of which were beautifully written as I found characteristic of her from reading To The Lighthouse.
3.75
โลกเเหงจินตนาการและภาพทีวูลฟสรางขึนใหตัวละครของเขาไดเหนนัน สวยงาม เเตซอนภาวะความเจบปวดเเละบาดลึกไวอยางเเนบเนียนมาก # VirginiaWoolf first time
โลกเเห่งจินตนาการและภาพที่วูล์ฟสร้างขึ้นให้ตัวละครของเขาได้เห็นนั้น สวยงาม เเต่ซ่อนภาวะความเจ็บปวดเเละบาดลึกไว้อย่างเเนบเนียนมาก # VirginiaWoolf first time
ชอบเรืองทีสองกับเรืองทีหา อานเพลินๆ
ชอบเรื่องที่สองกับเรื่องที่ห้า อ่านเพลินๆ
Wonderful stories with so much humor and food for thought.
For a list of the full 50 titles in this series visit my blogAfter reviewing the first in this 50 book mini series, I managed to hunt down the penultimate book and found it equally as fascinating.Virginia Woolf is one of those authors who is known for her excruciatingly deep prose; accounts that are drawn deeply from the well of life.
For her, stories can be drawn forth from something as simple as a reflection on a mirror or a hole in the wall.
Which is precisely what she explores in 'The Lady in the Looking Glass' and 'The Hole in the Wall'.
This is a nice little showcase of all the various sides of Woolf and gives us a glimpse of her eclectic tastes and mastery of life observations.
I remember loving "A Society" when I read this the first time.
A short story about a group of women figuring out that men may rule the world but they are sure not superior in every way as they believe them to be in the beginning.
While I enjoyed "The Lady in the Looking Glass" mostly for her great way with words, I really don't get 'The Mark on the wall'.
No story, but also not poetic enough to hold my interest.
I can't even remember what "Solid Objects" is about...
Even though I've read it twice now.
It's a heart breaking short story about a loving marriage falling apart.
This is a tiny collectionof five short stories and it was fun to read them, but I didn't like the first three stories - "The Lady in the Looking-Glass: A Reflection", "A Society" and "The Mark on the Wall" - so much.
I loved to read about the lonesome collector in "Solid Objects" and I also liked the sad story about the marriage of "Lappin and Lapinova" very much.
So I think, I'll have to read more by Virginia Woolf to come to a decision about liking her or not :) For the moment it was a nice diversion.
The five stories in this collection give a pretty complete look at Virginia Woolf. One I liked in particular was ten pages of writing about a dark spot on the wall, the nature of which she speculates about with a stream of images. I find Woolf at her best when writing that sort of stream of consciousness description, while on the other hand her narratives often become confused by the same wandering prose. If all the stories were as cohesive as the former, I would have given the book a higher rating.
