https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262229.Q_is_for_Quarry
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Q is for Quarry, the 17th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2002 by Sue Grafton. An interesting fact about this books: it's based on a real-life case and discovery. A body was discovered on the road side. Police couldn't figure out who the woman was. No leads on the case. It sat dormant for nearly 20 years. Grafton hoped to shed some light on the case, as it happened in the 1960s. (Remember, her books take place in the 1980s). In Q is for
4 out of 5 stars to Q is for Quarry, the 17th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2002 by Sue Grafton.
An interesting fact about this books: it's based on a real-life case and discovery.
In Q is for Quarry, the cops who worked the case are older and unable to do any legwork, but they want to solve it before they die.
In real-life, Grafton worked with artists on facial re-construction surgery and helped move the case forward.
I enjoyed this one and would recommend it to series fans and as a new read for someone interested in this type of mystery.
This is my first Kinsey Millhone book in the alphabet.
I choose to start with Q because I'm doing a game and I needed a book to read that started or had the letter Q in the title.
I did enjoy the book and I enjoyed reading about Kinsey and getting to know her.
I didn't think it was a great book.
One issue I took was that Kinsey didn't really solve the mystery so much as stumble upon the person.
I guess I like stories where the person figures it out on their own.
I'm sure if I read a few more I would get hooked though.
I loved the interaction between Kinsey, Dolan and Stacey.
You really get some insight and can see just how much more comfortable Kinsey is with people older than her versus closer to her own age.
The cold case is especially engaging and I loved it.
She and Dolan/Oliphant come at this case from many angles trying to get just one sliver of information to bring the cold case to an end.
He is so adorable and intelligent – what a great addition to the story.I loved how at the end of the book the author explains the case that was her inspiration for this one and gives the reader some insight into how her story came together.
Sue Grafton is the sweetest smartest woman that you'd ever hope to meet.
In this book Sue tell what MIGHT have happened to this woman in hope that it would jog someone's memory.
Q, as a novel in a series by a great mystery/suspense write stands out because of the special nature of the story, the factual information put forth, the money and time spent to turn her remains into an actual face and persona.
Sue Grafton used her fame, money, and connections, along with her compassion to tell the story in Q, and to bring to light the life and death of a real woman.
I first read this book several years ago and it has stuck in my mind ever since then.
When a book can keep you thinking about it for years, the author is definitely doing something right!Kinsey is contacted by Con Dolan, a police detective that has come up in many of the previous books, to help him with a cold case.
He wants to reopen a Jane Doe murder case that they had first investigated 18 years ago.
The sad end to that is, however, that the Jane Doe she heard about has still never been identified or the murderer brought to justice.
Q is for Quarry is the 17th book in Sue Grafton's excellent Kinsey Millhone (alphabet) series.One of my favourite in the series so far, made all the more interesting as it is based on a real 1969 Jane Doe Murder that I believe is still unsolved today.
Grafton became interested in this unsolved case and sponsored a forensic sculptor to do a likeness of the victim, which she included at the back of this book in hopes that someone will recognize the picture.
Grafton is also very good at delineating the details of character development.Overall, I would recommend this book as an interesting read.
If you can get past the ridiculous amount of junk food the characters consume, which seems beyond extreme, you will find this to be a good read and worth the time invested.
Kinsey works with two older police officers who are winding down their careers.
They want to identify the Jane Doe in a cold case from 18 years earlier.
I enjoyed Kinsey's interactions with the two older police officers.
While their main goal was to identified the Jane Doe, the case gets more complex, and leads them on a hunt for a killer.The 17th book in the Kinsey Millhone alphabet series.
This novel was based on a true case of a young woman who was found killed and never identified.
So far, that case has never been solved and the woman remains unidentified.I listened to an audio version of this book.
I had skipped ahead to a couple of less than stellar outings and took a while to come back and fill in the gap.
Q is for Quarry is a pretty good one looking at a cold case.
Kinsey is still stuck in the 1980s and we see a portrait of derelict America in the California she shows us.
Towns are subsiding into rotten boards and sand; shops are closed and gutted, mansions derelict and waiting to be demolished.
Kinsey is helping a couple of cops / ex cops track down a dead woman's identity and her killer.
4 StarsConsistent goodness...
We get a nice little break from the mess that is Kinsey's life.
She has had some close calls in the last few books; so I guess the author figured she needed a break.Kinsey is working a cold case with a former colleague and his partner; of a young girl from 1969.
Like I said earlier; consistent story and plot throughout, with a nice culmination of all the facts.
I had a good feeling about who the killer was; but nothing confirmed until I was almost done.
I liked the pacing of the story and look forward to the letter R.
This was the first book that got me hooked on the alphabet Kinsey Millhone series. Inspired by a still unsolved murder in Santa Barbara County, Sue Grafton weaves a compelling and suspenseful story that is filled with clever twists and turns. The book was awesome and kept me wondering who the murderer would turn out to be right till the end.
What a stark contrast 'P' and 'Q' make, having read these back to back. The former is no more than a business-like version of her model, whereas the latter is so much better. Read to the end of 'Q' to find out why, I wouldn't want to spoil it by explaining it here!
This is the third book that I have read in this series and I have been reading them out of order, which seems to work just fine.
I love this private detective.
Also, since I have been "reading" them through the audio books, I love the reader, Judy Kaye.
Each time I get my hands on another audio of Kinsey Millhone, I look forward to hearing Judy Kaye read.A very cold case has caught the interest of a couple of police detectives.
So, he decides to get Kinsey interested and the three of them to launch a new investigation.
A very satisfying and interesting read.
This was probably the best yet in the series, IMHO.
1/3 of the books are dedicated to such meandering drivel & so I just gloss over it & move onto the salient, plot-furthering points.
This story read like an episode of the now-defunct TV series, "Cold Case", of which I was a devotee.
Ms. Millhone teams with a pair of actual police detectives, as opposed to her wanna-be detective self & by either extension or association, or both, the plot is enhanced exponentially from her well-established meandering.
I might actually be able to finish the series without outside provocation.
Most enjoyable. I've enjoyed every one of the series to - date. I liked the characters in this one; the two old cops, Dolan and Stacey who involve Kinsey in their cold case. They are like a bickering old married couple. The cold case was interesting; I did think at times that there were great leaps in the solving of the case, but hey, it's a mystery story. Ms. Grafton also makes the peripheral characters interesting. Nobody is totally unlikeable, even the suspects. All in all, another good story from Sue Grafton.
I'm a big fan of author Sue Grafton, and re-reading "Q is for Quarry" inspired me to re-read all her books from "A" to "W." I can't select a favourite because the author never seems to run out of steam and I enjoyed all of them.
If you like murder mysteries with a quirky, interesting, clever, female, private investigator, I suggest you start at "A" and read all of them.
The books are "stand-alone" stories, and you can begin anywhere in the alphabet and Grafton will put you in the picture right away.
Enjoy all or as many as you can find!
I loved this from the beginning. A good solid story to get your teeth into. Kinsey and friends end up solving an old murder case and it kept me interested the whole way.
In Q is for Quarry, the seventeenth Kinsey Millhone mystery, Sue Grafton again moves most of the action away from Santa Theresa, this time (mostly) into a nearby Arizona town where she and Santa Theresa Police lieutenant Con Dolan work on identifying a murder victim from 1969, fifteen years (or so) past.
It's nice to see Grafton moving things along in that area.If you've never read a Kinsey Millhone novel, I wouldn't recommend this one for starters, but you could do a lot worse.
The interactions between Kinsey and the men were quite realistic, and we notice that Millhone, at the fictional age of 37, grows older herself most gracefully -- she's still an independent "cuss", but one with failings and pressures with which we can all identify.The closer the trio got to the ultimate truth, Grafton kept piling on the suspects in such a way that the suspense built to the very final page.
And unlike the end of "P", which roiled her readers, this one has the usual closing epilogue in which Kinsey "respectfully submits" all the final facts and outcomes.As great icing on the cake, "Quarry" is based on a true life Santa Barbara County (Calif.) Jane Doe that similarly 33 years ago was a murder victim never even identified.
She is still settling into her new office space as two soon-to-be retired police detectives contact her about working on a cold case related to a young woman whose body was found almost 20 years prior.
and prove fatal.In the Author's Note, readers learn that Grafton actually had this case inspired by a real cold case she learned about from a a family.
She provides details that are known in the real case and encourages readers to contact the authorities (with contact information provided) if they know anything that could be of help.I thought this was really an interesting case.
Seventeen down, nine more to go.When Sue Grafton created a female detective in 1982 with "A Is for Alibi," she committed herself to 26 books.
I jumped at the chance to review this Kinsey Millhone novel.
I bought my first Sue Grafton book when she was on the E (is for Evidence) of the series.
Unburdened by men, children and pets, Kinsey Millhone is morphing into Nancy Drew for adults.Grafton uses the rekindling of family ties to redress these issues.
Kinsey learns that the body was found on property owned by her late grandparents.
This time around author Sue Grafton was inspired by a real life cold case involving a teenage girl’s murdered body being found, never identified, and of course never solved.
Kinsey teams up with a couple of retired detectives, both with significant health problems who alternate hospital stays while Kinsey pounds the pavement.This is most definitely a police procedural story requiring the hard work and constant digging for clues via looking through old case files and interviewing lots of people even if there is very little hope that they will be able to provide any useful information.
This is 17th book in the Kinsey Millhone series and while I adore Sue Grafton’s work, this was not exactly my favorite of the series.
Grafton is a master of pacing, giving both Kinsey and the reader just enough time to catch our breath in between scenes.
The answers are found later in the series, but it is a bit confusing if you were a first time reader.
Fortunately, 17 books into the series, I think that Grafton has earned the right to extend her questions across books, and even let her characters while just a little bit.My review: 4 of 5 tars this time.
The outcome is fiction as are character names, the actual investigation 18 years after the body was discovered, and Kinsey's involvement but the Jane Doe case happened and is still unresolved.
In this title Kinsey's PD contacts ask her to participate in trying to solve a Jane Doe case that is 18 years old.
A girl's body was found dumped near the Lompoc Quarry and it just so happens it was on Kinsey's family property.
It is there that Kinsey and her partners discover key facts about the deceased girl and uncover family secrets that someone wants to stay that way.
I think Sue Grafton does a good job of allowing you to enter the series at any point without having read all or most of the previous books.
The most interesting part of the book for me was the cops' personal stories: their ongoing and serious illnesses handled in the midst of dealing with the case and their relationship with each other and Kinsey.
Because of that shift, the quarry becomes less significant and probably wouldn't have made it into the title were it not for the need of a Q word.
It will be interesting to see how Sue Grafton winds up the series in Z.
This is my first Kinsey Millhone mystery in a couple of years, and a discovery I made while reading it may explain why I've kind of lost my taste for this series.
Grafton is in good form here, teaming up Kinsey with a couple of retired cops working a cold case -- the murder of a Jane Doe found dumped in a quarry 18 years before.
As a result, Grafton has robbed herself and her character of the opportunity to live the real world of today and remains mired in the far less interesting world of 1987.
Did I mention that Kinsey has a connection to that quarry?
Also, Virginia seemed to be so eager to prove that Kinsey could be a strong woman, that she left her niece without many of the skills that everyone needs to thrive as an adult.Likes: Conrad Dolan and Stacey Oliphant had a great chemistry when it comes to both police work, as well as their friendship.Kinsey’s Aunt Susanna and her daughter showed great tenacity in order to bring Kinsey back to the family.And it was fun when Kinsey introduced Stacey to fast food.Conclusion: This was a pretty good book.
This was a good one!
And pretty long too!
I liked Kinsey helping Dolan and Oliphant in a cold case.
It was good to see a lot of camaraderie because Kinsey is usually pretty solo.
Took me books and books (I listened to them on audio mostly) to realize she wasn't saying Tom or Don, that it was Con Dolan and then on book 17 I finally find out that Con is short for Conrad!
:) But this was a good book and I enjoyed the Author's Note that this was and still is a real cold case in California.
This was not my favorite of the series. There seemed to be an endless reviewing of old leads that led nowhere, followed by a confusing series of interactions where pretty much everyone lied or omitted relevant facts for no discernible reason. I like all the books in the series, and I managed to stick with this one until the end, but it was a little bit of a struggle.
✭✭✭✭
