https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49929.Heidi_s_Children
I love this book, because it finishes telling about what happened to Heidi --it is a sequel written by a different author who also wrote Heidi Grows Up. Tritten deftly weaves pieces of the original book into this charming sequel,(which includes a bit of a mystery), and stays true to the characterization of the original. My original copy fell apart from being read so many times, luckily I was able to find a replacement of the same edition.
When I was seven or eight, there was a block of flats near my home which were condemned.
My sister, her friend and I spent several afternoons exploring the old flats.
In one of them, I found abandoned copies of Heidi Grows Up and Heidi's Song.
I read them, loved them, and lost them.In need of comfort recently, I reread Heidi and then bought the sequels from Amazon.
I love the way we discover more of the Grandfather's past - including his name!
I kind of want to put 'Adelheid Halm' (Heidi's maiden name) on a bookmark now.
A gift from my Grandmother Cassidy the year she died.
I even enjoyed the Shirley Temple movie version of the story, even though it was not that close to the original.For my tenth birthday, I received Heidi Grows Up. It was so much fun to read Tritten's continuation of the beloved story.I had no idea that there was a second sequel until about four months ago when I read Barbara Fisher's March House blog, highlighting her latest find, Heidi's Children.
It was nice to see a fresh reminder from so many years ago!!I think this book (in fact, all 3 of them) would be a fine addition to any pre-teen's library.
The plot was compelling. The dialog was unrealistic. It was a good story about Heidi's life with Peter and the demise of the Alm Uncle.
Heidi:"I've always wanted a little girl to mother..."Jamy: " If you can give Marta part of your faith in these mountains and the Lord that made them, that will help." Marta develops a key relationship with Alm Uncle (Grandfather) that leads to illuminating his painful emotional past he has kept secret all these years ---and binds all the characters together in a satisfying way.
she needs repetition and time to understand and absorb its messages of asking the Dear Spirit for a kinder heart, stronger will, broader mind, and purer life.And, yes, if readers wonder: Heidi and Peter have twins whose names are suggested by grandfather (and accepted by Heidi and Peter):Tobias and Marta.
This is a repeat of my review for Heidi Grows UpI had completely forgotten that the sequelae to Heidi were written by someone other than Johanna Spyri.
I approached a re-read with caution and rediscovered that Charles Tritten was Spyri's translator and a personal friend and that alone made it more of a sequel and less of a cashing in on a famous book kind of thing.
It reads pretty faithfully to the original - though Peter seems to have grown a few brain cells in the interval - and I take it kindly that Tritten says he wrote to two books because children were asking for the story and Spyri herself would never have refused any child's request, especially after her only son died.
This books have something that always make me feel at home! Easy to read and full of beautiful moments when we can see how much Heidi has grown up, it is surely a great continuation for everyone who want to know what happened with that amazing girl and all her companions!! It is also full of new dicovers about her beloved grandpa! So, if you love Heidi and want to know more about her, 'Heidi and Peter' and this book would be perfect for you!
I remember reading this waaay back in elementary school and absolutely loving it. But somehow HEIDI'S CHILDREN didn't hold up through adulthood. This book focuses more on Marta than on the characters we come to love in HEIDI, and while 10-year-old-me liked her well enough to check this book out of the school library again and again, 25-year-old-me mainly just thought she was annoying. A bit disappointing, but not enough to completely ruin my enjoyment.
Bought for me by my aunt for xmas it was a lovely read and you finally had a full history of the grandfather. I still have the trilogy to this day and have read it as an adult some years ago now. I keep it for the memories it envokes of a treasure bought by my aunt.
Contented sigh. I very much enjoy the grown-up Heidi that Tritten gives us. His first sequel (Heidi Grows Up) was good but not great. Plot was a little meandering. This second sequel has a better plot and some of the same wisdom and faith found in the original Heidi.
I picked this baby at my local libaries book sale last year. Perhaps not a work of deep and astounding fiction, it was still a fun read, and enjoyable to return to a character from my childhood and find her grown up, but unchanged in character.
I hope this book will make me happy!
I thought I had read this years ago, but if I did, I had not remembered what an incredible retcon it is!Fun read, but not nearly as good as the original.
i love reading too my son. and he can read it today his kids. easy read.
I think I could read my daughters anything if I just put the word "Heidi" in every now and then and they'd love it, so strong is her appeal. But really, this wasn't great.
Lovely continuation of the Heidi story. All characters are very likable,and the story is very sweet without being too cutesy.
Good rounding off of the stories with an even better feel-good factor!
I love the Heidi series - the first novels I ever read. The copies I have were my Mother's from her childhood, so old and very treasured.
The last of the two "Heidi" sequels written by Frau Spyri's English translator. It's worth seeking out as unfortunately It is currently out of print.
It wasn't a bad read, but I think because the writing is obviously different, it just doesn't have the sweetness and star quality that Heidi had.
really good and of course exciting!!!!!!!!!!!!!
More about Jamy's sister from the previous sequel. I guess another kid to get to know the grown-up Heidi, Peter and now frail Grandfather to get the story moving.
Was nice to read but not my cup of tea. Maybe and hopefully with the sequel...
