https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4981.Slaughterhouse_Five
He lays catatonically in a hospital bed after the plane crash and the death of his wife, and all the time traveling back and forth from Dresden where toddlers and families and old grannies and anti-war civilians were burned alive in a carefully organized inferno (so it goes), and Billy is about ready to agree to absolutely anything.
Therefore, Billy agrees with the hateful, the cruel Mr. Rumfoord, who is revising his military history of WWII, having previously forgotten to mention the Dresden bombing, which cost twice as many innocent lives as the nuking of Hiroshima.
It's about sanity and insanity.It's about aliens (not the illegal kind, the spacey kind).It's about life.It's about death.so it goes."That's one thing Earthlings might learn to do, if they tried hard enough: Ignore the awful times and concentrate on the good ones." This is how I live my life.
Like so many Americans these days, I feel I'm in a rut.
This book got me thinking.
because of the "good ones".
And what makes "good ones" is our ability to create and enjoy creating.....at least I think so."Write it.
I think that's what Mr. Vonnegut was getting at.
Take, for instance, Vonnegut's endless repetition of the phrase 'So it goes.' Wikipedia informs me it crops up 106 times in the book.
And while I'm at it, couldn't some discerning editor have done something about the monotonous quality of Vonnegut's prose -- about the interminable repetition of short subject-verb-object sentences?
As a result, there were times when I felt like I was reading a bare-bones outline of a story rather than the story itself.
In short, I liked the book, but it took some doing.
It's the only way he can look at the despair that has happened and make sense of it.When my grandfather died and I read this, I felt as if it was just what I needed because I could escape back into time and remember the good memories of my grandfather...if they existed (even if in some fourth dimension) then he was just as dead as he was alive and eating peanut butter chocolate ice cream.
I finally read a war novel.
And after a long time I finally read something with so many GR ratings and a decent number of reviews which is precisely the reason I have nothing much to add to the already expressed views here.
By the time I got to know about it I had already watched too many movies and crammed endless number of answers about when and where such n such war was fought.
And so on.My Grandpa gave this hearty laugh he is famous for and said that I’m missing one important question: Why the war happened at first place?
I thought for a while and answered: Because it always happens.
The walls surrounding him are dotted with windows looking out on darkened memories and foggy expectations, easing the sense of claustrophobia but offering no way out.
The ceiling is crushing down on this man while he paces frantically through other people's lives and memories in hopes of shaping his own and forgetting the enormity of oblivion looming above his head.
He reads book after book after book.
The man is consoled, recognizing that fraction as an eternity.
He sees his situation with a new light emanating from his own eyes and, looking up, notices the oppressive ceiling is no longer there.
There are only a few books that I ever really try to revisit.
I have read this book every year since my first reading almost ten years ago.
This novel gets me to question not only life, but what it means that I was the lucky sperm to reach the egg, or that I was the lucky egg that was implanted.
Oh dear, I fear I am convoluting what it is I am trying to say.
Okay, here goes: This book questions war.
But it doesn't try to give bullshit answers.
In fact, it really doesn't try to give answers to anything.
This book is an absolute masterpiece and it makes it clear in every single sentence.
You just got to take it as it comes, so to say.Before reading, I was worried that I might have trouble with the writing style.
English isn't my first language and the older a book is, the more trouble I seem to have with the writing (because of obsolete words, unusual sentence structures, ect.).
Honestly, I could write a thousand more reasons why I loved this book, but in the end I would just repeat myself, because I seriously just loved every.single.little.thing!
A fun visit with cantankerous old Uncle Kurt.
Vonnegut is on a short list of my favorite authors and this is perhaps his most famous work.
Not his best, but most recognizable.
Billy Pilgrim is also one of his best characters.
(Kilgore Trout is his best).I liked it as I like everything I have read of him.
The recurring themes and characters, use of repetition for emphasis and comic relief, his irreverence and postmodern lack of sensitivity shine bright as ever here.
Vonnegut can be funny and grim on the same page, same sentence even, and not lose relevance or sincerity.
A strange and intriguing book that I found very hard to rate: a mixture of wartime memoir and sci fi - occasionally harrowing, sometimes funny and other times thought-provoking.PLOT It is the episodic story of Billy Pilgrim, a small town American boy, who is a POW in the second world war, later becomes a successful optometrist and who occasionally and accidentally travels in time to other periods of his life, so he has "memories of the future".
What we love in our books are the depths of many marvellous moments seen all at one time", which is surely what Vonnegut was trying to create for mere human readers.

Now for something completely different , stating it mildly ...Billy Pilgrim is not just another time travelling man, kidnapped by aliens from the unknown planet Tralfamadore and put in their zoo, he's an eyewitness to the destruction of Dresden, during World War Two. Our Billy an optometrist, (eye doctor) marries the boss's slightly overweight daughter Valencia (who no one else wanted, people are so unkind) .
The salacious activity gives the inhabitants of this planet many hours of entertainment...Billy will never really die, he will always travel through time and space forever."So it goes".
375. Slaughterhouse-Five = The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death, Kurt VonnegutSlaughterhouse-Five, or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death (1969) is a science fiction-infused anti-war novel by Kurt Vonnegut about the World War II experiences and journeys through time of Billy Pilgrim, from his time as an American soldier and chaplain's assistant, to postwar and early years. It is generally recognized as Vonnegut's most influential and popular work. A central event is Pilgri
والدین: کورت وانگات سینیور، ادیت لیبرآثار: رمان‌ها: ‍پیانوی خودنواز (1952 میلادی)، آژیرهای هیولا (1959 میلادی)، شب مادر (1961 میلادی)، گهواره گربه (1963 میلادی)، خدا شما را حفظ کند، آقای رزواتر (1965 میلادی)، سلاخ‌خانه شماره پنج (1969 میلادی)، صبحانه قهرمانان (1973 میلادی)، اسلپ استیک (1976 میلادی)، محبوس (1979 میلادی)، مجمع الجزایر گالاپاگوس (1985 میلادی)، ریش آبی (1987 میلادی)، زمان لرزه (1997 میلادی)، مرد بی‌وطن (2005 میلادی).
خلاصه این داستان: بیلی پیلگریم، قهرمان داستان، در زمان خدمت خود در ارتش آمریکا در جنگ جهانگیر دوم، قابلیت حرکت در زمان را پیدا می‌کند، و از آن لحظه به‌ طور همزمان در زمین، و در یک سیاره ی دور، به نام: ترالفامادور، زندگی خویش را پی می‌گیرد.
yet another book that i didnt read in school but decided to pick up later in life.
and i think this is one of the rare instances where i think i would have benefited from some educational instruction to supplement my reading, because i did not seem to get this on my own.i mean, on a surface level, i understood the anti-war tones and commentary on society in general, but anything deeper than that eluded me.
so taking this at face value, i think its safe to say this is a really weird book.
however, this didnt impact me as significantly as it was probably meant to.
It is an absurd look at war, memory, time, and humanity, but it is also gentle.
Its prose emotionally feels (go ahead, pet the emotion) like the tug of the tides, the heaviness of sleep, the seduction of alcohol, the dizziness of love.
Obviously, part of the brilliance of this novel is born from the reality that Vonnegut is largely playing the notes of his own song (obviously, obscured by an unreliable narrator, time that is unstuck, and generous kidnapping aliens).
Vonnegut aimed at war and hit everything.
War and absurdity ensue.I've never read Kurt Vonnegut up until now and when Slaughterhouse-Five showed up in my cheapo ebook email a few days ago, I decided it was time.
Get it?Slaughterhouse-Five is often classified as science fiction but it reads more like Kurt Vonnegut trying to make sense of his World War II experiences through a humorous (at times) science fiction story.
Slaughterhouse-Five is basically a collection of non-chronological events in Billy Pilgrim's life: his experiences in World War II, his life after the war, and his abduction by the Tralfamadorians, aliens who view events in time simultaneously rather than chronologically.The bleakness and black humor go together surprisingly well, like beer and White Castles.
Vonnegut writes these deceptively simple declarative sentences, jumps around in time, introduces characters who won’t reappear until much later (if at all), and sometimes stealthily buries the most moving and profound passages in the middle of some chapter that’s (seemingly) about something else.I won’t bother with a plot summary.
One of the main effects of war, after all, is that people are discouraged from being characters.Right in the middle of a paragraph, the narrator brings up the very thing you’re thinking about its characters (or non-characters), the lack of dramatic incident and cause and effect!
One of the main effects of war is that people are discouraged from being characters.
Bulgarian review below/Ревюто на български е по-долу ‘The death of one man is a tragedy, the death of millions is a statistic.’I heard this expression for the first time from a high school history teacher. We called him the Thug because he looked like a thug. I thought he had made the aforementioned conclusion himself as a historian and I was impressed. Years later I found out I had been very much confused and those were Stalin’s words, for he was more familiar with that kind of stuff… I’m temp
They seeped.’Billy Pilgrim is a pilgrim in time – he continues his pilgrimage to those years where his ill-starred consciousness had frozen like the three ladybugs within the amber of his paperweight… I don’t know if Billy Pilgrim is mentally ill.
When she watched reports on the Iraq War years ago, she cried inconsolably, because she thought WWIII was coming.
Когато преди години гледала по телевизията за войната в Ирак, плакала неудържимо, защото си мислела, че идва Трета световна война.
Indeed, this book is an anti-war novel, which is asserted (in part) through its random and confusing organisation.
It appears pointless to the reader, again alluding to the meaning of war.
Through this he uses Billy Pilgrim’s life as a metaphor for what war for the effects of war on the human state.So it goes.Vonnegut himself is a character within the narrative as the life of Billy Pilgrim is, in part, an autobiographical statement.
In fact he kind of satirizes that kind of thing in this book.) His aliens are much more fascinating than that.The Tralfamdorians aren't much interested in Jesus Christ's message of universal love.
One million deaths is a statistic.")To Billy--like Vonnegut, a witness to the slaughter at Dresden--they provide an escape.
Vonnegut is not satisfied to sum up Edgar’s death with the phrase, "and so it goes." I love this book because Vonnegut conjures up this fascinating alien race with a view of life that provides an opportunity for escape, but then punctures the illusion by showing that it is as facile as it is attractive.
Contains spoilersSlaughterhouse-Five is about a man called Billy Pilgrim who time-travels frequently.
But I do like time-travel stories.
Billy is nothing like Henry from The Time Traveler's Wife.
For a start, not even a second seems to pass in "real" time while he is travelling - no one ever notices.
The time-travelling predates the abduction-by-aliens, but the aliens themselves see the past, present and future simultaneously, and teach Billy their philosophy of not really caring about anything, since nothing can be changed etc.
کتاب بی نظیر بود. لحن طنز برای توصیف کشتارهای وحشتناک، ترکیب داستان جنگ با داستان علمی تخیلی و فانتزی، و وقایع و شخصیت های زیاد. همه و همه کتاب رو تبدیل به یه اثر لذت بخش کرده بودن.
I remember reading the book thirty years ago and thinking it rather comic.
There is a section in which Billy Pilgrim, due to his capture by extraterrestrials—the Tralfamadorians—for whom time is constant, not linear, watches a war film in reverse.American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses took off backwards from an airfield in England.
Over France, a few German planes flew at them backward, sucked bullets and shell fragments from some of the planes and crewmen.
Over France, though, German fighters came up again, and made everything and everybody as good as newThis germ of an idea, I suspect, was later expanded by Martin Amis in his Holocaust novel, Time's Arrow.
Slaughter-House Five, god knows how many syllables (depending on stress-points of your tongue), once sprinkled from the nozzle of mouth, hangs again in the air like a vagabond wrapper not finding a parapet to land.
So it goes.You don’t know the Trafalmadorian world that the duo glorifies in full splendor and there isn’t much necessity to.
If you insist (which all Earthlings do), it is this: people like you and me go there to live a life that cannot be envisaged in the world incubating us – Trafalmadorians let you live with arms and without arms (you don’t get it?
And because there is no cause and effect, there is no issue of free will.
In Slaughterhouse 5, the alien race of Tralfamadorians are not just god-like in their ability to transit the Universe, they are collectively God in their power over time and existence itself.
The book is a subtle and very clever theology that has fundamental implications for morality and ethics.Billy Pilgrim is the recipient of important revelations from the divine Tralfamadorians.
The first revelation is that although death is a real certainty, it doesn't matter because one can revisit moments in one's life ad infinitum; resurrection is part of existence.
One of the main effects of war, after all, is that people are discouraged from being characters."Slaughterhouse-Five is not only Vonnegut's most powerful book, it is also as important as any written since 1945.
Slaughterhouse-Five boasts the same imagination, humanity, and gleeful appreciation of the absurd found in Vonnegut's other works, but the book's basis in rock-hard, tragic fact gives it a unique poignancy - and humor.My Review: The Doubleday UK meme, a book a day for July 2014, is the goad I'm using to get through my snit-based unwritten reviews.
This novel has a pretty basic and consistent structure: a few paragraphs of humorous (I think) writing that has the presumed purpose of loosening you up before you get to the sucker-punch paragraph that contains something disturbing/death-related followed by "so it goes." And if the "so it goes" wasn't there to remind you that this is the part where death happens, Vonnegut hammers the point home by relaying it an inhumanly cool, dry, and nonchalant manner.
Interestingly enough, Vonnegut may have been aware of this stylistic shortcoming: speaking of Billy's favorite obscure sci-fi author, he writes that "Trout's prose is frightful.
A disturbingly comedic (or comically disturbing?) satire of the inevitability of war, the age old fate vs. free will argument, and the gross desensitization of death, Slaughterhouse-Five analyzes the effects of the Bombing of Dresden on World War II veteran Billy Pilgrim. Told in a nonlinear narrative that is common for Vonnegut, this novel employs the rare literary device I like to call “Twilight Zone–ish extraterrestrialism,” which serves to highlight both the absurdity of free will as well as Pilgrim’s sense of temporal confusion resulting from his experiences with war. So it goes.
WHAT A STRANGE BOOK. I definitely didn't love it, but there were certain parts that I adored. The Tralfamadorians have a really interesting view of life and Earth (the 4th dimension, bro... WHOA) and I really liked the parts that involved them.
And that is what Kurt Vonnegut wishes to tell his reader, in a calm, disinterested and emotionless voice in Slaughterhouse-Five.He informs us, in a matter-of-fact tone, that we don't know the first thing about a war and proceeds to explain to us what it really is, by fashioning a narrative as abstruse, disjointed and meaningless as war itself.I must make a confession despite how morbid this may sound.
Which is why I agree with Tan Twan Eng's views on World War II -"Moments in time when the world is changing bring out the best and the worst in people."But Vonnegut neither eulogizes war nor seeks to make our hearts bleed for the unimaginable loss and suffering it brings.
