https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23156040-those-who-leave-and-those-who-stay
When I finished this book last night — on the edge of my seat, by the way, because there was yet another dramatic ending — I was so unsteady that I had to rest a moment, pondering the fates of the women.I refuse to spoil anything for readers who have not yet read these wonderful novels, but I will say that in Book Three, the friendship of Elena and Lila is repeatedly tested.
(Or some kind of dystopia/apocalypse, but you get my drift.) I also think these novels are extraordinary for the choices the women make as a way to try and escape poverty: Elena hopes that schooling and moving away will better her life, but Lila is forced to leave school and instead tries marriage, which didn't work out as well as planned.
I wondered this because it struck me that when Lila disappears from the pages so too does the electric charge Ferrante’s writing has.
Ferrante writes well about Elena’s initiation into university life, the Milan literati, Italian political unrest, about marriage, child rearing, and infidelity but not markedly better than lots of other writers.
So I couldn’t help wondering if Lila, Ferrante’s muse, is a real person.
The same is true in this book of Pisa and Florence where Elena finds herself.
Were her books written by a man it’d certainly be a phenomenal achievement because Ferrante, whoever she is, will probably go down in history as one of the very best exponents of unravelling the inner lives of women.
Un secolo di psicoanalisi ci ha mostrato che la gran parte degli istituti umani fondamentali - dalla famiglia alla religione, non esclusa tra l'altro l'arte del racconto - sono tentativi di mettere Eros al lavoro dentro una normativa, di ridurre il suo squilibrio a un equilibrio.
Ed è un racconto ricco di colpi di scena come non è mai stato prima nell’opera di questa misteriosa scrittrice, che utilizza a piene mani gli strumenti del romanzo più classico, tutti quelli che servono alla storia e ai personaggi, e le pagine finali dei miei libri tendono a conclusioni che, dall'interno delle stesse parole che acquietano, lanciano segnali di inquietudine.Al centro Saverio Costanzo, regista perfetto per l’impresa di portare sul piccolo schermo la tetralogia ferrantiana.… forse, di fronte all’abbandono, siamo tutti uguali…
But obviously it was great.---Ok, now that I've had time to come up with some thoughts--though, no promises that they will be coherent--I can attempt to write a review of this one.
Like the 2 preceding novels in the Neapolitan novels series by the fabulous Elena Ferrante, this one is quite hard to rate on its own.
The stories are so dependent on one another, and Ferrante so excellently doles out information that your reading of 1 book in the series seriously affects your perceptions/thoughts/feelings about the previous ones.
This novel is no exception.We learn so much more about adult Lila & Elena.
Can I just say, dang, Ferrante comes up with good titles.
Lila goes to work in terrible conditions in a sausage factory; Elena marries a Nice Boy from a slightly higher social class than her own and has a child; the two intersect, memorably, only a few times over the course of their twenties and thirties.
But Nino keeps dipping in and out of their lives, whether he's showing up at Elena's book reading, appearing offscreen as the baby daddy of a fellow activist, or becoming friends with Elena's husband through work.
By the end, (view spoiler)[Nino is propelling the whole plot - because against all odds, he's decided to break up his marriage to be with Elena and they are madly in love with each other.
But the main reason I waited.....I dread seeing the end of this absolutely amazing story!Again we are drawn into the lives of Elena and Lila.
I don't want to give anything away and really, I can't quite put my finger on why these books are so captivating, so mesmerizing.
I can't wait to get to book four, the final book to see what happens, but I'm sad it is the last book.This is the first series of books I have ever finished.
Does it take away from my reading these books?
Opening against the backdrop of the 1968 student uprisings in Paris, and carrying into the 1970s Vietnam War protest movement, the clashes in Italy between the communists and neo-fascists, Baader-Meinhof and the rise of the Red Brigade, feminism and the sexual revolution, Those Who Leave and Those Who Stay shows the social awakening of a nation through the intelligent but naïve eyes of Elena.“The Personal is Political,” a phrase coined by feminist Carol Hanisch in 1970, is brought to narrative life by Ferrante’s women.
[From Le nouveau nom] I wrote and rewrote my review of Elena Ferrante's third volume, but each version I produced seemed stupider than the last; empty words, tired formulas, a well-crafted and earnest nullity of expression. In the end, although I had promised myself I would not do so, I emailed the draft to my friend and asked for her advice. An hour later, she skyped me back."So what do you expect me to do?" she asked. She seemed to be in a particularly bad mood. "You're the reviewer. You unde
I wrote and rewrote my review of Elena Ferrante's third volume, but each version I produced seemed stupider than the last; empty words, tired formulas, a well-crafted and earnest nullity of expression.
I haven't written a review in years.""I just wondered if you could look at it," I said.
"Like you used to.""Yes," she said scornfully.
"Well, you can start by taking out the Proust.""Have you even--" I began, but she cut me off.
"She's nothing like Proust," she said.
It looks like she's doing the Proust thing with memory and time and art, but it's quite different.
She said she never read any more."Then what--" I began again.
Yet while Pasquale is emoting self-righteously—because Lila's declining health prevents her from unionizing a local sausage factory—in his lap sits the radiantly bourgeois Nadia, whom Nino threw over for Lila in Volume 2.
Lina is positively unhinged by motherhood and warns Lenù of what is to come.
Lenù, who has left Naples, to live in Florence with her academic husband, Pietro, can't understand how the lives of her family and friends in the old neighborhood have changed.
Lenù is isolated in Florence and Lina in Naples.
I had to start again to become, but for myself, as an adult, outside of her."I finished this third book in Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan series three weeks ago.
There is no way I will ever forget Elena and Lila and their complicated and baffling friendship.
Honestly, I cannot say that I identify with either Elena or Lila.
In the earlier books in this series I would have to admit that any sympathy I doled out would have been directed towards Elena.
I am certain that choices made will reverberate straight through the fourth book, and that the next chapter of these women’s lives will be as tortuous and absorbing as the last.
From the beginning, the reading of Ferrante has been a visceral experience.
Yet, reading her standalone novels first did not prepare for me for what a hyperrealistic fever dream these Neapolitan Novels have been.
Unlike hyperrealistic works of visual art where what is underneath proves that the picture is not real, what is underneath here seems all too real.
Upon finishing this installment I even felt guilty, as if I were complicit in the character's decisions.The narrator's scholarly work on male authors who write from a female viewpoint (e.g, Flaubert/Bovary) fits the developing character, but is Ferrante (who at one time was speculated to be male) having a bit of fun here?
Elena is married, living in Florence with a husband she fights with often.They have two daughters.....making her life even more complicated.
Will she leave....or will she stay?
Is being happy with yourself dependent on if you stay OR leave?
She spends a great amount of time evaluating her every move, her every thought, questions her value...measures herself against Lila....and others.
So, in many ways, book three is more Elena's story than the first two previous books were.
In book Three, we see more social awakening -[1969-1970]- there's the Vietnam war, the rise of feminism, and sexual upheavals....all beginning in a sausage factory.
Crazy choices?
Series described as, inter alia, Passionate, Vicious, Intimate, Sweeping, Challenging, Flummoxing, Ferocious, High Stakes, Subversive and Blisteringly Good on Bad Sex If you've not started reading them, WHY NOT? Neapolitan actress Valeria Golino [Hot, Hot, Hot]The 3d of the "Neapolitan Novels" tetralogy by Italian novelist Elena Ferrante (a pseudonym). Ms. Ferrante says she considers the four volumes to constitute one novel. Instead of giving an overall description of the books again, I'll just
Instead of giving an overall description of the books again, I'll just include a link to My Review of #2: The Story of a New Name in case you'd like to read it.This one, Those Who Leave and Those Who Stay has been, by far, the most turbulent, carrying the two female friends, Elena and Lila, from their mid-20s into their early 30s.
Δεν ξέρω αν θυμάστε που σας έγραφα στην κριτική του 2ου βιβλίου ότι δε μπορώ να βγάλω άκρη με αυτές τις δύο τύπισσες και δε μπορώ να καταλάβω προς τι όλος αυτός ο ντόρος για τις περιπέτειες τους.
Σέβομαι όλα τα όμορφα λόγια που έχετε γράψει οι περισσότεροι από σας για την συγκεκριμένη τετραλογία αλλά ειλικρινά εγω εξακολουθώ να μη μπορώ να βρω κάτι θετικό που να με βάλει στην ιστορία και μάλιστα με εχουν εκνευρίσει τόσο πολύ αυτές οι δύο τύπισσες που λυπάμαι που δεν είναι δικό μου το βιβλίο αλλά δανεισμένο για να μπορώ να το σκίσω μία μία σελίδα μην πω να τα κανω παρανάλωμα του πυρός.
Reading Elena Ferrante's trilogy has been a marathon of never ending awe. I'm still electrified from reading the last volume. Lila and lena will stay with me for a very very long time. Pleease read "My Brilliant Friend" trilogy and keep in mind that it gets better and better and better and better as you turn each page.
Nestes dias de leitura e em conversas a propósito da mesma, tenho tido alguma dificuldade em explicar o tema dos livros.
É que, se para o primeiro volume é aceitável dizer que é a história da amizade entre duas raparigas e da vida no bairro onde vivem, nos seguintes a narrativa vai ganhar densidade a nível pessoal das personagens, assim como aprofundar temas com raízes bem reais e mostrar uma realidade sócio-cultural numa época de intensas mudanças políticas que não se confinaram a Nápoles.O resto pode-se dizer que é comezinho, banal!
Political turmoil rages through the Italian landscape when Elena finally gets married to her professor, Pietro Airota, and Lila has settled down living with Enzo.
Elena's book has just been published and she is dying to share the news with Lila.
Yes, she thought, you have to strike fear into those who wish to strike fear into you, there is no other way, blow for blow, what you take from me I take back, what you do to me I do to you."In the previous book I wanted to shake Lila.
In this book I wanted to shake Elena twice as hard!
The conflict between loving your family and wanting to be there for them and the mind-numbness of the constant chores.
Elena is disappointed to discover how little her husband cares for her opinion, actually, he never seeks her opinion for anything intellectual or work related.
The Italian society is undergoing changes and there's a lot of violence, even in Florence where Elena and her family live.Lila meanwhile has moved back to the old neighbourhood.
Elena still seeks Lila's approval and wonders frequently what would Lila think, do.
He's also a professor and has work relationships with Piedro, Elena's husband.This volume also ends on a cliffhanger.
Oh, Elena!
Como conheces tão bem o ser humano!
Li em nove dias as cerca de novecentas e cinquenta páginas dos três primeiros livros das Crónicas Napolitanas.
E, agora, lamento-me por não conseguir ler em inglês, ou italiano, para ir desencantar, em qualquer lado, o volume final das vidas de Lila e Lenù...Estes três livros merecem a melhor review que eu poderia ser capaz de fazer, no entanto, sinto-me sem as palavras que lhes façam justiça.
Talvez no final consiga...Por agora, deixo-lhe um Sol (representando por cinco estrelas); um lugar nos meus favoritos; e Elena Ferrante na lista dos meus autores preferidos.
There’s a dark ardour present in her writing, and a thrilling physicality to her metaphors, boldly translated by Ann Goldstein.
This is high-stakes, subversive literature."Catherine Taylor for The TelegraphA theatre of introspection.
A thrilling physicality.
High-stakes literature.This comes pretty close to summing up the genius of Elena Ferrante and the high-wire act that are the Neapolitan Novels.
It feels like the whole world is humming.
I finish each volume with a heightened sense of living, with the sense that I have been privy to the inner workings of a singular mind and body, of an entire culture, of a political genesis, of the city of Naples all at once.
I am barreling through Ferrante books and loving them.
In book 3, Elena and Lila are now in their 20s and 30s and still living parallel and occasionally intersecting lives with mariage, lovers, kids, and lots of self-questioning.
The secondary and tertiary characters lack some depth because of the nearly obsessive focus on the two protagonists.
I do appreciate the first person narration by Elena (the character) and how she is able to weave Lila's story around hers.
This book was pretty readable and I'm curious to find out what happens to the characters after having read the two previous books in this series but there are literally no likeable characters at all. They're all such insufferable self obsessed arseholes who are hideous to each other and completely self involved. Really weird. I guess I'll read the last one cause this one certainly ended on a cliffhanger.
Βαθμολογία: ★★★★Μου άρεσε περισσότερο από «Το νέο όνομα». Η τετραλογία της Νάπολης έχει αρκετά ελαττώματα, τα οποία τώρα φαίνονται καθαρότερα από ποτέ. Οι χαρακτήρες της Έλενας και της Λίλας δεν είναι ρεαλιστικοί. Είναι υπερβολικά αυτοκαταστροφικές και στην πραγματική ζωή πιστεύω ότι θα είχαν προ πολλού χάσει επαφή. Ωστόσο, η γραφή της Ferrante παραμένει μεθυστική και καθηλωτική, δεν σε αφήνει να την παρατήσεις. Ελπίζω το τέταρτο και τελευταίο μέρος να κλείνει όμορφα την ιστορία.
She has two children over the course of the novel and falls out of intellectual life and relevance after the publication of her first book, struggling with her motherly responsibilities and her growing understanding that her husband clearly wants a much more traditional marriage than he lets on.
I think it needs something more- “maddening” perhaps, or probably “inevitable”… is it’s not like your brain just stops working the way it always has just because you don’t see the people you used to anymore.
That Self still needs to be there to let you know why you put in all the work those relationships mean.And of course, here… it’s always going to be tied up in Lila.
Και δεν μου το βγάζετε από το μυαλό ότι μπορεί να είναι μυθιστόρημα αλλα η Φερράντε έχει ζήσει πολύ έντονα την ζωή της και αυτά τα βιβλία δεν θέλουν να αποδώσουν μονο έναν ολόκληρο κόσμο αλλα να προσφέρουν ίσως γαλήνη στην ίδια, μια βαθύτερη κατανόηση των πραγμάτων που την περιέβαλλαν/ περιβάλλουν.Ενώ η Λίλα ενηλικιώθηκε απότομα χαρη στις τολμηρές της αποφάσεις και το ανήσυχο μυαλό της (σαν ένας βοσκός που παλεύει με τα γυμνά του χέρια τα ζωντανά που θα βρεθούν στον δρόμο του, όπως μας την περιγράφει η Έλενα) στο προηγούμενο βιβλίο, η Έλενα θα βιώσει την συντριβή και θα αποκαλύψει πράγματα για τον εαυτό της που τα έκρυβε πεισματικά από όλους νιώθωντας ότι έχτιζε σιγα σιγα μια καλή ζωή, συγκροτημένη.
في الجزء الثالث من "رباعية نابولي" وهي المرحلة التي تبدأ فيها الحياة في الكشف عن برقعها المزيف فتخسف في أحلام كانت بالأمس آمال منشودة ... إننا في المرحلة العمرية القاسية والتي تسمى بمرحلة منتصف العمر مرحلة ما بين الشباب واللاشباب ... تواصل فيها الكاتبة سرد الحبكات القصصية الماهرة دون أي تنميق لغوي كما قلنا سابقاً وتستمر قصص إيلينا وليلا بتواتر ضمن حقبة الستينيات والسبعينيات بكم هائل من المكائد والأقدار والأحداث الملية ..لا عجب أن تكون الرباعية قد أثرت لهذا الحد فهي مكتوبة بلغة عفوية تستطيع جذب الآخر رغماً عنه
I give up. Elena Ferrante and I are not simpatico. I have this novel- I'm skimming- I'm dreading the wordiness, the limbo, the chatter of the novel. They are simply grim books, filled with agony after agony in detail. Life is tough enough but to have to expose myself to the microscopic examination of lives which never seem joyful, the minutiae of the mundane, the scrutiny of unfulfilled lives- I give up. Those who love these books- go for them. We all have choices. These aren't mine. Bye, Elena.
In this book Lenù grows up, and suddenly Ferrante's meandering internal monologues swing into orbit around the twin poles of SEX and POLITICS.
In fact the disparity between her reputation and her behaviour is so glaring that Ferrante is almost playing it for comic effect, no less so because Elena's feelings on the status of women are deeply felt, and grounded in a lived experience that we, as readers, have been following for nearly a thousand pages.
i somehow managed to totally miss the fact that there will be a 4th book in this series....
i would say that someone is going to have an excellent thesis on feminism in the 'my brilliant friend' series.
having ferrante bring this examination of female friendship to readers is a huge and necessary treat for the literary canon.in a review, writer Mona Simpson said this of the series: 
so i will now wait for book #4.
as with the previous books in this series, we are left with a cliffhanger.
Their evolution and their friendship, still complex, is still compelling.While reading this, I had some thoughts:1) Amid all the fighting and drama (of which there is a never-ending supply), NO ONE seems to be having good sex!2) Lila is so unlikeable, about 99.9% of the time.
I have a hard time understanding why Lenu hangs onto her.
4) The description of utter exhaustion and despair, of losing one's self after Lenu's daughter is born, was so realistic.5) The ending - my heart is cleaved in two, both elated and apprehensive, for what lies ahead.
