https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16948.Children_of_God
"Everything we thought we understood—that was what we were most wrong about."This novel is the stunning sequel to The Sparrow, a book that left me breathless and yearning for more after the last page.
It’s about the stories we tell ourselves, and the ways we justify our decisions, to bring ourselves to some kind of peace.
The question as to whether the ends justify the means will recur in the book and in your own thoughts.
Ultimately, it causes one to understand that we are all part of this world (or this universe) and that each serves a purpose, each life has meaning, all are dependent on one another in some way, shape or form.
I am so glad I only waited a month between reading parts one and two of this book.
It really is just one book split into two parts and I could not leave Emilio for too long suffering the way he was at the end of part one.Emilio Sandoz is one of those book characters who jumps off the page and out of the book.
I loved all of the Jesuit priests with their sardonic humour and their less than perfect attitudes always disguising their real love of humanity and their work.
I enjoyed the space travel with all its boredom for the travellers and its occasional real dangers.
So much time was spent going over the specifics of their civil war; for some reason Russell decided to place a conversation between Danny Iron Horse and a Runao before they actually arrived on Rakhat so that she could squeeze in an explanation of 20 years' worth of change that had occurred on Rakhat.
This sequel neuters that brutality, and while it's nice seeing Emilio having some happy moments, The Sparrow made sense as it was - it told a story in a way that it needed to be told.
In many ways, this novel rivals the scope of The Sparrow in both worldbuilding and theme.
Many characters from either alien species and humans had their time as PoVs. Emilio is still a major character, but not necessarily the Main Character.
Is this a novel about our own world?
The alien society is writ large for us, but better than that, it's delightfully complex.
In fact, between the two novels, it might be one of the most heart-wrenching alien tales I've read.
;) Little about faith, hate, understanding, and intelligent discourse touches that tale.
I had to re-read the section two or three times to make sure I understood this is where the story ended for the alien man that was mainly responsible for Emilio's repeated rape.
(hide spoiler)] Second, because the scope of the story covered decades, not just years, time was treated in a very disjointed fashion, moving very slowly in the beginning, and then jumping through the years at the end.
I got a little of the sense of, "let's just wrap this up now, shall we?" from the narrative.Barring those two complaints, it is a beautifully written book, with multidimensional characters.
As the story progresses the author creates a nearly intractable problem of species genocide that she resolves near the end in a manner that completely surprised me, but which makes a lot of sense once one considers the backgrounds of the human characters she sends forth on this second mission to the discovered planet.Two quick thoughts for any readers out there who have not yet had the pleasure of reading either of these wonderful books...I consider theese to be two parts of one long story, even though it appears that the author didn't plan a sequel when she write The Sparrow.
You know Alien ends with Ripley getting into the shuttle with Jones, fighting off the alien one last time, and consigning herself and Jones to a lonely trip home in stasis? And then in the sequel, she’s essentially drafted into accompanying another team back to the planet where they found the Alien eggs, and almost everyone dies again? No? Well, sorry for spoiling Alien and Aliens.Anyway, Children of God is kind of like that. At the end of  The Sparrow , Emilio Santos arrives home, sole survivor
It would be blatantly inaccurate to say that MDR humanizes the Jana'ata, but she definitely provides us with the opportunity to empathize with their worldview.Thanks to these choices, Children of God is a good story regardless of how it fulfils the role of sequel.
Again, MDR doesn’t necessarily spend too much time on this point, but issues of cultural relativism and ethnocentrism are implicit in the relationship between humans, Jana'ata, and Runa.
We learn more about the Runa and Jana'ata in this book; their cultures are not as confusing or as alien any more.
This book picks up right where The Sparrow left off.
In my opinion neither of these books are easy reads, by that I mean something I could whiz through.
I only wish I had read this shortly after The Sparrow although the author does remind you of what happened previously.
The question: "Is there a moral to this story?"Her answer: "Don't be so damned quick to judge!
If you haven't had the pleasure of reading these books, I highly recommend them.
Would be great book club reads.
The Sparrow is essential to have read.
Without that background story, Children of God would be confusing at times.
This was a seamless continuation of The Sparrow and really can be considered one book.
The story picks up where The Sparrow left off.
This story is a bit confusing in the aspect of time-line.
Does the previous section happen before, during or after the story section we're now reading?
This story isn't as perfect as The Sparrow.
Children of God has a very thought provoking story and is a perfect continuation of The Sparrow.
I strongly recommend that readers read Sparrow first as Children of God is a continuation of that story and will make little sense without the background provided in the Sparrow.The Sparrow tells the story of Earth's first contact with alien races and, with a sociologist's eye, the impact that a meeting between two entirely different cultures have upon each other.
Children of God tells the story of Emilio Sandoz' second trip to Rahkat and focuses more on the impact that the first visit had on that planet's civilization in the years since he first departed the planet.This was a good book but imho it was not as good as the Sparrow.
As we continue the journey to discovery, we are marred, enlightened, ennobled, and most of all touched by the things that make a life human.
It makes you question, to wonder, to begin to note that it is not only humans who might be among us and if they are, then why could it not be possible for them to be exactly like us and yet so different too?
If you are in need of a book that will have you questioning and perhaps eventually even liking what we are a a people, than this book might head you down a direction that is both philosophical and deeply moving.
Just as she did in the first book, Russell takes on the big questions of spirituality, morality, the challenge to faith posed by an apparently capricious God, against a backdrop of extreme psychological upheaval (in Emilio's case) and the cataclysmic social and political changes triggered by the earlier mission to Rakhat.She does a better job than I had anticipated, but the inherent predictability of certain story arcs dooms the sequel to be less exciting than the original.
How much of what happens to us is God’s doing, how much has purpose, how much is our failure to listen closely enough and understand God’s voice when he is speaking to us?There is a moment toward the end of the book when one of the priests makes an observance that I believe sums up what we are meant to take away from this story:“There’s a passage in Deuteronomy--God tells Moses, ‘No one can see My face, but I will protect you with My hand until I have passed by you, and then I will remove My hand and you will see My back.’ Remember that?Emilio nodded, listening.“Well, I always thought that was a physical metaphor,” John said, “but, you know--I wonder now if it isn’t really about time?
It's been a few days since I finished reading this book, which is unusual for me since normally I like to write my reviews immediately upon finishing.
That sounds more harsh than I mean it to, but remember I also didn't care too much about The Sparrow (except that it actually made me fairly angry); this book made me less angry, but there were still annoyances.What made The Sparrow so good, the reason that people return to time after time when they say they loved it, is that there is so much emotion behind the story.
I'm not sure I like the appellations "good or bad" for this book and its predecessor.
There are ideas and thoughts that are (at least peripherially) looked at from an attempted Christian perspective.
The main character is a Roman Catholic and his life is what it is due to his experiences in The Sparrow.
I won't say Christians will find anything here that they haven't considered before, but they will find it discussed in a different vehicle.I'm not sure it's correct to say I "liked"it, but I will say it's worthwhile.
The amazing sequel to The Sparrow, reviewed earlier (the one I have affectionately referred to as Jesuits in Space.) I won't give away how The Sparrow ended, but suffice it to say that I couldn't imagine a sequel being possible to write or bearable to read. Something convinced me to pick up Children of God, though, and it was just as intellectually fascinating, just as emotionally wrenching, just as exciting. A stay-up-all-night-reading book.
I am so glad that Mary Doria Russell continued with the story from The Sparrow.
I don’t think this book is as well crafted as The Sparrow but I can’t conceive of reading The Sparrow without finding how this story continues and what happens with the characters and their descendents.
I now think of these two as one book.As a vegan both these two Mary Doria Russell books gave me much “food for thought” and I think that was even more so with Children of God than it was with The Sparrow.If I wasn’t reading this as a continuation of The Sparrow it would have probably received only 3 and maybe only 2 stars from me.
Children of God is an answer to a prayer afterThe Sparrow. Both books are beautiful but neither one can be read as stand alone books. The Sparrow must be read first followed as closely as possible by Children of God. Mary Doria Russell creates a marvellous new universe. These books could be categorized as either science fiction or fantasy but it's really irrelevant. What mattered to me was the awe that I felt after finishing them.
4.0 to 4.5 stars.
Not quite as emotionally powerful (I should say devastating) as the Sparrow, the first book in the series which I highly recommend to everyone, this is an excellent sequel that brings the epic story of Emilo Sandoz to a very satisfying conclusion.
While the basic plot can be described as a "first ontact" with an alien race, both books are really about how a person can keep faith in God when confronted with horrific events.
It is the age old question "How could a loving God allow such horrible things to happen to good people." Highly recommended!!!Nominee: Hugo Award Best NovelNominee: British Science Fiction Award Nominee: Locus Award Best SF Novel (7th)
Audiobook performed by Anna FieldsIn the sequel to Russell’s stellar  The Sparrow , Father Emilio Sandoz has made significant progress in recovering from his injuries suffered on the first mission to the planet Rakhat. His body may be healed but his soul is still in turmoil, and the last thing he wants is to return to the place where all other members of the mission met their deaths. But then ….Once again Russell gives us a morality play in a science fiction setting. I marvel at how richly imagi
Even more than the first book, Russell plays with time and location, moving back and forth between Earth and Rakhat, between the “present” and the future.
However … there is one segment where she takes the characters into the future to have one of the Jana’ata explain what had happened when the humans were still traveling.
I think that was because too much time was spent on the civil war and various Runa and Jana’ata characters, and less time was spent with Sandoz and Mendes.
THAT was the story I really wanted to know about and I felt a little disappointed in how little of the novel involved them.
It begins well enough but loses steam about halfway through.I liked the second revealing look at the events which occurred at the end of The Sparrow, even though the author cheats: it turns out that something you thought happened in the first book didn't really happen.
The crew of this second Jesuit mission is even more ridiculous than the first one, and the alien society seems terribly fragile, such that a few bumbling humans can cause a planet-wide revolution.
The intensity faded pretty rapidly once the second mission arrived on Rakhat.
This sequel to the wonderful 'The Sparrow' was not only a letdown, but obliterated the moral and spiritual themes of Russell's earlier novel.
Whereas at the end of 'The Sparrow', you are left with the raw and often violent repercussions of first contact with new civilisations, 'Children of God' feels like an argument in favour of the Monroe Doctrine.
I found the Sparrow posed a lot of questions around issues of belief and spirituality and Children of God, in trying to answer them, leaves the reader with a sense of moral bankruptcy.The two stars are a nod to 'the Sparrow' and to Emilio Sandoz who is a great character.
The story had a satisfying ending in The Sparrow, but the book was so good, I was sure hoping for more.
In so many places in CoG I felt I was reading fluff.Now that I've gotten all the bashing off my chest, here's how I feel in the end.
The Sparrow was such an extraordinary book that I have to give the author the benefit of the doubt and concede that maybe and just, maybe I might have missed something and might have to read this one again to fully appreciate it.
You may not like either book, but you will thank me for this.Because this is a true sequel, it dovetails completely with The Sparrow.
Like the first novel, the book is split into different timelines and stories, but instead of being a clear before and after, it is all part of the “after”.
This isn’t gratuitous: they make the characters stronger and the novel depends on the depths of these emotions in order to create the story as we are meant to experience it.As usual, I have forestalled looking at anyone else’s review before composing this, but I have read that the author thinks that many people like this novel better than the first.
On the other hand, The Sparrow will still knock your socks off after reading Children of God. If you just can't stand spoilers, and have to read things in order, I recommend taking a long break between The Sparrow and Children of God, so that all the characters feel like old friends you forgot you'd lost.)Every time I pick it up again, I walk around saying, "I forgot how GOOD this book is!" to anyone who doesn't run away fast enough.
I read the majority of it, but the events that transpire in the book had me so in my feelings that I literally just don't want to even finish it.
I think maybe Russell made the love story between Emilio and Gina TOO good because it contained a line I found so beautiful I had to snap a picture and share with a friend: "She held in the tension just before movement, about to walk back toward the house.
But to drag Emilio through more suffering...nah, man.
I'll come back to this book later, maybe.
Sofia is the most problematic - in The Sparrow, she was a semi-devout Jew, at least devout enough to travel to Israel for a mikveh and she mentions at least once "the ashes of the six million." And she was a survivor of the "Second Kurdish War." In Children of God, she basically authors genocide.
Despite Sofia's strong sympathy with the Runao, one would think that a Jewish character who had survived a war wouldn't, let's see now, behave exactly like Hitler.
Despite their professed politically correct sensitivity that all on Earth will have reached by the 2016, the characters from the Sparrow and Children of God have no respect for the Rakhati way of doing business (ie Jana'ata eating the Runao.
Even so, what a mess we made of everything.” Each character the protagonist of his or her own story.
Each point of view character does what seems sensible and right by her or his standards.
“Maybe poetry is the only way we can get near the truth of God. And when the metaphor fails, we think it’s God who failed us.” Again, her delving into Roman Catholic politics may mystify or offend, but it deepens the stakes for those characters attached to or in conflict with Rome.
Action story readers beware.
In the first book, I was addicted to both the characters and the story.
With this book I was still addicted to the characters, and I did enjoy the story, but I wasn’t as thoroughly caught up in it.
In the first book, the mystery of how we got from point A (the earlier time period) to point B (the later time period) was a large part of what held my interest.
I think there were arguably more complex characters in this book, and I liked that.
I decided to round up, based on my enjoyment level as I read it.
I am not writing a separate review for either The Sparrow or Children of God because I feel that the two books are so bound to one another that I can only review them as a pair.
So this review addresses the two as if they were merely Part I and Part II of the same work.This unique work of science fiction takes as its premise a Jesuit mission to space--at first an outrageous assumption, but this should not prevent you from reading these books because these books are most importantly an investigation into the assumptions we make about who we are and into how far we may be willing to go to pursue our assumptions to their conclusions.The protagonist is taken through a remarkable series of personal transitions that are heartwarming, heartbreaking, horrifying, emotionally shattering, and--for him--inconceivable.
