https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79550.The_Summer_Book
‘The forest was full of signs and portents, its own secret written language.’Tove Jansson, the world-renowned creator of the Moomintroll characters, succinctly harnesses the power and glory of a seaside summer season in the twenty-two elegant vignettes contained within The Summer Book.
Set upon a tiny island in the Gulf of Finland much like where Jansson’s own family spent their summers, Summer Book chronicles the interactions and adventures between a young girl, Sophia, and her grandmother as they embrace the world and all the facts of life that surround them.
This is the quietest great book I've ever read.Every once in a while I read a book that makes me jealous, that makes me wish I could write and do what the book did.
This girl Sophia and her grandmother do not do much, but spend lots of time together doing normal things on normal summer days that happen in no particular order, and I don't even think all the same year.And it's just wonderful.If you've ever read the Moomintroll books, this book has the same breezy disarming sense of humor.I bet Tove Jansson could have written this review in 12 words, and it would have been better.
To me, ‘last century’ still suggests Oscar Wilde, Thomas Hardy.) Amidst all the seascapes, moody self-portraits and Moomin sketches, I was fascinated by a video exhibit that showed a loop of grainy home-movie footage: Tove and her partner Tuulikki Pietilä on their island in the Pellinkis, laughing in the sun, wearing baggy knitted jumpers, and looking – as people always do in grainy home-movie footage – especially dead.In some ways death is the central theme of this book, but to say so gives entirely the wrong impression – it is light, charming, funny, enriching, very alive, not remotely morbid or depressing.
This brief novel tells the story of Sophia, a six-year-old girl awakening to existence, and Sophia’s grandmother, nearing the end of hers, as they spend the summer on a tiny unspoiled island in the Gulf of Finland.
The Summer Book is translated from the Swedish by Thomas Teal.My Review: I am a person who likes quiet.
Perhaps in compensation, I love spy stories and space-war epics and historical novels with battles, explosions, near misses with the main character dangling from rooftops...the very essence of un-quiet.The Summer Book is, in contrast, the quietest reading imaginable.
I'd temporarily put away The Horn Island Logs of Walter Inglis Anderson to get to other books and then this one arrived from the library.
The character of Grandmother and the setting immediately called to mind Anderson and the tiny island of his nonfictional logs.
Both Anderson and Grandmother live at times on an island where they are tolerant, though very wary, of outsiders.
Grandmother, though always remaining true to her cranky self, understands, worries and mostly knows what to do to help Sophia.
Grandmother and Sophia know, naturally, his role as the middle-aged in relation to the very old and the very young.
One tiny island in the gulf of Finland comes to represent a complete world full of miracle and mystery, safety and danger as we are swept happily along through the adventures of a feisty, indomitable little girl and her refreshingly different grandmother.Read this perfect little book and better still, give it to everyone you know for Christmas.
4.5/5 Say this: say I hate everything that dies slow! Say I hate everything that won't let you help! There are many books I've read that, according to others, I should not have resonated with, the reason usually being that I am not old and/or have not experienced enough. However, years of intensive delving into fiction have honed my empathy to the point that a conjured "What if..." proves as potent as an actual happening, a heightened sense that, like any other, has equally powerful benefits and
"Sophia would prefer a lemonade," Grandmother said, and thought: We've got to teach her some manners.
In light of that, it is better to push forward without question, to build one's rules on the backs of one's own clambered heights and swum currents, broken bones and blooming flowers, anything for the guarantee that life will go on.
Silly, dirty, frightening, cruel, powerful, beautiful, delicate, funny, precious life; the grandmother, the father, the granddaughter, the flora, the fauna; the mourning of humans, the plight of a cut in twain angleworm, and all the islands of our days.
Sophia woke up and remembered they had come back to the island and that she had a bed to herself because her mother was dead.The father, while providing warmth, security, and support, is largely absent from the daily doings of Sophia and her grandmother.
In another similar instance, her grandmother responds by helping Sophia come to terms with her own worries about life and death, right and wrong by encouraging her to write her own book about angleworms and other “unfortunate creatures.” Because Sophia is only six and cannot spell every word correctly, her grandmother agrees to take dictation.
The island is so tiny that it took the author, Esther Freud (who wrote the book's introduction to the edition I read) 4-1/2 minutes to go around it.
However, in the story, it is obvious that the 6-y/o Sophia is Tove: she woke up realizing that she has no one to share her bed with as her mother has just died and the dialogue that she had with her grandmother, wanting to instead call her "mother." What I like about this book is its subtlety.
This is an episodic novel, twenty-two vignettes (a chapter each) of Sophia, Papa and Grandmother who summer on their own small island off Finland.
Told in the third-person, the perspective constantly shifts between young Sophia and her 85 year-old Grandmother.
My favorite moment was when Grandmother and Sophia are out in the dory when they get to Blustergull Rock.
Is Papa just a black smudge on the painting, an artist's slip; or is he the key?"My dear child," said Grandmother impatiently, "every human being has to make his own mistakes."On a personal note: (view spoiler)[ We notice often here in Goodreads how our reading life seems to have this cosmic connection or continuity, like having a reading year with three Aunt Lavinias.
A grandmother and child and nature, all three somewhat wild and uncontrollable, live along with their son/father, during the summer, on a barren island they all love.
Most of her time is spent alternately loving, hating and hiking with her grandmother who is passing through her own difficult phase of life as she feels her body slowing down.Meanwhile there is the island and the sea, the tidal changes, the storms, everything that nature itself changes.
The reader can sea the landscape in Jansson's words.Recommended for those who like nature writing and stories of simple living.
It's a very quiet, subdued book which plays itself out without a script, like many endless childhood summers.The novel takes place during the course of one such summer, on a remote island somewhere in the Gulf of Finland, where young Sophia spends her days along with an elderly grandmother and a busy father.
This is also why The Summer Book has such a strong sense of place, with the island's geographical features playing a prominent part - its slow pace allowing us to notice every rock, every bush.
And no one comes out the same of that encounter.Sophie, her father and grandmother used to spend their summer months on tiny island in the gulf of Finland.
Sophie, six year old imaginative child and her grandma establish somewhat an unholy alliance against girl’s father.
They seem to reverse their roles when Sophie claims that it’s not allowed going to ravine and grandmother willfully states that they’ll be back before father awakes.
The summer book is an unpretentious and totally devoid of importunate moralizing story, sparkling with humour like waters in the gulf.And when the summer had passed and house was prepared to winter I caught myself on looking around in searching of Snufkin going off on his wanderings.
Un piccolo libro pieno di nordica grazia.
It’s just a collection of small, everyday stories about Sophia, her grandmother and her father and the summer (or summers) they spend at their Finnish summerhouse.
I hope it is, I hope this is the sort of book that makes people feel at home.It also made me remember my own summers as a child, roaming the seaside and having tiny adventures that felt big and large and life-changing at the time.
It’s real because you can’t help but see something you recognize in it.
I was quite struck, for example, by the way Sophia wanted to use the term "Mama" when she was "Playing Venice".
Sophia's grandmother is not given to enthusiasm, but she works to her own rhythm and reminds me of badger in The Wind In The Willows: a bit grumpy but essentially kind and caring.
My guess is that he was always like that; always busy with his "work" - which he seems to be able to carry out anywhere - and that her grandmother has to be a proxy parent, in the many roles previously taken by Sophia's mother.
I was all set to love this book but found myself too impatient to read it at its own pace, to unpack its subtleties.
Too often I found myself zoning out or when I thought I was all set for a prolonged engaged reading session suddenly I found myself more interested in looking at my phone.
The episodic structure reminded me of Bruno Schulz's "The Streets of Crocodiles," with the crazy grandfather replaced by a sane grandmother, with everything throughout maybe a bit too sane for my tastes?
Maybe I'll come back to it some other time.
Morisson has never described nature in the way that Jansson talks about the swampy crevices of the island, Munro has never found the space for Jansson’s wit in her beautiful stories about living in peril, Calvino never made a character as intelligent as this grandmother, Laxness never written about the frustrations and whims of childhood with so much authenticity, Haruf has never been able to mix in joy with his melancholy, Trevor doesn’t have the reverence for the impossible power of children or the impressive power of grandparents.
Se si sta via più a lungo, la si affida a qualcuno che la bagni, e può essere un po’ complicato.Perfino le piante diventano una responsabilità, come tutto quello di cui si ha cura e che non è in grado di decidere da sé.”Una vita germoglia, un’altra appassisce.
Questo va scoprendo la novella vita.Delicato come un acquerello, con qualche guizzo di china fra i colori, Il libro dell’estate è una favola gentile.
Algidamente poetica.“Aha”.E allora voglio tradurre l’insopportabile petulanza di Sofia come richiesta, prepotente e gridata, di quel mancato slancio istintivo e umano capace di attenuare, per quanto possibile, il dolore della perdita e il senso di smarrimento e rabbia.
A wonderful book about all of the things that are probably important in the world.
The Summer Book is less of a conventional story than a series of vignettes about summers spent on an island by Sophia and her Grandmother (her father is there too, but only as a rather distant character).
Sophia was occasionally a little bit brattish, but I loved the character of Grandmother who was brusque to the point of rudeness but always seemed to know the right thing to do, and was up for plenty of adventuring, even when somewhat ill-advised!The sense of time and place in this short novel was exceptionally vivid, I thought, and made me want to go and spend a summer or two on a Scandinavian island :-)
The lingering memories of The Summer Book are of having dwelt for a while in a dreamlike idyll. Yet as with other similarly-affecting books, Brideshead and  Le Grand Meaulnes , there is darkness too, deeper within the reverie.The exquisitely-described landscapes of a small Finnish island are remoter and rockier and mossier and harsher than those of early twentieth century France or southern England. The peace and isolation are a holiday in themselves: it's something north european fiction does v
. And the translator's repeated use of the word 'skerry' amplifies the similarity of Nordic and Scottish landscapes.It's not the book of one summer: the summers mingle, un-numbered and out of time as if there were no school or Christmas between.
And from one former stroppy wilful brat to another, it's a truer childhood than it would be with some Pollyanna protagonist.It would have been quite lovely to have read this out in the sun at the height of summer, but the end instead matches our summer's end.
This is incredibly relaxing. These short stories detail a slow and peaceful island life, long summer days, grandmother and granddaughter. Detailed peace and the build-up of life moments. A painting built up from colored daubs. Reminds me of Studio Ghibli movies.
I temi di fondo sono due: la natura e il trascorrere del tempo così come scaturisce nel raffronto fra l'infanzia e la vecchiaia.
Sarà perché siamo più o meno coetanei, alla nonna un po' mi ci sono affezionato, generosa e taciturna maestra di vita in quella piccola isola, selce levigata e meravigliosamente aspra sperduta nel mare.
Molto più lontana mi è rimasta la bimba Sofia, una creaturina saccente e un po' antipatica che a sei anni parla come un libro stampato.e quasi quasi li scrive pure, i libri.
Non possono sapere che il sale grosso è in cantina, e la botola può essersi gonfiata per l'umidità.
Jansson captures not only a season but life itself with this short novel of a grandmother and her granddaughter summering on an island in the Gulf of Finland.
The freshness of spring turns to the muggy veil of summer, and when August comes, our feelings of ending and loss are those we experience every year in this month.
In another blogpost, we get pictures of Tove Jansson’s mother with Tove’s niece, Sophia, and the picture makes the entire book come clear.
This is a wonderfully atmospheric story that will allow you to experience summer at any time of the year.
Jos lukeminen on Sen Täydellisen etsimistä, minun ei tarvitse lukea enää yhtään romaania ikinä.
Kesäkirja on täydellinen.Patti Smith kirjoittaa Omistautuminen-teoksessaan, että hänen kirjoittajaunelmansa on: "Kuirjoittaa jotain hienoa, jotain itseäni parempaa, jotain mikä antaa merkityksen minun koettelemuksilleni ja hairahduksilleni.
Todistaa, sinne tänne ryntäilevin sanoin, että Jumala on olemassa." Kesäkirja on sellainen.
Että jokainen pikkutyttö käy kauppaa jumalan kanssa ja uskoo voivansa liikuttaa jumalan mieltä omiin pahoihin tekoihinsa.
Että syvimmillään yö tulee seinää ihan liki.
Ja että on universaalia, että "asiat ihmisen mielessä kutistuvat ja häipyvät taaksepäin, ja se mikä oli niin hauskaa aikoinaan ei enää merkitse mitään.
’Twas good! Sweet, short, subtle. So episodic it was like linked short stories, but the episodes taken together were far more than the sum of their parts. Really, this defies my critical abilities. I don’t want to criticise it. It sticks in my mind. I can see it. But it went down so smoothly it barely touched the sides. I take this to be a haiku-like ‘deceptive simplicity’, but until I read it again I won’t know what it hides. Maybe then I’ll love it. For now, liking it a lot will have to do.
Hmm... I would have to say that I'm between a 3-star (liked it) and 4-star (really liked it) rating. It took me several chapters to get into the flow as (stylistically) it was not what I was expecting. Once I realized that the story is really more about the crotchety old grandmother than the child, I began to fall under its charms (and having a very similar relationship with my own grandmother may have swayed me even further).
♥
The book is hugely poetic, yet also wonderfully funny and charming."Are there ants in Heaven?" Sophia asked."No," said Grandmother, and lay down carefully on her back.
.....Sophia picked some flowers and held them in her hand until they got warm and unpleasant; then she put them down on her Grandmother and asked how God could keep track of all the people who prayed at the same time."He's very, very smart," Grandmother mumbled sleepily under her hat."Answer really," Sophia said.
