https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327548.The_Walking_Drum

As a student of histories, having earned a double Bachelor's in Archaeology and Classical Civilizations, and routinely indulging my lifelong interest in Medieval times, I must admit to being humbled - Louis Dearborn L'Amour, a man who received no schooling past the age of 15 and no formal training in research, could have put my own abilities to shame.Regardless of the historical accuracy and other technical aspects of the novel, as a reader and lover of stories I was thoroughly entertained by The Walking Drum's hero, Mathurin Kerbouchard, and his adventures and endeavors.
The Walking Drum by L'Amour is an incredible book!
He starts the book out fast and keeps the pace going throughout, never leaving a moment of reading dull!
Any lover of historical fiction, adventure, or just looking for a good read would definitely find this book one to keep on their shelf!The story follows Mathurin Kerbouchard, the son of the famous corsair Jean Kerbouchard.
Under guise of Christian and Muslim, soldier and teacher, watch the adventures of Kerbouchard as he searches for his father...a father who may no longer live.
As a kid I read many a Louis L'Amour western.
I liked them and I could read them in a matter of few hours.
Okay so lets move ahead some thirty years.
I like history and I always enjoy the occasional historical novel.
The hero is a superman.
So I then went to my local thrift store and picked up a couple of L'Amour's old westerns.
Okay.
The heroes are from a template.
All the characters are from a template as are the plots.
The books all went back to the second-hand store.
I won't be reading anymore L'Amour novels.
This book annoyed me.
The main character goes off to find his father, and falls in love along the way.
The main character keeps taking detours, all of which involve separate subplots where he conquers some other beautiful woman's heart and acquires some other sort of distinction (he seems to find it pretty easy to forget that he's trying to save his father) so that by the end of the book he's a physician, an alchemist, an acrobat, an unparalleled swordsman, and can read and write half a dozen languages and transcribe entire books from memory.
It annoyed me.
Not because the writing was particularly brilliant (its good, not brilliant).
The writing at times was even a bit disjointed.
But its a 5 star book in my eyes because I know that I'll return to this book again and again over the years and I know that I'll still take something new from it each time.
One can immediately tell that he values an education in the classics.
I've heard that all of his hero's in his books read quite a few classics and that he places an importance on self-education.
The swashbuckling, womanizing, philosophizing adventurer Kerbouchard trapses around 11th century Europe, alternating between escaping death at the hands of half a dozen armed guards and bedding beautiful, exotic women.
But it's entertaining historical fiction, and you can't help but learn some things about the times, and how rotten western Europe was compared to Moorish Spain.I actually read this because it's listed as a "classic" on the Thomas Jefferson Education lists, and I was rather surprised to see a Louis L'Amour book on there, so I wanted to check it out.
The only reason I can think of that they list this book is because the main character's insatiable quest for knowledge and reading original manuscripts is supposed to be some sort of model for someone following the TJEd method.
I have so many favorite lines in it that I have actually underlined in the book that if I were to share them this review would go on forever.
It's a real shame that L'Amour passed away before he could write the other two books he was planning with this character.
Well, it's been my loss because this book could only be written by someone who was probably verging on being a genius.
It's incredible, and if his western books are half as well written I may have found myself a new favorite writer.
The characters and setting were so real that I found myself dreaming about this book upon falling asleep at night.
“The Walking Drum” is a historical novel set in 12th century Europe and the Middle East. Mathurin Kerbouchard, the main character, learns that his mother has been murdered in Brittany and that his father is now forced into servitude somewhere east of Baghdad and south of Tehran. Young Kerbouchard begins a long journey in search of revenge for his mother’s death and his missing father. Knowing his mother was murdered by Baron de Tournemine, Mathurin immediately looks for a way to temporarily esca
As the caravan continues its travels, Safia has learned that Mathurin's father is at Alamut, the fortress of the Old Man of the Mountain (Assassin), but warns that going there is dangerous.
Invited to meet the emperor, Mathurin offers him advice and a book and tells the Emperor of his desire to rescue his father from Alamut.
Before he leaves for Alamut, Mathurin meets the princess Sundari, from Anhilwara, and, learning that she is being forced into marriage, promises, if he escapes Alamut alive, to come to Hind and rescue her from this fate.
A great tale that I first read as a teenager in the eighties and have read several times since.
I was enthralled with this story and how well the character Kerbouchard was written.
The story takes place in the 12th century in Europe and you follow Kerbouchard through lots of regions as a young teenager looking for his father.
It is written in the first person which really gives you a thorough understanding of how the main character thinks and what motivates him.
It is too bad that Mr. L'Amour passed away before a sequel could be written.
I couldn't have picked a better one because now I'm completely hooked and always have at least two of his books in my room,My favorite thing about this book is that it gives a very different view of the middle ages then you get in most history books.
The difference is that the main character spends most of his time on the outskirts of Europe instead of the staple countries of England, France, and Germany.
I mean I sort of knew that most of Europe was behind the times I just didn't realize how far.Before I read this book I had no idea what the rest of the world was like during the fourteen hundreds.
For the mind must be prepared for knowledge as one prepares a field for planting, and a discovery made too soon is no better than a discovery not made at all.""We had met as equals, rarely a good thing in such matters, for the woman who wishes to be the equal of a man usually turns out to be less than a man and less than a woman.
In the 12th Century, I wouldn't be a sword weilding crusader!"Up to a point a man's life is shaped by environment, heredity, and movements and changes in the world about him; then there comes a time when it lies within his grasp to shape the clay of his life into the sort of thing he wishes to be.
Amazing book, my favorite of all time as of right now. Amazingly researched and based on actual facts (not sure on accuracy but it read well) with a gazillion quotable moments. I want to call Louis up and tell him he's really outdone himself.
There's some good historical overview in this tale but it's too over the top to the point in being melodramatic. The best thing I can garner here is that it's an older style of writing with a self-absorbed pulpy hero. OVERALL GRADE: C minus
One of the most favorite reads. Excellent characters, story line, historical references, and grand adventure. If you liked the Count of Monte Cristo you will love this epic story.
I LOVED this book for many different reasons.
lol Some people are also frustrated with the amount of history that Louis L'Amour includes in this book.
But that's one of the major reasons I love this book!
No one can write history like the great researcher, Louis L'Amour.
Now 12th century Spain is one of my favorite places/times in history, in part because of the way he painted it in his book.
All in all, I loved the history included, the over-the-top protagonist (and his humility), the length of the book, and all the substories/adventures that were included.
Great book and really a must-read if you like history and swash-buckling adventure.
This is the first and only Louis L'Amour book I've read, and I'm glad I chose this one to start with.
The main character is completely unbelievable and so are his exploits, but in a novel like this one it's a little irrational to criticize something like that.
I like how he doesn't dwell on details that don't have much to do with the overall plot, but instead moves the book along at an almost overwhelming speed.
It did take me a while to get used to the near-infallibility of the main character, but I liked it.
I was impressed by all the historical information squeezed in every nook and cranny, but felt it took a little away from the story.
*spoiler alert* the escape sequence at the end...really?
If I am going to invest 400 plus pages in your story, Mr. Lamour, I expect a better ending than what you gave me.
Instead I found a glossary to back up historical references...which was nice, but not what I was looking for.And don't get me started on this character's version of 'loooove' because the number of women this guy fell in love with, only to completely let slip away, is ridiculous.
L'Amour winds his wealth of information into the story well; I never really felt overwhelmed by extras.Kerbouchard, the main character in this novel, is glorified beyond belief; even the name itself, apart from all glory won by the main character and his father, is said to have a certain ring to it.
I personally felt the presentation of Kerbouchard and his features/abilities in such a biased light was reminiscent of heroic tales and mythos, and though it got pretty hillarious at times it didn't detract too much from the novel.
despite the seemingly random adventures and bumpy subplots the main character goes on, this was an exceptionally great introduction to the so-called Arab Renaissance period in early medieval history, of which I was not aware even existed before reading this!
The quest is to find and rescue his father if he still lives, which is in question.I love history and reading this book with no prior knowledge of the area or the history was amazing.
I don’t doubt that in real life such a man in that time period and place probably would not have survived some of them, but this is an adventure story.
His constant quest for knowledge is truly inspiring as I know there have been and still are people who live to learn and are more or less obsessed by it.My favorite part of the book comes some past the half way mark.
The witty banter, swashbuckling scenes, and rapid progression from frying pan to fire to the next worse predicament were enjoyable, if not a bit over-the-top.What I enjoyed most of this book were the lessons about self-education, purpose, and history.The protagonist feels an insatiable hunger for knowledge.
I don't claim that this book is fully correct or wholly important to this discussion, but it effectively invites the reader to consider the valuable lessons and contributions made throughout history that have been censored (whether intentionally or not)from our curricula.Still kinda soap-boxy...
Unlike Louis L'Amour's wild west books, this story is mostly told against a backdrop of 12th century Europe.Like most of his other books though this one is fabulously researched and makes history come alive so you can actually taste the salt spray on the decks of corsair ships, gawk at exotic ware in the colorful markets of Moorish Spain, feel excitement at the birth of new ideas amongst intellectuals and students at coffee shops and at glamorous soirées held by the intelligensia, the bold and the beautiful of their time.
I read this book for school when I was in the eighth grade.
It was a fantastic read at the time, and not just because it was full of escapist adventure and "character growth", but because of the historical aspects.
Granted, fiction is never a great place for a history lesson (then again, hardly any history books in schools are, either), but what I remember most about this book was how sophisticated he painted the Arab/Muslim world of that era.
I considered this a fun read and eye-openining in that small way and for this reason it has made the high rating I am giving it.
This is the 3rd L'Amour book I have read now, and I still do not particularly love his stories.
Although I do love L'Amour, because he was a voracious reader, and you tell that he was a great reader in through his books, which I really enjoy.
However, I did like getting a feel for the merchant caravans during the 12th Century and I liked seeing the contrast between cities he visited.
In fact, the contrasting cities will probably have a lasting impact on my life because you can see what becomes a society that allows reading and knowledge to flow freely versus ones that do not.
I had thought of L'Amour as only a Western writer and thought this to be a book about the American Indian. Very suprised that the action took place in Europe and the Middle East. Very interesting book and I would recommend it for anyone who might reject it on the bases of L'Amour's stereotyped westerns. Of coarse, any hard core L'mour fan will read it anyway.
I like history, but I prefer the info-rich stuff to come from nonfiction books, since it’s hard to trust a novel.The hero of the tale is Mathurian Kerbouchard, and the book is told in first person from his point of view.
In the author’s notes, L’Amour said he had planned to write another two books with Kerbouchard, but he died before he could accomplish that.
So if you don’t like reading series unless you can have all the books, be aware that this series is incomplete.
This is the story of a boy becoming a man.
It is of discipline and endurance being of more import than wealth or luck.
And that the mind is more important than physical strength.
These are some of the themes that stood out to me.And there is a strong "Joseph of Egypt" feel to this book.
For mortal man, it is impressive enough to lift oneself just once from the dust and develop wealth, success, and power.
Kerbouchard does it time after time after time.Overall, this was a tedious and melodramatic book.
I felt like Kerbouchard was a 12th Century Super Hero.
Kerbouchard falls in love with five women in this book.
Please excuse me, Kerbouchard, if it takes me a little while to believe that the last woman you meet is ACTUALLY your lifelong love...you only knew her for about two days, right?Now for the things I liked about this book: Proficient writing, page-turning action all the way through, occasional thought-provoking declarations, and a historical background that seems accurate enough to be interesting.
What I really liked was L'Amour's brief discussion and glossary of the historical terms, concepts, and people at the back.
"Over the top" is a phrase appearing in another reviewer's work here--and I'm borrowing it because it so fully encapsulates not only the attitude of the overblown hero in this story but L'amour's own egotism.
My daughter and I read this one together because it was included on a reading list for one of her high school classes.
But then, what can we expect from a man who refused ever to write a second draft or to allow anyone to edit his work?
In the end, the only way my daughter and I could make it through this pretentious mess was by treating it as an outrageous comedy.
