https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10158695-the-autobiography-of-andrew-carnegie
I knew very little about his early life and how he made his fortune.
I am always a bit leary of autobiographies because most people are not objective when writing about themselves.
Carnegie seemed to live a charmed life where everything pretty much goes his way and his way is up, up, up.
For one thing, it was written in the early 1900s near the end of Carnegie's life.
However, I am pretty sure only a student of history would recognize most of the names.
These two things make the reading pretty hard to get through.
When Carnegie is telling stories about people and moments that impacted his life, I was enthralled and inspired.
An example of this is how he looks to the Kaiser of Germany to lead the world in establishing peace.
But as students of history, we have the hindsight of years and I just wanted to yell at him and say that within 10 years, the first of two bloody wars will show that world peace is nowhere near eminent.
Carnegie was a man of his time, a titan of business, an engaging write, and a story teller for the ages, this book shows him at his best and at his most naïve.
This was an amazing memoir of a man who was an incredible human being. Published after his death he shares his thoughts, life experiences, stories, favorite quotes. I have always associated Carnegie with libraries, rightly so but he was so much more. I would recommended this book to everyone, we have much to learn from him.
I don’t believe this was his intention, and thus he reveals an unguarded view of the world as it used to be.The last third of the book are chapters that Mr. Carnegie probably felt would be better presented as subjects having their own sections rather than trying to include them in the chronological portion.
Most of these chapters cover other people living at the same time, and Mr. Carnegie’s interactions with them.Overall, a very interesting book that compelled me to take my time, stepping back in history and sharing the life and thoughts of a successful businessman.
OK, I'd give it 3.5 stars.
Carnegie is actually a very good writer, well-versed in literacy and history and politics.
If I were better versed in those things I'd have rated it higher, but the book dragged a bit for me because of all the things/places/people I didn't know much about (but probably should).
I came away with a great respect for and admiration of him and what he accomplished; I now probably need to read a more unbiased account of his biography to get the whole story.
I listened to the audible version and enjoyed it very much. The accent of the performer lent an air of authenticity to the book that I enjoyed. Liked hearing about the mans life from his own point of view. Will follow it with a less biased version at some point to see how they compare, but this was very well written and well performed.
I enjoyed this book, especially the first part. I realized that I had heard of his accomplishments, but I didn't know that much about his early life or his later years. (I have heard people sum up his later years by saying "and he gave away all his money". There's a bit more to it than that that thankfully this book goes into.) It's written very well and was an enjoyable read. It's amazing how many important people in history he met. If you are a bit of a history buff, I think you would enjoy this book.
First half was enjoyable to read, but the last half was awful.
For heck sakes "Andy" you were one of the richest men in the 19th century, but your writing about yourself was boring....He did give lots of background on the way he came up and I did enjoy several bits of wisdom for many different situations.
However, it was a tad bit boring and I don't think he was as nice to his employees as he made it:) I'm glad I read it and understand the man that made the industry in which I make a living at.
I want to read an biography not written by him next.
This was really excellent, better than I'd expected. Carnegie is a surprisingly good author and his narrative of his life makes for a very interesting read. I'd definitely recommend it for history buffs and people who have an interest in the psychology of a turn-of-the-century industrialist. Favorite quote, in reference to the telescope at an observatory that he sponsored: "When the monster new glass, three times larger than any existing, is in operation, what revelations are to come! I am assured that if a race inhabits the moon they will be clearly seen."
Intriguing book about a man who started with nothing, worked hard and valued education (in many forms), became extremely wealthy, then left all his money to charity.He shares much about his business life from which I saved several quotes. You rarely find his kind of integrity in the business world now-a-days.
But it is after all, the thoughts occupying the author's mind, and therefore, must be something he deemed worth telling.Depending on your own mindset while reading this book, I think each reader will take away different things from it.
From a business perspective it is worth noting how much he seemed to care about his employees, partners, and his own reputation.
All people had to do was ask, and he'd build them a library!My one disappointment was that he seemed to leave out most of the minutiae and small details which I would have found fascinating about how he operated his businesses and how he built them over time.
With that context it is quite an enjoyable book, but the further you get the less it feels like a biography than a set of notes.The early chapters are a delightful stroll through AC's early life, truly an amazing 'rags to riches' tale.
Lots to learn here about taking advantage of the opportunities life presents you.
The latter chapters deal mostly with relationships between AC and other well know people of the early 20th century.
For me this was the least interesting part of the book as most of the people being described were unknown to me.Bonus: the audible version is read with a Scottish accent adding greatly to the narration.
A very interesting man. Before reading this I really only knew about the libraries. He had a hand in so much more and lived at such a pivotal time in our history. If only more people today acted and thought like Carnegie did.My favorite line was probably the following: "I believe the peace of the world has little to fear from Germany." Oh, how the future unfolded. Autobiographies are interesting too because of how bias they must be, but hold their own truth too for the person having witten it.
Andrew Carnegie has an amazing story, and I will now need to find a good third-party biography to ready about him now. Autobiographies often have difficulty getting a fair perspective of things and not being biased, and that is true of this book. There is no doubt that Carnegie was a remarkable man, and he tells a good story but I suspect that he is also very kind to his own point-of-view. He also tends to jump around at times in the book which makes it somewhat difficult to follow, but I am very glad that I read this book.
I found Carnegie to be a fascinating person and his story was well written for the most part.
Most people are probably primarily impressed by Carnegie's work after his retirement: all his bountiful gifts to charitable causes and so forth.
But the last few chapters of the book that covered this area of his life left me a bit disappointed in what he became after retirement.
He went from being an intelligent, hard working, and diligent pilot of a vast self-made enterprise, to kind of a silly, naive, meddling politician that had too much money.
Despite this I found his story both inspiring and interesting.
This book is an excellent read. It is loaded with life lessons and sound principles. Mr. Carnegie and myself are at variance with some of his religious views, but they are not worth exploring here. (I also understand his perspective, and cannot fault him for it.)Highly recommended.
I thought this would be boring and lack relevance to the 21st century I live in. How wrong I was. Further, I found myself intrigued by the 1914 and early World War I perspective...
Enjoyable and insightful read. I got a little bogged down in the business transactions and the name dropping, but his wisdom and insight made up for it. I will likely pick this up again.
Capitalism sure is wild
A bit long winded toward the end but an uplifting read about a hazy figure in my memory. Nice to have a sharper image of the guy now.
Well, I finished it. Carnegie leaves Scotland. Comes to America. Becomes rich. Travels back and forth to Scotland. There are some interesting spots, and there is a lot of uninteresting stuff.
A thoroughly amazing and impressive book, with some impressive moments of frustration.First, my frustration: Mr. Carnegie didn't tell me anything like all I wanted to know about how he did it.
Mr. Carnegie reports, "I believe that higher wages to men who respect their employers and are happy and contented are a good investment, yielding, indeed, big dividends." (p.
191) "...capital, labor, and employer were a three-legged stool, none before or after the others, all equally indispensable." (p.
It is not capital we need to guard, but helpless labor.
In the book "Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln" there was half chapter about the President and his time on the telegraph war room but without mentioning Carnegie.
I'm sure that the two man got connected in a very deep way since every loss and win was reported by Carnegie to the President directly.
The way that he managed labour seems to be rather a man with a social conscience and his later Philanthropy years most probably prove that.He didn't like speculators, and he got fooled by them at the end, mainly Morgan, the banker by 100 million dollars.
I am always interested in the history of people and places I have visited.Andrew Carnegie was a fascinating figure and this story is told wonderfully by Kevin Theiss.I was provided this book free by the author,narrator or publisher.
It's incredible how prescient this great man was. He had notions that would fit perfectly well into modern discussions of labor relations, charity, and leadership. I knew of some of his generosity from history, but his remarkable achievements in his own words were truly fantastic. Narrator did an excellent job bringing this man to life.I was voluntarily provided a copy of this audiobook by the narrator or publisher for an unbiased review.
A couple of things I took away from Carnegie's life: -He started his career by not asking for permission - acting instead and asking for forgiveness if needed.
It is surprising how few men appreciate the enormous dividends provided by investing in their own business.
Concentrate your whole time and attention in the one business in life in which they engage, and put every dollar of your capital into it.
If there be any business that will not bear extension, then invest in first-class securities."-Carnegie decided he would be the master of iron and steel-Carnegie says one should make the voyage around the world.
Let it also be said that Carnegie is a great writer; in fact, you learn he first drew attention to himself by powerful men by writing editorials that were published in major newspapers.And yet...
I suspect Carnegie, great writer that he was, did not intend some of these sections to be published in the draft form it was at the time.
(The editor who published the book put it in chronological order but did not edit it.) Still, the book is a well-written insight on a fascinating man.
It’s nice and surprising to see that so many people on Goodreads have read this book.
I have been doing a fair amount of reading about 19th century America and this is how I happened to come across this surprising book.
He was a man of strong character, ambitious but not a narcissist (apparently quite unlike the other famous ultra rich of the time!).
Brought up in a family of craftspeople in Scotland with very strong roots in Scottish history, he grew up on tales of the adventures and bravery of his people.
Carnegie gives a detailed description of his early days; the manner in which he got started in business, from his initial forays into investments to his wildly successful enterprising in the steel industry, then later, the extraordinary way in which he went about distributing his wealth when he felt he had amassed enough riches.The latter part of the book is spent on sharing personal anecdotes and giving his impression of some of the most important men of the age, whom he spent a good deal of time with after retirement.
Otherwise, this is a very enjoyable and informative read.
Although the business practice has gone a sea change from those times over a century ago , yet the book keeps one engaged , if only by the sheer reputation of AG as one of the architects of modern America .
For those of us , who have seen and grown in the thrill of the information age , a welcome change to rewind back and catch on with some of the thrill and ecstasy of the transformational power of the industrial age ......
things that are commonplace for us , so much so that at times we take them for granted .
I approached the book with a sort of moderated mindset and must say , was not disappointed .
