https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60106.Mr_Palomar
The thought of a time outside our experience is intolerable. Had I met someone like Mr. Palomar before reading this book, I’d have easily passed him off as just another middle aged man on the verge of senility with nothing better to do with his time or at the most a mad wannabe scientist who realized about his true calling when it was too late with no one interested about his observations or findings. But trust Mr. Calvino when it comes to make seemingly weak characters strong and one of the m
Had I met someone like Mr. Palomar before reading this book, I’d have easily passed him off as just another middle aged man on the verge of senility with nothing better to do with his time or at the most a mad wannabe scientist who realized about his true calling when it was too late with no one interested about his observations or findings.
A garden philosopher and impromptu poet, Mr Palomar teeters on the brink between shower thoughts humour and philosophical essay, discovering universal patterns and meaning during his summer vacation at the beach, stargazing in the evening, tending his small city garden, going to the zoo or to foreign countries, shopping for meat or for cheese,going out in society or simply meditating in his easy chair.
So, towards the end of this funny yet very serious novel, Mr Palomar turns his questing eye inward and towards more abstract thought patterns:We can know nothing about what is outside us, if we overlook ourselves, the universe is the mirror in which we contemplate only what we have learned to know in ourselves.And thus this new phase of his itinerary in search of wisdom is also achieved.
Mr. Palomar was published in an English translation by William Weaver in 1985.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: شانزدهم ماه نوامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: آقای پالومار؛ ایتالو کالوینو؛ مترجم: آرزو اقتداری؛ تهران، کتاب خورشید، 1389، در 131 ص؛ شابک: 9789647081801؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایتالیایی قرن 20 ماین داستان نخستین بار با عنوان «دو داستان در یک کتاب آقای پالومار و نوه چنتو» در سال 1377 در 220 ص تهران، انتشارات موسسه ایران؛ منتشر شده است.
Thus, in simplified terms I say only that a prospective reader should expect a progression with each three vignettes from a perceptual issue, to one concerned with human meanings and symbols, and ending with one that focuses on an abstract topic dealing with time, the cosmos, or relations between the self and the world.
But the depressive and self-wounding ego that dwells with the other in the same container, rebuts, “Everyone with eyes sees the reflection that follows him; illusion of the senses and of the mind holds us all prisoners, always.” A third tenant, a more even-handed ego, speaks up: “This means that, no matter what, I belong to the feeling and thinking subjects, capable of establishing a relationship with the sun’s rays, and of interpreting and evaluating perceptions and illusions.
القراءة الأولي لـ إيتالو كالفينو ..
علي الرغم من كونها رواية تأملية وفلسفية للغاية ..
وتأملاته الشخصية التي لا تدع له مجالا للتفكير في شئ أخر سوي هذه الأفكار الفلسفية والتساؤلات التي لا يجد لها إجابات شافية !فالعالم كله بكل ما فيه من كائنات وأصوات ومواقف هو غابة من التساؤلات المتشابكة ...
ولكنها يا سيدي لم تجعلني أتشابك معها في دوامات الفكر والتأمل ..فلقد كنت بعيدة طوال الكتاب .
أقرأ عنك ..
ولا أقرأ معك !!كنت أشاهدك من بعيد ..
ولا يسمعه ...
!ولكن ..
لن تكوني قراءتي الوحيدة لكالفينو ..فلن أحكم عليه من هذه القراءة فقط
Calvino's bittersweet final "novel": a series of reflections on humanity's relationship to the universe, to the world, to itself.
Encyclopedic and rigorously-structured in a 3 x 3 x 3 lattice, Mr. Palomar and his musings are nonetheless much more human than mechanical.
And so there is an endpoint to all contemplation, to this book, and sadly, two years after this was published in 1983, to the life of Italo Calvino.
Mr. Palomar, as the name suggests, is an observant soul.
He, Calvino, is at his best when Mr. Palomar observes two blackbirds whistling, maybe at each other, at the same time that Mrs. Palomar starts chirping at him, a juxtaposition I am half acquainted with.He looks upwards to the stars, the planets, as he surely must, and eventually looks at his own death.This is often profound but sometimes trite, and as the picture on the cover of my edition suggests, ........
can be a little creepy at times.
لا يشترط على الجميع ان يتذوقوا اعمال كالفينو أو يفهموا ما يصبو اليه، ليس لأن أعماله صعبة او غير مستساغة.. بالعكس، بل لأنها دقيقة وعميقة. فتراه مثلاً يقف على الشرفة أو على الشاطئ ويشرع بتخيل وتصوّر ما لا يوجد بالحسبان من خيالاتقرأت الكتاب ترجمة ياسين طه حافظ وحين قارنتها بترجمة بسام الحجار لم أجد الفرق الكبير، كلا التارجم رائعة واحترافية
Muovendoci in un insieme di nove racconti per tre sezioni, per un totale di ventisette bozzetti, tutti rigorosamente senza cornice, ci affidiamo al suo essere pensante.Gustiamo la certezza dell' illusione dei sensi e della mente nei tortuosi suoi pensieri e cerchiamo di cogliere tutte le considerazioni verso le quali Calvino ha voluto che ci soffermassimo.Coni e bastoncelli e teoria del colore, rilettura dell' EROS, considerazioni ambientaliste, fine semiologia.Il ritratto di un Io molteplice: l'Io megalomane, l'Io egocentrico, l'Io depressivo, L' Io autolesionista, l'Io parziale....Una perla di rara e raffinata intelligenza, una scrittura poetica, un saggio sull'animo umano che ti strappa anche momenti (quasi tutti nei finali) di squisita ironia.
Calvino, Kendi Yer ve Gök tanrısını yaratma fikrini fazla ütopik bulmuş olacak ki   Palomar  ile yetinmiş. Bu bile fazlasıyla yetiyor aslında. Palomar, kitap boyunca size doğadan hayvanlara, yemek kültüründen seyahate kadar türlü mecraya kendi gözlem ve eleştiriyle anlatmak istiyor ama kendi çalıp kendi söylüyor da diyebiliriz. Bölümler, alıntılar karmakarışık bir anlatıma sahip. Palomar'ın durduk yere yerden türeyen bir derviş edası var ki o en komik olan. Son bölümde bir serbest fikir geçişi v
Calvino, Kendi Yer ve Gök tanrısını yaratma fikrini fazla ütopik bulmuş olacak ki 
   Palomar
 ile yetinmiş. Bu bile fazlasıyla yetiyor aslında. Palomar, kitap boyunca size doğadan hayvanlara, yemek kültüründen seyahate kadar türlü mecraya kendi gözlem ve eleştiriyle anlatmak istiyor ama kendi çalıp kendi söylüyor da diyebiliriz. Bölümler, alıntılar karmakarışık bir anlatıma sahip. Palomar'ın durduk yere yerden türeyen bir derviş edası var ki o en komik olan. Son bölümde bir serbest fikir geçişi var o biraz kıpırtı yapacakken kitap bitiyor. Okunmaması büyük bir kayıp değil.
Palomar isimli karakterin içsel yolculuğuna katıldığımız bu kitap, Calvino ölmeden 3 yıl önce yayınlanmış, dolayısıyla ister istemez Calvino'un iç dünyasına yolculuk diye daldım bu kitaba. Matematiksel düşüncelerin ağırlığı altında ve bazen aşırı soyutlamalarla ilerlediğinden yer yer sıkıcı olsa da, birçok noktada kendi düşüncelerimin, şaşkınlıklarımın, kayboluş ve anıştırmalarımın gölgesiyle karşılaştığım için hayret duyup keyiflendim. Bildiğimiz klasik anlatı romanlarından ziyade bir tür içsel monolog olarak okunabilecek bu kitap olaylardan ziyade günümüz dünyasının maddeciliği/nesneleri ve çıkmazları arasında; sonsuzlukla geçicilik arasında sonsuzluğa ve anlamsızlığa doğru giden bir kitap. Sıradışı, değişik bir edebi metin okumak isteyenlere tavsiye edilir. Aksi halde sıkıntıdan başka bir şey vermeyebilir!
But, perhaps owing to my mellowing with middle-age, I realise the fear and trembling stemming from Poe through Kafka to Borges is not the be-all and end-all – that, in light of my more recent love affair with his younger countryman Antonio Tabucchi, Calvino’s – at least in Mr Palomar – is in some ways a perfect temperament for me, so long as he’s balanced with grittier writers to offset his arch impersonality.
In the world of books, too, Mr Palomar is a stranger.
ανησυχίες, προβληματισμοί και σύμβολα...σκέψεις για το σύμπαν, το άπειρο, τον κόσμο, την ανθρώπινη ουσία και φυσικά τον χρόνο.
Ο Italo Calvino, με τις περιγραφές και τις διηγήσεις του στοχαστικού χαρακτήρα τον οποίο πλάθει και ψυχογραφεί μέσα από τις ίδιες του τις εμπειρίες, παρουσιάζει μίαν άλλη αντίληψη του κόσμου, από το ατέρμονο σύμπαν μέχρι το μικρό βοτσαλάκι.
Παραθέτει προβληματισμούς και σκέψεις που σε καλούν να ταυτιστείς με τον πρωταγωνιστή και να στοχαστείς μαζί του καθώς και να συμμετάσχεις στην προσπάθεια του για κατάκτηση της αυτογνωσίας."Δεν μπορούμε να γνωρίσουμε τίποτα το ξένο σ' εμάς, αν παρακάμπτουμε τον εαυτό μας" (σελ.137)
Trở lại cuốn sách, Mr Palomar hẳn là một người nhạy cảm quá đỗi, một ngọn gió lướt qua cũng đủ làm chàng ngập chìm suy tư.
Chưa kể, cảnh 2 con rùa mần nhau cũng được nhuốm màu triết học : ))))Còn nếu không nhạy cảm thì Mr Palomar hay Italo Calvino hẳn phải là một nhà quan sát đại tài.
Những sự vật, hiện tượng bình thường trong cuộc sống, kiểu ta dễ dàng phất tay mà bảo 'xời, có gì đặc biệt chứ', qua lăng kính của Palomar mà chủ mưu là Italo thật...hại não.
I'm not one of your starry-eyed prose-droolers who appreciates beautiful writing on its own terms.
I need formal innovation or structural complexity or dazzling dialogue or knee-snapping humour to keep me amused amid the lexical contortionism.
This makes Calvino an infuriating bedfellow: his Oulipo-era prose is constructed with tight mathematical rigidity, yet what comes through in this work is the shiny artifice of his prose, the sparkly poetics of the Cosmicomics.
Not good.Well .
Hats off to the rigorous structure, though, and that final chapter: beautiful.
(I'm not averse to a little beauty on its own terms).
Every time I pick up an Italo Calvino book I am torn between two poles: on one hand, I am initially intensely disinterested: how to get involved in a book that has no overarching plot?
And, provided I give him a chance, my mind begins to think that Calvino is some kind of god who has the blue-prints to the human condition, human nature and human perception.
So then, in the end, having fully appreciated Calvino's short essays, my initial disinterest turns into frustration: why didn't he ever write a full novel?
Uno di quei libricini piccoli e sottili ma che racchiudono un mondo, dall'infinito, alle costellazioni, ad una iguana, al trottare di una giraffa, ad una caraffa da tè. Palomar, individuo sensibile alle piccole grandi cose che lo circondano cerca di dare un senso al mondo in cui vive, una ragione, un perché. Logicamente arriva ad una sola conclusione possibile: forse il mondo ha un suo senso, sicuramente maggiore di quanto ne abbiamo noi umani.
I wonder if, sometime before I was born and sometime before he died, Mr. Calvino and I had a meeting where we decided we would become friends, or perhaps we simply agreed that I would admire him a great deal and would go to him in those moments of need when I wasn't even aware of my need.
Just like we had agreed long ago, before I was born and before he died - it must have happened this way because we have never been together in this world - I have come out admiring him a good deal more than I did before picking up the book.Take longer to read this book than you think you should.
This books isn't plot driven, or even character driven, so much as it is a book of images, thoughts, moods, and ideas.
Though Mr. Palomar is very relatable in some ways, he is also a very introverted and detached character, and though the entire book is composed of his perceptions, I wouldn't say this is really character-driven novel either.
Mr. Palomar is, if nothing else, a novel of mood, images, and thoughts.
Rating: 5 starsRecommendation: Read this if you like contemplative novels built on mood, images, and ideas.
Most of the chapters left me cold, though I did like the story about odd sized slippers and the unwitting fellowship conferred on strangers by being part of a "odd matched pair".Mr Calvino writes exquisitely as ever, but I struggled to get into this one.
In part this was because I could not get away from my own musings and reflections.
Early chapters are set at the beach and I could not get "Mr Bean's Holiday" out of my mind - plus there was an eerie echo of Jack Dees putdown of Michael Macintyre "he just goes around noticing things".Perhaps that was the whole point.
Um livro muito introspectivo e de grande reflexão, mas posso dizer, que gostei desta obra de Italo Calvino.O livro é subdividido em 3 grandes partes:1-As férias de Palomar- descrição2- Palomar na cidade-narração3- Os silêncios de Palomar- meditação.Cada uma destas partes, é por sua vez, dividida em pequenos capítulos, que nos revelam pequenos momentos na vida do senhor Palomar. Com grande pormenor e fugindo aos cânones normais da escrita, Calvino revela nesta obra, um grande fulgor criativo. É por isso um romance inovador, e que trás uma lufada de ar fresco à literatura contemporânea.
Nobody looks at the moon in the afternoonAnd this is the moment when it would most require our atten
But what makes the work so fascinating and entertaining is the invention of Calvino, the manner in which he realizes, through Palomar's fussy vision, the abstract in the business of birds and lizards.
The lightness of Calvino comes from his love of play, his significant capacity for articulating difficult concepts with a few specific materials.
This book comes from the same period in which Calvino wrote his wonderful Memos for the Next Millenium.
Throughout the Memos we see a similar conjunction of the scientific and the mythological, the specific and the abstract, always balanced one against the other producing wonder.
I'd started reading this book a long time ago but didn't get very far for reasons long since forgotten.
The book has no story as such at all, comprising a series of reflections.
And in the hands of another writer, this might be a recipe for tedium.
Calvino, of course, wasn't just another writer.
The melancholic, philosopher-fool Palomar is a wonderful invention.
'Mr Palomar' reminds me of Bodil Malmstem's 'The Price of Water in Finistère'.
It is a Tardis of a book - outwardly slight and yet, between its covers, gaining in depth and weight.
Non so perché mi sia venuto in mente di leggere Calvino, dato che so benissimo di non andare per niente d’accordo con la sua scrittura, che è eccellente dal punto di vista formale, ma che non mi soddisfa quasi mai, comunque. Troppo “fredda” per i miei gusti. E questo “Palomar” non fa eccezione.Vabbè, ormai è fatta.
I wanted to give this book one star as I "did not like it", but out of respect for many admiring readers of it here, give it two stars instead. I am now finished with my subjection of Italo Calvino. He just does not do it for me. Sorry.
Italo Calvino,Itália,1923-1985 Escritor "O conhecimento do próximo tem isto de especial: passa necessariamente pelo conhecimento de si mesmo".(Palomar)
Calvino kahramanına Kaliforniya'daki bir gözlemevinin ismini vermiş. Kitabın kahramanı Palomar da sürekli bir gözlem halinde; evreni ve tabiatı gözlemliyor ve onları, sonunda kendi iç dünyasını yansıtacak bir ayna olarak kullanmaya başlıyor. Evrenle bir olmak ve her şeyden önce kendini tanımak düşünceleri üzerine ilerleyen bir kitap. Calvino'nun karakterinde yarattığı gözlem ve bu gözlemlerinden insana dair fikirler üretebilme becerisini; Palomar karakterini ve kitabı çok sevdim.
It is like a transparent wafer, or half-dissolved pastille, only here the white circle is not dissolving but condensing, collecting itself at the price of gray-bluish patches and shadows that might belong to the moon’s geography or might be spillings of the sky that still soak the satellite, porous as a sponge.”And indeed the world would be a better and more beautiful place if only some of us paused to look at the moon in the afternoon.
MA se il linguaggio fosse davvero il punto di arrivo a cui tende tutto ciò che esiste?
O se tutto ciò che esiste fosse linguaggio, già dal principio dei tempi?
O nel tempo delle ore geologiche che sposta i continenti e rassoda la crosta delle terre emerse?
