https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11713.The_English_Patient
This remains one of my three favourite novels because of its poeticism, fragmentation and sensuality.This time through I decided to read it out loud, and a whole new sensuality exploded into the experience for me.
Actually rolling those words and worlds around on my tongue, wheezing my way through the English Patient's tale, letting Kip's Lahore English spill over my teeth, adopting Carravagio's voice as my own, and trying my best to capture Hana for myself (I have the benefit of being mostly Canadian and not having to adjust my accent for the latter two) broadened the sensuality of the book, and not just because the sounds were resounding in my head.
Michael Ondaatje in 1999 - image from NY Times This may be one of those rare instances in which the film exceeds the book.
Highly recommended, but while you should be prepared to love the poetry of the writing, be prepared also to maintain a distance from the characters.=============================EXTRA STUFFMichael Ondaatje on FBJuly 8, 2018 - crème de la crème of 50 years of Man Booker prizes - ‘The English Patient’ Wins Best of Man Booker PrizeThe Guardian - MO reading an essay he wrote while staying in Conrad’s boat in London Guardian Artangel books podcast: Michael Ondaatje June 4, 2007 – The New Yorker -  The Aesthete: The novel and Michael Ondaatje  by Louis Menand – a fascinating analysis of MO’s work -  He is not telling stories; he is using the elements of storytelling to gesture in the direction of a constellation of moods, themes, and images.
Michael Ondaatje's prose is the literary equivalent of having a gossamer skein repeatedly thrown over your face and then dragged away; fleeting and insubstantial, but just present enough to be really fucking annoying.
People in the 1940s absolutely did not speak the way Ondaatje has them speaking.
I haven't read Sacred Hunger, but the one novel by Unsworth I have read, Morality Play, was crisply written, well thought-out, and compelling, so I'm going to go ahead and say that--without ever having read it--there's no way Sacred Hunger could possibly occupy the same literary sewer that The English Patient does.
Hana, a young attractive Canadian nurse, takes care of the "Englishman" , she falls in love with this sad enigma, like many angels of mercy, in the past and the future, they succumb to the helpless .
Enter David Caravaggio, an old friend of her father's, back in Toronto, Canada, Caravaggio a petty thief, is like an uncle to Hana.
The fighting in its last days and the poor patient is dying ...Another man comes to the villa, Kirpal Singh, an Indian sapper (bomb disposal expert) not a job soldiers have for long.
It is a strange instance where it is almost recommended that you see the film first in order to appreciate more clearly in your mind the characters as their stories unfold.Whereas the film focused more on the burned Almasy and his memories of the unending African desert, where he would meet the enigmatic and beautiful Katherine Clifton, sealing the fate which would leave him a charred and hollow shell of his former self, Hanah is the focal point of Ondaatje's lovely poetic prose in the novel.
Both are magnificent, just a different picture of the same flower.If you loved the film, you must read the book.
The English Patient is an illuminating novel written by Michael Ondaatje, who tells the story of four damaged lives tangled together at the end of World War II.
The story involves characters like: the melancholy, childlike nurse Hana; the emotionally and physically maimed thief, Caravaggio; the pensive and wary Indian bomb-disposal expert, Kip; and the burnt and broken English patient, a mysterious wounded soul without a name.
The web of narrative is displayed much like how Hana reads to her patient from the books she tiptoes out of the library.
Yet, the English patient does not need this kind of comfort from Hana.
I would say that I enjoyed it, but I can't say that it is one that will stay with me, nor one I will keep and choose to reread.There is a lot of flicking between past and present, and between different characters with no way of defining when this happens.
This meant I found the narrative rather disjointed and at times confusing.
We also meet 2 others who come to stay with them in their makeshift house.I enjoyed the characters, and their complex personalities.
But the constant jumping between the narrative meant I couldn't get fully invested in the story.
There are mysteries and love triangles and all that polka, but something tripped me up early:Though the premise sounds interesting, I was immediately thrown off by a description on page one about the English patient’s penis “sleeping like a sea horse” and from then on I knew that I would not like this book.
I could try rereading The English Patient, but I think I’d trip over that sea horse penis line again and be left in a foul mood, so sorry, the heavily biased review stands.
O, is for Ondaatje 2 StarsI’m going to venture out of my normal review style here, and instead do a Q & A with Hana (the, erm... MC, maybe?!)Me: Hey Hana, what’s up with you not leaving the Italian Villa despite the fact that there are corpses and mines littered everywhere and the war has ended already?Hana: I just don’t think "The English Patient" would survive the transfer and I love my independence here. I mean where else can I give an immobile man sponge baths, inject him with morphine
MC, maybe?!)Me: Hey Hana, what’s up with you not leaving the Italian Villa despite the fact that there are corpses and mines littered everywhere and the war has ended already?Hana: I just don’t think "The English Patient" would survive the transfer and I love my independence here.
I mean where else can I give an immobile man sponge baths, inject him with morphine AND play hopscotch in darkened hallways?Me: *puzzled stare* Moving on: Why do you seem to have a pseudo-sexual relationship with all the men in this book, despite the fact that one is purporting to be "like an Uncle" and another is entirely bedridden??Hana: Well, I am a woman surrounded by men, need I say more??
Die already.
Michael Ondaatje repeats a line (it appears on pages 112 and 113 of my edition) that I want to wrap myself up in and think about, write about, dream about, cry over, taste, drink in: 'If he could just walk the seven yards across the Englishman's room and touch her he would be sane.' and a few paragraphs later, 'If he could walk across the room and touch her he would be sane.'I believe it is the only repeated line in the book.
Because I want to live in my belief that this line is the soul of the book.
This feels like a classic piece of literature, one of those core foundation books taught in American Lit classes at liberal arts colleges.
Perhaps it's because of the all classical references Michael Ondaatje places in the mouths of his character the English patient.
Here is a lengthy summary if you care to know more, but I would skip it and just dive right into the book: http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/english...Though I think this is a brilliant novel, I wasn't entirely blown away.
It's too good to be lumped into with the sea of four star books I've read, many of which are quite good, but few of which attain the unearthly feeling one gets when reading The English Patient.
It just felt the right time to do the long-overdue catchup on his best-known book.
I pretty much finished in one sitting, and was totally blown away.Several World War books have already made to my all-time favorite list: Atonement, All the Light We Cannot See, Songbird, just to name a few.
The book gave more ink to the love story between Hana and Kip; it was more quiescent and evolving than the dramatic revelation between Almasy and Katharine.
The book delivered the narratives in non-linear spurs, whisking through time and location, experience and impression, apprehension and perception.
But this was exactly the unique beauty of the book.
This book is a slow moving dream-- like a great, surrounding poem. The language is unbelievably sensual and the story is like nothing you'll ever read. It is thick with emotion and description. Although somewhat laborious at parts, it's altogether disassembling (to quote the author). It takes you into the raw bleeding heart of Almasy and never lets go. It made me want to die....and then be re-born and read it again. I could not ever express how much I love love love this book.
“There are days when I come home from arid writing when all that can save me is ‘Honeysuckle Rose’ by Django Reinhardt and Stephane Grappelly performing with the Hot Club of France. 1935. 1936. 1937.” Side Note: I can understand these sentiments precisely. Whether the river of creativity expresses for an individual through the medium of words, of music, of putting together plumbing pipes, of performing intricate surgery or dance steps; no matter the form of individual creativity, music can help
“There are days when I come home from arid writing when all that can save me is ‘Honeysuckle Rose’ by Django Reinhardt and Stephane Grappelly performing with the Hot Club of France.
The characters in this novel face life-changing times during the middle to late 1930’s and early to middle 1940’s, the truest timing for the second World War. War does not begin when someone says, “We are at war.” It begins when the chess pieces are first taken out of the box and begin to be arrayed in their assigned places on the boards.Real war also doesn’t end with “checkmate”.
Villa San Girolamo: a resort of renaissance, a nunnery, a fortress, a makeshift hospital, a shelter to four scarred and broken silhouettes in darkness, a testament to the arduous effects of time and the slow decomposition of the past.
Breathing but not living.“She entered the story knowing she would emerge from it feeling she had been immersed in the lives of others, in plots that stretched back twenty years, her body full of sentences and moments, as if awaking from sleep with a heaviness caused by unremembered dreams.” “…Even the idea of a city never entered his mind.
I feel bitterly disappointed in myself for hating on this book, I don’t get the love for this book at all, why all the accolades?
I caught myself nodding off lulled by the writing or simply from boredom I’m not quite sure.
I did finish the book, but did struggle with the style of writing in particular.
I wasn’t compelled in the slightest to pick the book up, I even started feeling irritated thinking about it.
Booker prize winner and all but this book was not for me.
(He actually reminded me of E.L. Doctorow.) I enjoyed hearing him read out loud from his new book, The Cat's Table, during which he elicited a few good chuckles from the crowd.
He may just visit briefly.) Thereafter, he doesn’t like to fill his head with research.
(A character from this book was an expert at bomb disposal.)The shame I felt sitting in the audience!
Oh well.Once the interview concluded, I was ambivalent about getting my book signed for a variety of reasons.
But once Ondaatje sat down at the signing table, that line moved like lightning!
Still, Ondaatje, come on!
My second read of this novel, this time in English, twenty-two years later.I had some trepidations getting into it.
It's amazing that some images, little details stayed with me all this time.
I confess, the movie adaptation, which I love, did muddle my reading experience a bit, albeit not as much as I expected it.If I were to put my super critical hat on, I'd say that all the details about the different kinds of bombs and how to dismantle them could have been cut, and the ending it was, arguably, unnecessary.
Now I feel like watching the movie adaptation again.
This book appealed to me on many levels:Deserts and far flung foreign travel - tickHidden subterranean archaeology - tickEnigmatic European aristocracy - tickSpell binding tale of fate conspiring to separate two people - tickThe cosmic gulf of death lessened by the yearning of true love - tickIndependent of the other elements listed above the whole true love, star crossed lovers spiel is something that would have me running for the hills with a copy of Die Hard on Blu-ray under one arm and a copy of anything by Wilbur Smith under the other.
I am going straight down the middle on this one and giving it three stars.
I liked the beautiful use of the English language and the lovely descriptions.
I liked some parts of the story such as the chapters about Kip. I did not like the parts where with the best will in the world I could not make real sense of what was occurring (possibly nothing I think).
I did not like the love affair which seemed to have been very brief and ended very harshly.
And I always prefer books where the ending involves closure.
“The desert could not be claimed or owned–it was a piece of cloth carried by winds, never held down by stones, and given a hundred shifting names...”The same might be said of the characters in The English Patient.
He has never felt accepted by the British as a whole though he has two English friends with whom he feels very close – Ondaatje again showing us how history’s borders are arbitrary and can be individually breached.
If this book doesn't make you an Ondaatje fan, then nothing will! Wish I still had it, worth another read I'm sure.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Previous review: Down By the River Where the Dead Men Go PelecanosNext review: Erasmus of Rotterdam ZweigMore recent review: Leonard Maltin's Movie GuidePrevious library review: Life of PiNext library review: Americanah
"Întotdeauna am purtat în mine o mare de cunoștințe. Sunt unul dintre oamenii aceia care, lăsați singuri într-o casă, se duc direct la rafturile cu cărți, iau un volum și îl sorb cu nesaț. Astfel istoria pătrunde în noi.""Nu-i vrea decât frumusețea luminoasă, teatrul de expresii. Vrea mărunta și tainica privire dintre ei, cea mai restrânsă rază vizuală, deosebirile dintre ei așezate alături, ca două pagini lipite într-o carte închisă."
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here.  He lies in the room surrounded by pale maps. He is without Katharine. His hunger wishes to burn down all social rules, all courtesy.Her life with others no longer interests him. He wants only her stalking beauty, her theatre of expressions. He wants the minute and secret reflections between them, the depth
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge.
I've had this book for about five years.
That sounds like it should be interesting, but in the first third of the book, the characters drift without purpose, swimming through the heavy-handed prose like sluggish fish.
The story doesn't really get interesting until the last two thirds of the story, where the eponymous English patient finally tells his story of espionage and doomed romance.Not really my thing.
Ondaatje moves lithely through the inner voices of each character: Hana, the young Canadian nurse; Caravaggio, the thief; Kip, the sapper; and the mysterious eponymous English patient.What I loved most about this book was seeing, especially near the end, how each character, though stranger to one another, had such a profound effect on each other's lives.
It is when he is old that Narcissus wants a graven image of himself."“A man in a desert can hold absence in his cupped hands knowing it is something that feeds him more than water.”"But I am a man whose life in many ways, even as an explorer, has been governed by words.
That’s not even touching on the way in which Ondaatje can make a foreign world one that feels familiar, as if the reader themselves has travelled the lands about which he writes.Then again, I can’t ignore a mid-book dalliance into Cairo that was near nonsensical to me on my first read-through.
For a book that I almost gave up, and one that necessitated a break with something lighter, I think I’m better for having read The English Patient.
I may not have a strong grip on all the nuance of The English Patient, but I like a book that isn’t always easy, and one that almost demands a second reading somewhere down the line.
Poetic and beautifully written, as if Ondaatje didn't write but painted each chapter. Unfortunately I have read the book after watching the movie, I wish I read the book first.A haunting love story, I have read years ago but still affects me today. One book makes Ondaatje a writer you can never forget.
Toward the end of the book, during the climax, when he heard the US had dropped two atomic bombs on Japan, he became enraged.
In the quiet of that storm, he said they wouldn't use a bomb like that on a non-brown nation, or they wouldn't have used it if Japan wasn't brown.
It goes something like this : --------This country is only two hundred years old, and already we've had ten major wars.
That's our new job in the world, bombing brown people.
Iraq, Panama, Grenada, Libya, you got some brown people in your country, tell them to watch the fuck out or we'll goddamn bomb them!
It’s not just the personal lives and histories of the English patient, Hanna, Caravaggio and Kip. All the people from their past, some living, some dead, seem a part of the story as well, a characters in their own right.
Her story is at times told from the third person narrative, at times revealed through her thoughts, but sometimes it is recounted to other characters, such as Caravaggio and Kip. The English’s patient’s history is probably the busiest one, and is appropriate as he is the oldest one.
It starts with the patient recounting fragments of his personal life to Hana, but soon he recounts his past to other characters as well.
