https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100065.As_a_Driven_Leaf
But the meat-and-potatoes of it are stellar.Perhaps one of the quintessential works of Jewish Fiction, As a Driven Leaf was written by Rabbi Milton Steinberg, who was mostly an historian.
This was his first foray into writing fiction, and in this book Rabbi Steinberg demonstrates a mastery not only of talmudic folklore, but also of Greco-Roman society, as well as the philosophies of both.
Using the little information the Talmud gives us about him, Steinberg weaves a 400+ page tale about a tormented man, struggling between his Jewish culture and the Roman beliefs he eventually espoused.
Born to a father who rejected the Jewish faith and embraced Greek thought and motherless from an early age, he is taught to read Greek and appreciate pagan philosophies.
One might begin to think that Steinberg is encouraging Elisha’s pursuit, especially when he is desperate for answers, but others are so fearful of even his questions he cannot find a safe way to work out his faith within the context of the community of his fellow sages.
I first read this novel before I studied Talmud, so I didn't realize it was based on actual Jewish texts.
I was fascinated by Steinberg's descriptions of life in Roman Palestine, especially how the Jews lived, since there wasn't any other Jewish historical fiction from this time period.
I wasn't so happy with the ending, never quite understanding why Elisha had to completely reject his religion when he couldn't reconcile it with Hellenism.
Yet Steinberg leaves this crucial scene out of "As a Driven Leaf" so we never understand what set Elisha on his difficult path.
But as I read it that first time, I found myself becoming slowly convinced that the novel was far more than a mere story, that its central drama--a conflict between religious and pagan ideas, between faith and reason, between postulates of creed and science, as experienced by the early Talmudic sage Elisha ben Abuyah--was emblematic not only of all Jewish history but probably of Milton Steinberg himself.
The period is later -- the early second century -- and the story deals with Elisha ben Abuyah, Jewish rabbi, a dissenter whose life was torn by internal struggles towards faith.
Let the mother go, and take only the young, in order that you may fare well and have a long life.This mitzvah takes a central role in the book, solidifying the main character's crisis of faith: Elisha ben Abuyah watches a young boy doing as G-d commands; however, instead of the promised long life, the boy falls out of the tree and dies.
Thereafter, Elisha leaves his life as rabbi.Part I of the book explores Elisha's education and rise to membership in the Sanhedrin, the highest Jewish authority in the Roman empire.
As a Jew, I enjoyed learning more about the history of my people, and this book provided great detail and very lively descriptions, although sometimes too long.
Many things in this book resonated with things that are happening to us or that we are doing to ourselves these days.
And as a reader, I found the book readable, moving and satisfying, although a little slow at some points.
All in all, I think it is an important read for Jews, for people interested in any belief or philosophy, people who fight for freedom of thought, and anyone looking for a rich and fulfilling read, intense and well written.
I read this book for a course in college, and it spoke volumes to me. An amazing historical account of the rabbinic age during Roman occupation. I have only read it once, but I remember it so fondly. Profound emotions and I have thought about it for years...
I read this back in high school a thousand years ago, as all my friends did.
One of four legendary Mishanaic-era rabbis who undertook the study of Kabbalah, Elisha Ben Abuya was the one who became a heretic.(Of the other three, it is said that one went mad, one died, and one was the great sage Rabbi Akiva.) The novel begins in 70 CE, after the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem, and ends with the Exile and Diaspora.
The writing is a bit overwrought, but Steinberg really brings this tumultuous epoch of Judaism to believable life.
It took me a while to get through this book, but I'm so glad I did!
In his book, Steinberg fictionalizes the life of Elisha, a rabbi of the Sanhedrin and sage who lived in Palestine after the destruction of the Second Temple, of whom we know little about for certain.
Elisha's struggle to put reason and logic to faith is one I think many people, including myself, can identify with.
Though the book plays fast and loose with historical fact and tradition, it was not only enjoyable to read, but gives the reader some real food for thought.
Highly recommended.
Maybe it is wrong if one is so focused on finding truth that he is blinded to the injustice and oppression going on around him.Maybe that's the key to the book.
Maybe it isn't wrong to search out religious truths, but it is wrong to be so focused on the quest for ideas and truths that we ignore the social injustices going on around us.That reminds me of something else.
I read somewhere that we shouldn't search out unanswerable questions about God. Maybe that's because it uses up our precious, limited time that we could be using to study things that we can find answers to.
"There is no Truth without Faith.
There is no Truth unless first there be a Faith on which it may be based." The paradox of the relatedness of Faith and Reason foreshadows the action which then comes full circle, as Elisha struggles not only with Faith vs.
Reason, but also with the problem of evil, with loyalty vs.
Elisha learns too late that the beautiful efflorescence of the Pax Romana for which he sacrificed everything was an accidental byproduct of power, and that we can rely only on a society which makes justice and mercy its goals.
This book helped me understand so much about the characteristics of faith, the purpose of faith and the problem of faith.
You might read that and think "the problem of faith, what is he talking about?", but this book shows, through the life of the protagonist that faith is not a part of this world.
There's nothing logical or reasonable about faith, and that's why it's so important.
If religion was something to be reasoned through, every difficulty and problem in life would boil down to a mathematical solution, but that would defeat the purpose of life.
I'm better off for having read it.
I first read this historical novel for a college course on Classical Judaism over 20 years ago, and I liked it enough to hold onto my copy through the course of several book cullings.
I just reread it for my synagogue's book club and was pleased to find it just as absorbing as I remembered it.
I enjoyed the exploration of the religious and philosophical landscape of the Roman-ruled Palestine in the 1st - 2nd centuries CE (including early Rabbinic Judaism, early Jewish Christianity, early gentile Christianity, Gnosticism, and Greek philosophy).
This is satisfying Talmud-comes-alive and Classical-philosophy-in-action fiction!
Amazing novel that revisits in a fictional storyline the early Talmudic period. The questions the book ask are relevant today and the story that encompasses the theological and philosophical undercurrent is interwoven with a beautiful and engrossing style of writing.
Started out very slow, but picked up and was an interesting way to learn about 1st century Jewish schools of thought and history.
I found As a Driven Leaf to be intellectual stimulating, historically revealing, and personally affecting.The protagonist is Rabbi Elisha be Abuyah, one of the brightest figures in the Sanhedrin (the Rabbinical decision-making body), who, together with Akiva, Simeon Ben Zoma, and Simeon Ben Azzai, according to the Mishnah, “went into the Pardes” to immerse themselves in a quest for deeper understanding of the Torah.
The Jews are an oppressed nation near the edge of the Roman Empire, struggling to preserve vestiges of their autonomy and hoping to rebuild their ruined Temple.
Moreover, Elisha ben Avuya's struggle was so great and so interesting and even so relevant to today's times.
I am merely left wondering, would Elisa ben Avuya still have become Acher had Modern Orthodoxy existed back in his time?!
Lastly, my only criticism, is that at times i felt as though steinberg were trying to get across his reconstructionist judaism agenda, and while it did seem to mimic elisha's struggles, i couldnt help but wonder if Steinberg was transferring his own woes and conflicts onto this tannaitic character.
Elisha is a very sympathetic figure and for the most part the story is even handed, I think, though I was very troubled by the ending.
While I found the story to be mostly accurate I was irked by some of the modernizations and places where he clearly took liverties for the sake of fiction - Steinberg's prerogative, of course, but still a little unnerving.
Would Bruriah and R' Meir really flirt in front of guests, let alone R' Meir's teacher?
Was the depiction of R' Meir and Elisha's interaction really so realistic, it seemed at times as though R' Meir was the teacher ...
It brought to life a period in history I know little about, and dealt with the question of the foundations of faith (rational or irrational) that has been asked throughout the ages.
Engrossing read for me, as the question is very much on my mind as well.
The alterations enhanced the plot, while following the facts to strictly would probably have made the book longer and less effective.
I would probably have given it 4.5 stars if that were possible.I recommend the book to anyone even remotely perplexed by disparities of faith and reason.
Now, after spending the time digging in to Jewish life early in the ad dominum time frame, I am happy to had read this account of a rabbi who lost his faith and tried to use logic and reason to find it again.
I had hoped to learn more about the lives of Jews in the time period, but instead was pushed to test reason and also to read some incredibly accurate historical fiction about the main character (who was a true person, evidently, from the Afterword) and about the suffering.
It didn't give me, an agnostic, an reason to pick up faith after all these years, but it is an interesting journey to read about another's path to his own end.
Elisha ben Avuyah is one of my favorite Talmudic figures, so I had to read this book as soon as I learned it existed.
If I had been writing a book about his life, it would have been in a slightly different light and would have put more of an emphasis of the story where R' Meir tries to convince Elisha to get back on the derech and Elisha "proves" to him (suing Talmudic logic) that it can't be done--that scene is so tragic (in the classic sense of the word) I can't even describe it.
This book is a timeless story about the unsuccessful search for truth.
It takes place during the time of the Roman empire and tells the story about a religious Jewish man who lost his faith and went to search for truth using Euclid's method of reasoning only to find that even the laws and rules of mathematics are based on faith.
The book had its moments of sadness, but the author does an excellent job of expressing the beauty of the Jewish religion, the frustration of a lost man, and the history of the Roman empire.
To be true to one's inner voice or to live by faith in the religion to which he was born, that is the dilemma Elisha ben Abuya faces throughout his life. In his quest to gain knowledge he leaves behind his childhood home and friends and ventures to Antioch looking for a greater meaning to life and God. Don't we all question God's infinite wisdom from time to time? Is there a one of us who has not occastionally questioned the meaning of life?I found parts of the book slow going, but well worth continuing on. I enjoyed the read.
Fictional account of a Jewish rabbi questioning his beliefs in the first century Palestine .
I couldn't get through the book jacket without yawning.
But, it was for my book club so I persevered.
Like mold.
Actually, like in a way that it really made me think and think about it.
In the end, I felt that it was a book that was definitely not a "page-turner" but one that I learned so much from.
I liked how the author didn't take sides but just presented the story and question: should you renounce your faith if you don't believe in it anymore?
This is perhaps one of my favorite books ever. I read it for a history class although it's historical fiction. It takes place about 70AD and shows the role of faith in everybody's life, whether they be devout Jews or the Roman intellectual and cultural elite. I found the story fascinating from a historical standpoint and the ultimate end to the journey almost soul-shocking and, personally, testimony building. I had never thought of faith in the manner it was discussed, trying not to give away the ending because I think EVERYBODY should read it, although it's pretty long.
Very well researched and written book about historical people, places, times as the basis but fleshed out with believable fiction. Although I slogged through the middle and had to make the effort to finish it, I'm glad I read this book. Reading about how Jews might have lived amongst the Greeks and Romans was intriguing. Also the plot - that a learned, affluent, highly respected and pious Rabbi could reach a turning point in his life where he absolutely questions his religion and way of life - was thought-provoking and realistically written.
The timeless struggle between reason and faith, the need to understand, to make sense of a morality based on religion and its tenets about right and wrong, about a God-made plan for the universe and its rationality. I first read it in high school and came back to it again twenty years later, this book remains a seminal piece of who I am and an example of how there's places where faith alone is not enough and of how reason can only go so far.
I have some strongly mixed feelings about this book - the female characters seemed mere foils for the men and some of the situations and plots were overly cliched. That said, Steinberg does a great job of putting you into this world and Elisha ben Abuyah's quest. For a book that's obviously so personal, really tremendous how he didn't allow his alter-ego character to go without serious, serious flaws. Some of the religious-philosophical discussions are just fascinating.
This is a book about rabbinical Judaism around the 100 AC. It is fiction, but it was written by a rabbi and is faithful to the teachings and historical flavor of that era. It is a story of a rabbi who ultimately losses his faith in order to follow Greek reasoning only to find out in the end that Greek reasoning would lead him back to his faith. It is an amazing read and I highly recommend it for those who are interested.
This novel is very good at presenting the philosophical differences between the Hebrew and Hellenic view of life. By making the protagonist an expert in both, the author gets to make a compelling argument for each world view. I am only giving this book 3 stars because I found it lacking as a work of literature. The dialogue, in particular, seemed rather forced, as did the "love story".
