https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1547992.Selected_Poems
. .from Residencia en la Tierra, I (1933)from I--Alianza (Sonata) / Alliance (Sonata)--Caballos de Los Sueños / Dream Horses--Débil del Alba / Weak With the Dawn--Unidad / Unity--Sabor / Tang--Ausencia de Joaquín / Absence of Joaquín--Colección Nocturna / Nocturnal Collection--Serenata / Serenade--Arte Poética / Ars Poetica--Sistema Sombrío / Bleak System--Sonata y Destrucciones / Sonata and Destructionsfrom II--La Noche del Soldado / The Night of the Soldier--Establecimientos Nocturnos / Nocturnal Statutes--Entierro en el Este / Burial in the Eastfrom III--Caballero Solo / Lone Gentleman--Tango del Viudo / Widower's Tangofrom IV--Significa Sombras / Signifying Shadowsfrom Residencia en la Tierra, II (1935)from I--Sólo la muerte / Death Alone--Barcarola / Barcarole--El Sur del Océano / Oceanic Southfrom II--Walking Around / Walking Aroundfrom III--Oda Con un Lamento / Ode With a Lamentfrom IV--Entrada a la Madera / The Way Into Woodfrom VI--Vuelve el Otoño / Autumn Returns--No Hay Olvido (Sonata) / There's No Forgetting (Sonata)from Tercera Residencia (1947)from I.
There are no words which can explain how beautiful these poems are! I was under the impression that Neruda writes only poems about LOVE. But what an imbecile presumption! How great and beautiful his empathetic poems of slaughtered children, blood-spilled streets, harpooned whales, ambushed bird-nests, threatening months, deep oceans, weary fishermen, and love-sick hearts are!
This:“I wantto do with you what Spring does with the cherry trees.”Buried in an early poem in this collection, “Every Day You Play,” this line won me over, made my knees weak.
It kept coming to my mind the rest of that day, and the next.
Who is able to write such a line?
But unlike a meal, these poems can be savored again and again, which is exactly what I plan to do.
This along with 20 songs of desperation is my favourite and is absolutely beautiful.
Whether it is about Macchu Pichu or soldiers or about love, his mastery of language and the music of words is mesmerising.
The petals of the ocean contend with a planet's pulsation.The underseas granaries tremble.A gloss on the sea-lettuce poises its menace,a swimming and swarming of schools;the mesh of the net-cord, ascending,draws up only a fish scale's extinction of lightningone wounded gradation of distancein the crystal's accomplished perfectionThis collection was carefully and wonderfully translated by Ben Belitt and includes the original Spanish on the left pages for comparison.

Apenas medio puñado de palabrasTerminé hoy con la antología. La selección es amplia, eso es bueno, da perspectiva, posibilidad de asomarse con calma. No conecté del todo con la propuesta de Neruda. Me pareció por momentos miope, por momentos ebrio. La miopía y la ebriedad son los males del siglo. ¿De qué siglo? Qué se yo, de alguno. Quizás vuelva luego para hablar de la "Residencia en la tierra" que es bárbaro, o de "Canto general", que oscila entre la genialidad y el desamparo. No sé. Quizás luego. Hoy me vence el cansancio.
সব দেশের কবিতাতেই বোধহয় "সনানের জলে বাষপে মাখো জল" কিসিমের ফাঁকা আওয়াজ থাকে। নেরুদার, বিশেষতঃ রেসিদেনসিয়া এন লা তিয়েরার সময়ে, এই ধরনের কাজ একটু বেশি। এর উপর আছে আমাপোলা আর সেরেসোর, মানে পপি গাছ আর চেরী ফুলের আলাপ। এইগুলি হচছে বিদেশীদের আননদ ভৈরবী পড়তে দেয়ার মতো, বরষাপীড়িত ফুল আপনি সপেনীয় নারীরে কীভাবে বোঝাবেন!নেরুদারে ভালো লাগে, তার সপেন কেমন ছিলো কবিতাটার জনয। কেউ যদি লিখে দিয়ে যাইতো, কেমন ছিলো বাংলাদেশ। চারদিকে আহাজারি, চারদিকে বিপদ। আমি ছুটি চাইছিলাম খোদা।
সব দেশের কবিতাতেই বোধহয় "স্নানের জলে বাষ্পে মাখো জল" কিসিমের ফাঁকা আওয়াজ থাকে। নেরুদার, বিশেষতঃ রেসিদেন্সিয়া এন লা তিয়েরার সময়ে, এই ধরনের কাজ একটু বেশি। এর উপর আছে আমাপোলা আর সেরেসোর, মানে পপি গাছ আর চেরী ফুলের আলাপ। এইগুলি হচ্ছে বিদেশীদের আনন্দ ভৈরবী পড়তে দেয়ার মতো, বরষাপীড়িত ফুল আপনি স্পেনীয় নারীরে কীভাবে বোঝাবেন!নেরুদারে ভালো লাগে, তার স্পেন কেমন ছিলো কবিতাটার জন্য। কেউ যদি লিখে দিয়ে যাইতো, কেমন ছিলো বাংলাদেশ। চারদিকে আহাজারি, চারদিকে বিপদ। আমি ছুটি চাইছিলাম খোদা।
Incredible beauty in these poems. And what a powerful trip, to be transported into Neruda's wild, naturalistic imagination. No technology, only biology and raw nature.

This book allows you to see how his poems progressed over the years. They begin in 1924 and end in 1967. He selected these poems himself for the book. It shows his voice in everything surronding him. Very rich, colorful and moving!
Es un libro que siempre leo, generalmente algunos poemas sueltos pero este año lo relei entero por reencontrarme con Neruda y con mi adolescencia
ode to my socks is probably one of the most comforting, wooly poems you will ever read in your life.
I had forgotten how much I loved Neruda and it was so refreshing to read more of his poetry that are not love poems, though I love them as well. And I think I need to read more of his poetry that is focused on war, Latin America, etc. because to a degree they are all about love just not all about women.
Pablo Neruda, I picked up this because my boyfriend took him as an inspiration :) I respect and like my boyfriend's work a lot, and so I dove right in.
However, because people try to copy him all the time, my view was tainted.
I could not fully appreciate his work because of all the people who are trying to copy him, oh god, it hurt me.
It hurt me because the familiarity of each stanza, the way people scrape up this man's work, it just warped it all.
Like you trying to read some beautiful work and like you just remember how others butchered this style.
Such beautiful poetry. Accessible enough to make a non-poetry fan engaged, yet so swiftly and intricately written the poems have ceaseless interpretations. The language is so wistful yet precise, so perfectly parsed (and translated). Though Neruda was a misogynist, his poetic ability is undeniable. Shame he was that way.
BEING BORN IN THE WOODS"When the rice withdraws from the earththe grains of its flour,when the wheat hardens its little hip-joints and lifts its face of a thousand hands,I make my way to the grove where the woman and the man embrace,to touch the innumerable seaof what continues....Lives resting beside my clothes like parallel dovesor contained in my own existence and in my lawless soundin order to return to being, to lay hold on the air denuded of its leafand on the moist birth of the soil in the wreath: how longcan I return and be, how long can the odourof the most deeply buried flowers, of the waves most finelypulverized on the high rocks, preserve in me their homelandwhere they can return to be fury and perfume?..."Leaning into the afternoons "...Leaning into the afternoons I fling my sad netsto that sea that is thrashed by your oceanic eyes.The birds of night peck at the first starsthat flash like my soul when I love you.The night gallops on its shadowy mareshedding blue tassels over the land.
Beautiful. The English translation brilliantly conveys Neruda’s writing genius. I found myself sighing at 4am and thinking of cicadas, life, and love. It’s something you have to read more than once in your life.
Relentlessly stunning. A collection to savour, to love, and to remember.
So beautiful, Neruda never fails to bring me to tears and awe. His actions and moral failures sadden me, it's hard to think that someone who can write something like this can also be so so horrible.
It would be difficult for me to say which of his poems are my favorites, and it is probably futile to try.This present collection of some of Neruda’s poetry is a bilingual edition with a fine introduction and with English translations by four excellent poets.
I found the English on the pages facing the original Spanish helpful when I required assistance with vocabulary, but the Spanish itself is wonderful and of most delight, and those with a reading knowledge of Spanish will probably prefer to stick to that.OK, I confess that I do indeed have one favorite poem.
Kedua, saya selalu memberi lima bintang untuk karya-karya yang tak tergantikan, baik karena ia lahir berkat faktor sejarah (yang tak mungkin terulang) maupun karena kekhasan personal penulisnya yg amat menonjol dan orisinal, atau karena keduanya.
Kumpulan surat Kartini "Habis Gelap Terbitlah Terang" adalah contoh karya yang tak tergantikan karena faktor sejarah yg tak mungkin terulang.
Tapi mereka tak mungkin mengulang momen sejarahnya--kurun waktu di mana surat-surat itu ditulis pada tempat dan waktu yg tepat sehingga, ketika kumpulan surat itu diterbitkan di kemudian hari, ia menjadi sumber inspirasi, memiliki daya gugah dan kekuatan sejarah.
Sajak-sajak Neruda, pada sisi lain, bagi saya memiliki aura personal yg kuat, seakan-akan sajak-sajak seperti itu tak mungkin ditulis oleh orang lain kecuali dia.

This is an interesting edition in that it has the original Spanish on one side of the page and the English translation on the other which allows the read to move from the original to the translation and vice-versa while reading.Neruda's poetry is original and fresh. His imagery is redolent of his homeland, of Chile in all its wild glory. His subjects are varied, from love poetry to simple nostalgia for his homeland. The Spanish original is sonorous and musical, the English translation lucid and explanatory.Well worth a read.
قرأتُه بالعربيّة، و كما يقولون: الشِّعر و قبل أن يصبح ثِمارَ اللغة، هو أساسًا ماؤها و سمادُها. و هكذا هو بابلو نيرودا." سجينٌ أنا وراءَ بابٍ مفتوح و العالم يفتح ذراعيهطالبٌ حزينٌ أنا، ضائعٌ في الشّفق"***"رقدتُ في فراشٍ لم يعد لي و من فرط الإعياء؛ رقدت كلوحٍ من الخشبو حينما استيقظت، شعرت بعذاب سقوط المطر شيءٌ ما كان يفصُلني عن دمِيخرجتُ، مصدومًا، إلى الطريق فأدركتُ( لأنني كنت أنزف دمًا)أنّ جذوري قد اجتُثّت"***"المزارع السّماوية تُصيب المرء بالشلل في غمار طلاوة أكاذيبها"
Nothing like a dual language book to give you a sense of the beauty of both English and Spanish. After reading various of his poems there is a line that comes back to me over and over again with a feeling of sweet depression: "Un sabor que tengo en el alma me deprime"
I only wish I knew Spanish, so I could read Neruda poems in their native tongue. For me, I find him such a romantic. His poetry can bring tears, smile, is simply written and profound all at the same time.
PABLO NERUDA IS AMAZING HE IS MY FAVOURITE POET EVER
Might be the greatest poetry collection I've read. His voice is so genuine and definite and moving.
It has side-by-side versions of each poem in Spanish and English so its thickness as an object is slightly deceptive.
Poetry in translation is always an oddity.
I wish I could read them in the original Spanish and reach for my own translation, which would probably be worse but it would be mine.
Neruda's poetry is sometimes hard to understand.
Sometimes it is simple but always there are lines and images that make one gasp and this selection makes me want to read everything he wrote.
I wish I could hear these poems read out loud, which I think is the way poetry should be heard.
