https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1508869.Remote_People
is, I believe the only course in the world which posts a special rule that the player may remove his ball by hand from hippopotamus footprints.
Now and then he varies his walk with a detour across the golf links and it is then that the local rule is brought into force.P173, on the train from Albertville to Kabolo: It is perhaps fair to remark that the shower-bath was not, nor apparently had been for some time, in working order; but I have long ceased any hope for a railway carriage that will offer a tolerable water system.
Waugh's assignment in Abyssinia in 1930 provided the raw material for two of his fine novels - Black Mischief, and Scoop.
The last we saw of him was a figure stumbling after us and waving his arms.'Passages like this demonstrate Waugh's consummate skill as a reporter.
Waugh does not criticise them for this ('it is perfectly natural that the cheaper newspapers should aim at entertainment rather than instruction, and give prominence to what is startling and frivolous over what is important but unamusing or unintelligible'); however he finds it disappointing that the inventions are frequently less interesting than the reality.
Waugh is, as usual, rather acid and condescending.
He doesn't take anybody seriously, himself included.
However, IMO, if anybody ever needed a little historical cutting down to size (sorry, bad phrasing considering his height) it is Haile Selassie, and so far Waugh's description of Selassie's coronation is really funny.After finishing the entire book, I would say that if you are really interested in the regions he travels through, it's a funny book and will offer another view of many familiar East African characters.
But his constant mockery does get a little grating by the end.
I wanted to kick this guy. I know, 1930s, different view, different ways. Blah, blah, blah. But Waugh is condescending - both towards Africans and Europeans. Ironic, mostly towards others, rarely towards himself. Completely insensitive when it comes to African peoples. And, of course, colonialists are awesome and they are doing locals a favor by messing with their affairs. Light of civilization and other stuff - not a single critique word is articulated by Waugh. Summary of this book is, basically - great English, funny locals, weather so bad. My race so superior. Ugh.
Evelyn Waugh goes to Ethiopia for the coronation of Hailie Salassie -- great stuff. Not particularly PC, however, so do not read if you are offended by early 20th century western attitudes towards other cultures. Fine book.
*Win-win!“...the A.D.C.s doing all the polite drudgery that makes most picnics hideous…” (137).“No one reading a book about smart people in London or Paris takes them as representing the general life of the country; but it is exactly this inference which is drawn when a book is written about smart people in Kenya” (138).“But, of course, it is futile to attempt to impose any kind of theological consistency in politics, which are not an exact science but, by their nature, a series of makeshift, rule-of-thumb, practical devices for getting out of scrapes” (138).“It is idle to pretend that I maintained a dignified calm” (176).
He is both a master observer and one of the great prose stylists of the 20th Century.
There are others: Israel in the time of Saul, the Scotland of Shakespeare’s Macbeth, the Sublime Porte of Constantinople as one sees it revealed in the dispatches of the late eighteenth century, but it is in Alice only that one finds the peculiar flavour of galvanized and translated reality, where animals carry watches in their waistcoat pockets, royalty paces the croquet lawn beside the chief executioner, and litigation ends in a flutter of playing-cards.
How to recapture, how retail, the crazy enchantment of these Ethiopian days?Remote Peoples is stronger and less dated that the account of his later trip, Waugh in Abyssinia, which he also used to forge that his great satire of fake news, Scoop.
"Remote people" is the story of the coronation of Ethiopia's last emperor Haile Selassi in 1930, seen through the eyes of British journalist and author Evelyn Waugh.
It's a fascinating account, colorfully written and also includes chapters on his subsequent travels to Aden, Kenya, Zanzibar, the Belgian Congo and South Africa.
I had been looking for this book ever since my posting in Ethiopia (2005-2007).
I only found expensive copies online, but finally I got my copy for a few euros in a small second hand bookshop in The Netherlands alongside with Waugh's sequel on Ethiopia, "Waugh in Abyssinia", which I am going to read soon!
This is a typically unsympathetic view of Africa and Africans from the 1930s. The most readable part is the chapter on the Coronation of Emperor Haile Selassie. The other half of the book is a journal of a tour through other East African countries -- mostly devoted to the goodness of the colonizers, complaints about the heat and food etc.
Quite enjoyable. Not one word in excess. Precise and funny descriptions (we should remember that Waugh made this trip in 1930). And above all, he never tries to show off - it's always the country or the rest of the people who are the leading characters. So far, Evelyn Waugh has never disappointed me.
it was alright.
Reading in WAUGH ABROAD: COLLECTED TRAVEL WRITING (Everyman)
