https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/853201.Inside_the_Third_Reich
Inside the Third Reich is a lengthy - in my edition, seven hundred pages, not including notes, bibliography or index - memoir written by Albert Speer, focusing on the years between 1933 and 1945 when he was Hitler's architect, his Minister of Arms and Munitions, and probably one of the closest things Hitler had to a friend.At many points it's not an easy book to read - not because Speer goes into any detail about the mass killings or the conditions in the concentration camps, but because of the detail which he goes into about the construction and requisition projects which formed so much of his work at the time, the repetitive ways in which he documents tea-time with Hitler.
This is not a book for the easily disturbed, but it's vital to not only history, but also to humanity. Inside the Third Reich spreads the word loud and clear that the horrors of the Holocaust did happen, that millions were led to their demise because of it, and that we can't let this truth be swept under the carpet if we don't want it to happen again in other forms.
However, the book provides an intriguing portrait of Hitler and, surprisingly enough, just as intriguing a portrait of Speer, a shiftshaping chameleon who, much like I and my friends, left college with no idea what to do with himself, had no real connections, and was having trouble finding a career, who seemingly stumbles into the service and inner circle of one of Adolf Hitler.
Whether this picture of what happened is simplified on Speer's part or not, it is still an intriguing read, especially since he denies prior knowledge of the Holocaust only to have a letter of his be unearthed in which he acknowledges having heard Himmler's Posen speech in which he talked about exterminating the Jews.
It is very interesting to read this book in all of these contexts.
When I was a boy most of us admired the Nazis for their aesthetic: the rallys, the marches, the uniforms, the insignia.
The first grownup book I ever read was probably The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.Albert Speer, along with Hitler himself, a closet decorator, was substantially responsible for the much-admired Nazi aesthetic.
I may have read Albert Speer's memoirs with a cynical eye but to me all I heard were the self centered and egotistical banterings of another one of Hitler's entourage.Speer says multiple times that Hitler had a magnetice or magical hold over him but only once does he say that he should have looked deeper into who he was blindly following.
I think that Hitler rubbed Speer's ego so much that he never really cared about anything else.
To me this book had so much ego behind the words I found it hard to believe - cynic that I am.
"You've gone completely insane!"Some sections are truly a master-class in deception and self-deception:Ich gebe die Antwort nicht mehr, mit der ich die Fragenden, vor allem aber mich selber so lange zu beruhigen versuchte: daß im System Hitlers, wie in jedem totalitären Regime, mit der Höhe der Position auch die Isolierung und damit die Abschirmung wächst; das mit der Technisierung des Mordvorganges die Zahl der Mörder abnimmt und damit zugleich die Möglichkeit größer wird, nicht zu wissen, daß die Geheimhaltungsmanie des Systems Grade des Eingeweihtseins schafft und damit einem jeden Gelegenheit zur Flucht vor der Wahrnehmung des Unmenschlichen offenhält.Ich gebe alle diese Antworten nicht mehr, denn sie versuchen, dem Geschehen in Advokatenmanier zu begegnen.
The book operates at a number of levels: firstly, it is a fascinating history of the politics and economics of National Socialism; secondly, it is a slightly boring description of armaments production; thirdly, it is a compelling character analysis of Hitler and finally, most uncomfortably, it is Speer's attempt to reconcile his actions with his conscience.The book is rich in anecdotes: Hitler's rage at Jesse Owen's win at the 1938 Olympics; Hitler's snobbish pride at being courted by the English aristocracy, including a pre-war visit to his Bavarian summer palace from the disgraced Duke and Duchess of Windsor; Hitler's paranoia towards his inner circle who "night after night had to watch trivial operetta movies and listen to endless tirades on Greek temples, the Catholic Church, diet recipes, and police dogs."I found the most compelling aspect of the book to be Speer's delight in Hitler's patronage, even to the extent that he ignored Germany's descent into barbarism: "On November 10th 1938 I drove past the smouldering ruins of the Berlin synagogues.
What I do know was that Speer, while not a very willing participant, did try and make the work and living conditions better for the Jews, Poles, Slaves, Ukrainians and others working within the industries under his control, especially after his appoointment as Minister of Armaments in 1942, effectively taking over Organization Todt.The best examples are the V-2 rocket facility at Nordhausen (French Jews), and the Ferdinand Porsche factory (building Tiger I and II tanks) where he ordered the facility directors to increase their caloric intake, provide warmer clothing, and give them better living conditions.
I read it for hours nonstop.The story that Speer relates here of his life and career in the Third Reich, first as Hitler's architect, and later as the Minister for Armaments and War Production (1942-1945) is gripping and compelling.
This memoir does not read like a dry retelling of historical events.
All of these events may seem incredible as Speer describes them.
But they happened, and in reading "INSIDE THE THIRD REICH", you see how it was that Germany was led down the path to destruction by its political leadership.
Fabulous autobiography of Speer's life inside Hitler's Third Reich, written whilst serving his 20 yr prison sentence in Spandau Prison.This book has been criticised by many, who accused Speer of having diluted the part he played in helping construct a Nazi empire and building an efficient War Machine when appointed by Hitler as Minister of Armaments of the Reich.It is possible that Speer might have wanted to instill a better image of himself but it does not make the book any less insightful or Speer less likeable.His behaviour at the Nuremberg Trials is recorded in other literature on WWII as having been extremely co-operative and for having been the only prisoner to have acknowledged the trials as necessary.Yet when reading his accounts from the rise of Hitler to the end of the war, it is very easy to understand how things got so out of hand and how it all came to such an end.
Absolutely fascinating.Since this two-word review accumulated 7 likes somehow, I would like to add more but there's not much to add really. This is a truly unique book. Speer provides a more intimate and revealing portrait of Hitler than any other biographer could ever accomplish. No other book about Hitler rivals it, much less his fellow genocidaires Stalin and Churchill.
Though Speer accepts responsibility as part of the Nazi leadership, it is difficult to believe that he truly did not know of the Holocaust, after so many years as Hitler's personal friend, after practically running the wartime economy, after rising almost to 'second man in the state,' after benefiting from concentration camp and other forced labor in his own work.
I think Speer could have achieved that integration if he had chosen to address the effects of Nazi policy and of his own work as Minister of Armaments on others as well and it's a shame that he doesn't discuss the moral issues in more detail (why did the appalling treatment of forced laborers or the regime's undermining of democracy never make him question its legitimacy as a whole, for example?).
Albert Speer's autobiography is an incredible portrait of the inner circle of Hitler's Nazi Germany, written by a brilliant, philosophical and insightful man.
The recreation of how his career as an architect picking up some government commissions led to becoming arms minister of Germany, and the subsequent events is fascinating in the extreme.
of the inner circle of Nazi leadership and the insanity, inconsistency and downright stupidity that Hitler represented in destroying not only other nations, but also Germany itself.
The last quarter of the book, in its first-person illustration of how the end came for Germany, evokes an incredible pathos found only in the best drama.
Un nazist cu față umană Mi-aduc aminte că, pe vremea lui Ceaușescu, nu erau puțini aceia care nu-l considerau pe marele cîrmaci responsabil pentru existența lor umilă, fiind convinși pe de o parte că nu e la curent cu suferințele îndurate de popor și pe de alta că e dus de nas de nevastă-sa, care ar fi adevărata sursă a tuturor relelor. Fără îndoială că această credință naivă a exploatat-o Iliescu atunci cînd le-a promis, în 1990, celor care-au mîncat salam cu soia, un comunism adevărat, un com
Dacă cineva simțea uneori că-i încolțește îndoiala în suflet, se liniștea cu gândul la succesele noului regim și la respectul pe care acesta și-l câștigase chiar în opinia publică internațională, predispusă mai degrabă să critice decât să laude.Si totuşi, acest nazist educat și extrem de ambițios, care la 32 de ani se apropia deja vertiginos de vîrful ierarhiei sociale, care a fost poate, așa cum el însuși recunoaște, singurul prieten intim al lui Hitler, ar trebui să ne înspăimânte chiar mai mult decît ceilalți fanatici din jurul dictatorului, un Goebbels, un Goering, un Himmler & comp., tocmai din pricina narcisismului său absolut, a minții sale reci și calculate, a unei inteligențe puse atît de bine în slujba interesului personal încît l-a ajutat să supraviețuiască atît intrigilor de curte din marele Reich cît și procesului de la Nürnberg.
Let us dance once more the Thousand-Year Jig, all the way back to that street in Munich!" The very suggestion is asinine, and even if it were true, the only thing worse than Ayn Rand is perhaps a thinly veiled retelling or ReRanding as they know it at the Objectivist Institute.It is interesting to watch Speer go from visionary (in terms of at least size and visage, if not actual style) architect to #1 industrial man in the Reich basically because he was eating wurst with Hitler when the old Minister's plane blew up.
A fascinating look into the workings of Hitler's regime--so frustrating to see how disorganized and easy to paralyze, if only one had the right information at the right time. It took a long time to get through, but worth it!
Many a times Speer has indeed committed mistakes and in plain language, behaved like a chicken, but he had the guts to accept his faults in the Nuremberg Trial of course when Hitler was no longer alive.At least in this area, as Speer rightly points out, Dr.Goebbels had a better sense of manipulating the Fuhrer, but for all the wrong needs.
Speer goes into a very detailed narration, graphs, footnotes etc, but most of the book shows how when the dictator was successful, his so called inner circle loved to be in his favor and even plotted against each other and pulled each other down, but when the regime fell , their insincerity knew no bounds.
Unas memorias diferentes que nos muestran a un Adolf Hitler más cercano e incluso íntimo que en nada tiene que ver con el presentado en las grandes obras que lo retratan. Una lectura muy, muy recomendable.
Speer was a key figure under Hitler, yet at the same time he was rather an outsider, a technocrat with little understanding of the ideological basis for the government in which he made his strong mark as armaments minister.The book is very well written and thus an easy read.
Still, Speer writes that he probably was the closest thing to a friend Hitler had during his very lonely years as Fuehrer.The book gives elaborate detail to Hitler's personality in various situations, including candid settings.
In fact he doesn't delve into the topic of ideology at all in this 700 page book (the rest is noted and index).
Albert Speers perspective is refreshing as he was not strictly (in his own words) a nazi ideaologist, whether this Is to be believed or not is up to the reader.
The book demonstrates through his successes that he was a man of great intelligence, a gifted organiser, with a keen analytical and thoroughly logical mind but there is correspondingly less emotional or personal reflection.
But his reasoning for this unfortunately simply seems to be the best logical conclusion of the same analytic and robotic mind.A fascinating read.
The history of the Third Reich is replete with unanswerable questions in addition to its unimaginable cruelty.
However I found one question particularly perplexing after reading The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich and Inside the Third Reich.
Yes there was at least one attempt on Hitler’s life and constant talk among potential conspirators, but the norm was deference to Hitler and his wishes even when those around him knew he had become completely irrational and his direction was leading to personal and national disaster.
Were they mesmerized by Hitler’s charismatic personality?
I want to keep my distance from a work like this because although I feel Speer is mostly an honest narrator, his clear, somewhat banal account of the Third Reich, Hitler, and his own activities read like a generic memoir, somehow perverting the madness of the time—the destruction, inhuman cruelty, and the quest for absolute power.
By giving us this account, Speer affirms that for the most part the atrocities of the the Third Reich were carried out by otherwise normal, almost boring men, like himself, who were tasked with a mission and carried it out to the best of their abilities.
Speer was an architect and a technocrat who was swept up with passion for his work to the point that he did not care about the monstrous evil he was participating in.
Most of this book is taken up with the workaday tasks that Speer had to perform for the Reich, which included long hours, abandonment of family, and total devotion to Hitler.
Hannah Arendt has famously described the "banality of evil" -- this book provides a look inside that banality.
This book should cause self-reflection for all people who are part of large organizations and do not bother to look into what those organizations are doing.
He was conscripted at the end of the war, when Germany drafted all able-bodied males between 16 and 60 years of age.
"Pim" died in 2012 so I was privileged to take a few of his books home with me.
But, I do respect the man for standing up at Nuremberg and condemning the atrocities that the Nazis performed upon the innocent masses in those camps, and for the fact that he seems to have done a lot of soul-searching during the 20 years that he was in prison.I had always planned to read this book.
It made it very special for me to read "Pim's" copy of the book.
Speer's book is important, well-written, and offers a unique perspective.
Speer is, himself, a wily narrator who carefully chooses what to omit.
Having read a number of books on Speer, I have to say that I am more of the opinion of van der Vat's The Good Nazi: The Life and Lies of Albert Speer than of Sereny's Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth.
One doesn't want to believe that one could be charmed by a man who was responsible for what Speer clearly had done, but the truth is otherwise.
And as a reader, one can be charmed by Speer.
Fascinating book but I found myself wondering if Herr Speer was really the hero he made himself out to be.
Did he really single-handledly prevent the scorched-earth decree from Hitler from being carried out?
Did he really face up to Hitler and say "the war is lost" and "you have no right to ask the German people to suffer because YOU lost the war"?
But this much is sure, Herr Speer gave us a detailed look at the top level of Nazi government in both victory and in defeat.
I feel like I personally knew Hitler, Goering, Goebbels, Borman, Hess, et al ad infinitum.
A fascinating glimpse into the mind of Hitler's architect, who would eventually be responsible for prolonging the war far beyond what anyone predicted.
Written while spending most of the rest of his life in prison for war crimes, he describes how he was drawn in, what it was like working with the leaders of the Nazi regime, and their downfall.
It's not surprising that he tends to paint himself as more moral than most--yet at the same time he was the only one on trial who ever admited guilt or shame for what he did...and it's for this reason, most likely, that he avoided a death sentence and was eventually released from prison.
Speer gives us insight into the thinking of two people: (1) himself, and (2) Adolf Hitler. (1) He is somewhat ashamed of not knowing more about what was going on. However, he doesn’t beat himself up much about it either. He merely says he should have known more about politics. He was enthralled by the magnetic personality of AH, but he was most interested in his own opportunity to build, based on AH’s confidence in him, and AH’s access to money to do the building. This desire and opportunity led
Speer was set to return on a plane also occupied by Dr. Todt, head of Armaments.
(3)	The post-war USSBS put the effect of Allied bombing on German production at 9%.
Speer pinpoints 12 May 1944 as the date when a new era in the air war began: it meant the end of German armaments production.
As the war was being lost in the later stages, Speer was the one that argued with AH and told him it would be counterproductive to implement a scorched earth policy (destroy all industry) as the Germans retreated.
20 Jan. 2018I read this book when I was in High School in the early 70s.My memories of that read are that it was incredibly boring and not well written, despite my having a pretty intense interest in the topic at the time.Speer wrote the book while serving a long prison sentence in Spandau prison after his war crimes convictions at the Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal.I don't remember that many of the details, except some of the pictures of the buildings he designed for Hitler and his Third Reich - very Roman-grandiose style.
I can’t give this book a rating and perhaps that’s a cop out but how do you rate a book like this?
Several folks have spoken recently about the need to read this book given current events.
There are innumerable books on Nazi Germany and its leaders but few lay bare the inside evils with such thorough first hand accounting as Speer.
In terms of the book itself, it is a critical read for understanding how easy it is to fall under the sway of evil and to follow tasks to the bitter end.
Please also read:https://www.newyorker.com/books/secon...
