https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12073.Philosophical_Investigations
But because I wish to give a short summary of some of Wittgenstein’s later views here, I will first give a little précise of the earlier work.In the Tractatus, Wittgenstein argues that language has one primary function: to state facts.
So instead of the reference to a type of object being primary, the social use is primary.This example reveals a general quality of Wittgenstein’s later thought: the replacement of the objective/subjective dichotomy with the notion of public, social behavior.Philosophers have traditionally posited theories of meaning that are either internal or external.
His English-speaking cousin takes him to a building site and manages to get him hired by Wittgenstein Construction Inc.The foreman is laying slabs.
He takes a wheelbarrow and fetches some slabs.The foreman is visibly pleased!
The foreman points to the bags of cement in the corner with the slabs.
Wang gets his wheelbarrow and comes back with a bag of cement.
"Cement!" says the foreman.
"Slab!" says the foreman, when Wang's unloaded the new cement.
"White slab - red slab", he says.
"Red slab!" he says.
Wang looks at the pile of slabs in the corner.
"Slab," says the foreman.
The ideas are complex at times, but he does all he can to make them clear.That said, I also know I’ve only skimmed the surface of this one.This is a book about meaning – it is a book about how language ‘means’ and therefore the extent to which language allows communication between people.
I think that, for me anyway, these two words are homophones in English unless I’m using ‘affect’ in the sense of affecting a pose, although the dictionary seems to imply that affect is pronounced in the same way regardless of the meaning.
Skim it quickly, then check out "Philosophical Tribulations" by Flash qFiasco and the Uncyclopedia article on Wittgenstein, which may help you appreciate the funny side of this unfinished masterpiece.______________________________________I had to try it myself.
Now suppose I say, ‘Want to raise your arm.
Only--don’t really raise it, just want to.’ Are you quite sure you know what to do in this case?
Suppose I say, ‘Want to raise your arm tomorrow.’ Now suppose I said that last week, and say it again next week; is this the same want as before, or a different one?
Αναμφίβολα η Φιλοσοφία είναι λίγο-πολύ και θέμα γούστου. Με κάποιους φιλοσόφους θα συμφωνείς και με άλλους όχι. Αντικειμενικά όμως, δύσκολα θα διαφωνήσεις με τον Wittgenstein. Πιο προσιτό και χωρίς την μαθηματική γλώσσα του "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus", το "Φιλοσοφικές Έρευνες" με απλά παραδείγματα αποδεικνύει πόσο ρευστή -επομένως και ακατάλληλη- είναι η Γλώσσα σαν εργαλείο για Φιλοσοφία.
This book is about the concept of grammar.
I have a toddler, and so I know that it can.
'Milky' means the same thing as 'bring me the milky' in our language game.
Well, Wittgenstein argues that there must be a grammar for the imperative 'milky' to be understood.
Then I give it to him and he drinks it.There is grammar because I know what to do.The real charm of Wittgenstein is that he can explain ordinary things as though we have never heard of them.
Also, he has interesting things to say about color concepts, mathematics, and the idea of a private language.
As I summarized above, Wittgenstein believes that meaning is revealed by the use of a word in social interactions, in other words through language games, the behavior of the people using the word.Consider words for what we usually think of as mental phenomena: thinking, believing, remembering, knowing, and the like.
Thus Wittgenstein gives a formidable argument that knowing consists not in any mental phenomenon, but in the behavior of giving the right answer.
But his basic point is that only when our introspected observations can be validated by being part of our interactions with other people (our language games), only then can the words have consistent and usable meanings.My quibble with this is that introspection sometimes yields more results than Wittgenstein is prepared to recognize.
after he died, his further writings were scraped together and comprise part II, loosely divided into 13 short sections plus 1 long one.
he concludes the introduction:"It is not impossible that it should fall to the lot of this work, in its poverty and in the darkness of this time, to bring light into one brain or another -- but of course, it is not likely.
I should not like my writing to spare other people the trouble of thinking.
But, if possible, to stimulate someone to thoughts of his own.I should have liked to produce a good book.
The latter as we’ve washed ashore in a (post)philosophical age that takes so much of Wittgenstein for granted, but also because his expository style can read like an amnesiac head-trauma patient attempting to reconstruct language-use from scratch, poking and prodding at kindergarten-level grammar to explore how situational semantics weaves and bends through our intricately embodied, moment-to-moment actualities -- all tempered by an uneasy nostalgia for positivist puzzles boxed in the attic, radiant antiques that gave so much (faux) luster to our mental lives.Wittgenstein wants us to detox, to scrape out the arterial plaque of “false problems.” Fundamental confusions about language-use, he fears, have staggered us into an ersatz-world of epistemic mazes and circular obstacle-courses, a bad Philip K.

Although usually coupled with the Tractatus, it is actually more representative of his thought and method.The virtue of Wittgenstein may be that with him there is no hint of metaphysical conceit or self-deception, but rather a consistent treatment of reality as, in fact, various "language games" ("language" being understood broadly to include everything from the semiotic to the symbolic, the denotative to the connotative, and "games" being understood to be intersubjective practices).
While apparently coming across to his redoubtable colleagues, including Bertrand Russell, as a genius, his actual writings are all rather easy-going, suggesting, to me at least, that we're all--or none--of us geniuses.
Čitati Vitgenštajna u okviru celokupne tradicije zapadne filozofije je kao da Odiseju počnete da čitate od poslednjih nekoliko poglavlja, preskočivši sve što se pre toga zbilo.
Kuriozitet - Čomski je razvio teoriju o dubinskim padežima (koja je posle oborena) a kod Vitgenštajna u jednom pasusu nalazimo njegovo otvoreno podsmevanje bilo kakvoj ideji dubinske gramatike, naime naš svakodnevni, površinski jezik je više nego dovoljan da iskaže sve što se može reći, ili misliti.
I daje primer u kojem mi ne stavljamo ruku u vatru, bilo da smo se pre opekli ili ne.
As a philosopher, Wittgenstein isn't terribly systematic-- rather shocking for an "analytic" thinker. I would argue that he's an original, using analytic (thought experiments), continental (literary examples), pragmatic (everyday life as a litmus test), and Nietzschean (aphoristic style, attitude problem) elements. Hell, I'm almost loathe to call it philosophy at all. It's more like a gorgeous, dense, glittering puzzle box. I guarantee that when I read it again somewhere down the line, I'll get something entirely different out of it-- Wittgenstein seems less concerned with presenting a systematic argument than in prodding the reader's mind.
To date the most overrated work of 20th century analytic thought (if one wishes to truly count the later Wittgenstein as an analytic).
Written in a fragmentary styled not seen in the traditional philosophical corpus since Spinoza, Wittgenstein often leaves the reader guessing at what he could possibly be referencing.
The work starts out quite strong as a critique of Russell and Moore, concerning their conceptions of language and its logic.
But as the work progresses, many philosophers mistakenly take the hermeneutical gap between author and reader to be a sign of Wittgenstein's genius; instead of the proper and simpler idea that Wittgenstein himself is working with a fragmentary mind.
القراءة الثالثة بعد قراءة ترجمة عزمي إسلام وبعد شوية مناوشات مع النسخة الإنجليزية، ولو قلت إني فهمت فتجنشتاين أبقى كداب :))ترجمة بنّور أجود بمراحل من ترجمة عزمي، أظن إنها لا تقارن بترجمة عزمي من الأساس، أستفدت منها بشكل كبيروتعليقات بنور ومقدمته شيء جيد جدا الحقيقة
In a world that made increasingly little sense to the people in it, narratives meant to explain and justify the course of history or the arts on a grand scale no longer seemed plausible.There is no straightforward definition of postmodernism, but Wittgenstein's piecemeal approach of language-games, his critique of the notion of ultimate grounds of justification, and his mistrust of general statements about the world or the meanings of words may be seen as characteristic of postmodern thought.In abandoning logic, Wittgenstein abandons one of the primary tools of analytic philosophy, thus breaking with the tradition established by Frege and Russell.
I was struck by Wittgenstein’s equation of language analysis with his repeated (and seemingly categorical) references to “doing philosophy.” With that term and this book, it seems as though Wittgenstein has appropriated the subject matter of philosophy and restricted it to an overly narrow focus – one that lends itself to tangible data with precisely understood terminology, all nicely aligned with scientific inquiry.
Interior data can be brought forth and expressed in the exterior world and subjected to precise uses.
One side is in German (the original text) and the other side is in English.Compared to other philosophical readings I've read in the past, I found this one a little easier to follow.
I think I had an easier time with this compared to than say Descartes because it's more modern.I liked this book mainly because it was about words and langue.
I think I like that part a little better.My only real negative part too this book is the translation.
I think this one was better translated, but at times it still felt off to me.
W was one of the most intimidating characters in the English philosophy scene.
Take a look at Wittgenstein's Poker to get just how impossible a character he was.W has influenced every significant philosopher that followed him.
Remarkable in so many ways, perhaps foremost for his turning away from the views (the picture theory) expressed in the only book published during his lifetime, the Tractatus, which made him the revered Wunderkind of Logical Positivism.
The Tractatus may be seen as a bizarre updating of Berkeley.
Russell, who wrote the introduction to the Tractatus never got it.
كيف رأى لودفيج فتجنشتاين فلسفة اللغة؟http://ida2at.com/how-did-ludwig-witt...Before readingAfter reading
. But could we also imagine a language in which a person could write down or give vocal expression to his inner experiences--his feelings, moods, and the rest--for his private use?--Well, can't we do so in our ordinary language?--But that is not what I mean.
Let us remember that there are certain criteria in a man's behaviour for the fact that he does not understand a word, that it means nothing to him; that he can do nothing with it.
And criteria for his 'thinking he understands', attaching some meaning to the word, but not the right one.
Each of us inhabits a particular language game, he claims, which channels how we see things and understand the world and our places within it.
Again, language shapes meaning and understanding and interpretation.
In the final analysis, this means that whenever we try to understand the world, it is through language, through interpretation, since we cannot directly perceive reality outside of our language.
Nonetheless, the argument about "language games," although only a small part of this book, is a provocative concept, well worth thinking about.
However, I have since come to mistrust its conclusions.
The central question in linguistics is "How is it possible for one person to understand another?" It is actually possible for people from quite different societies to come to understand each other.
Words seem to have a fairly narrow range of core meanings.
But the word "elephant" has other meanings that are not so close to the core meaning – so there are wooden elephants, baby elephants, white elephants.
This applies to “games” too.
Nearly all “games” consist of activities where one or more individuals try to overcome unnecessary problems (Suits).
علیت این امر می تواند زندگی و شخصیت استثنایی او و شمار زندگینامه ها و خاطراتی باشد که درباره او نوشته اند.
به هر حال علت دیگر آن هم می تواند این باشد که نوشته او بر خلاف سایر آثار فلسفی، به نحوی قادر به جلب نظر خواننده غیر متخصص است.این کتاب راهنما مخاطب را به مطالعه دقیق و روشن مهم ترین اثر ویتگنشتاین یعنی پژوهش های فلسفی توانا می کند.
استدلال مک گین مبنی بر این است که شیوه یگانه پژوهش ها آن را به یک اثر استثنایی ادبی و نیز فلسفی بدل می کند.
(It's only rival is likely Heidegger's Being and Time.) This is my third time reading this very technical book.
Each time I read it two things happen: 1) The focus of the book seems more narrow.
His answer: Not according to a logical superstructure but according to discrete "games", rules, and patterns.
What does a word mean?
Not according to dictionary definitions or logical relationships to objects, actions, or states-of-being.
"Do not ask, 'What does it mean?'" says Wittgenstein, but "Look and see how it is used." What does the word "board" mean?
It doesn't have a single meaning, but varies according to how it is used.
When I read this years ago, I struggled with it.
On second reading I've had a lot more peripheral material to help me grasp the ideas.
What I really wish I'd had was this:Commentary on Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations by Lois ShawverThis site not only lists the complete text, but also side-by-side commentary from Shawver.
But this layout was quite helpful in getting through some of the tougher sections.
Even when I disagreed with a notation Shawver added, the fact that the note was there was helpful in itself for clarifying my own thoughts on the lines.
Well, definitely awesome exposition, but I figured most of this out playing in the backyard when I was 12. Surely philosophy has something more to say than these largely self-evident truths? Anyone with half a brain will recognize and cherish Wittgenstein's exposition, but seriously, basic context-sensitive linguistics is something we've all considered intuitively.---Amazon 2009-02-20.
Wittgenstein understood the role that structure at a larger level could play in communication, so treat the flow of the book very deliberately.
For me, it has been a fermentative experience, and the variety of interesting bits on the mind, rule following, culture, language, and meaning still re-emerge in different contexts as I go here and there.
Whether you treat him as a skeptic or as proposing an original philosophical method (and some tidbits), a dedicating reading of this book is incredibly stimulating and rewarding, if you are willing to try to digest and apply these idea beyond the reading itself.
Philosophical Investigations - if you want to understand Wittgenstein, begin with the Blue and Brown Books.
They prepared Philosophical Investigations.
You may think that Wittgenstein is always repeating himself.
As a matter of fact, Wittgenstein himself, confessed that he needed to repeat, to copy his own wrintings again.
But this shows his way of thinking, turning arround a problem, a concept or any philosophical idea.
He wanted to see through the language, the deep grammar.
This is where he used to discover how language sometimes is misleading, and a source of pseudo-problems:we don't have a panoramic view, a clear view about ourselves, our thiking, our feeling, our own mind.
This is a hard book to evaluate. At times, I felt that Wiggentstein was the sole beacon of lucidity in a haze of philosophical muddlement. But at others, I couldn't help but think that the  Philosophical Tribulations  of a certain "Louis Witteringswine" was rather way too good of a parody.All things considered, I found the first 100 or so paragraphs to be the most informative (not incidentally, they constitute what is probably the most accessible section of the text). Elsewhere, Wittgenstein's a
This is a hard book to evaluate.
At times, I felt that Wiggentstein was the sole beacon of lucidity in a haze of philosophical muddlement.
But at others, I couldn't help but think that the 
Philosophical Tribulations
of a certain "Louis Witteringswine" was rather way too good of a parody.All things considered, I found the first 100 or so paragraphs to be the most informative (not incidentally, they constitute what is probably the most accessible section of the text).
Elsewhere, Wittgenstein's apparent inability to articulate particular theses made for many "Wait, what the fuck am I reading?" moments.But of course, this might very well change on my second slog through this text—because I really need to read it another time.
