https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953203.The_Coming_Of_Bill
Maybe 3.5 stars. While I enjoyed this early Wodehouse, it was more realistic satire than the zaniness I am used to in his more famous books! The tongue-in-cheek commentary about love versus money would make a great film I think (and Wodehouse did write some good Hollywood scripts).While I own this Kindle book, I actually listened to it via the Librivox recording.
"A funny thing, life."
Plum tries his hand at satirical social commentary.
Every word I've read by Wodehouse is enjoyable -- I like his plots and characters -- even his obnoxious Lora Delane Porter in this story. It amazes me how everyone crumbled to her words andd made me wonder if I could have stood up to her. The fact that someone finally did cheered me no end. The entire story cheered me -- I like happy endings.
"There were a 'undred fifty of us, living in shoebox in middle of road!""Cardboard box?""Aye.""You were lucky!"- Four Yorkshiremen sketch from "At Last the 1948 Show"I'm not quite sure what Plum was trying to do here: was he trying to write a serious novel of social commentary, was he perhaps working on a template for a Broadway musical?
While there are passages of classic Wodehouse "business", and the ex-pugilist Steve Dingle strives mightily to bring some sparkle to the goings-on, this novel is a very odd concoction, indeed."But you know, we were 'appy back then, though we were poor.""Because we were poor!
Much more satirical (to the point of being much less funny!) than the mainstream of his later work, this book explores many political and social themes of the time with elegantly turned phrases and Wodehouse's genius for timing.I continue to prefer books written 90 years ago and set in the present to books written now and set 90 years ago. I can't tell if its the language or the unspoken social conventions that seem so much more authentic. Maybe I'm a chronological snob. Anyway, this book is a prime example.
Well, so... Wodehouse's writing style is just the same (i.e. great). But the book is... not funny. A large majority of it is about a marriage falling to pieces. And while that theme has its own... poignancy, when combined with Wodehouse's writing, it's still not what one wants or expects when one turns to a Wodehouse book.There was a happy ending, of course, but it felt incredibly tacked-on and unrealistic.
Apparently one of the few semi serious books written by P G Wodehouse and not one his better works in my opinion. A book with eugenics as the theme was hardly going to be a bundle of laughs but when presented by typically Wodehouse characters it really didn't work for me. Neither a serious treatment of this rather sinister subject nor the sparklingly frivolous caricatures of Bertie Wooster's familiar circle.
Mrs. Porter considers Kirk a perfect husband for her perfect niece and when they eventually get married and have a child she insists that he must also be perfect, but her constant intrusion into their union becomes a major imperfection in their lives...
Eugencis meets upper crust NY socialites. Ok.
I was searching for something fluffy to read and thought I couldn’t go wrong with my good pal, Plum. How was I supposed to know he ever went in for serious writing? This book has Wodehouse’s signature humor all the way through it. But it also touches on some serious topics. It shows depth and feeling that are sprinkled throughout his other works, but never so clearly displayed. In many ways, I think it’s the master’s best work. But I also miss the silliness and am now going to find a Blandings novel or a Jeeves story to enjoy.
Even bad Wodehouse from an experimental phase still has well crafted phrases and some bits of enjoyable comedy. Sadly it also has eugenics, family strife endlessly analyzed, unpleasant in a non-comic way characters and a boring middle that lasts about 80% of the book. If you are going to read this one enjoy the first half hour because it will have to tide you over until the last 15 minutes.
Not my favorite Wodehouse by far. Mostly, I love Jeeves and Wooster. Here we have the same lovely, witty writing but the storyline slogs on and on and is 100% predictable, though it finally gets around to a satisfactory ending.
This book started out typically Wodehouse amusing and then serioused down a bit, which I was ok with. I listened to it on Librivox and the narrator had the cutest voice for Bill. I actually thought it was a less frivilous piece of work than usual but excellent because of it.
A different book (more serious but with a happy ending) compared to the usually outrageously hilarious ones by Plum.
As always, PGW is a delight to read.
The typical Wodehouse way of describing a baby (beautiful to the parents but generally giving the appearance of a boiled egg to others) is there.
I read once that Wodehouse would type up his stories and tape them up on the wall around his office.
When he wasn't typing, he'd walk from one page to another trying to find a way to improve on what he'd written.
I wondered, of course, why I'm bothering to read something that just isn't funny (although the humor cracks through here and there) and then I started looking on this as a period piece and, finally, as a satire of our own times.
I've been reading Wodehouse's light domestic comedies at bedtime the past couple months because I enjoy his predictability: the hero and/or heroine always ends up in a happy situation, although circumstances and well-meaning (and sometimes not-so-well-meaning) relatives often conspire to cause chaos.This book started out in the typical way, but Wodehouse decided to use eugenics as the strange idea that influenced his characters.
(But just wait...) The hero and heroine get married (for the betterment of the race.
But the hero is not influenced by eugenics.
It's obvious that Wodehouse thought eugenics was a terrible idea.
Keggs’ appears to realise that he is wasted in the piece and gives an unconvincing performance.The language is still fantastic, that Baby Bill, ‘as a conversationalist, perhaps the best description of him is to say he tried hard’ sums up Wodehouse’s easy manner.
Although Wodehouse has a natural talent for writing they are for writing as Wodehouse not as Dickens.As a member of Fathers 4 Justice and campaigner for Fathers Rights the story of Bill’s father being excluded from his life after he falls out with Bill’s mother Ruth should appeal to me.
Another more troubling then trendy theme also given a lot of attention in this novel is eugenics, which it is hard to get me to laugh about, and although interesting as a historical phenomenon, troubling in how many of its assertions were tacitly accepted here.
The domineering female intellectual who runs over an unlucky butler in the opening pages is a fun character, and the familiar prizefighter with a heart of gold that turns up often in Wodehouse participates, but I didn't care too much for the baby that everyone adored, or either of his parents, the hero and heroine.
The old adage that money can’t buy happiness is illustrated in this timeless tale.
The Coming of Bill takes place in the United States and I think the writer’s interpretation of Americans and the American way of life (during the first quarter of the twentieth century) is spot on.
It lacks some of that Wodehouse humor but it remains typical in an atypical sort of way.
Mrs. Porter’s belief in eugenics can bring some negative thoughts and pictures to mind but the reader must keep in mind that this narrative was first published in 1919, long before the goose-stepping Nazi’s took it to a new level.
If you can get past the vernacular misspellings and the boxing jargon that muddies much of the dialogue, you will find, as you slog through the heavy-handed constructions of character and motive, that the expository passages are made out of those elegant syntactical symphonies that we enjoy so much in Wodehouse's better-known fictions.
To put it another way, even though he has not mastered in this early work the elements of humor, Wodehouse most certainly has mastered the elements of prose style.
Die-hard Wodehouse fans will get a kick out of it, and serious collectors will note that this novel was released with two alternate titles:  Their Mutual Child  and  The Great White Hope.
I did not read reviews before I read this, though Wodehouse is my favorite author of all time.
But I was shocked to find, after the fact, that this is one of his early works.
So much so that I thought it must be a late book, when the author felt free to write closer to home.
Now that I know it's an early work, the plot gulfs and the switches in tone make more sense.
I would recommend it to Wodehouse-lovers, and i think it's still better than most, but it's not the best introduction for a non-acolyte.
The light hearted humor of Jeeves and Wooster universe and of that of Blandings Castle falls in sharp contrast with a serious, more realistic and practical work as The Coming of Bill.
It's not an all out romantic novel, which Wodehouse gave a demonstration of in The Adventures of Sally, and nor does it fall in with his unmatched, witty escapades of his other characters, but this rather appears as a heartfelt attempt at covering the troubles of a married couple who find themselves suddenly out of means of livelihood.From there on, it endeavors to trace a slowly steady development of their characters, of mental turmoils which force compromises and risks, and which, gradually, build up a tale that a reader might actually relate to.
And that, coming from the master of English aristocratic humor, is quite a refreshing drink.
G. Wodehouse I have read.
I read them all so long ago and enjoyed them so much that I have given them all 5 stars.
As I re-read them I will adjust the stars accordingly, if necessary, and add a proper review.When I first discovered P.
I'm sure that through this great site I will joyfully find at least a few I have not read, and be able to track them down.My records only began in 1982, so I do not have a note of any I read before then.
I’m sure I will enjoy re-reading them.
The Coming of Bill represents Wodehouse's attempt at a serious novel.
Much like his attempts at crime fiction, the book is not up to his usual comic standards, but highly competent nonetheless.
I would recommend it to Wodehouse fans who want to know the entire oeuvre, but if you're just looking to dip into Wodehouse, go with Bertie and Jeeves.
At times, the book feels more like a treatment for a movie than a novel.
The characters are sketched out and then left to fend for themselves at key moments.
An actor could bring the character to life, but on the page most of them remain a little flat.
This is a must-read for parents, especially fathers.
Courtship, marriage, having children, and supporting a family is the hardest, most important work there is.
I love this book because, despite difficulties and separation, Bill and his love don't give up and they, gasp, even...well, that would spoil the ending.
This is an old-fashioned, modern story.
Old-fashioned in that the tradition of family is upheld, modern in the literary sense.
Wodehouse is serious and funny and brilliant in the simplicity and traditionality of the story.
Despite his innate laziness, the call of manhood makes him something close to great.
Having noted how the reviews for this work, along with the product synopsis, all stress that this is the closest P. G. Wodehouse came to writing a serious book, I suspected that this would be a weak offering. As it happens, it turned out to be one of the author’s strongest novels.Yes, there are numerous scenes of a serious nature, but they succeeded in adding worth to the story. Humour is still very much in evidence, making this a well-plotted tale, featuring some quality characters. The author’s depiction of the little boy is funny and fantastic!
While I own this Kindle book, I actually listened to it via the Librivox recording. I sampled both of the recordings of this novel that Librivox has, started off with version 2 and ended up switching to this recording (I guess you could call it version 1). Neither of them were top-notch but both were pretty good single narrator recordings. I just found that in version 2, the narrator had a habit of pausing that disconcerted me.For comments about the plot, see my review of the Kindle book.
Classic Wodehouse. Don't pick this up thinking that you're getting Jeeves and Wooster. Their Mutual Child is biting social commentary of early twentieth-century NYC. He slices and dices not just the idle rich, but also the OTT, gun-ho American spirit of the time, and intellectual progressives who saw eugenics as the way to "improve" society. The stereotypes are pretty broad early on, but as reality sinks into his characters' thick heads, they become much more real. Funny and poignant.
