https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1440133.The_Case_Is_Closed
Geoffrey was well established with his uncle’s Accounting firm, and Marion had been a part-time model until she became pregnant with their first child.Then one evening Geoffrey is called to his uncle’s home and when he arrives his uncle is dead at his desk.
Estranged from her almost-fiance Henry, and shut out by Marion’s refusal to talk about what happened, Hilary decides to investigate on her own.I noticed in the first Miss Silver book that Miss Silver herself does not come into the story until somewhere around the 30% to 40% mark in the book.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveSexist, silly, and slow.Trust in me all in all, or trust me not at all, folks, this offers the modern reader mysteries few of the pleasures we presently expect.
The number of fortuitous encounters between Miss Hilary Carew and Mrs Mercer!
Miss Hilary Carew wants her big, dashing Captain Henry Cunningham to Save Her from Them!
That sexism is there at all is the surprise, since none of the women really need the men to solve their problems.
Miss Maud Hephzibah Silver least of all, of course.And there's the other latter-day reader's lament.
Miss Silver, Miss Carew and company aren't dishrags the way the poor women are.
3 1/2 starsThe author relies a bit too much on coincidence, but I just don't give a hoot! This series feels easy and breezy and just plain fun!
Miss Maud Hephzibah Silver made her first appearance in 1929, but readers who met her then had an eight year wait before they could meer her again, in 1937’s ‘The Case is Closed’.The story is engaging from the start: Hilary has stepped on to a train, after an argument with her fiancé, Henry, and because she had wanted to make a dramatic exit she had got on to the wrong train.
While she was away Hilary began to examine all of the paperwork about Geoff’s trial, because she was quite that he was innocent.The story played out beautifully, and though I guessed how the mystery would play out the characters and their relationships were engaging and believable.
Geoffrey Grey is in prison for murdering his uncle, but both his wife Marion and their cousin, Hilary, are convinced that he did not do it.
The world, however, believes that the right man is in prison.
I loved this very typical golden age mystery.The villains were pretty obvious right from the beginning, but the fun lay in how they are brought to justice.
Hilary was a fun character, and while Marion and Henry both got irritating at times, there were still good moments with them.
I am growing into these delightful mysteries by Patricia Wentworth.
The Case is closed (Miss Silver, #2) by Patricia Wentworth.Hilary Carew is actually the main character in this story and what a character she is!
That was until they had a spat and Hilary ran onto the wrong train.
Hilary, still pouting about their lovers' quarrel, is confronted in the trains' cabin by a woman who recognizes her.
A woman by the name of Mrs. Mercer who gave testimony against Hilary's cousin that sent her brother in law to prison for murder.
Mrs. Mercer can't seem to get her emotions under control and she continues to weep and speak at the same time.
It’s funny how two people can read the same book and come to such opposite conclusions.
It’s almost like we didn’t read the same book.
So one of my goodreads friends said this book is “sexist, silly and slow”.
I guess there are sexist elements but that’s pretty common in books from that time period (it was published in 1937).
I honestly didn’t find it silly although perhaps a bit melodramatic in a few places.
I enjoyed reading this one a great deal and would recommend it to anyone who likes mysteries from this time period.
Read this for a reading challenge. It is a good old fashioned murder mystery. Patricia Wentworth wrote many Miss Silver mysteries and I can't think of any more pleasant pursuit than reading through all of them. Although Miss Silver is the private investigator, in this book, the other characters play vital roles in uncovering the solution to the crime. It was a very exciting and satisfying story and I look forward to reading more Miss Silver mysteries.
Free download available at Faded Page.Geoffrey Grey has been convicted of his uncle's murder but his wife and wife's cousin think he is innocent.
Just before his murder Geoffrey's uncle, James changes his will to a nephew he has always disliked.
The Case Is Closed (Miss Silver #2), Patricia Wentworth
Hilary's frequently immature and act-first-think-later, but she's also incredibly charming and spunky with a good head in difficult situations - it's hard not to like her.
These are details that could have been cleverly woven into dialogue or Hilary's internal ruminations, so nothing could displease me more than being tasked with slogging through pages of court proceedings.The last problem aside, however, the rest could all be improved upon in later books and I really did enjoy the light sprinkling of romance with mystery, so I'm looking forward to trying more Miss Silver novels.
When I first started reading Patricia Wentworth's Miss Silver books several years ago I somehow managed to miss this one out.
But his wife, Marion and Hilary Carew, who lives with her are convinced he isn't guilty.Hilary sets out on a quest to find out who is guilty or at least find evidence which will exonerate Geoffrey but it seems that someone else doesn't want her digging around in an old case and she escapes death herself by the skin of her teeth.
Henry, her fiancé, calls in Miss Silver and between the three of them they set out to clear Geoffrey's name.The solution to the mystery is ingenious and I didn't work out who was responsible and how it was done until quite close to the end of the book.
Description: This Miss Silver mystery focuses on the struggle for power in male-female relationships - on the light-hearted side, in the signature "nice young couple" (Hilary and Henry), while a villain displays dominance and abuse.
The attitudes and sensitivities of a different time are on display as Hilary's cousin copes with the degradation of having to earn a living as a couturier's model, and the loss of not only her husband, but the children she had hoped to have.
Henry is not at all sure that the conviction was unjust, but the villains behave sufficiently suspiciously that he brings in governess-turned-private-enquiry-agent-Miss Silver, who discovers a decidedly dated motive for the down-trodden housekeeper's behavior.
4 Stars Geoffrey Grey has been convicted of his uncle's murder but his wife and wife's cousin think he is innocent.
Just before his murder Geoffrey's uncle, James changes his will to a nephew he has always disliked.
Hilary, Marion Grey's cousin is heartbroken over the conviction and what it is doing to her cousin.
Silver a P.I. who steps in to help.This is the second novel in the Miss.
Silver and I am hooked.
The book focuses on the character involved in the novel.
If you like cozy mysteries, noir, old time radio programs this might be the novel for you.
What a wonderful premise for a book - beginning with a closed case of murder and a conviction and imprisonment of one who is hoped to be innocent.
The moods of despair mingled with hopefulness was excellently done in this story.
Although the first book in this Miss Silver series had her only playing a small role, she begins to come to the forefront as a discerning "inquiry agent", that is a private detective interested in cases where the results are that finally the truth comes out.
I like, too, the element of romance which is not central to the story but brings a bit of anticipated and satisfying happiness at the end.
A fun series!
A high three. Interesting structure and plot, but relies more on sappiness than the character development of later books.
A quaint, old-fashioned (very, very old-fashioned) British murder mystery with a wise and kindly knitting sleuth named Miss Silver.
Her unassuming (yet sometimes all-knowing) air invests her subjects with loads of faith in her abilities to assist them in the seemingly impossible task ahead.
This reminds me of some of my first mystery books, and I am thrilled that there are 30 of them in the series (as I tend to read through an author’s complete works in short order when I like them).
I am looking forward to placing myself in Miss Silver’s capable hands again soon.
Until Miss Silver makes her entrance I thought the characters were silly & the story very scattered! Hoping the next book has more Miss Silver!
I've been reading tons of Agatha Christie before, so while there are elements of similarity, the narrative style and plot structure are significantly different.The mystery in itself was somewhat interesting.
I don't mean to say that Christie's detectives are the only allowable type of detective characters, but I found nothing about Miss Silver to engage me or make me interested in reading more of her cases.
I'm not sure whether I will continue to read more Miss Silver stories, I would recommend this book for those who love mystery stories from this era.
As in the title, it appears that everything is over and done with; the case is closed.What is happening as the book begins, is that Wentworth is describing the aftermath of these events, and their impact on the people associated with Charles Everton, the man accused of killing his uncle.
The conversation that ensues is very confusing to Hilary, but it prompts her to begin to look again at the Everton case, not only to follow up on what she is told on the train, but also in an attempt to try and diminish Marion’s suffering.Miss Silver doesn’t show up until a long way into the story, and in many ways plays a background role to the other characters.
The solution is more or less handed on a silver plate and then she irons out a few very obvious secondary details.What this book really does is make me appreciate more just how good Christie was at her craft.
But the mystery on offer here must have been simple and cliche even by 1937.Finally, Wentworth needs to learn to trust her readers (and maybe she does in later books)- bits of information we already know get repeated ad nauseam to catch other characters up and without any furthering of the facts themselves.
I've always felt that Miss Silver books deserved wider readership.
Hilary's former fiance Henry helps out, especially when it comes to buying dinner and paying for cabs, and he's the one who enlists Miss Silver.
Also, the relationship between Hilary and Henry is a large focus of the story, to the delight of those like me who enjoy reading a sweet romance with a feisty heroine.
If you want your novel to focus only on the mystery you'll be disappointed.This is the kind of book where it doesn't matter if you figured out the mystery or not, you're happy to have spent some time enjoying the ride.
I've decided to read through the Miss Silver mysteries as I can find them.
All the characters are emotionally overwrought.Hilary and Henry's romance, where he tries to be the boss of her and she tries to manage him, is not admirable.
I know we're supposed to love her and weep for all her sorrow, but most of the time I wanted to slap her.
It made me think of those movies where a group of bad guys plan the perfect heist and every single item goes to plan, and I think "bullshit, no way would ALL the details work out perfectly." In this case, the plan fell apart early and often, but no one asked the right questions until Hilary got her nose into the business.
I want more Miss Silver!
Maybe it is because of my having been weaned on Ms Christie but I do expect the author of a whodunit to be a conjurer who has a final trick up the sleeve.
I have now hint through three other well recommended authors back to back and none of them seem to be able to deliver that punch.This story is about the fallacy of alibis.
The author's own fascination for this causes her to be going vs k to alibis again and again .
For those reasons, I would recommend mystery lovers to give this a read without expecting a denouement ala Agatha Christie.
I'm fairly sure every good writer has tried their hand at this one (I know both Agatha Christie and Colin Dexter have, at the very least) - a murder case, fairly clear who killed the victim, murderer tried, found guilty and that's it.
I thought that this version was well done, though the trick with the alibis should have been obvious to anyone, never mind people who read far too many mystery novels.
There are shades of Pocket full of rye again there, and the poor woman herself puts me in mind of the first victim in And then there were none (and if you haven't read that you really should).
The Case Is Closed - Wentworth Audio performance by Diana Bishop 3.5 starsThis is the second book in Wentworth’s Miss Silver series. Miss Silver is a retired governess turned private detective. She has been compared to Miss Marple. Wentworth has been compared to Agatha Christie; another writer in the golden age of British mysteries. Her books were popular and the series went on for years and years, but I see Miss Silver and Wentworth as being ‘B list’ in comparison to Miss Marple, Peter and Har
The Case Is Closed - Wentworth Audio performance by Diana Bishop 3.5 starsThis is the second book in Wentworth’s Miss Silver series.
She has been compared to Miss Marple.
Wentworth has been compared to Agatha Christie; another writer in the golden age of British mysteries.
Her books were popular and the series went on for years and years, but I see Miss Silver and Wentworth as being ‘B list’ in comparison to Miss Marple, Peter and Harriet Whimsy, and Albert Campion.
I will say that Wentworth wrote a more believable romance than Agatha Christie.
Believable, but very much of its time.
Unlike current books of today that are excessive with needless words, Wentworth is an actual writer that knows how to set a scenes and unribbon the story.
Really enjoyed the interaction of characters Hillary and Henry as they solve the crime and configure their relationship.Those that have relegated their reading to current contemporary books, are likely to find this book tough to get through.
The book is not obvious to it's direction and the asides are plenty and very well written.Bottom line: i recommend the book.
Hilary and Henry used to be engaged, but after their last argument, Hilary gets into the wrong train just to avoid him.
There she meets a frightened woman who clearly knows something about the case of Hilary’s cousin’s husband, currently serving a 25-year sentence for murder.
So, Hilary begins investigating.
Someone knows the truth, but they aren’t telling.
Hilary is a great character, with a poet imp who constantly pipes up at the wrong (right?) moment, but she needs help.
Who to ask, but Henry?
Hilary and Henry supply the humor as well as the investigating.
Geoffrey Grey has been found guilty of the murder of his uncle but his wife's cousin Hilary believes his is innocent. When she meets the cook of the Uncle, she believes evidence of his innocence has been hidden and continues to investigate. Miss Silver doesn't really make an appearance until about half way through, but with the help of Hilary's boyfriend Henry the guilty party are brought to justice.Hoping that Miss Silver gets more involved in the next book, and that there is less repetition in the telling of the story.
