https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13578175-the-emperor-s-soul
(I read this in Arcanum Unbounded: The Cosmere Collection)Incredible… 105 pages, that’s apparently the minimum amount of pages Sanderson needs to create a fantastic story with strong beginning, character development, great climax and satisfying conclusion.
As an Asian myself, I find it a unique experience to read a great high fantasy story with the high amount of detail to Asian culture and even though this is a short book, Forgery and Bloodsealing, the magic systems, are imbued with intricate explanation and imaginative, as Sanderson’s usual strength.
What if you could create anything?
Or more specifically, what if you could change the history of an object and essentially recreate what it believes it is?All you need is a little Titanium White...Ok. Maybe not.
She's got a few months before the Emperor's council need to present him as hale and hearty to the other factions within the government who want to take over.So what's a girl to do?Well, that's one option.But Shai has other plans...This was a really good short story, and if Sanderson's other fantasy stuff is anything like this, then I can't wait to read more!
"The Emperor's Soul" deserves all of the stars. All of the praise. “There was rarely an obvious branching point in a person's life. People changed slowly, over time. You didn't take on step, then find yourself in a completely new location. Then you stopped paying attention as you drifted farther and farther away. ” You know what this book's only flaw is? It's way too short.Oh, don't worry, the story is all perfectly wrapped up and beautiful. There just needs to be more of this because "The Emper
Hello, I haven't ever read of a girl in a book, let alone fantasy book, who wears glasses!
It doesn't matter what a person looks like - what matters is how they behave themselves, how they present themselves and what their skills and talents are.
And if you are Sanderson's fan, but haven't read this yet- you are missing out big time."The Emperor's Soul" is going on my all-time-favorite-books shelf and it will stay there forever and ever.My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
My only complaint about this book is that it should have been longer!Shai is a forger, meaning that she can rewrite an object's history, thus making it into a new object.
I don't know why I loved this so much, I think I was just completely entranced by the magic system.
Even though this book was only 175 pages, I was able to get such a clear sense of the characters.
When a character feels real, their motivations become important to me as a reader.
This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but there isn't really much that ties this book to Teod or Arelon or Elantris or any of the countries/cities previously mentioned.
But Shai is given an opportunity to escape her sentence: she is charged with magically forging a new soul for the kingdom's assassinated emperor, whose body had been repaired but whose mind was destroyed by the attack.
Even after all this time, the window had seen itself as something beautiful.Or maybe she was just getting romantic again.I love what this book has to say about the nature of art, and souls, and how people affect each other.He found himself weeping.Not for the future or for the emperor.
The Emperors Soul was no different, it is a complete story with another strong female character and I was totally drawn into the story immediately.Even though this is set in the Elantris world it stands on its own.
Shai is another strong female character and I loved getting to know her in this.
Again another great story from BS, I could hardly pull myself out of the story to even submit a status update.If you have never read a Sanderson book and you are wondering ‘would I like this author?’ this is a great book to try and just get a taste of how wonderful the magic, worlds and characters he creates are.
I read this novella in the Arcanum Unbounded: The Cosmere Collection along with my fellow brigdemen (and bridgewomen?) : Celeste, Petrik, Sarah and Mary  No matter how good you were, someone was better. Live by that knowledge, and you would never grow so confident that you became sloppy.  This is a re-read of the Emperor's Soul and while it was just good the first time I read it, this time I found it to be an exceptional masterpiece!! I'm truly speechless and I never experienced this feeling bef
With his simple, yet elegant writing, Brandon Sanderson delivered a remarkable reflection on the complexity of human nature, on the passions that stir; forge or define a person, on the passing of time and how it changes us, remodel us and stifle the fire and dreams of our youth.
In a little over 100 pages, Sanderson created a new Empire, a new magic system, new complex and compelling characters, and managed to include a brilliant philosophical reflection and detailed explantations and links to the Cosmere.
And if you love philosophical reflection in your Fantasy, or if you're fond of Fantasy with complex and original magic system, this book is for you!!
Too damn short. Sanderson what is wrong with you? I want more~!!!https://vipera2015.wordpress.com/2018...
Shai's motives and desire to do what no one has ever done before are very well explained in her actions, and her diving deeply into the the task that has been placed before her makes for a very interesting and entertaining character.The Emperor's Soul is very well written.
While a great deal of this book deals with the magic system, and it's morality, the story itself is more about Shai and her motivations as a character this time around.
I’m completely in love with the Cosmere Brandon Sanderson has created, and so far I’ve adored every story he’s crafted that is part of that greater whole.
It made me question everything I believe about what makes art worthy of praise and what defines a person or object.Is a skillful forgery any less lovely and awe-inspiring simply because it isn’t an “original”?
It was the greatest work of art he had ever witnessed.Without getting into the story itself (because it’s a tiny thing and everyone should read it.
5/5  “Her aunt Sol had once told Shai to smile at the worst insults and snap at the minor ones. That way, no man would know your heart.”   I know this quote is so over-used however it is my favorite quote from this book and quite possibly one of my favorite book quotes ever.One of my favorite short stories by Brandon Sanderson. It's literally only 105 pages long so it is very short. I can remember reading it for the first time and loving every second of it, on the reread I noticed a few things I
I know this quote is so over-used however it is my favorite quote from this book and quite possibly one of my favorite book quotes ever.One of my favorite short stories by Brandon Sanderson.
I love her.Image from Tor hardcover edition of Arcanum UnboundedThe writing is everything you would expect from a Sanderson, it's mind blowing and full of beautiful vivid imagery.
I swear I just love Sanderson so much.
You do not need to read his other books before this one, unless you buy Arcanum Unbounded then I suggest reading Mistborn 1-6 first and also Stormlight Archive 1-2.
Each person was a puzzle. My first official read of 2018, read this first cause I know I'll love it and I wanted to start the year with something I'll love.This book is perfect, am still marveled by the fact that its even a novella, the way the plot unravels, and that ending, I did not see that coming, then again its Brandon Sanderson, I shouldn't be surprise, he is a genius. World building and WritingOnce again Brandon Sanderson wowed me, the world is so well depicted even though its a novella
My first official read of 2018, read this first cause I know I'll love it and I wanted to start the year with something I'll love.This book is perfect, am still marveled by the fact that its even a novella, the way the plot unravels, and that ending, I did not see that coming, then again its Brandon Sanderson, I shouldn't be surprise, he is a genius.
The writing is explicit and easy to understand, the book is written in third person multiple POV, but 80% is in Shai’s POV.CharactersShai is just the perfect female protagonist, she is smart, intelligent, confident, manipulative and also a forger.
Forgery is relatively a complex magic system (it's more complicated than Allomancy or Feruchemy for instance), and it would have benefited being included in a longer novel, as Brandon could have developed it more than what could be done in 170 pages.4.5 stars (It's a 5 stars magic system, and any other author would get the fully 5 stars here for being imaginative, but considering what Brandon could have done with this magic system in a longer book I reduced half a star).Plot – it's a short novel and it includes a relatively complex magic system, so the plot that can be squeezed in a 170 pages is quite limited, though the storyline here is good.
It's so clear that it's a Sanderson book, I'd have easily figured it up if I didn't know who wrote this book.All in all, it's a very good short novel.
I did not expect anything else!!!*** 5 ***This story is "The Emperor's Soul " from the World of Elantris and is about a master craftsmen forger, Shai, who can meticulously copy and re-create any item by rewriting its history with skillful magic, knowledge and will.
"...“People", Shai said, rising to fetch another seal, "by nature attempt to exercise power over what is around them.
A man-made wall.
The fingers of man's influence are all about, touching everything.
Every single thing in the city that we touch, see, feel, experience comes as the result of some person's influence.” ..." 
He shouldn’t have been able to get away with such deviations; the Grands liked their fools on the silly side of ridiculous.“Come to mock me?” Shai snapped, turning back to her carving.“I don’t mock the condemned,” the Fool said from beyond the cell bars.
How wonderful that her life, and its impending end, could bring pleasure to the Imperial Fool.“There are forty-four kinds of stone in the wall, you know,” he said.She spun.
Even if you had the proper stone, you’d use a fork to etch it?”Shai looked down at the fork, dropped behind on the ground.“The wall is a challenge, Shai,” the Fool said.She closed her eyes.
“There are times when one must accept the aid of darkness in order to contain a greater darkness.”  Brandon Sanderson has done it again!!
What a brilliant imagination Brandon Sanderson has!!! This book was AMAZING!  Wan ShaiLu, was more than a simple con artist. So much more. She could change the nature of reality itself.  Imagine a world where there are Forgers who can change/rewrite the nature of objects and even of a person by using a Soulstamp.  Wan ShaiLu is such a forger, one of the best there is. And when she’s caught replacing a famous painting with her almost flawless forgery, instead of being executed she’s offered a dea
For Shai to Forge a new soul for the Emperor, she had to spend many days and nights learning his past, his history, in order to get his soul right, because if it wasn’t a true replica of who he was before it wouldn’t take.
And the more she learned about the emperor, about who he was, who he wanted to be, and who he was in the end, the more she was determined to get everything right, to make him live again.
With every book I read by this author, I’m once again amazed at what a fantastic imagination he has.
“Her aunt Sol had once told Shai to smile at the worst insults and snap at the minor ones. That way, no man would know your heart.”  Well, shit. *screams* *flips a desk* *karate chops the air**flips another desk because why not*I justThe Emperor's Soul, has been on my radar for quite awhile AND I thought it'd be a great idea to pick it up during the most crucial time of my life : Exam week. I'm 1000000%  sure I'm going to complain about why I did this to myself BUT you know what ??? I have no r
That way, no man would know your heart.” 
*screams* *flips a desk* *karate chops the air**flips another desk because why not*I justThe Emperor's Soul, has been on my radar for quite awhile AND I thought it'd be a great idea to pick it up during the most crucial time of my life : Exam week.
I'm 1000000%  sure I'm going to complain about why I did this to myself BUT you know what ???
Excuse me, while I go back to screaming and flipping desks because  I WANT MORE.
One day, If he wants to publish a book called "Shaba Laba Ding Dong"  then SIGN ME UP.
Wow. Just wow. Where does this man get all his fancy ideas from, and how can he fit them, like in this case, on not even 200 pages?
Packed into a little over 100 pages, we have considerations of fate, choice, the nature of art vs plagiarism, authenticity, deceit as a way to tell the truth, telling the truth as a means of deceit, what it means to truly know a person, what it means to rule, what it means to be human and the difference between the kind of linear stories we tell about ourselves that approximate the truth, and the real thing.
The Emperor's Soul is a nice, short book.Shai is a Forger, a person who can copy and recreate anything with magical seals.
She was promised her freedom in exchange for recreating the emperor's soul (as he was left catatonic after an assassination attempt).
The book follows her imprisonment days as she creates the seal required for the emperor's soul.I liked Shai's intelligence and intuition.
She is fully aware that she would not be left alive after her task is completed, so is constantly thinking of an escape plan.I also liked the lack of romance.
Shai interacts mostly with 2 characters, Gaotona and Frava.
Little wonder why this novella won the Hugo Award, so beautifully written and delivered, this story speaks to your soul - pun entirely intended.
And what could be more complicated and masterful than that of the forgery of a soul.
He also gave us characters that are compelling (the relationship between Shai and Gaotana was simply wonderful) and injected emotion, tension and contemplation into a story which I can only describe as beautiful, all in under 200 pages.
The magic system of Forgery was displayed to its fullest potential given the limited number of pages, but the essence of the story was not in the least compromised.
P/S: Do read the Postscript by the author :)
4.5 STARS “I wish that I could know you. Not your soul, but you. I’ve read about you; I’ve seen into your heart. I’ve rebuilt your soul, as best I could. But that isn’t the same. It isn’t knowing someone, is it? That’s knowing about someone.”Yet Shai completed her task perfectly! This story is mostly about two persons. Shai - a Forger, a con artist - caught replacing an important empire relic with her nearly flawless forgery, now she must bargain for her life. And Gaotona - an elderly politicia
Sanderson managed to develop the characters throughout the story in a very believable way and considering the length of the book he has done an excellent job.
Shai is given an impossible task: to create - to Forge - a new soul for the emperor in less than one hundred days.
The Forgery - Sanderson's magic system in this book - is unique and very imaginative.
The Postscript in the eBook is fantastic and there Sanderson explains what experience inspired him to write this novella.
I read this book by switching between audio and eBook.
This is Brandon Sanderson at his best even though as a novella it is much, much too short! Within only 175 pages he manages to build a new world with previously unexplored magic and introduces characters we can care about. His major skill is that he never stops to explain anything. No info dumps from this author! Nevertheless he manages to explain and inform as the story progresses so that the reader is always able to be part of the action. I loved every short minute of it. Did I mention it should have been longer???
Read as part of Arcanum Unbounded. What amazes me in Sanderson's shorter works is how quickly and simply he creates a world. There's nothing superfluous or verbose about it yet it is engrossing and thought provoking. Definitely worth the read. The postscript in Arcanum Unbounded about how the idea came about was very interesting after having the story just unfold.
This was an awesome read. Set in the world of Elantris but not really connected to the main story arc. The magic system was genius. How does he come up with this stuff...:D It was a quick engaging read. A fine adition to Sandersons work. 5 stars
You know I'm going to Love this because it's from Sanderson right? Right!!! Nothing but ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥~Going to read Legion Now~
Sanderson did it again.Impressed, I was. What a magic system. How does he do it?
Buddy read with my two partners in crime: Robin and Athena; and introducing Katie our new addition to the Sanderson marathon!_______________________________________Before I start this review let me tell you something: this is my favorite Sanderson book.
However, it delivers a concise well thought plot; a nicely explained and incredibly interesting magic system, and awesome well developed characters.Also, if you're a fan of The Way of Kings, this book gives a lot of insight about soulcasting.
With less than 200 pages,  THE EMPEROR'S SOUL was able to tell a fully developed and highly interesting story.
I’m not sure if you need to read another of Sanderson’s novels first, as  THE EMPEROR'S SOUL is set in the same world as his novel Elantris, but I haven’t read that novel yet, and I wasn’t confused or put off by this one.I think this could be a great teaser story to get people into fantasy, and I’d suggest giving it a read.
