https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1738852._Ente_Katha
ആദയം നെററി ചുളികകയും പിനനീട അതഭുതപപെടുകയും ചെയതു ..........വരികളാൽ വർണണങങൾ തീരകകുനന കഥാകാരിയെ ആരാധനയോടെ നോകകി ....... ഒടടും അഹങഗാരി അലലാതത ആ പരതിഭയകക ഇതിലും ചെറുതായി തനറെ വികാരതതെ വരനനികകാൻ ആവിലല..... "ഞാൻ ഇതാണെനന പറയാൻ ഞാൻ ആരെ ഭയകകണം " എനന എനറെ വരികൾ കൂടടിചചേർതതു നിരതതുനനു.....(RAD)
ആദ്യം നെറ്റി ചുളിക്കയും പിന്നീട് അത്ഭുതപ്പെടുകയും ചെയ്തു ..........വരികളാൽ വർണ്ണങ്ങൾ തീര്ക്കുന്ന കഥാകാരിയെ ആരാധനയോടെ നോക്കി ....... ഒട്ടും അഹങ്ഗാരി അല്ലാത്ത ആ പ്രതിഭയ്ക്ക് ഇതിലും ചെറുതായി തന്റെ വികാരത്തെ വര്ന്നിക്കാൻ ആവില്ല..... "ഞാൻ ഇതാണെന്ന് പറയാൻ ഞാൻ ആരെ ഭയക്കണം " എന്ന എന്റെ വരികൾ കൂട്ടിച്ചേർത്തു നിര്ത്തുന്നു.....(RAD)
ഒരു ചടട കൂടിലും ഒതുങങി നിലകാതെ .. സവനതം ജീവിതതതെ പചചയായി അവതരിപപിചചുകൊണട നടതതിയ ഈ ജീവിത കാവയം . ഒരു സതരീയുടെ എലലാം വികാര വിചാര തലങങളെ സനനിവേസിപപിചചു കാണിചച ആ ധൈരയതതിന മുനനില വാകകുകള പോലും മതിയാകിലല ..... എലലാവരും വയിചിരികേണട ഒരു അതമകധംശം തനനെ ആണ...... ഇത പോലെ ഒരു പുസതകം ലോക ചരിതരതതില ഉണടായതുമിലല ...ഇനി ഉണടാകുമിലല .......
ഒരു ചട്ട കൂടിലും ഒതുങ്ങി നില്കാതെ .. സ്വന്തം ജീവിതത്തെ പച്ചയായി അവതരിപ്പിച്ചുകൊണ്ട് നടത്തിയ ഈ ജീവിത കാവ്യം . ഒരു സ്ത്രീയുടെ എല്ലാം വികാര വിചാര തലങ്ങളെ സന്നിവേസിപ്പിച്ചു കാണിച്ച ആ ധൈര്യത്തിന് മുന്നില് വാക്കുകള പോലും മതിയാകില്ല ..... എല്ലാവരും വയിചിരികേണ്ട ഒരു അത്മകധംശം തന്നെ ആണ്‌...... ഇത് പോലെ ഒരു പുസ്തകം ലോക ചരിത്രത്തില ഉണ്ടായതുമില്ല ...ഇനി ഉണ്ടാകുമില്ല .......
It is rare that I read an Indian author in English, but Kamala Das and her book were a gambit that worked.
In the book, she explores the desires of women of that era who were bound by tradition and had no say in any matters.
It is not a continuous story but rather a collection of incidents based on the lives of various women the author came across in her life.
It is difficult to say how much of it is true as she tends to tease the reader with a story only to reveal that it was all along a work of imagination.
"സമുദായതതെ ഒരു വിരൂപിയായ മുതതശശിയായി ഞാൻ കാണുനനു. വിദവെഷം നിറഞഞ മനസസുളളവരെയും നുണപറയുനനവരെയും വഞചികകുനനവരെയും സവാർതഥികളെയും ഏററവും രഹസയമായി കൊലചെയതവരെയും ഈ വൃദധ ഒരു കരിമപടം കൊണട വാതസലയതതോടെ പുതപപികകുനനു. ഈ കരിമപടതതിനറെ രകഷയെ വെറുകകുനനവർ പുറതതുകിടനനു തണുതതുവിറയകകുനനു. "
"സമുദായത്തെ ഒരു വിരൂപിയായ മുത്തശ്ശിയായി ഞാൻ കാണുന്നു. വിദ്വെഷം നിറഞ്ഞ മനസ്സുള്ളവരെയും നുണപറയുന്നവരെയും വഞ്ചിക്കുന്നവരെയും സ്വാർത്ഥികളെയും ഏറ്റവും രഹസ്യമായി കൊലചെയ്തവരെയും ഈ വൃദ്ധ ഒരു കരിമ്പടം കൊണ്ട് വാത്സല്യത്തോടെ പുതപ്പിക്കുന്നു. ഈ കരിമ്പടത്തിന്റെ രക്ഷയെ വെറുക്കുന്നവർ പുറത്തുകിടന്നു തണുത്തുവിറയ്ക്കുന്നു. "
Disappointing and incomplete too... So many repetitions... And the spelling.!!! .. Will not buy another Malayalam ebook...
In the time of just independent India, when the position of women had a lot to cry about still, here is a woman who knew her mind and who put herself and her individuality much before anything else.
Who was not scared of putting down on paper exactly what she had done in life and what she thought of her husband and various other relations are were thrust on her...
One can not stand on moral judgement and say whether how she led her life and what she did or did not do, was right or wrong.
In that sense it s a taking stock of one’s own life and its perennial poetry.Her confessions regarding her prolonged stints with religiosity, her bouts of scepticism, the attempts to project herself as a sinner before her readers and a saint before her gods all add to the enthralling enigma we love as Amy or Kamala Das or Madhavikutty.
This volume is further proof that here is a writer who will not go gently into the swirling mists of easy oblivion but will continue to haunt this world and the readers she so loved to enthrall.
K Das has a deft and confident writing style with powerfully effective use of imagery. Clearly a highly intelligent complex person who led a restive emotionally unsatiated life.Hardy's crushingly depressing assessment of human existence comes to mind:"happiness is but an occasional episode in a general drama of pain"To apply it precisely to Kamalaben - need to replace "happiness" with "near fulfilment" and "pain" with "frustration"
Really an awesome poet, writer and lover.. Some very deep insights about adolescent age, women psychology, love and our sexually suppressed society..
Something that cannot be described in mere words. With its mesmerizing poetry, and the captivating poet who pinned them up;this is nothing short of marvelous!
The recent in the list of those books which I read again was Kamala Das ' My Story'.
When I first read it, about 15 years ago, the only scene that I remembered from the book was when Das ( her husband ) forcibly kissing her when they meet for the first time.
Except those scenes I remember nothing till I read it for the third time.
It might because I was studying in a convent at that time where all such conversation were a taboo) Coming back to the review, The Nalappat house, the ancestral home of Kamala provided ample resources to take a deep plunge into the ocean of writing.
But at the same time she loves her husband too.
Her story.It was not about how she rose to fame.
In brief, it isn't like any other autobiography that inspires you to live in that person's shoes.Its an honest story that leads you through the paths she's walked, her thoughts, feelings, mistakes.
Anyhow, it also talks about the sadder, lonelier, imperfect parts of life that every normal man goes through which plays an important role in his/her decisions.This isn't a book meant to entertain you but for you to open your mind wider, or simply just to listen, to judge, to introspect.
This is one woman who never ceases to amaze me. Reading this book, I was one with the woman who wanted to love under the Gul Mohar, the one who had an abundance of love for everything and everyone around her, the one who wanted to make sure that her kids believed in magic. To think that someone like her existed not so long ago, gives me hope.
I had read the English version when I was in higher secondary, I feel I like that better.
The malayalam is more complicated, may because I'm not used to reading more malayalam books.
There is no structure as such, she just records parts of her life, like a set of memories.
I do agree that it would needed a lot of courage to put all of her thoughts on paper without filters, I'm not sure I could do it.
The book talks about the orthodox society and what society expects is an ideal woman.
Kamala has broken all the rules set by the society, she was her own woman.
Actually, Did Not Finish.I love Kamala Das's writing, that's why I bought this book and had great expectations. But, I feel sorry to say that this book is like a plain diary, without any twist or excitement. My opinion about the author's writing is still same, but I didn't feel like turning pages (I tried) as I didn't know what I wanted know or why should I complete the book.Very disappointed.
its an awesome autobiography of a splendid writer
ലജജ എനന വാകകിനറെ മാധുരയം മനസിലാകകിതതനന കലാസൃഷടി...
ലജ്ജ എന്ന വാക്കിന്റെ മാധുര്യം മനസിലാക്കിത്തന്ന കലാസൃഷ്ടി...

While reading this book, I could sense the loneliness and longing of a woman all througout.
Apart from that my heart was squeezed several times as I read the book when she nonchalantly writes about having a loveless marriage as a child bride.
The author's loneliness is clearly evident and at times she sounds like a bored affluent housewife who is marinating in self-pity.
I say self-pity because it is only in the end Kamala Das, with a slight regret talks about no one coming forward to turn her dreams into reality.
The book should be read by all men to really know the plight of the women trapped in body and time.On sedativesI am more lovableSays my husbandMy speech becomes a mist-laden terrain,The words emerge tinctured with sleep,They rise from still coves of dreams In unhurried flight like herons,And my ragdoll-limbs adjust betterTo this versatile lust.

It rates a 5* rating for the poetry alone."Some people told me that writing an autobiography like this, with absolute honesty, keeping nothing to oneself, is like doing a striptease.
Despite what I had heard and what she writes about her many loves, it's evident that her affairs were more affairs of her heart and intellect rather than meaningless but passionate encounters.Sadly the book ends at the middle of her life.
So we are left in the dark about her reasons for her conversion to Islam and the events in the second half of her life.
An Indian woman writing about extramarital affairs, sexual fantasies and lesbianism in the early 70s; no wonder this book caused controversies.
Brought up in rural India, married at an early age, this woman found solace in her kids and ultimately, writing.Her poetry conveyed melancholy of a lonely woman very well.
In an era when women were expected to serve their husbands, raise kids and lose their identity in household chores, I applaud her defiance of the conventions.The book is written as series of incidents rather than a continuous journey.
On a personal level, I found this book too depressing to be re-read.
I can see why it was so considered in the then relatively conservative and tradition-bound communities in Kerala.
The lyricism of her verses contrasting well with her straightforward prose.Gradually, Kamala becomes resigned to, and then later adjusts to, her marriage to a man who for the most part shows little interest in her.
Kamala writes beautifully and descriptively.
Her descriptions of Calcutta, Bombay, New Delhi, and her native place in Kerala are sensitive as also are her portrayals of the many people she meets.I found this book about a person previously unknown to me surprisingly compelling.
This sensational autobiography of kamala das has send waves of shock to shake the mindset of common readers .The work has won admiration from the readers side because of the fearless presentation of issues still considered to be a social taboo.The work presents the journey of the author to womanhood ,her intense personal experiences .The memoir was far ahead of its era and has been widely acknowledged as a great work from the side of the author.
In a world of pretenses and masks, this human dared to live a life of her choice. Same bold and powerful voice echoes in her writing also. The line that i loved the most was her own comments about her life-" I don't think I will have another incarnation, another after life. All that I ever wanted to do, all my desires, I have fulfilled in this life" . I wonder how many humans will ever dare to say that before their death.
Every about one's life is written without any hindrance or censor. although I have to applaud the author's way of avoiding the critical person names here and there which might just slip off from the scenario.It was catchy and clinging to read on and on and finish the story which begun with adolescence and ends with the realisation of death and old age!
Though an autobiography, it reads as a fanciful story of a whimsical and vain woman. And I mean vain in the best of ways. She is wealthy, well-read, socially aware and yet life throws her curve balls of loneliness, longing and disease. The author's brilliance is her honesty, her courage to write beautifully about being a snob and her distilled awareness of her self and her needs.
Admire her for her fine and bold way of writing.
No other authors in India can do a work like this. Simply I can say this work is thr beauty of the wast freedom.
