https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76778.The_Martian_Chronicles
RIDDLE ME A MARTIAN RIDDLE۞A Riddle: What walks on two legs, uses two arms, talks like a human, acts like a human, kills humans, replaces humans, wants to be accepted and loved by a human?Answer: A Martian!۞A Riddle: What walks on two legs, uses two arms, talks like a human, acts like an animal except that's unfair to animals, kills others of its kind, wages war on its own kind, and destroys its own planet?Answer: A Human!۞A Riddle: What is built like a succession of linked stories, feels at times like a play by Brecht, feels at times like a mournful and elegiac ode to the dying of small towns, is a wise tale of human nature, is written with melancholy and sighs, is quietly sinister, is gently tragic, yet is also a science fiction novel?Answer: The Martian Chronicles!۞A Riddle: What is a ball of blue fire, a transcended entity, a being that lives in God's grace, a model of wisdom and goodness, and a terrifying symbol of the unknowable?
"We earth men have a talent for ruining big, beautiful things."The Martian Chronicles, a perfect example of what I'd call a 'quintessential Bradbury' - fragmentary, at times disjointed, occasionally crossing the line into the realm of surreal, full of his trademark nostalgia and sadness, this account of the failed American Dream approach to the exploration of the ultimate frontier never stops fascinating me and drawing me in with its inexplicable charm.
The Martian Chronicles is a book I have heard about for years, but ended up passing it by in lieu of other Ray Bradbury classics (do you need to qualify them by saying “classic”?
Generally it is very dark – there is a little ray of hope to it, but the overall feel is if we don’t get our s#!t together, we are doomed.So, if you are looking for sci-fi and want nothing less than space battles and cool spaceships, this is not the book for you.
Then some collective idea pops out of nowhere--a fine symbol of apocalypse and annihilation--& scares the living shit outta everyone.I know I haven't read much sci-fi in the past, but I know that to top this one will be VERY tough."Martian Chronicles" surpasses, in some ways, that which Bradbury tried, and admits to imitating with this collection of short stories (the crazy masterpiece, "Winesburg, Ohio" by Sherwood Anderson).
The Chronicles turn Voltairesque, then it all becomes a western as fixed and terrible as anything by Cormac McCarthy full of guns and violence, then takes a Tarantino turn of events, robots and-- It's all one powerful and unique oxymoron.
Bradbury writes just the perfectly extra adjective in many of his sentences.
But, alas, the Martians have a very different opinion to the aliens that invaded their planet.
This made me laugh so much because man, in his naivety, expected an entirely human reaction from an alien race.
Bradbury suggests that Martian culture has transcended its human counterpart; the Martians have accepted an animalistic ethos in which they live for the simple sake of existence.
"We earth men have a talent for ruining big, beautiful things."I think in drawing this parallel Bradbury makes a suggestion on the foolish nature of man.
Earth is not enough for man, he wants Mars too.
Poetic science fiction.
Being set in the future and involving space travel, Mars and futuristic technology makes this fit into the science fiction genre, but Bradbury is a writer of literature.
This is beautiful writing and Bradbury is an artist with a mastery of the language.
Mars could be another dimension, or fairy land, it does not really matter, Bradbury has concocted an alternate reality to explore psychological ethos.
If Heinlein is the science fiction ideologist / sociologist, and Clarke the science fiction anthropologist, and Asimov the science fiction theologist; then Bradbury is the science fiction psychologist.
Ray Bradbury has suddenly secured his spot at the top of my list of favorite authors.
The G.O.A.T.And Scott Brick has suddenly secured his spot at the top of my list of favorite audiobook narrators.
But, man, if you want to take your Bradbury experience to the next level, let Scott Brick read his books to you.
I didn’t read the synopsis.
I could read Bradbury describe the weather or what it feels like to watch paint dry or how to change a car battery or how to fry an egg and I would savor every bit of it.
Read everything this guy has written.
Basta con solo dar vuelta las páginas pretéritas de nuestra historia para encontrarnos con todo tipo de conquistadores que hicieron muy bien su trabajo, o sea, devastar el nuevo mundo descubierto de distintas maneras (sobre el medio ambiente, sobre los animales o los mismos seres humanos).Nada se resiste al poder destructivo del hombre, y esto queda evidenciado claramente en muchos pasajes de este libro.Durante la tercera expedición a Marte, los mismos astronautas recién llegados, debaten sobre este tema, que es antiguo y moderno: "¿Recuerda usted lo que pasó en México cuando Cortés y sus amigos llegaron de España?
I am not a fan of short stories in general, however, I was totally absorbed and fascinated by this book.
I guess the main idea I got can be summarized by the following quote: “We earth men have a talent for ruining big, beautiful things.”The martian Chronicles are stories about destruction, in many forms caused by what humanity has worse: war, censorship, ignorance, disrespect for other cultures, greed, fear etc.
The stories are beautiful, fascinating but very disturbing and scary in the same time.
What did time smell like?
That was how Time smelled and looked and sounded.
Wow. Just...wow. Why have I never read this before? Ray Bradbury has written an amazing, lyrical, spooky-as-hell set of pieces that all add up to something much more. Some are very brief, mere sketches of events. Others are full-length short stories.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
That makes sense to me, especially if you consider passages such as this:“There was a smell of Time in the air tonight.
And tonight-Tomas shoved a hand into the wind outside the truck-tonight you could almost taste time.” This book is less conventional novel than a series of lyrical vignettes stitched together to give us a sense of why a variety of Earth people might have come to Mars.
When I first read this fifty years ago I thought this book was sweet, fanciful, both a romantic call to Tune In and Drop Out of conventional society and a dark warning of the Apocalypse.
After rereading Something Wicked This Way Comes last month I thought I'd read Fahrenheit 451 but as it turned out The Reddit SF Book Club chose The Martian Chronicles as book of the month (July 2012) so in order to keep up with the Joneses here we are!
The song's lyrics remind me of Stairway to Heaven a bit.The Earth Men (August 1999/2030)This one starts off as a comical First Contact story, with the Earthmen not getting the rock star welcome they expected.
I was reading it as a pre-teen, then as a teen, was a member of an sf book club, subscribed to Fantasy & Science Fiction (F&SF - the magazine) … then as I transitioned from high school to college, it gradually got left behind for other reading interests, more interesting to a young person beginning to learn about real life.Ray BradburyRay Bradbury was born in 1920 in Waukegan Illinois.
(hide spoiler)] When Bradbury returned to Los Angeles, he connected all the short stories and that became The Martian Chronicles.MC has 26 chapters.
The Martian Chronicles is an amazing collection of interconnected stories about Mars.
Even though some of the tales are outdated by today's views, the underlying values and messages remain the same; they are timeless.Some of the stories have been released previously, and some have been changed over the years.
There's not much new I can add to what's already been said about The Martian Chronicles.
His observations on human nature are spot on and even though these stories were written back in the 40's and 50's, most of them are still relevant today.
Podés encontrar esta y otras reseñas en mi blog.  Este año me propuse comenzar a leer a Ray Bradbury, un autor que tenía pendiente desde hace un montón de tiempo. Por suerte me encontré con un autor maravilloso y por fin pude ver por qué sus obras son consideradas grandes "clásicos modernos".Crónicas Marcianas es, junto a Fahrenheit 451, el libro más conocido de Bradbury. Se trata de un libro que no sigue una estructura narrativa convencional, sino que está compuesto por varios relatos (o crón
Si bien todas giran en torno al mismo tema (cómo reaccionan los seres humanos ante lo desconocido y lo propensos que somos a la violencia), la forma en la que Bradbury lo trata es brillante: vas a encontrar relatos con cierto toque humorístico, otros bastantes macabros, relatos verdaderamente hermosos que son más que nada descripciones de Marte, crónicas en las que abunda la ironía y también otras que son bastante trágicas.
Es por eso que la recomiendo incluso si no te gusta la ciencia ficción, pues no es tan "densa" como otras novelas del género.La prosa de Bradbury es impresionante y la variedad de estilos de las diferentes crónicas hacen de este libro una lectura sumamente entretenida y amena.
Enter a book like this, a classic by an author who has given man several other timeless warnings.At first I worried it’d be difficult to get into since it seemed too out there, too surreal, but it didn’t take long to grab my interest and shake off my annoyance that the visitors were being given such a hard time.
Each small story that shows a different view and time piece flies by, all leaving an impression without boring me.
Everyone leaping forward as, like an image reflected from ten thousand mirrors, ten thousand eyes, the running dream came and went, a different face to those ahead, those behind, those yet to be met, those unseen...
I vividly remember reading this book.
I was in 8th grade and I read it in Mrs. Zimmerman's class.
She also had a rusty voice-like an ex-smoker, and spoke really slowly.
I still kind of wonder if she was human.
Anyway, I read this book over and over.
As a writer, he kind of reminds me of Edgar Allen Poe. Another thing about Bradbury, I heard him speak once in college and he said that he wrote this book from the UCLA library (he wasn't a student there), he just liked to hide out in the basement.
I liked him immediately.
4.5The Martian Chronicles is a connected collection of awe- and fear-inspired stories about Martian and human existence. Wonder glazes the sky with sparks and lines of light, while dread permeates as an undercurrent. There is a touch of racism in one story. Seriously, what’s up with all the watermelon references? But if you manage to ignore that and see it as a “product of its time,” then you will find a rather marvelous collection of short stories. I’m still taking off half a point because, you know, don’t be ignorant or racist. Other than that, this is beautiful.
.I've seen this referred to as a masterpiece of science fiction, but it's less about the science and more about the faults and failures of humanity, in this case Americans.
I think Bradbury would be shocked to see the same conditions existing in the 21st century.
I'm sure many readers have avoided The Martian Chronicles because it is mid-twentith century science fiction, but Bradbury rises above the cliches' of the genre to offer a view of who we are and what we need to change before introducing ourselves to future "Martians".
How wonderful, strange and poetic this book was.
UPDATEThis recent study published in Science*, gives some reason to the imagined Dead Sea of Mars, by Ray Bradbury. (NASA scientists have determined that a primitive ocean on Mars held more water than Earth's Arctic Ocean and that the Red Planet has lost 87 percent of that water to space. NASA/GSFC)PrologueBack in the late nineties I was a member of The Planetary Society. I used to receive, at home, their magazine. I always took notice of that name: Ray Bradbury, among the long list of other fam
Bradbury got delighted.In an interview he explained how, when he was 29 years old, he went to New York: a journey of 4 days and nights by Greyhound, to get his short stories published.
The book is a collection of short stories that cover the period of about 60 years of Mars colonization by men, starting in 1999.A place with Blue Mountains,… golden fruits and houses with crystal columns.
In another story there’s a character who would like to organize Mars in a way it would resemble Earth;he,himself and fellow men conclude there’s a collective hypnosis: a woman thinking she’s still living on planet earth; a crew member thinks he meets his brother;… and Marylyn.

I wish there were more books that told a story though many short stories the way this book does (or just more that I were privy to). I would have never thought that I would enjoy this book more than Bradbury’s most famous book, Fahrenheit 451. I guess that book is more widely read because it is focused for children and they apparently read more. Everyone should read The Martian Chronicles, not just those who like science fiction.
It’s a complicated feeling.Having only read « Fahrenheit 451 », I wasn’t really sure what Bradbury’s other work would be like, but I had a feeling I’d like it because I have always enjoyed golden age sci-fi (I am a bit of a sucker for nostalgia), and the clean and evocative prose that Bradbury is often praised for.This book is a collection of related vignettes chronicling the colonization of Mars by humans in the 21st century and it is poetic, nostalgic and heartbreaking.
Rather, I think it’s Bradbury’s way of saying that if there is life on other planets, why should we assume the beings there would be that different from us?
The people who leave Earth to start new lives on Mars are trying to escape from “politics, the atom bomb, war, pressure groups, prejudice, laws” (132).
. and Golden EyedMy favorite story in the volume is “Ylla.” This is the story of the first expedition to Mars, but the beauty of the story is in its depiction of the Martian way of life before the arrival of humans.
I want to read the same ten thousand year old book of Martian philosophy that Spender finds in the moonlit ruins.
Bradbury offers hope for the human race in the final story, “The Million-Year Picnic.” The Martian Chronicles is a beautiful book.
Bradbury was primarily a writer of short fiction, the main medium for his characteristic supernatural and science fiction in the era when he started writing; this book simply collects most of the stories he composed in the 1940s set on, or related to, Mars.
He also was haunted, as were most post-World War II SF writers working in the long shadow of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, by the threat of nuclear war, and that concern is reflected in a number of the stories.Some reviewers, both on and off of Goodreads, have faulted Bradbury for a drastic lack of scientific accuracy in his portrayal of Mars, which he pictures as much more hospitable to humanoid life than it actually is.
Pero no señores, lo que Bradbury escribió hace 40 años es lo que realmente pasaría si en Marte hubiese una civilización y el ser humano fuese allí: nos la cargaríamos.
El libro es un conjunto de relatos donde se ve una evolución en el planeta: desde un sitio lleno de paz hasta la llegada de los humanos y como el planeta se va degradando.
Uno de esos clásicos que se tienen que leer.
Y no porque se le haya puesto esa etiqueta si no por la importancia y actualidad del mensaje 70 años después de escribirlo.Crónicas marcianas es una recopilación de relatos de cómo la Humanidad coloniza Marte, llevando su modo de vida allá por donde vaya y devastando todo a su paso.
Una crítica a nuestra sociedad dura pero necesaria.Y lo mejor de todo es que demuestra que se puede hablar sobre la colonización de Marte en apenas 200 páginas, y no como la trilogía interminable de mi colega Kim Stanley Robinson, de la cual todavía no me he recuperado.
Un punto para Ray Bradbury.
All things that are still unfortunately very visible in todays world.Overall I thoroughly enjoyed the book and can see me reading it again (sooner than 40 years time I'm thinking).
I've now read 2 Bradbury books in the last 6 months and know why as a teenager I read an awful lot more, I think as well as my challenges that should also be a focus of my reading.I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys SF, it is not "hard" or military or opera or any of the other genres, it's just a very good book, well written, enjoy !
But in case of this book, the five stars have nothing to do with genre.
They are about mankind, its infinite need to expand and push the boundaries: at the same time dancing on the edges of self-destruction.
Ultimately, it is about man who looks on the ruins of his own world, brought about by his own hands, and dreams of building another civilisation on top of it.Reading Ray Bradbury is the sheer, unalloyed pleasure of losing oneself among the pages of a book: of wandering unfettered through a bountiful and boundless imagination.
These stories skirt the thin boundary between hard SF and fantasy, and do it masterfully.
