https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1509416.The_Jelly_Bean
In questo bel racconto si trovano molti temi cari a Fitzgerald, la gioventù dorata dei ruggenti anni ’20, una piccola città nel Sud degli Stati Uniti: la fanciulla è bruciata dall’avidità di vivere tutto d’un fiato, deliziosa ma scriteriata, il giovane Jelly-bean (“mollaccione”) rimasto solo al mondo trascina pigramente la sua vita lavorando il minimo per sopravvivere, finchè non incontra lei.
Fitzgerald è molto bravo a rievocare conversazioni, incontri, feste da ballo alle quali non ho partecipato ed è particolarmente felice nel rappresentare Jelly-bean, il giovane di famiglia decaduta, rimasto progressivamente ai margini della vita, di bell’aspetto, goffo e di buona educazione che sfugge le donne perché non sa come affrontarle: direi che lo tratta con una certa pietas rispettosa.
Masterful and witty! I was chuckling from the first sentence itself... and incredulously, got bored only when the girl enters the guy's life. A funny trip back into the jazz age, but so lucid in illustrating the American mind that it easily applies to today.
I learned that this was meant as a sequel to "The Ice Palace" with some character name changes. Truthfully, I didn't like it nearly as much. The South did not come off as the same heaven which it had in Palace. In fact, it touched on the same dreary themes from other stories: how social popularity or unpopularity can have different brands of detriment on a character, women having trouble distinguishing themselves with integrity within those social constructs, etc. Perhaps my bias approach to this story impeded my ability to appreciate it for its own merits.
Originally published in the periodical The Metropolitan, this story was first published in book form in Tales of the Jazz Age in 1922.And F.
Scott Fitzgerald said the following about it: "This is a Southern story, with the scene laid in the small Lily of Tarleton, Georgia.
"The Jelly-Bean," published in "The Metropolitan," drew its full share of these admonitory notes.It was written under strange circumstances shortly after my first novel was published, and, moreover, it was the first story in which I had a collaborator.
I think this was an interesting story to read- for one, it was a bit different than the short stories I read before it, but also because he worked a bit with Zelda to write it.
The story is good, with classic Fitzgerald Wild Girls, but it wasn't overwhelming.
I think Fitzgerald was more than aware (as he got plenty of feedback by his own admission) that writing a good Southern story wasn't his particular skill set.
Still, the plot and content is good, even if the 'Southern-ness' of it felt like a caricature at times.
I kinda felt bad for Jim. Great read, I enjoyed it!
Sad and Sardonic: Fitzgerald.
This reminded me of The Catcher in the Rye
Di natura timida e schiva ha sempre evitato le feste ma sarà proprio una di quelle feste che in gioventù, ai tempi della scuola per intenderci, aveva tanto accuratamente evitato che, un giorno, anzi una sera, anni dopo, quando il nostro mollaccione è ormai tornato a casa dopo il periodo di ferma per la guerra, che segnerà, in un certo senso, un punto di svolta nella vita di Jim il mollaccione.Verso la fine di questa festa infatti Jim aiuterà Nancy Lamar, una ragazza che lui conosce da lungo tempo, pur non essendo mai stato eccessivamente in confidenza, anzi non essendo mai stato un suo eccessivo simpatizzante, per così dire, ad evitare una pesante perdita al gioco dei dadi.
Boring. Super fast paced in the sense that it takes away from the story. Not really sure if I even understand where it ends up. It's very vague as to how the characters feel and why they react the way they do. This is the worst F. Scott Fitzgerald work I have ever had the dissatisfaction of having read.
I loved this for the atmosphere. I have always loved Fitzgerald for his romanticism. But this was my first short story of his. And somewhat unexpectedly, I enjoyed it immensely. And yes, I felt sad for Jim.
I read this short story in Fitzgerald's Tale of the Jazz Age, and I liked it. It was sad and emphasized that popularity and a good name can be fleeting. However, I thought that it lacked the punch of some of Fitzgerald's novels.
I have arranged my thoughts into a haiku: "There's no happy endTo flimsy goals set to wooIll-conceived prizes."
Another interesting short story from Fitzgerald that was rather poignant and sad. Not a favorite of mine.
Although totally different, this story reminded me of a less-great Great Gatsby. It's not bad. It kept me interested. It read nicely. But, yeah, nothing stood out to make me love it.
It was an okay story that included some elegant phrases.
So, so, so useless! I really don't know why this was written. Might have been better as a novel. As a short story, it sucked!
I'm a fan of most all of FSF's short stories.
A hint of Fitzgerald's great writing but not much to it in terms of plot and message
Sad.....n innocently sensuous !!!!!!!!
Davvero un racconto carino.
