https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77622.Three_Doors_to_Death
An entertaining collection of three Nero Wolfe novellas: "Man Alive," a high fashion murder case, involving the appearance of a "suicide" in disguise; "Omit Flowers," a restaurant-chain millionaire family murder case Wolfe tackles as a favor to his old friend Marko; and "Door to Death," a greenhouse murder with Wolfe--looking for a temporary replacement for gardener Theodore--present at the scene of the crime.All in all, a consistent, absorbing trio of entertainments.
Nero Wolfe's friend and compatriot Marko Vukcic asked the detective to help a former great chef Virgil Pompa who is a prime and only suspect of a murder.
Still Marko Vukcic feels he owes his former mentor, so Nero Wolfe take the case and he refuses to get paid for it!
I start the plot description of most of Nero Wolfe books with the financial troubles of the great detective who finds a wealthy person in trouble, offers his services, and charges outrageous fee for the troubles.
Great. Orchids, haute cuisine, NYC pavements and landmarks from the 1940s, excellent characters.
This was three novellas. Rex Stout really knew how to write a short story. I still prefer the full length novels, but I don't mind these a bit.
Wolfe is desperate as Theodore has left for an extended period of time to care for his sick mother so Wolfe has no one to do the dirty work with the orchids.
He thinks he’s found a replacement and has actually left the brownstone to beseech Andy to come work for him.
Unfortunately, Andy’s fiance has just been killed and he’s the prime suspect so if Wolfe wants to get his orchids cared for he has to solve the crime quickly.
Wolfe actually has to sneak through the woods in the middle of the snow, falling down a couple of times.
3.5*This 16th book in the Nero Wolfe series is another which is a collection of 3 novellas.
Contains: Man AliveOmit FlowersDoor to Death Stout must have liked this format - I hadn't realized how many of the books were actually collections rather than single plots.
The 3rd story, "Door to Death", seemed very familiar & I finally realized that I had seen it on the TV show.
It stuck with me in part because Wolfe leaves his brownstone to go to Westchester county trying to "poach" a gardener skilled with orchids (Theodore has been called to a sick relative out of town).In the 2nd story, "Omit Flowers", Wolfe's friend restaurateur Marko Vukcic asks him to take up a case.
With OTT characters and rather drab exchange of words, this one feels repetitive, and the end is hopelessly improbable.
Two stars.Second one is 'Omit Flowers'.
Again OTT, but this one had an almost electric energy interspersed among all the interplay and encounters.
Five stars.Third one is 'Door to Death'.
This one is the best of the lot.
It achieves a lot of seemingly impossible things, including Nero Wolfe having physical action!!!!
Plus, the story has such nasty characters thrown on the right side of the law that I felt like going vigilante against them.
Five stars, positively.Overall, a solid collection.
three short cases of Nero and Archie/
What is better than finding an unread title of a Nero Wolfe volume by Rex Stout?
The three novellas were published in magazines in the late '40's, but Stout's writing ability and clever plotting is as fresh as ever.Archie Goodwin remains Nero Wolfe's stenographer, gofer, assistant detective and Man on the Spot for the brilliant detective who hates to leave his home as much as he hates to miss a meal.
In Door to Death, Wolfe once again leaves his lair to resolve a murder in upstate New York.
This book is a collection of three shorter Nero Wolfe stories - Man Alive, Omit Flowers, and Door to Death.In Man Alive, a young woman who was told her uncle had committed suicide believes that she has seen him a year after he vanished.
In Omit Flowers it is Nero Wolfe's closest friend, Marko, who calls upon Wolfe to free a former chef who has been arrested for murder.
Stout did shorter stories extremely well; the unlikable characters are just as unlikable as in his full-length books.
Three Doors to Death, by Rex Stout, is another compilation of three Nero Wolfe novellas, including "Man Alive" (1947), "Omit Flowers" (1948) and "Door to Death" (1949).
All three are tightly written and to the point; the last one was familiar to me from the "Nero Wolfe" television series, which is fresh enough in my memory that I could compare the filmed version to the original (there was very little variation, which speaks well for the television people).
Again, not essential Nero Wolfe, but if you like the detective and/or his sidekick Archie Goodwin, these are good way to while away an afternoon - recommended!
Wolfe, suspecting the widow and her “flock” of children, must prove the chef’s innocence by catching the real killer.In the third story, Door to Death, Wolfe finds the body of a murdered girl while trying to hire a gardener to replace Theodore while the latter is away for a family emergency.
The gardener is suspected and Wolfe must prove his innocence if he wants someone to care properly for his orchids!Of the three Nero Wolfe novels I have read this summer, this has been my favorite.
I am a past fan of Nero Wolfe books.
I have read a number of them in past years and when I ran across this one on sale for $0.99, needless to say, I grabbed it.As always, Archie's voice tells the tale.
As Nero's General factotum and dogsbody, Archie is privilege to most of the action, sometimes instigates, and in general translates Nero to the reader.As you may have guessed, Archie is one of my favorite characters and it was like welcoming a friend after a long absence.There are three cases here, engrossing in different ways.
"Three Doors to Death" is the 16th book in Rex Stout's "Nero Wolfe" series.
It's three short stories ("Man Alive," "Omit Flowers," and "Door to Death") of about 70 pages each.
The book, itself, was first published in 1950, while the short stories were first published in 1947, 1948, and 1949, respectively.
Since this is the 16th book in the series, I'll assume you know the drill: the writing is good old Stout/Wolfe writing.
That doesn't seem likely.
Yet, they can't even show a likely motive.
Anyway, those are fairly minor points and I'm still rating the book at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.
Stout, Rex. THREE DOORS TO DEATH. (1950). ***. This is a collection of three novellas collected into one book that feature the sleuthing deducctions of Nero Wolfe and his assistant Archie Goodwin. The stories are:“Man Alive,” where the setting is a fashion house in New York and a stream of beautiful ladies that temporarily set Archie off his equilibrium; “Omit Flowers,” where Nero Wolfe takes on a job for free for his friend Marko Vukcic, the owner of the only restaurant where Wolfe would deign
The stories are:“Man Alive,” where the setting is a fashion house in New York and a stream of beautiful ladies that temporarily set Archie off his equilibrium; “Omit Flowers,” where Nero Wolfe takes on a job for free for his friend Marko Vukcic, the owner of the only restaurant where Wolfe would deign to eat, and; “Door to Death,” where we find Wolfe in the wilds of West Chester County seeking to hire a replacement for his orchid keeper who had to go and visit his sick mother in Chicago.
It had to be something that critical to get Wolfe out of his house.
A delightful trio of short stories that showcases the fast wit, quick thinking, and the overall fun of the Nero Wolfe series as a whole.
It's a treat for the brain to read them, not just to try and figure out the mystery, but to simply enjoy the way the words flow.
I rarely figure out whodunit before the end, but the ride's so fun it never bothers me.
After all, I'm not trying to be Nero Wolfe.
This is collection of three short stories about Nero Wolfe.
Of course with a short story there isn't the time for a lot of twists and red herrings, but each story is a fun read.
Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin must solve three murders.
In one a young model thinks she has seen her dead uncle and Wolfe must figure out what is going on.
In the third story Wolfe is looking to hire a replacement for the man who tends his orchids.
When the new man is accused of murder Wolfe solves the case in order to get back to his beloved orchids.
Did not like. Did not finish. He is no sherlock
THREE DOORS TO DEATH (Nero Wolfe #16) by Rex Stout is three short stories written in the late 1940s that are still fun to read today.
Archie Goodwin talks us through three tales of murder and Nero Wolfe talks us through the solutions.
After her husband dies, the new owner and head of a highly successful chain of fine dining establishments decides to marry a slightly shady character and install him as president of the company.
Finally DOOR TO DEATH presents a clear cut case of murder that could only have be perpetrated by one man.
Sherlock Holmes, the "Cat Who" books and Nero Wolfe.
It took me a long time to get to this Nero Wolfe book because it was only available on cassette (how did we ever survive the 80's?).
In the third, Nero is forced to leave his brownstone to track down a replacement for his orchid horticologist, leading to said replacement being framed virtually in front of Wolfe's very eyes.
I've read something like 30 of the 38 Nero Wolfe books I've come across and have enjoyed every one.
However, that is not necessary and this book in particular can be enjoyed any time.
This is the second set of Nero Wolfe short stories I've read, and I have to admit that sometimes short is better.
I was hooked from the second paragraph where, after watching Wolfe clumsily stagger around and still remain upright, Archie remarks, "Just like Ray Bolger." If I wasn't already in love with Archie I would have fallen at that very moment.
If you've seen the series, you should read the story.
If you've read the story, you should definitely get the series and watch it.
Only the last of these three novellas ("Door to Death") made the cut into the A and E series, and there's a reason for that.
The other two push the limits of credibility too far, to the point that Wolfe finds himself bending the rules to get the evidence he's (pretty) sure is there.
Fine clothes, fine food, fine flowers are all of a piece with the rarified atmosphere breathed by the biggest of the big detectives--but somehow less satisfying than usual.
I listened to it on audiobook and it saw me through a tough week and some big chores, so I guess I'm not really complaining.
3 short stories, Man Alive, Omit Flowers and Door to Death. Man Alive, top notch clever turns of phrase but the mystery a bit forced and too much contrived business, 3 stars. Omit Flowers, solid family murder, 4 star. Door to Death, very good although out of the Brownstone and Wolfe waded a stream, 5 stars.
This book was a compilation of three mysteries solved by our intrepid investigators Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin. Each story stands on its own as long short story or short novella with each requiring Wolfe to use his intellect to solve the mystery, usually without leaving his home.
Another wonderful Wolfe book by Rex Stout. I particularly liked this one because it clearly was a political state,met on the FBI and Hoover. If you li,e who dun-it’s and you have never read a Rex Stout do yourself a favor and pick one up...
Fabulous collection of three novellas. I really enjoyed these. The introduction was good. There was an explanatory note by Archie Goodman as a preface. It was classic Archie. His logic on how the stories match up with each other to make a set was fun.
Three fine Stout/Wolfe short stories. In the third, for the first time, plot runs too fine.
Interesting short stories, but not his best.
A lot of fun. I like when Nero is forced to stray from his house. The compilation books are always a pleasure!
Audiobook performed by Michael Prichard
