https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46020.Devices_and_Desires
I only re-read books if it's so long since I read them that I barely remember them at all, (and even then it's rare).
My bookshelves are heaving with books, and I buy them quicker than I read them, so I've got to try my hardest to keep up.
And I certainly can't help thinking that if one is re-reading the same book every year, one could do with broadening our horizons a bit.
Last year I went through some of my favourite SF books of all-time, and what a joyous ride it’s been.
This is not the best James book. It's not a bad book, but it's not the best. There is one plot development that does seem to come a bit out of left field. Outside of that, this is still good James. She takes time with her characters, and this is really her strength as a writer. She shows people as human, and not a classic bad guy and good guy way. Even if we don't like a character, James still makes the reader feel something for the character, perhaps pity. This makes the people in the books human.
In this installment of the Adam Dalgliesh mystery series, her protagonist finds himself on England's sparsely populated headlands to attend to matters of his deceased aunt's estate.
Though Dalgliesh is off duty while out in the country, his proximity to events and his discovery of what seems like the latest victim while walking along the beach involve him in the mysterious events.This book, like all of James's mysteries, is filled with well-developed characters that give verisimilitude to her stories, that give real humanity to the victims, to those touched by the killings, and even to the suspects.
P.D. James's characters are so uptight. It makes you cringe, how uptight they are. Dalgliesh, going through his deceased aunt's old photos, comes across some of her with her young fiance, and feels like a voyeur looking at them. Why? They have their clothes on. What normal person would feel like a voyeur? Then he burns the photos. What normal person burns old photos?
Great character development, lots of side-plots, philosophical discussions, wonderful descriptions on the land & geography. thoroughly engrossing as well as a fantastic mystery!
Perhaps of all the Adam Dalgliesh books so far, and this is the eighth in the series by PD James, this is the one with the strongest sense of place.
Dalgiesh’s Aunt Jane has died and he visits her house, which he has inherited, both as a break after the Berowne murder [featured in the previous book, ‘A Taste for Death’] and as an opportunity to consider the house and decide whether to sell it or keep it.
It is thoughtful, considered, and very moving: about death, love, and all the big human emotions.I wonder how far ahead James planned her books.
I found this book quite boring.The main character, Adam, was hardly metioned.
I would have hoped he would have a bigger role in the book, but he was hardly in it.Instead I was served long, boring and uninteresting character descriptions, metaphors etc.
I quickly forgot one characters history/descprtion when reading about the next one.That lost my interest immediately.I want to see things move forward, but it all just went too slowly.
When everything exploded and suddenly it was interesting again.But having to read about 200 pages of character descriptions before something interesting happens, that's just not for me.
A serial killer has been murdering women...but is he murdering all the women who have been murdered?
It's not Dalgleish's case, but he's caught up in it anyay...Not my favorite of her books.
It feels like a lot of extra busywork and complexity has been added in order to muck up the reader's ability to solve the case.
A lot of social stuff about nuclear power plants that's more legerdemain than anything else.
Aaaaand most of this doesn't focus on Dalgleish, and his "replacement" isn't nearly as engaging a character.Still lots better than a poke in the eye with a sharp book.
I really need to stop reading P.D. James.
My understanding is that plenty of people love her, but this is the third book I've read and finished only out of a sense of duty.
I'm not sure whether this was just to do something new, or to give us fascinating insights on what it's like to be involved in a murder case when you're not the police, but I wasn't impressed.
James can be terse when she chooses: in the present mystery she wastes precious little time or text on acts of killing (stopping just short of the deed or taking up shortly after).
Unlike other characters, however, the power plant cannot indulge in the extended internal monologues that are so much a feature of James’s style.The plot unfolds in an individual sort of way.
How many mysteries can you name in which a murderer plots the deed to insure that other characters will have credible alibis?
The protagonist, Adam Dalgliesh, was a bit of a bore -- a mythic, fantasy Man, wading through a sea of more flawed (and, thus, more interesting) characters.
Despite the quantity of description and dialogue, the narrator often resorted to simply telling the reader how a character was feeling.
Once in a while, this might have been interesting, but as it was, it made the characters seem uncharacteristically uptight and diminished the impact of the dialogue.With all of that said, I enjoyed the basic plot, even with some heavy-handed bits at the end.
I wouldn't necessarily avoid another James novel, but won't be hunting for them either.
I have been staying up late every evening for the last week trying to finish this great book.
The title "devices and desires" come from several references interspersed throughout the book about the evil and often incomprehensible "devices and desires" of the human heart.
At one point, overwhelmed by the evil around her, one of the characters asks herself how she can ever hope to understand her own heart so that she might know the difference between the the urging of conscience and human desire."Oh what a wretched man that I am!
It's just beautifully written - some great observations on human character, and really well structured.
I am ashamed to say I don't tend to read many books by female authors, but I think perhaps she observes human nature as well as any other modern author I have come across.
I seem to mention in many of my reviews that I will now track down other books by the same author - certainly I will do so with PD James --- but there's so many books, so little time.
The edition I read of Devices and Desires was one of those tubby paperbacks with the glossy cover in bas relief which I avoid, assuming them to be formulaic thrillers, not detective novels.
Ms. James does write real detective novels, and though the leisurely unfolding of the various subplots throughout 400 plus pages seemed verbose, I must admit these subplots satisfactorily dovetailed with each other, and contributed to the theme, which is the God-centered nature of human conscience.
In this book, Adam Dalgliesh spends a holiday on the Norfolk coast, and quickly becomes involved in the investigation of some local murders.
What starts out as a very straightforward police procedural quickly turns into an intricate examination of character, as we find out that most of the local residents, whether complicit in the murders or not, have hidden motives and reasons to lie to the police and to each other.
(He does solve the mystery, though.)I found the book quite compelling, although one or two of the revelations about the characters stretched credibility.
PD James and I seem to have a pattern.
I start off, engaged and interested.
Then, as the grisly details unfold, I (again) notice that there frequently is a deviant sexual undertone/fetish associated with the crimes, and I sigh heavily, roll my eyes, and think to myself, "this will be the last one I read.
This is getting old".
But, I keep reading, as I'm making my deductions, etc.
(She usually fools me--but not all the time!) Yup, she's done her job.Then, as she reveals the Who/What/When/Where/Why, the captivation returns.
Then, she ends with a gorgeous, self-reflective, elegantly final closing paragraph or two...and I soften.Will I read yet another?
This is a delightfully complex story insofar as it involves so many plausible suspects. I enjoyed this more than the admittedly few others by P. D. James that I've read thus far. The only real disappointment for me was that for an Adam Dalgliesh mystery, he played rather a minor role and I had expected him to fill the chief inspector slot in solving the mystery. Nevertheless, I shall continue reading in this series,as I love James' rich use of language and vocabulary. A thinking man's writer indeed.
Definitely a good story with lots of characters to care about - lots of room for one's own thoughts. There are a lot of subplots - about marriages, births, siblings, aging and death. And oh,yes, nuclear power plants, terrorism and bullies. Lots of options for the killer - all very plausible.She always makes me wish I had an old (well kept, of course) house, somewhere on a isolated stretch of the British coast.
P.D. James was a gifted author who happened to create complex mysteries. I'm working my way through all of the Adam Dalgliesh series. Many of them are set in either Suffolk or Norfolk. Her characterizations are splendid. Dalgliesh is a noted poet as well as the best detective at Scotland Yard. This one had to do with rural natives and the people from the new nuclear energy plant on the shore near them. Extremely great mystery! Dense with setting and unique characters.
She had a reputation for being pretty conservative and I think that definitely came out in her writing, but in other ways she surprised me.The book itself is a pretty enjoyable old school British detective mystery that takes place on a dreary headland in Norfolk.
Her depiction of a communist threat is almost cartoonish.Beyond that there was this mournful kind of nostalgic feel to her writing.
In the end I thought it was an enjoyable mystery, with great descriptive writing and setting.
Listened to in audio format.I have read a lot of the Commander Dalgleish series and found there either fantastic or so, so.Devices and Desires is in the fantastic category.
The windmill is near Larksowen nuclear power station.
During a dinner party AD attends an eyewitness tells the party, the victims are found with pubic hair stuffed in their mouths and a L carved in their foreheads.AD finds the body of Hilary Robarts the administrator of Larksowen murdered on the beach.
Her body shows the hallmarks of being a victim of The Whistler.
To the nuclear campaigner she was suing for libel.This was definitely one of my top 3 favourites in the Commander Dalgleish series.
The moment that resonated with me the most was when the local police officer reflects on the moment that Dalgliesh insulted him when they worked together in London, a moment where he has the clarity to know that they were both tired, acting out of character, that Dalgliesh does not remember and that by holding onto this moment, he is harbouring resentment towards a man he would otherwise respect and be friends with--and he also acknowledges that he will never overcome a resentment he knows is meaningless.
Dalgliesh’s Aunt Jane dies leaving him the windmill on the N.E. Coast of Norfolk. When he goes there to clear up her estate he finds himself unexpectedly involved in the local hunt for a serial killer. The staff of the nearby nuclear power plant become suspects when one of their own is murdered. James gives us her usual interesting but rather unappealing characters with the usual sordid secrets. Lots of descriptions, some beautifully written, of the striking locale, lots of introspective philosophizing by Dalgliesh and others, and a lot of action including a fire and a dramatic boat crash.
A serviceable small-cast British detective novel set near a nuclear power plant shortly after Chernobyl, it suffers throughout from a somewhat fussy darn-these-modern-times pursing of lips, which naturally looks a bit mawkish 35 years down the pike. More importantly, there is a bizarre chapter at about the 4/5 point which, shall we say, breaks genre conventions, and not in a good way. I found that bit ever so slightly embarrassing to read.
Está bien, tiene misterio e intriga pero se me ha hecho demasiado denso en la mayoría de las ocasiones. Lees y lees y poca cosa pasa.
Superb. Listen to a 1989 audiobook read by Michael Jayston.
I think this is another case where the form of the book takes an approach that does not match up with what the author is trying to preach in the novel itself.
She wants her book to be more than just a detective novel with all of her musings about life, religion, and etc., but she also has to stick to a very tight writing formula.
Throwing in a bunch of extremely emotionally damaged people with questionable pasts might be a standard device in detective novels, but it doesn't work that way in real life and the author should have known better.
Alors qui ?L'enquête est suffisamment embrouillée pour tenir le lecteur en haleine jusqu'au bout ; P.D. James nous entraîne sur de fausses pistes avec la virtuosité d'une grande professionnelle ; les services secrets finissent par intervenir comme un cheveu sur la soupe, et le croirez-vous ?
Another of PD James's long, convoluted, cerebral, plot-driven mysteries which sometimes make you think to yourself (especially mid-book), "come on, get on with it!" but at the end leave you with a satisfied sigh.
Unlike many more modern mystery series, the Adam Dalgliesh books are all about the mystery itself, not about befriending the main character.
Since this is the 8th book in series, we do feel like we're getting to know Adam better, but much of the space is spent telling things from the point of view of the various suspects and even (before she dies) the victim.
The late PD James ranks as one of the greatest British mystery writers and I usually am fascinated with her books featuring Cmdr.
Adam Dalgliesh of Scotland Yard.
First, Dalgliesh has a rather secondary part as the murders are not on his turf.....he is only visiting the area.
Secondly, the story is pretty far-fetched for a James novel and it gets too convoluted toward the end.
Don't get me wrong.....I truly enjoy James' books but this one is low on my list.
