https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6202342-her-fearful-symmetry
Here’s a question: What would you do if you had an overbearing, bossy twin sister whom you needed to get away from??a.
Bear with it – she’s family after all.b. Elope with your middle-aged boyfriend.c. Get your parents involved and have a long family chat.d. Willingly die, and then try to resurrect yourself without her knowledge.??The meek twin in this story...
she goes for option d.......This book was full of really absurd people doing really absurd things.
The only way I managed to finish this was by lounging in front of the TV with a cricket match on and skimming though chapters during commercials.Having read and liked The Time Traveler's Wife, I was expecting this to be...well, not so terrible.Very disappointed.
Elspeth Noblin dies & leaves her London flat, which overlooks Highgate Cemetery, to her nieces, 20-year-old American twins Julia & Valentina.
I’m OK with ambiguity & a willing suspension of disbelief, but if a writer is doing a book about a creepy cemetery; ghosts; weird twin girls who dress in white; twin-swapping; & grave-robbing – it really helps if the writer gives us some clues as to who is good and who’s bad!
Niffenegger is one of the finest contemporary writers and noone does longing and stymied love better than she does.This book reminded me of "Time Traveler's Wife" as well as "The Lovely Bones." The stories center on an apartment building right off of Highgate Cemetery in London.
The top floor apartment is occupied by Martin, who suffers terribley from OCD.
Niffenegger's rendering of OCD is the most painful and seemingly realistic depiction that I've come across.
Elspeth's somewhat younger lover lives in the first floor apartment and works as a tour guide at Highgate Cemetery.
This book definitely got me thinking and I like it when a book does that - when it stays in my mind for a long time after I actually finished reading it.Her Fearful Symmetry is definitely a challenging book.
I would say that is the only similarity between the two books, that and Audrey's beautiful writing style.This book got me thinking about a lot of things, but primarily about the relationship between twins.
After finishing the book though, I did realize they were important chapters since those attributes of the characters had great bearing on the story to follow.As in The Time Traveler's Wife, the one thing I struggled with in this book was the ease with which the characters accepted that which is not normal.
Again, through at least the first 2/3 of the book, I was willing to suspend disbelief and go with the story.
Essentially a ghost story, Her Fearful Symmetry features two sets of twins, the older Elspeth and Edie, and Edie’s daughters Valentina and Julia.
Her twin sister and nieces have not seen her in more than 20 years, as a rift between Elspeth and Edie as well as distance (Edie lives in Chicago) drove them apart.
Elspeth leaves everything to the twins, stipulating that they live in her London apartment for a year and their parents are not allowed to visit.
Another Audrey Niffeneger book where I'm not sure what or who I'm supposed to root for.
-I don't know who or what to root for.
She has a great sense of place.-I visualize the story taking place almost in Gorey-style animation, like the opening credits of Mystery!.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAmGsM...-The secondary characters were really well-drawn.-It is a ghost story with a proper sense of dread.
-Some things that happen in the story made me feel the dread and wrongness in my belly as a physical reaction.-I couldn't put it down.-Like is the wrong word.
Without a doubt Niffenegger's prose is elegant, her place descriptions (London and Highgate Cemetery) are exceptional, and her intricate plot has great promise.That promise is not fulfilled.Niffenegger speaks of ghosts that dissipate in to the ether, so to speak, because they haven't been dead long enough to figure out how to keep themselves together and harness their intent.
Could have been, but it wasn't.At best, most of the characters were totally dysfunctional with the possible exception (oddly enough) of the man with OCD who lived in the flat upstairs, up above the American twins who come to London when their aunt (Espeth) dies and leaves them an apartment up above Robert who works as a volunteer at the adjoining Highgate Cemetery.
I read Niffenegger's first novel before the days of GR; and I remembered when I decided to rate it, I wavered between 3 (liked it) and 4 stars (really liked it).
I ended up opting for 4 stars, because I did remember so much of it due to its sense of place and its unique storytelling.
Her second novel has these same elements -- her strengths are obviously her imaginative story lines, which she roots in concrete reality.
But the story, which started out strong, lost its way long before the weak ending.My strongest complaints, though, are with some of the writing.
Audrey Niffenegger’s ‘Her Fearful Symmetry’ is for the most part, a good, solid old fashioned ghost story with a contemporary setting.
There are nods to Dickens throughout, echoes of Susan Hill and notably (to an extent) Mary Shelley.‘Her Fearful Symmetry’ – is Niffenegger’s second novel and is a far less showy or flashy affair than its predecessor, the hugely commercially successful – ‘The Time Traveler’s Wife’.
As a whole ‘Her Fearful Symmetry’ is better written thought out and delivers a stronger narrative as well as a more satisfying story than ‘Time Traveler’s Wife’.
I have never read The Time Traveler's Wife, Ms. Niffenegger's claim to fame, and after reading Her Fearful Symmetry it is very likely I never will. This was not a bad book by any means but for me it simply failed to deliver the "goose bumpy" moments I so sincerely hoped for.Highgate Cemetary, London England. All the variables were there, there were creepy mirror twins, cooky neighbors, a spooky cemetery, a mystery to be solved and even a ghost in residence. But nope, just because the variables w
All the variables were there, there were creepy mirror twins, cooky neighbors, a spooky cemetery, a mystery to be solved and even a ghost in residence.
There were only three truly Gothic aspects of this novel and all were totally wasted.
While Niffeneger clearly did her research on Highgate Cemetery, it was delivered in sections that felt more like lectures than quality fiction.
Only one aspect of the whole novel achieved this, and it was dropped into the plot near the end, executed swiftly, and then rushed so much you could literally miss it.So damn it, I wanted this to be more than it was.
I loved those classes because we would debate/discuss the significance of women and their relationships with other women and with men.
I wish I could have one of "those" discussions regarding this book!This book is excellent on so many different layers and levels, my head is still considering them all.I was hesitant to pick up this book, because I had such a love/hate relationship with Audrey's "Time Traveler's Wife." However, I'm so glad I picked up this book.
The language was clean and there was no "carnal" sex in this book (unlike my opinion of Time Traveler's Wife).
It's like this was a first draft of the ghost story she really wanted to write, and it got accidentally published by mistake.
Or maybe the sex scenes were supposed to be scrubbed out and it was intended to be a young adult novel?I'm almost sorry I read this - I waited so long for it to come out, and I wish I were still waiting, imagining how wonderful it will be when it's finally published.
Perhaps I'm a little biased, but I think I'll go re-read A Fine and Private Place to cleanse my palate and remind myself of what a good ghost story can be like.
Her Fearful Symmetry is a Victorian ghost story set in contemporary London, fittingly in and near a graveyard.
In her will Elspeth left her apartment and almost all her belongings to twin nieces Julia and Valentina, but attached odd conditions.
Elspeth and her sister Edie are identical twins.
Julia and Valentina are mirror-twins.
His problem is so intense that Marjike, his wife of 25 years has finally had enough and has moved back to the Netherlands.
Valentina forms a strong friendship and then a more-than-friends relationship with Robert, another parallel.
This is an engaging, fun read, offering believable characters, an intriguing premise, and some nifty twists.
Just some thoughts: I loved this novel...but in a completely different way than I love The Time Traveler's Wife.
I wasn't sure what to expect so I tried not to have any expectations, which is exactly the attitude to have going into this book.
It has a few curveballs, so don't bother reading ahead (like I did...only to confuse myself until I read straight through--must get rid of this terrible habit!).
I had that "I *have* to talk to someone else who's read it" feeling after I read it, and that's one of the things I love most about books: sharing them.
When Elspeth dies, she leaves her papers to her boyfriend and her flat to her twin's children, the twin sisters Julia and Valentina.
She knows the specifics of their lives--what kind of wine they like, how they brush their teeth, what they feel at 3 in the morning.
Instead of just leaving in the night, or having a fight with Julia and then leaving, Valentina is sure that the only way is to kill herself, have a funeral, and then come back to life via's Elspeth's ghostly powers.
Not only is this the worst plan I've ever heard, but then Elspeth and Robert decide to go along with it because hey, otherwise she might try to kill herself for realsies.
To say too much about these relationships would be to give away bits of the plot, but let me just say it was not at all what I expected, and the title word "fearful" is definitely apt.While this story lacked (for me, at least) some of the magic of The Time Traveler's Wife, it is just as artfully written and explores the intricacies of relationships with the same deftness and insight as Niffenegger's earlier work.
The description of the twin sisters, Julia and Valentina, portrays them as almost ghost-like as well.
She's interesting and easy to read and introduces characters with unbelievable (literally, unbelievable) problems like time-travelling or being a ghost with remarkable credibility.
I felt like I was reading the book version of a campy Frankenstein movie.
It almost felt like she wrote part of it with a movie in mind.
One set of twins switched identities.
Isn't that just about the oldest twin prank in the book?
Don't most books using twins as main characters use the same plot twist?
"The Time Traveller's Wife" this is not; TTW was a poignant story about normal people trying to live in, and make sense of, an abnormal situation.
I suggest borrowing this book from the library until you have read it and have a better sense of whether or not you want to add this to your personal library.I suspect that Anne Tyler could have made a good book about Martin and Marijke, who I found to be more likable and (OCD aside) more grounded than Elspeth, Robert or the twins.
Many thanks to Regal Literary for sending me an ARC, and also to Audrey for accepting my invitation to appear here for a Q&A session!!I don't think there is a more fitting time of year for curling up with this novel - Chilly mornings, Damp afternoons, wrapped in a blanket watching the leaves change color and fall to the ground....It's a ghost story but so much more.
It's a story about transition, about love, about separation, about strength, about deciet, about abandonment.
It's hopeful, and sad, and wonderful, and pathetic, and confusing, and thrilling.It's everything a good book should be.
There are two love stories at the heart of this novel: the love of twins, and love that is cracked, but not broken.
All of the lines of the novel point out love that is changed by death, but never broken.
As with The Time Travelers Wife, each character makes moral choices that make sense within the narrative, but one has to question in the broader sense.However, it is this complexity of choice that has fascinated me about Neffenegger's writing.
As a novel of love, I am reminded: love is never perfect, love changes over time, but it is seldom broken.
Such a disappointment.While I certainly didn't expect this to be a clone of The Time Traveler's Wife (and I hate when authors write the same novels over and over, like, say, Jodi Picoult), this book was exponentially "less than" TTTW.The main characters (Julia and Valentina the twins, Robert Fanshaw, Elspeth) were not likable or warm.
Elspeth's experience as a ghost kept me engaged for a time, but at the end my sympathies for her, wane.The secondary characters of Martin and his wife were intriguing.
I am now BITTER LIKE A BITTER, BITTER THING that this book, however panned it was, got its author a zillion-dollar advance and huge print run, while Peter S. Beagle's A Fine and Private Place, a wonderful book that actually combines the supernatural and the natural world beautifully, is still barely known. Pah.
this book is like an episode of the twilight zone on crack combined with a shakespeare tragedy.

One of the things I loved about TTW is how the main characters felt like real, fleshed out people.
They're interesting (we have two sets of twins, a man with severe OCD, and people who work in the cemetery), but they never managed to become more than characters in a book.
I don't want to give it away, because there are some really good twists and turns, but the whole final portion of the book is the result of a character making a completely ridiculous decision.
I like what resulted from the decision - the ending is completely satisfactory in a morbid, tragic way - but I keep getting stuck on the absurdity.
In fact, I think the author would have been better off skipping the utterly silly and twisted ghost story and sticking to the wife leaving the brilliant man with OCD.
By the time the twins got to London, I didn’t like them any better, but the relationship started to change and I thought that certainly this was a good thing.
Gee, what this story needs is further complication.When Elspeth the Ghost kills the kitten, I admit that I almost lost it and gave up on the book.
Throw a huge cemetery, a cold & wintery London, bizzare mirror twins, a ferrel kitten and a recntly dead Aunt into a pot together and the result is a wonderfully quirky, melancholoy, spooky book.The story is set around Highgate Cemetery in London where a recently dead Elspeth has left her appartment to her twenty year old American nieces, Julia and Valentina, who are mirror twins.
When the twins arrive in their new home they soon learn that they are not alone as it appears their Aunt Elspeth has never left.
I lean towards three only because The Time Traveler's Wife is one of my favorite books of all time and so my expectations were high.
I think my favorite part had to be the history of Highgate Cemetary that was woven in throghout the book.
(Now that I'm writing my review I lean toward four stars.) And the ending was very cool.
I think this is because I read the author's graphic novel, The Three Incestuous Sisters, and while these characters weren't incestuous, they had a very unnerving relationship.3.5 stars.
I had to make myself read it slowly so that I could savor every morsel of the spell it cast on me when I would read it.At the center of this novel are twin sisters who inherit their aunt's flat near Highgate Cemetery in London.
While Niffenegger seems to still be obsessed with relationships with large age differences (16 years in this case), she also delves into the topics of suicide, bodysnatching, and ghostly possession in interesting ways.I found it interesting that the book is written in 3rd person, yet I felt like I was able to be inside the heads of so many strange, lonely people.
The book I'm looking for is one that winds its way into your heart and soul, takes you deep into the characters' lives and then squashes your heart, rips it from your chest and leaves it beating weakly on the table while you weep.
So when I was desperately craving heartbreak in a book, I asked my husband to please buy Her Fearful Symmetry for me on his way home from work.
I hope I don't have to wait another six years for Niffenegger's next book - that would be truly heartbreaking.
