https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211867.Black_Power
I found Black Power in a high school friend's collection while visiting him in Springfield, Vermont.I'd been brought up in a pronouncedly anti-racist home.
In any case, by the junior year of high school I thought that Dad would like it if I went to the University of Chicago, became a civil rights and liberties attorney and married a Jewish intellectual.
Indeed, when I got suspended and expelled from Maine Twp. H.S. South for political acts, Dad was actively supportive of me against the school's right-wing administration.One of the most challenging aspects of leftist politics in the sixties was black separatism.
We will also contribute to the development of a viable larger society; in terms of ultimate social benefit, there is nothing unilateral about the movement to free black people (11)They write 'we offer no pat formulas in this book for ending racism...our aim is to offer a framework...to ask the right questions, to encourage a new consciousness and to suggest new forms which express it' (11-12).
One party must not blindly assume that what is good for one is automatically good for the other.there is a clear need for genuine power bases before black people can enter into coalition...Civil rights leaders who ...
FOR MYSELF it was to akin to listening to one of my older uncles talk, and talk all day about how the world is wrong and explain in detail what is wrong with it yet they do noting and give no advice on how to solve the problems they see.If you’re looking for a book to explain everything that "the man", "America" and everybody else has done to black people then get this book.If you want some "solutions" and or "methods" on improving yourself as a black person or a person in general I'd get "the mis-education of the negro" and read this later.I really wanted to like this book but I could not.
Been learning some great things from this so definitely wanted to add it. Stokely is an underrated treasure from the Black Power Movement era.
Black people were allowed to register, to vote and to participate in politics, because it was to the advantage of powerful white "allies" to permit this.
That era of black participation in politics was ended by another set of white decisions." (p.
Washington--that black folks just needed to lift themselves up, educate themselves, ready themselves for full civic participation in American society by focusing on self-improvement, and then benevolent white people would see that and hand over their fair share of power.
Not only was it trustworthy, this communication was necessary.One of my favorite parts of this book, in terms of content, is the first paragraph in the preface:“This book is about why, where and in what manner black people in America must get themselves together.
The book references black labor, civil rights and integration and challenges ones ignorance around them.
Relevance: 1/1Not much has changed in the black community in terms of power and independence since this book was written, so it is just as relevant now as it was then.Impact: 1/1This book impacted me in a very positive and hopeful way.
While the rest of the afterword holds a patient and intellectual argument for the continued necessity of Black Power, one can sense in his retort that these critiques were particularly blistering for Hamilton and that he had argued the point many times before."No matter that some explanations focused on the denial of these charges and attempted to discuss the concept in terms of viable pluralist American politics.
Articulate and farseeing, Carmichael and Hamilton present their point-of-view on the socioeconomic problems exacerbating racial tensions in the late '60s.
What struck me most about this book were the aspects discussed by Carmichael that have in no way been solved today.
The authors point out the underlying reasons for urban and rural poverty, and those reasons continue unabated.
It makes me wonder how our society has succeeded for sweeping these problems under the rug for so long.
I imagine the rampant drug problems in urban spaces have acted as a smokescreen that allows us to obsess over a consequence rather than the root issue.
This isn't for your enjoyment, it's for your FREEDOM.Thought-provoking and awe-inspiring.
Ture and Hamilton have helped to lay a foundation for the us, their future.
They've given use the manuscript on how to take control on our lives and what we deserve as human beings.
This book not only tells of the corrupted lives of the government and it's "personal" relationship with big business, but of the re-education that needs to be done because of it!
McDonald's will receive more money from the government this year to feed us fake food than will go out for school scholarships.
And we need to do something about it.
There are too many history books written by white Americans floating around and being used as required readings in Australia and it needs to stop, there are so many stories, people, perspectives being missed.
These doubts become the seeds of pernicious self- and group-hatred, the Negro's complex and debilitating prejudice against himself." Personally, as a white Australian, I don't know much about the black power movement, let alone the Aboriginal histories of the nation I call home, however, I am reading books like this to educate myself, and highly recommend all to do so as well.
This book is from the 1960's, so race relations in the US have progressed a bit since then, but I suspect that in much of the South and urban inner-city areas this book is still very relevant.
The trendy-popular notion that the US is really 12-13 nations/societies squished together is supported by reading books like this.
My area has racism too, but it is not centered around Black and White.
I also liked the bits about political strategies used during the civil rights movement by people who had so little leverage to use towards gaining group power.
“There is no ‘American dilemma’ because black people in this country form a colony, and it is not in the interest of the colonial power to liberate them.
Blacks people are legal citizens of the United States with, for the most part, the same legal rights as other citizens.
Yet they stand as colonial subjects in relation to the white society.
Thus institutional racism has another name: colonialism.”Ture and Hamilton’s “Black Power” is a necessary read for those wanting to learn about institutional racism and how to move forward.
Their theory of internal colonization is thought provoking and has since inspired others to study racial inequality through this lens.
Read it, digest it, buy a few copies to share with others if you can. Encourage your librarian to acquire it and and keep an electronic copy in your digital library as well to reference and share the ideas and valuable lessons in the book. If you have been newly or recently politically activated this should be one of your first reads if not your first.
The book includes various case studies of political/community organizations, and predominately Black cities as well as deep examinations of strategies Black people can and should employ in our fight for our liberation from racist, capitalist, and inequitable system and institutions.
54-55)><“The adoption of the concept of Black Power is one of the most legitimate and healthy developments in American politics and race relations in our time…It is a call for Black people in this country to unite, to recognize their heritage, to build a sense of community.
it stresses the importance of black people controlling their own institutions & thus, their own lives.
Overall, it's a good book & a good starting point for understanding some things necessary for black unity & empowerment.
If black people are ever to be free, we definitely need control over our lives, all aspects of it & this book stresses that need.
It has its limits but it is definitely a good start.
reading at least the first 3 chapters should be a requirement in high school.
if the history and mechanics of racism, individual and institutional, was actually taught in schools instead of the vague "bad thing that happened but its all better now, mlk jr civils rights" that i remember learning, i'm sure there'd be at least a lot less white stupid calls of "but that's reverse racism!".
the rest of book is still incredibly relevant, see the emphasis on black visibility not being equal to black power, especially against the claim of the usa being a "post-racial" country now with nobel prize winner president barack obama in office.
both are incredibly powerful, even after 40 and 20 years respectively.
Very thought-provoking because of their thoroughness in looking at multiple issues.
A must-read for anyone mildly interested in racial politics, since Carmichael and Hamilton clearly analyze the need for "Black Power," as defined by them and not the mass media.
It would be a fascinating study to extend their vision (set in a very specific political time period) to the present, and look at the significant roadblocks, locally-nationally-internationally, to their projected vision of what was needed for the so-called "Black Community." Too much to discuss about this book!!
At first I thought maybe I had read this book before, but in fact I just think that the ideas formed the basis of my Black Studies program in college. I appreciate that this book is written without a lot of jargon and does a great job at explaining institutional racism. It's very focused on electing black politicians, but also speaks out against capitalism in general. While written in 1967, many of these problems are still very relevant today.
Sort of startling how incisive this book was in terms of organizing for community power and local control and the forces of acquiescence and assimilation that one must combat in order to have any meaningful form of it. Having grown up with Tuskeegee, Alabama being the closest town it was interesting to read the history of the city and the university. Fantastic but depressing read considering how little has changed...
I'm not that qualified on the subject to write a proper review for this book, but it was enlightening for me to read it. It should be recommended in schools readings, its subject and the way of dealing with it are in my opinion still relevant nowadays, even more if I may say so.
I have wanted to read this for nearly a decade. It felt so good to finally read it and have so much of it (in terms of alliances and power) relatable to situations happening today. If I ever taught history, this would be a requirement.
"Those of us who advocate Black Power are quite clear in our own minds that a non-violent approach to civil rights is an approach black people cannot afford and a luxury white people do not deserve." This is a radical novel focusing on cause and effect.
I am familiar with what the Black Power Movement came to be but this book details what it was intended to be. It's pretty short and makes you realize how skeletal the plan was....which may account for why the movement took on a life of its own.
This may seem weird on my bookshelf, it was for a class and I found it very informative and interesting. Though cannot in good conscious justify giving a book on black power more than a 3 star rating.
Read in college.
A classic of Black protest literature.
sadly, it's more fun listening to Stokely speak then reading his writings.
must read for anyone who believes in any kind of self determination
I love my man Kwame Ture...He lays everything out perfectly.
This is a great book to understand the politics behind the Black Power movement of the sixties.
