https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32638.The_Thief_of_Always
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Ten-year-old Harvey Swick is invited to Mr. Hood’s Holiday House, a thousand-year-old dwelling that welcomes children to enjoy its rapidly changing seasons, explore its grounds filled with mythical creatures, and partake of the delicious meals prepared by the house cook, Mrs. Griffin. At first, Harvey thinks Holiday House is the best thing that’s ever happened to him, but he soon discovers not all is as it
I’ll die!” Upon being escorted to Holiday House, Harvey immediately recognizes the dwelling as a “place built for games, chases and adventures.” He spends a considerable amount of time at the house being perfectly content; there’s a painful lack of conflict.
(view spoiler)[“Come with me to the Holiday House.” (14)  “You’re real,” he said, as he stood panting on the porch.
“You are, aren’t you?” He started to laugh at the foolishness of talking to a House, but the smile went from his face as a voice, so soft he was barely certain he heard it, said: “What do you think, child?” (50) “It’s the House of Always.” (62)If he’d remained in the House of Illusions .
That is, until a creature tells him all about a place called the Holiday House, where you can have anything you wish for and it is Christmas every evening.It's not very often that I read a book that completely changes my outlook on life.
Upon starting the book there were so many comments from people who said this book changed their life or that it was the gateway book into the wonderful world of reading...
However I look forward to reading this to my kids someday - or any kids - hell, maybe I'll just start reading it to random kids on the street.It's so amazing to me that children's books are often the ones that teach you the most valuable lessons.
Sooooooooo, I mentioned that I had sworn off Mr. Clive Barker yeeeeeeeears ago- due to squeamishness- Ms. Stepheny called me on it- and said, "PLEASE...
PLEASE...PLEASE- read THE THIEF OF ALWAYS before making your final judgement on allllllllll of his work".
Okay, Stepheny, I stand corrected- not all of his work is GROSS.
[image error]10-year-old Harvey Swick is bored...bored, bored with school.
Bored with the dreary weather, and bored with his day-to-day life.
BORED bore...boooooooriiiiiing...great grey beast of February.
Just as Harvey is wallowing in his dull, cruel, childhood- a man named Rictus flies up to his window and offers him an exciting alternative.[image error]The Holiday House!!!
My little self knew what it was talking about for once.This story is about a ten year-old boy by the name of Harvey Swick.
Harvey spends a great first day, but then things start going downhill, and Harvey says, “Looks like it’s up to ME!”Let’s break it all down now:There is greatness in this story through the writing alone.
My all-time favorite illustration was Harvey as Barker’s version of a vampire (probably one of my favorite scenes, too):This is just beautiful.
Our story goes through a single month and a few days through the life of 10 year-old Harvey Swick.
You’ll love him.Have you read any Barker?
Then I saw Stephen King saying that Clive Barker is the future of the horror genre.
Everyone knows this.I took the encouragement of some of my goodreads friends and went with it.
I decided to go with the Thief of Always as it was one of the ones that was being recommended by the ones who know me best.
It reads like a favorite children’s book blended with horror and gore.
I loved it and cannot wait to read more of Clive Barker.
I liked this one well enough, and it's a quick read (or would have been if I didn't have this need to make new levels in Mario Maker, anyway).
Appreciate the time you have with your family, even when it's lame, because you never know when it might be taken away from you.
I probably would have liked this a bit more had I read it when I was in the target age range, but still, it's a good story.
It did annoy me that the cats behaved like humans though.
That's all, for realsies this time.
But, sadly I only just read it now at age 41 but since I'm still a huge lover of children's fiction (especially dark children's fiction) I still found this story to be every bit as magical and scary as it intended to be.This is my first Clive Barker book that I've finished.
Gone and The Great and Secret Show but didn't finish either of them--not for me).But wow, I love this book.
Anyone who loves magic, creepy illustrations and dark creatures.
Who wouldn't love THAT??Read this at Halloween, Christmas or when it's a dark and stormy night.
Harvey Swick is ten years old and bored out of his skull.
He just wants to have some fun.
His smile is all sharp teeth and is as wide as his face, but he has a glib tongue and promises Harvey all kinds of fun.
Plenty of playmates, the coolest treehouse ever, and a house that is almost too good to be true await Harvey.
A magical story aimed toward the kiddos, but that managed to keep this oldster's interest with no trouble at all.
Illustrations drawn by the author are a great addition to a fine story.
Great book to read on a rainy day. What I liked the most (apart from story) are the illustrations. They were really creepy, and reminded me of Neil Gaiman's Coraline, which is one of my favorite books. The story is also similar to Coraline, but it does have its twists. Really fun and fast read, and looking forward to reading more books from this author. The guy knows how to tell a good story.
And I stand by my judgment.Plus, this book has one of the best opening lines I have ever read: "The great, gray beast February had eaten Harvey Swick alive."Can't beat that.Harvey Swick is ten years old, and like so many ten year-old boys, he is bored with his life.
There is no better place for children, Rictus said, than Mister Hood's Holiday House.Thinking about it, given that Harvey was willing to follow a strange man to a mysterious house without much consideration for his safety, suggests either that Harvey is not very bright, or Rictus is extremely persuasive.
”I know a place where the days are always sunny, and the nights are full of wonders.”  Said the small man who mysteriously appears in Harvey's bedroom on a blustery rainy day. The day is a day in February, the worst of months. The month that swallows the hope of summer. Before the man can fill further promise, he is gone, but with the words, “Watch for me!” Perhaps it had only been a dream.The man called Rictus does appear again, floating down from a cloud in his puffed-up coat. This time thoug
Said the small man who mysteriously appears in Harvey's bedroom on a blustery rainy day.
The day is a day in February, the worst of months.
So Harvey walks with him to a place Rictus names Holiday House, a walk still within the limits of his small town, but somehow into an area he's never seen before.
“Stay as long as you like Harvey.
You deserve a little time off.”My first Clive Barker book.
Like The Graveyard Book by Gaiman, I understand this has become a classic - for all ages, not just kids.
It's like going back in time.

Ένα εκπληκτικό παραμύθι, για μικρούς και μεγάλους!!! Άλλοτε τρομακτικό, άλλοτε κλειστοφοβικό αλλά πάντα με μια θετική ματιά. Επηρεασμένος σαφέστατα από την Αλίκη στην χώρα των θαυμάτων ο Μπάρκερ μας δίνει ένα διαχρονικό διήγημα...
Creepy!Harvey is 10 and bored...Soooooo bored...So when he is offered the chance of visiting a holiday house with unlimited food and presents, where it is spring, summer, autumn and winter all in one day how can he resist! [image error]Buuutttt...All is not what it seems and soon things take a turn for the sinister.This is a dark and fantastical tale that is ultimately about what it is to be human.
Try to break free, and swim with the fishes.Clive Barker's prose is brilliant; I can think of no other word that clearly conveys my thoughts on The Thief of Always.
The ideas flow in a manner other writers should envy, especially many of today's YA authors.This is a book that refuses to treat it's audience as dull or stupid.
Barker wrote for the masses, but not to the masses.
To his credit, he lifts the reader rather than lower his prose.This is the only book I can say I've read, willingly, more than once.
Caveat: Much of Barker's work is not at all suitable for younger readers.
I decided to re-enter the surreal world of Clive Barker.
I seem to be doing things backwards.
I watched the Hellraiser film at 10 years old, read some of his more 'adult' books in my teens, & now at the age of 36, I've finally got around to reading a book I clearly should have read many years ago.Yet another great book by Clive Barker.
If we got rid of all the days that contained things we didn't want to do, work, boredom, sickness and rubbish weather, I wonder how many days each of us would actually have in a year?!
At its heart this is children’s book, a fable, but honestly it’s one of those stories that can be thoroughly enjoyed by adults too.The main character Harvey Swick; a ten year old boy who is extremely bored with life, gets more than he wished for when a mysterious man whisks him away to a Holiday House full of fun and adventure!
Even though he was a young child, Harvey wasn’t portrayed as naive or stupid in any way, his inquisitive nature soon revealed to him just how eerie and twisted the magical House was.This is where I really enjoyed, Barker’s writing.
This was the first book that I actually picked up and wanted to read by choice. Being in middle school and forced to read what was on their criteria never amused me at all! So I really owe a thank you to Mr. Clive Barker for opening up my mind and a whole new world for me!This was my first book I read, wanted to read and enjoyed reading it from start to finish!!!3 time Re-reading: March 1-5 2018= still remains a favorite of mine. Clive Barker remain my favorite author
This is a great book by clive barker. It's about this boy who goes to this house of seasons. It's a story worth checking out and one of the first Clive Barker books I checked out that got me started on his books. I hope one day that thief of always becomes a film because it is a pretty good story.
Χτες, λοιπόν, βρήκα τον Κλέφτη του Πάντοτε στο παζάρι βιβλίου, ήταν φτηνό, οπότε το πήρα και το διάβασα.
Και ήταν καλό.
Ναι, το θέμα του είναι κάπως πολυφορεμένο - το παιδί που βαριέται και θέλει περιπέτεια ή δεν τα πάει καλά με τους γονείς του και θέλει άλλους γονείς ή γενικά θέλει κάτι περισσότερο από αυτά που έχει και καταλήγει να παίρνει ακριβώς αυτό που ήθελε αλλά με κάποιον εφιαλτικό τρόπο.
Και, ναι, είναι λίγο ασαφές το σε ποιο κοινό απευθύνεται (μάλλον εφηβικό, θα έλεγα, γιατί είναι πολύ ενήλικο για παιδιά και πολύ παιδικό για ενήλικες).
Ο Clive Barker έχει μια εκπληκτική ικανότητα να μπαίνει στο μυαλό ενός μικρού παιδιού, να βλέπει τα όνειρα κ τους εφιάλτες του και να τους παρουσιάζει σε εμάς ατόφιους κάνοντας το με πολλή χάρη. Είναι ευκολοδιάβαστο και κρατάει συνεχώς το ενδιαφέρον.
I have no real idea what to rate this. Read more like a YA than an adult novel.
Pitch perfect in every way, Barker really shines on this one. I could see kids reading this at age 9 without issue. Would recommend to any fans of the interstice betwen horror and fantasy or anyone looking for a good yarn.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Ό,τι πρέπει για την περίοδο του Halloween. Ένα παραμύθι για τις επιθυμίες, τους φόβους, τα όνειρα, τη γενναιότητα που χρειάζεται για να αντιμετωπίσεις την πραγματικότητα.
This was a very quick read, and you know a book is good when you lose all sense of time.
The opening sentence, which is, perhaps, the most crucial part of any book, is definitely one of the best I've ever read, and I enjoyed how Barker kept referencing it throughout.
(view spoiler)[The moment Mrs. Griffin mentions the fish being poisonous, I knew they were the lost children (hide spoiler)]).
There were also some really weird "are you serious?" moments like (view spoiler)[when his parents just SUDDENLY believe Harvey and this random stranger's explanation that The Holiday House existed (hide spoiler)].
Pero no todo es perfecto, ya que pronto descubrirá que no puede salir de este lugar.‘El ladrón de días’ (The Thief of Always, 1992), del escritor británico Clive Baker, se aleja de las historias de terror y morbo que tanto le caracterizan.
En este caso nos encontramos con una novela infantil, con sus buenas dosis de fantasía e imaginación, aunque no falta el toque “Barker” en algunas escenas, como no podía se menos.
En resumen, la novela me ha gustado, pero hay que leerla con ojos de niño.
Inače prilično volim Barkera, onaj njegov dio koji piše više fantasy, a manje horror (koji inače baš i ne volim)Jako zgodno djelce gdje mi se Barker najviše približio Gaimanu.Jedna lijepa pričica o dječjim željama, o tome kako ništa nije dobro previše željeti :), malo neobičnih čudovišta i ugodno provedeno vrijeme.Posebna draž su Barkerove originalne grafike.Preporučujem.
Όταν ξεκίνησα το βιβλίο δεν περιμένα ότι θα μου άρεσε τόσο. Ο λόγος που με κέρδισε είναι γιατί με κάποιο τρόπο ένιωσα να είμαι ο ήρωας εγώ...ωστόσο μπορώ να πω ότι οι μάγισσες του Ρόαντ Νταλ με έχουν κερδίσει μολονότι ειναι καθαρά παιδικό βιβλίο.
Read this when I was a kid and waited for the movie it promised on the front cover. Never came to fruition I guess. Def needs to be reread because i don't remember much of it.
