https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529474.Rifles_for_Watie
Q. Why didn’t I read this in junior high?Q.
Why didn’t my teachers make it mandatory?Q.
Why did I ever read anything out of a text book about the civil war?Rifles for Watie taught me more about the civil war than any junior high American History book I ever endured.
If I were teaching Junior High history this would be MANDATORY.
It was exciting and not biased.
The author did a remarkable job of showing the good and bad sides of both the Union and Confederate Armies.
I would recommend this book about the civil war to everyone who loves a good story.
I recalled once reading Rifles for Watie by Harold Keith when I was a kid probably over my summer vacation.
The author Keith had a wonderful knack for turning descriptive phrases of the landscape, battle scenes, and soldiers' camp life.
Keith did tons of research as he laid out in his Author's Note before writing his novel.
The level of violence surprised me, and I felt as if I was reading an adult novel.
My second reading of Rifles for Watie as an adult really worked out for me, and how often does that happen?
Basically the plot is Jeff finding out what war is really about but still perseveres.
Throughout the book Jeff becomes part of the infantry, cavalry, he's a scout and I'd say more but that might gave something away.
What really makes the book though is Jeff.
Yes, he learns that war is not an adventure and it isn't all it's cracked up to be but he still keeps true to what he knows is right.
I know that a lot of people like the bad boy type but I think good guys are more appealing.
Okay, that was cool. :) Might review it further later.
Let's examine the scenes in Rifles for Watie that made me cringe, and see whether they are reflections of the author's own racism or of they are simply racist characters in a time when the country was very racially charged.
It's like "Of course dark-skinned ladies aren't usually beautiful, but this girl was REALLY beautiful." That nonchalance makes me think that it's really Harold Keith's prejudices that we're dealing with.
I was ready to give Harold Keith another racist stamp for it, but then we meet the White Confederate soldiers, and they all speak with that dumb, exaggerated dialect, too.
Exceptional Civil War story focused on the West and with authentic empathy for a variety of perspectives of the war. Highly recommended for young readers especially.The Audible.com audiobook is breathtakingly well done.
A boy won’t tell his father he’s leaving to join the army because he knows his father does not want him to.
Another boy won’t tell his mother he’s leaving to join the army because he knows she won’t let him.
A boy doesn’t want to go home during furlough because he’ll “just have another big brawl with Pa” for joining the army.
A boy gets into a fight with his mother when she won’t let him return home and makes him join back up with the army.
A sentimental 4 stars: Rifles for Watie was one of my favorite books when I was young; I don't know how many times I checked it out of the library.I was pleasantly reminded of it (and another sentimental favorite, The Horse Soldiers) while reading David Donald's Lincoln. I can still remember specific scenes from the book like Jeff's first battle, loading a rifle, the night he spends in a rebel's house, using worthless Confederate dollars to cut out a piece of bread.Both books have joined the list of stuff I'd like to reread when I can find the time.
There and in the introduction in the book itself he speaks of all the interviews he did with the aged veterans of the war.
So, yes, the details of how the boys dealt with being soldiers, etc., do ring true.However.In the introduction he admits that the novel is entirely fiction, and especially that he knows of no record of Stand Watie, the Cherokee slave owner and leader of rebel Indians, attempting to secure repeating rifles.
That's just too much invention for me.I want to know more about Watie, but not from this novel.I read to p.
92, the introduction to Watie, and gave up.
I'm finally done with this book!
I'm glad I put it down months ago and picked it up again a few days ago when I was ready to finally read another civil war era book.
My dad was born in the 50's and raised on the stereotype that Native Americans lived in teepees.
Anyhow, too bad he didn't read this book as a boy, might have changed his whole perspective.
Overall, I recommend the book with the warning that the black characters in the book are steeped in stereotype with awful accents and everything and the N word is used.
More importantly, the way the main character was written gave me a new perspective on what I already knew.
The book is action-packed, and Keith's characters feel like real people.Any Newbery winner before 1970 requires a diversity inspection.
Howard Keith spent considerable time interviewing Cherokees for this book, and it pays off with depictions of realistic people living on many different levels of Cherokee society.
I also wish that Keith's physical descriptions didn't focus quite so much on rolling, bugged-out eyes.As a side note, the "n" word gets used a few times in ways that I would describe as historically accurate and appropriate to the sophistication of the rest of the book.
are first rate, making this stand out from more generic juvenile historical fiction set during the Civil War. The author manages to deliver a good deal of history and through interesting juxtapositions of the protagonist is able to convey the viewpoints of both the Union and Confederate positions.
The title is not representative of the content of the entire book (the repeating rifle is not mentioned until p.210 and the Confederate plot to obtain them isn't introduced until p.266).
But it's as good a title as any.
Beautiful writing that nonetheless is accessible and down to earth enough for junior high readers carries an exciting story of the Civil War seen through the eyes of a 16 year old Kansas boy.
Keith focuses on the Civil War battles in the Western part of the country and the Cherokee Confederate Indian Cavalry general, Stand Watie.
While this book is just a plain good read, it is also important, covering obscure elements of the Civil War and really conveying for young readers how blurry war can be, as we feel Jeff's conflict as he gets to know the enemy but ultimately remembers why the Union must win.
4.5 Stars, but a little closer to 4.49 than 4.51. Jeff is the absolute perfect lead character. The type of small time hero I personally always want to be. Clardy is a genius villain. Book gets 100x better as soon as Lucy Washbourne is introduced. Very good book.
This was a really good story, very entertaining, and I will not lie, I enjoyed most of it. But it was very negatively biased against the confederates. Also, there was an over-dramatic, over-descriptive and unnecessary romance.
Good Civil War novel! I admit I didn't care for it at first but the story went on and it got better.
One of the best historical fiction books ever
It was a decent book but I felt it was more worded for beginner readers even though it was pretty long. I enjoyed the fact that it was easy to read and understand the plot of the book. This book is about Jeff Bussey's encounters in the union army during the civil war and how he learns that war isn't all fun and games. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the civil war or that time period
Rifles for Watie, however, delves into some of the psychology of, at least, the Native American side of the war (many of whom fought for the Confederates) and has an empathetic, wonderful protagonist in Jeff, who realizes that people are people, not nameless pigs to be slaughtered, and that things are confusing in war when it seems that the side you were fighting against might, actually, have a legitimate reason for fighting you.
Rifles for Watie can teach people today a thing or two about what it’s like to really put yourself in another person’s shoes and respect them even as you disagree with them.
Five stars for this Civil War historical fiction winner set in Kansas and Missouri, both states part of the western front of the war.
Noah, Heifer, Lucy, Jimmy, the despicable Captain Clardy, and Stand Watie himself are people from both sides of the war who help Jeff mature nobly as he strives to serve to the best of his ability wherever the tragedy of the Civil War takes him.
Jeff makes some decisions foolishly, but the most difficult ones with wisdom and goodness that we wish for those we love.
Jeff goes off to war and fights for the Union after his family is attacked by bushwackers.
Of course, Lucy is not interested in him because he a Union soldier.
He also knew that the Washbournes were missing a family member while he was on scout.
Jeff goes to the rebels to preyend to be a soldier and stays long overdue.
He thinks aboutbetraying the Union because the rebels are not monters, but ordinary people.
He finds out his own captain ( Captain Clardy ) betrayed the Union by selling repeating rifles to the rebles for gold.
I wasn't enthusiastic about beginning it, but do want to read all or most of the Newberrys.One reason that I enjoyed this book so much is that most of the action takes place at or near where I grew up.
And to think that the fantastic schools never mentioned this in 12 years of schooling.
When I think of the field trips, the real, hands-on "history happened here" events that we could have received, it just about makes me mad.
Ok, I'm over it.This book covers a lot of history and a lot of battles without ever seeming like it's teaching.
This is a terrific book to introduce older children to the Civil War, and it certainly deserves the Newbery Award.
I particularly liked how the characters thought and acted appropriately for their time period.
In fact, we are more than halfway through the book before any plot of any sort begins to emerge and the book stops looking like a novelized set of journal entries.
Still, it was a fascinating look at the life of a young soldier, and it was a book rich with detail and complicated and fleshed-out characters.
I can certainly recommend this one.
He goes through many different situations during the war, different from most civil war books I have read.This isn't a long description of all the different battles in the war.
It does mention several battles, but is based more on the characters and their stories.
I didn't like it at first because it was so Northern, but then the story changed and Jeff Bussey became sort of sympathetic to the South, which made me feel better.
:DOverall a good civil war novel for young people 12 and up, with interesting events, good history, and a little romance.
The young protagonist, Jeff Bussey, is a likeable character, and there's a good portrayal of his experiences as a young Union recruit from Kansas, as he goes from impatience to get a taste of war to eventual disillusionment with the destruction caused by both sides; knowing fear and hardship, forming friendships with good people on the other side of the conflict, and falling in love.
The angle of the Cherokee Nation's participation in the war was very interesting, and something I'd never heard much about before.
But there's plenty of interesting detail about army and camp life, and it's a good story overall.
My favorite book EVER!!!!!!
i am in love with historical fiction books, especially ones set in the nineteenth century and ancient times....
this was an amazing book bc i felt as if i was constantly with jeff bussey as he experienced both sides of the civil war.
i also loved how he fell in love with a rebel girl when he was fighting on the union's side and was spying on the confederates.
this is a must read for everyone, esp if u are civil war and/or history buff.
this is an caldecott award winning book and i would sooo reccommend u read it.
harold keith is an absolutely amazing author!
I’ve never read a book about a soldier in the middle of a war.
Jeff Bussey is just a boy, but he decides to enlist in the Union Army during the Civil War. He longs for fighting.
Finally, he is set up against the Southern Army and he finds it is not the glorious adventure he thought it would be.
Jeff is selected to infiltrate the Southern Army and to bring back information to the Union soldiers.
It was a very powerful book that I am happy to have finally read.
This was a slow start for me, but I ended up really enjoying it.
I actually ended up learning a lot about the Civil War that I wasn't familiar with -- especially the role of the Cherokee and other tribes.
It was pretty fascinating.
Keith did a nice job of sympathetically portraying both sides of the war -- the good and the bad of each.
As with many of these older books -- I find it difficult to maintain a sense of the passage of time as well as holding in my mind the various characters.
Other than that, I was pretty pleased.
If I was going to choose a book about the Civil War I would pick this over "Red Badge of Courage" any day (making the comparison because they are the only two Civil War novels I've read).
It was interesting, had historical elements, suspense, heroics, adventure, etc-even a love story!
It also dealt with some of the issues that make Red Badge of Courage so famous like sympathy for the other side and fear in the face of battle, how you deal with and so on.
Plus-the main character actually has a name instead of "the youth" which is awesome right there.
I read this book obsessively in middle school and I'd like to revisit it as an adult to see how it holds up. I constantly think about this story all the time and I'm glad I finally remembered the title
