https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68485.Swordspoint
I read very little of this book.
While it is well written (I say this in respect to those who like it greatly) it is not a book I care to get involved in.
Their dialogue didn't seem natural and frankly I just couldn't care about anyone in the book.
I just wasn't into the book and didn't care about the characters or the story.For me it was a waste of my limited reading time to forge through it.
Does that mean that Steinbeck isn't a "good writer"?
If you like it great, enjoy.
Is it really fantasy?Honestly, I don't think there's much fantasy at all, but if you like swords and high 18th century culture on a slight steroid high and full of homosexual men murdering each other for profit in high society, then by all means, come on over and read this book!
:)I was in the mood for lots of fast conversation and a bit of wit and this book has that in spades.
I got through the book in an enjoyable flash, but to be frank, I kinda stumbled a bit with the big court scene.
my goodness, but this was fun.by the time I started worrying that the twisty subterfuge would drain the story of momentum I looked up and realized I'd practically inhaled this badboy to the 70 percent mark.
and then some shit went down and my heart was pounding in my throat.meanwhile, this edition has a trio of follow-up stories at the end, so 70 percent turned out to be 90 percent.
bravo!a lush, layered, ingeniously taut melange of gripping skullduggery, sword fights, bisexual escapades, and even a perilous courtroom drama for shits and giggles.
my only complaint would be the fate of Michael, whose arc does not receive a satisfying conclusion.other than that, tho?booyakasha!
There were a couple of nicely written passages, but I never really got the impression that Kushner rose above the average throughout the book.
I am perfectly aware that they can come in useful when dealing with two characters who are the same sex; but constantly referring to Richard as 'the swordsman' does tend to wear after a while.However, my main issue with the book was the fact that it came across as Les Liaisons Dangereuses-by-numbers.
In fact, Kushner tries to include almost everything that makes Les Liaisons Dangereuses such a delicious pleasure to read.
Ellen Kushner's first novel sets the standard for what a polite fantasy of manners and romance should be.
I'm a little appalled that some critics of the book make much of the novel's take on homosexuality, to the point that they did not enjoy such a well-crafted tale.
I think these readers forget this is not a social treatise, but a work of fantasy fiction and as such, Ms. Kushner doesn't have to deeply examine the whys and wherefores of her imagined society's tolerance.
To be honest, I found Ms. Kushner's treatment of the fluid sexuality of her characters to be passionate yet tasteful.
Okay basic run down: this book's got two primary narrators: Richard St. Vier and Michael Godwin.
This affinity lasted for about as long as it took me to catch on to the fact that Richard St. Vier is a psychopath.Maybe you're shaking your head at me right now, like girl he kills people for a living, you're surprised that his moral compass isn't properly functioning?
Vier routine and then this friend of his is like (view spoiler)[yeah that Richard, anyone remember that old girlfriend of his?
I have no idea how this became considered a "new classic" nor even how it managed to become identified as "fantasy." It's more like an alternate-history novel, set in a world devoid of the supernatural and which is a sort of melange of Renaissance France, Italy and perhaps Enlightenment Vienna.
And i suspect its "classic" status has more to do with the fact that it was one of the first "fantasy" novels to deal with homosexuality (cartoonish and adolescent though its approach might be) in an open, encouraging and frank manner, than any sort of value the book itself might contain.
Nunca más le hago caso a una recomendación de George R.R. Martin.Esta es la historia de Richard de Vier, una suerte de mercenario que trabaja de batirse a duelo con espadas en nombre de la persona que lo contrata.
bastante.El libro irá alternando la historia de Richard con las historias de varios nobles, en una curiosa sucesión de eventos sin la menor importancia, diálogos intrascendentes y algo que me gustaría comenzar a llamar burocracia literaria...
Sin embargo, la relación entre ambos no me terminó de quedar clara durante buena parte del libro, ya que la misma autora muchas veces nombra a Alec como "el amigo" de Richard, y muy pocas veces como "el amante".
It’s funny, well executed and very witty (so much of the dialogue has double meanings or insults hidden behind kind words that I found myself laughing out loud on multiple occasions).The plot alternates between two central protagonists.
This is presented as the norm in this society and seemingly the way most petty matters of honor are resolved.Kushner has created a fascinating world here, and I can see why this book has such a loyal following.
(hide spoiler)]That complaint aside, this is an excellent fantasy novel and well worth a read.
Gorgeous and memorable book. There's not a lot that I can add that hasn't been said. I read it about the time I was discovering LGBTQ characters in spec fiction, and I remember wishing that everything could be like this.
The relationship between the swordsman St Vier and "his young gentleman, the University student" had a glittering, frenzied, self-destructive beauty I associate with Matt Damon's Mr. Ripley, while finding an eventual redemption the latter continually refused.
St Vier, simple, balanced and pragmatic, is bewildered and sometimes terrified by Alec's tendency towards violence and self-hatred, but loves him nonetheless, going to great lengths to preserve his safety, his life and his honor.
In the end, their love is shown to be the only real thing in the entire novel, as relationships and power structures are cynically undermined and manipulated at every turn.
4.5 Stars.
This book was a whole lot of fun!
Humor and swordplay and romance all rolled into one.
I'm usually not a big fan of the Fantasy of Manners subgenre but this one was very close to absolute perfection.I listened to the multi-cast audio with the "illuminated" bits, which were basically sound effects every now and then.
If people were running you would hear footsteps, there was sound for sword play, the babble of voices in a crowded area, doors creaking open, and a few other things.
It really just added a bit of fun to what was already a very fun book.
This one is a bit special for me, as it turns out I’ve been a fan of Ellen Kushner for far longer than I realized.
Thinking to myself “this name sounds awfully familiar” when Ellen tweeted me about Swordspoint, I looked her up only to find that I’ve been reading her Choose Your Own Adventure novels since I was about 8 years old – crikey!
Turns out that those very CYOA novels were written in order to pay the rent when she was writing Swordspoint, and here, almost 30 years later, I’ve found my way back to her work.
But, when, a couple of days later, being too ill still to leave the house allows you to stay home and listen to the audiobook instead of going to see a show, it certainly makes you a little more grateful for sickness.
I'm both grateful for a somewhat-standalone (since to my knowledge, the series is more of an anthology series than a true sequel-prequel deal) in a world of constant trilogies and series, but also upset that I won't be following these characters anymore - particularly St. Vier and Alec.While I was first hesitant of "ambient" audiobook, with sound effects and ambient sounds, once you're past the first, crowded chapter, it becomes much more easy on the ear.

I am an absurd fan of this book, although to be honest I'm not sure how I would feel about it if I first picked it up today as opposed to picking it up as one of my first m/m books ever.You see, this book was first published in 1987.
I don't even know how to properly express it.
There are books published today that don't pull this off.And the love that was expressed between the two main characters just touched me.
It was just masterful.So, this book has a special place in my heart forever.
What did it for me was that this book was not about the things one usually thinks of upon hearing the word "fantasy." There was no magic or mythical creatures or anything of that sort--just a story about a highly regarded swordsman trying to survive the cutthroat world of the elite who use his skills for their personal gains.
There did not seem to be any strong emotional tie that bound these two together other than maybe for the sake of convenience--Alec liked to cause trouble and Richard kept him alive when the inevitable fights broke out.Regardless, I took the book for what it was and thoroughly enjoyed it.
i started reading this because the description reminded me of Captive Prince and promised high fantasy lgbt diversity and at least in that point i have not been alltogether disappointedthe thing is, this book isnt BAD or anything, and i did enjoy reading it, and im deffinitley going to read the sequels too, but did it really impress me? nope sadly notbut you still gotta give this book some credit, it was published in 1987, and it has more diversity than most books written these days?THINGS I LIK
i started reading this because the description reminded me of Captive Prince and promised high fantasy lgbt diversity and at least in that point i have not been alltogether disappointedthe thing is, this book isn´t BAD or anything, and i did enjoy reading it, and i´m deffinitley going to read the sequels too, but did it really impress me?
like, you can´t really relate to any of them?
personally i didnt mind that much but they are pretty obnoxious-the political plot wasnt THAT groundbreaking tbh *shrugs*-the worldbuilding and side characters were kinda mediocre

If you like Jane Austen and P.G. Wodehouse, mannerpunk may be just your thing.In Swordspoint, the infamous swordsman Richard St. Vier is a tool of the upper class.
Meanwhile, playboy Michael Godwin is pursuing the widowed duchess, trying to evade the amorous intentions of an important councilman, and secretly pursuing his desire to be a swordsman like Richard St. Vier.Swordspoint is somewhat original considering that it's one of the first "mannerpunk" fantasies and features several bisexual characters (unusual for a book published in 1987).
Richard St. Vier could have been a great character, but his love for Alec was incomprehensible.
Something about the sting in the romance really didn’t work for me — I wanted Alec and Richard to be a lot easier to categorise, their love to have less sharp edges.
Swordspoint does have sharp edges, and the love story is not as saccharine as some might wish (including teenage Bibliophibians), but in reality it works really well.Perhaps it’s best not to think too much about how sustainable the political system described would be, with the use of swordsmen to outsource arguments.
I just enjoyed Swordspoint for the melodrama of manners that it is, and thrilled along with Alec to Richard’s skill and ferocity as a swordsman.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
The main character, Richard, is a swordsman, who earns his living by killing nobles by contract.
I love reading romance involving two men, but Alec and Richard didn't really convince me.
I have the other books set in this world, and it'll be interesting to see who shows up for a second round, and whether I feel less ambivalent about them.Edit: I can confirm that on a reread, I liked Swordspoint rather more, because I already knew and loved the characters.
Buddy read en E's Tea Party - 15 de Febrero 2015
The volume I have contains the novel as well as three short stories set in the same world as the novel; it also contains an extract from the follow-up novel The Fall of the Kings.At the beginning of the book there is a number of quotes, one of them by Neil Gaiman, saying: "Swordspoint was the best fantasy novel of 1989." Well, I have to say that if Swordspoint really was the best fantasy novel of that year, I don't want to read any of the others.
As I said, it's like mediocre fanfiction - it's not so bad you have to stop so you read on and on until you reach a certain point where you might as well finish it.Richard as a character could be quite fascinating, for example, but throughout the book he remains flat.
This first book tells the tale of Richard St. Vier, who is a swordsman in a society where the nobles hire swordsmen to fight their duels for them, sometimes to the death.
The fantasy element of Swordspoint lies not in magic or even in its lack (as in the later book), but in its location in a fairy tale unnamed city, beginning with an image out of fairy tale and carrying the aura through.
The book is fantasy purely in the sense of an undefined setting, swords and swordsmen and horses and nobles.
There is no magic, but it’s not that that makes this a fantasy either (unlike The Fall of Kings).
People keep talking this up as "a fantasy of manners", but for that to work, you have to have actual wit and snappy dialog and someone to root for.
I mean, it's one thing to give us gay-perspective main characters as a kind of affirmative-action, hey, isn't it great how tolerant we are kind of gesture.
But when some of the worst people in the novel are abusively homosexual and even the hero is, at best, graciously negligent, you have to wonder if you aren't rather harming your own cause.
Unless everyone is so busy showing how tolerant they are that they forgot to look for actual wit and character development.
Fiction.
This is another one of those books beloved of my friends list that I just found impossible to love.It's supposed to be a retelling of a fairy tale, though I never did figure out which one.
Or, to be honest, care.
The writing's overwrought and the characters shallow.In this world, the men all seem to be bisexual, but no one's having good sex.
At one point there was a paragraph that was either describing two people having sex, or the Rapture.
Too derivative to qualify as a fairy tale and not developed enough to survive as a novel.
If I could give this book ten stars, I would have.
It is a rare book that will make me care for the society that promotes values so different from my own.
I could not believe that I actually sympathized with the society that makes murders for hire part of their everyday life.
Um, they call them swordsmen, but to me, really potato - patato.And I so enjoyed the writing, very very beatifully done.I highly recommend this book to everybody who loves politics and intrigue.
I must warn you though - two male characters love each other, so if you do not like that, do not read this book.
This is an unusual fantasy novel, a "melodrama of manners".
It has a medieval setting on an invented world, with preening nobility who hire professional swordsmen to fight duels of honor on their behalf.
The focus of the book is an intriguing romance between a renowned swordsman and a caustic, suicidal young man who appears to be a nobleman gone slumming.The writing was quite good, and I enjoyed the romance - every scene with Alec and St. Vier was mesmerizing.
The political maneuvering of the secondary characters didn't interest me very much, though.
I'll look for more of Kushner's work.
Price drop to $1.99 at Amazon US 4/1/18
