https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590552.Chicken_Soup_with_Rice
I love rhyming books. They make me happy. There is something magic that happens when the words simply fit together. This simple book made me smile. Each month talks about how to eat your Chicken soup with rice. There is a beautiful illustration with it. This book is about JOY, that's what it is to do is bring joy to the world and I have to say, it gave me a little. Thank you Maurice!I've got to go, my Chicken soup with Rice is ready!
Reading oncereading twicereading chicken soupwith rice.
I have first heard about “Chicken Soup with Rice” on a Weston Woods video where Carole King sings the song “Chicken Soup with Rice” on “Really Rosie.” “Chicken Soup with Rice” is a book about the months of the year by Maurice Sendak that details the months of the year in a poetic way and will surely be an instant favorite for many children who love learning about the months of the year!
Maurice Sendak did an excellent job at writing this book in a lyrical and poetic way, which makes the book extremely hilarious and creative at the same time by putting hilarious situations with each month described in the book.
As much as I love (adore, think the world of) Where the Wild Things Are, this is my favorite Maurice Sendak book. I loved it when I was little. I love it now. I love reading it to my son when he is home sick in bed (and requesting nothing but chicken soup with rice). I love it :)
The edition I read, twice, was a tiny book. It is a wonder how an entire year can fit inside the palm of one's hand and a soup based upon two key ingredients.As a system of verse, Sendak's treatise presents an important tool for the developing mind/body to learn how to change with the seasons yet remain true to the essentia of homespun nourishment via tried-and-true ingredients. For some that may seem a little wild, but, I think I must go check on my chicken and rice, now.
5* art4* rhymeThe repetition in the poems is so satisfying, so inevitable and enjoyable - Sendak is a master.
Chicken soup with rice: A book of months was written and illustrated by Maurice Sendak.
The book has a new rhyme for every month ending in "Chicken soup with rice".
My favorite month inside the book was July, it read: "In July I'll take a peep into the cool and fishy deep where chicken soup is selling cheap.
At the end of every line inside this poem the author also has a consistent rhythm and repeating sentence at the end of each page, helping younger students have a easier time writing poetry.
A classic book of months. I love it... the illustrations, the rhymes, the repetition... it's all so fun! It was short enough to keep Caleb's attention now (7.5 months), but will also be great for him when he's older and learning about the months and seasons of the year.
Fun rhyming tale that extols the wonders of chicken soup with rice throughout every month of the year. interesting quote:"I told you once I told you twice all seasons of the year are nice for eating chicken soup with rice!" (p. 30)
"Garren, my kid wants to learn months so what..."*pushes Chicken Soup with Rice across the counter*This is my life plan.
Chicken soup is a food almost everyone has eaten at one time or another, so the theme of the books feels very familiar and universal, but each monthly chicken soup experience could only come from the mind of someone like Sendak.Though I love the entire book - for nostalgia's sake as much as anything else - I do have two favorite pages.
The first is March, when the wind spills the soup, then "laps it up and roars for more." I can remember being obsessed with that page in the classroom big book of this story, and enjoying the way the wind looked like it was alive.
Main Character/s: A Young BoySetting: Each month has a new settingPOV: N/A Summary: This book is great for introducing the months of the year to young students.
The words used in each rhyme create great visuals for young readers.
The visuals and aided illustrations for each rhyme helps the readers follow along.
Visually seeing the name of the month and having a rhyme to remember that month will aid all young students to learn about the months of the year.
Classroom uses/theme: I would use this book in my preschool classroom because it is a great way to introduce the alphabet to toddlers.
It's hard to review this book with any amount of objectivity, since every time I so much as look at the cover, I hear my own five-year-old voice chanting "Whoopee once, whoopee twice, WHOOPEE CHICKEN SOUP WITH RICE!".
It taught me my months, it taught me the basic pattern of the weather and the holidays, and it left me with an unresolved obsession to find out what sort of magic chicken soup that kid is eating.
(This soup can be poured on toast, floated down, and used as a sort of poor man's Miracle Gro to perk up roses.
It not only has a really fluid rhyme in it, but it also helps to teach about the months.
This book is about a little boy who shares his experiences with Chicken Soup and Rice in every month of the year.
The rhymes are easy to follow, and would help to keep young children's attention.
I really liked the one where the wind is eating chicken soup off of the floor in the month of March.
I would use this book with a younger audience of probably first or second grade.
I never read this book as a child, but a children's librarian recommended it to me when I was teaching my son about the months of the year.
I took to it immediately and loved reading it aloud to my 5 year old.
While reading it he told me he already knew the February rhyme, and I was confused about this since it was the first time I read it to him.
At a school open house months later, he showed me a huge flip poster with the Chicken Soup with Rice monthly rhymes written on it.
It's how they were learning the months.
From this book a very sweet memory was made.
Chicken Soup with Rice is a book of poems about a guy who likes to eat chicken soup with rice.
There are poems for each month of the year and in each poem, there are repetitions of the words “once and twice” and “chicken soup with rice”.
It’s a very funny poem book because it’s so random.
It can also help to teach children the months of the year and provides the opportunity to do several different activities with it.
I also really love all of the illustrations in the book, it helps to make it.
I definitely recommend this book of poetry to anyone who likes poetry.
Sendak, Maurice.
Chicken Soup with Rice; A Book of Months.
*Predictable-This is a collection of poems about each month and eating chicken soup with rice during those months.Themes-Months of the yearActivities to do with children-Use this to reinforce the months of the year.
Have students predict what month comes next and some of the things that may be included in the poem about that month-Have pairs of students create a page for a month of the calendar.
Have them illustrate the calendar to correctly represent the month.
Also have them include any special holidays or events that fall into their month.
I gave Sendak's tiny Nutshell Library to my daughter when she was about three. We read those delightful concept books countless times. Then we discovered the Weston Woods video Really Rosie which integrated an original storyline about a young diva with Sendak's books and music by the incomparable Carole King. Jackpot! Ever since, "Chicken Soup with Rice," "Pierre," and "One Was Johnny" sing in my mind. What better way to learn the seasons and months than by reading, singing, and eating Chicken Soup with Rice?"
I love simple and fun, and what could be more simple than Maurice Sendak's calendar of chicken soup love, or more fun than Chicken Soup With Rice's celebration of imagination?Naked boys In the Night Kitchen with Oliver Hardy, I suppose ;)
Carole King's "Really Rosie" album was my jam in the early eighties.
My Cool Aunt Edie gave me the record (yes, the record!) and I wore that sucker out.
Only later did I discover the Nutshell Library and Maurice Sendak's genius little books that inspired "Really Rosie.".
And what should come across my desk today but "Chicken Soup with Rice" taking me back to the days of Cabbage Patch Kids and Strawberry Shortcake (the real one, not the tween) and rocking out to "Alligators All Around" and "Pierre" in mismatched socks and leg warmers.
What an awesome way to start a Saturday at the library!
This book was really cute. It goes through the twelve months of the year while describing what happens to the chicken soup with rice. The pictures are also very cute and go somewhat along with the words. I would recommend this book for anyone trying to teach the months of the year. The words are all very descriptive and help visualize what is happening to the soup. The soup is affected by the weather in each month. I like how it's a simple book but it can teach students new words.
This book is great for introducing the months of the year to young students. Each month has its own special rhyme that always ends with chicken soup with rice. - each rhyme creates great visuals for young readers - title of each rhyme is the name of the month. Visually seeing the name of the month and having a rhyme to remember that month will aid all young students to learn about the months of the year.
Maurice Sendak LOVES chicken soup with rice. He eats it every month. I'm not kidding. Every page he pronounces his affection for chicken soup with rice. This is a FANTASTIC read-aloud. The only problem is that my hands are bigger than this tiny book. I don't know if I just got a really small copy, but it is just too small. I can't read this to more than one person at a time. I love this book.
This is one of my all-time favorite books. I've loved it since I was very young. The silly poems and illustrations were perfect for my slightly twisted personality. I also like to sing along to the poems. It was a frequent check-out from DuVall's school library. This is a fun read aloud for one on one sharing. The small format makes it difficult to share with a larger group. If you can find a "big book" format, it would be great storytime book.
I'm already a fan of Sendak's work but this is amongst my favorite! He once again captures the reader's imagination in with two things that I love;food and humorous rhymes.The book takes you through the months and season of the year with a young man's simple request ,chicken soup with rice! The book is also wonderful to sing, check out Carole King's singing the words from the book and join in! Fun,fun fun!
I really enjoyed reading this story. I would use it in my classroom to introduce months of the year. My students could make their own calendar and keep it for themselves or give to someone as a gift. I would even use the calendar to talk about what type of pictures we would draw for each month and how our seasons during the year. I could use this book to discuss the amount of days we have in each month as well.
I can't say how many times I went back to this book over the years. I know I looked at it a lot even when I was a teen, and then when I was in grad school I read it countless times with Bela and the kids out at Dimondale. Sendak and Gorey are close cousins in terms of psychologically compelling illustrations, ones that stand on their own and tell a thoroughly different story than the words alone could do--not only a complementary match, but also with some stark counterpoint to the words.
Maurice Sendak's book of monthly poems would make the perfect addition to a daily calendar routine. The poems not only reinforce phonological awareness, but can also build fluency through repeated readings. By revealing only one poem each month, students remain engaged as they anticipate and look forward to reading next month's poem. Students could also make predictions about what next month's poem will be about.
This is a fun little book, mixing the months and seasons with chicken soup with rice. While I was a teacher, I remember getting this book and cassette tape from one of the student book clubs, and the tape had the story in song form, sung by Carole King. Rereading this book today, I could still hear Carole King singing the words. :) Fun illustrations too!
Maurice Sendak shows that it is always a good time for chicken soup with rice. Whether slip sliding on ice or taking a peep in the cool fishy deep, once, twice chicken soup with rice. As Sendak reviews the months of the years, he finds great ways to describe each month through rhyme. Sendak's illustrations go perfectly with his story. This little boys loves his chicken soup with rice.
