https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9924.The_Grass_Harp_Including_A_Tree_of_Night_and_Other_Stories
The Grass Harp: Truman Capote on the Sunny Side of the Street"Gonna take a Sentimental Journey,Gonna set my heart at ease. Gonna make a Sentimental Journey,to renew old memories...Never thought my heart could be so yearny. Why did I decide to roam? Gotta take that Sentimental Journey, Sentimental Journey home. Sentimental Journey." Random House, New York, New YorkScene One--The office of Bob Linscott,Editor for Truman Capote, Carson McCullers, among others Random House, New York, NYLinscott: Tru
Random House, New York, New YorkScene One--The office of Bob Linscott,Editor for Truman Capote, Carson McCullers, among others Random House, New York, NYLinscott: Truman, you're a wonderful writer...Capote: Oh, that's so true.
(Truman takes a languorous puff from his cigarette and stares dreamily at the ceiling, then looks at Bob, giving him a sultry look.)Linscott: Don't pull that pouty baby face look on me.
It won't work.Capote: Why, Bob, I don't know what you mean!
Have you absolutely no shame, Truman?Capote: What's that, Bob?
(giggling)Linscott: Truman, you SKIPPED off the damned stage like a school boy!
Why, I DID!Linscott: And don't tell me you're still working on Summer Crossing.Capote: But, Bob, I am.
Here's a beautiful excerpt from The Grass Harp: Wind surprised, pealed the leaves, parted night clouds; showers of starlight were let loose: our candle, as though intimidated by the incandescence of the the opening, star-stabbed sky, toppled, and we could see, unwrapped above us, a late wayaway wintery moon: it was like a slice of snow, near and far creatures called to it, hunched moon-eyed frogs, a claw-voiced wildcat.
Verena, unfortunately, never has a treehouse epiphany although Dolly forces her into the tree presumably with the hope of redeeming her sister (or herself, maybe both).
Dolly, on the other hand, has kept the chain of love intact and although she leaves the treehouse to return to her sister, one gets the impression she is triumphant and not a coward.
Not that he didn't do a lot himself, and ultimately wrote the book, but based on what I read, he couldn't have done it without Harper Lee.So granted, Truman Capote was a self-centered little (he stood at 5 foot 3) donkey's behind.
He was still a wonderful writer and I thoroughly enjoyed this book.First of all, I have lived several years in the South and I appreciate the local color that Capote so deftly writes into his stories.
Capote creates some of the most beautiful sentences I've ever read. His characters are created with so much care, and I love them all, whether they're good or bad. This novella is perhaps the best example of Capote's skill. Anyone who loves to read gorgeous descriptions of eccentric characters and create a relationship with the story they're reading should pick up this book. It is the epitome of heart-warming.
The first time I read a Truman Capote story I could have sworn I had read it before. Not trite or derivative, more like he drew these stories in fine silvery threads from my heart.
The title story “A Grass Harp” is “poetry in form of prose” as one group member put it.
Still the people involved come out of it changed.The story reminded me in many ways of “To Kill a Mockingbird” by Harper Lee. It plays in a remote, rural town, central characters are a child and a judge, and they display the same fierce attitude towards injustice and racism.Among the other stories of the book I liked most “Children on their Birthdays” and “A Jug of Silver”, both again displaying Capote’s mastery picture strong, exceptional children, their struggles and view of the world.
Capote's Southerness shines in this lovely little book.
I adore Truman Capote's work.
So it was interesting to read a book that was still so blatantly Capote but emotionally so far removed from the other.
The Grass Harp has the same sad wistfulness as all of Capote's books but introduces the warm, lazy, drama of a Southern picturesque.I loved this book.
But both have distinct stories to share, and I wouldn't dare discount one by comparing it to the other.
It does make it easy to wonder about long summers shared by Truman and Nell though.
A lovely ghost story starring Truman Capote and Harper Lee, by Kim Powers.
The Grass Harp is a wonderful story.The other stories in the book have a variety of themes, some of which I enjoyed more than others, but I am impressed with the quality of Capote's writing in all of them.
Poppycock : Capote, searching for his voice, bakes a pretentious poppyseed cake with an excess of passion-fruit curds.
I travel Capote's world mostly for the words.
This is why I read Capote: "...a field of high Indian grass that changes color with the seasons: go to see it in the fall, late September, when it has gone red as sunset, when scarlet shadows like firelight breeze over it and the autumn winds strum on its dry leaves sighing human music, a harp of voices." "She was one of those people who can disguise themselves as an object in the room, a shadow in the corner, whose presence is a delicate happening.
But, for context you have to read the collection.
I've always thought that Truman Capote is the bastard child of Eudora Welty and Tennessee Williams.
This book is definitely on the Eudora Welty side of the equation, although it also reminds me in moments of We Have Always Lived at the Castle.This is a tale of misfits, of the freedom of refusing to fit in, and of what it takes to make yourself and your family.
You know, I realized I just can't get enough of Truman Capote.
Wish he had written forever!
A master of writing he makes you feel his characters so intensely.
I loved "Master Misery" with such great lines as: "Dreams are the mind of the soul", "She is the recent victim of a major theft; poor baby, she has had her soul stolen" and "if one disappears from the world, then the world should stop" (something I have selfishly said many times!) Luckily for us still on this fragile planet, Capote may have gone, but his words will never dissappear, thank God!
The characters in the novel and short stories are amazingly well defined and the narrative rings with a brutal honesty that only the greatest of writers have ever achieved.
The characters of Dolly, the Judge, Verena, and Catherine in "The Grass Harp"are vivid illustrations and portrayals of rural Alabama that touch the reader in such a way as to make them unforgettable.
Mr. Capote was so in touch with his Alabama roots and childhood that it is easy to forget, while reading this wonderful novel and short stories, that his frame and celebrity was ever associated with New York.Mr. Capote has always been one of my favorite writers.
Bueno, yo tengo la versión en castellano, pero no importa.
O si, porque nunca sabes si la traducción es fiel o no al original.
Me gustó y me sorprendió esta novela porque no tiene nada que ver con "A sangre fría" y, en cambio, si tiene muchas reminiscencias del tipo Tom Sawyer.
La poca extensión del libro hace que su lectura sea rápida, y la forma en que está escrita, ágil.
Cuando escribió esta novela tenia 21 años, pero fue un escritor bastante precoz.
Perhaps the favorite southern fiction book I've read so far. So beautifully descriptive. Everything - the pacing, the characters, the style. It's just such a vivid book. One of those in which you experience sensory images long after turning the last page. Capote understood the child trying to adjust to living with and understanding two single bewildering aunts he's been thrust upon. And he wrote that child's viewpoint of those aunts and their house so well. Recommended as a summer read - with the windows open & the insects singing.
This story is one of my favorites by Capote. It's based on his upbringing in Alabama with two elderly cousins in Monroeville. Capote wrote some of the best sentences in the 20th Century. I love this from the story: “If some wizard would like to give me a present, let him give me a bottle filled with the voices of that kitchen, the ha ha ha and the fire whispering, a bottle brimming with its buttery sugary smells . . .”
Capote can write. He knows how to create atmosphere and characters. This short book is so well written, I like it a lot.
Absolutely unreal! You have to read these books!
One of the most beautiful stories I have ever read--a true idea of family values and loyalty, though a completely unconventional family.
No easy process, understand; it could take a lifetime, it has mine, and still I’ve never mastered it - I only know how true it is: that love is a chain of love, as nature is a chain of life.” (p.44)It reminded me at times of “The Emigrants” by the German author W.G. Sebald and “To Kill a Mockingbird” by Harper Lee. The title of the story: “The Grass Harp” refers to the wind that carries “…a story- it knows the stories of all the people on the hill, of all the people who ever lived, and when we are dead it will tell ours, too.” (p.9) ; representing a testament of their existence.
Love this. Reminded me of Harper Lee
I really enjoyed it.It's set in a little town in southern small town America and focuses on one household of eccentrics: two ageing sisters, a black woman convinced she is a native American, and their orphaned nephew, 16 years old.
One of the sisters is serious and a successful business woman; the other, Dolly, only likes to eat sweet things, is a bit dotty and makes potions in an old bathtub which she sells by mail order as a dropsy cure.
After a fight over this business, the sisters fall out, and Dolly, the nephew Colin, and the black woman, Catherine, leave home and move into a treehouse in the woods.
Review to come later when I'm feeling more inspired.
The Grass Harp is a beautiful, poetic, heartwarming and at moments heart-wrenching story with touches of unforgettable humor. This meaningful tale is one of my Truman Capote favorites. You’re sure to laugh ... as well as wipe away a tender tear.
The Grass Harp, after this first reading, is certainly my favorite story of Truman Capote's.
It was full of that charm and magic and hearkened back to the poignant pleasantness of A Christmas Memory.Truman's early life is on full display, as it was in A Christmas Memory and Other Voices, Other Rooms; that of a young boy abandoned by his parents in the South to live with mysterious family members.The Grass Harp is a short book, a brief read like Summer Crossing.
This is the book that first brought him fame, and introduced me to southern fiction.
While he didn't "invent a genre" here, as he did with In Cold Blood, his voice was diaphanous and faintly perfumed, like Tennessee Williams in the pre-cocktail morning.
I don't like thinking about Capote in his later years, when he became a character in his own life, having all of the frailties but none of the vulnerabilities of the people he wrote about.
But this book, and to a certain extent, Music for Chameleons as well, show him at his best: sensitive, imaginative and in control of his story, at least for a little while.
Whatever you do, don't see the revolting movie version of this exquisite novella. This is poetry, prose, and perfection between two narrow covers. It is a simple story in the tradition of Carson McCullers, but without the prop of physical deformity or mental aberration. A young orphaned boy goes to live with two eccentric aunts: one childlike and sincere, one embittered and controlling. The elegant plot is driven by a crisis when the ambitious sister attempts to profit from the other, triggering her departure from the house and temporary encampment in the branches of an archetypal and all-embracing oak.
Read this because I enjoyed the movie. Hadn't realized it was a short story - and didn't read the rest of the stories in the collection, I'm afraid. Loved the quirky characters. My advice: read the story *before* watching the movie. This reminded me of Cold Sassy Tree and novels of that tradition of snug-bordering-on-corny-Americana, wonderful if done well, icky-sweet if mishandled.
Okay... Americans CAN write good "classic" fiction. Very home-spun story, but deceptively compelling story that pokes around the soft-spots of child abandonment, homosexuality, class-ism, racism, and small-mindedness versus small-town charm.
Between the deceptively simple language and the rich characters, I loved this book. It made me think a lot about what it means to be a big city writer who left her heart in a small town.
