https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11735983-insurgent
Let me just stop myself right here before I end up writing a really negative review and 1 starring one of the most anticipated books of 2012.
In the end, Insurgent's saving grace is that it simply doesn't belong with some of my other one starred books.
Spock's call.The first big negative right off the bat was that Insurgent picks up directly after Divergent left off.
The secret is kept long enough from the reader just so it can push you off the cliff on the last page.World Building:In Divergent I let a lot slide and roll off me because I was entertained throughout the entire book.
Clap, clap, stomp.We are, we are DAUNTLESSWe are, we are DAUNTLESSBeatrice, Now called Tris, Made a big changePlaying on the trains, She became a Dauntless one dayShe's got mud on her faceA parental disgraceNow she'll be kickin your ass all over the placeSingin'We are, we are DIVERGENTWe are, we are DIVERGENTTobias is a Dauntless, DivergentShoutin' to them all, We can take on the world todayErudite got blood on their faceWe'll put them in their placeInto the past, out of our Fear LandscapesSingin'We are, we are INSURGENTWe are, we are INSURGENTCome on!We are, we are INSURGENTWe are, we are INSURGENT
The size of my disappointment probably has something to do with why I can't bring myself to award this two stars. I know Divergent isn't really a great book, the dystopia makes no sense, the Dauntless are ridiculous people who jump off trains to prove themselves... but, for me, it was still a wildly entertaining read. It was fast-paced, full of action, Tris was delightfully kickass, and the romance between her and Four complemented the main story without overtaking it. Insurgent failed on all o
Even though no time passes between the end of the first book and the start of this one, Tris and Tobias/Four feel like completely different characters and this is an inconsistency I can't forgive.
I really liked his character in Divergent, I found him to be sweet, kind and a little mysterious (indeed, in this book he was the only mystery).
I couldn't even begin to believe in a story where the characters had changed so dramatically without logical reason.Plus, there's also the whopping great fact that nothing actually happens.
I didn't even care enough to read this book properly and find out what happens at the end.
Well, I definitely like the title "Divergent" better than "Insurgent." Sounds a bit like Insurance.Wow, eight likes.
o.o O.O O.O228 DAYS (I think) 219 DAYS,5278 HOURS,316728 MINUTES, AND ABOUT19003700 SECONDS UNTILINSURGENT, THE BOOK WITH THE WACKY TITLE.217 days5223 hours313427 minutes18805657 secondsI don't know how I'm going to SURVIVE when/if Tris meets up with Christina and Christina FINDS OUT TRIS KILLED WILL.
I think I'm going to reread Divergent.
I don't like this cover as much as Divergent's, but it's still cool.
(hide spoiler)] It'd be sort of like Abnegation, but a lot less Stiffer.
Brace yourselves.I did think I liked Divergent a bit better.
I think Roth aptly puts this to justice when she writes: "And while he has done cruel, evil things, our society is not divided into “good” and “bad.” Cruelty does not make a person dishonest, the same way bravery does not make a person kind." The multilayers to every action and every character makes you stop and think of the macro events, which is what I believe books should truly be about.REALISTIC OUTCOMES AND PLOT DEVICES THAT MAKE YOU WIDE EYED FOR MORE:Stemming from what I said earlier about events that occur in this book, I just want to say that Roth really does know how to set her pacing for the trilogy well.
Uh-oh. Why did I break my promise to myself and read this book?Was it my curiosity? Well, I need to be more careful. After all, curiosity killed the cat - and I'm a Leo. Uh-oh. Now I'm afraid that this book may have made me use up a few of my allotted nine lives. O_O Welcome back to the senseless world of dystopian Chicago where you are only allowed to have one personality trait, which apparently is determined in what seems to be an equivalent of a 5-question multiple choice test. And this ridic
Now we're moving on to Insurgent where ridiculous overpowers the fun amidst nothing happening.We start with our lovely heroine Tris, recently tortured and shot in the shoulder after which she lost quite a bit of blood - right away easily jumping off trains and running around like the invincible little special snowflake she is.
Right: what it probably looked like the entire time.Seriously, all the training happened in the previous book.
If things like that are what makes the Erudite seem smart, this world is screwed.By the way: What did smart people ever do to Veronica Roth?
I was surprised to realized that throughout the book there were so many things that actually happened, so many discoveries and things learned.
I saw a lot of different sides of him in this book.
I saw a frustrated Four, a vulnerable Four, a regretful Four but also a very loving and caring Four and boy did I fall in love all over again!What I also loved so much in this book was how Tris and Tobias's relationship was handled.
I love that it showed how it was to have a relationship in a situation were too many obstacles, conflicts, emotional baggages were thrown.
People, I have discovered, are layers and layers of secrets.   Umm, no honey. You're thinking of something else...  Of the three books, this book is the long-neglected and likely disturbed middle child. Not as fun as the first nor as smart as the third. Doesn't contribute or stand out. Essentially, it's just there, staring at us and wanting us to notice it.  The "plot": Tris & Co. are betrayed, run to a new faction, cue long description of new faction/faction life, Tris & Co. are betray
Of the three books, this book is the long-neglected and likely disturbed middle child.
It's like Veronica spent too much time designing these factions and didn't want the effort to go to waste...hence we get the grand tour.
Well, I shouldn't say that's all we get...we also get gems like this:
“Killing you is not the worst thing they can do to you," I say.
You could completely skip this novel and not miss a thing for the third.
They do use the classic 'government knew of everything and manipulated every possible thing to get this exact outcome.' Lovely.My favorite part?
2.5 stars If you have been following my status updates for Insurgent, this gif will look very familiar to you. That is because I have used it twice in a row. I wanted to use it again, but that might have been overdoing it. Sadly, I didn't enjoy Insurgent as much as I thought I would. The first 100 pages were a total snore-fest and I was literally vibrating my lips just like that, because that was more interesting than what I was reading. I already have concentration issues, and Insurgent didn’t
I really wanted to like this book.
I actually liked the fact that there were no pages wasted recalling everything that had happened in the previous book.
Lord knows this book was long enough as it was.Tris was not the badass girl we knew from last time.
I won’t have any trouble waiting for the third instalment, though I will read it, because I want to know how it ends.
I just hope Insurgent suffered from the ‘Second Novel Curse’ and Detergent (or however the third book will be called) will be a lot better again.And Tobias, I’m warning you.
To my defense Divergent was blindly fast pace and with a year gap between the two books it’s a bit disorienting for Insurgent to immediately jumping right in.
It’s frustrating, like Tris-annoying-character-in-here.Insurgent has lots of loopholes and unpolished side that to my opinion is not that noticeable if you didn’t give it too damn time to criticize.
'That' my friends, is a major plus for me._______________________________________________Post from Veronica Roth's blog about her 2nd book:INSURGENT!This post really wouldn't be complete without a dictionary definition, so here it is:
The flow of the book is amazing it is very easy to get lost in Tris' world.
Tris has to deal with the trauma of being forced to kill one of her best friends.
There are many revelations in the book (that keep coming till the last page), why the Erudite decided now was the time to attack, and what is their next move.
Also Tris and Tobias may need to make deals with different devils to do what they believe is right possible at the expense of their own relationship.
I really think I had watched the movie so many times that it felt like I was kinda watching it again only not watching it and it was weird.
This book had a lot more going on and someone I really liked died.
Well, a lot few people died in both books I liked but that's the way it goes.
I'm going to have a hard time with the next books because I saw someone's spoiler about what happens to someone so that was a bummer.
Tris is going around like some kind of robot.
''You're too important to just... die.'' This book was extraordinary. Not like the first one at all, but a good different. A different that will bring many emotions out of you and will definitely hook you from the first to the very last page. I pout my lower lip for a second, but then I grin as the pieces come together. ''That's why you like me!'' I exclaim. ''Because you're not very nice either! It makes so much more sense now.'' Tris and Tobias have this incredible chemistry that is impossibl
I could have quoted this entire book, to be honest, since every written word was, to me, important and I read them with a vehemence desire to know what would happen next.There are actually many characters in this book that have a unique role attributed and ones you can’t imagine dying.
I don’t know how this will sound to you, but I actually like seeing characters die in these kinds of plots.
It is actually worth putting whatever you’re currently reading aside and start this moving, well-developed, written and unique story.
but it didn't affect my enjoyment of the book one bit, because her writing was so remarkable, and the pacing was so blindingly fast, i barely had time to register the silliness.
and by the end, when i stopped to think, "wow, there are some ridiculous foundations to that story," it didn't matter at all, because i had had such a wonderful time reading that book.this book is a much slower and more deliberate story, with more psychological character development that slows down the pacing just enough to really highlight its weaknesses.the strengths:tris is a fantastic character.
I was glad that I decided to continue the book series!  A FORETOLD DOOMED DYSTOPIA  They’ve made mistakes, of course, but they like everyone else, are a blend of good and bad. I commented in my review of the first book, Divergent, that the presented dystopia in the story was doomed to fail by itself, and it wasn’t any shock that happen, even due many of the observations that I did. So, I don’t know you, but I think that all was part of the plan......well, not their plan, of course......but the
As I commented in my previous review......Amity and Candor are still a bunch of wimps and cowards (but as in anything, there are some exceptions)......Erudite still should be smarter to realice how faulty was this society system (but surprising enough, while the supposed “villains”, they were like the only faction trying hard to keep on the current system (by questionable methods but still)......Abnegation still is a bunch of hypocrites, and definitely is one of the factions that will suffer the worst part in this war......and Dauntless is still a bunch of moving trains jumping psychos (and now the favorite pawns of everybody)...While I say that Veronica Roth must do everything according to some secret plan of her own, still there are some odd elements in the narrative......how the heck a car took an hour to reach the Amity Headquarters from the center of the city?
Ugggh. I wish that Tobias would just go by Four. Or Toby! That would also be good :D . . . THE COVER.I'm so freakin excited for this book!******EDIT AFTER READING*******I guess my excitement died down a little lol :P But it was really good still, even though I read it like two years after the first one :P
هر سال در یک روز مشخص، همه ی نوجوانان شانزده ساله، بایستی در آزمون استعداد سنجی شرکت کنند؛ تا بدون توجه به فرقه‌ ای که در آن به دنیا آمده‌ اند، تصمیم بگیرند که باقی عمر خویش را، در کدامیک از پنج فرقه سپری کنند.
«بئاتریس پرایر» شانزده ساله، عضو خانواده‌ ای از فرقه ی فداکاری ست، اما خصلت از خودگذشتکی، هرگز در ذات او وجود نداشته است.
بئاتریس در آزمون استعداد سنجی شرکت می‌کند، ولی نتایج آزمونش شگفت‌ انگیز است.
The latter is the more dominant of the two, and hence the low rating.Firstly, the brave, sweet Tris I fell in love with in Divergent is replaced by an angsty heroine in Insurgent who is a complete STRANGER to me.
After witnessing the chemistry and natural connection between the two in Divergent and how Roth promised there wouldn't be a love triangle, I was sure Tris and Four would become one of my most favorite couples in YA, once they actually got together.
I wish I would have been able to just sit down one afternoon and read this book in one sitting, but I was so busy, but whenever I started reading, I wouldn't want to stop, but unfortunately something always got in the way.My opinions on different things through the book kept changing, and now that it's done, I can't quite figure out what I feel about most things.One thing I know for sure though, I still prefer the name 'Four' rather than 'Tobias' even though I had the whole book to try to get used to it.
You see, in Divergent I loved all the part of the story when Tris was trying to win a spot in Dauntless, it was awesome to read.
But when all the rebelion/revolution/whatever thing started, the book went down to me, and Insurgent is ALL about that!
And Tris, God, she became insufferable!
I mean, I tried to understand her, I think I would be worse if I had suffered the things she has, but sometimes she was boring to read.
I liked Tris better in the first book.Also, the ending left me all confused, but I think that was the point.
The real action doesn't really happen until much later, and I thought the end was kind of mind-blowing because it was NOT what I was expecting at all.Setting my frustrations with Tris aside, I did like how the book showed the different sides of her - proving she is a true Divergent, but I still don't understand a few things like what the Divergents' role in how are they supposed to help/hurt the "mission?" I guess this is going to be left for Book 3.Overall, it was a good book, but not nearly as good as the first book because I felt a lot was going on, and I was am left with so many questions at the end.
I know it's trying to lead readers into Book 3, but I was hoping more would have been filled along the way.
Oh yeah. It's amazing . . . and even better than the first.
I am unable to type properly due to an extreme amount of emotion going through me at the present time. I am also thoroughly angered by the fact there aren't more than 5 stars to fill in. I feel something like this:       I will try and post up an actual review on my blog...once I get over my fangirling and that horrible mournful feeling that is associated with the fact that I have just realised that Four isn't real and I will never become a Dauntless and marry him. Real life sucks. Majorly.(Prev
I will try and post up an actual review on my blog...once I get over my fangirling and that horrible mournful feeling that is associated with the fact that I have just realised that Four isn't real and I will never become a Dauntless and marry him.
But, of course, people just have to rain on my parade and say "You know Four and Tris aren't going to last!"
Uh uh - I don't think so!I'm going to stop now, and go back to counting down the seconds until I get my hands on a copy of Insurgent!
Will he become a better person or will he stay an a-hole?EDITFirst of all,I am NOT one of those people who give 5 star rating to every damn book they read(obviously) so I am NOT going to give Insurgent 5 stars just because Divergent was great.
I know all of my friends will say I am crazy for not liking this book but after reading books for so many years I just can't put up with certain things.
The Elena Gilbert type of MC-she is always selfless,tries to do the right thing all of the freaking time.
Now I'm thinking that I probably never really liked Tris.
You believe you know them, that you understand them, but their motives are always hidden from you, buried in their own hearts.
You will never know them, but sometimes you decide to trust them.” So much better than the first one!
The factions are so fleshed out, we see rounded characters with numerous flaws and traits.
I loved Tris’ character development, she has learned and changed from the way she was in book 1 and her relationship with Tobias is supportive and healthy.
When war breaks out among the factions and Erudite begin using simulations to control the minds of others it is time to act.
The series went downhill from this book. I still liked it.
Meh. I really liked the first book, but somehow this one just didn't grab me as much...
Not at all.IT OBLITERATED IT.Insurgent picks up instantly where Divergent left off, with Tris, Four (Tobias), Marcus, Caleb and Peter having escaped the horrors of the Erudite attack and now seeking refuge in Amity.
But Insurgent is the most thrilling, emotionally evocative and addictive (you must have god-like willpower if you can put this down for a SECOND) sequel I have ever had the jaw-popping, eye-bulging, electrifying joy to read.
Sometimes I wish Tris was more expressive with him, because you could see in certain moments the pain and sadness he was holding back, but it made for the kind of emotional angst that is torturously delightful.
But in this case it kind of just felt like,EVIL PERSON: SO, WHO WANTS TO DIE?TRIS:She just kept wanting to die to save everyone else––but then at the last second she would change her mind, and then someone else would have to come and save her butt.
They would probably be like, "Gee, thanks." Although this one I'm not so angry about, since later on in the book Tris said something along the lines of, "Well, actually I realized that Johanna isn't beautiful despite her scar, but with her scar." So, okay Veronica.
Like a wild animal, the truth is too powerful to remain caged.This is the opening line of Insurgent.
Divergent is one of the best dystopian books I have ever read.
Unlike Divergent this book does not focus only on the action, but it also goes deeper into character's emotions and feelings.
How can a book be both action-driven and character-driven?
In the second part of the book things happen that I wasn't expecting at all.
This twist is what made me to love this book so much.
One of the best dystopian trilogies and books out there right now!
