https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/436609.Fallen_Angels
Fallen Angels was read, by me, several times in approximately sixth grade to junior high school, and I still can't believe that pre-teen Rachel chose to wrench herself from an endless diet of RL Stine and Christopher Pike for a serious book about a serious moment of historical relevance like the Vietnam War. But this one had a huge effect at the time.
I read several non-fiction books about Vietnam after Fallen Angels, glossing over descriptions of artillery and military maneuvering to the parts about what it was like to actually be in the shit seeing your friends die as teenagers and fearing the same for yourself.
It details both the boredom and life threatening action of the Vietnam war.This will appeal to teens who like war violence.
Boys who want to be soliders or like war will like this book.
The main character in this book cares about his fellow soliders and his family at home who is his first reason for fighting.
When he is out of it for a while, he does not want to go back and in the end he just wants to get out alive and for as many of his friends to get out alive as possible.I would promote this book to teens who like war stories and action.
At this point I don't know why I'm still surprised when I pick up a YA book and it blows me away with its authenticity and depth, but it keeps happening.
The book touches on some of the underlying issues of race in Vietnam, but I'd actually probably have preferred a little heavier exploration of the racial tensions.
The book captures the bond that springs up between these young men (boys really) in time of war.
The men, well...boys, really, admire another guy's larger, nasty-looking gun.
Perry learns the first rule of war - "Hours of boredom, seconds of terror." He sees his first dead bodies and learns that a dead friend is a human being to be treated with respect.
He does things he is not proud of having done.
"They died because they were in Nam, where being scared made you do things you would regret later."The book's combat scenes are brutal, including one "Holy Shit!" moment that I had to read twice to actually believe what I had just read.
"Because usually they get boys to fight wars."
I picked up a special anniversary edition of Fallen Angels last week while I was at the Tattered Cover Bookstore in Denver because I’d read Lockdown, his 2010 release, and loved it and the subject matter – the Vietnam War – interested me.
Fallen Angels was originally published in 1988 and is a horrific account of the Vietnam War froma 17-year old African-American boy from Harlem’s perspective.
Richie Perry’s first person, grunt’s eye view is highly compelling and perfectly describes the horror and chaos of both firefights and the psychological impact of the war on American soldiers.Before I read this book I thought The Things They Carried, by Tim O’Brien, was the best book I’d read on the Vietnam War but this one tops it.
I thought that Fallen Angels was one of the best books that ive ever read. It really shows the life in vitnam and what they really had to go threw. I would give it 5 star rating. I would also recomend this book to anyone that likes war books.
I won't be writing about all of them, but I thought this exceptional--and wonderfully narrated.
Published in 1988, it's the story of Richie Perry, 17, whose dreams of college are dashed so he enlists in the army.
Lots of details of what it's like--and he's an introspective first person narrator, so we get more than just what happened.
This is a timeless story of young men and war.
Not much changes: life is tediouss and dangerous, friends are injured and die, the war is mostly boring but when it's not, it's a nightmare, especially in Nam where Perry almost never sees the enemy, just knows he's there.
When the troops are taken back to camp, Peewee and Perry talk about the experiences that they have gained from the firefight that they had with the Vîet Công soldiers and what was going through their minds at the time of the firefight.
A few days later, Peewee, Perry, and a few other soldiers are sent out in a patrol to sweep out Vîet Công positions on a hill that overlooks the American camp.
Peewee and Perry then try to get back to camp, but Peewee is wounded as a Vîet Công soldier finds them.
It was a good book, with a good story to tell, but it also felt repetative and slow, but I guess in the case of our main character, slow, was a very good thing indeed.
U.S.A., 1960's, Perry is drafted into the U.S. Military, and sent to the front-line in Vietnam.
Perry's family lives in Harlem, whom have a military background.
Facing a new group of friends, Perry learns of war stories from them, being there for a year or two.
Perry soon learns of the horrors of war, and faces many Vietcong along the rice fields, and many dead comrades.
Getting multiple diseases from the jungles of Vietnam, including dysentery, Perry learns the “war” is not all it lives up to be.
Perry finally realizes that this war is useless, and wants to get his year of service over with and leave back to the states.
Myers shows us the Vietnam war through the eyes of Perry, a young man whose enlistment seemed like his best option for a future, until he's actually in country.
In country, Myers shows us, there is no real safety, and no peace, only quiet sometimes, which leaves too much time to think--or, when gunfire erupts and flares are going off and the enemy comes out of the darkness, there's no time to think at all.I know a book is getting to me when I am afraid for the characters, because those characters are so like real persons who could have lived through the same events in the story.
The characters are all entertaining but it's their dialog that feels so real and honest that it draws the reader in.
While it is awful and violent, it isn't overwhelmingly so, often portraying the boredom of sitting around in camp and focusing more on the feelings of the characters rather than their actions.
In fact, the mediation between feeling and action is rather nice because it provides a really good look at what was going on in Vietnam and how people were dealing with it.
I picked up and put down this book several times before I finally forced myself to finish.
There are very few books Sam can claim to have read that I haven't and that meant I HAD to finish this one.
I am not particularly fond of coming of age stories or war books and Fallen Angels is a very realistic story about coming of age in the midst of the Vietnam War. However, despite how much I disliked it while reading it, I find I enjoyed the story.
The book looks at racism, patriotism, and fear.
I had trouble getting into this book.
I found this a really hard book to get through emotionally.
I don't tend to pick up war books (in fact, I've started Sunrise Over Fallujah, also by Walter Dean Myers, about twice and couldn't get past the first ten pages or so), I think because of the inevitability of dying in the book and the notion of soldiers dedicating their lives for something that powers way above them are deciding.
The book is dedicated to Walter Dean Myer's brother, who died in Vietnam and must have been an incredibly emotional book to write.
The author of this book has very good description.
In the beginning of the book, the main character and his squadron are on a patrol.
But one down side is the cussing.
Almost on every page there is a cuss word.
Half way through the book, the army finds 2 children and there mother.
Then the book got dark.
After the first child blew up, and they shot the mom, then they stopped.
They looked at the second child as he stood there.
At this point, I didn't to read what would happen.
And I hated what happened.
As silly as it may seem, this book was just a little too real for me.
So, in a way, that would indicate the writing is incredibly effective.
However, it was painful to read.
I hate war, and the story mostly just depressed me.
I can't say anything against the writing, only the content.
As an afterthought: I had to read this book for school and I think any time someone told me I HAD to read something my mind immediately decided to not like it.
So I should probably read it again by my own choice and see what I think of it now.
Great vietnam book. Beautiful insight into the war. We were able to see the horrors that a soldier would experience in Vietnam. We see the good the bad and the ugly as rich perry wades through mud and dives into gunfire to save squad mates and team members. This book was very good and i gave it 5 stars. Mr. Meyers could not have done better. Come see me if you'd like spoilers.
Richie is an African-American soldier who was drafted right out of high school.
Immediately, he is found making friends with his new squad mates.
Not too far into the book, one of his new mates is killed by a mine.
This is when Perry comes to realize that the war is real.
This book really intrigued me because I enjoy learning of war and history.
This book is aimed at high school to young adult readers.
But, anyone who enjoys action, war, or history should find this book at the top of their list.
Fallen angels is a novel that depicts the tragedy change and life during the war.The story begins when 18 year old Richie joins the army as is sent to vietnam.
But during the war the north vietnamese the only enemy because being a African american is not to easy at that time and he has to put with many racist officers.
But I would warn readers that this book is very detailed and decrypts war.
The plot is your typical emotional roller coaster.
By that I mean there are connections made between the main character and his peers, but these connections are altered frequently by consequences of war (such as death or being sent away).
An emotional roller coaster for both the main character and the reader.
I don't know much about the Vietnam War myself, but I'd imagine this book portrays it rather well.
Moving on, one of the themes in this book is loss of youth and innocence.
Although for a book based on a war, it's not surprising seeing a theme such as this one show up.
I read this book a couple of times in junior high. It struck me so deeply that when recently reading In the Shadow of the Banyan Tree, it came to mind. I was curious to read something that I felt was so impacting during my formative years. It was just as engaging and fabulous as it had been all those years ago. It was very different reading it as an adult looking back on a17 year old rather than a young teen looking up. It truly is a fabulous book that stands the test of time.
When he gets to Vietnam, he believes the fake news that peace is almost there, that things were cooling down, and that he wouldn’t have to do anything seriously dangerous.
When he gets back to the war, things are worse for him than ever, after his former squad leader was killed and replaced with a racist who always put the African American men in the platoon in the most dangerous spots.
Richie goes into this book with what Hollywood would have you believe, tried war for himself, and came out knowing that anything romantic about war, any fantasies about noble sacrifice, were false.
Best book I have ever read in along time. The book is thrilling as it shows the true brotherhood of a group of guys in the jungles of Vietnam. Perry (The main character) learns life and death as he fights to stay alive in the boonies with his squad of brothers.
lit book
really good book solid read
I expected a heartfelt and suspenseful book about the Vietnam War. My grandfather fought in the Vietnam War and I thought I would understand his perspective a little better if I read this book.
I had some background knowledge on the Vietnam War before I read the book so it was easy to understand what was going on during the intense battle scenes.One theme that stood out to me was the unpleasant reality of war.
Chaotic sequences and inefficient plans were often the case in Vietnam.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone that is interested in history (specifically war) and who is not bothered by descriptive war scenes.
This book is one of the best I have read so far. The characters and scenery really pop out, and you can imagine everything that you hear
I thought this book was going to be quite light-hearted; I was wrong. Some bits were amusing (i.e. anything involving Peewee) and some bits that were disturbing. I chatted with my mother throughout reading the book, and she told me all about the Viet Cong and the terrifying things they did. A fantastic novel for conveying the extremes of war.
Fallen Angels is the story of Richie Perry, a teenager from Harlem who volunteers for the Vietnam War when he realizes he can't go to college.
We do see bits and pieces of his life outside of Vietnam, but they're only in memories and occasionally in letters from home-- I think this is very deliberate, as part of Fallen Angels' point is that war separates you completely from everything you've ever known, and the squad refers to going home as "going back to The World," which implies a total separation from reality.
Overwhelmed by questions that he does not know how to answer himself, Richie enlisted into the war that was going to change how people look at him, feel about him, how he looks at himself, and what’s going to become of this young man once it’s all over.
The war helped Richie mend the distant relationship he has with his mother and it helped him understand the meaning to be something more.Intended Audience: High school studentsCurriculum ties: U.S. Wars; political issuesAwards (optional): 1988 Coretta Scott King AwardPersonal response: “With characteristic insight into the lives of young African-American men, Myers paints an unforgettable picture of tragedy and intense friendships during the Vietnam War.” I was very touched by the narrator.
