https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239887.Comes_the_Blind_Fury
Did you know John Saul was actually two people? And his contract states that he does all the publicity and his husband does most of the actual writing? And they've been doing it this way since they got married in a secret ceremony at midnight in a church back in the 1970's? Saul's life is more interesting than anything in this book.
He even sold his house to Cal. So Cal moves from Boston to Paradise Point with his family---his pregnant wife June, and their twelve-year-old adopted daughter Michelle.One day, while unpacking, Michelle finds an old-fashioned antique doll in her closet and she names it Amanda.
She later finds out from her friends at school that there's rumors of a ghost that roams the cliffs of Paradise Point---the ghost of a twelve-year-old blind girl that fell off the cliff to her death after being taunted by her classmates over a hundred years ago, and her name was Amanda.
3.5 StarsNot bad for a simple thriller - easy to read and creepy in several places.I started reading Saul from the beginning of his career and in these early books he definitely has a formula - in a couple of months I am pretty sure I will not remember if something happened in this book or the others I have read. But, i do enjoy these and will probably read more.
I have read a few John Saul’s in the past but this one was a bit different, it went deeper into the psyche of the characters he created making their grief and pain so much more realistic.
It seemed to be the perfect spot for a growing family from Boston, the Pendletons with a new baby on the way and their young daughter Michelle found it charming but not for long.
Taking over the town clinic wasn’t as easy as Cal Pendleton thought, he was still scared from losing his young patient who happened to fall of the roof of his new house when strange things have started happening to his adopted daughter Michelle.
Rather generic, but chilling and haunting enough to be memorable. John Saul's novel is filled with cliffhangers, complex characters and eerie false innocence that'll leave you ever-wondering.
A haunted story that involves children.
Years later she is a ghost that haunts Michelle who recently moved to the area.This book entertained me throughout but it wasn't his best offering.
Essentially, this book is about how cruel kids can be and the isolation caused by this cruelty.
The author did an excellent job with the main character and her descent into this isolation.
It worked perfectly and I am glad he went this way.This is a decent ghost possession story that is also a quick read.
The message is really important and was the highlight of the book.
This was my first John Saul and had it not been for this one I probably wouldn't have tried for years to get my hands on every John Saul book that was ever written. It was the first of many to be read. Loved it; cover to cover Exceptional Writer. Highly recommend this.
John Saul's early novels are characterized by archaic, Biblical-sounding titles with pictures of people with weird blank eyes. When I searched for John Saul, the first FIRST book on the list is by Dean Koontz. Ah, John Saul, did you want to be Dean Koontz as well as Stephen King? Well, I suppose since you would never be Stephen King, and Dean Koontz for a while was a second-rate Stephen King, then we are left with John Saul, who is the bargain-basement Stephen King.
This books stressed me out in the best possible way. Vivid but heartbreaking characters and great suspense. I all at once needed to know how it ended and dreaded reading the next page.
Twelve-year-old Michelle isn't sure what to expect when her family moves from Boston to the tiny seaside village of Paradise Point.
As it turns out, there was an Amanda who lived in Paradise Point long ago, a twelve-year-old blind girl who was mocked by her classmates, until she plunged to her death from a seaside cliff.
She soon makes a new friend named Amanda, a blind girl dressed all in black, who always appears in a thick cloud of fog.
There is something just palpably wrong with Paradise Point, with its people, and with the small cemetery next to Michelle's new home.
This was the first John Saul book that I read and I was completely hooked on his books from day one. They are well written, interesting, and easy to read. This is the only author that I own every single book he has written and when a new one comes out I buy it without even looking to see what it is about. He is THAT good!
Read it when I was 12. Scared me to death. About to reread it again 13 years later! :-D
While I loved this book - classic John Saul - and read it within a two days - I felt that some of the characters acted like props.
The father figure turns easily into a complete *hole.
The mother figure goes with it and tries to make everyone happy without really doing anything about it.
It was a classic John Saul story - something horrible happen in the past and the house is haunted in some sense because of it and the new family has to deal.
The Ghost Story rocked.
The characters needed some work.
My sister and I were on a big John Saul kick when we were in junior high and high school. We eventually got tired of the formulaic storytelling but for a while there we were hooked. This one was about a blind girl who winds up dying while being teased by a group of kids and she comes back to enact her revenge. I think I'll stay away from any re-reads and just be happy with my memories of this one!
Haven't read early John Saul since I was a teenager. Can't remember hardly a thing other than they scared me at the time and contributed to my love of horror. I can't imagine any of his books would have the same effect on me now. John Saul just isn't that good of a writer, even all these years later, I don't think he's gotten any better.
I have actually read this book twice. The first time was when I was a tween. I reread it recently because I had always been bragging about what a great book it was. This book is a great starter book for someone who wants to get into the horror genre. Nothing gruesome particularly disturbing occurs in this story.
I haven't read this in years. My rating may change if I were to read it now. I just remember loving the premise of this book, I would read it over and over again.
I loved it! Great book for being my first John Saul book I read.I give it 5 stars
This book was pretty good, definitely spooky at times, if it was a movie I probably couldn't watch it, but it was a fun read. Fast-paced and attention grabbing!
John Saul isn't particularly adventurous with venturing far off formulas, but I remember enjoying this one. It needs a re-read to refresh my memory and so I can give it a proper review.
Pretty darn terrible.
A ghost story. A horror novel. Sorry, but not scary in the least. At least it had an interesting plot.
Ghostly retribution and creepy dolls, what's not to like.
Geen grond niets...Honderd jaar later verhuist Michelle met haar stiefouders naar Paradise Point.
Michelle weet niet wat er gebeurt, maar weet dat iets haar in zijn greep houdt.---Een boek met spanning en verrassing vanaf het begin.
Zoals de meeste boeken van John Saul.De vier sterren zijn omdat de spanning oploopt, het verhaal lekker leest en het verhaal je in zijn greep houdt.
Saul maakte een verhaallijn, schreef het uit en hoopte dat het goed genoeg was.
Naast auteur is Saul ook acteur, scriptschrijver en is 1 van zijn boeken in 1984 uitgebracht als film.
I don’t remember how old I was the first time I read “Comes The Blind Fury”.
It was published in 1980 and was one of my Mom’s Doubleday Book Club picks.
So much so that I have re-read it almost every year since.The only fault I found when reading it this time around was the use of the word “cripple” by the adults in the story.
It’s one thing to read it used as a taunt by the other children, but to have the adults refer to someone as a “cripple” was a bit jarring.
Here's the thing with John Saul - at least some of his earlier stuff from the late 70s, early 80s: his characters make decisions and act based on the needs of the plot, rather than on their own internal logic.
There's a lot to like about this story.
It's rare these days that I get really creeped out by a book, but there are some images early on in here that really feel like they're going somewhere; really gave me a chill.
Unfortunately, the characters were so poorly realised that as the story progressed, their motivations seemed to become less clear, and their actions and decision less justified.
Saul doesn't pull any punches in this old school horror yarn. As ususal the supernatural is low key, a mencaing undercurrent, whilst the actions of the central charatcers are the keystones of this pageturner. The fractured family and little-girl-lost approach were far fresher back when this was written, however it plats out better than many of today's similar stories.The writing is a little clumsy for Saul, the stalling in the middle parts distracting, however the final fifth made this one of his more memorable tales.
So it was a book I couldn't put down but the subject of killing kids didn't sit well with me, this was the first book I have read by John Saul and it wasn't too bad! I order more of his books just made sure there would be no killing of children in them
Oh my gosh this book is a complete page turner I could not put it down. The story line is terrific and just over all... a great book.
