https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220894.The_Public_and_its_Problems
While those casual meanings are all well and good, I wish we'd reconnect with pragmatism as a philosophy, and along with that what it has to say about matters that Dewey discusses in this book, like defining the public, exploring the relationship between the public and the state, providing room for conflict and a diversity of legitimate interests, etc.
Many (including me, on my dark days) would say that deliberation is unrealistic in the modern era, but I'd actually say that the time is even more right than in Dewey's day.
For class.An examination of the problems of modern democracy, and attempts to define and separate the 'state' and the 'public', noting that the earliest democratic institutions were organized around smaller city-states, and the introduction of these institutions on a national scale is an innovation, but also brings with it numerous problems.
In democracies, the public elects officials in the state, who enter into a commonwealth, etc., etc., etc.Views United States in its early history as jettisoning traditional authorities and preferring independence of individual communities.
Democracy as means of preventing unhinged power by officials through checks and balances, and promoting individual sovereignty.
Any "community" we have is generally very small based on a handful of common interests with others and a single person may be a member of multiple "publics" or "communities", sometimes even at odds with one another.Until society can find some way to use its collective knowledge and advances in technology and communication, we can never truly have a "Great Community" in the sense of a solid national or global community all united and on the same page.What was very intriguing to me is that this book was written 80 years ago and many of the anecdotes he uses could be used today without changing any of the language.
Here's a few (disjointed) notes and quotations from Dewey.Dewey argues that the public/private distinction is not simply an individual/social distinction, because private acts can be social: "their consequences contribute to the welfare of the community or affect its status and prospects" (13).
Dewey seems to define social as something that is largely good for society, and thus some public acts are not "socially useful" (14).Dewey's ontology of humanity is one of becoming: unlike other things that associate, a human "becomes a social animal in the make-up of his ideas, sentiments and deliberate behavior" (25).
Technology create means that affect how we associate.Finally, "the first and last problem" that we must address "is the relation of the individual to the social" (186).
A little obtuse in its wording, Dewey still manages to make some cutting critiques of the public's role in governance. Being a bit of a newcomer to the political scene, some of it was a bit confusing to me, but it was definitely an interesting read.
it is a hard book to warp your head around, it's tiny but delicate book, it's mainly about hypothesi
some good points, but honestly I expected more given rorty's account of him. i guess it's all in rorty
(141) Dewey believed that until communities re-form, the public “will remain in eclipse” (142) because it is only community that can generate the knowledge and understanding necessary for the public to come to grips with complex issues.
(129-132) Without the ability to understand issues on the merits, Dewey also agrees with Lippmann that the public depends on cues and symbols to guide their political participation.
(133) Dewey attributes this as much to social change as a result of industrialization as to the individual’s general incapacity.
For the most part, it's absolutely astonishing that this book was written in 1927: its analysis of our political ills and their technological/economic roots is sharp and accurate today.
Dewey argues that mass technologies - industrialism and mass communications - pretty much necessitate the death of citizenship in favor of consumerism, by weakening strong ties and empowering weak ones, while not being blind to the many advantages of the mass age.
This book is hard to evaluate. It's really a set of working hypotheses on the relationship between public rationality and mass society. He wants to avoid saying that the public is lost for good, like Lippmann and other said before him. Rather it's asleep or eclipsed. The problem is that his plea for increased communication and rationality is never as convincing as his description of democracy's erosion from within. This makes it seem quaint.
Okay this book is not the most interesting book in the world until about the fourth chapter. The writing is a little repetitive. But the idea are very interesting. Also it tends to jive well with both cynicism and optimism that America had the exact same problems almost a hundred years ago. Sure it hasn't gotten any better, but at least it isn't getting worse. The book also assumes a lot about the capacity of people which is as always endearing.
Oh where oh where has the public gone oh where oh where could it be? Poor John Dewey, like Machiavelli, Montesquieu, Rousseau, and Tocqueville before him; they just want selfish individualists to give a shit about their polity and inject a good shot of republican spirit into political discourse. I am sensitive to both their arguments and cause.
Very interesting look at how we view community in relation to political thought. Dewey does a great job of drawing to the fore the way we see certain political institutions as "sacred" and view with a reverence that...they might not truly deserve. A difficult read, but a good one.
This book has so much to offer!!! Dewey is so so optimistic about the public, but I got behind it tbh. If you're uncomfortable with seeing the world through an ideological lens, read up! It may be impossible for his propositions to ever become a reality but a girl can dream \_(ツ)_/
This book has so much to offer!!! Dewey is so so optimistic about the public, but I got behind it tbh. If you're uncomfortable with seeing the world through an ideological lens, read up! It may be impossible for his propositions to ever become a reality but a girl can dream ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
John Dewey rocks the house. He puts his finger on problems that (sadly, perhaps) we still have not managed to resolve, without caving in to pessimism or cynicism. For instance, He is thinking about prospects for "glocalization" well before Roland Robertson coined the term.
The type of professor who assigns this book wants you to learn something about American political thought - I'm just not sure what.
Decent. There are others I'd recommend first.
My head is spinnnnnnnninggggggggg
You know a book is good when your very first thought upon finishing it is "...damn." And that's "damn" pronounced as "dayum," as in "daaaaayum that's a good book."
timely as ever!
