https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21343.The_Five_Dysfunctions_of_a_Team
I've been in corporate America for just under 4 years now.
And just when I thought I was alone, I read this book and was completely blown away.
Everything I've felt, is here, written down in this book.
I feel a bit like Jerry Mcguire did after writing his 'Mission Statement.' I want to buy copies of this book and put it in the mailboxes of management across corporate America.
or be forced by a higher hand.
I can't force others who don't see it themselves, and as the low man on the totem pole, its a hard to play the upper hand.
Please keep that in mind.What I mean by a model as a method versus a tool, is that when a model is presented to help people try and understand how something functions I have no problem with it.
When someone takes a model and tries to impose it on the world and say this is the way things are, then I balk.Regarding corporate literature in general, I won't say that it is useless, because it certainly isn't, but it has only a fractional effect as compared to actually experiencing working in a good team or for a good leader.
The model in pyramid form: Lack of trust: In this bottom stage, team members are hesitant to open up about their fears or insecurities about a project.
Fear of Conflict: Fearing retribution or political consequences, team members avoid rigorous debate over the issues and decisions that matter most.
Low team involvement in how decisions are shaped and carried out leads to weak buy- in.Avoidance of Accountability: When commitment is low, excuses are readily available when results are not achieved.
In highly functional teams the pyramid, inverted, is just as relevant: High levels of trust leads to healthy, constructive candor in the service of unearthing the best ideas.
This is another one of my “have to” and not “want to” reads.
I would never even consider reading one of these types of books for fun, they are not my style at all.
The information they contain is usually common sense stuff that people are aware of but unwilling or unable to incorporate into their day-to-day work lives.
The length was acceptable as well as the writing style so I would place it a little higher on my Dull Jane shelf.
Simply, this book is "Must read books" list, I liked the story way to write the book, and the simple make Sense model of the five dysfunctions of teams I already recommended this books to my friends, it's must read for every oneI will recommend that the reader should be ware of "Tuckman's stages of group development" which will put this book in the right context
She has the courage to attack the difficult issues rarely losing her composure and delivers criticism in a way that it mostly encourages discussion and positive conflict.
As difficult as it is to admit, I saw myself a couple of times in some of the characters.
I still think it would be a tall order to effectively change the dynamics of work teams across this great country.
We are a culture based on competition and individual success and it will be quite challenging to change that direction.
How lovely if things were actually this simple.
forced to read this one for work. did some awful group work with it also. really not that helpful in a bullshit retail situation.
First line: "Only one person thought Kathryn was the right choice to become CEO of DecisionTech, Inc.Summary: Lencioni identifies five problems with executive teams, which he presents through a story (fable) and then analyzes.Spoilers!
Teams need to be able to have passionate debate and walk away with no collateral damage.
Here, they’re talking about teammates being able to call each other on poor performance, rather than having all accountability done by the team leader.
In particular, putting personal goals above team goals.They seems like fine goals.
The story was lousy for fiction, though great for a reference book, and it did illustrate the problems.
'Five Dysfunctions' is a great example.
While I'd love to rip into this book's awkward narrative structure, cartoonish characters, and childish melodrama, I'm certain many already have.
If this book is to be considered a fable, it is only for its oversimplification and pretensions to wisdom.
'Five Dysfunctions' is no better than a toy compass on your journey through it.
One redemptive, practical use for this book might be reading it with everyone in your dysfunctional group to provide a framework vocabulary to discuss real issues.
(Also, if anyone has a passionate hatred for its structure and content, promote them.)
Was chosen for a work thing, then we all realized that it didn't apply to our group, because we actually aren't dysfunctional at all, so we scrapped our plan to discuss it and went skiing instead!That being said, I did learn some very valuable lessons...ok, I didn't...but I did read it, at least. For the good of the team.
I decided to give it another read as I remembered it to be a good book and since its release it has also gained a reputation as one of the better books on the topics of Leadership and Organizational Development.The book tells a story to illustrate the dysfunctions using the setting of an executive team in a fictitious company.
The real value of the book comes in walking through each dysfunction and understanding what the negative impacts of each are and on the flipside the benefits which curing each can bring.No company or team is perfect; there will always be dysfunction to some level.
This book offers a good yardstick against which a team can measure itself and set goals for improvement.
Skeptical business book reader, I had zero expectations from this book. I only took it because it was less than 150 pages and was recommended by two people whose opinion I respected. I am happy to admit that I was wrong. The book is written as a story of new leader coming to an IT company with poorly acting management team. The way she managed her new team members - very different, often contradicting and conflicting with each other or working in their silos - is great learning process on effective team building.Grandly recommended.
Отличная книга, просто и понятно описан ситуация, инструменты, методы простейшей диагностики команды. Все описанное в книге отзывается мне на 100% и может я бы добавил бы ещё кое-что... В общем, я прочитав понял почему многие предприниматели и лидеры ставят эту книгу в топ-10 к обязательному прочтению менеджерами. Я тоже беру книгу в топ-10.
Certainly a guide most of us are in dire need of or everyone should at least read once. It's necessary for teams or groups not just in the corporate world, but I think in all areas, even in university or school level.The translation by Farjana Mobin, and Onnorokom Prokashoni was just amazing. It's like I have become a part of Katheryn's team myself. Hats off to the translating team for bringing such an important book to the attention of the people of this country and hats off to the author for writing so clearly.
What makes meetings boring is that they don't have conflict (movies are interesting because they have conflict, and so are meetings).Dysfunction 3: Lack of CommitmentWithout having aired opinions in debate, team members rarely buy in and commit to decisions, though they may feign agreement in meetings.
When holding people accountable, assume they have the team's best interests in mind and are trying to be helpful, but still push them.Dysfunction 5: Inattention to ResultsOccurs when team members put individual needs (ego, career development, recognition) or divisions above collective goals of team.
Focus on achievement of collective results.How to avoid dysfunctionsDysfunction 1: Build trust by sharing personality profiles (Myers Briggs), 360 degree feedback.Dysfunction 2: Acknowledge conflict can be productive.
A new CEO renowned for her experience in building teams is brought in to shake things up; the story revolves around her dealings with the various personalities within the company and her attempts to steer the company around.The five dysfunctions of a team outlined in this book are quite simple, and their results are also outlined:1.) Absence of trust LEADS TO need for invulnerability2.) Fear of conflict LEADS TO fear of conflict3.) Lack of commitment LEADS TO ambiguity4.) Avoidance of accountability LEADS TO low standards5.) Inattention to results LEADS TO individual status and ego over the teamI’m not going to go into too much detail here; read the book.
In the same section where he condemns consensus building, Lencioni does emphasize the need for "buy in" among team members.
What a business book fails to tell parish leaders is that the congregation needs some of that "buy in." Although the dysfunctions described in this book harm churches far more than pushy leaders, a church functions in a spiritual realm and our message is discredited when a few people who believe they know best (and don't care about their fellow congregation members to share their vision of what that "best" is) start making unilateral decisions.
This is the best business book I've read, which is to say, it wasn't complete garbage.
This was helpful, I think.
I liked the suggestions for nonintrusive team-building exercises re personal histories and work contributions (below).
Personal history exercise:"I want to hear about your life as a child, but I am not interested in your inner child."(1) Hometown?(2) # kids in the family?(3) Interesting childhood hobbies?(4) Biggest challenge growing up?(5) First job?Work contributions exercise: each person answers these 2 questions about everyone on the team, then share.(1) Identify the single most important contribution each peer makes to the team.(2) Identify one area to improve upon or eliminate for the good of the team.
I'm so sad that this is the first book I've finished in 2012.
It was chosen for a book study at school.
It's an easy read, and has some very good points and good information for team building.
But, books like this are just annoying to me.
They just aren't my thing.Kathryn takes over as CEO of a software company and works to rebuild the leadership team of vice-presidents.
I really enjoyed this little book. It's been on my list for a while, and got moved to the front of the list as we're going to discuss it at a management retreat next month. I can see why it is a classic. It covers several problems in team dynamic that resonate with things we're already discussing. It is immediately on-topic and actionable.
"In the context of building a team, trust is the confidence among team members that their peers' intentions are good, and that there is no reason to be protective or careful around the group. In essence, teammates must get comfortable being vulnerable with one another."This.
Grāmata darbam - izlasi; izdari; paskaties, kas izdevās. Lasi atkal, dari atkal un tā līdz vēlamajam rezultātam.
من الجدير ان يتسأل المرء الذي يعيش في مجتمع يعتمد بدرجة اولى على العمل الجماعي ماسبب فشلنا على رغم المهارات و الطاقة الهائلة التي يحظى بها الفريق! يسعى الكاتب لتوضيح خمس عوامل تؤدي لخلل العمل الجماعي من ثم يطرح بعض الحلول الفعالة.. كتاب مفيد جدًا لمن يعمل في فرق سواء علميًّا او عمليًا او حياتيًا.
When I was invited to participate in a book club at work and read and discuss the business book The Five Dysfunctions of a Team I was thrilled to participate, but my excitement was more in being able to interact with other leaders and not as much regarding the book itself.
Yet, I do believe there are lessons to be learned here even in the absence of having a team or club to interact with while reading the book.
The heroine is Kathryn, the new CEO brought in to turn them and the company around.Told as a story, this is a pretty good method of teaching what the dysfunctions are while giving examples of what they look like in team dynamics.
It's not one of those books that one person alone can read and then transform into lasting change.Then again, someone could read this and look for things they do when interacting with their teams.
I'd recommend it to folks who enjoy reading books about teamwork, and those who'd rather get their team advice via a story rather than a manual.I borrowed the review copy of this book.
Easy to read & understand.2.
How many corporations would encourage the principles of argument & conflict especially where senior management is concerned?3.
Can the dynamics of human behavior be predictable with agreed principles?Conclusion:A good book to read and contemplate about.
In a world where competitiveness & politics slithers its way through the dark corners of corporate unpredictability, this book would be a lofty goal worth pursuing, however, it will continue to remain a improbable mountain to climb.Overall Rating6 out of 10Loy Machedoloymachedo.com
Patrick Lencioni classified 5 dysfucntions of a team:  1.
Lack of commitment  4.
It is not important for the theme of this book, just make me feel strange when reading this section.
However, I would consider Lack of commitment as the most important of all.
We can find many cases of poor team performance based on this.
The individual is trustworth, aggressive, but as the story say, it come to no commitment and accountability in group works.
Then how the team leader treat the members fair is critical, especially, tasks to each person is different and very difficult to compare.
Good book ...
well, good ideas anyway.
Just like I like the idea of a business novel/fable.
Still, it's more interesting than the usual business book.What sets this book apart is not the sophistication of its ideas.
Each idea on its own is commonsensical.
In fact, the idea of seeking conflict in order to generate buy in may even be revolutionary :D Now, it would be easy to take these ideas too far ...
So this book may become more and more necessary as conflict and unanimity become higher and higher values.
