https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25937741-half-a-lifelong-romance
Introduction, by Karen S. KingsburyNote on Romanization--Half a Lifelong Romance
4.9/5 It was a memory she could not outlive. You should take the average rating as a more accurate representation of my views than what the current star system will afford. When I read Love in a Fallen City, I didn't have half the proper awareness that I have now, so what went into that book's positive rating was a feeling half proud of, half in love with the sense of venturing where few readers my age, at that time and to my perspective, ha gone before. Misguided as that was, it led me to Chang
I'm never going to know what I missed by reading/watching all of this and more in English translation, but the little I'm able to get has made me happy that Eileen Chang is a star in the country of her birth.
"I can't do this to her—she's already sacrificed so much for our family's sake.""I have nothing but sympathy for your sister and what she's been through," Shijun said, "but other people don't see it in the way we do.
These are the dominant themes in ‘Half a Life-Long Romance’, which follows the stories of four principle characters; the reserved Shijun and the equally reticent yet delicate Manzhen, as well as the more boisterous pairing of Shuhui and Tsuizhi.
All four characters are led astray by their emotions, or by family and friends and ‘Half a Lifelong Romance’ explores the impact of the choices we make and how we live with our decisions, it is a story about human imperfections and how we constantly misunderstand and misconstrue one another’s intentions-there are few happy couples in the story and this perhaps reflective of Chang’s own unhappy love life.There is something elegant, something ethereal about Chang’s prose style.
A fantastic female writer. It is her poignancy that I love so much. This is a woman who had loved and lost, in a turbulent time in history. War, love, a wait of half a lifetime, holding on and letting go. Eileen Chang is one of my favorite writers. A woman who knew about women.
It is translated from the Chinese I did not know about Eileen Chang before reading this novel.
This was a perfect start for me to get to know the author, thanks to The Boxwalla book box.What to expect:- very slow.
As in extremely slow.
Rather I wanted to read faster and know what happens in the lives of the main characters.- Set in 1930s Shanghai-On the whole it is a love story.-It deals with duty towards family, wealth and lack of it, patriarchy, love, place of women in society-It is a beautiful story.
New favorite book?This might be my new favorite book.Review forthcoming.
Half A Lifelong Romance is perhaps Eileen Chang's most popular novel, telling the story of Gu Manzhen and Xu Shijun, between whom love quickly blossoms yet traditional family pressures and events beyond their control soon destroy any possibility of their future together.
Kingsbury, is perfectly able to capture the everyday struggles of pre-1949 China, the "boudoir realism" for which she was often derided by her contemporaries instead explores the everyday lives of ordinary, middle-class Chinese, for whom daily life was marked not by a cataclysmic battle for the soul of the nation but by finding love and dealing with family and business concerns.
Description: Manjing is a young worker in a Shanghai factory, where she meets Shujun, the son of wealthy merchants. Despite family complications, they fall in love and begin to dream of a shared life together - until circumstances force them apart. When they are reunited after a separation of many years, can they start their relationship again? Or is it destined to be the romance of only half a lifetime? This affectionate and captivating novel tells the moving story of an enduring love affair, and offers a fascinating window onto Chinese life in the first half of the twentieth century.
(I still have no idea how I got this book--it showed up on my doorstep one day.)This book was enjoyable for the most part. I need to read more books that don't take place in the US or Western Europe, and Chang's writing flowed enough so I wasn't bored, even though not a whole lot happened. I knocked off a star because there was a sexual assault that was just kind of breezed over, but it bothered me for a good 50 pages. All in all, I'd recommend this.
我们回不去了。
I chose this book since it had the highest rate on Goodreads.About the book itself:For me it was so much fun to find out lots of information about Chinese culture (during 1930's and 1940's) The similarity between Iranian and Chinese culture was more that I thought.
The traditional families and sexism in the families was annoying and upsetting.
Lots of misunderstanding among people while you know stories from the both sides and watch how they waste their lives because of those misunderstandings was annoying and stressful!
Apparently there are a movie and series adoption from the book but I don't have the nerve to watch!
Every time I read a book that I thought I would enjoy or is the kind of book I would typically enjoy and then I don't, I think there's something that I'm missing. I stopped this book at around 30% and I just couldn't push through.
Eileen Chang's focus is love, romance, and marriage, but here that unholy trinity is the gateway to a life of submission, suffering, and sorrow: "All they'd had was a little piece of happiness, a moment that passed all too quickly." The lovers' own hesitation first separates them, but then the twin evils of greed and war complete the division, and lead them into a world where a love meant to be, fails.
Half a Lifelong Romance is a story of unrequited, unspoken love, and selfish, horrific betrayal.
Came expecting heartbreak and a sweet youthful romance kinda in the style of Love in the Time of Cholera but what did I get instead?!
I get that the book is very much a product of it's time and it speaks so much of a modern yet so backward time where the characters are struggling to make the jump to modernity, yet keep getting held back by familial ties and obligations, as well as the cultural consciousness of the time.
& the ending basically ruined me: the half a lifetime's worth of romance ends up as nothing but dust, each character coming to the conclusion that obligations and the society they live in has no more leeway for the fresh, young romance of their youth.
I want to throttle every character in this book, except the country doctor. Only a Chinese person could write a tragedy that turns entirely on things oveheard, things failed to be said, things assumed to be understood.
3.5I flip flopped through this book—going from ok, to good, to ok, to good again. I think there’s a sense of space with this book that has all of the “what ifs” and “if only I’s” and longing and yearning that’s so good but I found myself enjoying the atmosphere in Chang’s writing more than the story.
She's also the author for Lust, Caution (色,诫), and its film adaptation is released in 2007 (it is with this film that Director Ang Lee won the Golden Lion Award at the Venice Film Festival for the second time.) Set in 1930s Shanghai, Half a Lifelong Romance is a dramatic story of love, betrayal and family oppression revolving Shen Shijun and Gu Manzhen; two young people who fell in love with each other but unfortunately their love is tested and torn by circumstances and family pressures.
I'm not into romances but thought this would be an interesting change of pace.
It's a story of two people who spark a potential romance, except to be sidelined by family drama, societal expectations, etc.
Since I've read mostly Western (really, US/British authors) romances, I was perfectly fine with reading one where the two do not end up together.
However...I thought the book was terrible.
I'm okay with books that take awhile to get going but after awhile it just wasn't worth it.
Maybe it wasn't the right time or maybe the romance genre as a whole is just not one for me, regardless of the author's background.
Will love flourish if you "learn" to "properly" love someone?
Will that make love persevere through anything?
Or will that only kill love, slowly and so ironically that it almost wants to make you laugh?
She uses painfully restrained prose to illustrate restrained love in the midst of unfavorable social circumstances, reminding us that lasting love really is a thing of chance: it must persist through social codes, historical traumas (namely the Sino-Japanese war), personal misunderstandings, geographical distance, and the simplest accidents that may occur.
She didn't know that matters of the heart are not that easy to arrange: you can't put feelings in a freezer and expect them to keep, without any change."
An overcast of melancholy paired with a cinematic touch makes this story of star-crossed lover in 1930s and 1940’s Shanghai so heartrending.This is one of Ms. Chang’s most popular novels and was originally serialized in 1948 in a Shanghai magazine but finally thanks to translator, Karen S.
Kingsbury recently published.While at times this novel moves along at the pace of a soap opera, the reader will be so engrossed in the couple’s lives that they will be anxious to read if they finally grabbed their gusto or let themselves be directed by others.
Set in 1930's Shanghai and Nanking against the backdrop of the Japanese invasion, which seems to have surprisingly little to do with this story.
It is very elegantly written, conveying the innermost unspoken conflicts of each of the characters.
But it was a painful book to read.Two young people, coworkers, fall in love, innocently, and almost unexpectedly, but circumstances beyond their control conspire against their happiness.
It had the potential for a great revenge story, but it wasn't that kind of book.
It was a dissatisfying book.
I'm glad I read it, but it pissed me off.
It's about a good woman's life, and how all the coincidences happened to her brought her from the heaven to the hell. What I learned from this book is being good cannot guarantee you to lead a happy life because lots of unexpected things will just happen. What can you do? You cannot do much, since you have no control over them. The only thing you can do is to be strong and face it even when you have to live in regrets.
A fascinating book, despite difficulties in translation and its distance from the Western cannon that makes it difficult to appreciate. Still, the story is as gripping as it is tragic. Despite the cultural and linguistic gap, Chang shapes a timeless story. Timeless may be the wrong word, since time is by far the most important component of the novel.
張愛玲寫出的愛情是生活的,裡頭有吃飯,聊天,散步.世钧與曼楨的愛情在前半部是欣喜的,從不確定到試探摸索後兩情相悅的甜蜜.然而下半部的世事無奈卻讓那愛情變得深刻了,一切的美好都只能夠留在回憶裏,永存.世钧,我們回不去了.愛情故事之外,張所寫的人與人之間的關係有好多不能明言之處.在那個年代裡親戚朋友的關係像張比較密的網,似乎一步稍不留神就會左右周召人的命運.這與現代人考慮事物只看本身的需要和欲望是有差別的.張寫的瑣碎生活包含了一些微妙與細緻的東西,雖不宏偉,可就是文化.
「日子過得真快，尤其是對於中年以後的人，十年八年都好像是指顧間的事。可是對於年輕人，三年五載就可以是一生一世，他和曼楨從認識到分手，不過幾年的工夫，這幾年裡卻經過這麼許多事情,彷彿把生老病死一切的哀樂都經歷到了。」
This is a sad tale which left me feeling blue. The story of Manjin is especially tragic.
4.5 stars... Loved the story. Love the genre. Beautifully portrayed, heartbreaking characters.
Many years passed, when they came across each other, the heroine said very sadly to the hero, ”We can never go back to the past.” Summary In old Shanghai of 1930s, Manzhen Gu, Shuhui Xu and Shijun Shen worked together.
Analysis  It is a good tragedy which is thought-provoking and can make us think more on social problems and human nature.
The chapter, in which Manlu cheated Manzhen and let Zhu Hongcai insult Manzhen, was good but it ended too quickly.
Conclusion As a whole, this is an impressive tragedy which leaves us a sad ending and makes us more aware of the social problems and human nature.
What happened (view spoiler)[ to Manzhen  (hide spoiler)] because of this relentless idea was so terrible I might've felt a bit sick.
(hide spoiler)]A lot of the later part of this book is centered around the result of the hasty decisions the characters make in the moment that are set like cement so that they're caught in it ever after, fixed in place.
(hide spoiler)]I think where this book failed for me was to convince me that Manzhen and Shijun or Cuizhi and Shuhui were in love-- it felt like we were told they were in love, but it wasn't something I could ever believe in or feel invested in.
A book has to be powerful enough to be able to convey strong emotions and that's why I am rating two stars and not one.This is a tale of its own time.
And this book may reflect accurately its time.
Everything has to be a secret for some reason.But here is the worst thing: There is certain event in the middle of the book that is so fucked up and so out of place (in my opinion) that changes my view on the whole book.
But there is this event and the reaction of most characters, as if it was somehow justifiable, is disgusting.
