https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1231843.The_Raft
Three naval airmen from a downed plane spend over a month in an open raft upon the South Pacific Seas with no food, water or cover from the sun and live to tell the tale.
His descriptions of their journey are novel-worthy, making for one heck of a nail-biting read.Some of the details, like what they were doing and where it took place, had to be left sketchy because the war was still ongoing.
Heck, this even includes an encounter with natives, like it was some kind of fanciful 18th century adventure tall tale.
The perfect book to read while solidifying in subzero weather is The Raft by Robert Trumbull.
They had a rubber raft and little else because the plane sank so quickly.
"Imagine doubling up on a tiny mattress, with the strongest man you know striking the underside as hard as he could with a baseball bat, twice every three seconds, while someone else hurls buckets of cold salt water in your face." The raft also had a nasty tendency to overturn when waves got a little high, or the occupants moved incorrectly.
They were very hot during the day and cold at night.
I found this book as I was cleaning out a bookcase in my parents' home.
Mom belonged to the Book-of-the-Month Club during the WW II years, and this 1942 copy still has the review and synopsis by the Club News inside.
It is the true story of three US navy-men who took off from a carrier on a bombing mission, ran out of gas, and had to ditch in the ocean somewhere in the South Seas.
This is an adventure story that couldn't be invented, and one that will leave you amazed at the steadfastness of the human spirit!
I am always humbled by the sheer power of man's will to survive and ability to endure and overcome the most unforgiving situations and occurrences.
I add this little story to my list of some of the best true life sea survival stories I have read.
Would you be scared, would you be pessimistic, would you be amiable to your fellows, would you crack as the thirst dried you up from the inside and your body steadily devoured itself?
The sun baking you black as your clothes rotted off your body exposing every inch of you to the blazing equatorial heat.
Such is the power held in this true tale of survival.
The true story of 3 Navy men who survive 34 days in the Pacific with no food.
After seeing the movie (Against the Sun) based on this story, I was intrigued and decided to track down the real story.
It's an excellent movie, by the way - I highly recommend it.
Come to find out, the movie was pretty accurate (with the exception of a few things).Survival/endurance and WWII stories are my favorites, and this one is an absolutely incredible story.
I really enjoyed the style of writing and the way the author described the sea.
I'll just leave it at this: I highly recommend this read if you can find a copy of the book.
At first I wanted to compare this book to Unbroken, and it is similar. This book was written by the person that experienced the raft, not by a professional author so the style is pretty straightforward, nothing fancy. They suffered immensely. They went for days without food or fresh water, but all three men survived. What they suffered could have made them break down, want to harm one another, or simply give up, but they fought to stay alive and positive.
This is a fantastic true story about survival, I read this book a few years ago, and even got to see the real lifeboat in person at the National Museum of Naval Aviationin Pensacola, Fl while on vacation. They made a movie about it "Against The Sun" never seen that though. Give the story a chance, it's one you will never forget.
A true story about three men staying alive in a small sized raft. After the plane carrying them crashed at the pacific ocean. It is surprising to know how much human can withstand pain and hardship just to stay alive.
Great, quick read... enjoyed the narration and pace
An engaging true story of survival adrift on the open sea written in the blunt style of mid-twentieth century pulp fiction. Spoiler alert: around day twelve, bowel movements are discussed.
Reporter Robert Trumbull's book "The Raft" tells the story of Harold Dixon, Tony Pastula and George Aldrich.
Their survival is nothing short of a miracle.Told with sparse, short sentences, the book is not a literary masterpiece.
There are loads of better written survival stories out there, but not as many that are quite as miraculous.It is unfortunate that Trumbull's account relies only on an interview with Dixon for information.
The book would be much more fascinating if it included interviews with Aldrich and Pastula as well.
It's interesting that only Dixon was awarded the Navy Cross, while Aldrich and Pastula were simply commended by the Navy...
I didn't realize this was a re-release of a nonfiction book from the early 1940s when I picked it up at the library.
What an amazing story of survival!Wiki: Three downed U.S. Navy fliers from the USS Enterprise landed on Pukapuka in February 1942.[5] Harold Dixon, Gene Aldrich, and Tony Pastula survived 34 days on the open ocean in a tiny 4 by 8 foot (1.2 by 2.4 m) raft, beginning their odyssey with no food or water stores and very few tools.
Their story was told in the book The Raft by Robert Trumbull, published by Henry Holt and Co. in 1942.
I saw this book mentioned while viewing the actual raft at the NAS museum in Pensacola, FL.
It was as fascinating as I had expected, and was different enough from Unbroken, which i also read recently, to still keep my attention.
The only reason it lost a star is that the author gives away future facts in several places.
Additionally, the author necessarily writes with the sound and vocabulary of the 1940s, but he also presents himself as the smartest, most in touch with his psyche, best navigator, etc.
Great book, though, and I highly recommend it!
Another truly amazing survival story (yes, I've been on a bit of a survival kick lately).
A pilot and his two crew members crashed in the Pacific Ocean during WW II.
The only thing they managed to get from the plane before it sank, was a 4 X 8' raft.
They had no food, water, equipment, etc.
It was fascinating to see their resourcefulness in getting food, water, navigation, etc.
They eventually made it to an island where the natives helped them to regain their strength before they were able to contact their command.
As the senior soldier, Trumbull really showed amazing leadership and mental strength.
Another great story!
After reading The Raft, By Robert Trumbull, I leaned that this is a non-fiction book, told in first person point of view about three navy flyers named Gene Aldrich, Tony Pastula and Dixon, the leader with 24 years of navial exprience.
Dixon is the piolot of a plane that crashes into the Pacific Ocean.
The main storyline entails how Gene, Tony and Dixon survived 34 torching days with the scholdering heat and the shivering cold of night, on a 6 foot by 10 foot piercing yellow raft as bright as the sun.
Interesting story with a lot of parallels to another raft story, "Unbroken." But I found it an interesting read. The ingenuity and sailing skills of men who have nothing to work with, the challenges of surviving in the open ocean, and how the men dealt with the psychological stress, made it fascinating. In the end they were incredibly fortunate or else God had a plan. The other thought that haunts me is how many other US airmen and sailors perished in the Pacific because they were, in the end, expendable.
I have a passion for true stories of people who were lost at sea and survived. This one is about 3 navy aviators who survived 34 days in a small raft in early 1942. They got lost while on a routine mission and ditched in the ocean. They had little in the way of food and water. They were burned by the hot tropical sun every day. They caught and ate fish, coconuts that floated by in the water, a shark(!) and a bird. They drank animal blood and also learned to wring rainwater out of their clothes for drinking.
The Raft, by Robert Trumbull (pp 128), first Printed in 1942. This is the story of three naval aviators that crash landed in the Pacific during a reconnaissance patrol. They spent 34 days with little food and even less water drifting until they landed on an isolated small island and were nursed back to health by native families living there. Exact locations were withheld because of wartime considerations. Not great writing, but might be of interest to those who enjoy survival stories. This story was made into the movie Against The Sun, in 2014.
I read this book off my parent's bookshelf when I was 12. It was the first 'adult' non-fiction book I really read and it was gripping. I'll never forget how intense the experience was and how I totally related with those guys on the raft. I'll never forget it, because it took my love of reading to a whole 'new level'. (How cliche! sorrry, but it did.) When I read "Life of Pi" years later, I remembered this book.
Re-read this recently out loud to the kids on an RV vacation. I really enjoy this book. I love books from the WW2 era. The book details the journey of three US soldiers whose plane goes down in the South Pacific. They are left alone in the ocean with only a very small life raft, a few very basic items. The story details their fight to survive over multiple weeks adrift at sea through ingenuity and an unwillingness to give up.
A story of survival and ingenuity that kept these 3 men sane through 34 days adrift at sea. Their story shows how your mental and emotional condition is the most important thing that you bring to any situation. They did things that I would have a hard time doing having just got up from a good nights sleep and the breakfast table.
This is a very inspiring story about the endurance of three men who decided not to let shipwreck get them down. I was very impressed by their stamina and their sheer will and discipline to recover from every setback nature could throw at them. I think a lot of people would benefit from reading this book.
Definitely a great illustration of perseverance and ingenuity. a lot of take home points and lessons learned for any interested in water survival and SERE. Lastly, I've read as many books that come my way concerning survival and this story maintains the consistent theme of believing in a higher power and the power of prayer gives one strength.
A typical survival book (I love survival books) - fascinating to read, but not particularly good literature, but told in a very straightforward manner. The story is of three navy airmen who survive in the Pacific for 34 days with essentially no supplies or food or water. Their survival and the fact they finally find land is hard to imagine.
This is the true story of three Navy airmen whose plane crashed into the Pacific during WWII, and who were adrift in a very small raft for 34 days over 750 miles of ocean with little food or water.I first read this book as a very young teenager... it has always stayed with me a a tale of survival and determination.
Based upon the first person account of three servicemen whose plane went down in the Pacific during WWII. They managed to get out the rubber raft before their plane sank, taking all supplies with it. They survived on the not-so-calm waters of the Pacific for 34 days, near death, before they land on an inhabited atoll in the lonely Pacific.
Great book and true story occurred and was written in 1942. 3 guys take off from an airplane carrier and have to ditch their airplane. It's their amazing story of survival in a rubber raft. Good book that anyone in the family would enjoy. I'm checking out the book and giving it to my boys to read. I listened to the book on tape.
Originally released in 1942 and again in 1992. A easy read of three airman's survival in a rubber raft for thirty four days in the South Pacific. A story of personal survival, tools they used and successful outcome. The epilogue completes these three men's life story. Told in the first person of pilot Dixon. A good read.
I read this in high school and learned some things from Chief Dixon. I took those lessons into adulthood and used a few in Desert Storm and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Of course, I did not float adrift in a raft in the Iraqi desert. Still, Dixon's humble story of patience, faith, and perseverance inspired me almost 30 years after I read it.
