https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1061178.New_Introductory_Lectures_on_Psychoanalysis
محاضرات جديدة في التحليل النفسي ..... سيجموند فرويدسبع محاضرات أو دروس أو دراسات أو آراء أو تحليلات ألقاها فرويد على جمهور افتراضي، ناقش فيها العديد من القضايا.أسلوب فرويد بسيط ومنطقي ومنمق للغاية، وترجمة جورج طرابيشي ساعدت على إضفاء رونق خاص في أبهى صورها.العلم والغيب والدين والأنوثة والمرأة كلها قضايا طرحها وناقشها فرويد.المحاضرة الأخيرة بعنوان (حول تصور الكون) أهم وأقيّم ما في المحاضرات.24-12-2015
Freud is one of the most controverisal people ever to have lived, and many of his ideas cause a great deal of rage and hatered and other happy emotions.
Not all aspects of 'New Introductory Letters on Psychanalysis' are relevant; some couldn't be less irrelevent.
You also need to consider that this isn't the most interesting or provocitive psychology piece you'll ever read in the least bit.
Nonetheless, Freud's fleuncy is only rarely rivaled.
That chain-smoking coke-head could defintely come up with a well-written lecture, and this certainly does mean something, obviously.
From both the perspective of Freud and Darwin, this self-versus-social dynamic lies at the heart of what it means to be human.
(1)Energy runs throughout Freud’s individual-group dynamics and their id-superego structure.
(3) This is the energy of the id, which includes sexual and the other instincts, that places the individual at odds with social rules that regulate instinctual expression.
I’d argue that Darwin’s social instincts are also part of the id as the need to be part of a group is every bit equivalent to the hunger, sex, and desire that we typically associate with the id.
هي محاضرات أخيرة كتبها قبل وفاته بسبع أعوام، ولم يلقها قط، ولم يعمد لذلك أصلاً، بسبب تقدمه في السن و
وهو هنا على غير عادته لا يجازف بتقديم تفسير نفسي واضح لهذه الظواهرالمحاضرات 31 و32مراجعة وإضافات لنظريته في تركيب الشخصية ومكوناتها ووظائف هذه المكونات، ثم تعديل لنظريته في القلق والكبت والغرائز، وصلة القلق بالكبت وأيهما يؤدي إلى الآخرالمحاضرة 33خصصها فرويد لشرح نفسية المرأة من وجهة نظر التحليل النفسي، وتبدو هذه المحاضرة كوصف شامل ودقيق لنظريته حول التطور الجنسي للطفلة الإنثى - حيث أنه فيما سبق كان يركز دائما على تطور الولد وليس البنت - ويشرح بالتفصيل الفرق بين عقدة أوديب لدى الولد والبنت ومآلها لدى كل منهماالمحاضرة 34 تشمل موضوعات متفرقة، منها انتقاد لأتباع التحليل النفسي الذين استقلوا بأفكار ومدارس مغايرة عن مدرسته؛ وتنويه عن دور التحليل النفسي في إثراء العلوم الإنسانية، ودور التحليل النفسي المأمول في تربية الأطفالالمحاضرة الأخيرة 35وعنوانها "نظرة إلى الكون" حسب الترجمة العربية، وعنوانها الأصلي هوWeltanschauungوهي كلمة ألمانية يقول فرويد بنفسه أنه يصعب ترجمتها إلى أي لغة أخرى، حتى أن الترجمة الإنجليزية تحتفظ بهذه الكلمة كعنوان للمحاضرة ويمكن اعتبار هذه المحاضرة جزءا من مجموعة من الكتب والمؤلفات والمقالات والرسائل التي ألفها فرويد في النصف الأخير من حياته، والتي انشغل فيها بالحديث عن مشكلات الحضارة والإنسانية والثقافة والدين.
The definition of religion as stated by Freud is to the point, precise and hits the nail on head.
Based on my understanding of my religion, the god is considered to be a phase which does not give the satisfaction of fulfillment but more like a state where the satisfaction of thing does not account for the lot.
What Freud defines as ID, Ego and Super-ego is very similar to what Vedic scriptures define as Tamas, Rajas, and Sattva, the three states of mind.
Based on the Ego, that is rajas, an action or a reaction is initiated from a being that is either directed towards ID/ Tamas or Super-ego/ Sattva
يتناول فرويد فى هذه المحاضرات الجميلة أفكاره ونظرياته التى قدمها من قبل فى مجموعة من الكتب بشكل أكثر تفصيلا، مع إضافة بعض التعديلات الطفيفة، وكانت قراءتها بالنسبة لى مراجعة وتذكير بهذه الكتب مع فهم أنضج وأكثف، ومتعة أكبر وموضوعات الكتاب هى تلخيص لكتب: تفسير الأحلام، ثلاث مقالات فى نظرية الجنسية، الأنا والهو، وما فوق مبدأ اللذة.
وعبر صفحات الكتاب، يمازج أسلوب فرويد البلاغى الرحيب وأنفاسه الهادئة، نغمة اعتذار عن الحقائق الكئيبة التى انتهت إليها أبحاثه.
ومن بين الثقة التى تعبر بها عبقريته عن نفسها، هناك همسات متواضعة وإيحاء دائم بخطوات متلمسة فى الظلام ومتشبثة بآمال ضئيلة فى تحقيق أسطورة ما يُسمى ب"العلاج النفسى"!
This was a fairly basic collection of Freud's lectures. Overall, they are not as great as some of his other more momentous works. The conclusions that he gives are largely dated and most of the material relates directly back to some of his earlier work.Even though these are not the most impressive lectures he gives, and are dated, they still offer a glimpse into the inner processes of Freud himself. For that reason, they should not be ignored.3 stars.
I have my degree in clinical psychology, and I have no idea why we still study Freud. His ideas, views, and "science" is outdated and simply just wrong. Yeah, when he started his ideas were radical because society was sexually repressed, but it's not anymore. If we don't give people lobotomies or dunk them in ice cold water anymore, than why do we still recognize Freud as the "father of psychology". Don't like him or his theories.
even this is an old book and sigmund freud is already dead, i find it very interesting. it's the first book i'm reading about psycho analysis but i think there will follow others.. with this book he's giving me insight in a new subject and he explains it also with funny stories out of his life. it's fun to read and easy to understand
These lectures ostensibly continue those of the Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis, published fifteen years previously, and may therefore read consecutively for some idea of the progress of Freud's thinking. I myself read them while studying continental depth psychology at Union Theological Seminary in New York.
Değerli Dostlar,Psikanaliz ile ilgili okuduğum ilk kitap olduğundan pek yorum yapmak istemiyorum. Uzman arkadaşlarım lütfen dikkate almasınlar. Psikoloji-psikiyatri konularına ilgim olduğundan aldım okudum. Çok sıkıcı geldi ve bana pek bir şey katmadığını söyleyebilirim. Tek öğrendiğim şey, dil sürçmelerimizin altında bir takım psikolojik nedenler aramamız gerektiği idi. Saygılar.
Well I am taking a break from psychoanalysis for i don't know how long, used to be curious about how did person come out with such explanations!!! And the result is I am not a fan anymore.Though if u like observing ideas and people who come up with crazy ideas you might like this book for the sake of those i cant deny that this man is a genius but he didn't get it well enough.
It was a bit hard to understand at the beginning since it was the first thing I read about psychoanalysis, but if you are interested in the subject and keep researching while you are reading the book, it's not that hard to understand.
Useful for its peculiarities regarding Marxism and "Occult Psychology" (including first-hand accounts of telepathy and synchronicity) and particularly for an efficient overview of the id/ego/superego distinction. Otherwise, much of it has been said better elsewhere.
A necessary follow-up to the introductory lectures. His description of the id, ego and superego is just incredible.
Outstanding Freud
Freud is pretty good at articulating his abstract ideas. I just started this and am anxious about reading the dream interpretation chapters. I will keep you posted, Lindsey.
A fine writer this Freud. A rare discovery I made happening upon his work. Wikipedia him. I did. I found out he was a high-impact man, smoked cigars, sometimes just.
My high school physics teacher gave me this book as a graduation present. What a great guy.
