https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25362017-the-girl-with-seven-names
Thanks to everyone who voted in the 2015 #GoodreadsChoice Awards. Of course, I was hoping to win, but I'm still honored that I came in 4th place out of many good books. Wow!!! I never thought my memoir would make it to the FINAL round of the 2015 #GoodreadsChoice Award. Only ten books are left. Thank you so much to everyone who has read my book and supported me.  https://www.goodreads.com/choiceaward... A huge honor.  The Girl With Seven Names is nominated for a #GoodreadsChoice  Award for Best
Thanks to everyone who voted in the 2015 ‪#‎GoodreadsChoice‬ Awards.
Of course, I was hoping to win, but I'm still honored that I came in 4th place out of many good books.
I never thought my memoir would make it to the FINAL round of the 2015 ‪#‎GoodreadsChoice‬ Award.
Only ten books are left.
Thank you so much to everyone who has read my book and supported me.
‪ The Girl With Seven Names‬ is nominated for a ‪#‎GoodreadsChoice‬  Award for Best Memoir & Autobiography!
THANK YOU to all  incredible The Girl With Seven Names readers who made  this possible.
Full Disclosure: I am a South Korean and I have encountered with a number of readings, TED-talks, Youtube videos on life in North Korea, testimonies of North Korean defectors on horrific lives in our neighbor country.
With more candor than emotion, she tells how she found the new world with freedom was also a world full of challenges and hardships, and how she navigated them to find her way through and found her identity as herself.
This book is also unique in a way it tells N.
Koreans life in free countries can be challenging and not as rosy as many may simply imagine.
By the time she turned 29, Hyeonseo Lee had spent a decade living on the run and in hiding.
She was attacked on the street, robbed, conned, and arrested more than once.She is one of the lucky ones.Hyeonseo Lee was born in North Korea under a different name, to a family with good songbun (NK's caste system).
But even being one of the lucky ones in North Korea means that Lee witnessed her first public execution at seven years old.
In many ways, Lee's life in China is as arduous as her life in North Korea.

You had 2 years to think about it and relied on the kindness of distant relatives to support you, but you didn't think ahead of what to do next??She seemed really naive in general, especially when she constantly turned to brokers for help, even though she clearly says again and again she didn't trust them.
She was incredibly lucky and fortunate to have people around her who had a lot of money to constantly bail her out and those connections clearly helped her.Also the fact that she didn't even know at first that people were starving in the 90s in N.
If you're like me and haven't read much about past and present living conditions in Northern Korea , you'll learn a lot here.This simply written book follows the courageous journey of a 17 year old girl who will need to change her name seven times after she defects from North Korea and reinvents her life both in China and later South Korea.
Written to read like a novel, it will certainly give you a greater appreciation of the freedoms we often take for granted, while not weighing you down with more than the required detail about the atrocities others are facing daily.
Certain parts of the story agree with what I’d learned already about the lives of North Koreans, the general trend of their escapes, and their orientation in South Korea as refugees.
The period in this book covers approximately 2000-2012, a period when Hyeonseo Lee spent ten years in China working then flew to South Korea to request asylum.Her own path to freedom was relatively smooth; she’d learned to be wary of revealing much about herself from childhood and was not easily deceived.
She lived in China ten years.I don’t want to spoil the adventure for those who aren’t familiar with her story, but it is a doozy.
This was definitely the best autobiography I've read to date. Hyeonseo is a brave exceptional woman who has been through hell and back. The loyalty and love she has for her family was so lovely to read. I can't even form a proper review- no review will describe how much I loved reading this book!
The Girl with Seven Names: Escape From North Korea by Hyeonseo Lee is what reading is all about for me.
Hyonseo Lee's memoir tells of the complete ideological indoctrination of the North Korean people.
She detailed the way the brainwashing begins from the time of their birth and never lets up, the violence and fear of repercussions for the people, and the importance of restricting outside information describing it this way: "...in truth there is no dividing line between cruel leaders and oppressed citizens.
They use the fear flowing from the top to win some advantage, or to survive." At the age of 17 Hyeonseo escaped North Korea but her battle did not end there.
This is the first time I read a North Korean defector's story.I had read about the oppressive regime but the book is an eye opener of all sorts.Though written like a thriller novel,the book tells a lot of suffering that the North Koreans go through in their perilous journey during their defection.The treatment of these defectors in China is a matter of concern for the international community.The book deserves 4 stars ...1 deduction for too much propaganda material in the beginning and sensationalising the second and third part.But it was a goodread.
I wasn't surprised that both her mother and brother longed to return to the North because adapting to life in Seoul presented a tremendous and negative cultural shock.
While it is impossible for me to imagine what daily life would be like in the North Korean regime, I can imagine that adapting to a polar opposite way of living in the day-to-day - full of unknowns and experiences so uncommon (such as using an ATM) - might make me wish to return to the the devil I knew.
I gave this book 4.5 stars because I wanted to read more about the family's struggles adapting to life in Seoul.
What North Koreans are going through to become free is so tragic."An extraordinary insight into life under one of the world’s most ruthless and secretive dictatorships – and the story of one woman’s terrifying struggle to avoid capture/repatriation and guide her family to freedom.As a child growing up in North Korea, Hyeonseo Lee was one of millions trapped by a secretive and brutal totalitarian regime.
Twelve years and two lifetimes later, she would return to the North Korean border in a daring mission to spirit her mother and brother to South Korea, on one of the most arduous, costly and dangerous journeys imaginable."
Being an American, I knew a little about the hardships in North Korea, as well as how crazy Kim Jong-Il was (& now Kim Jong-Un). But reading this memoir of a North Korean defector's account just floored me. It definitely opened my eyes
An exceptionally illuminating book into life inside North Korea, and the risks in escaping it, from a brave and talented young woman
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. Country: North KoreaThis is the second book that I have read, which tells the stories of North Korean defectors, the first being  Nothing to Envy. I debated with myself whether I need another book for my book world trip, but what set my mind was the idea, that while Nothing to Envy is a story told through a "middle man", The Girl with Seven Names is an autobiography. Ultimately, now I can say that the difference between the two books is mostly in the wa
While this is mentioned in Lee's narrative, she talks about it more in retrospect, as when certain political and historical situations were unfolding, she was oblivious to the facts, having been indoctrinated in the North Korean values.For me, The Girl with Seven Names was a very valuable and interesting look into North Korea, and especially the way the people there view the world.
So in many ways, the book was both very alien and unimaginable, but also very familiar, and close to home.The fact which saddened my while reading both The Girl with Seven Names, and Nothing to Envy, is how North Koreans are treated while trying to defect.
The thing is, if you were born of a higher social caste, like the author's family, life wasn't all that bad so long as you played the game, watched your every word, and didn't mind living under the constant threat of arrest and public execution.
We might like to think that a person trapped within the borders of North Korea would be ecstatic to escape to a land of greater opportunity, but the challenges, and adjustments, are huge.
To get a glimpse into one of the most secretive and oppressive countries in the world was incredibly valuable, and the experiences Lee recounts after her escape are incredible.
When she made her escape at 17, Lee was just hoping to spend a couple days in China before coming back home, afraid that if she waited until she was 18, the punishment if she were caught would be a lot harsher.
Suddenly, all Lee had in the world were the clothes on her back, and she had to learn how to survive in a country that would instantly deport her if they knew where she was from.
This is the third book that I’ve read about North Korea.
I could barely put this book down.
It’s beautifully written, so moving, the type of book that you can’t stop thinking about.
Notice the framed pictures of the leaders inside this North Korean home.
When couples get married, they’re given framed pictures with a specific cloth that must be used only for those pictures.
The pictures have to be placed at the highest spot in the home and cleaned regularly.
Some quotes that I thought are worth sharing:“Kindness toward strangers is rare in North Korea.
North Korea memoirs are always difficult.
The stories of escape aren't yet so common as to be mundane (though perhaps we should hope for the day they are) but they're difficult to put into great prose.Hyeonseo Lee tells of a remarkable upbringing in that reclusive country, although in her border town people seem to cross into China and back with surprising ease.
Her escape story and life in China testifies to her grit and intelligence.
And she's certainly written a compulsive page turner.But we're just waiting for that great North Korean memoir.
Excellent and much different than Escape from Camp 14 and other books which involved life in the prison camps. The author lived what many would have considered a fairly normal life in a North Korea border town with China. This story gives a picture of average life in North Korea, life for defectors in China, and life struggling with their new identity. Her family adds much drama to the story as well. A very good read to get a different perspective and to learn from Hyeonseo's incredible story.
راجب فرار دختري از كره شمالي از خانواده نقريبا ثروتمندي هستش،زندگي در چين و اينكه چطوري به كره جنوبي رسيده و زندگي شخصي و عاشقانه اش و اينكه چطوري به خونوادش كمك كرده از كره جنوبي فرار كنن هستشدر كل اطلاعات زيادي راجب كره شمالي بدست نمياريد بيشتر راجب بحث پناهندگي و اينكه چطوري رسيدن به كره جنوبي هستشولي در كل كتاب خوبيه
The Girl with Seven Names is a powerful, fascinating true story about a young girl who manages to escape from North Korea. She gives a very honest view of living in North Korea and her escape and later helping her mother and brother escape. I found myself feeling all the pain, the struggles and the fear that Hyeonsea felt. It also reveals the difficulties, for young and old to assimilate into a new culture. This is an intriguing account of an amazing young women.
She left North Korea unbrutalised by famine, torture or deep personal tragedy.
(hide spoiler)]I think most readers who've grown up in countries where we can travel freely, and where young people take time off for OE's and gap years can identify well with Ms Lee. Deep down, she's like us.
She's definitely inspiring!Unfortunately, with the other kind of defector story, the sheer brutality and torture described is often so unpleasant, that the reader will start to disassociate emotionally.
Escape from Camp 14)I think this book is important because it raises awareness of the plight of North Koreans in an inspiring way.
The story of Hyeonseo and her family's escape from North Korea is fascinating and moving.
But what really sets this book apart for me is the nuance - the fact that life is as difficult for a North Korean defector in China or South Korea as it is to remain in North Korea.
Even with all of that, though, what struck me is that Hyeonseo's family was actually reasonably well-off and happy.
Not every North Korean experiences this privilege, of course, but it casts the struggles in China and South Korea in a very different light.
It was the story about woman who leave her country to satisfy her curiosity of the world.
She can't go back because her country has a strict regulation that the people who leave will get a punishment when they go back.
So she must take her own path in a new world live as an illegal settler and hide her identity as a North Korea citizen.
She never know that it tooks a long way to finally meet with her family again.Hyeonseo Lee tells a lot about North Korea in this book.
North Korea is a mysterious country that blocks out all foreign powers to strengthen its own dictatorship.
This story gives insight into North Koreans' every day lives and the grueling process of escaping the hunger, the brutality, and the control.
Pretty much everyone in the modern day world knows North Korea is ruled by a tyrant who doesn't feed or take care of his people, so when they finally manage to escape, we're just going to ship them back?
I'm happy that Hyeonseo managed to escape North Korea.
But it kills me knowing there is still a whole country full of people suffering from the Kims.
While many of the stories heard were centered on experiences of migrating from Central, South and Latin America, I still had a certain knowledge base of the political structure in those countries.
Ms. Lee's story of a North Korean girl and her family and their defection, tells a tale of their hardships while escaping a controlling regime.
It gives the reader background knowledge and understanding of the Korean people and their indoctrination from early onset, as well as the emotional turmoil in making the decision to defect.
This book reads like fiction - it grabs you immediately and doesn't let go.
If you want to remember how wonderful it is to live in our free America, just read this.
You will say thank you every page that you are here and not there!
This young girl is so very, very brave - I found myself cheering her on as though she were my own flesh and blood.
This is the second book I have read about escaping from this abysmal country (North Korea) -- everyone should read at least one!
It is hard to believe a country like this still exists.
A must read book.
Sehr beeindruckend und erschütternd. Da werden die eigenen Probleme plötzlich ganz, ganz klein.
But then, a jaded reader like me can often sense where the plot of a novel will go, but in real life, anything can happen.Hyeonseo Lee was born in North Korea, and the first third of this book traces her parents’ love story and her childhood in the world’s most isolated country.
This is the beginning of an epic journey for Lee and her mother and brother, through China, Laos and finally South Korea.I think of this book as an adventure story, even though the second 2/3 of the book span more than a decade, because it turns out there are few safe places for North Korean defectors.
