https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50849.Expanded_Universe

HeinleinLife-Line • [Future History] • (1939) • short story by Robert A.
HeinleinSuccessful Operation • (1940) • short story by Robert A.
HeinleinBlowups Happen • [Future History] • (1940) • novelette by Robert A.
HeinleinA Bathroom of Her Own • (1980) • short story by Robert A.
HeinleinOn the Slopes of Vesuvius • (1980) • short story by Robert A.
HeinleinCliff and the Calories • (1980) • short story by Robert A.
Heinlein"Pravda" Means "Truth" • (1960) • essay by Robert A.
HeinleinSearchlight • [Future History] • (1962) • short story by Robert A.
Lots of fun miscellaneous writings from Heinlein, from a cabaret detective story to a boy scout lunar tale.
There's quite a bit of nonfiction, mostly relating to nuclear power, nuclear armaments, patriotism, the armed forces, Russia, and the Cold War. A couple of essays detail the encounter with "pravda" ("truth") that Mr. and Mrs. Heinlein experienced in their trip to the Soviet Union in 1960.
There are many prognostications, ranging from alarmingly accurate to quaint in showing their age.
It's probably the biggest hodgepodge of an anthology I've ever read, but there's more than enough good stuff to keep it entertaining.
Short stories and essays presented chronologically. A couple of short stories are hard to find elsewhere, but the best ones can be found in other volumes. The book is filled out with Heinlein's essays, which seem to get more and more out of touch as both he and the twentieth century age.
I just realized the irony of deciding to stop reading this on Memorial Day, given all of the pro-military jingoism on display in many of Heinlein's essays.
I swear it wasn't intentional -- I just coincidentally figured out today that about half of these 500+ pages were ideologically conservative non-fiction instead of the sci-fi short stories I was expecting.
Consider it my Memorial Day observance, to refuse to read paranoid propaganda that, if ever implemented, would lead to the senseless loss of millions more soldiers' lives.
Of all the Heinlein I have read, this was by far his weakest collection, and one of the worst books I've read. I'm so glad it was free, because if I'd paid even 10 cents for this book, I'd want my money back.
Mainly nonfiction and fairly uninteresting short stories.
I never realized how much of a pro military pro police state neoconservative heinlein was.since the bulk of this book came from 5 hat perspective I found it quite unpleasant.
I really liked the last part of the final essay, where he briefly switches to fiction and gas a president solve all the pathetic problems of the usa in just a few years with a radically common sense approach.
Ended the book on a good high note.
Heimlein can be a good writer after all.
Unfortunately this book is proof that he doesn't have to be.
W Rating : BThis was a fun book. This was Heinlein's Rivan Codex. Many non sci fi stories and papers Heinlein has written with his own personal comments throughout. Read if you like Heinlein and/or getting author jokes.
Great collection of early stories and articles and commentaries on them. Shows the development of Heinlein as a writer.
Although I do not usually read short stories, I will make an exception for Heinlein, now and then.
It's a barrel-scraping exercise. Some of it is interesting; other items, not so much.
This short story compilation includes a mix of fiction and nonfiction.
Most of it is really outdated, especially the warnings and prophecies that didn't come true.
Heinlein was scared to death of atomic weapons and he repeatedly tried to warn the public about the high likelihood of a nuclear apocalypse.
It's too bad Heinlein didn't live another couple of decades because then he could have witnessed what we see today: Instead of dreading the end of the world, most people seem to be looking forward to the apocalypse, and we wish it would happen sooner than later.
I was expecting a collection of his fiction stories only to find several (the last third of the book) to be non-fiction essays written in response to the conditions of the day.
As these are all old news and not of particular interest to me so I skimmed.
The fiction stories were good as long as you remembered the era in which they were written.
I find that I prefer his full length novels to his short stories.
I guess I just like a "meatier" story.
I have many of the stories in other compilations so shall pass this back to the book sale folks.
50/100 Можна сказати що мене трусило від фразочок цитую дослівно "Аллан, загони баб в угол, чтобы под ногами не путались!", "в Аллане заговорил здравый смысл, -"бабам показывать не стоит, напугаются дуры"", а те як круті мужики вибирають собі самиць, і дають їм імена, або і не дають..не можу я таке сприймати і закривати очі. Мені все враження про книжку ця твердолобість зіпсувала!
The Heinlein tome! Some really great stories in here. I enjoyed the forewords and afterwords, which gave great insight into the mind of Heinlein. His opinions on education are well-founded, but a bit misguided.
Like Time Enough for Love, I gathered many quotes from this book. It cemented for me that Heinlein was more futurist than science-fiction author, simply a futurist whose outlet was fictional more than directly predictional.
It is interesting that in the last story of this book, Robert Heinlein writes about the great American culture and about a black woman president who tears down the fence between the USA and Mexico. How extremely disappointed he would have been to see who you actually elected and what he has done.
Considered Heinlein's greatest compendium. Spanning 1939-1980. Took me a month to go through the 600 pages.
When it stuck to SF, this was a good collection, but, alas, Heinlein felt he needed to insert non-fiction segments.
This was put together in the late 19th from stories written in the late 19th and early 10 plus a few essays. Quite dated
The book is a bit dated. However, it gives good insight into the thinking about the A-bomb just after WWII.
Not great literature, but it is pure unadulterated Heinlein.
This time around things are different.I've read some of the previous reviews of this work, and am frankly disappointed that people who claim to be Heinlein fans, to appreciate Heinlein, would be turned off by this collection.
He often made very little attempt to veil the personal philosophy and politics he put into his works, so it strikes me that any "Heinlein fan" who is turned off by this collection isn't, actually, a Heinlein fan as much as a fan of a good story (not that there is anything wrong with that...
Most of the pieces in here are essays, and they're full of such aggravation that I could read them forever.
He was very progressive for his time, so it's interesting to read something from him that wasn't his usual Trojan horse into his readers minds.
In these pieces, he flat-out speaks his mind, and it's an amazing thing to behold.
Even when I don't agree, it's still fun to read.
There are only two problems I have with this book: 1.
This bloats the book out a bit too much.
We can read his short fiction practically anywhere, but his non-fiction pieces?
Heinlein at one point says that, "Unless you were already adult in August 1945 it is almost impossible for me to convey emotionally to you how most people felt about the A-bomb, how many different ways they felt about it, how nearly totally ignorant 99.9% of our citizens were on the subject.” Nuclear war and its aftermath is a theme that takes up almost the entire first half of this book which is organized chronologically from his first published story from 1939, “Life-Line,” up to the date of publication in 1980.
As I recall, only the initial tale, "Universe" is any good, but it is a must-read for all those interested in the possibility of interstellar travel.
Asimov thought we couldn't do it.
Clarke came to believe that rapid interstellar travel remained a fantasy.
Bradbury seemed not interested in the phenomenon.
But "Universe" is the extrapolation of a desperate measure: the generation starship.
Since this novella's publication, dozens of tales have taken up the idea.
None I have read have improved upon it.
The Proxima Centauri Starship, whose voyagers......well, just read it.
Expanded Universe is a collection of short stories and other publications.
Some of the shorts have been published in other collections.
He writes a lot about Atomics and what-if scenarios for a WWIII situation.
Most of these publications were written after WWII when Hiroshima was still on a lot of peoples minds.
The two articles I believe are must reads are "Where To?" and "Who are the Heirs of Patrick Henry?" (including the afterword).
The two other articles I would also recommend for nerdy Sci-Fi types are "Ray Guns and Rocket Ships" and "Larger Than Life." None of these four pieces are fiction.
Robert Heilnlein must've been a curmudgeonly old fart from the day he was born.
A grandmaster of SF and a founding father of the genre, Heinlein loved to hear himself pontificate on the state of the country and the ills of society.
His views on voting ( voting is not a right but a privelege that should be earned ) are particularly worrisome.
Heinlein earned his place in the pantheon of great SF writers and this collection offers one more glimpse into the stories that raised him to that high estate.Definitely worth the read for those interested in the early years of science fiction.
Interesting look back to see how RAH's outlook changed and didn't change over the years. Fascinating description of a Soviet trip. Some of the stories I already read in "The Past Through Tomorrow" . And a story about a black woman nominated to be eye candy for a presidential candidate, who wins. After the president is killed in the first 10 days of office, she takes over, to the chagrin of the "machine", and turns Washington DC upside down - and reinstates the gold standard. You could see this happening today.
This is a fun book that expands greatly on Heinlein as a writer. Most only know him for Stranger in a Strange Land and/or Starship Troopers, but the Expanded Universe shows him as writing in many more genres and being as much of a progressive (though possibly less of an activist) as Orwell. I enjoyed his fiction much more than his (as we know now, post-Cold War) paranoid rantings about the impending destruction of the US by nuclear holocaust, but to see his dire warnings give an interesting perspective to the post-WWII Cold War era.
