https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1197129.The_Pride_of_Chanur
Add that to the fact we're reading this entire novel from a lion-like humanoid, it seems like it could be a winner, right?Well, yeah, I suppose it could be...
assuming Cherryh hadn't completely outdone herself with Foreigner.
:) Or the fact that there were a few weak aspects of the Hani worldbuilding, or Captain Pyanfar herself and her choices...
It should be mentioned that it connects with the rest of Cherryh's expanded universe, as well.I just wish I had connected more with the characters!
In this first volume of the Chanur saga we follow the exploits of a crew of Hani (lion-like aliens) on the eponymous merchant space freighter The Pride of Chanur.
Added to this fragile structure are aliens of an even more strange make-up: several species of methane breathers whose biology and mind-set are a mystery even to those with whom they share space, but who barely manage to co-exist with the others.All that is needed to throw the entire political structure of the Compact off-balance is one secret advantage that can be exploited by one member race at the expense of the others.
I reread this book every so often and though I still find points that are a little confusing, I never feel anything but thrilled with Pyanfar Chanur and Haral and Hilfy and the other very capable women who crew the Pride.
Up till then, Pyanfar had been fairly content with the way hani females and males worked together.Though this novel wraps up its action, it does set up a much bigger and more dangerous set of political situations across Compact space, which is actually in the same universe as Cherryh's Alliance-Union stories.
It feels a bit dated now, over 35 years after first publication, particularly in the lack of ubiquitous computing and communications access, but even so the series remains an absolute classic of space opera.The rich characterization of each of the alien species and the characters are typical of Cherryh's books, as is the almost claustrophobic closeness of the intense third person narrative from Pyanfar's point of view.
Many of the criticisms that her fellow hani and bystander aliens are completely valid, but Pyanfar goes to a lot of trouble to do the right thing despite there being are far easier and much less moral way of resolving the situation.Two final points: The Pride of Chanur is full of a defining feature I find in nearly all of Cherryh's writing.
So, The Pride of Chanur is my second attempt at a Cherryh book.
I appreciate her talent but I just can not seem to tune into her wavelength.The Pride of Chanur starts off well with an intriguing premise and clever narrative from an alien point of view.
The protagonist Pyanfar Chanur (not the human character) is quite well developed and I like her well enough (the ladies are in charge in the hani culture), the other supporting characters did not come alive for me, perhaps because the narrative is strictly from Pyanfar’s point of view and there is not much dialogue from the supporting characters to get a feel of their personality.

I liked this series!
An all-female crew of cat people finds a poor lost human male.
Nobody in this part of space has ever encountered a human being before, so the crew take pity on the poor creature.
I mean, you can't let a male out of the ship!
I found myself chuckling at the sexism exhibited by the female protagonists.
We men have populated plenty of books with a token, beautiful female.
This book is not for those without a sense of humor.
To top it off, there is a good story with plenty of space opera action.
I did like it, although it took a while to warm up to Pyanfar, Tully and the crew of the Pride of Chanur.
The pidgin was confusing at times.That is really where Cherryh seems to shine--world building, a great way of creating a "feel" for other societies and how they tick.
Even in Foreigner, which I found boring for very long stretches, her society and world building stuck with me the most.
I will definitely read more of Pyanfar's adventures.P.S: Is it weird that in my head the Kif sound like Benedict Cumberbatch as Smaug?3-4 stars, not quite decided yet.
This novel felt rather different, although at the base of it, politics, diplomacy, economics and linguistics are still very much at the fore.
However their treatment is changed.The crew of the space freighter Pride of Chanur find a stowaway on their ship, a weird creature seeking refuge from the aggressive Kif, who captured and tortured him in order to get valuable information.
Distrusting the Kif, she decides to help the sentient stranger and evades their manipulations.
This novel has plenty of action, jumping from one scene to the next with hardly a moment to breathe.
La historia comienza con la nave de Pyanfar en la estación espacial Punto de Encuentro, mientras los kif, una raza agresiva y ladrona, andan inquietos; parece que por la estación anda suelta una extraña criatura.
Los problemas empiezan cuando esta criatura, de la que no tardamos en saber que es un humano, se cuela de polizón en la nave de Pyanfar.‘El Orgullo de Chanur’ (The Pride of Chanur, 1981), de la escritora norteamericana C.J. Cherryh, es el inicio de una de las sagas space opera más reconocidas.
Mada sam ovo pročitao 1988 u izdanju Mladosti na upis me potaklo svježe izdanje Algoritma, posebice jer vidim da su namjerili izdati i ostale iz serije.Kako se radi o vrhunskoj space-operi preporuka svim SF-ljupcima.Jedna od rjeđih knjiga gdje se Zemljani nađu kao slučajni "alieni" u tuđem, izuzetno fascinantnom svijetu.Za ostatak prikaza posuđujem riječi kolege:------------------Fascinantno je ono što je u stanju smisliti ženski mozak.Ako ste čitali Bujoldicinog Milesa vidjeli ste hrpu raznih civilizacija no ono što je smislilaC.J.Cherryh je daleko luđe.Labava trgovačka zajednica nazvana Kompakt sa hrpom neobičnih vrsta sposobnih za svemirske letove.Zajednička trgovačka postaja - Sastajalište - pod dvojnom upravom.
Just as in lion society, where the females do most of the hunting for the pride, the females of Chanur are sent out to do the important job of trading and bringing home the spoils.
Male lions are valuable to lion society as the defenders of territory and cubs, holding land to enable the lionesses to hunt without hazard, both on the savannah and on Anuurn, the Chanur’s home planet.
I liked a lot of things about this, but I found the prose muddled and unsatisfying, as I sometimes do with Cherryh.
A crew of feline-ish beings rescues a human refugee, who’s just escaped from being kidnapped and tortured by a villainous race of beings who are eager to be the first to take advantage of humankind, a previously unknown species.This has multiple spacefaring civilizations interacting with each other, some of which (the methane breathers) are completely incomprehensible to the rest.
The linguistic bits were very well done, as usual with Cherryh.I liked this enough to read straight through the next couple of books, but I had the same problem with the prose.
An old favorite. Cherryh has an amazing ability to craft cultures that are both believable and completely alien. It's fun to get inside the head of the cat-like hani, because they don't think like a human, but nevertheless finds themselves having to deal with one. That outsider's view of our species is a refreshing twist. The other races are unique and fascinating in their own rights, even though I have a perverse soft spot for the cold-blooded kif. More than enough alien psychology, Machiavellian politics, and culture shock to keep things interesting.
The language is quite stilted and the story is sometimes hard to follow.
we have alien races and names that are very hard to pronounce and separate.
I did really like Pyanfur and I really appreciated her concern for her crew, her race, and her word.
Even with all that, I kept reading and enjoyed the plot of the story - yes, even with the things that made it hard for me to follow.
I also think the names and descriptions and what not are a function of the times.
My favourite thing in the entire book might be the one communiqué you see from the t'ca, because it really just bowled me over with how creative it was, and how alienating and different from humanity.A cool thing, though: most of the characters are women; all of the hani ships are crewed by females, because men are too quarrelsome and unreliable to go into space.
I love this streak of feminism in Cherryh's writing.idk, I'll give it one more shot in the hopes that maybe Tully and the hani will be able to exchange proper dialogue by the next book, and perhaps that'll make me care about them all more.
Zgodna space opera s dosta feminizma. Odmor za mozak. Problem je pun kufer imena i likova koji samo prolaze kroz roman pa se čovjek pogubi. Ima i minusa u vidu ne baš razrađene fabule, a i nema baš ni neke poruke pa koketira s zanimljivim space pulpom - dakle avantura i pucačina. Dosta nejasnih stvari oko važnosti ljudi tj. čovjeka oko kojeg se radnja vrti... mislim da bi radnja funkcionirala bez problema i bez njaga(da su ukrali bilo što, a ne Stranca). VEselim se prijevodu knjiga iz ostalog serijala jer ponekad volim pročitati baš ovako nešto...
The best ever human as alien book. Ms. Cherryh is the master of making me believe a human is the alien. Love the series but this one is comfort food for me and I reread it all the time. I also recommend it to readers at the bookstore where I work as the best introduction to Ms. Cherryh's work.
The Chanur at first are like WTF is IT, because none of the other species has EVER seen a human.
If I had been reading the book, I would have abandoned it without finishing it.Also, because of all the different languages, while docked on a space station, everyone wears these translation boxes and it translates as staccato half sentences that make things annoying and hard to understand (think "me Tarzan, you Jane).
If it were a ship of humans that encountered some unknown species, would we/they have noticed it was a sentient being before killing it.
3/5; 3 stars; BAudible had a pretty good sale on this month so I picked up several books I've been meaning to read for awhile and this was one of them.
I actually have quite a few books by this author inherited from my sister's library but I thought I'd start with this one on audio.
Dina Pearlman was the narrator and she did a good job.
She has a very businesslike style of speaking which was well suited to a science fiction book of this nature.
The story itself was entertaining and I can see myself reading more in this series.
I last read this when it was released by SFBC about 1985. It is classic Cherryh, a master at alien-human and alien-alien interactions. The detail in this series foretells that of the larger Foreigner series, her massive and still progressing effort. All of these novels are timeless and are a relief from the masses of dystopic Sci-Fi infesting the bookshelves today. These remain modern Space Opera at its best.A solid 8 of 10 stars
The concept here--of human as alien, and as a secondary character--is fantastic, but not always fully realized: hani, the protagonist alien society, is insufficiently weird, insufficiently non-human; but other alien species are weirder, which is more intriguing and also convincing, and the approach to interspecies interactions, via cultural frameworks and linguistics, is a compelling addition to the space opera subgenre.
Cherryh has yet to disappoint me and this is no exception; I wasn't blown away, the ending action is a bit much, but the premise and sociological focus is thoughtful.
As written in other reviews, Cherryh tends to dump the reader into a situation at which point it's sink or swim.
Cherryh takes care to not unnecessarily throw in human references and, instead, allows the reader to suss out what a particular item or term is.
It is by this interaction with the reader that one is pulled into the story instead of simply sitting idly by waiting for the "next big thing".This is my second time through this series and, even though I know what is going to happen next, I find myself nonetheless anxious to turn the page and keep the story going.
3 stars.The quality of the recording wasn't the best and I'm not sure about the narrator either. The story is actually quite interesting as it's about a cat-like bi-pedal matriarchal trading ship captain rescuing a human escaping from slavers. She recognised that the human is sentient and risked her own crew to rescue him, knowing the dire consequences. There's quite a bit of interesting world-building that was difficult to grasp because of the quality of the recording and the narration. I'm going to attempt to try again with the more recent offering from Brilliance Audio.
3.5 stars
Tully, a human, is taken prisoner by the kif, a dangerous alien race.
He escapes on a station, and Pyanfur of the hani (cat/lion-like alien race), takes him in on her ship, The Pride of Chanur, to defend him.This action starts a lot of trouble for Pyanfur and her crew, and they immediately leave the station and escape into space.
Tully is completely out of his element and is essentially taken along for the ride.Although the story takes place in the same universe as the Alliance-Union books, it's in another part of space.
Humans do not predominate in this book but rather are the "Outsiders." Pyanfar is the captain of the Pride of Chanur, a space ship that travels to do trade with other members of the Compact, a confederation of six worlds scattered across space.
The Hani have beards, manes, and claws - both the men and the women - but only the Hani women are allowed on Hani star ships.
On this trip, Pyanfar has 4 well-trained crew and her niece Hilgy, who grows up quickly.The outsider's name is Tully.
A number of fascinating new worlds make there appearance in this book.
When I was not reading the book, I could not stop thinking about it, I felt like I was part of the story, part of the Pride's (the spaceship) crew.
For me, a flowing, easy to read style is of the upmost importance and literally necessary to my enjoyment of a book, hence the 3 stars rating.
now that I think of it, maybe the fact that Ms. Cherryh style required so much attention and effort out of me, is the reason why I felt so taken by the story.
The other species were very interesting - lots of variety and an attempt to move away from human-like aliens.
I like the translator-making kit.
The computer then takes the dictionary and starts making a translation program.
Very nifty.I feel this book fails in execution though.
Apparently the actions the main characters take in recusing the human put them all a great risk.
However, so much of the book takes place in the main characters head that I didn't really feel that.
Instead of feeling the tension of the story and being interested in what happens I grew bored and stopped reading.
The alien, a human named Tully, is the first of his kind to visit The Compact, an economic alliance of six races, and the last survivor of his ship.
When Pyanfar decides to offer the human shelter it sets off a chain reaction of physical danger and political intrigue as the kif go on a killing spree and a rival house on her home world moves against one of her husbands.'The Pride of Chanur' is the fist novel of The Compact, a five book series chronicling the adventurous lives of Pyanfar, her niece Hilfy, the human Tully and the Chanur clan.
