https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154091.Mona_Lisa_Overdrive
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Gibsonesque State: "Mona Lisa Overdrive" by William GibsonIs there a Monalisa Overdrive future in the works?
The other biggest practical stumbling block are all those who just can't help but get ahead of themselves - or perhaps panic at what they see as the emergent imminent apocalyptic Gibsonesque state and use this as a justification for taking extreme attitudes towards people who don't agree with them, but when we do this, it's just an expression of weakness and lack of confidence in our own ideas.
The best of Gibson’s three ’Sprawl’ novels. Dark laughter, cold beauty, hyperlight.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my FINISHING THE SERIES! list.I loves me a good series! But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go...A quick look back:I said in my review of Count
But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go...A quick look back:I said in my review of Count Zero that it wasn't "a direct sequel - it doesn't pick-up the same characters - but it's set in the same world, orbiting the same scene, with some common threads." 
. We're re-united with key characters from both Neuromancer and Count Zero, plus a few fresh faces, then treated to a ranging tour though Gibson's seedy world of cyberpunk espionage.
I knew it was good because I was anxious and worried about the characters and what would happen to them.I'm telling you, nothing makes my heart sick with worry and aching pain than reading about a whore.
This is what's missing from a lot of books, the extra sauce that gets you a five-star rating from me.Another thing I liked about this book was that Gibson brings back characters from Books 1 and 2 - characters you thought had dropped off the face of the earth - and you are so glad to see them again and find out what happened to them.Now, Gibson's not a pretty, happy, everything-is-wonderful writer.
What began in the epochal Neuromancer, the Sprawl – that confluence of all the major urban centers on the United States east coast, from Boston to Atlanta – is a setting that provides Gibson’s able mind and extraordinary talent to describe for us a dystopian cyberpunk landscape that has influenced SF writing ever since.In this novel we see a return of Molly Millions (though she is semi-retired and operating under a different alias) and a seamy tangle of interests involving organized crime, near future state of the market tech, drugs and biotech, corporate espionage, capitalistic anarchy and all rolled up in the neo-noir setting that has become Gibson’s trademark.And his exceptional writing.“The world hadn’t ever had so many moving parts or so few labels.”“This was nothing like Tokyo, where the past, all that remained of it, was nurtured with a nervous care.
One of the later books of Gibson that I read. It left me with the fundamental idea of warring corporations and states on the wane that still lives with me now.
I did appreciate how diligent Gibson is in building strong female characters.
It appears as natural to him as writing about fabric or fashion.Gibson weaves these various plots and characters together and it all only frays a bit toward the end.
But still I know when Gibson writes another book, I'll get sucked back in because the Matrix/Cyberspace/Sprawl worlds Gibson builds feel bright enough to attract and worn enough to comfort.
Each time I jacked in, I escaped the chaos and found some serenity inside for a while.This time, though, something had changed.
Maybe it had turned around and seen its own shadow.
Maybe it had freaked, like it had just seen its own ghost?Whatever, inside, it was like somebody had poked a stick in a hornet's nest.
Everybody was running every which way, real people like me who'd jacked in, and data people.
Maybe it's me who's turned into a ghost.
Wait for somebody to turn up and like it?
Worse still, what if they were still inside reading them, but didn't like them?
Executive Summary: I've owned this book for years, and for some reason never picked it up and read it. Thankfully I participated in a "Secret Santa" book thing of sorts, and someone out there finally got me to read it. Full Review I've always been more of a Snow Crash person than a Neuromancer person. I found it the easier read, and enjoyed the lighter nature/faster pace of the story. It took me quite a few years to circle back and read Count Zero and later Burning Chrome. I enjoyed them all, bu
It took me quite a few years to circle back and read Count Zero and later Burning Chrome.
I enjoyed them all, but partially because I love the ideas of cyberpunk worlds and appreciate the role of these books played in the genre than for the actual story itself.
I picked up this book at the same time as Count Zero, but I was just never in a rush to read it.
As it's been quite some time since I read those books, I'm hard pressed to say this is my favorite of the series, but it's quite possible.I always enjoyed Molly more than Case.
You're led to understand what a specific piece of technology is as it's used, not explicitly just inferred, the same can be said about relationships between characters and even the way MLO ties in to the previous books in the sequence.
I always note this with Gibson and yet I continue to be surprised that it is the case.
Mona Lisa Overdrive mixes the legacy of the previous two Sprawl books with a corporate espionage–fuelled plot worthy of Spook Country.
Mona Lisa Overdrive reconciles these two universes: in the years since the events of Neuromancer, something strange has been happening in the matrix.
Doesn’t look like Angie, but as the daughter of a powerful Japanese businessman, she is a target all the same.I love how Gibson writes excellent women characters.
And he’s been doing it since the 1980s.This is relevant to Mona Lisa Overdrive in particular because of how three main characters are targets, as I explained above.
Mona Lisa Overdrive is the third book in Gibson's Sprawl trilogy, and it's the most fully-realized of the three.
The plots of Neuromancer and Count Zero followed the same pattern, and Count Zero really only served as a bridge between the first and third books.
Mona Lisa Overdrive flips back and forth between four subplots which weave together nicely, both with each other and with the previous two books.
The characters start to matter a little more and feel more like real people than 2D plot-puppets.
Having seen how it all ends, I think it might be worth revisiting Neuromancer someday to view it with more experienced eyes.
By the time you get to Mona Lisa Overdrive (don’t even attempt to read it before reading both Neuromancer and Count Zero), you’re feeling rather comfortable (or as comfortable as is possible to feel) in this world, so the setting lacks the force it had in the previous novels.
You may have to work at Neuromancer on audio if you’re not familiar with this world and its slang, but by the time you get to Mona Lisa Overdrive, that problem is long gone.
Somewhat better than the second book, takes the standalone elements of the previous two books and combines them.
Part heist, part thriller - good characters, great ending!This series defined cyberpunk, and while that concept was mostly a dream while the author pecked out the first novel on a manual typewriter, it was much closer to reality in 1988.
The same year this novel came out, an adventure video game was released based on the first book.I recommend the series, even to friends who really disliked the first book.
Looking forward to re-reading more William Gibson this year.
And this is where it has taken us.
Again, we have a new assortment of characters (the Yakuza boss' daughter; the robot-builder psychologically damaged by his prison time; the girl from the wrong side of the tracks), plus a few who seem oddly familiar, all caught up in seemingly disparate events that eventually begin to overlap.
How could I forget the AIs in cyberspace manifesting as voudon gods?)And the book may or may not end dancing on the razor's edge between cyberpunk and the Singularity.
So you're nicely set up for the rabbit punch when it comes.Gibson has brought his style back under control in this book, reining in some of the more wayward involuntary gestures of Count Zero.
I was a junkie, found myself making pauses in the day to sneak back to the Kindle and shoot up with just a couple of pages, just enough to keep me going, numb the pain.I'm forcing myself not to read the next Gibson for a while.
I'll get something more humdrum, rather than burn my next read in expectation before I start.I'm not going to bother talking about the plot, because it doesn't matter.
La historia tiene lugar ocho años después de lo acaecido en ‘Conde Cero’ y, como suele ser habitual con William Gibson, la novela la conforman varias líneas argumentales que convergen al final.Por un lado tenemos a Kumiko, una niña japonesa enviada a Londres por su padre, un jefe de la yakuza, para protegerla.
Otro hilo argumental tiene como protagonista a Mona, una joven prostituta que es requerida para un trabajo por su gran parecido con Angie Mitchell.
A Slick se le encomienda una tarea, hacerse cargo por un tiempo de un hombre sin identidad que está en animación suspendida.Para mi gusto, este tercer libro es el más flojo de la trilogía.
I was running low on reading material, and she was culling her collection of books as part of an overall process of reorganizing our house, and she grabbed about eight books and handed them to me with a heartfelt "I think you'd enjoy these." In her defense, many of them she hadn't read in years, so it's understandable she might have forgotten that MLO and Count Zero were part of a trilogy, intended to be read in a certain order, and maybe I should check Neuromancer out of the library first.Also funny enough, before John's comment I *still* had no idea that this was vol.
Concepts introduced and threads left dangling from both books are dealt in this one, favourite characters make an appearance, and the story is so much better than Count Zero.
While it lacks the number of action-packed and thrilling scenes of Neuromancer (or confusing prose of Count Zero), it’s certainly a very enjoyable book.
While initially annoyed by Colin, and doubtful of him, she finds that the unit is pretty knowledgeable when needed, can function as a personal guide, and Kumiko realises how useful and resourceful Colin is.Angela Mitchell, thankfully enough, is not so annoying and useless and redundant as she has been in Count Zero.
As with "Neuromancer," we never hear the story from Molly's POV, which is something you might have to be told to realize, because we've gottne to know her so well through the eyes of Johnny Mneumonic, Case, and now Kumiko Yanaka, the young mafia princess who Molly protects and mentors in "Mona Lisa Overdrive." And as with all of Gibson's novels, the more times you read it, the more you get.
Fifteen years after Molly, Case and Armitage crash the Tessier-Ashpool party, SJane, now a living part of the matrix, attempts to finish her business with former enemies while bringing sim-stem star, Angie, into the matrix with Bobby the Count -- or something like that.What made the story for me was Molly/Sally.
Sure the Finn's back as an AI, we discover what happened to Case, and even locations from Burning Chrome return to deepen Gibson's world, but Molly's presence means more than just background history.
She is the star of Gibson's future-world.
That's not because (as I explained in the "CZ" review) "Count Zero" was not good, it just didn't surpass "Neuromancer".
Subjective as charged, but that's my version and my review :-)I remember being surprised at how Gibson extended the "world" of his world with this book and being impressed by that.
Instead of creating another cookie-cutter trilogy (or longer-logy) he shifted the already familiar and comfortable world to push the boundary even if it was a risk that some readers would not approve.
He's the author, we are the readers.
I thought it was a great book and say so here.

One of them touched PLAY and she slid into the Angie-world, pure as any drug, slow saxophone and limo-glide through some European city, ...” (p.143)The third book in William Gibson’s Sprawl trilogy, Mona Lisa Overdrive continues the story of Angie Mitchell, one of the characters from the second book Count Zero.
Put the trodes on and they were out there, all the data in the world stacked up like one big neon city, so you could cruise around and have a kind of grip on it, visually anyway,” (p.16)In what is becoming a bit of a theme with Gibson’s books, Mona Lisa Overdrive requires your undivided attention to get the most out of it.
I think I actually read the three books that are all in this universe in order, although Count Zero was long enough ago that I remember very little of it, except that I liked it.
Neuromancer I've always had a difficult relationship with - it just persists in keeping me at arms length.
I don't dislike it, I'm just sort of baffled.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5I've had difficulty separating my emotional and psychological reaction to Gibson's predicted future from my appreciation of him as convincing worldbuilder.
I like to think I'm pretty flexible and can find a way to enjoy myself and make a rewarding life in a lot of different environments.
I found a lot to like in the second in the series, Count Zero.
(hide spoiler)] I found very little to like here, particularly when compared to what Gibson has produced elsewhere, including this series.
Un poco decepcionante. Como en Conde Cero el envión narrativo está relegado en favor de la ambientación. En cambio, Mona Lisa Acelerada no aprovecha las premisas especulativas de su predecesora, y el final parece precipitado. Da la impresión de que en este caso las tendencias barrocas de Gibson asfixiaron tanto la tensión como la resolución.
The story does a nice job of addressing ideas Gibson opened in earlier volumes.
How the merged Wintermute/ Neuromancer AI became "all information, and discovered an alien AI broadcasting from Alpha Century.
When an AI built using more the advanced "bio-soft" AI Colin interfaces with Wintermute/ Neuromancer and together they gallop off in search of the Alpha Century AI.
But Gibson doesn't just deliver "trippy" ideas and quirky, low-life characters that you hate to love, but do.
To stay "plugged in" hard enough to be transformed, you'll need to pay Kid Africa to keep you merged with cyberspace for months at a time using a new bio-soft deck.

Lei gli chiese il perché, ma Robin aveva già perso ogni interesse: perché Continuity era un'IA, e si sa che le IA fanno cose strane."Il migliore della Trilogia dello Sprawl, e sorprendentemente (e forse proprio per questo il migliore), il più lucido e comprensibile, nonostante la grane portata delle sue visioni più fantasmagoriche.Allontanandosi dalle atmosfere noir, sci-fi hard e thriller di Neuromante, dall'intreccio complesso e dal linguaggio criptico, in Monna Lisa Cyberpunk Gibson si fa più luminoso, più chiaro; forse perché ha ammorbidito il suo stile, forse perché il lettore ormai ci ha fatto l'abitudine, o forse perché, essendo l'episodio conclusivo della trilogia, tutti i nodi vengon al pettine e al lettore si manifesta finalmente un disegno trasparente e ampio.
