https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77163.Stones_from_the_River
I was astounded by Hegi's ability to capture both the everyday life of Germans over the 20-year span leading up to the end of WWII and the experience of a woman with dwarfism.
I am dying to know who in Hegi's life gave her the inspiration to portray the experience of a dwarf so accurately without treating her like a novelty.
My German friends and in-laws appreciate the need for novels set in WWII since they of course recognize the importance of what one can learn, but they are also sick of the theme being treated as a novelty by any author or filmmaker trying to catch the audience's attention.
I found this book at a library sale, and ended up buying it because I like the way the first page read.
Unlike many of the people who have reviewed this book I loved it from the beginning.
When we begin the story, Trudi and her friend Georg are the outcasts, but as the plot progresses-- as the Nazi's gain more power and WWII begins-- who is and isn't an accepted part of the community continues to morph.
What becomes important is how people deal with their relative societal acceptance, as well as how they treat those who have been deemed outcasts.
She stood firm in the midst of ridicule. She chose life in the middle of war. She took action instead of simply staying silent to atrocity. She gave people books and stories to take them away from their dismal worlds of hunger and strife. Despite being a little woman who was pitied and bullied because of her height, she chose people and books. She was not all good, but she was not all bad. She was human.  Staying close to the jetty, she'd streak through the shallow water like a frog, dive to the
Despite being a little woman who was pitied and bullied because of her height, she chose people and books.
This novel is about dreams, about the wants and desires of people forced into poverty, about the price for being different, about the cruelty of humanity.She was born to a mother who went insane once she saw what seemed like a large head and small limbs of her beautiful daughter, Trudi.
This story of the Montag family and the many characters that inhabit their lives during World War II Germany is not what I would call a page-turner.
The story is so important, and so deftly told, and the author does a great job of capturing the lives of citizens in a small German town from post-WWI through post-WWII.
I felt like I came to know many of the characters personally.
I had to really rethink what I know about history.
I didn't hit my "reading stride" until well into the book, and still I continued to struggle through the rest of the way.
But it's not one of those books that you "sink" into lazily and backstroke through the whole way.
Which, I guess, makes the title of the story just a little more apropos than it already is.
A sensitively imagined portrayal of a small German town in the fateful years between the first and second World Wars narrated from the perspective of an appealing main character who is both of the town in that she is the keeper of their secrets and the source of their gossip, but also other due to her diminutive size, there's a lot to like about this rich and colourful web of life.
It's a very digestible way of learning a lot about German modern history, but maybe I thought in my intellectual arrogance that I knew it all already.
and I am having a very hard time choosing the stars and knowing what to say!
Yes it is a very, very good book, BUT STILL it only received 4 rather then 5 stars.
The book is speckled with marvelous lines that get you thinking.
Who else would possibly care what you'd thought while looking out of the window or what you'd eaten for breakfast?" I feel the reader is strengthend, can learn womething about how to live their life by having these small inconsequential views pointed out.
Not beautiful in a flat descriptive way, but more that the author captures the souls of her characters.
Trudi endures teasing and general shunning by people all her life, but manages to come through WWII, even though The Reich is know to use such anomalies as test subjects.
I really felt the gradual control shift as Hitler started his programs and recruited the young-it was just eerie.Trudi is sort of a tough cookie and may annoy the reader at times with her fierce independence and stubborn behavior, but don't let that throw you off her trail because you would miss out on one of the most moving pieces of literature out there.
I have a much better understanding of the years building up to WWII, how Hitler convinced so many people to support him, and (for me) most intriguing how people lived with themselves and each other after the war ended.I think two aspects of the author's writing that I admired most was firstly that she never dramatized anything.
Each of these individual stories could have filled a book, but together they give us a much better idea and understanding of what happened.GR recommended this to me because I loved The Poisonwood Bible, and I have to agree that the feel is very similar.
I loved this book from the beginning.
The anger and passion of Trudi captivated me from beginning to end, and I had a hard time putting this book down.
I found that I had to concentrate harder on this book due to the number of characters, and with all of the german names.
This made it much harder to rush through the book, which ultimately should be cherished anyway.
I loved Trudi's strengths as a story teller, and her understanding of her surroundings that bordered on magical realism.
There aren't enough stars in the universe with which to rate this book. As five stars is all I can give "Stones from the River" I do so knowing that no amount of stars nor any review no matter how sexy or lyrical or witty or heart "wrenching-ly" beautiful could ever do the book or Ursula Hegi justice.I wish that "Stones from the River" had an infinite number of pages so that I could read it for the rest of my life.
This is one of the books that I recognize as being objectively wonderful in spite of my own ambivalence about it.
It's about a young dwarf named Trudi Montag, and her life in a small fictional German town during the rise and fall of the Holocaust.
One of the ways this book is so successful is in illustrating the steady rise of the horrific.
I appreciated Trudi's personal journey toward self-acceptance and her gradual realization that we each must create a sense of meaning and belonging for ourselves, but much of the supporting characters' stories felt tedious.
Whatever one thinks of modern Germany and its population, whether one is insistent on their culpability and propensity to commit evil acts, or is merely doubtful in some way, few people know the depth of the self-loathing, national examination and fury of descendants of “those ones” who participated, “looked the other way” or somehow minimized what happened.
I think I liked this book at least as much the second time around as the first.This is a story with two contrasting themes.
Told mostly from the perspective of Trudi, a dwarf, who feels how different she is from the members of her community on a daily basis.
And she sees how difference in others is persecuted under the Nazis.The other theme of this book is community.
One thing I really liked about this book is how we come to know so many members of Trudi's community throughout their lives.
Tutti gli altri non mi vedevano.Per quanto anch'io vantassi delle proporzioni canoniche, e guardassi il mondo con due occhi da cerbiatta, come solo le ventenni sanno fare, dal basso del mio 1,63, quando stavo con loro, diventavo magicamente invisibile.
Non c'era verso di spiccare manco grazie alla mia pelle ambrata, che faceva da contrasto alle loro pelli seducenti, ma chiare come il calcestruzzo.Così quando accadeva che qualche ragazzo si fermasse a parlare con noi, la conversazione rimaneva sempre ad altezza sventole (nel senso letterale della parola).L'asterisco nero coi capelli arruffati, in mezzo ai due punti luminosi passava in secondo piano, anzi..
Insomma: il nanismo è come il grasso.Va saputo portare.E Trudi lo porta in modo impareggiabile.Una grande lezione in un piccolissimo corpo.
Amazing!!! I have read one other book by Hegi, and now I want to read all her works. This book took me a long time to read, but mostly it was because I wanted to savor it. And read every. Single. Word. I loved these characters, and I enjoyed spending time with them, sharing in their stories, reveling in the words that made them come to life. My heart broke with and for some of them. Hegi has a way of bringing her characters to life. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I read this book with a lot of apprehension - not trusting it and expecting something horrible at any moment.That being said, this book captures human emotions of all kinds, but focuses on being different.
Like Trudi we often assume others are scorning our differences, when in reality many people don't notice or plain just don't care.
I've read depressing books before, but the author usually leads the reader to believe that despite the hardships, people are resilient and will carry on.
Now, I need to go find me a fluffy book to read to get this one out of my head.
I've read all of Ursula Hegi’s books and have yet to be disappointed.
In fact, Stones From The River stands among my favorite novels.
A high school friend turned me onto this book years ago and I am forever glad she did.
Stones From The River is the first in the Burgdorf series of novels set in Germany around the time of WWII.
With the creation of Trudi Montag, Hegi set the stage for some of the finest, most interesting characters and stories modern literature has ever seen.
For readers who want to complete the series: to date, the Burgdorf novels by Hegi include (in order): 1.
Stones From The River, 2.
Bellissimo romanzo, incentrato sul tema della "diversità"e della difficoltà della sua accettazione per chi la vive. La protagonista è Trudi Montag, una bambina, ragazza e poi donna "zwerg", nana. Per tutto il libro risuona questa parola, che sempre ricorda a Trudi la sua diversità. All'interno della storia di Trudi si svolge la tragedia della Germania che diventa nazista. Del nazismo e della guerra viviamo le tragedie attraverso gli occhi e i racconti di Trudi.Ogni accadimento, bello o brutto, della vita rimane impresso nell'animo della protagonista come pietre nel fiume, sulle quali l'acqua passa levigandole.Bellissimo!
This book brought home what it was like to live in World War II era Germany and gave me new understanding of the Nazi takeover and what it meant for German residents. It was also somewhat spooky in that regard, that some people were so wholeheartedly caught up in the militaristic regime, and that it was not safe for others to speak out. It made me think of that line from poetry, what we at first abhor we first come to tolerate, and then embrace. Excellent book.
Absolutely gorgeous, lucid writing.
Inexplicably, Trudi herself is saved from being sent to the death camps, because although she is arrested, the German officer handling her case lets her go because she saves her life by charming him with her storytelling (à la Scheherazade), plus the fact that he is having an existential sturm und drang crisis that will eventually cost him his life, so we are told.
In terms of storytelling, it is a reasonable effort, but it does tend to meander and get lost in different eddies and currents that might make you think that they are leading somewhere as part of a directed narrative with deliberate construction, when in fact the end result is a sequence of tangentially linked incidents.
Over the course of 4 decades, Trudi, tells you the story of her town, her friends, her physical limitations, her jealousy, and most importantly the Hitler reign that sweeps through her town exterminating all Jews and anyone who tries to help them.
At one point in the book, the town is returning to "normal" after WWII and Trudi wants to ask people about thier experience though she is urged to "let it go".
Trudi says...she doesn't want people to forget this ever happened and by talking about, you keep it alive.It also brought awareness to how the American government closed immigration of Jews to the US when Hitler started reeking havoc.
Ultimately, it was a lovely and rewarding book-- but the first couple of hundred pages are all setup and a bit difficult to sludge through.The book is about Trudi Montag, a young dwarf in rural Germany born to a WWI soldier and a crazy woman who grows up to defy the Nazis during WWII in her small town.
Ultimately, it is not a story of dramatic heroism, but about small and domestic heroic journeys -- which was very deftly handled.
There is a limited similarity in that they are both set in rural Germany during WWII.
I didn't care for the main character...
Like, literally, I couldn't have cared less what happened to her.
How could she remember everything about her mother from the time she was born?
Her mother died before she turned 4 and she remembered everything?
And she is psychic, I guess?
I didn't understand her character at all.
There were way too many characters in this book, I could not keep everyone straight.
about weird dwarf Trudi and her creepy psychic abilities.
I have no idea what happened in the ending.
But, it was dull and incomprehensible, just like the rest of this book.
Although there was not really a story going on, there were quite some interesting chapters and touching things. Overall it was not really a book that keeps you willing to read on. More like a movie in which there is no tension at all.
Which is okay — I felt like I was braced for one blow that didn't come.(Um, I did Google "Nazi Germany dwarfism" to learn a little bit more about real circumstances, but you know — be ready.)Actually… I'm not sure how to explain this.
Who, who would know what to do?Similarly, I do feel like mentioning that at times I felt on the edge of exasperation that the politics of the characters were a little too facile, in that the already-frustrating characters became Nazi supporters, and the wonderful Trudi and her father unwaveringly against.
There is a strong emotional impact, enough that I had to put the book down at one point and read something light-hearted before I could come back to it.The story starts in 1915 when Trudi, a dwarf, is born to Mr. and Mrs. Montag.
Trudi is not a quiet character during this section of the book; she becomes a young woman, in love; she hides Jews in her basement as one of the safe bases to smuggle people out of the country.The end of the book follows the community through the aftermath of the war, a difficult time as well.I did not actually understand the last few pages, but was so tired of reading the book that I did not make a serious effort to really nail it down.
3 1/2 starsI have had this book for over a year, starting the hard copy a few times and always putting it back down again.
I am getting very finicky about reading books where the typeset was chosen by a sadist with the intention of torturing the reader.So when I got the digital copy at last I was very excited, and I think my expectations were perhaps a bit too high.The story is told from the viewpoint of Trudie, a  Zwerg  born just after WW1 in a small fictional town of Burgdorf.
It didn't "ruin" the book nor did it change my opinion of the story's effectiveness or power.
I think the story could have ended 3 pages sooner and been far more believable.
I get most of what the author is trying to do at the end -- I understand Trudi's sudden comprehension that she really does belong.
I understand her realization of using stories to heal, not hurt.
:o) I really enjoyed Trudi's ability to "see" things about people, and to know things without being told.
Anyhow, the book certainly moved me.
Fairly certain this would have been in the five star range if I hadn't had to take a break from it due to a concussion...Had a tough time with keeping track of the characters after a two week hiatus. Loved the story...loved the perspective...
