https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55521.Serpico
graft [grafht] (n.): the acquisition of money, gain, or advantage by dishonest, unfair, or illegal means, especially through the abuse of one’s position or influence in politics, business, etc.I’ve had a hard time concentrating on reading for a few months, otherwise it wouldn’t have taken so long to finish this memoir.
They really helped set the tone and environment for the events that transpired in the book.February 3, 1971–Frank Serpico, aged thirty-five is shot in the face while working as an undercover detective in South Brooklyn’s Narcotics division.
An odd question to ask, except Frank Serpico is not like any other detectives of his time.
Perhaps an individual who decides to take such a big risk needs to be that way because there is no guarantee that anyone will listen to them when it's taking place and there is a very good chance that they will be alone when it's all over with.It is also obvious (as noted by other reviewers) that Mass had a bit of a man-crush on Frank Serpico.
Yes Mr. Maas does have a man-crush on Serpico.
However Mr. Maas actually does a very good job writing about Frank Serpico despite my snarky observations.
However Mr. Maas actually wrote a very good book.
The story of an honest cop who really wanted to protect and serve the people. Truly awe-inspiring!
When Frank Serpico joined the police force, he was ambitious, passionate, and naive.
The division was tainted with graft and corruption.
Prosecutors, working with police officers and some judges and magistrates engage in dubious activities which almost always leads to the release of thise who are accused of different crimes.
Serpico decided it was time to move to yhe 7th division.
His actions resulted in the indictments of some of the officers in the 7th division.
It also came with a lot of resentment from his fellow officers none of whom wanted to work with him.
I picked up a few books from the '70's that my parents were getting rid of and Serpico was the standout of the pick.
I remember the Al Pacino movie from my childhood and though it might be an interesting read.
I never realized how bad the corruption was in the NYPD, hadn't remembered that much from the movie but this story was a real eye-opener.
I did a little research after reading this book and it really doesn't sound like much has changed since the seventies.
We need more people like Frank Serpico in this world.This is a story worth reading.
It's not really written like a biography (which it's supposed to be); this is more like fiction/storytelling.Stick with the film (done much better).
In this book, Serpico, Maas wrote the biography of Frank Serpico who was a New York Police officer who witnessed and testified against corruption in the police service.
At this time, also, corruption was rife within NYPD.Frank Serpico was an officer in NYPD.
The story was a real eye opener.A culture of corruption had pervaded the New York City Police Department for many years.
Even today, many members of the police forces across the world are despised due to the prejudice and corruption they pedal.
We need more people like Frank Serpico in this world.I found this a very interesting book.
I'm sure this book massively influenced, or at least helped create the market for the epic, dark cop movies and television shows I love.
I would rather watch the French Connection or the entirety of The Sweeney overdubbed poorly into Belarusan six or seven times straight.The narration switches tense three times during the book without enough change in pace for the reader to realize it, fails pathetically in its attempts to make a cop into a counterculture, worldly playboy (he has a motorcycle, drinks tea rather than coffee, wears a beard, and dates black chicks.
I have always been fascinated with police undercover work. This is the book to read! The Genesis of the undercover testament. The book is by far better than the movie. Although the movie was great in its own right it could not provide the insight that the book does. I highly recommend reading the book and then rent the movie. It really puts the highly dangerous, but effective undercover police work into perspective.
Téma korupce policie v NY není můj cup of tea, ale na to, že jsem to sebrala namátkou v knihobudce, se to dalo - věděla jsem jen o filmu (který jsem neviděla), tak jsem si řekla, že předlohu si přečtu a třeba se na to někdy mrknu.
I originally saw the movie, then read the book when they first came out when I was in college in the mid-70s.
The book and the movie are so good on the main corrupters of police/politicians: victimless crime laws: gambling laws, Blue laws (making businesses close on Sundays), prostitution, drug laws, etc.
The movie does not actually say victimless crime laws cause the corruption, but it is perfectly clear to anyone who has thought about it that those laws are the source of all the corruption.It is not a question of good cops vs.
The police who police other cops..) or instead of just going with his own advice, and "going with it"/"just going his own way" he had to keep bucking the system and for what?!?
-he lost his dream of being a cop, helping others, doing some good-he might have been set up to be killed!
(No one really volunteered to say they organized it/did it...And last but not least....- widespread corruption is MASSIVE still to this day...
And THE cause of his own problems.....Either way I was not impressed...
I want my 2 and a half days back......The movie was SO MUCH BETTER!!!!
The author has a very interesting writing style; very engaging.
For a good part of the book I thought I was reading fiction, even though I already knew it was based on a true person, Frank Serpico.
Serpico is an interesting guy.My only criticisms are that there are too many characters and many of them aren't that distinguishable from one another.
This is especially true of the New York City brass that were supposed to investigate the corruption going on.
The legal proceedings toward the end I also found a bit hard to follow.According to Wikipedia, Frank Serpico was married 3 different times while in the New York City Police Department.
Serpico by Peter Maas was a recommended and required reading by my professor in College.
It is based on a true story which shaped the way police department policy is handled to this day.
Internal Affairs was born from Serpico's experiences.
This novel shows the historical making of an honest police department.
I never even new what "graft" was until I read this book.
If you want to know about some real history of the workings of police departments, this is the book for you.
This was a great book, I believe I would have read it without the coaxing of my professor!
In tracing one man’s career in NYPD, Peter Maas is able to construct an impressive diagram of a large police department’s workings.
If, along the way, Maas occasionally sees things too simply, it’s forgivable.Frank Serpico was a rarity: an honest policeman who realized his loyalty should lie with the public he was paid to protect, not with cops who profited from misery.
Years of trying to effect changes in-department slowly left the bearded officer from the Village more and more jaded until, finally, four badges walked side-by-side to enact unprecedented public disclosure.Serpico’s story is a triumph of moral courage, the telling of his story a triumph of journalism.
The book, which quickly becomes addictive, is a great look at a seedy criminal enterprise flourishing within a stagnant bureaucracy.
As with any large institution, people at the top seem unwilling to even examine problems it may be difficult to solve, preferring instead to bury them and stifle those who want to raise the issue.
The look at New York City in the late 60s and early 70s as crime spiraled out of control while the underpaid, ineffective police department is consumed by corruption, satisfies a desire to see things at their very worst.
It is shocking to see that almost no effort went into actually fighting crime.
The movie actually does the book justice.

Thought this would be an interesting window into NYC of the 1960s & 70s, but I found it lacking. More of a "hero woship" of Serrpiico than a view into what the force was like in the time period. Better read for that : the French Connection."
"Only a fool, fixed in his folly, thinks he can turn the wheel whereon he turns." - T.S. Eliot***I've got to be honest, I ended up reading this book because I love Al Pacino movies - well, that and I am fascinated by the subject of corruption/abuse of power.
Right after watching the 'Serpico' movie, I decided that I needed to read the book by Peter Maas.
Here are the things that I gained an appreciation for about Frank Serpico:- TRUE TO SELF: He was unlike his fellow cops in many ways and did not change his style to try to fit it.
There are a lot of things I love about this book, one of them is, obviously, Serpico.
I don't have enough words to describe his bravery and perseverance but the book does a very good job doing that.
The author, Peter Maas, tells the story in a way that sometimes I forgot it was real which made the book extremely addictive, in my opinion.
I think I also need to address the movie "Serpico" with Al Pacino, without it, I would not have known about this book in the first place.
So, thank you for your bravery, Frank Serpico.
Police corruption has always been a topic of interest for me.
This book was focused on the NYC police department back in the 60's and early 70's.
There was a lot of payoffs, bribes, and system-wide corruption and one cop decided not to ignore it.
This book is based on a true story and chronicles the struggles of a rookie cop who just wants to be honest and serve the public to the best of his ability.
A must read for anyone with an interest in the integrity of the people who "protect and serve" the public.
Serpico is an American hero, and I was glad to finally read this book and learn his story. Overall the writing was good--specific and technical, yet novelistic. Some word choices and perspectives were staunchly set in the '70s and so were a bit jarring to me. In that way this is a period piece of sorts but really captures the world Serpico lived in. Well worth reading and it goes by quickly. He's still alive, I learned. I hope he's happy.
Pretty similar to the legendary film, not much in the way of changes. A great story about an honest cop battling against the fierce tide of police corruption. The cynicism is rife in a story like this; no matter who he turns to, he receives the same brush offs. Everyone knows the scale of the corruption in operation but they're either complicit or not brace enough to suffer the political consequences of investigation. A legendary story about a legendary officer.
One tough life for a cop with morals and integrity back 'in the day'.Read for personal research into early NYPD history. I found this work of immense interest.This book's contents were helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.Overall, this work is also a good resource for the researcher and enthusiast.
Such a good read. Maas did a really good job with the narrative, and it's hard to put this book down. The afterward by Serpico that's included in the new printing is wonderful, too.
Gripping, inspiring and really well-written.
Great classic true story
This true story of a New York City police officer battling to uncover the systematic corruption he is encountering in the force during the 60's is really fascinating. However, the way Maas delivers the story is painfully long-winded at times. I found myself wanting to just skip to the next chapter just to break the monotony.
read between fall 1974 & spring 1975
True story of a New York policeman who fights against the corruption he finds amongst his fellow plainclothesmen in the 1960's.
Six years ago while waiting with my friend from Charleston,SC to get into Ford Field to watch my beloved Packers destroy the Lions, we saw a car hit a truck and keep driving.
About 30 people saw this since the hit was loud.
I could tell my friend was shaken up, but this is what I am used to from Detroit's finest.I have a great respect for the police, they risk their lives for the public and I believe that they go into the profession with the best of intentions.
