https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/739840.Bambi
Book Review  Bambi, a children's / young adult book published in 1923 by Felix Salten, is very different than the one we've seen from Walt Disney. Many have seen the cartoon versions, felt sad for the death and know it as a classic "growing-up" book for kids. But it's really a whole lot more, if you choose to read the original version. And for that, it gets 4 of 5 stars for this reader. The book is not written as a children's story, i.e. for a 4 or 5 year old to look at pictures, read the funn
Many have seen the cartoon versions, felt sad for the death and know it as a classic "growing-up" book for kids.
But it's really a whole lot more, if you choose to read the original version.
The book is not written as a children's story, i.e. for a 4 or 5 year old to look at pictures, read the funny captions and laugh at the adventure of the animals.
you may want them to see the cartoon version first, as I think that has a lot of emotion packed into it...
Read this book some time ago and all the family really enjoyed the story. A timeless classic that I needed tissues for when I read to the children. Pure nostalgia.
What distinguishes this book is that although we see and yearn for Bambi’s world, we also see that nature is indeed red in tooth and claw, and never more so than when “He” enters the scene.Felix Salten’s experiences after writing Bambi must only have confirmed his views of man’s inhumanity.
Bambi’s mother tells him quietly that one of these proud and grand stags is his father.As he grows older, Bambi learns more about the sounds and smells of the forest.
At one point she said something like, "The words seem so real!" How wonderful to watch my daughter's love of reading and storytelling develop!Update: I've thought about this book overnight and now I've got a few more things I wanted to add.
I was thinking about this book in the context of Salten's life as a Jew in Austria before the second World War. Apparently, he was born in Budapest in 1869 and moved to Vienna when he was just a baby because in 1867, Jews got full citizenship in Vienna.
No wonder I found this book so satisfying.
I did read it very many years ago but had forgotten just how wonderful and sensitive Felix Saltern's writing is.
Although in the book the animals "talk" which is not to everyone's taste, the story manages somehow to capture the inner feelings of the creatures.It is in many ways such a gentle book, full of wisdom, yet there is violence too.
It is a book about wisdom, love, courage, discernment whilst learning the lessons of life.
I found it to be a delightful experience to read this book again after so many years,
The book begins with the birth of Bambi and his all-important first relationship with his gentle, loving mother, his childhood friendship with Faline and his early learning about ‘Him’ (who is never named) but we know to be man or men, specifically hunters with their third arm.
One day upon hearing three shots fired in the woods, the old stag, Bambi’s father, leads his son to the scene of the shooting, the very last place Bambi wants to go.
The dialogue between the two deer is illustrative of a revelation and is as follows:‘“Do you see Bambi,” the old stag went on, “do you see how He’s lying there dead like one of us?
The scenes of death throughout the book are graphic and horrifying and there is a true feeling of absolute terror at times that is truly palpable.
It's done through very powerful imagery and makes one very uncomfortable at times.Why Disney decided to make this into a mostly feel-good story, I'm not sure, but those unsuspecting children who decided to read the book that one of their favorite films was based upon were surely exposed to quite a shocking experience.I didn't hate it, but I can't really say that I enjoyed it all that much either.
He's so wonderful and green...""'Can it be true,' said the first leaf, 'can it really be true, that others come to take our places when we're gone and after them still others, and more and more?''It is really true,' whispered the second leaf.
'We can't even begin to imagine it, it's beyond our powers.''It makes me very sad,' added the first lead.They were silent for a while.
Here and there may be a little yellow spot but it's hardly noticeable and only makes you handsomer, believe me.''Thanks,' whispered the second leaf, quite touched.
This Bambi lives a grim and dangerous life, his world filled with blood and fear -- and most of his troubles emanate from the dreaded Man.Bambi's response to his pitiless world is to emulate his distant father, exiling himself from the company of others -- even Faline, his mate.
In abandoning these relationships, he chooses a solitary life in which he accepts loneliness (his own and Faline's) as the price of his safety.There is a clear sense that Bambi's coming-of-age is defined by no longer needing to rely on others.
Can't you stay by yourself?" Later in life, his father befriends him and teaches him to move through the forest so that he is never seen.
Bởi sự sống nào mất đi thì cũng tạo nên một khoảng trống lớn trong cuộc sống của những sinh vật còn lại.Và giữa những sự khắc nghiệt, hiểm nguy sinh tồn đó, Felix Salten đã biến mọi thứ trở nên dễ chấp nhận hơn, bớt đau buồn hơn bằng những câu văn miêu tả cánh rừng và cảnh sắc thiên nhiên đầy chất thơ và đẹp đến ngạt thở của mình.
Disney`s Bambi ist wirklich sehr nah an der Geschichte von Felix Salten geblieben. Ich kannte die Grundgeschichte also schon.Es lohnt sich auf jeden Fall, auch das Buch zu lesen. Felix Salten schreibt sehr schonungslos und bildlich.
Disney`s Bambi ist wirklich sehr nah an der Geschichte von Felix Salten geblieben. Ich kannte die Grundgeschichte also schon.Es lohnt sich auf jeden Fall, auch das Buch zu lesen. Felix Salten schreibt sehr schonungslos und bildlich.
I knew something was up when I read about Felix Salten in The Lady in Gold: The Extraordinary Tale of Gustav Klimt's Masterpiece, Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer.
But the observations about the natural world, the changing of the seasons, the behaviors of the creatures, his narrative provokes powerful images in the reader's mind.
The Nazis banned the book in 1936, in part because they claimed the hunt was a subversive reference to the treatment of Jews, but Salten was Jewish and this was just one more brutal ploy on the road of genocide.
In fact, if anyone out there could tell me some more books that realistically portrays the thoughts of non-human animals, without personifying them in any way besides giving them verbal language, I'd appreciate the reading suggestion!Bambi is a delightful book right from the start.
I don't believe in any gods, but when I read a book like this, it's clear to me that humans are doing something hideous by thinking we are god-like, and can affect the lives of all other animals however we please.
Muito muito tocante e triste, bem mais que o filme :( o livro foca muito mais na questão doa caçadores e no sofrimento dos animais. Recomendado (mas não para crianças)
Read my original review at: http://merikthorne.blogspot.com/2016/....I'm quite the fan of Walt Disney's interpretation of Bambi, but was rather hesitant to hear the original tale, due to the many mentionings of its harshness towards the practice of hunting.
Yet I was surprised to find that it was not a disappointment!Felix Salten's Bambi is the tale of a young stag and the future prince of the forest.
All the while, an unknown danger stalks their forest...I personally do not believe that killing wild animals for survival is wrong.
The reasons why this book is so sad:1.
Bambi doesn't even know if he loves Faline anymore.3.
Faline is feeling so droopy and depressed that if she were a human she'd probably kill herself4.
The old stag dies just when things get worse.5.
Bambi has so many happy memories of when he was a fawn right when things are bad, which gives you too big of a nostalgia trip that you can hardly keep it together, or maybe it's just me.
So, for the most part this book has more sad moments than happy ones.
This is a dark and beautiful fable, not at all what I was expecting. Much more brutal and bloody than modern children's books of course, but also with tons of depth. Its themes are timeless enough that any number of allegorical interpretations might apply. Apparently the nazis banned the book for being anti-fascist. The writing itself is subtle and evocative. Feel your heart break over a single falling leaf.Like a cross between a woodland fairy tale and Animal Farm, this definitely holds up as a book for grownups.
Perhaps it is because of this harsh reality that Bambi's father instills in him the ideal that the only way to remain safe is to be alone:"But of all his teachings this had been the most important; you must live alone, if you wanted to preserve yourself, if you understood existence, if you wanted to attain wisdom, you had to live alone."Which is quite different from the overall feeling one takes away from the Disney movie, which is filled with cheerful sidekicks and the theme that "love is a song that never ends."This sense of aloneness permeates the book and is perhaps the most heartbreaking aspect of it.
I bought this book to read to my children because I thought it would be a richer, better story than the Disney movie I grew up with.
(my kids have never seen it)The writing is lovely, if heavy on adverbs, and there are some gorgeous descriptions of life in the forest and some profound observations on the harsh realities of the natural world.
My three-year-old asked repeatedly that I NOT read it.
He's placed into the exact situation in which he found himself as a young fawn, in the moment when the wise old stag treated him harshly.
Dá uma dor no peito acompanhar a vida do Bambi, porque a inocência do primeiro capítulo vai se perdendo e sendo substituída por melancolia e solidão, que aparecem no seu auge nas últimas frases do livro :~ É uma transição tocante, que te acerta em cheio.
Você se pega pensando em como a vida é cíclica, como o Bambi cresceu e, principalmente, como o jeito que ele olhava o mundo mudou.A maneira como retratam os humanos é uma coisa à parte, porque oscila entre assombração e mito, num sentimento muito distante e próximo ao mesmo tempo.
Esta é uma história tremendamente maravilhosa, mas não sei se recomendaria a qualquer um (?).
Just finished my first re-read of this as an adult. It was chosen as one of the literature books for our 3rd graders this year and I needed to read it again to prepare myself to read it with my students. And it's good I did, as there are scenes that are fairly graphic and now I'll be better able to prepare them.It is spectacularly beautifully written, and I'm excited to get to see what my students think!
One of my most beloved childhood stories, Bambi relates the story of a young fawn shortly after he is born, all the way through to his adulthood. If you eat venison after reading this book, then you have no heart! This book brings the forest alive. All of Bambi's beloved childhood friends are in it, and the Old Stag, his father, plays an important role. I adore this book, and will cherish it always.
Bambi is about mentoring and the phases of learning...and so much more. I wrote my review on it here:http://tjed-mothers.com/mentoring-les...
Unkarilaissyntyinen Salten syntyi Budapestissä, Pestin puolella 1911 ja varttui perheineen Wienissä.
Salten oli journalisti, pakinoitsija, näytelmäkirjailija, elokuvakäsikirjoittaja ja teki myös librettoja.
1927–1933 Salten toimi Itävallan Pen-liiton puheenjohtajana.
Hänen kirjansa kiellettiin natsi-Saksassa vuonna 1935.
Vuonna 1939 Salten emigroitui Sveitsiin tyttärensä avustuksella ja kuoli lopulta köyhänä, sillä emigranttina hän ei saanut työlupaa.
Bambi-elokuvasta Salten ei hyötynyt lainkaan.
Bambi on kertomus metsästä ja sen eläimistä.
Bambi lapsesta nuoreksi perheensä kanssa, mutta metsän ruhtinas, Bambin oletettu isä, on hänen varsinainen mentorinsa.
Lapsen kanssa lukiessa tuli pohdittua niin luonnon upeutta kuin julmuuttakin, rakkautta, kuolemaa, eläinten oikeuksia ja kasvissyönnin mahdollisuuksia.
Varsinkin eläinten pakokauhua eläytyen kuvaavat metsästyskohtaukset olivat melko pysäyttäviä.
I have never been a big fan of what Disney movies do to books, but now that I've finally read Bambi for the first time as an adult, I'm even more appalled.
The book is a beautifully written story about Bambi growing up in the forest under the guidance of his mother and surrounded by all the animals of the woods.
I don’t feel so sure of my grip onto the tree as I used to.”“Let’s not talk any more about such things,” said the first leaf.The other replied, “No, we’ll let it be.
You would think because this is a movie more people would have read it, but try finding someone who even knows about the existence of this book.
Like most Disney movies, this is not really the same story.
Disney kept the environmental themes, but took out the philosophy and changed most of the names.
At times it's makes you smile and other times you might get depressed, kind of like how seasons change.
If you seen the movie I recommend this book.
Chances are it's not the book you think you're going to read, it's better.
Don't be fooled. This is not the Bambi of Disney cartoon fame. In fact the author, in his dedication, claimed that this was a book for the outdoorsman. Bambi is a happy tale for starts, but then very much becomes a book about nature and the circle of life.
I use his words now, "Bambi is a delicious book.
He feels nature deeply, and he loves animals...I particularly recommend it to sportsmen."All I can add to that is that I would also love to recommend this book to sportsmen.
Not least of which, the ending, (view spoiler)[, mainly because the book ends with a man dead in the forest."Do you see, Bambi," the old stag went on, "do you see how He's lying there dead, like one of us?
He isn't all powerful as they say.
Everything that lives and grows doesn't come from Him. He isn't above us.
In his forward John Galsworthy describes Bambi as "delicious" and that is as succinct and apt as any description gets. Few books have so immediately resonated like small bells within my heart as rapidly as did this small, perfectly crafted classic. This is not the movie though plot wise the two are not so far from each other. The tone and the message are both dark and profound; it is almost chastening in its severity. And all it is is the life of a deer. It is a gorgeous read and officially on my list of "everyone should read this".
This is a very different book than the Disney movie. I realise at the time that the Disney animated movie caused something of a kerfuffle, since Bambi's mom is shot off-screen. In the book, things only start there. The novel, while well-written, is much more violent than one might expect, and is not especially appropriate for many children under 10.I do not recommend that people run out and buy this novel if their children thought Bambi, Farina, and Thumper were cute, the therapy bills will be astronomical.
