https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3462.The_Rescue
They get me all the time-cute little kids in stories.^^Just to be clear, Mr. Sparks’ standard formulaic ingredients are still there:✽ Small town setting✽ A simply beautiful female character who turns every man’s head in said small town✽ An attractive male character who wears masculine work boots✽ Tragic tone✽ Slow start✽ More than necessary writing details✽ *Ahem* A love scene or two (or more)✽ At least one death✽ Heart-wrenching scenes/dialogues that’ll make you spill tears.
(At least I found the perfect excuse to spill tears I have been trying to hold back since my wisdom tooth started growing)BUT, I particularly adore the portrayal of the female character, Denise.
This is an emotional,heartwarming story of three impaired individuals starting with Denise Holden, a single mother who is struggling to raise her four year old son KYLE, a cute boy who suffers with delayed speech disorder(an auditory processing syndrome).
So I guess,these facts about this book is worth for the rating I gave.^^
As soon as I opened the first page I was lost, reading continuously for the next 24 hours.
Thinking to myself, damn that Nicholas Sparks' he's done it again, sucking me right back into one of the best love stories I've ever read.
I won't be giving anything away by telling you that Taylor rescues both Denise and her son and together they forge into a relationship.
But as wonderful as the relationship seems in the beginning it doesn't take long for the cracks to show and the harder Denise tries to help Taylor the more he pulls away.
Before going anywhere with this review I would like to say that I love Nicholas Sparks.
The rest of the novel is how they fall in love and how Taylor manages to overcome his issues from the past and how they live happily ever after.My main complain here, I never thought I would say this for a Nicholas Sparks novel, is the writing.
I really did not understand how Taylor’s problems from the past kept him from getting too close to Denise.Finally, I thought Nicholas Sparks tried to explain things a little too much.
Even though I didn't finish this awful book, I find that over a week later I'm still FURIOUS about this:The heroine is a penniless single mom who works the night shift as a waitress and during the day takes care of her disabled 3-year-old.
But if you're a single parent and work full time at a minimum-wage job, by all means spend your precious few leisure hours reading books or meditating or sleeping or taking a walk or, heaven forbid, posting on facebook, and if your house is a mess I won't think a bit less of you.
Single mother, Denise Holton is driving back home after a doctors appointment with her four year old son, Kyle in the back seat.
Distraught and worried, Denise explains to, Taylor that her son was in the back seat and is now missing.
Denise also explains to Taylor that, Kyle has a learning and speech disorder which means he would not respond if his name was being called out.
A short time after the accident, Denise bumps into, Taylor at the supermarket and it's not long after this that they start to form a friendship.
My relationship with Nicholas Sparks began with The Notebook, the movie.
From there, I've been picking up his books and waiting for his new releases.Nicholas Sparks has a craft of bringing his characters to life.
He doesn't just paint a story; he brings it to life.
Nicholas Sparks picks the perfect title for his books, making you wonder what it really means because he's not referring to the obvious.As with most Nicholas Sparks books, have the tissues ready.
Nicholas Sparks is a romantic-sizer, not a sex hound.Review originally posted on The Book Vixen.
Totally a Nicholas Sparks formula, but I liked this one better than most. He at least waited until the couple knew each other for 3 weeks before hitting the sack together. It usually takes about 3 days, and happens immediately following their first kiss. I liked that they waited until they had kissed a few times, but really, can't he just hold off with the sex until they actually know each other? I'm still a Nicholas Sparks fan, though, because I am a woman, and I need my love stories. :)
“People come, people go – they’ll drift in and out of your life, almost like characters in a favorite book. When you finally close the cover, the characters have told their story and you start up again with another book, complete with new characters and adventures. Then you find yourself focusing on the new ones, not the ones from the past.”
Não considero bem o meu género literário, mas uma coisa é certa, Nicholas Sparks sabe escrever.O que me apegou imenso a este livro foi sem dúvida a criança, Kyle, e a maneira como a mãe lidava com ele.
As escolhas difíceis que muitas personagens acabam por enfrentar, ficámos a pensar "E se fosse eu no lugar delas, que faria?", este livro mostra-nos não uma, mas várias mensagens.
Quando acabámos o livro ficámos a sentir uma paz interior e o primeiro pensamento que nos vem à cabeça é "Ainda bem que li este livro", de uma maneira ou de outra acaba por influenciar a nossa vida.
I was so mad after I read this book I actually sat down and wrote a letter to the author.
Presumably all the main figures in the story are "rescued"--the little boy is lost and then rescued, the single mother meets the rescuer of her little boy and falls in love with him and marries him (I think that is supposed to be HER rescue!) and the main character (after failing to rescue his buddy from a burning building) is "rescued" by his wife and stepson and, of course, their new baby.I mean--what?
Sparks' has a frustrating habit it seems, having also read Message In A Bottle, of substituting plot intrigue and drama for actual character development.
Now this book is about Taylor McAden and Denise Holden - and boy do I love these two people so freaking much.
Of course it did.Besides Taylor, there's Denise who is a single mom who coincidentally doesn't have time for love in her life.
Taylor freaking saves Denise after she was in a car accident.
However, I shipped the heck out of Taylor and Denise and I will continue throughout the rest of my life.
Seriously, I will.Overall, I loved this book so much that I can't wait to dive into my next sparks book.
ICK.I borrowed this book from a friend while on vacation, because I was DESPERATE.
Melissa and Mitch's main functions were to push Taylor towards (or back to) Denise.
A friend who is a speech therapist had some very critical things to say about the "therapy" presented in the book.
Speaking for myself, I did not find the therapy methods Denise used very convincing.
All that would teach a child (it seems to me) is that learning = pain, or at the least, discomfort.Next time I'm that desperate for reading material I'll read the back of my shampoo bottle instead.
As the parent of a child with special needs, this book came very close to my heart.It may look like a cliche at first: a sweet love story between a beautiful woman in need of rescue and a rugged handsome hero on the background of an idyllic small town.
And while describing Denise's life, Sparks manages somehow to perfectly describe the life of almost all the mothers of children with special needs.
Did other mothers wake up every day and wonder whether their child would ever have a friend?
Re-read: April 20163rd time readingShe knew that the initial feelings associated with love were almost like an ocean wave in their intensity, acting as the magnetic force that drew two people together.
Single mom Denise Holton is driving home one stormy night with her 4 year old son, Kyle.
I think the reason that this one affects me the most though, is because I can relate quite a bit with the MC, Denise.Like her, I too am a single mother ( though I have two ).
Denise has basically given up her life as she knew it to devote her time to her son.
While reading The Rescue by Nicholas Sparks, I didn't want to put it down.
Every chance I had I wanted to read to see what happened.
Like most of Sparks' books it was amazing.
I would suggest this book for girls to read rather than boys.
Denise gets into a car accident during one of the wildest storms ever known to hit Edenton, a small town in South Carolina.
I would suggest this book to anyone who has read Nicholas Sparks’ books before and likes them.
I would read this book again and again.
I had never planned on reading another Nicholas Sparks book, but my mother-in-law gave me a copy of this book thinking I would like it.
The writing was so pedestrian that it barely sparked my interest, and the repeated references to Taylor's father's death without explanation became annoying.
Of course I realized that it was an important mystery that somehow related to Taylor's inability to stay in a relationship, but, when, at the very end of the book, the death story is finally revealed, it is so horrifyingly pull-at-the-heartstrings, do-I-really-want-that-image-in-my-brain tragic, that I felt all the more manipulated.
As popular a story-teller as he is, Nicholas Sparks just doesn't do it for me.
I don't understand why I can't just give up on Nicholas Sparks. I keep reading his books even though there has yet to be one I really liked. 80% of the time I spend reading his stuff I'm bored out of my mind. I guess I'm just a glutton for punishment. This book was quite possibly the most blah book of his I've read to date. I don't understand why I can't just fall in love with him like everybody else! I'm sure it's me that's the problem. I'm defective. Sorry
The writing itself was OK, aside from a few "telling not showing" episodes, and an occasional duplication of the same phrase (ie, "roll in the sack"), but in general it is easy to see why his books are often bestsellers among people who like this sort of thing - but I didn't identify with, or even like, the characters.
I took the Sparks book because I'd seen (and liked) The Notebook, and have read good reviews of his writing.
His life is determined to rescue people.Denise had been rescued by tAYLOR, PHUYSICALLY AND EMOTIONALLY.
Taylor fails in rescuing Mitch, another main event in the story.
Taylor tries to rescue Melissa and her kids, trying his best to replace Mitch.Denise rescues Judy, from the worries about her son.
And melissa rescues taylor from his life on lie.
Mitch rescued Taylor from his lie-life indirectly.
Taylors guilt and the ways he adopted to deal with that remind me of Sparks ability to form a "fn inside a fn inside a fn" in word game.
Sparks has a unique ability to express things so..
Around page 100, the story moves into the "love story."As a note to myself (or reminder so that I don't buy it again), the book is about a fireman and a single mom.
The mom takes care of her son all day and works in a diner at night.
The son has a speech problem which require time and patience from the mom, and the fireman adopts easily to their lifestyle.
The fireman takes all of the risks when dealing with fires as a way to cope with his past experiences related to his father.
my heart. Oh it fucking hurts - a lot.
Просто Спаркс!
After all, Taylor was the one who rescued her from a car accident one stormy night, then found her son Kyle, who had wandered off into the swamp afterward.
It’s the way Taylor treats Kyle just like a normal boy in the days that follow the accident.
Kyle, whose learning disability causes him to speak far below the normal level for kids his age, whose disability was the reason Denise gave up her teaching job and devoted herself full-time to helping Kyle learn.
And it’s also the way Taylor McAden looks at her like no one has looked at her before.But after a few blissful months, things seem to go sour.
Okay, I get it.
This book was designed to feed the ego of every woman who believes she's supermom.
I found Denise's obsession (portrayed by Sparks as devotion) with her son, Kyle, too easy, too pleasing and, at times, entirely sickening.
I mean really, wouldn't repeatedly restraining him in a chair, often for hours on end, until he finally utters a single word be considered abuse in some states?
Admittedly, I'm not what you'd call a Sparks "fan".
I have read and enjoyed a few of his books, and this one screamed "afterthought".
Perhaps it was a quick write and quick publish designed to ride the waves of his enormous success.
Remember loving this one, time to read again.
I NEVER thought I would like a romantic novel, but this one got me i really couldn't put this book down I needed something like this.
Za nijansu lošija ostalih, jer je nekako predvidiva, ali opet divna na svoj način :)
"she decided life was like manure." Well this book was like manure and this line made me finally give up. I knew when I started this that it wasn't gonna be all sunshine and rainbows since it's Nicholas sparks, but this is seriously one of the most depressing books I've ever opened. Kid with speech disabilities, single mom struggling you make ends meet, kid gets lost after a crazy accident, commitment phobic hero with a dead dad....it was bumming me out and as my life is depressing enough on its own I decided to call this one a dnf.
Prachtig boek over moederliefde dat onuitputbaar is Liefde tss man en vrouw En zoals in de meeste boeken van Nicolas sparks ,had ik terug de zakdoek nodig , zijn boeken zijn heel emotioneel geschreven
