https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7048800-the-particular-sadness-of-lemon-cake
Let me first say that this is my first Aimee Bender experience, and though I will rant and rave about certain issues I had with the book, I will more than likely seek out other works by her.
Together, Rose and George, begin to test her abilities by tasting different cookies made at a bakery.
About this time in the narrative, different details about Rose’s mother and father begin to take shape.
Having a character turn into a chair, one that can taste people’s feelings, and another that can smell what a person is like IS NOT MAGICAL REALISM.
As soon as it's brought up you start salivating, almost tasting how delicious each morsel is going to be.
But, after awhile, the bites become more forceful, the taste more dull and average, ending with a full belly, but still not feeling full.
And the minute you put your fork down and give in to your limit, you know in half an hour you're going to be hungry again.
Now, I could write a review detailing all the shortcomings and accomplishments that Bender managed, but in the end, all this book really was was Chinese food.
I can't find a single reason why anyone would read this book.SPOILER * SPOILER * SPOILER * SPOILERRose is a young girl who learns that she can taste the emotions of people in the food they cook.
In this way, Rose finds out her mother is sad and empty, to the point she can't eat the food her mother prepares.
Her mother has an affair - which Rose finds out about by eating dinner - her father is just sort of there, and her brother has a habit of disappearing.
This, Rose learns, is because he becomes furniture.
I looked at it quite a few times before I realized the shadow wasn't reflecting the cake, but a girl; I'm guessing the narrator, Rose.Upon first glance and the reading of the synopsis, I'm reminded of The Edible Woman by Margaret Atwood which I haven't read in years and would like to skim through again.And it was all downhill from there.
But then part of me was thinking, why am I worrying, why can't I go and just be totally honest about how I feel about this book.Rose has the weirdest eating disorder I've ever heard of: she can taste the feelings and true emotions of the person who prepared her food, as well as those who have handled the ingredients.
This gift is more of a curse, as Rose becomes privy to her mother’s emotional turmoil that is masked by her cheerful and outgoing personality.This quirky novel is certainly not for everyone, and I wasn’t quite sure it was for me either, but I quickly got sucked into Rose’s life as she discovers family secrets and learns more about herself.
He’d only give away his food if the corners were cleanly cut, as he believed a homeless person would just feel worse eating food with ragged bitemarks at the edges – as if, he said, they are dogs, or bacteria.
I wasn't bothered by the lack of punctuating dialogue.
I wasn't bothered by the fact that this was a novel in which things didn't really happen -- because I think they did.
It's all heartbreaking and evocative...just a little gem of a story, I think.This is one of those novels that sticks with you for several days, offering up little bits and pieces until you see them in a new light and make the connections that Bender implies but never pushes.
Though I must say, this book if it were an IRL person would be like Lee Holloway, all presumed innocence but in fact kinky as hell.
I would like to be this book in the hands of Kat Dennings whilst she licked salt off her fingers because she's eating buttery popcorn whilst she reads me.
And you kind of want to convince everyone that there's whiskey in your coffee mug instead of tea, it's a little embarrassing but it doesn't change the way you feel about it.
I'm several chapters in and annoyed at the author's choice to completely ignore the style rule of punctuating dialogue with quotation marks.
First, that Bender chose not to use quotation marks, I was hoping that after completing the book I would see a reason for the decision but I still see none.
I'd give the book three stars for moments of wonderful writing, but I'm taking away one star for the bad choice of punctuation, which includes not only the complete lack of quotation marks but also the baffling use of "--." as a part of dialogue,  and the strange schizophrenic nature of the story.
after: oh dear. oh Aimee. i love you so, have loved you so, continue to love you so, but i am so sorry to say that this book was a bit of a disappointment. it felt... unfinished. hinted at. like an early draft, almost. i know how stunning you can be, and it isn't that this is bad or anything... it's just not up to the standard i expected. which is probably partially my fault. probably just like  The Ticking Is the Bomb , just like  The Learners , just like  The Great Perhaps , just like all post
i love you so, have loved you so, continue to love you so, but i am so sorry to say that this book was a bit of a disappointment.
like an early draft, almost.
probably just like 
, just like 
, just like 
and it was good, Aimee, it was nice, but "nice" when I was expecting "magnificent" is more of a letdown than if it'd just been bad.
during: ooh boy I'm so happy to be reading this!before: omigod omigod omigod omigod omigod omigod omigod omigod omigod omigod i CANNOT WAIT for this book to be mine.
Reading this so I can talk and/or rage about it with Mattie.I left a lot of rage in my comment on another review, but I will just say this book was an utter disappointment.
The factory thing in particular was ridiculously annoying.Rose was boring.
Maybe she purposefully made herself so, to contrast the too-interesting-mother (who also went nowhere in this story, despite a dramatic setup) and grandma (again, contrived and pointless) and brother (whose storyline I will not go into at length except so say it was a waste of space) but since none of that was ever explored, she was just boring.
I expected a sweet, coming of age book.
The kind of book you didn’t necessarily have to take too seriously or think about for too long.
Instead it was an incredibly tender and profound book that asks questions I don’t quite know how to answer.
And not just, say, “Oh, she’s feeling happy” or “she’s a little sad today”, but every layer of every emotion they’ve had while making it.
You feel exactly what they felt.
The ability she’s suddenly burdened with (because it is a burden) is surreal, of course, but the situations it puts her in are very realistic.
It's so normal and so surreal at the same time.
Bender uses magical realism in a coming of age tale, as young (9) Rosie begins to taste emotions in her food, which can make it a bit tough to keep down a meal.
In addition, as her talent has given her unnatural insight, she becomes the keeper of her mother’s darkest secret.There is no inherent reason I am aware of that magical realism must remain a South American monopoly, or that it should be limited to stories of a particular sort.
Maybe I was unclear on whether or not Bender intended the magical element to be a stand-in for specific emotions.
Wow. Extremely disturbing and haunting.
On page 64 - "...The punching bag tucked inside every chocolate chip." Also on the next page when the sandwich is telling her to love it.
Chapter 20 - This page was the very first time it hit me that no one ever sent anything to the grandma.
I had to stop reading for awhile because it was so disturbing.
To me this book was about how people love each other differently, and how it's easy to shrug off the types of love that don't make sense or may not feel right, or are not enough or rational.
And the fact that he either seems to have no desire to actually live a life because he didn't get into college or he chooses to be a chair forever?
Well, have a nice life CHAIR in the closet of the restaurant.
Lame.Oh, and the dad doesn't go into hospitals but we still don't really know why nor do we really have any growth in him or any of the other characters.
This entire book is like one long wish for more explanation and a tons of her brother turning into furniture.
But instead we trade the rest of the world's one-dimensional perspective of the mother for the protagonist's equally un-enlightening two-dimensional understanding of her mother as cheerful on the surface, and "lost" underneath.
At the very end, after years of alternate emotional suffering and factory-made junkfood, the protagonist actually (finally!) begins to make her own food.
But the character doesn't get there until the very end of the story we read, and the cover closes just as she's beginning to possibly learn to do that - and after her supremely creepy brother has promised to only vanish into one chair, which she will keep in the closet, which I'm sure is symbolic of something too dark and sad to bother with.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWhen I looked at my friends' reviews for THE PARTICULAR SADNESS OF LEMON CAKE, I noticed that almost all of my friends who read it gave it negative reviews. After reading this book for myself, all I have to say is that this book proved to me that you can't always trust your friends. (Sorry, friends!) Reading is such a highly subjective experience, and what works for you doesn't always work for someone else (and vice-versa).After reading the
Unlike LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE, the main character, Rose, is a passive individual in the experience.
There's a scene close to the end that's probably my favorite part in the story, where Rose does a "food tasting" of a quiche, and man, I have never wanted a quiche as bad as I did then.If you enjoy stories of magic-realism and character driven stories that make you work for it a little, I think you'll like THE PARTICULAR SADNESS OF LEMON CAKE.
Ok, so she can taste people's feelings and exactly where the food came from.
I wish it would've only been people's feelings because i think the author takes an easy out with having Rose want to eat only highly processed foods because there is less human interaction.
This gives Rose an easy way to not deal with her problem.
I also thought the entire Joseph storyline was really weird.
Oh, your dad could smell people's feelings, i can taste people's feelings in food, that's nice.
I think this book was rushed and not fully developed.
1) It made me sad.
I was already pretty sad for a number of reasons and this book did not help.
Her brother is mentally and later physically absent from her life, her dad gives up, and her mother is an incredibly selfish, self-absorbed woman, and Rose suffers a lot of disappointment.2) It did not give me any closure.
There is not a single event in Rose's life (including her discovery of the French cafe with lovingly made food), that gives her any (seemingly) real happiness, nor does it give the reader fulfillment or catharsis.
This book is really very well written.
As she’s sitting in the kitchen, tasting the cake, Rose’s tasting buds start evolving and scarily make her able to taste her mother’s deep down feeling and emotions.
It turns out that from that day on, Rose can taste everyone’s feelings and emotions based on their food she’s eating.
However, I actually didn’t quite understand why we had to follow her over so many years for the story to move on - that’s one of the aspects that puzzled me a bit.
I’m not really sure I yet understand the overall meaning of the story, but it was fascinating and sweet and that’s good enough for me.
Ohhhhhh, so, so good! At nine, Rose bites into a piece of cake and discovers that she can taste the emotions of whomever made the food she is eating. I kind of felt like Rose while reading this book - I could feel the emotions of the characters, which made it an intense, moving, slightly overwhelming experience. I feel like I've been run over by an emotional tractor, but not in a bad way...just in that my-god-life-is-messy-and-beautiful-and-how-the-hell-do-we-make-sense-of-it kind of way. Phew. Now I want to go take a bath and cry and maybe eat some Doritos. Rose would approve.
However, I think a word is in order about the differing reaction among reviewers to this work.Aimee Bender's magical realism, the use of the fantastical to explore the depths of the human heart, belongs to a particular tradition of writing.
As with some of Bender's other works, she demonstrates a particular gift for capturing the voice of adolescents and showing us the world through their eyes.As I said, this is not a novel for everyone, but its poignancy and depth, as well as the talent of its extraordinary author, are beyond dispute.
Bender spent a lot of time building his character then it’s like she just lost interest.
It’s never explained (hide spoiler)] Maybe she’s setting us up for a sequel – fine, I’d read it.
It was good, just left me wanting something more…like a conclusive ending.“I'd stopped waving to passengers in cars by then- I'd grown suspicious of people and all the complications of interior lives- so I sat and watched and rode and thought, and as soon as the bus doors opened, we all rolled out the door and split apart like billiard balls.”
Bummer…I understand developing a novel around a girl’s ability to taste the emotions of people through food is a rather limited concept to develop, so this book would have been better served as a short story without the bizarre events involving Rose, Joseph, her mother and father and all sorts of nonsensical happenings that served as wasted fluff.When the story commences, Rose is turning nine years old and she realizes upon eating a lemon cake her mom made for her birthday that she can sense the sadness her mother was experiencing while baking the cake.
I think I could have been down with the book if Bender had limited the magic to Rose and her eating disorder; I liked how she didn't flinch from the extreme unpleasantness that ensued, and I liked the concept as a metaphor for the way that children must endure the pain of their parents' wounds.
And since giggling was NOT the aimed-at reaction, I think I will say: "Lemon Cake" got it only about half right for me; maybe I will like a future book by Bender better.
being a fan of magic realism, and of 'like water for chocolate', another book about emotion informing food and the course of an entire family's existence, i thought for sure i'd enjoy a book about a little girl who can taste people's emotions by eating the food they've prepared and how she copes with learning her loved one's deepest secrets...
i've read so much praise of this aimee bender person, i was utterly prepared to love this book, and then it just...
i understand its nitpicky, when the book involves certain magical elements, to expect the characters to act according to the rules of our real world...
Since I frequently get terribly frustrated with the self-indulgence, bitterness, and whimpering endings of a lot of literary fiction, these things are important to me.More importantly, in this book, the strengths of the genre shine.
Rose's mother is a free spirit who's lost in her tied-down world.
From there on, Rose's too-strong awareness of other people leads to a bubbly, friendly child gradually withdrawing, until she is forced to find her own way back out into the world.I loved Rose's observances and insightfulness.
when i first met aimee bender in a writing class at ucsd, she was the most magical yet misunderstood writer in the room. over two decades later, it's nice to see that nothing has changed. she is consistently original. i'd say that she writes like a lighter, equally offbeat, miniature version of tom robbins. except i don't really like robbins and i sure do like bender. go, aimee bender! go, ucsd!
I wanted to love love love this (and sometimes I even did), but 8 year-old Rose's narration (mucked up by no quotation marks) couldn't quite rise above the weirdness of her ability to intuit the emotion of the preparer of her meals. It reminded me a bit of Karen Russell (or at least the magical melancholy evoked in  Swamplandia! and some of her short stories). I really enjoyed, too, revisiting my old stomping grounds (Hollywood and Los Feliz in Southern California). Just wish  The Particular Sadness of Lemon Cake provided more sustenance beyond the quirk.
Viene finalmente alla luce, dopo i cinquant’anni di segreto di Stato imposti, il retroscena di quella che fino ad ora era sempre stata una frase banale , che sembrava ormai proprietà indiscussa delle nonne, vista la tendenza a non saper più mangiare..ecco insomma, finalmente si spiega la dietrologia della frase “Si vede che l’hai cucinato con amore”, e la Bender, cosa decide di fare?
Anzi, è proprio perché sto cercandole attenuanti, altrimenti non si spiega che dopo aver parlato di noi, svelando il mistero che lei sa, ci abbia abbandonato così, senza aver risolto niente, e si sia dedicata a parlare del fratello e di quei suoi poteri da strapazzo..
Okay, this book took a really weird turn for me about 3/4 of the way through. I was going along with it, enjoying the read, and liked the elements of tasting people in the food they prepared (even though I thought it could have been expressed a little better). But the last part is just plain weird. SPOILER:While I suspended my realistic nature for most of the book, when Joseph started becoming a chair, it lost me. It lost my trust and my favor. The writing was good. I liked the character. But this just was too much.
