https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409015.A_Brighter_Sun
This book gives a very informative and accurate account of the state and life in 1930s Trinidad caught between its colony past and a present monopolized by American military existance and the island's involvement in the second world war.Tiger is the main character of the story.
The story is of his struggles as a "man" and trying to make a living as well as understand life and what it means to him as he understands himself.From this book you learn of the many predujices in the beautiful island, be it race or class.
Set in Trinidad and Tobago during the Second World War, this novel aims both at painting a general picture of the economic, social and political facts of life of the time and period while also telling a smaller more intimate story about a handful of its residents in a forgotten village not far from Port of Spain.
I particularly liked the way in which Selvon repeatedly calls attention to the sun and the living earth as the constants of the life of these characters, compelling them to action, providing comfort, meaning,joy.
"What is to is must is."
An awesome book,filled with dreams and aspirations and how one often struggles to fulfill those dreams.The author chartered the development of the Protagonist in such a way that poverty as well as racism intertwined. The book tells us about a young boy who was at war with becoming a man, being able to read and rise from his current status in society...
Can't read. The devs of this app are idiot, in the fact that they don't let you read shit. What is the dam point of this site.
His thoughts, how he deals with marriage, working, a child that is not the preferred biological sex, sexual relations, friendship with racial divides and his path to maturity is well displayed.
Although the book hints that he regrets hitting his wife and accepting a child of any biological sex, I remained with the feeling he did not really understand that it was wrong or the ramifications of it.
Some of the issues Tiger dealt with are sadly still present day issues like domestic violence, the preference for a male child, racial divisions, social inequalities and sexual ignorance.
who are the characters in chapter six
This is another of the novels I would turn to, when I was homesick and studying abroad. I absolutely love Samuel Selvon's voice. he reminds me of warm days on Maracas beach and eating mango and plum chow on the back steps with my cousins during the long August holidays. This is a coming to adult tale of two people bound by tradition and trying to make it on their own, in an unfamilar neighbourhood.
One of my favorite class assigned reads
Title: A Brighter SunAuthor: Samuel SelvonPublisher: LongmanPages: 215Challenge: Caribbean writers Challenge 2011Rating: 5 starsSummary:The overall theme can be summed up in three phrases; “the journey from adolescence to adulthood”, “The Loss of Innocence”, and “The Quest and acquisition of knowledge”.The story is set during the turbulent midst of the 2nd World War and centered on the lives of two young Indian peasants forced into marriage and trying to find their way through adulthood in Trinidad.
It began with Tiger, young, surprised and naive, trying to prove that he is a man and is independent.
I think this book is very interesting as it shows the new experiences and challenges of a young boy that got married at the age of sixteen years old due to an arranged marriage which he knew nothing about until the day of his wedding, He was trying to learn new things of becoming a man, and this young girl trying to carry on the new processes of life as they both faced challenges of living on their own and learning new things about adult life as they go on.
An interesting tale of the growth of a young Indian married couple and their creole neighbour couple told in a colourful language of personification, forshadowing, metaphor etc. It is a history of Trinidad's transition from predominantly agriculture to the Service and Construction economy with a succinct look at the effects on the people.
This book sums up the experience of growing up in the Caribbean. Discovering your identify amidst cultural division and carving out a life in the midst of challenges. I read this book in high school but it has always stayed in my mind. If you can get past the broken english dialect.It is a good book.
Oh this book was wonderfully written. It was raw as the characters were easy to relate to being a Trinidadian myself, it was comical and heart wrenching. At the end I was very proud of "Tiger", the protagonist, and his attitude toward change and growing up. Great book.
The many short stories, both in the Caribbean and English setting offered my first glimpse into the work of a Trinidadian author and kindled somewhat of an obsession with local and regional content. Impeccably written, it makes for easy reading and the nostalgic feeling of home.
Required reading in HS
Read this long ago for school and I remember really enjoying it.
I love this book!
Sam Selvon's tale about life in Trinidad in the 1930s
I read this when I was about 15 for a high school lit class. It's an interesting glimpse into the past and the cultural divides in Trinidad and Tobago at the time. Not exceptional but a good read.
In this novel, people have sex on old bags, in huts. I think that was one of the most important points related.
good
It a good book
Did this book in school for Literature. Fun, emotional, and interesting book. How things were in the old days.
very interesting book
i love this book
