https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196742.Under_a_Cruel_Star
I have read many many accounts of life during the War and in the Concentration Camps but this particular Memoir picqued my interest when I learned that Heda was born in Prague of Jewish ancestry, survived the concentration camps and the death march to make her wasy back to Prague to learn that she was the only member of her family to survive the war.The book concentrates mostly on the details of growing communism among many Czechoslovaks after the war and what they had hoped for in a better life turned out to be a nightmare.I loved this no nonsense story and the author's direct approach.
You never really know by simply reading the blurb describing the book, as Buddha's Orphans made so very clear!This is a memoir about the Czech author's experiences through the WW2 and the political turmoil in Czechoslovakia following the war, before the Russian occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
However, any attempt to read the book following the time line of her war experiences is hopeless.
(This isn't a problem; the reader is told later in the book!) The author states very clearly that, "I was more interested in what was happening around me in the present, among the people I loved, than in the foggy spheres of ideology."(page 65).
Testimonio biográfico. Denuncia política. Clase de historia magistral. Esa clase de libro del que aprendes más que con cualquier manual de historia.
It's especially unfair when you've read her book 4+ times.
The first time I read this book, I loved it beyond words.
Yet something always tugged at me a little, something I couldn't articulate until I read it a few more times.Revised 2/17/16 For me, the memoir would have worked better if Kovaly had given a fuller picture of her life during the early days of Communist Czechoslovakia.
But in a book by someone who consistently applauds truth, Kovaly is silent about one very important truth: not everyone in postwar Czechoslovakia joined the Communist party, and many of them paid dearly for it.
this is the short version...you can find the longer one here.Kovály's memoir covers a span of time from 1941 to 1968, from when the Nazis began to deport Jews from Prague (and the author found herself first in the Lodz ghetto and then Auschwitz) until just prior to arrival of Soviet troops in Czechoslovakia, after a very brief Prague Spring.
You can read it as an understanding of how the best of idealistic intentions can often result in a nightmare, and it is also reveals how totalitarianism affected everyday, average people who, because of the need to survive in an atmosphere of complete fear, often felt compelled to choose self-interest over the welfare of fellow human beings.
But when at last the train burst out in the glorious sunshine, all you saw was a wasteland full of weeds and stones, and a heap of garbage.”Heda Margolius Kovaly survives WWII only to find herself in Communist post-war Prague.
It is always painful to read about people who survived the war and particularly the camps only to suffer so much more under communist regimes.
I wonder in moments if that isn't her way of sharing something she's learned about finding beauty in life even when it would be so easy to be taken over by the pain of it.
However,the events are real and not only did Mrs Kovaly endure persecution as a Jew during the Second World War, she was also caught up in the years of the Communist rule in post-war Czechosolvakia.I knew little of this era and for me this part of Mrs Kovaly's story is even more painful to read as the Czech people's hopes for a better future following the war were cruelly dashed by the Communists and their regime of fear.
Whilst the subject is very upsetting and painful to read about, Mrs Kovaly's strength of character and emotional courage shine through and I find her story a very inspiring one.
Narración autobiográfica de los horrores del Fascismo y el Comunismo que sufrió la población checa. Dolorosa y brutal, no duda en ofrecernos todo el sufrimiento, la violencia y la destrucción innata a ambos modelos.Imprescindible.
Un sistema político que no puede funcionar sin mártires es un sistema político malo y destructivo.Heda Margolius Kovaly observó cómo los alemanes invadían su Checoslovaquia natal y mataban a toda su familia por su condición racial, obligándole a esconderse para sobrevivir; cómo el gobierno comunista de su propio país encarcelaba, criminalizaba, humillaba y asesinaba a su marido; y cómo tanto conocidos como desconocidos la repudiaban tanto a ella como a su hijo.Bajo una estrella cruel es el testimonio de una mujer que sobrevivió al totalitarismo nazi alemán para vivir bajo el terror comunista de tipo estalinista de la República Socialista Checoslovaca.
It follows the life of the author, a Jewish woman living in Prague, from the Nazi era through the unsuccessful uprising against Soviet rule in 1968.
But the most fascinating aspect of the book is its exploration of how these events affected the attitudes and ideals of the Czech people with whom the author interacts -- e.g., the extent of the fear generated by Nazi rule and the effect of that fear on interpersonal relations, the initial embrace of communism as a reaction to Nazi oppression, the susceptibility of the public to manipulation by the communist power structure and the reprise of fear and prejudice as controlling aspects of personal interactions.
Do not read this book in public.
This a is phenomenal personal memoir about the human and political experience of a Jewish girl at the tail end of WWII and the beginning of the Communist rule in Prague.
It was poignant and very educational in a nonacademic way.
This book made me understand the human condition that existed in Czech that enabled it to go from occupation by Germany in WWII to Communist rule, something that is almost unfathomable to Americans.
Even without the educational aspect, the story itself is magnificent and well worth the few hours it takes to devour it.
Recommended by T. Judt. Excellent short volume by Czech Jew who recounts her life from deportation from Prague by Nazis- she escaped while on the way to concentration camp- until her escape from Prague in 1968 after Soviet invasion. During the years in between her husband Rudolf reached the post of Deputy Minister of Trade was accused of treason in 1952, convicted and hanged. Author lost job, house and health and suffered life as a pariah until thaw of early 1960s. This was when Rudolf was exonerated as well. Estimable life sharply told in 190 pages.
The horrific life that Heda Margolius Kovaly lived, first in the concentration camps and then under the Communist regime in Prague is very nearly too much to be borne.
She should be railing like a lunatic against every aspect of her life but she doesn't.
She found her childhood sweetheart, married and had a baby, just as the Communist regime was hitting it's stride.
Her husband, a high ranking Communist official, was arrested, tortured, and executed, only to have his sentence commuted ten years later.
Such a remarkable life.
Un libro que a la vez que impacta te atrapa desde el primer momento. Uno de los mejores libros que he leído últimamente. Es un libro que habla de a lucha por la supervivencia frente a la barbarie nazi y comunista y los horrores que ambos sistemas ideológicos provocaron. Bueno es leer este tipo de libros para no olvidar la maldad que sufrieron tantos seres humanos a causa del totalitarismos. Muy recomendable.
This is an absolute must read!
Pro někoho,kdo, i když se za to šíleně stydí, o historii své země neví zrovna moc, znamenala takhle knížka víc, než jenom poohlédnutí se za tím, co bylo.
O koncentračních táborech jsem toho z knih věděla víc, než bych asi chtěla, ale dál jsem se nikdy nedostala.
Vím, že tady nějací ti komunisti někdy byli a že jsme se neměli nejlépe, ale nevěděla jsem, jaké to bylo mezi lidmi a myslím si, že lépe než z výpovědi někoho, kdo si tím sám prošel, to pochopit nejde.
Abych kvůli tomu měla ještě víc nepříjemností, než předtím?Je šílené, co se dělo a co režim udělal s lidmi po válce.
The Irish side was talked about more within the family, but I recently learned my great-great-grandparents came to America from Austro-Hungary in 1867.
What was life like in Cuba, Kansas for Bohemian immigrants...?
As they say 'Youth is wasted on the young', I never thought to ask these questions and now it's too late.I am now relying on books to help quench my desire to learn more about the Czech Republic (Austria-Hungary, then Czechoslovakia and now Czech Rep).
I am now reading 'My Antonia', a fictional story about a Bohemian family that moved into a sod house on a farm in Nebraska.
Così come il vuoto creato attorno alle famiglie degli imputati dei processi farsa deve spaventare ben più di questi ultimi.
Il libro ci porta a riflettere su come ci saremmo comportati noi davanti al terrore e a prendere atto che avremmo fatto altrettanto, forse peggio.
Del resto è l'autrice stessa a ricordarci, senza presunzione ma con grande umanità, che "se tutti fossero eroi, che valore avrebbe il coraggio?".
Per fortuna lei di coraggio ne ha, tanto da mostrarci l'alternativa impossibile: non vivere nella menzogna, non cedere alla paura e non arrendersi nemmeno davanti alla morte.
This book was a punch in the gut.
Ms. Kovály suffered the perfect storm of injustice and terror, from her tenure at Auschwitz, to being rejected by even her closest friends upon her escape and return to Prague in the final weeks of WWII, to her husband's false conviction and very real execution at the hands of the Communists, and subsequent (and second) rejection by all her friends, employers, even doctors.
It paints a nice, personal account of just how the Communists drew support in the early days following the war.
Finished this wonderful, terrifying book in one sitting.
Una vita raccontata in poco più di duecento pagine. E che vita: scappata da un campo di concentramento durante la Seconda Guerra mondiale, Heda è stata vittima del comunismo stalinista che le ha portato via il marito, viceministro al commercio della Cecoslovacchia degli anni Cinquanta. Accanto a una testimonianza di prima mano e alla riflessione sul senso di una società, questo memoir talvolta si illumina di frasi e pagine che smuovono sentimenti profondi dell'essere umani e forza il lettore a una riflessione sulla propria esistenza.
This is a great historical book with a lot of heart behind it. Heda Kovaly writes her autobiography about the years of her life in which she survived a concentration camp and Stalinist communism in her country. Her story is fascinating and heartfelt without crossing over into sappy territory. It gives a very in-depth look at what everyday life was like under these circumstances as well as exploring the ideologies and attitudes that lead to these situations.
This memoir gives the personal experiences of a woman who spent much of her adult life enslaved by the two most destructive politic forces of the 20th Century, Fascism and Communism. It is filled with tragedy as well as lessons which all people and nations must not forget. I would recommend this book to anyone, but particularly to individuals interested in daily life in a communist country.
After reading this NYT obit of Heda Kovaly (whom I'd never heard of), I knew I just had to read this book. The first chp alone will blow your ears off. Thought I was burned out on Holocaust Lit, but this one quickly changed my mind, and besides, it covers K's life post-war, as well.http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/09/boo...
4.5 starsAnyone wanting to read more about communism imposed in Czech Republic should read this! It’s a wonderful, heart wrenching story about how people survive the worst acts of humanity. More professors and teacher should be using this book alongside Anne Frank to teach students about WWII and what came after.
An eclectic mixture of genuine personal tragedy and superficial liberal ideology.
La dignità della scrittura di questa donna mi ha colpito e affondato. Un libro che continua, mesi dopo averlo finito, a farmi ragionare e commuovere.
"Se ogni inizio è doloroso, l'inizio del dolore è il più doloroso di tutti." (p. 11)
Kovály tells in beautiful prose and succinct phrasing the story of her life in Prague, beginning with her assignment to a work detail in a concentration camp (and subsequent escape), and ending with the glorious victory of her much-loved country over Russian rule.
Spanning the gamut of both Hitler's and Stalin's murderous forced rules of her homeland, Kovály's story is not a plea for pity or sorrow, but merely a determined effort to not allow anyone to forget.
Having never read a word about Stalin's rule of Czechoslovakia prior to this book, I was fascinated, shocked, disheartened, and angered by this story, also recognizing it as only one version of the truth.
Under a Cruel Star: Life in Prague 1941-1968 by Heda Margolius Kovaly is not just an insightful memoir but a gut wrenching as well.History has a weird way of writing itself.
Heda Margolius Kovaly also writes about one such period in the history of Prague.
She explains how the Nazi regime affected the people and why they were always ready to sacrifice themselves for communism, to bring about a change in society.I can`t recommend this book enough even though it is not easy to read.
The evil of the Holocaust is well-known, familiar, unambiguous.
Kovaly, a concentration camp survivor and escapee from a death march, makes only a brief tour of this episode from her life (although that glimpse is terrible enough).
Living under fascist occupation has changed her fellow citizens and the creeping influence of the Soviet virus infects all facets of life.
This is a disturbing book and despite its relatively upbeat ending left me more depressed than ever about our current political situation as state and corporate power merge to exert ever greater control over our personal lives.
