https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25955.The_Medium_is_the_Massage
Ezra Pound said poetry was really about capturing images (and written text, we often forget, is a visual medium, not really an aural one), but this obsession with images seems to reach its peak with television.The book and the framed picture were interesting moments in the technological development of human culture – prior to the book (as made available by Herr Gutenberg) there really weren’t what we would today call ‘authors’.
They are there because the site is able to make a lot of money by using OUR goodwill and turning into cash.I wonder if there is anybody else out there, offended by an ad that lets you get in touch with desperate Thai girls, or inyourface hamburger ads, and would like to do something about it?I've never solicited votes before except for fun, but I would now seriously like to solicit votes for this review on the basis that it is a serious issue and I would like to fight it and I hope others might too.I am a member of sites where they at least give you the choice of paying extra so as not to have advertising in your face and I for one would greatly appreciate this option.
The ideas are genius and brilliant and groundbreaking even today, but the graphic design element felt a little messy and random to me, and at time the writing would get superfluous. Much recommended, though, to learn about this important process of thought! Also, it's super super quick!
The smartphone is basic tech compared to what's in your pocket until you realize when it was built.When I first heard of McLuhan using the term Global Village, I had a perplexing and nonsensical image of all people around the world living in grass huts and somehow holding hands and singing Kumbaya.
It wasn't until I leafed through the images in The Medium is the Massage that it hit me that my thinking was so entrenched in old patterns, it couldn't process McLuhan's futurist ideas of the technologies that would transform not just how we interact but how those technologies transform us from consumers into being part of the machinery.Anyone writing a review such as this, a blog or a tweet becomes the medium.
Classic pop-theoretical discourse (via kinetic typography and image) on the effects of changing media in the 20th century. Prescient. Perhaps as relevant in today's hyperconnectivity as in the television era of its conception. And with a kind of ambivalence of value that seems appropriate: once technology changes, there's no going back and it may be more useful to "inventory the effects" than to judge or decry.
อานเลมนีในปี 2018 กคงจะชาและเชยไปหนอยสำหรับนักเรียนสายสือ (เลมนีเปนผลงานคลาสสิกทีพิมพตังแต 1960s) แตเรากรูสึกบันเทิงและอานรวดเดียวจบ เพราะมันประกอบดวยตัวอักษรนิดหนอยสลับภาพประกอบ ทีเปนลูกเลนตางๆ (ตามคอนเซปตหนังสือ) ถึงจะเชยแตกทำใหคิดทบทวนการงานของตัวเองอยูเหมือนกัน
อ่านเล่มนี้ในปี 2018 ก็คงจะช้าและเชยไปหน่อยสำหรับนักเรียนสายสื่อ (เล่มนี้เป็นผลงานคลาสสิกที่พิมพ์ตั้งแต่ 1960s) แต่เราก็รู้สึกบันเทิงและอ่านรวดเดียวจบ เพราะมันประกอบด้วยตัวอักษรนิดหน่อยสลับภาพประกอบ ที่เป็นลูกเล่นต่างๆ (ตามคอนเซปต์หนังสือ) ถึงจะเชยแต่ก็ทำให้คิดทบทวนการงานของตัวเองอยู่เหมือนกัน
For a book published 5o years ago, this short book has aged very well (beyond a few references to the technology of the times). Still can't believe that we didn't read this in my graduate program, since so many authors name dropped McLuhan.
So this is one of those books where I always say the wrong title (like the deluze book I always claim is about platypuses [or platypi as it maybe]).
The mass audience assumes that all people have the same exposures and encourages group thinking on public forums and such.
visual culture allowed for privacy, you could go home and read a book have small families, technology no longer allows for that we are constantly on show, he connects this to the problem that private guilt no longer exists only the effect of circumstance.
He sees media's future - the integrated circuit, and talks about how this is the next step.He talks about how Gutenberg's printing press made an entity known as the public, and expanded from there.McLuhan as Nostradamus  Jennifer Wright noted in  Get Well Soon: History's Worst Plagues and the Heroes Who Fought Them that Nostradamus had no magic to his prophecies, at least not in the standard sense.She argues that Nostradamus was just an incredibly intelligent, educated, open-minded and forward thinking individual.
I read the book: The Medium is the Massage by Marshall McLuhan and Quentin Fiore.
It has many images, text is flipped, broken, larger, smaller; the book itself a metaphor for the evolution of the medium.
It's brilliance, and if you pretend as you read that you are in the 60s and extrapolate from the basic theses of this book, its prescience is unnerving.
Basically, the medium is the mAssage because it is shaping how we perceive our world, how we experience and make sense of our world.
His mom was a member of Womens' Strike for Peace, his sister was the best friend of the girl I hankered for, his father tolerated us all.
The Erickson home was a major hangout for many of us, friends of Ed, his sister and mother.
Through them I was introduced to Leonard Cohen, Kurt Vonnegut and much popular music.One of the many books Ed lent me to read was McLuhan's The Medium is the Massage.
Being mostly graphics, it was a very quick read.
Indeed, I think I read it at his place in under an hour.
Written in the late 1960s, much of this book uncannily feels like it's directly addressing the massive changes wrought by the internet. McLuhan's cautious optimism may feel out of step with our moment, but replace "global village" with "global tribalism" and this book could've been ripped from the headlines. Visionary and then some.
: thinking :
Selvää pässin lihaa
Like he regularly says that technology is making the world more connected and social yet the reality is that things haven't changed much in that respect and if anything we've become *more* atomised - the reams of analysis about neoliberalism bear this out.
A strange bond often exists among anti-social types in their power to see environments as they really are." Very unpleasant "sheeple" style talk, no reason at all to believe this really.I really think humour actually works to reinforce existing prejudices - it's generally done before thought, based on your pre-existing ideas."Formerly, the problem was to invent new forms of labor-saving.
I have no idea what this book is about
It's kind of along the same lines as Jean Baudrillard and Alvin Toffler in that it tries to predict how our world is being shaped by technological developments.
The writing itself is simple enough to digest; you won't really need any background in the Big Philosophers to understand the point McLuhan's trying to get across.The really awesome thing is that he wrote this in 1967, and his predictions are just now starting to ring awesomely true!
It also perfectly reflects recent technologies like SmartPhones and iPads.The other weird thing about the book is that McLuhan is surprisingly optimistic in an area where most people are either pessimistic or scared.
In this interesting little book, McLuhan explains that "electric technologies" (it was published in 1967) will change collective perception and will encourage increased participation in the world and thus, we will become a global village inherently connected and involved.
Also, this is an extremely visual piece of work with a mixture of graphics, photographs, illustrations, and quotations accompanying and emphasizing McLuhan's ideas.
It is not."Print technology created the public.
The new technology demands that we abandon the luxury of this posture, this fragmentary outlook.""At the high speeds of electric communication, purely visual means of apprehending the world are no longer possible; they are just too slow to be relevant or effective."
Its use fostered and encouraged the habit of perceiving all environment in visual and spatial terms—particularly in terms of a space and of a time that are uniform, c,o,n,t,i,n,u,o,u,s and c-o-n-n-e-c-t-e-d.”“Until WRITING was invented, man lived in acoustic space: boundless, directionless, horizonless, in the dark of the mind, in the world of emotion {, by primordial intuition, by terror.
Our technology forces us to live mythically, but we continue to think fragmentarily, and on single, separate planes.”“We employ visual and spatial metaphors for a great many everyday expressions.
There are prophets among us in these times. While not foreseeing the hardware used in the transition, McLuhan did imagine the changes in the way we approach situations and process information (that is, in a linear vs. non-linear manner). When I first encountered the internet, this book came to mind immediately, although it had been quite a few years since I first read it. It's an invaluable aid to understanding some of the changes occurring in the emerging "global village."
Fassinerend - sommige dele klink of dit gistermiddag geskryf is.
Amazing that I did not get around to reading this classic before!
But better late than never and it is shocking.
Published in 1967 I dare you to find any book whose vision to such an extent heralds and encompasses our current struggles with adapting culture to the speed of digital.
Sure McLuhan deals with the 'electrical' media of his time, but his clear analysis makes it easy to extrapolate to the digital age.
His insistence that electrical media forces us to live mythically even taps into the current wave of behavioral economics and our struggle with cognitive dissonance when outpaced by digital information.
"In the name of 'progress' our official culture is striving to force the new media to do the work of the old.'Ik zou het hele boek kunnen citeren, maar dat zou het plezier van het lezen teniet doen. McLuhan was zijn tijd mijlenver vooruit en maakt The Medium is the Massage verplichte kost voor iedereen die geïnteresseerd is in beeldcultuur, televisie of het internet.
in questo libro ci sono riflessioni così avanti sui tempi da lasciare stupiti.
I was really bummed when I found this because the titular pun had come to me on the toilet about a month earlier, and I could no longer be proud of my presumed invention.
I hate it when my review is above the global average but, come on! MCLUHAN!"There is absolutely no inevitability as long as there is a willingness to contemplate what is happening."
Bingo!
Interesting but like in the same way that going to a modern art museum is interesting. The book itself is a piece of art, let alone the message it is trying to stimulate.
I think the book's thesis applies even better to the internet.The thesis is pretty obvious, as the title states: medium does affect our perceptions.Some quotes:The shock of recognition!
In an electric information environment, minority groups can no longer be contained—ignored.
Our new environment compels commitment and participation.
https://imgur.com/a/cN6Q0WhThe "child" was an invention of the seventeenth century; he did not exist , say, Shakespeare's day.
Today's child is growing up absurd, because he lives in two worlds, and neither of them inclines him to grow up.
Growing up—that is our new work, and it is total.
Honestly you need the physical book for this.
