https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15767100-the-cats-of-copenhagen
This is a literary lark thatspins with the absurdity of all --all while teasing the moon, oh, and it holds my favorite caricatureof a relaxed James Joyce.This book was first a letter written and mailed by Joyce,to his only grandson Stephen, while James Joyce was hanging out in Zealand and Amager.This letter is a prose poem, a child's story, penned by an already literary God to his only earthy grandson, now executor, on an August day in 1936.
19 sentences of jocular feline witticism with an anarchistic touch cat lover Joyce sent his grandson from Denmark in 1936 (instead of a sweet-stuffed cat). Its smooth pertness and subtle tackling of authorities one can do without represent a charming read, a few minutes of delight.
Very similar to The Cat and the Devil, this is highly recommended! Joyce thought the world of cats, this was quite evident in the first chapter of Ulysses, in which the very first conversation is between a hungry feline and the kind-hearted protagonist.Both works are beautiful.
A children's book by James Joyce!
Yes, THAT James Joyce, author of Ulysses and Dubliners, one of the greatest authors of all time!
This book is one of two children's books that give Joyce authorship credit, created from letters he wrote to his grandson and random writings, later in his life, probably not intended for publication, culled from a box of his letters and some random writings found in 2006.
Once Joyce had sent his grandson a toy cat stuffed with candy.
It helps to humanize the great and enigmatic author of Ulysses and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Makes him likeable.
Better than the Eliot cat book?Probably not as better than the Theroux kiddie books.But.http://www.brainpickings.org/index.ph...
I'm not quite what I thought this would be. But I wasn't expecting it to be this. It's actually quite funny, even for adults.
Took me 5 minutes to read. Whimsical and delightful.
James Joyce'un torununa Kopenhag'dan yazdığı bir mektup kitaplaştırılmış. Bir çocuk kitabı olmasından öte satır aralarında bir başkaldırı hissediliyor.
The story is pure Joyce: a fascinating, quirky and highly condensed political satire in the Swiftian mode, written for adults and children.
The first edition published by Ithys Press of Dublin, Ireland (Feb 2012) is expertly handset and letterpress printed by Michael Caine in an expressive array of late 19th and early 20th Century typefaces and is illustrated with highly inventive pen-and-ink drawings by Casey Sorrow.
The Scribner/Simon&Schuster edition (Oct 2012) is an attractive small-format trade hardcover, published by arrangement with Ithys Press, featuring the Michael Caine's typography and Casey Sorrow's illustrations, plus two new drawings for the dustjacket.
More info here:Ithys Press edition: http://ithyspress.wordpress.com/title...Scribner edition: http://books.simonandschuster.com/Cat...
A children's book from Joyce? Yes. Wonderful and strange; buttermilk, cigars and all. The language is briefly Joycean, of course!The illustrations are playfully bizarre, but modern sensibilities might want to avoid normalizing smoking and so keep this one for the completionist in the family. For me, it's more about keeping a clean copy away from grubby hands.
A short little read from a letter Joyce wrote to his grandson, Stephen. He begins: "Alas! I cannot send you a Copenhagen cat because there are no cats in Copenhagen." In a playful fashion, Joyce proceeds to tell a short story that can be enjoyed by children and critically analyzed by adults as a commentary on tyranny. The illustrations are fun, too, especially the one representing Joyce himself.
Knížka samo o sobě je skvělá, navíc tím, že každá jazyková mutace má svébytnou grafiku, typografii, práci s barvou i formátem. Já českou mutaci téhle knížku dělám pro edici NOS (AlbatrosMedia) a nemůžu se nepochlubit reakcí majitele autorských práv: It looks marvelous! Congratulations!Anastasia HerbertITHYS PRESSAvalonStrawberry BedsDublin 20, IrelandTo potěší.
I read this while I was having lunch today and was literally laughing out loud. It's so wonderfully quirky, funny, and charming. I loved it! The illustrations are fantastic, which is a nice bonus. This is the perfect remedy for the doldrums.
Ulysses'i okumanın ve anlamanın zor olduğunu söylerlerdi de ne kadar zor olabilir ki diye düşünürdüm. James Joyce'un aslen torununa yazdığı bu hikayeyi okuyunca duyduklarım doğru olabilir diye düşünmeye başladım. Oradan oraya savrulan, hikaye olmayan bir hikaye. Ulysses'i de okumanın zamanı geldi sanırım artık.
I cannot send you a Copenhagen cat because there are NO cats in Copenhagen." Originally a letter to Joyce's grandson, The Cats of Copenhagen was only recently discovered, and this marks its first publication.
The dozen or so quirky, modern illustrations accompanying Joyce's lines do great job enlivening the comedy and filling out the book (which would otherwise have been too bare and overpriced, I'm afraid).I worry that some will want to look for and say profound things about this little work--how strong the prose, how tight and self-conscious the plot, this or that about the Swiftian mode--but that would be pretentious and miss the point.

A charming and odd little book with fantastic illustrations and typesetting and a strange story, very thought-provoking. One of a kind! Makes me want to finally sit down this winter and read Ulysses. This is a VERY short little story. Even for a kids' book, it's short. But it's like nothing else you'll have in your library!
A very strange book. One of James Joyce's 2 books for young children written for his grandson. Both grandfather and grandson shared an affinity for cats.However, this book doesn't make much sense. Cats, mice, policecats, mice on bikes delivering mail...Huh...
So weird, but I couldn't help buying it when I was in Dublin. :-)
There isn't a lot to this, but I doubt it was ever intended to by published. Still, the illustrations are amusing and it is nice to be able to finish a work by Joyce in 5 mins :)
What a gorgeous quirky little book. It's delightfully nonsensical in the manner that the target audience would love and at the same time deliciously conspiratorial and subversive. I had no idea that this book even existed so I was thrilled to be able to get hold of a copy.
My husband loved it! Enjoyed reading it to our kids.
Are the illustrations at odds with the meaning of the book, or am I reading this wrong?
My first James Joyce! I know, I know. Start small, work up to the bigger books.Anywho, I know nothing of the political situation where he was at the time this was written, so the satire falls flat. Fortunately the story itself is fun enough to entertain anyway.The illustrations are hilarious and the typesetting is very unique and fits the the illustrations and the story well. I actually likes the typesetting better than the illustrations.I was somehow expecting more book for the price though.
Interesting to note that in their later days Joyce and Eliot both gravitated toward cat-themed works for children. Feline-themed satires for family. I'm not a fan of either, but that this is too short to adapt into a musical is surely a few points in its favor. Who knows, maybe we'll discover something by Pound that'll confirm that he was a "cat that walk[ed] by himself" but will toss out the "unsafe for children" part.Casey Sorrow's illustrations are great.
The illustrations by Casey Sorrow really make this children's book stand out. A kind of creepy mixed with whimsical that lends an appropriate tone to this children's book. The typesetting, while unique, smacks a bit too much of Microsoft WordArt to really be appreciated.
Groots noch grandioos verhaal, maar geestig is het wel. Eenvoudig, open van geest en absurd, met illustraties die met hun interpretaties de absurditeit van de tekst alleen maar onderstrepen. Een klein feestje.
This book only consists of about 15 sentences. I recommend it to anyone who truly loves James Joyce and wants to read up on his lesser writings. *I received the book for free through Goodreads First Reads.
Everything about this book was charming, especially the story behind it.
Cute, in a stark, slightly ironical way.
