https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1055618.Faith_Precedes_the_Miracle
President Kimball wrote this book in stories and examples to help us understand the many different ideas and concepts of faith, and how we can use it in our life. I recommend this book as an excellent tool to help understand faith, and how it applies in our lives.
We must have faith in Him and trust in Him. Here are a few of my favorite quotes/ideas from this time reading through:"Faith is needed as much as ever before (page 10).""If revelations cease, either men are unresponsive and in the darkness of apostasy or God is dead (p.
Paul asked that we pray 'for kings, and for all that are in authority.' This will help develop loyalty to community leaders and concern for the Lord's influence on them.
202).""Pray in faith....there can be no deception.
There are miracles as we have faith in Him and His power in our lives.
I wanted to read this book because of a brother in my ward who had an enormous health challenge and after re-reading this book (and a lifetime of dedicated faith no doubt) did receive his amazing healing miracle.
It so impressed me that I finally decided to read it after nearly 40 years since joining the LDS Church.
It is based on his discourses, which means that I had heard or read many portions of this book over the years.
I didn't learn anything new but this book reinforced that indeed, faith must precede the miracle.
It takes steady and committed spiritual preparation and a lot of faith.
Kimball, the 12th President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is known for his bold and forward speaking and writing style.
Talmage is a good example of what I'm referring to.Having said that, there is plenty to love in Faith Precedes the Miracle.
It's a great reference book since President Kimball covers so many topics in this one book.
I had already listened to many of President Kimball's talks and, therefore, I was 're-leaning' large portions of the book.
Faith Precedes the Miracle is great as a reference but not as a stand-alone book." http://thethousanderclub.blogspot.com/
After reading this book I wish I could remember Spencer W.
It served as a great reminder that faith is such an important principle of the Gospel of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
I loved how he went through so many aspects of the Gospel explaining how faith was so important to each and every part.I would have given it 5 stars, but at the very end he went on a little soap box about Native American's.
It is a great reminder of the gospel's core principles.
I would also encourage any new convert to the church to read this book.
The first chapter of this book delves immediately into the religious aspects of asking God for a miracle, and the role faith has in such a request.We are immediately taken into the Old Testament and shown examples of prophet showing their faith before receiving their miracle.
Kimball points out that it wasn't until Abraham showed his faith in the Lord by placing Isaac upon the altar before the angel appeared as well as the ram in the thicket.Not only does this work cover the topic of faith, but prayer, obedience, marriage, prejudice, and more.
At fist I had the thought that some things really do not apply to "today's society", most of these selections were written/given from the 1950's to the 1970's; however, gospel truth is eternal truth.
but like the title indicates, Faith and obedience to all that is true whether we like it or not, is what brings the miracles.
It is a sampling of stories and examples where living the true commandments brings forth the type of faith that then results in the miracle.
It would take a lot of faith to live as President Kimball suggests.
I felt that some of the chapters were put together strangely, bounced around from topic to topic, and were hard to follow.
It was mostly in the first few chapters and I almost gave up reading the book altogether.
There were a few chapters in the middle that I enjoyed immensely and found myself marking something on almost every page.
I had felt compelled to read this book and not give up before I was through and I definitely found messages that spoke specifically to me and things that I have been thinking about recently.
Very great read. It's kind of like the Priesthood/Relief Society manuals on the Presidents of the Church in that each chapter is a compilation of his words on a particular topic. I really enjoyed it, and appreciated his insights. My one complaint is that I read it because of the title, and the title ended up having very little to do with what it was actually about. Still very glad I read it, though.
Considering her obsession about miracles and such (and telling me that faith is not a part of it), I really think this book would benefit. And all the other principles covered would be helpful, too. I may have to consider buying my own audio copy so she can listen and not wait upon someone to read it to her. I've wanted to read it for myself anyhow.
was a really good book. basically a collection of the discourses of SWK.. a little bit outdated (one chapter was about how we shouldn't hate against the native americans and another one was on the issue of blacks not being able to hold the priesthood), but overall, a fantastic read. my second time reading it! :)
This took me a long time to work my way through, but I liked it a lot. As always with Pres. Kimball he just lays it right out there, doesn't beat around the bush about what we're supposed to be doing. And it never ceases to amaze me how even though his (and other apostles) writings were decades ago, they seem so perfectly applicable today.
Sequel to Spencer W. Kimball's seminal work, The Miracle of Forgiveness. Based on some of his writings and sermons, he addresses topics such as family, marriage, testimony, personal revelation, and morality. Through it all runs the thread of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
I enjoyed this book, however I was expecting another book like "The Miracle of Forgiveness". This book is a collection of talks given by Spencer W. Kimball. Although all the talks are good I was disapointed that it wasn't one solid book.
I liked it. I was surprised at the continuity-- I was expecting the regular compilation but it seemed to flow really well. Of course, if you've read/listened to his previous works you might find some repetition. But it had been a while so it didn't bother me.
Loved this book. I can tell it was used to compile much of the "Teachings of our Times, Spencer W. Kimball" There were many things in the book I'd read and studied over the last year. A must read for everyone at an appropriate time in life.
This feels like it came directly out of Pres. Kimball's personal scripture journal. It's full of citations from scripture and other personal accounts. Pres. Kimball is very straightforward and methodical in his approach towards the subjects of faith, love, and discipleship.
President Kimball is an amazing man, and I love how straight forward he is in his council. There were so many different areas of the gospel this book touches on, it's one you can refer to again and again.
I love President Kimball's forthright way of telling it like it is. This is a collection of his talks, which I didn't realize before I started reading it. I thought it'll all be on building faith, but it progressed through several different topics.
I first read this book as a senior in high school. I learned so much about faith. At the time, Elder Kimball was in the Quorum of the Twelve, but when he became the Prophet, I felt as if I knew him because of the insights that he gave in this book. I highly recommend reading it.
I was expecting this book to be different. I was looking forward to reading a book about Faith, but alas...I only got one chapter. It should have been named Thoughts On Various Subjects by Spencer W. Kimball. It is not that I disagreed with what he wrote, it was just that I learned nothing new.
This book, the words of the sharp-tongued, sugar-free prophet Spencer W. Kimball changed my life. If you are looking for an overview of why we are here, or are looking for answers to any pressing questions about the church or the gospel, this is a great place to look.
I have loved reading this book, especially as I prepare my Relief Society lessons. It is fun to read the powerful talks written by a man that I remember as being so sick, yet so strong. I love it dearly and only have about 100 pages to go.
What didn't I learn from this book? The title says it all. Faith precedes the miracle. I have always struggled with having faith, and this book taught me the differenct between belief, desire, and faith. I will keep this book on my shelf for sure.
This was a great collection of talks by Pres. Kimball. I read it straight through to read it and found some talks I will probably read over and over again and some I may never read again. I especially liked the sections on faith, and the ones on marriage and family.
Good stuff! President Kimball might have had a career as an essayist. I especially enjoyed Chapter 2, where throughout he addresses the reader as Nicodemus...very interesting.
I had forgotten how straight forward President Kimball was. I felt it worthwhile to refresh my memory of his teachings and enjoyed reading his words.
I loved President Kimball. He was a true prophet and his words are as true today as when he wrote them. Very inspiring and life changing book
That my faith is strong but could be stronger.
Anything that pres kimball has written or said is worth the time.
