https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125200.The_Palm_at_the_End_of_the_Mind
Obfuscation. Delicious prevarication. Obtuse, lyrical, lovely. Wallace Stevens confounds me and yet I cannot help but savor each phrase as it were a small sliver of the sweetest orange. Parakeets! Ice Cream! Snow! Oranges and Coffee!
In a way, he wrote the same poem over and over again, but each time the poem has a distinctive way of asserting itself.Stevens' core idea was that the poet does more than endow reality with meaning; he makes reality; his focal plane is that verbal space between things and perception; and that is where words give us experience.As important as recurrent images, certain words are talismanic in Stevens' work.
Each turn of phrase and image comes back to that single point: if there is order or a comedian or a palm anywhere, it is because the poet (or the devout reader) put it there.
This may be my greatest read of all time. Wallace Stevens is the best, but he is not for the faint of heart. There's nothing simple about this poetry.

The eponymous poem of this collection, Of Mere Being, still gives me chills. I find my favorite poetry is often a set of words or images that I can't quite grasp the meaning of until I have memorized them, at which point some mysterious understanding transpires. This is one of those. The surreal imagery of this utter blank vacuous space in the moments immediately after death, with this distant, all to vivid palm rising out of eternity gives me a strange sense of serenity. But I doubt I will ever understand the bronze decor.
There are many great poems in this book. My favorite poem "Prologues to What is Possible" begins with the line "There was an ease of mind that was like being alone on a boat at sea." This sentence is a challenge to the reader. What I love about it is that Stevens is essentially choosing his audience with this poem. Take the line for granted and you will not understand the poem. There are other whimsical poems in this book that are great as well.
What didn't I learn from this book?
There is no end...and I'm still both learning and being joyfully inspired.
As a poet, I go to his work continually to nourish my own imagination and give it permission to fly.
It's been ignored by some, poets and readers alike, because his work is dense, philosophical as well as filled with quirky humor.
It does require repeated readings, as much good poetry often does.
He himself said that any good poem should need to be read again and again...not for its intellectual "meaning" but for its quiddity.
This collection, while not as definitive as The Collected Poetry, includes all the major longer poems and many important shorter poems of critical value. Arranged in chronological order by probable date of composition this text provides the reader the possiblility of considering the overall arc of Stevens' career. I find myself dipping into the poems included here time and again and it is difficult to pull myself away. The thoughtful consideration of art and meaning in life is seldom conveyed any better than in the poetry of Wallace Stevens.
No, I have not read the whole book. This is a compilation of his poetry. I understand about 5 percent of what is going on. Even if I understood nothing, I would still love the way he uses words. He writes a lot about poetry and imagination; I always enjoy people who write about writing and words...if they are creative.
The Literal Reaction One of Wallace Stevens's Co-Workers Had When The Other Guys In The Insurance Company Told Him That Stevens Was A Big To-Do Over In The Poetry World: "Wally? A Poet"!?
A substitute for all the gods
Forget me reviewing this. I just want to point to this hilarious debate over this book, which I was assigned in college, and append some remarks.http://www.amazon.com/review/R2OHBBLT...Jmark2001 TOTALLY GOES OFF ON THIS BOOK:By Jmark2001If poets aren't interested in being understood, they will have to resign themselves to being read by no one except English Lit drones. There was a time when poetry was so popular in the USA that many daily newspapers had daily poems and the average worker with a
I just want to point to this hilarious debate over this book, which I was assigned in college, and append some remarks.http://www.amazon.com/review/R2OHBBLT...Jmark2001 TOTALLY GOES OFF ON THIS BOOK:By 	Jmark2001If poets aren't interested in being understood, they will have to resign themselves to being read by no one except English Lit drones.
WHOSE POINTS ARE STRONGER?Jmark2001 REPLIES TO THIS:Jmark2001 says:"Stevens is easily the greatest poet in the language in the 20th century, and most of his fellow Americans have never heard of him."Which proves my point.Another "Great" poet who no one has ever heard of.
Here are the poems in my sample: 1) Blanche McCarthy 2) Cy Est Pourtraicte, Madame Ste Ursule, et Les Unze Mille Vierges3) Tea4) Sunday Morning5) Peter Quince at the Clavier6) The Silver Plough-Boy7) Disillusionment of Ten O'Clock8) For an Old Woman in a Wig9) Domination of Black10) Six Significant LandscapesWallace Stevens is very new to me.
It turned out that I like (and love) a LOT of poets from a variety of time periods, genres, styles, and cultures, but on the Nook it's easiest to find 19th and 20th century British and American poetry.To be fair, I probably should not be writing a review of Stevens' The Palm at the End of the Mind, because, again, I only have the Sample Edition with only ten of the poems, and the one play in this book was obviously not included in my edition.
In sum: 'Death is the mother of beauty' (from 'Sunday Morning'); 'Each matters only in that which is conceives' (from 'A Pastoral Nun'); 'I was the world in which I walked' (from 'Tea at the Palaz of Hoon'); 'It is not the premise that reality / Is a solid.
Kudos to Holly S.At another conversation with N and his poet friend L, I mentioned that reading Stevens in chronological order is watching him find ways of exploring a similar idea over and over again (a la Jane Austen and her marriage-trick pony); L said that yes, it really all comes down to 'Death is the mother of beauty'.
Yes, to rereading his work with gusto for years to come!
My favorite poems include:Domination of BlackSix Significant LandscapesThirteen Ways of Looking at a
Wallace Stevens has been an important part of my life since I first read my dad's copy of his Collected Poems when I was sixteen... Twenty years later and I always have The Palm at the End of the Mind on my Reading Shelf and read a poem or two at least once every few months... Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird is one of my favorite pieces of writing.Definitely in my Top Ten Poets: Wallace Stevens, Leonard Cohen, ee cummings, Dylan Thomas, Ginsberg, TS Elliot, Rilke, Robert Browning, Joan Keats, Tennyson
The Collected Poems of Wallace Stevens is one of my favorite books, but it is rather unwieldy and heavy, perfect for a study but not to carry around. This selection of his works, edited by his daughter, includes all of his truly great poems and is the ideal edition for any who want to read Stevens, say outdoors.
Wallace Stevens is beyond brilliant. He may be my favorite poet, and The Palm at the End of the Mind contains such amazing stuff. He is lyrical and musical and makes my soul hurt. Almost everything is amazing. In fact, I should reread this soon.For the listener, who listens in the snow,And, nothing himself, beholdsNothing that is not there and the nothing that is.
love love love love i have no words, soooo abstract (not for the light-hearted) but delightful. whimsical. sonorous. imagery. sights. sounds. alight and alive.
Who knew, he's tops
Wallace Stevens (not to be confused with the folk singer Cat Stevens, who has since changed his name a second time to Yusuf Islam, after having changed his name from the original Steven Demetre Georgiou) has an interesting take on the world.
Honestly, I understood Kenneth Koch's stuff more than this, and KK is a whackadoo, poetically speaking.The one main attraction I found to Stevens is his use of peacocks and oboes.
So peacocks, oboes, and a warped, convoluted vision of the world make Wallace Stevens one to read, perhaps not in depth, but here and there when you're in need of something different.
I was intrigued because the only poetry I knew by Wallace Stevens was 13 Ways of Looking at a Blackbird, and I knew he had written a great deal.
He wanted the eye to see ..." and "If/It was nowhere else, it was there and because/It was nowhere else, its place had to be supposed,/ Itself had to be supposed, a thing supposed/In a place supposed, a thing that he reached/In a place that he reached,..."from Jumbo -- "...the loud general-large/Singsonged and singsonged, wildly free." and "Who the transformer, himself transformed,/ Whose single being, single form/Were their resemblances to ours?"from Somnanbulisma -- "The generations of the bird are all/By water washed away.
They follow after./They follow, follow, follow, in water washed away."I found his style and his subject matter intriguing.
Mixed bag - it's a thorough collection so the good comes with the bad.
A lot of the longer poems got really heady and turned me off - it felt like he was reaching towards something he couldn't describe but tried to.
I much preferred the more image and metaphor heavy poems - some were delightful.
I liked: "Of Mere Being", "The Poem Took the Place of a Mountain", "World Without Peculiarity", "Someone Puts a Pineapple Together", "The Motive for Metaphor", "The Idea of Order at Key West", "Anecdote of the Jar", "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird", and "Disillusionment of Ten O'Clock".
His metaphysics are less interesting than his word play, but this book is smashed full of both.
That's a lot of overserious mysticism I had to go through just to reach a brilliant line like "the eccentric souvenirs of human shapes/wrapped in their seemings, crowd on curious crowd".As to the book itself, the foreword notes that the dates when Stevens wrote most of these poems are fuzzy, but it's too bad that there isn't more notation for the approximate times of each work, particularly since Stevens' is such a rare figure whose writing bloomed late in life.
I think that I love this collection more for the associations I have with it, than with the poems themselves, in all honesty. Id est, my drunken English acquaintance Ed, who, clad in perennial tweed and converse, as a grad student at Trinity, would regale me with the merits of Stevens by the statue of of Kavanagh along the Grand Canal in Dublin or while quaffing numerous ales at my Ringsend flat and ashing his hand-rolled cigarette into my sugar bowl. Ah, memories!
I guess I admire Steven's poetry rather than like it. I have had this book for a time and finally got around to reading it. The poems are presented in chronological order and I found that I liked the earliest ones best. I respect all the awards that the author collected but somehow while appreciating the language, didn't feel any narrative pull in the poems. I will not keep this volume in my library but instead just rely on several poetry anthologies I have to re-visit Stevens when I choose.
Romantic subjects such as art, reality, imagination and perception from a modernist perspective. The book includes most of Stevens’s greatest poems; those I return to most frequently include “The Snowman,” “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird,” “The Idea of Order at Key West,” “The Emperor of Ice Cream,” “Notes Toward a Supreme Fiction” and “Bantam in Pinewoods.”
Along with The Way of Life According to Lao Tzu, this is my daily companion, a book I read in again and again. Stevens' meditations on the relationship of thought and reality are a foundation of my own thinking: "Reality Is an Activity of the Most August Imagination."
