https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2010.The_Santaroga_Barrier
...I guess thematically and stylistically The Santaroga Barrier is a book of it's time.
It leans very heavily on the ideas Herbert used as an inspiration.
What makes this book stand out is the depth of these ideas.
To Herbert they were not merely interesting concepts.
It does not have the epic scope and wide variety of themes of the Dune saga but of all his works outside that setting, The Santaroga Barrier is probably the most underrated.
If you are looking to explore Herbert's work beyond Dune, this book would be a good choice.Full Random Comments review
And so it is with Frank Herbert, a writer possessed of an astonishing mind, best known for the sf classic Dune, and yet someone who also produced many other novels and stories.
But the links are clear, unsurprisingly as Santaroga appeared just four years after Dune's first publication, and one year before Dune Messiah.Let me summarize the book, first, and without spoilers.
Somewhat out of step is the idea of a heroic psychologist, which feels more like a 1940s idea, especially as contemporary reform and splinter movements within psychology don't really appear.I was especially taken with the idea of a non-countercultural community building up a drug-based utopia.
It's a classical piece of Soft Science Fiction which examines the society of today, or, more precisely, of America in the late Sixties.
He discovers that the inhabitants expose all food to some drug which sharpens their senses, making it possible to realize all the flaws of the modern capitalist world (excessive TV consumption, money rules everything, false values et cetera) in a very precise way.
The book is a discussion about the false gods of the modern world and possible ways out - ways which might lead to some totalitarian community where the crowd counts more than the individual.

Da demasiadas vueltas a la historia. Quizás hubiera funcionado mejor en formato de cuento.
Please read the full review on Weighing A PigI’m not too thrilled to write a review about this book. The Dune-series is among the best thing I ever read, so I hate to report that Frank Herbert didn’t even come close with The Santaroga Barrier. (...) The premise is interesting nonetheless, and Herbert manages to create an eerie vibe in the first couple of chapters.(...)
The premise of a rather closed-off, conservative of change, self-sufficient, cult-ish, invested in a mind-altering drug community that retains a firm foot in the past away from television - he's not really writing a lot of fiction there ;) Herbert's exploration of social economy and psychology was fascinating from both the pro and con perspectives, and the application to the storyline kept me reading this book in one sitting; I had to know what was going to happen next!Some bits I want to remember:"After the Jaspers, we sat there and listened to the sunset, a rope and a bird.""They resisted some change.
This story felt like it was only partially completed.
The writing style is so Herbert that the reading was pleasurable, but I am afraid I just did not get the real point behind "why" the book was written.
So much of the "sinister" aspects of the book felt artificial.
I suspect that Herbert was intentionally trying to get this response, but again the reasons are not clear as to why.
Overall, I found this an odd book but very smooth to read.
I still love Herbert's writing, but this was perhaps his weakest story I have read and will keep me from exploring too hard his other pseudo sci-fi.
Dasein acted like a tantrumy toddler, Jenny was an early version of a manic pixie dreamgirl, and most of the rest of the characters were cardboard cutouts.
Plus, I just never could get past the thought that the real threat, in this story, is the idea that people have no right to refuse to buy commercial products, or to reject their marketing efforts.
Both the "market study" that Dasein was undertaking, and the reaction of a traveling salesman who had been unable to make sales in the valley struck me as exemplary of the evil sense of entitlement that corporations seem to feel they have to our collective dollar.
He finds a community so intriguing but disquieting that he's torn between an equal desire to stay or to flee.In contrast to Herbert's tendency to tell the narrative from several points of view at once (The White Plague, Dune, etc), The Santaroga Barrier finds him focusing on the main character alone.
The story is a critique of the drug and hippie culture that was sweeping the US at the time of his writing and also strikes at the perceived ideal of suburban and small town life, what it means to be an individual, and the direction that our society is moving.Recommended for fans of utopian literature and those who want to question their own faith in modern society.
A few Santarogans left to go to college outside the valley - that was where Dasein met his girlfriend, Jenny Sorge, a native of Santaroga - and a few others served in the draft in Vietnam (the book was published and presumably set in 1968; various minor details such automobile technology, clothing styles, and the like point to this time period but are not essential to the story), though many come back due to unexplained allergic reactions to Army food.Mindful of the lack of success of previous attempts to understand this mysterious "Barrier" and particularly of the fact that the last two people to investigate Santaroga met accidental deaths, Dasein journeyed to the town.
Although Herbert isn't an especially exciting prose stylist, I enjoyed reading this one.
It isn't full of complex concepts and systems that you need to figure out as you go like Dune or some of his other works, so it moves along pretty well, at least in Herbert-adjusted terms.
Despite not being quite as exciting as it could have been I found it more interesting than, say, Blake Crouch's Wayward Pines trilogy.A few criticisms: Santaroga doesn't go in depth enough into its themes, making it feel relatively slight when compared to his other works.
Which is a shame because I really enjoy the ideas brought up here--mostly dealing, in as non-spoilery terms as I can muster, with consciousness and psychological development.

I walked into this book completely blind, which I really enjoy doing sometimes.
I had no idea what it was about.
It's still science fiction, but radically different from Herbert's other scifi; it's set in a valley in California in the late 60s.
Usually the world-building is one of the best things about Herbert's scifi, so what's so great about a pseudo-scifi novel set in boring old California?
Herbert does a phenomenal job of crafting a subtly creepy atmosphere without giving much at all away.
I found myself deliciously enjoying the ambiance and thinking this would make a great movie.

Succint and very slightly weird polemic against modern America via a consciousness-enhancing yeast. This book is as if A Scanner Darkly had been stirred in a pot with the Foundation prequel which was obsessed with yeast cultures. It's not that bad a book - but it's not one to go mad for. Doesn't hold a candle to Dune, but not badly put together. I also liked the attack on bad writing and jargon, and the one on advertising.bit of a weird one overall, don't think I'd recommend but it would be funny to talk about.
Really enjoyed this book, it felt like watching one of those old "Invaders" movie where the population is being taken over one by one but no-one believes it. The Firm meets Hotel California. You kind of know where it's all heading but it still manages to maintain a Hitchcock-style tension and with a satisfying conclusion. Very different feel to Herbert's Dune (and a much easier read) but like Dune it deals with the subject of addiction and the fine and hazy line between brilliance and madness. Community spirit at the cost of personal identity.

While it's not the Dune series, The Santaroga Barrier contains some similar elements. In Dune "The Spice" is the mysterious drug that is ingested into the entire culture and fabric of the community. The Santaroga Barrier has "Jaspers" that has the same effect on the residents. The book is about the community of Santaroga and its ability to shut out the rest of the world from entering. It's a decent fantasy novel by Herbert. It probably would have given it a 3.5 if possible.
I enjoyed this book and the dystopian twilight zone style mystery it set. It was a constant twist trying to understand the need for yaspers and why the people couldn’t live without it or what they desired from the doctor. The Steph ford wife danger left plenty of suspense and me glued to reading. I have read mostly Frank Herbert’s Dune and this was far removed and a brilliant work. If you like suspense you will enjoy this novel.
I thought I had read this short Frank Herbert story in high school when I first devoured Dune & everything else he had written but on what I thought was a re-read I'm less sure. Almost at the borderline of not being SF this was a fun take on the "small town with a dark secret" horror trope. Segments clearly inspired by LSD were familiar in proportion to unsettling.
I remember reading this nearly 50 years ago and being quite taken with it. It's a bit dated now, but still pretty good, and a lot more ambiguous than I seem to have noticed the first time - ha. I think, given the chance, I would have happily moved to Santaroga back then. A little less comfortable with the unconscious self-preservation tactics this time through.Interesting.
I kept reading for a surprise ending. There isn't one.
This tale captured my interest. The insular community was both ideal and disturbing. What is reality anyway - it's as finite as a bit of cheese.
Really liked this sci fi mystery,easy reading.
Some crisp, catchy dialogue, but mostly a quotidian mix of philosophy, social science, and human nature critiques. Solid if unspectacular.
And yet Herbert has a way of taking the topic out of the Timothy Leary/LSD "acid trip" framing and putting it in a context that transcends his own time.The fact that Herbert takes these themes, which were addressed at length throughout the Dune Chronicles, and explores them in the setting of a small town gives the reader a different angle from which to consider the topics.
This smaller scale, and its more common frame of reference (small town USA), allows an interesting array of literary "flavors" to rise to the service.For students of Frank Herbert, TSB is an important book.
Fortunatamente mi sbagliavo.“The Santaroga barrier” mi ha preso fin dai primi capitoli.
La struttura stessa della trama è fatta apposta per coinvolgere il lettore gradualmente, man mano che il mistero di Santaroga viene svelato.
Il protagonista stesso passa gradualmente dallo stato di outsider guardato con sospetto, a membro della comunità di Santaroga, ma il passaggio è tutt’altro che indolore, e ve ne accorgerete.La chiave di tutto (come si intuisce già dai primi capitoli) è il Jaspers, potente droga in grado di amplificare la coscienza.
Il Jaspers è palesemente reminiscente del melange di Arrakis, ma qui esso rappresenta il vero e proprio fulcro della narrazione.
I think he should have made Dr. Dasein a first year graduate student, being sent out (in naïve enthusiasm) by his advisor, Dr. Selador (it would have made his hook-up with Jenny slightly less creepy).
I don’t think he needed to explain the Jaspers’ origin (which he didn’t) but I was left with an ambivalent feeling as to whether it had a positive or negative moral value.
This would be okay, if he was going to write a sequel, but this was published three years after Dune, and I think Herbert saw the novel as a stand-alone.
the book started a little slow, but the style was very herbert and held your attention the whole time.
still not sure if i would consider santaroga utopian or distopian?
the idea of jaspers rang a bell for me as being very similar to melange in dune (especially the first dune book where paul is subjected to high quantities the same way gilbert is subjected to jaspers to the point of overdose).
instead of being prescient, like melange, jaspers enables the citizens of santaroga to share feelings in a hive kind of mentality.good stuff.
too many books, too little time.
