https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93794.The_Kill_Artist
MUST READ autor i serijal... Svaki put se knjiga sa žaljenjem zatvara posle poslednje pročitane strane i nestrpljivo čeka juli sledeće godine da izađe novi nastavak... U Srbiji je prevodi sjajna Žermen Filipović dobar poznavalac Izraela... :)
I read the 'Rembrandt Affair' a year ago and really enjoyed Gabriel Allon, the Israeli spy and assassin who just can't quit his job.
It's a mark of a great series when a book stands on its own, acknolwedging that a lot of water is under the bridge but you neither feel left out or beat over the head with recaps from prior books (the Sookie Stackhouse novels are for people who enjoy that kind of pain).I felt compelled to go to the beginning, The Kill Artist, which is the first book in the series and where we first meet Gabriel Allon.
Silva kicks off the series with a fully-formed Allon, a spy who has already lived the enviable James Bond-style life, had a family and great success, but who has lost it all.
Eh. Kind of an ordinary spy thriller, one I might have appreciated more had I read it 15-20 years ago when I was less jaded.Like many of this genre, you have a good (and troubled) guy who works for Israeli intelligence working with his stunningly beautiful and capable heroine with whom he has a complicated (of course) relationship.
The first section jumped rapidly between characters and settings, and you never really felt like you were getting to know anyone or like anything resembling a story had started.
People do seem to like this series, though, so I'm open to the possibility that the books improve over subsequent volumes.
I've read more than half of the 14 in this series and decided to go to the beginning and get caught up in all. This first shows an insecure and hesitant Gabriel before his maturation into a confident, and self-assured hero of Isreal and that's the Gabriel I prefer. 5 of 10 stars
"Se estivermos a vigiar um alvo a partir de um café, não devemos fazer coisas que nos façam parecer estar a vigiar um alvo a partir do café, tais como ficarmos sentados sozinhos durante horas, a fingir estarmos a ler um jornal."Daniel Silva introduziu-me, da forma mais extraordinária, o mundo da espionagem.
Shamram é o homem que nos apresenta o nosso herói, o qual só é capaz de fazer o seu trabalho com o auxilio de editoras, empresas de transporte, galerias de arte, farmácias e outros tantos negócios legais, que actuam e são conhecidos a nível mundial.Quando o Daniel Silva já tinha o controlo dos meus pensamentos e emoções, eis que me é apresentada Sarah, conhecida no mundo da moda como Jacqueline Delacroix.
Nothing grabbed me.The story was ok but several minor things bothered me, so I’ll list them below.When I finished this I thought huh, the hero didn’t do anything heroic and he did not solve the bad guy problem.
Ok, but that kind of let me down - not much hero development here.Throughout the book the good guys were not doing smart things which made it less fun to root for them.
The front door guard let him in even though his name was not on the list - because the bad guy said they told me they needed extra staff.
যারা সপাই থৃলার পছনদ করেন বা এককালে মাসুদ রানার ভকত ছিলেন গযাবরিয়েল আলোন সিরিজ তাদের জনয অবশযপাঠয।মাসটার মাইনড আরি শযামরোন পুরাই লা-জওয়াব।গযাবরিয়েলের পরেমে হাবুডুবু না খেয়ে উপায় নাই আপনি যতই সাঁতার জানা লোক হোন না কেন। :)
যারা স্পাই থৃলার পছন্দ করেন বা এককালে মাসুদ রানার ভক্ত ছিলেন গ্যাব্রিয়েল আলোন সিরিজ তাদের জন্য অবশ্যপাঠ্য।মাস্টার মাইন্ড আরি শ্যামরোন পুরাই লা-জওয়াব।গ্যাব্রিয়েলের প্রেমে হাবুডুবু না খেয়ে উপায় নাই আপনি যতই সাঁতার জানা লোক হোন না কেন। :)
This is supposedly the first in a series of novels about Gabriel Allon, an Israeli agent fighting terrorists.
We're introduced to him only as "the restorer" and then as "the stranger" and it's quite a while before he's linked to Gabriel Allon who seems less a starring player as just one in an ensemble cast.
The style is decent enough, but nothing in the novel raised this to anything memorable among the many "dicklit" thrillers that spend some time in the bestseller list.
I enjoyed this book so much I now intend to read the rest of the series. Not really sure how I came across this author but I am so glad I did. The story is exciting, fast paced and informative. The characters are well developed and you can easily picture them in your mind which makes the read easier and more enjoyable. The subject matter is not entirely my genre and not an obvious choice for me but I quickly got into it and read it over two days.
I’ve heard good things about this series, and I was not disappointed. Very enjoyable. Lots of action and twists. I’m glad I starts this series.
3.0 stars. A good, solid international thriller centering on Israeli operative/art restorer Gabriel Allon attempting to track down a Palestinian terrorist. This is the first of the Gabriel Allon books and I thought he was an interesting character and will certainly read the next book in the series.
The Kill Artist, the first in the Gabriel Allon Series was first published in 2000 and it is starting to feel its age.
Granted, had I read it first in 2000, I may have not felt this way.As in many books that are the first in a series, the story starts of slowly as we are introduced to the characters.
Our "hero" is a former Israeli intelligence officer who has retired and is working as a reclusive, world class art restorer.
She has also worked an Israeli agent using her "assets" to get information or put foreign diplomats in compromising positions.I was rather bored of the book by the halfway point.
Books such as The Osterman Weekend and others.Gabriel Allon, a once Israeli agent come spy has retired from that occupation and now lives as an art restorer in a quiet village in Cornwall England.
An opportunity to get the man who is responsible for killing his family and at the same time help the piece accord to survive, it’s just too tempting for Gabriel to pass up.This is a whirlwind adventure that will take you all over Europe and the Middle East before ending up in the USA.There are a lot of dead end roads here.
I’m always surprised when a premise of a book sounds so good – a perfect swish, and then the book itself is like a big old airball. Meet Gabriel Allon: super spy, art restorerer, tortured soul, handsome, ruthless, boring.  Daniel Silva’s book sounds great! A spy who restores masterpieces, who is out for revenge for his murdered family but doesn’t really like to kill people. He’s recruited from retirement by a ruthless Israeli agent who wants to stop an equally ruthless Palestinian terrorist. Ru
I’m always surprised when a premise of a book sounds so good – a perfect swish, and then the book itself is like a big old airball.
Meet Gabriel Allon: super spy, art restorerer, tortured soul, handsome, ruthless, boring.
A spy who restores masterpieces, who is out for revenge for his murdered family but doesn’t really like to kill people.
He’s recruited from retirement by a ruthless Israeli agent who wants to stop an equally ruthless Palestinian terrorist.
And knowing Gabriel is just going to get pulled out of retirement again to fight some more of the same old baddies was just anti-climactic.
But Gabriel Allon has no style.

I had previously read the 16th book in the series, “The Black Widow”, and enjoyed it very much.
This was an interesting choice, as it does force the reader to realize that although one side may be a bit more moral than the other, there are still legitimate grievances on both sides of the issue.“The Kill Artist” suffered from some “too cute” plot devices and some too easily wrapped up plot points, and from a ridiculous scene with Yasir Arafat and the main bad guy in the text, a terrorist named Tariq.
An entertaining audible listen with fairly complex characters and a tricky spy plot. It held our attention through the Pennsylvania and Ohio turnpikes. 3.5 stars.
The methodology of the art restoration expert is the same as that of the professional assassin: “study the target, become like him, do the job, slip away without a trace.” Just as retired Israeli agent Gabriel Allon must study the artist Vecellio in order to resurrect and restore The Adoration of the Shepherd, to make the painting just like the original so he must study again the work of his old nemesis Tariq, agent of the PLO wing that is angry and upset with Arafat’s peace initiatives.
"Passou os últimos anos da vida consertando tudo e todos menos a você mesmo. Restaura quadros e veleiros velhos. Restaurou o Escritório..." pág. 386Triste destino de Gabriel Allon, restaurador de profissão e assassino nas horas vagas ou assassino de profissão e restaurador nas horas vagas :)Gabriel Allon (personagem que veremos noutros livros do autor) é um ex-agente secreto das forças israelitas que vive quase isolado dedicando-se à restauração de valiosos quadros antigos, mas de tempos a tempos é forçado a abandonar o sossego em que vive para voltar ao activo.
3,5 stars It was a nice read, good start of a series, but there's room for improvement.
Antes de se dedicar exclusivamente ao restauro de quadros, foi um agente secreto israelita e responsável por vários assassinatos, tendo sido considerado um dos melhores agentes do seu tempo de actividade.
Inicialmente tive bastante dificuldade com o avançar da acção, senti-me bastante perdida, são muitas personagens para um desenrolar lento da acção.O tema central é o conflito no Médio Oriente, mais especificamente o conflito entre Israel e a Palestina.
Os capítulos são pequenos e permitem uma acção constante.Conclusão?
Não foi uma leitura que me atraísse muito mas fiquei com curiosidade para ler os próximos, especialmente para ver o evoluir da personagem principal.
Gabriel Allon is an art restorer brought back from retirement to be a secret agent for Ari Shamron and to restore The Office by capturing Tariq.
Gabriel agrees because he is seeking revenge on Tariq.
Severla years beofre, Tariq planted a bomb in the car which Gabriel's wife and son were in thereby killing his young son and physicaly and mentally scarring his wife.
Tariq is part of a terrorist network who is planning to kill the Palestinian prime minister and disrupt the Isreali/Palestinian peace process.
A beautiful French model assists Gabriel as an under-cover agent.
Strong introduction to the series, specially setting up the background of Gabriel Allon. As the book progressed, however, I found the set up with Allon as 'surveillance' detail, felt sluggish and bored me. I was expecting a Mitch Rapp or Jason Bourne, but instead got neither. There are still over 10 Gabriel Allon books, I'll give Mr Silva another chance simply for his unique and engaging writing style. 3stars.
“The Kill Artist” is the first novel in the popular Daniel Silva series to feature his Israeli spy/art restorer extraordinaire, Gabriel Allon.
In this novel, readers are given a glimpse at the tragic backstory of Allon---his son was killed in a car bomb explosion meant for him, while his wife survived only to live in a vegetative coma-like state---and introduced to Allon’s arch-nemesis, a Palestinian terrorist named Tariq.Among the other important characters are: ***Jacqueline Delacroix, a beautiful French supermodel who is also an Israeli spy.
As the first book in the series, this effort does not measure up to later stories.
The later books in the series keep getting better and better.Gabriel Allon, the protagonist, is an art restorer, who at one time worked for a secret Israeli intelligence agency.
Ari Shamron, his ex-boss and an obsessive protector of everything Israeli lures him back into the game by assigning him to stop a Palestinian zealot, Tariq, who is on one last mission.
Silva, though, does a good job of presenting the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a basis for understanding Tariq's motivation.
inicio.Ainda assim, não haja dúvidas (pelo menos para mim), a saga "Gabriel Allon", tal como a de "Robert Langdon" (Dan Brown), é uma "cereja".
The twist at the end was somewhat diverting, but, otherwise...(view spoiler)[ One of my major issues with books like this is the fact that to have a new girl every book, it requires finding ways to get rid of the girls without the hero looking like a bad guy.
In this case, she's like, don't feel bad, I got almost everything I wanted and someone else was like, Gabriel, you saved her.
Everything she went through because he didn't listen to her when she was like, no, this is a bad idea.
(hide spoiler)]
I came to this book after reading the later story Moscow Rules, which may have been a mistake because the later story is much more gripping than the first.
Silva's first Gabriel Allon book is enjoyable, but it is not a gripping page-turner.
Some have compared Silva to John LeCarre.
Silva is, at this point at least, a good, entertaining writer, but not one who has redefined the genre or set new levels of excellence in writing.
I will continue to read the Allon books in order and, based on what I found in Moscow Rules, I do expect the quality to improve.

Daniel Silva’s gripping thriller, The Kill Artist, is exactly what I want from this type of book. Silva takes multiple perspective and locations, and weaves them together into a story I couldn’t put down. I listened to the last 90 minutes of the audio very late at night, because I had to know the final twists before sleeping. Full review at TheBibliophage.com.
