https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3860977-how-we-decide
It was well-written and entertaining, as well.Things I learned:People need to use both rational thought and emotion to make the best decisions.We need to make our own mistakes because that is how our brains get rewired not to do it again.
Emotions turn mistakes into educational events and then use those lessons unconsciously.We get cranky when we're hungry and tired because the prefrontal cortex is the first to lose energy and consequently the ability to suppress negative emotions.
Embrace uncertainty: entertain competing hypotheses and remind yourself of what you don't know.Difficult decisions (those with numerous factors involved) are best made by taking in all the facts, sleeping on it, and ultimately relying on your feelings.
Blink isn’t really very good at answering that dilemma (if dilemma is the right word – you know, limiting our choices to just two makes life nicely black and white, but sometimes life has shades of grey and other times even comes in technicolour).When this book gets into its stride it runs through the sorts of cognitive errors that we are likely to make when we make decisions.
Essentially this book says that there are good and bad times to use your rational brain to make decisions and that there are times when the best decisions you can make are those you will make by relying on your emotions.
False attributionsand self-plagiarismand plain old plagiarism...oh, my!I'm not a journalist; honestly, I have trouble understanding the ethical dilemmas of "self-plagiarism." Yes, I understand that one should cite oneself, but I can also understand why this would fail to occur to an author.But seriously? Plagiarising Gladwell?Making up quotes from Bob Dylan? Taking quotes from Wikipedia and pretending that they were interviews?What makes one decide to do that?Do explain.
In fact there is so much that I fear I may fall victim to one of the decision-making hazards the author discusses in which the rational part of the brain, the prefrontal cortex, becomes overwhelmed by too much information.
The basic message though is simple: the key thing is to think about when making a decision is how you are thinking.It's nice when you get to learn something about the latest advances in a field of science and find yourself being entertained at the same time.
03/28/14 Update.I don't know where this review went, but I'm putting it back.11/09/13 Update.This is why Goodreads needs to separate itself from Amazon, and why Amazon sucks: http://www.amazon.com/How-We-Decide-J...An average of four stars, the "most helpful negative review" is three stars, and the main page and 'negative review' doesn't mentions Lehrer's little plagiarism problem or the fact that the publisher recalled the book--they actually offered refunds.
He later makes the interesting point that it is the rational brain we should consult for small, less global decisions (his "which jam" examples) because it is well equipped to parse out the small number of variables needed to decide.
It is filled with anecdotes and stories that illustrate the main point of the book: the emotional side of our brains makes our decisions for us, and the rational side of our brains helps justify our decisions.
We find it difficult to consciously sort out which information should be given greater weight in our decisions.Other stories in the book show how people form a world-concept, and then choose to ignore overwhelming evidence that casts doubt on their concept.
Sometimes we use the rational side of our brain to justify our disregard of the evidence.This book is an easy, fun read; highly recommended.
Partly because I pretty much only read fantasy books and that only works for certain (awesome) people, but mostly because this book does such a good job explaining how the brain works that I still remember much of the book today.Think Malcolm Gladwell's Blink, but with much better explanations and less exciting writing.Actually these two books use quite a number of the same studies to make their points, but where Gladwell tends toward obfuscation, How We Decide goes into the science behind how the brain works.
His neutral affect intrigued Damasio, who hooked the guy up to a machine which measures the activity of sweat glands in the palms to quantify emotional response.
We think of decision making as being a rational process, yet it was not this man's intellect that was stripped away, but his emotions; without reference to them, he was unable to choose a restaurant, much less a menu item, and this deficit was proving to be utterly debilitating.
Damasio wondered if the emotions play a greater part in decision making than we generally give them credit for.Our author does not leave us with a one note argument for trusting one's emotions in decision making.
A great improvement over Imagine: How Creativity Works and am I thankful for that. This is probably my first back-to-back for a non-fiction author and was dreading it every page.
Speaking of decisions, am I right?Second, this book seems to be formulaic pop psychology at its worst.
Unfortunately, it was really heavy on dramatic anecdote, and really light on abstract concept.It did touch on Kahneman & Tversky's loss aversion concept, an important idea if you are not familiar with it, but honestly, there are 100 other pop psych books that can explain that.
Or Wikipedia: make the right decision and save yourself a couple hours and $15.
This is a great review of neurobiology, filled with real-life examples. If you ever wondered what informs hunches, why certain things give you the heebie-jeebies "for no reason," or what neurotransmitters are involved in your "6th sense," this is the book for you.
It is, nevertheless, a mystery why brains work better than others---why some of us make consistently good decisions, and others never seem to learn from their mistakes.In How We Decide, author Jonah Lehrer explores our current understanding of the human mind.
Tightly tightly written and entertaining, How We Decide is intended more for general audiences than academics, who might find its descriptions and explanations too basic to help in their professional work.
Even as Jonah Lehrer explores the decision-making process from the perspective of cognitive neuroscience, How We Decide also reaffirms my admiration for and awe of the brain.I learned a great deal from this book.
If you can only take away a single piece of advice from How We Decide, try this: “read only the fine print.”)In fact, what begins to emerge from these chapters on rationality versus emotion is a theory of automatic versus deliberative decision-making.
Suffice it to say, the second chapter is called “The Predictions of Dopamine”, and Lehrer goes into great detail through the book about the roles various sections of the brain play in decision-making, as well as how we know this—mostly fMRIs, sometimes monkey torture.
But, though Lehrer did plumb some of the rational/emotional divide, his book became more of a series of scientific anecdotes and sweeping generalizations than a proper synthesis of neuroscience.
The anecdotes are sharp, crossing popular topics like sports and the stock market, and in proper media man fashion, Lehrer takes us into the personal details of people who were present.
A few chapters in you realize that like a lot of neuroscience books, this one is just going to represent the same things we already know (sometimes feeling is good, sometimes bad; sometimes logic takes over) in some novel scientific terms.
As per Goodreads community reviews, this book ("The Decisive Moment: How The Brain Makes Up Its Mind") is an act of self-plagiarism (from "How We Decide"?
or is it the same book?), and it also contains plenty of misquoted data.
In this light, I probably should have started my adventure with neuroscience with Kahneman instead.
Nevertheless, I have learnt some new things about the workings of the brain, even though it did not feel like a very engaging introduction to me.
I found it hard to relate to some of the examples used (like a game of American football or owning eight credit cards).

Fool me twice, shame on your dopamine neurons.On why you should fail often:When the mind is denied the emotional sting of losing, it never figures out how to win.Even when we think we know nothing, our brains know something.
After Robertie plays a chess match, or a poker hand, or a backgammon game, he painstakingly reviews what happened.[...]He knows that self-criticism is the secret to self-improvement; negative feedback is the best kind.The physicist Niels Bohr once defined an expert as "a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field."Instead of praising kids for trying hard, teachers typically praise them for their innate intelligence (being smart).
(The experimental literature is especially fascinating here, as for example in the man who has a brain injury that leaves him affectless and unmoved by emotion, and thus unable to make even the simplest decision, as he gets caught up in an endless loop of weighing the advantages and disadvantages of each possibility.) Snap decisions based on observation and instinct, Lehrer shows in countless examples, are often better (as in successfully crash-landing a plane or escaping a forest fire) than simply listening to one’s desires (as those trapped in credit card debt know too well).
I'm in eighth grade this year and I read it last year. My teacher had it on a shelf and I thought it was a YA book not realizing it was actually on psychology. Anyway I thoroughly enjoyed the book and it made it easier to understand the concepts they were explaining by going back and showing examples. It took me about 2 weeks to finish but then again I'm only a middle school student.
I read about 2 chapters and had to turn the book off (I was listening on my commute.) Approaching the book with sincere optimism at reading a solid non-fictional psychology based book about choices, I felt I was baited and switched.
While this book proclaimed scientific non-fiction, and painted itself as objective, I simply could not get over the fact that the author was very clearly pushing a big-bang, darwin-inspired, godless agenda.
I felt that there was a sense of scientific self-righteousness about the author that I would not be able to deal with throughout an entire book.
But Jonah Lehrer's How We Decide holds its own with Gladwell, Stephen Pinker, Daniel Dennett, and the host of science writers increasingly focused on the complexities of the human brain.
By letting the experts do much of the talking and by drawing conclusions from his voluminous research and knowledge of the field, Lehrer presents a readable account of what we know about how we decide -- and acknowledges the vast universe of what we don't.This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine.
This one follows a similar pattern as the rest of them, discussing a lot of the same classic and newer experiments, then trying to relate the results to how we make decisions.
While that part has gotten repetitive for me, the author does come to some feasible, applicable conclusions about how we decide and how we can decide better (hint: "rational" decision-making is definitely not always best...though neither is emotional/intuitive).
I liked how it was organized, too: engaging stories about real people (quarterbacks, elite poker players, firefighters, serial killers) making surprising/money-making/life-saving/(life-ending) decisions introduced each section.So -- 3 stars if you've obsessively read books like this for the last year or two, like I have; 4 if it's a new genre.
I have read three books that circle around the science of decision-making, especially under pressure.
The most famous is BLINK; but I also grabbed on a whim a book called THE UNTHINKABLE about how people have survived extreme circumstances (such as plane crashes and acts of terrorism)...
finally, on a recommendation, I read HOW WE DECIDE.
I especially say that in light of the KoolAid like hype about everything Malcolm Gladwell writes and especially BLINK, with which I was greatly disappointed.
I was immensely stimulated with HOW WE DECIDE and highly recommend it as a light introduction to a Big Subject that I am sure we will be hearing a lot more about in the future.
It’s my first look inside the brain and I liked what I saw.
'How we Decide' looks at the new science of decision-making and how it can help us in making better choices in our daily lives.
Jonah Lehrer shows us the inner workings of the brain.
We learn about the different parts of the brain which are involved in the decision-making process, chiefly among them the prefrontal cortex.
He explains beautifully about loss aversion, creativity and working memory.
I really liked the description of new ideas: “From the perspective of the brain, new ideas are merely several old thoughts that occur at the exact same time.”This book has really encouraged me to explore the human brain further.
What I liked: The reassurance that air travel is very safe. Big decisions should be emotional decisions. The author is wearing a hoodie in his picture (he better like drinking beer).What I didn't like: The use of monkeys in experiments. Super sad!Who I'd suggest it to: Anyone who likes pretending they are a psychologist. This will add more ammunition to the psychological gun.
Review Unavailable :p It's simply because, I cannot think of an appropriate review for this book; no matter how much I wrote, it deserves much Much MUCH more <3 Jonah Lehrer, YOU ROCK!!!
Suprisingly it was a very easy and enjoyable read. The book is good and the Russian translation is amazing!!
But people can’t think this quickly, even under perfect conditions, it takes the brain about twenty milliseconds to respond to a sensory stimulus.”So I have never been at the receiving end of a major league fastball, so I imagine I had more time to decide when I played softball, or when I hit a tennis ball, but I get that it is all happening in seconds, and it is not the rational part of my brain working, it is instinct, and it is feeling that guides me.
Aku sudah menginginkan membaca buku ini sejak lama dan tidak menyangka menemukan versi terjemahannya di perpustakan majalah SWA.Alhamdulillah!Kesenanganku bertambah ketika mendapati ternyata buku ini benar-benar seru!Meskipun cover dan judul buku ini terkesan berat dan membosankan, buku ini ringan.Jonah Lehrer berhasil menjelaskan dengan sangat baik.Mungkin karena itu, buku ini masuk kategori buku psikologi populer.Membuatku berpikir mengapa aku tidak menemukan buku ini lebih cepat, lebih tepatnya ketika aku mengambil mata kuliah psikologi faal atau neuropsikologi?!Buku ini terdiri dari 8 bab: Quarterback di Pocket, Prediksi-prediksi dopamin, Tertipu oleh perasaan, Peran Akal Budi, Tercekik oleh Pikiran, Moralitas, Otak yang selalu berdebat, dan kartu poker di tangan.Bagaimana engkau tahu bahwa itu benar-benar keinginanmu untuk melakukan sesuatu atau jangan-jangan hanya sejenis impuls saraf di otakmu?Sebagian besar penelitian di buku ini sebenarnya sudah pernah aku baca dan pelajari ketika kuliah psikologi dulu tapi aku tetap belajar sesuatu yang baru.
And when I thought I knew a little bit, in comes 27 year old Author - Jonah Lehrer with his Mind-Boggling Contribution to the world of Neuroscience, Psychology and Behavioral Science titled How We Decide.
Philosophers like Plato, Descartes who promulgated that pure reason was the best form to decide everything And then scholars like Soren Kierkegaard who later on acknowledged the presence & importance of the cognitive dimension to emotion; To finally in the presence of Jonah Lehrer who goes a step further into the unfathomable depths of the thinking, feeling and decision making process.
