https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77298.Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter
It was in the middle of the third story I realised what was happening: Pedro Camacho hadn’t made appearance by that time, but his electrifying radio serials were reproduced verbatim with all their pulpy gloss, alternated by the second narrative stream that concerns the narrator Marito’s account of his love affair with Aunt Julia.
Pedro Camacho was going mad and funny.It would not exaggerate to say that the novel is anchored in the character of Pedro Camacho round which Llosa weaves the semi-autobiographical story through Marito’s struggles as an aspiring writer who falls in love in an odd way, with Julia who is his aunt by marriage and thirteen years his senior, a divorcee.
Don Pedro Camacho is a either clown or a genius, the exact opposite of the alter ego he always uses as the lead character in all of his soap operas.( 'He was a man who had reached the prime of life, his fifties, and in his person – broad forehead, aquiline nose, a penetrating gaze, the very soul of rectitude and goodness – and in his bearing his spotless moral virtue was so apparent as to earn him people's immediate respect.' )Almost half of the novel consists of burlesque episodes from Pedro Camacho's popular shows, a recluse who hides from the real world and lives only though his imagination, yet somehow manages to capture not only the hearts of his audience, but the very essence of what it means to be alive in South America at the tail end of the 50's.
The central character, who narrates about half the chapters (the others are made up of short-stories) is called Mario (presumably Llosa, although it's down to readers discretion) who writes in the first person of a sequence of events apparently taken from the author’s own life.
He himself worked in his youth as a news editor for Radio Pana-mericana, studied law and wrote short stories in his spare time – and seems also to have conducted a secret and much-obstructed affair, against the will of his family, with his aunt-by-marriage, the Julia to whom the book is supposedly dedicated.
What began as an amazing wonder promising to be a masterpiece, hitting a still patch towards the half-way mark and quickening its pace towards the end, died an awful death in Chapter 20, a hateful, misogynistic, self-absorbed, malicious end that made me regret all the time I'd spent with Llosa, all the times I'd raved about him, all the books I'd ordered of his in anticipation of heartache after this one had ended.
So consider this an anti-spoiler warning and, if you do venture to read this would-be beauty, stop at Chapter 19.
); il protagonista è un personaggio ancora più apertamente autobiografico: a 19 anni (ancora minorenne), di buona (e molto larga) famiglia, svogliato studente di legge all’università di San Marcos, aspirante scrittore che produce con difficoltà, legge agli amici e infine distrugge tutta una serie di racconti, dirige comunicati giornalistici per una radio di Lima, che ha come attrazione principale per il grande pubblico i romanzi radiofonici sentimentali e sensazionalistici: prima li comprano da Cuba, poi assumono appunto Pedro Camacho, "boliviano e artista".
Come sarebbe andata a finire questa parabola di vita e arte, di amore e vocazione?
3.5/Leer a Mario Vargas Llosa se está convirtiendo en un placer. Una historia bonita pero (en mi modesta opinión) no memorable.
The modern novel is a conglomeration of different literary techniques & styles, true.
must be The preliminary question of every writer before he begins his novel.
MVL has decided, in this one, to split himself in two: the separate entities living inside the man are Marito/”Varguitas”, the ingenue romantic, who experiences a rich life, full of romance, adventures & comical characters, and Pedro Camacho, the ugly dwarf only producing and producing serial dramas with a soldier-like discipline and a robotic capacity until turning completely mad.
The writer must have these two qualities, robust living (the intrepid experience of extremes, loves, etc) & discipline, discipline, discipline.
In fact, this is not review at all.It’s been some years I read Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter for the first time.
O dear me, we’ve got everything here: romance of young boy with his sophisticated aunt Julia, scandalized at this family, oohs and aahs, gosh, how she could, she’s older, she’s divorced, she’s amoral, poor Marito, she’s ruining his life.
No matter that in the first one our hero was killed in fire already.
I’m not saying that this book saved my life; this book is neither the wisest nor the funniest I’ve ever read.
I’m only saying it helped me to survive that night.
In everyday thought, we are constantly manufacturing mental variants on situations we face, ideas we have, or events that happen, and we let some features stay exactly the same while others "slip".
Vargos Llosa is observing, recalling, and writing about his past with his aunt Julia and his memory of the scriptwriter on which the character of Camacho is based.
Vargas Llosa recalled his memory of this scriptwriter, piecing his own observation about himself as a developing young writer, and creating another man, Pedro Camacho, to help tell his semi-autobiography.

I read this after The Time Of The Hero and was relieved by the simpler narrative form with its clear
It’s easy to write a review of a good novel.
It’s also easy to write a review of bad one.
This is novel of two lives, both at critical junctures, told in two vastly different formats.
The first, semi-autobiographical, is the story of an aspiring young writer, Marito, and his courtship of his aunt by marriage.
What we do know is that he never seems quite able to balance and reconcile the two starkly different stories and formats, and this is perhaps what accounts for the uneven (and disappointing?) ending.
Given that "Marito" is a diminutive for Mario, and the character also has the nickname "Varguitas" (as in Vargas), that he's an aspiring writer in Lima, Peru and that the book is dedicated "to Julia Urquidillanes, to whom this novel and I owe so much" the autobiographical connection is obvious.
But by the time the more egregious parts came up, it was obvious those parts weren't the "real" story but the inventions of the mad scriptwriter, Pedro Camacho, who works at the same radio station where Marito holds a job.
Solo che una fuga di Bach è bella ma non fa ridere, questo romanzo invece è molto bello e strappa il sorriso spesso e volentieri.Vargas Llosa racconta la vita di un giovane scrittore, Mario/Marito/Varguitas (ci ho messo un po', tonto che sono, a capire che erano la stessa persona...), che che si intreccia con gli iperbolici romanzi radiofonici dello scribacchino Pedro, lo scrittore di drammi che fanno impazzire le folle con situazioni scabrose, tragicomiche e che diventano, man mano che il romanzo procede, sempre più ingarbugliate, truci, incestuose, paradossali.
Si intrecciano la rocambolesca storia d'amore del giovane Mario ( Marito/Varguitas) aspirante scrittore e la tía Julia ,divorziata trentaduenne e i romanzi radiofonici partoriti dalla pirotecnica fantasia dello scribacchino - novello Balzac- Pedro Camacho.
una goduria!) alle canzoni dell'aedo dei Barrios Altos , Crisanto Maravillas ,in un crescendo di passioni, misteri, segreti ,sangue, sventure ,scherzi del destino , calamità :D fino a che ...esplodono o implodono , non si capisce bene , in una divertente caciara finale ...
(romanzo e anche meta-romanzo, con una riflessione, leggera ma profonda,sulla scrittura e su chi sia lo scrittore che - si intuisce - non è un semplice e folle scribacchino ...)Una lettura gustosa , grazie Marito !
Pedro Camacho is simply compelled to write, write, write.The second story, and the more interesting one is the story of the eccentric Bolivian script-writer (Of radio serials, soap operas) Pedro Camacho, who comes to work at the same station as our protagonist.The second story and real genius of Vargas Llosa's pen really hits its stride when you soon discover that the alternating chapters are Pedro Camacho's scripts from his hugely popular radio serials!You could not make these stories up, stories so unreal, surreal and made up that they could only come from someone's excited imagination, or could they be real and actual researched gems?All the stories share in common a darkness, a murky grit, seediness, underdogs, filth, depravity, excess, and to further illustrate the writer's mind-set, his one-of-a-kind personality and peculiar character traits, we witness elements of them leaking over onto the page, we see Camacho as a racist, a sexist, bigoted and small minded, but it's all so wonderfully funny.
I think I have come finally across a writer of Latin American origin who far surpasses Garcia Marquez's ability in terms of engaging a reader.Aunt Julia and The Scriptwriter is a delightfully quirky tale of an illicit romance and the slow descent into madness of a brilliant scriptwriter.
(view spoiler)[Thus as the story advances, we see Marito and Julia's innocent flirtation develop into a serious kind of love culminating in marriage.
At the same time Pedro Camacho's titillating radio serials go from bad to worse until characters from one story begin appearing in another one in entirely new roles but similar names as his grip on reality slips.
When Mr. Llosa tries to render a real(and semi-autobiographical) relationship with his Aunt Julia his skills crumble into sophomoric platitudes that reveal his inability to actually love a woman romantically (whether it be in his own life or as a writer.)There are so many laugh-out-loud moments peppered throughout his radio scripts but the intervening chapters with aunt Julia lack any depth of character - not only his but his friends, family and particularly any women.I suppose I should have seen it coming (Spoiler Warning) when he tosses the character of Aunt Julia away like so much garbage in his final chapter, instead concentrating on his heroic writing pursuits...
Mi lascio saturare dal piacere del racconto, un piacere che nasce dalla scorrevolezza della prosa, dalla strepitosa inventiva, dalla consapevolezza, in definitiva, di aver trovato proprio quello che si cerca in un romanzo, e scopro che la vicenda portante è autobiografica e che la zia Julia è stata davvero la prima moglie di Vargas Llosa, che davvero era la sorella di sua zia Olga, la moglie dello zio Lucho, che davvero aveva 10 anni più di lui, che davvero Varguitas era poco più che diciottenne quando si diedero a quella rocambolesca fuga matrimoniale descritta nel libro.
Meanwhile, Mario is also developing an intellectual fascination with Pedro Camacho, the new scriptwriter at his radio station, an eccentric and manic writer taking Lima by storm with his captivating radio serials and slowly descending into madness in the process.Camacho’s various cliffhanger serials are described in chapters which alternate with the chapters of Mario’s unfolding story.
Can writing effectively for the masses, as opposed to the elite, be a worthy art as well?We also see Mario continually failing as he tries to compose his short stories, while Camacho’s serials enthrall the citizens of Lima.
I guess because it reminds me of how innocent of literature at the same youth, and how the story is a reflection, a manifestation, of the complex pleasures of genre writing or as in this case, radio serials...I did not expect to enjoy it so much from the first fifty pages or so, but once he begins to create the scriptwriter, once the rather bloodless romance with the aunt recedes to alternate with the extravagant chapters of the radio scripts, I found the work much more engaging.
yes, the romance is not very compelling, but the worlds of melodrama in the complex interweaving of characters in the serials, comedy and satire of the radio personalities, the radio newsmen, with whom our narrator works, make up for any lulls in so-called real life.
Se magari per un altro scrittore il tentativo di inserire un modello così diffuso e così popolare della letteratura avrebbe potuto far scorgere risvolti molto più parodici e sarcastici, è ammirabile invece come Vargas Llosa dedichi loro spazio con un senso di..dedizione e riproduzione perfetti, anche se solo momentanea e strumentale ai suoi fini “letterari” nel romanzo.
Forse è proprio come si richiamano i due mondi che lo rende un libro diverso rispetto ad una storia più lineare, che è infatti Avventure della ragazza cattiva ad esempio.
I am now convinced that there is something Shakespearean about Mario Vargas Llosa: He can be in a novel such as Conversation in the Cathedral be somber and deep, and in Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter be outright zany, ranging from Macbeth to Malvolio, and deftly too.
Both books were written about the Odria dictatorship in the 1950s, but what a world of difference!In Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter, we have a young man -- only eighteen years of age -- by the name of Mario Vargas (without the Llosa) working for a radio station that broadcasts soap operas.
Абсурдни ситуации, описани спокойно и естествено и герои, на които се симпатизира през поклащане на главата с иронична усмивка, не подозирах, че коментарът ми след време ще пасне на друг роман, пък бил той и на същия автор.
Двете сюжетни линии, на които "Леля Хулия и писачът" залага, са пипнали съвършено и за мен съвършенството се крие в привидно елементарния ход, който повествованието следва - автобиографичен сюжет, съпътстван от художествени светове, плод на лудостта и обсесията на един самозван писател.
The chapters of the book alternate between the real story of Mario and episodes of Pedro Camacho's soaps, though oddly, the latter are presented as ordinary narrative, not as scripts.The soaps are deliberately formulaic, with scandalous improbability (incest, murder, genital mutilation, rape, religious cults etc) and always ending on at least one cliffhanger.
Dead characters come back to life and others change career or family in the space of a paragraph.By the end of the book, all three main characters have undergone major upheavals in their lives, yet in some ways each is still subject to the tyrannies of work, family and mind that burdened them at the outset.Overall, it's an intriguing structure for a story, and parts of it are quite entertaining, but it never quite takes off and I found the ending rushed and unsatisfying.
Ya la historia de amor de la tía Julia bastaba para mantenerme pegado al libro, pero Vargas Llosa le añade a uno de los personajes más maravillosos que me he encontrado: Pedro Camacho, el "escribidor", al cual hace vivir una verdadera historia de amor con las historias, con el arte de escribir; un mundo imaginario maravilloso que nos comparte en todas las historias que intercala entre los capítulos.
Cada una de ellas podrían ser la base para otras tantas novelas maravillosas, y al mismo tiempo casi siempre son la historia de Pedro Camacho contada en situaciones diferentes.
I am so happy I am fluent in Spanish and was able to read this book in Llosa's native tongue (as I do with all his books).
I know this book is not as deep as "La Conversación en la Catedral", but it is still amazing.
I laughed out loud many times, and reading the frantic ramblings of Pedro Camacho towards the end of the book made me tear up from laughter.
This book gives us a glimpse into Llosa's youth; even though the book is not entirely autobiographical (for that, read "El pez en el agua), I simply adore it and will re-read it many times!
a slow burner of a book but as soon got into it the humour the book moved along quickly and loved some of the characters mentioned though and some show the dark side of llosa
Infatti la storia è divisa in due parti distinte (a capitoli alternati) per evidenziare la natura doppia dell'argomento: da una parte si racconta dell'innamoramento del giovane Marito Varguitas per sua zia Julia, e della sua dura ma entusiastica lotta per arrivare a poterla sposare nonostante fosse vedova di suo zio; dall'altra viene approfondita la vocazione letteraria dello spiantato giovane peruviano (lavoratore precario come curatore di bollettini) paragonandola con il grande successo dei romanzi radiofonici di Pedro Camacho, che arriva a catalizzare l'attenzione di una intera nazione sfornando storie sempre più incredibili (la cui sinossi viene presentata con un deliberato dilettantismo ai limiti del comico nei capitoli dispari del romanzo).
Reading, the love of reading, is what makes you dream of becoming a writer.”— Susan SontagIf you read lit to write lit, then I imagine that you will want to read Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter."But now, Varguitas, come dance with me and whisper sweet nothings in my ear.
And yes, Mario Vargas Llosa really did marry his Aunt Julia- Julia Urquidi.Read more here:https://mobile.nytimes.com/1988/05/06...Julia Urquidi wrote her side to this story - Lo Que Varguitas No Dijo- What Varguitas Didn't Say. I imagine that after reading Aunt Julia and The Scriptwriter, we will want to read this next!!Lo que Varguitas no dijoCheck out this book on Goodreads: Lo que Varguitas no dijo https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6...My Life with Mario Vargas LlosaCheck out this book on Goodreads: My Life with Mario Vargas Llosa https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...Also be sure to watch this May 14, 2018.
