https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41580312-be-here-now
He was very committed to not wearing shoes or shirts and, when he came into town he liked hanging out in the treetops in the park.
ANYWAYS, he once told me that this book changed his life so, recently when I came across it, I had to read it.And it made so much sense.
Not really in accord to my own life, but as to Michael's and others who are likely to believe that you can actually live on sunlight.But the illustrations are awesome and it was informative in it's own way.
I'd flipped through it and thought it was just a collection of philosophical sayings in the form of trippy graphics (which it is, mostly.) I noticed a copy at Ashanti's house, which impressed me, but not enough to actually start reading it.One night I was tripping for the last time with my best friend who was about to move to another state.
My friend was reading "Be Here Now" and kept saying "This is amazing, you have to read this!" I noticed then it was written by Ram Dass, a name I vaguely remembered from my parents' recollections of the sixties and my explorations of City Lights book store as a teenager.
I felt as though it contained all the beliefs, fears, and questions that I had kept secret for so long out of fear that I was the only person who could possibly view the world in such a way.
This book is not intented to be an easy read.
I feel that it is a book to be shared, a book that wants to travel, just as it's author did, to all the dark places only so it can discover how to let in the light.
A classic exploration of spirituality and consciousness by the former Harvard professor turned drug-fueled, then clean, spiritual seeker, Ram Dass.What a strange book.The first part is Ram Dass' life story.He has trouble relating exactly how his guru changed his life.
He also has trouble expressing his life changing spiritual insights.This could perhaps be because of all the LSD he experimented with, but no judgement here.I think Dass could have added another couple hundred pages to the first part and still probably not fully described his experience.The next section of the book is block text printed on, what seems to be, brown paper bags.
Ram Dass takes the wisdom of the East, and wraps it in a package a Westerner can open.
well, maybe the beginning of my spiritual road is more accurate.
Then I had my gnosis, or series of events that brought me into a direct experience with something larger than me.
Call it what you want, the divine plan, the ground of being, the true self, insanity, a hallucination...
Be Here Now, came into my life shortly thereafter, and it was as if I discovered the Rosetta Stone for my experiences.
Be Here Now is part of my fundamental understanding of the self and world.
How many of us spend inordinate amounts of time in the past or the future?
How many of us live with the assumption or hope that one day in the future, everything will be hunky dory, even if we're not satisfied now?
Don't read this book if you can't handle in-your-face challenges to your entire way of life and mode of thinking.
I try to read this book at least once a year and every time I do, it forces me to change my brain (this is a very good thing!) Besides its message, I like how it challenges the notion of what an adult book is.
There is something about a square book (the shape, not the content, man), printed on paper that is almost as thick as construction paper, with the wackiest insides EVER.
And, yes, while we are treated to an overview of Ram Dass' life, and given a primer for becoming practicing Hindus, it is the part in the middle with the mind-melding/melting pen and ink drawings accompanied by words on a page like, "You're standing on a bridge watching yourself go by," that make this book such a trip.
IT'S ALL AS SIMPLE AS THAT!As a psychedelic souvenir, or ticket to the future, this book still rocks.
Filled with anxiety about my place in the scary world of the day, I just didn't know what I should do, until a very kind yogi mentioned I should read this book.
If the Hindu overtones make you wonder if this might apply to you, forget about it and buy this book anyway.
For anyone who needs to figure out where they are headed, or why, it will teach you lessons you'll never forget and make your journey more graceful.
With drugs, particularly pharmaceuticals, being so regularly abused in our culture, it is a salutary exercise to reconsider the sixties, when some psychoactive drugs, used considerately and independently of profit-driven corporations, turned millions towards the serious study of psychology, philosophy and religion.
Richard Alpert and Timothy Leary were two prominent examples of this existential turn.Of the two erstwhile Harvard academics, Alpert's is the happier story, Alpert the wiser man.
This book, however, is Alpert at the turning point, Alpert telling the story of how L.S.D. turned him into the religious teacher, Baba Ram Dass.The story is quite fun to read, even hilarious.
It wouldn't be fair to open this book holding on to any preconceived notions about some "hippie counterculture", you might miss the message.
You must be able to accept that a book can be square in shape and that the story can be delivered as art and not only straight lines of text.
Some of those very things are what I love about Be Here Now, to read it you must truly Be Here Now. I've had this book for longer than almost every other book on my shelf and I still open it up and grow from the experience.
One might say, written by a hippie for a hippie.
But hippie or not one will not find the true value of this book without being on a certain stage of a certain journey.
The distinction that makes them the same is perhaps that the hippie will mindlessly accept and the anti-hippie will mindlessly dismiss.
Ram Dass is wise in his own way of channeling some of that Eastern wisdom into palatable delineations for the Westerner in this sort of how-to book complete with photos, drawings, hippie vernacular, etc.
I'm not comfortable rating this. From somewhere behind that all-too-familiar burnt-out hippie lingo shines moments of verisimilitude, and as much as I'd like to curl a rational upper lip and scoff, a deeply irrational part of me would be disappointed if I did so. I'll say this: it is at times compelling, and at others tedious. But as far as how many "stars" I can give it? That would be missing the point altogether.
This book, like some others I shall review, possess not only the opinions, thought and methodology of one man, but takes the tradition of many religions and 'revealed truths' and quotes them here.
I think it is perhaps necessary to the western mind to see that the perceived contradictions and esoteric leanings of 'eastern' thought can be understood by the connectedness and similarities to other ideas and words from other religions and philosophies and thinkers.
This book, like many of the books of eastern thought of its kind, can be taken in small sips.
Any book that can balance profoundity and humor has achieved a rare and beautiful harmony.
I found it totally by accident.
I had no idea it was by Alpert, or rather Baba Ram Dass, colleague of one Timothy Leary whose book Change Your Brain I'd just read months earlier.This is a one-of-a-kind "trip." No, strip back those quotations marks, they dull the effect.
This book IS a textual trip.
The book turns, the text spins, but the ideas stay together in a way that, in my case at least, really did seem to dig under the rational part of me and yank up the good stuff; the Atman; the everlasting onion bulb.If you're at all interested in exploration of self, this is probably a necessity.
I'm so glad I found it by accident, and so disappointed I have to return it.
I bought this book in 1972 (at age 11) to read in secret, then return to the bookstore some days later, for fear of discovery by my fundamentalist Christian father. I was seduced by the woodblock print on grocery-bag colored paper middle section. It left an indelible impression on me--one that would germinate 30 years later in my face-to-face encounter with Bhagavan Das, a much younger version of whom I first encountered in its pages.No other book has done more to support the healthy cross-pollenation of East and West. It is the classic text of this genre.
The truth is that while the introductory biographical stuff is interesting, and the extensive and somewhat dull guidance at the end is probably useful to people who are less inclined to eye-rolling at some of the content, the real meat of the thing, what people still come to this book for, the fancy-design-groovy-as-hell heart of the book, which I assume is the original pamphlet, is actually worth checking out.
Not only were the ideas within this 416 page softcover book made of recycled materials a shock to the religious nervous system of the American mainstream, but the very format was a mystery all its own.
Part autobiography, part Occidental psychology, part hippie philosophy, part Indian mysticism, part comic book, one was left to wonder if the text was meant to be read in the conventional manner, or somehow absorbed by simply chanting the contents out loud.
Truly a piece of 20th century American spiritual history that should be experienced by all.
When you are ready to expand your mind, pick this up...
Ram Dass could have written an essay about the kinds of things he talks about, but by going about in this way he gets around the Rational Mind (a big obstacle to genuinely new information for the westerner) and gets straight to the heart, which is what he is trying to communicate with.
The title of this section is "Painted Cakes Do Not Satifsy" - his fancy way of saying that one does not progress spiritually by merely reading books, though it can be helpful.
The book raises multiple questions: 1) the issue of drugs and psychedelics, 2) professors are not always skeptical and purely rational 3) one can radically change his life, and there is a method to it.At the beginning of his trip to India Ram Dass (then still Richard Alpert) gave LSD to different people and asked for their opinion.
Who knows, maybe the answer was that these authors were active in the 60’s, while now there are different times, and professors present themselves in a different light?In terms of the ‘cook-book’ for a life change, Ram Dass provides multiple quotes from holly and less holly books of different traditions, suggesting that all say the same thing.
I am not finished yet but I wanted to go ahead and write this review because I already know that this here is a great book.
Be here now contains so much wisdom sweetened and condensed so as to help it reach right down into your soul.
Will having had experience with psychedelics help you to understand this book?
Perhaps, but I swear there is so much Truth in it that you wouldn't even need to be able to read in order to get something from it.
Go ahead and read it, even if you don't like it, it is a modern spiritual classic and you can enjoy it just for your cultural education.
Basically, it feels like "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," in the Himalayas with a guru (which is not surprising, since both were published the same year).I found this book entertaining, somewhat enlightening, and often downright delusional.
Ram Dass spins a great yarn, and his stories are a great insight into the period in which this was written.
I find it ironic that this book is entitled "Be Here Now," when most of the focus is NOT on being present, but on spiritual gurus and the supernatural, which seems to me to be almost the exact opposite.
How is chasing enlightenment via gurus and miracles not a distraction from that?
Ram Das, originally named Richard Alphert, taught with Timothy Leary at Harvard in the 1950's.
Together they experimented with psychedelics such as LSD and conducted clinical studies with students.
He found his guru, Maharaji, who renamed him Ram Das---"Servant of God." The first section of Be Here Now describes Ram Das' experience with psychedelics, his journey through India, and his powerful relationship with his Guru.
It is a series of psychedelic drawings which combine words and images to point towards the mystical experience.
It's really beyond words, and these drawings can be turned to again and again and always show you something new.
Also, drugs are bad please keep that in mind at all times.
Gave it a three star, but in all honesty I hated and loved this book equally, though at different times.
At first, I loved it.
As it impacted my life, I slowly developed a feel for it that turned into a plain outright "I deeply wish I had never read this" That said, for me this book was profound and ground breaking, and certainly left its mark on me.
Now is the Time!!!!
For a non-religious spiritually inclined person, this has a lot to offer in terms of the possibilities of expanding one's consciousness, and can inspire the beginning of a spiritually awakened life.
For a person who has caught a glimpse of being one with the universe using psychedelics, this will bring that experience into perspective, and show you that similar but less temporary states are possible with meditative practices.
For a dogmatically religious person or a staunchly non-spiritual person, I am afraid that this book will further confirm their beliefs.
If you have an open mind, this book will have something to offer you.
I really appreciate the concept of living in the now. I truely believe that if we can find happiness now, our life will not be filled with regret. I did feel like the book was very disjointed, and that the message would have probablly have been better portrayed if the author had not done quite so much LSD on the path to spiritual enlightenment, but nonethelass, the message is a good one. The illustrations are beautiful in a very trippy way. Overall, I am glad to have read the book.
This book was recommended to me by a friend of mine. I found it to be a very insightful, knowledgeable, and powerful read on yoga and spirituality. Ram Dass was able to mix aspects Christianity with aspects of Eastern religions and it works great. I may not agree with everything but this book was a wonderful book with some beautiful illustrations.
i read over and over and am always reminded of how wonderful it is to be here NOW.
"Be Here Now" includes a brief autobiographical introduction from Ram Dass (formerly known as Richard Alpert), a zen koan-like middle passage full of different ways to see reality, a concluding section detailing various methods that one can undertake in his or her spiritual journey, a glossary of terms, and an amazing list of books to read at the end.The autobiographical section did not impress me as much as I had originally hoped, but that was mainly because I was looking forward to reading the middle passage, with its inspiring artwork and psychedelic calligraphy.
But even though I knew about this book during my sadhana, I didn't read this book during my journey.
That it is always important to be in the present moment -- looking back at the past or creating expectations for the future tend to only bring pain in the present moment, so it's best to experience life moment by moment, deeply, as it happens (something I'm taking to heart in my new life where if you are not fully present changing a diaper, you get peed on.
So even if you're looking at this book as solely a curious historical document, you will probably find something in it for you.Ultimately, if this book is for you, your soul will attract it and you will read it.
