https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/408230.Techniques_of_the_Selling_Writer
It's a book that's full of commonsense tips stuffed with unnecessary explanation.
What little useful information is available would be more appropriate in the form of a 100-tips blog post.It's expensive for such an old book in e-book format ($16.17).
I really don't think that reading this is going to help people sell more books unless they have no idea what they're doing nor how to begin writing a story.Also, the chapter on how to actually sell the book is one page and it's useless in the current publishing era.I did highlight a number of things, but many of them are things that I do already (because they are commonsense).My advice would be to purchase a modern book on how to write books that sell.
I honestly can't believe I haven't stumbled upon this book before now. I can't even remember having heard about it, but perhaps I did and dismissed it as a marketing book based on its title. Suffice it to say, I'm glad I've read it now. Although dated in some of its presentation, this book is a gold mine of practical tips. Swain's advice on scenes and sequels and motivation-reaction units have long since entered the writing canon, and his thoughts on structure, character, and the writing life in general are invaluable. My highlighter was very busy!
It tells you the building blocks of writing an appropriate sentence or reaction and then reminds you that the most important thing to keep in your book, is emotion.Sure, sure, characters and plot are important.
Yes, some of the examples and references are completely out of date, this was written quite a while ago, but the logic is sound.So many plot, characterization, and sentence structure issues could have been avoided if I had read this book first.
This is a must have book for any fiction writer, and a must read for any scribe planning on writing a story.
Reality can be impersonal, harsh, even nasty.
But if we conquer a part or aspect of reality, it turns into our friend and ally.
This book is tough on the author, but if he/she takes its principles to heart, it will put his/her writing on a new level.
Sticking to the right principles no matter what.
For more than twenty years he taught a professional writing program at the University of Oklahoma.
This book reveals the principles that can turn your copy into a bestseller.
A must read for any author.
The only drawback: the book was written before the Internet era.
I'm--Excited and sad.Excited that this is an amazing book that FULLY and COMPELLINGLY covers the fundamentals of the craft of writing, and sad that I should've read this four years ago when I started writing.Most of the books on writing have nuggets of advice that can be applied to your writing.
If you can't tell a good story, don't bother writing for publication; people want to be entertained, not nod off.The book gives you everything you need to write good stories - how to write scenes, how to structure the beginning, middle, and end, how to portray characters, and how to actually sit down and write.Read it and master it.
Sure, Techniques of the Selling Writer is showing its age.
His language is at times inadvertently sexist, the brief section on the difference between heroines and heroes seems laughable now, and the advice on typewriter ribbons is quaint, but please dear reader, don't miss the wood for the trees.
Accept that the book was written in 1965 and see what still applies -- so much does.
It's packed with practical advice but steers clear of cookie-cutter systems and "rules" in favour of suggestions of what works and why.
There are a handful of books on the craft that writers should read, and we all have our favourites.
When I first picked up my pen (keyboard?) to take writing seriously, I ran across Randy Ingermanson's website on How To Write The Perfect Scene.
His explanation was a distilled version of what Mr. Swain discusses in this most excellent book.Until I'd come across this, I floundered with how to write something compelling.
It taught me how to write well-considered and executed scenes as well as started me on the path on how to read critically as well.My writing world opened up because of this book.
But Swain is (was) a master at teaching the craft.
I got my copy through Amazon for Three Bucks + shipping ($7 total) and I would gladly pay 10 TIMES THAT AMOUNT for the information presented!Swain easily unpacks the process of building the novel and makes it understandable in layman's terms.
Now I'm going back through and re-reading it for more gems I may have missed!If you're an author, buy this book!
If you want to be an author, buy this book!
If you've thought: I'd love to writer the Great American Novel, but I could never do that, buy this book!
I read it from start to finish before starting a novel and I read it again when I have finished, to see how I did.You need to get past Swain's somewhat dated attitudes (complete with more than a little sexism).
This book was written fifty years ago and it shows.
Swain breaks story-telling down into its constituent parts, then builds it up again, showing you how to structure and balance your work using motivation and response, scene and sequel and a dozen other easy-to-use techniques.The book is aimed unashamedly at the 'selling writer'.
A lot of 'literary fiction' authors would also benefit from reading Swain's advice.
The short answer: There are many better books, period.
This is the only book that I've ever returned.Stein On Writing: A Master Editor of Some of the Most Successful Writers of Our Century Shares His Craft Techniques and Strategies is Comprehensive and detailed with a plethora of examples.
Two techniques, which I haven't seen described in this useful and epiphanic way in any other book, stand out: particularity and triage revising.

IT CAME FROM THE SLUSH PILE!!!Back in the pre-computer dark ages I was sentenced to cull the slush pile of a best forgotten magazine, Cthulu has nothing on that horror.
Swain provides meticulous instructions on how to write basic pulp, even if you're a James Joyce wannabee, you should learn the basic forms before mutilating them.
The basics though are timeless and of the various writing books I've been exposed to, for fiction, this seems to be the best basic instruction book.I don't write fiction but I may buy it anyway, I would give it another star then.
This is one of the best books on the actual craft of writing that I've read. This is an excellent resource for the aspiring writer. I highly recommend this book.
And despite having read quite a lot of that sort of fiction in my life, sitting down to reproduce it myself reveals a surprisingly thin understanding of how it's actually done.For the most part I found Techniques a refreshingly straightforward and to the point explanation of the most basic elements of fiction.
The last couple of chapters give a lot of very general advice about markets, motivation, etc, that I didn't find particularly useful.This is one aspect in which the book really shows its age.
I did find it a bit slow reading—perhaps that's because of the sheer density of useful information packed into Swain's concise sentences; or it may be because my mood/current circumstances weren't right for absorbing it quickly.One thing to note briefly: in contrast to the last (excellent) book on writing that I read, The Anatomy of Story by John Truby, which makes a case for theme and moral argument being the backbone of a good story, Swain puts a lot of emphasis on a writer's ability to manipulate readers' emotions.
It's definitely helpful to understand how a reader reacts and know how to deliver the feeling of satisfaction they get from a good book; but I think this angle is best as a companion/addition to the somewhat deeper stuff dealt with in Truby's book.
Originally published over forty years ago, this is still an excellent reference. Writers who are learning the craft as well as those who want to sharpen their skills should read this book. It’s filled with practical examples of what makes solid fiction that sells. Let’s face it, most likely we are not writing the great American novel. But if you want to make a living as a writer, this book just might help get you there.
An oldie but a goodie. After more than eight years of reading writing books and blogs, I’ve come across most – if not all – the techniques covered in this 1965 book. Mind you, it never hurts to be reminded. Techniques of the $elling Writer is actually one of those books that I wish I’d read when I was first starting out. A worthy addition to any writer’s bookshelf.
Review to come
I’m only just now joining the world of writers, and I’m learning that writers have a certain style they use to talk to each other.
They use too many ellipses, wind back and forth, and appeal too much to the sense of the artist.This book has that disease.
I’m sure it has many great things about writing in it, but reading it felt like listening to an MFA.
And while people who read a book about writing might be MFAs, the readers of those people are probably not.I am just not into the “classical writers” thing.
So if you do, then this book is probably a lot more for you.
This is the best book on writing I've ever read, and I've read a lot of them.
As the title denotes, it's targeted at aspiring writers who wish to publish their books.
You can learn about MRU's in a zillion places now, but that only scratches the surface of everything this book has to offer.
So many books focus on novel structure, and storytelling, but few do a better job (or even focus at all) on composing the actual words and sentences.
If you plan on writing novels, you must read this book.
This was EXCELLENT, and I recommend it to anyone who wants to write popular fiction.
I had considered giving 'Techniques of the Selling Writer' a low rating whilst reading, because for all its helpful and heartfelt writing techniques, planning and human insight, it does drag on for far too long.
There is also the casual sexism for something written in the 1960s, and the author continuously assumes that his readers - and most professional writers - will be male by default.But 'Techniques of the Selling Writer' isn't really dry, and the last third made up for the monotonous page-turning I endured in the middle.
In his book, Mr. Swain hammers in the importance of feeling and projecting your creative, lively passion into your work, something I agree with wholeheartedly.
This is definitely going into my top 3 books about writing.
I doubled back and re-read passages, not just because I was tired and distracted, but also because I could instantly see the implications for various stories I've written and/or am working on.
It hit all my weak points as a writer, and the author's beliefs on why writers write, and how to do your own best work pretty much coincide with my own thoughts on the matter...
Beautifully written, endlessly helpful, with an absolutely insane amount of information for what seems like a thin book.
He sets out guidelines upon guidelines, makes lists within lists like some crazed student and his study notes, and yet ultimately all he does is give us the heart of what a story is.
Truly one of the most influential books on writing I've read or will ever hope to read; so full of tips and content that I'll surely reread it over and over in the years to come; so eloquently put that every single time, it will blow me away again.
I think novice writers would get a lot out of it, and even people like me (who've read a LOT of books about writing) could get some useful tips.The title is not a misnomer.
Swain teaches you how to write pulp.
However, even if your artistic aspirations are a bit higher, there's still good advice that can be transferred to slightly more highbrow writing.The reason this book doesn't get 5 stars is that Swain is an ASS.
The book was written in the 1960s and I suppose that's some excuse, but Swain's sexism radiates off the pages.
This book contains invaluable data for any writer (or indeed, a storyteller of any medium—screenwriters would benefit from it tremendously).
The data, techniques and strategies enclosed will help you become a better writer.However, paradoxically, I found the book to be incredibly hard to read.
This is a crippling lack for a book with as many sections, sub-sections, and sub-sub-sections as this book has.The data within is well worth learning—you just have to work very, very hard to get it.
My experience with "how to write" books is overwhelmingly that they are 250ish pages of self-congrat
Good book, but the author's style often got to me as I was reading it. I think it has a lot of value to the writer, especially the beginner, but even seasoned pros could glean something from this book.
There is a reason this book has continued selling since 1965. It's because it's a brilliantly insightful look at writing and selling your work. A must read for any writer!
There's a lot of text for a succesion of if... than... else... repeat. Maybe the editor is paying by the word. Talking about creative writing!
