https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43372.The_Missionary_Position
Now, though, after I have—like all of us—endured twenty years of Christian assaults on our democracy, from both Protestant dominionists and Catholic irredentists, who conceal their political daggers beneath the simple peasant cloak of morality, I respect Hitchens’ criticism of Mother Teresa much more than I did before.He shows us a woman who, although she claimed to be apolitical, never met an oppressive right-wing party she didn’t like, provided of course that it opposed abortion and contraception: Haiti’s “Baby Doc,” Ethiopia’s Dergue, the royalist survivors of Franco’s Spain, and the supporters of the contras of Nicaragua and the death squads of El Salvador--all have contributed to her efforts and received her praise.
Actually, this is a follow-up read to Mother Teresa: The Untold Story by Dr. Aroup Chatterjee, where he took apart the myth of this modern day saint with great precision.
In cricketing parlance, Mother Teresa: The Untold Story is a test match: this book is a 20/ 20 hitabout.Hitchens's aim is clear.
(And Pope John Paul II, who was beatifying and canonising with a sort of divine frenzy, couldn't wait to convert her into a saint.) It makes for fascinating reading.***There are enough documented examples in this book to leave any neutral person with no doubt about the Mother.
I really didn't need to read this book to figure out that Mother Teresa was just another globalist tool and a propaganda/fundraising cash cow for the Catholic church but Missionary Position does a good job of driving that point home and giving good solid evidence to that fact.
Also people were not given proper pain medication (Mother Teresa had this idea that the more you suffered the closer you were to Christ!) So you had things like this going on but at the same time it was found out in just the bank account for her shelters in the New York area there was $50 million dollars sitting idly.
Mother Teresa is probably the last person I'd expect to be the target of an angry expose.In this short volume, Christopher Hitchens includes the following points:1.
The West feels a need to believe they are helping the poor savages of the East; Mother Teresa publicly fills that need for them independent of the degree of help she is actually contributing.Hitchens' writing is sharp and on-target, and he certainly makes an interesting case.
Mother Teresa is a religious figure and does not claim otherwise; it's only natural that she would promote anti-abortion views and consort indiscriminately with despised characters, feeling that God loves everybody.
A forceful and convincing (if somewhat strident) destruction of the myth of Mother Teresa.
Christopher Hitchens takes on quite a few angles of the ‘sacredness of Mother Teresa’.One of the most convincing is the squalor of the hospices in Calcutta and elsewhere.
Very little of the donated money (and this is in the millions) goes into improving the facilities.
Aspirins are the only anaesthetics provided to terminally ill patients.
Needles are recycled on different patients.
What has Mother Teresa done to empower the people of Calcutta, to educate them and to prevent them from dying in the streets?
Where has all the money gone from the donations?
2. Despite the millions of dollars donated to her organization, she actively stood in the way of high-quality healthcare for her clinics, and kept them poor and struggling to treat those in need (in interest of ascetic soul-strengthening).
It also led to huge donations from governments as well as individuals, which were then not used efficiently to actually help the poor.
I think the world is being much helped by the suffering of the poor people."There were more complaints, but this is all I can recall at the moment.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]04:09:2016: The day she was made a saint, I revisited Hell's Angel["br"]>["br"]>
This book is for the secular or casually religious who consider the late nun as the exemplar of charity, compassion, humility, and devoutness.
Hitchens cites testimonials that make it appear that people under the care of the Missionaries of Charity suffered needlessly not because of a lack of funds, but because Mother Theresa sought to maintain conditions of poverty.
Better care for patients under their care was not provided, not because Mother Theresa was unable to provide, but because she was unwilling to provide it.Hitchens also ridicules Mother Theresa's supposed refusal to engage in politics.
"The naive and simple are seldom as naive and simple as they seem, and this suspicion is reinforced by those who proclaim their own naïveté and simplicity.
There is no conceit equal to false modesty"2018 is my year of Hitch.
What a pleasure.
My only quibble is at 100 pages with a large font, it is quite a bit shorter than I was expecting.
Surely there was plenty more meat on the carcass for him to sink his teeth into?
Luckily, I have god is not Great on hand to fill the void.
A well-researched and excellently written book that exposes the monster and charlatan that was Mother Teresa.
Mother Theresa had only one thing in mind to "save people for Jesus." She looked upon poor folks only to convert them.
In fact, Mother Teresa consistently resisted any moves to have adequate medical care there, while she availed herself of the best hospitals in the Western world when she was battling her own medical ailments.
Once you read this book, Mother Teresa will appear to be no more than an opportunistic and religious fundamentalist whose love for religious dogma far exceeded her love for the poor.
From the blurb:Among his many books, perhaps none have sparked more outrage than The Missionary Position, Christopher Hitchens's meticulous study of the life and deeds of Mother Teresa.
Add his other intellectual warfare against religions as 'despotism of the sky' to the message in this book, and its becomes understandable why Mother Theresa, as the icon for what was noble and holy to the world of the religious enclaves, became one of his primary targets.
Being a huge fan of Christopher Hitchens' work, I knew exactly what to expect and voilá this book delivered.
Dutta, incidentally, felt that on balance Mother Teresa was not a bad thing for Calcutta, but felt that her mission would do well by devoting itself to, “… looking after the poor as well as the dying by offering proper medical care.” The word ‘proper’ is important.
Hitchens quotes evidence that helpers in the Calcutta mission were instructed to mop the foreheads of the dying as if they were actually soothing them, when in reality they were quietly baptising the sufferers before they passed away.It would seem from Hitchen’s book that Mother Teresa’s principal aims were those of the Roman Catholic Church; proselytising, prevention of abortion, and condemnation of birth control.
Teresa was a fond one for abortion (despite being a virgin and not knowing anything about what it’s like to give birth, and sex, besides the end product) and made it the subject of her speech when she won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 (a win that remains questionable as to what she actually contributed to world peace or peace in any single country), claiming that abortion was the biggest threat to mankind.
There will never be an audit because it’s the Catholic Church but given the basic requirements of her homes, it seems likely that a lot of it didn’t go into helping the poor.
From the overly catty title to the confused layout, the book is frustrating when it should be enlightening and only works for about fifteen pages in the middle when substance is finally allowed to triumph over style.Hitchens has some fantastic observations about the misguided ways in which Mother Theresa "helps" the poor but in fact just makes them suffer.
This book needed to guide the reader, but Hitchens never constructs anything like a narrative.I view this as a blown opportunity.
2,5It was an interesting book, above all the depositions of volunteers that have worked in Mother Teresa's hospital.
The rest of the book is interesting too and the author shows how Mother Teresa didn't really worry about the poor and the sick, but wanted only to instill them her religious believes and, above all, the endurance of suffering in order to be nearer to Jesus.
The rest is interesting too but I had the impression the book had no "order", there wasn't a real logic to follow from the start to the end.
A Bengali woman named Monica Besra claims that a beam of light emerged from a picture of MT, which she happened to have in her home, and relieved her of a cancerous tumor.
Later in that same year, she told Ladies Home Journal that she was pleased by the divorce of her friend Princess Diana, because the marriage had so obviously been an unhappy one …This returns us to the medieval corruption of the church, which sold indulgences to the rich while preaching hellfire and continence to the poor.
To aid in this point, Hitchens marshals testimony from medical professionals who had visited the Missionaries of Charity home for the dying in India, who nearly unanimously decried the unacceptable conditions under which people were receiving treatment.The charges grouped in the first category are of varying degrees of severity and relevance, and one gets the sense that Hitchens's personal political views have colored the analysis significantly.
She sat on millions of dollars of donations that could have provided the best medical care in India and sat with those in need and told them that their sorrows were the loving kisses of Jesus and that to take away the pain and the poverty was to take away the source of their salvation.
Hitchens includes a copy of her faux naïf letter to Judge Ito on behalf of Keating during his trial as well as the prosecutor's letter to Mother Teresa suggesting that if she really valued following the example of Christ, she would return the stolen funds Keating donated to the rightful owners--a letter to which she never responded.This is book that needed to be written.
Beggars belief how this lady got the Nobel Prize or was not asked to leave India and shut down her Missionaries of 'Dying'.
Have had first-hand experience of how some Christian missionaries in India try to lure school-children too into reading their scriptures but many of them also provide invaluable service to society by running a no.
Service, which, Mother Teresa's organisation(s) didnt do according to the author and were only concerned with getting converts.Secondly, I am a strong supporter of freedom-of-expression and was extremely dismayed at the storm raised when some1 questioned Mother Teresa's credentials and work.
Hitchens is to atheist science-ists what C.
I read this book and pretty much hated it.
Instead, I find petulance and nastiness take over, just like when I read any kind of fundamentalist, whether it be Christian, Islamic, liberal, feminist, American exceptionalist, or whatever.
Fundamentalism is fundamentalism, and Hitchens is as fundamentalist as they come.
Here is the biggest problem: Given the author and subject, the book practically writes itself.
If I had made up some details, I could have written a near word-for-word parody of the book without having even read it.
HOLY COW! (literally)
Notes: (view spoiler)[Mary Loudon, a volunteer in Calcutta who has since written extensively about the lives of nuns and religious women, has this testimony to offer about the Home for the Dying.My initial impression was of all the photographs and footage I've ever seen of Belsen and places like that, because all the patients had shaved heads.
So Jesus must be kissing you." Unconscious of the account to which this irony might be charged, she then told of the sufferer's reply: "Then please tell him to stop kissing me." There are many people in the direst need and pain who have had cause to wish, in their own extremity, that Mother Teresa was less free with her own metaphysical caresses and a little more attentive to actual suffering.
Hitchens - brilliant in his prose, unpopular in his opinions. I will reserve my opinion on Agnes until I've read some more on the subject, preferably of the other side as well, though that might not go well with my patience.
Although Hitchens realized “What we have here,” with Mother Teresa “is a saint in the making, whose sites and relics will one day be venerated and who is already the personal object of a following that is not much short of cultish.” Although I doubt even he foresaw the speed with which it would happen, he understood the trivial proselytizing and propagandistic nature of Mother Teresa’s life and how it would fit into the Church’s public relations business model.
It makes a good story that might bring in more followers and money, principles and faith be damned.
To simply accompany select poor, providing them with mere pietisms in place of any effective relief or respite, whilst accepting a veritable degree of medical attention for herself, indeed seems to imply fraudulence of a kind, given the lavishing of flattery the lady accepted as no more than her due.But perhaps even more striking an example of hypocrisy is Mother Teresa's apparent decision to obstruct justice, by failing to return a none-too-trivial sum of $1,250,000 donated by a convicted fraudster, not least after having received a heartfelt letter, containing religious references and citations, no less, from a Mr Turley, a state prosecutor pursuing the abovementioned conviction.
In this brief but powerful book, Hitchens lays out his case against Mother Teresa.
As if all this weren't bad enough, after letting people suffer needlessly, Mother Teresa trained her volunteers to secretly baptize them without permission in their final moments.
Hitchens details Mother Teresa's partnerships with despots and scoundrels.
Hitchens also quotes a response from one of the prosecutors in the case, in which he informed Mother Teresa that Keating had given her stolen funds and asked that she return the money to the rightful owners.
Another mark against Mother Teresa is her tireless effort to insert Catholic doctrine into the laws of nations around the world.
The fourth or fifth of his books that I have read, I find Hitchens's writing to be consistently acerbic, honed, cultured, and funny.
I don't think I've ever picked up a Hitchens title without broadening my cultural perspective a bit, and without learning a new word or two, as often as not some archaic Anglo-Saxonism--case in point, "pelf", meaning "money", from the same root as "pilfer".As far as the subject of Hitchens's scrutiny goes, unlike his other two book-length polemics--on Henry Kissinger and Bill & Hillary Clinton-- few people have the courage to say anything ill about this subject.
Hitchens makes a compelling case against her enterprise.
"Mother Teresa in theory and practice." As Hitchens points out, his aim in this little jewel is to convince people to judge her by her actions and not her reputation.
As the author says, "the point of her endeavours is not the honest relief of suffering but the promulgation of a cult based on death and suffering and subjection." Of course, when faced with her own heart problems, she checked into the finest and costliest clinics and hospitals in the West!
Personally, I think she was probably a very good woman, but it's apparent that her methods in helping the poor were often misguided, to say the least.
However, I think he goes too far in suggesting that Mother Teresa was motivated by power and greed.
Hitchens seems to be just a little too comfortable thinking the worst of her in any given situation.
Still, this is an important book in some respects, and a good reminder not to put people on too high a pedestal, whether it be Mother Teresa or Hitchens himself.
Let us rather be motivated by what Mother Teresa herself claimed was her dearest concern, the compassionate care of those who are poor, those who are disabled, those who are sick or dying or in great pain.If these are our concerns, then the evidence Hitchens presents is damning.
Mother Teresa had at her disposal "immense quantities of money and material." The home was as it was because it reflected Mother Teresa's philosophy of suffering and the poor.Dr. Fox's account is supplemented by the observations of Mary Loudon, a volunteer at the Home of the Dying whose testimony Hitchens obtained.
