https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150221.Selected_Poems
Bringing together the best of John Ashbery’s verse, Selected Poems showcases the poet’s wit and cleverness. Many of the 138 poems in the collection are best approached as something to be experienced, not analyzed or fully understood. Ashbery’s penchant for the surreal and the obscure makes much of his work difficult, even tedious, to read. Ironically, his best lines are those that are the least pretentious and the most candid, but all his poems are musical and a few worth reading.
I believe my eyes have passed over every line in the past few months, even if in some sense Ashbery remains permanently unreadable, unassimilable to the vanities of goodreads.
We are to read this in outward things: the spoons and greasy tables in this room, the wooden shelves, the flyspecked ceiling merging into gloom - good and happy things, nevertheless, that tell us little of themselves and more about ourselves than we had ever imagined it was possible to know.*The appeal of Ashbery is that he writes one continuous poem, sort of a confession, but not a personal confession.
Secondly, we must decide whether the messenger has something further to convey to us; that is whether or not (in this case) the poet, having disabused us of our simplemindedness has some better mode of apprehending reality, or is merely telling us that there is no meaning to be had.
It does matter.Today almost nobody takes poetry seriously and no one thinks of the poet as having any social responsibility; but I believe that when the religious frauds leaders have nothing left in their arsenal and when the poets cannot fill in the blanks, and apparently pride themselves on not having a clue, then our corporate masters are left to do the job of defining reality; a job for which they are willing and, in lieu of any resistance, have proven entirely able.
In his verse, Ashbery attempts to mirror the stream of perceptions of which human consciousness is composed.[...] My poetry is disjunct, but then so is life." His poems move, often without continuity, from one image to the next, prompting some critics to praise his expressionist technique and others to accuse him of producing art that is unintelligible, even meaningless.This book contains a selection of poems made by the poet from books published up to 1984: Some Trees (1956), The Tennis Court Oath (1962), Rivers and Mountains (1966), The Double Dream of Spring (1970), Three Poems (1972), Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror(1975), Houseboat Days (1977), As We Know (1979), Shadow Train (1981) and A Wave (1984).
This present book was published in 1985 and thus contains selections of his works, self-chosen, only up to that time, his subsequent poetry also being well worth exploring for the interested reader.I find Ashbery’s work to be intriguing and generally delightful.
But I don’t think that one is obligated to try to “solve” or completely understand everything at the first or even the tenth reading, and I prefer initially to read his poetry as an aural experience alone, simply reading aloud and listening to the sonorities of his writing, the rhythms and alliterations, the rolling and unfolding of the music.
John Ashbery is arguably the greatest American poet of the latter half of the 20th century, and this is a collection of his finest work.
After reading the first half of this collection I wasn’t thinking about giving it a high rating, due the the annoying way he associates non-related things (and often using poor grammar).
And I’m glad I did, because by the time the second half rolled around, Ashbery’s dissociative antics started to loosely make sense to me, and I found some of the best poems I’ve ever read.
It's often strange looking at a person's entire career and holding it in your hands. There are stretches of pages that I absolutely loved and would read again followed by stretches I wish I hadn't allowed myself to sit through. I guess Ashbery's a pretty polarising figure in poetry, so maybe this is a normal reaction to him, though I think people tend to hate or love. I find that I love him and I hate him, over and over.Definitely worth picking up, though. There's a lot of great poetry in here.
a perfect collection, one of my very favorites. keeping this out to reference frequently, not putting it back on the bookshelf.
This thick volume of Ashbery's selected poems has sat on my bookshelf for years intimidating me.
I picked it up a few times and could only get a poem or two into it before being frustrated by its complexity and opaqueness.
This time I decided I was going to tough my way through the entire volume.
Strangest damn thing - now I'm an Ashbery fan.
As they say, familiarity breeds appreciation, and the more I got into Ashbery's work, the better I understood and admired it.
I found he is at his best in his longer poems (and boy does he have some long ones).
People call Ashbery a polarizing figure in poetry, so I'll be even more of a contrarian by saying that some of his work is an absolute revelation-- Self-Portrait is just as amazing as I remember-- and some is really just opacity covering up for a lack of ideas, his prose writing being an especially egregious offender.But... Self-Portrait, and some of the early poems, like The Instruction Manual. Surrealism at its finest.
There are few poets I enjoy more than John Ashberry.The way he puts words to paper and transforms words to thoughts are eloquently beautiful and, at times, brutally blunt.Nothing compares. One just needs to read; open up a book of his, skim some lines, become engrossed. It's waiting, those words on paper.
pretentious gibberish.
Ashbery and O’Hara, in particular, were avid moviegoers, and the great sensory shift that comes from abandoning yourself to the darkness of a movie theater seems ingrained in the New York School aesthetic — it loses none of its joy in the translation from one medium to the other.John Ashbery, perhaps the most revered American poet living today, has won the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award in poetry, and has collected numerous other laurels.
Poems convey a message in direct proportion to John's heart.A selfless individual with a servants heart.From a humble man with a deep relevant aura.Can be reflective at times in the imaginative sense.His work appeals to the average novice just trying to labor for their legal tender.Each poem that is presented is a sorted variation in a dream.I humbly applaud his efforts in a remarkable writing.
John Ashbery's "Selected Poems" is a delightfully profound look into the career of a literary giant. Ashbery's style of poetry is notably complex. Most of his poems deal with writing, especially writing poetry. In these examinations, however, Ashbery seldom misses an opportunity to paint a beautiful image or human portrait.
Try as I might, I can't seem to get anything out of Ashbery. It's all interchangeable word salad to me. I dunno why I even finished this book to be honest, it felt like reading the same poem 130 times.
From the early virtuosity of Some Trees and The Tennis Court Oath through the triumphs of The Double Dream of Spring and the Pulitzer Prize-winning Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror to the latest brilliance of Wave--each new collection of John...
One of the few poetry collections I return to for solace, entertainment and brain expansion. An avant-garde of the extra-sensual.
811.54 A8198s 1985
I want to read the whole thing through. I am never gonna be done reading this one. It's like Leaves of Grass in that way.
Beautiful imagery, but I finished most poems without a clear idea of wtf John Ashbery was trying to say (and I think that people who claim to understand him are full of shit).
Read The Skaters.
It's Ashbery, 'nuff said.
You know. It's Ashbery.
