https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574127.Coming_Through_the_Rye
I still reread them all the time because I love believing in the happy endings, Like most of Hill's novels it is about a beautiful young woman (Romayne) who needs the help of a man (Evan) to get through a tough situation.
Through the story they discover themselves, their faith, and they fall n love.
This story starts with Romayne hating Evan for seemingling destroying her family.
She has to deal with her conflicting troubles and emotions, while Evan deals with guilt over hurting the woman he's falling in love with.
Grace Livingston Hill in her new book, “Coming Through the Rye” Book Eight in the Love Endures series published by Barbour Publishing, Inc. takes us into the life of Romayne Ransom.From the back cover: “Another lightning glance went around the circle.
Originally written in 1928 “Coming Through the Rye” is a wonderful story of how God can take our circumstances and change them to the better.
Romayne didn’t know that due to the collapse of family funds her father and brother had taken to bootlegging.
I think “Coming Through the Rye” is an exciting story and a wonderful romance that will keep you reading as to what happens next.
Romayne Ransom has a huge shock discovering that her beloved father has been involved in shady dealings.
Leading them is Evan Sherwood, who feels awful about having to push Romayne into such an upsetting discovery and basically killing her innocence and childhood.
Her brother, also involved, is arrested, but cares not for anyone's plight but his own, and is shamelessly willing to use Romayne, uncaring how that makes everything harder on her.
Romayne now has no one to lean on, and is stubbornly insistent on not receiving help from Sherwood.
Sherwood, however, feels for this girl, in spite of her unfairly blaming him, and helps her from behind the scenes.
It's also fun to read books that were written many decades ago: you get interesting insights into the culture that people living today and writing about that time just don't know.
(Not this book.) Also the slang some characters use is so interesting to read; so much of it sounds ridiculous but is obviously authentic to that time.
(I'm reminded how my English teachers always said to never use slang when you write, because people will read it in the future and won't understand it.) Minor beef: I HATE the covers chosen; the publishers didn't care a bit about portraying what the story was actually about.
I wanted to see what Grandma's were giving to their granddaughters in 1926.
Story: Young Christian girl, Romayne Ranson has been brought up to respect elders, and care for others.
Unbeknown to her, due to lack of monies in her household, her father and brother have become members of a bootleggers business.
Many adventures ensue for this young Christian lady, who has no clue of the ways of the world.
This book describes the Class System at the time of Prohibition, and the lack of concern for the poor by the upper class.
i've been interested in reading some books by Hill. I knew she was a well known christian writer but I didn't know what her books were like. I like that her books take place in the past and have strong female's as the leading role. This novel was very short, which i think most of her books are that way. But, she wrote so many! I feel her writing is a bit predicatable and she doesn't develop the characters much, but i will probably read some more of them.
I love books by Grace Livingston Hill.
Frankly I don't remember anything about this book except that I picked it up because it made me think of Catcher in the Rye, which I loved and that I wanted it to be better than it was.
I love Grace Livingston Hill's books, mainly because she writes from a different era.
Though the publishers tried to update her books by putting a 70's picture on the front, her stories are still set in the classic Grace Livingston Hill time period, the 30's and 40's.
This was a time in our history where life had rules, there was a distinct right and wrong, and classes of people were defined differently than today.
Grace Livingston Hill's books always have a beautiful and exciting love story, one where Christians and non-Christians lives collide.
I read her books to my 97 year old mother-in-law, Anna, and she relates in a different way than me.
A friend gave me my first Grace Livingston Hill (GLH) books when I was in graduate school.
The tale is about justice and mercy.
Evan is determined to see Rowena's relatives brought to justice even if it means losing her love.
Justice is important, but so are fairness, grace, and mercy.The stories are written in a different style than contemporary romances.
(GLH was one of the first Christian romance writers if what I have read is true.) It's a good story, but today's audiences may find it different than what they are used to.
So wholesome… So endearing… A joy!!This is another great human drama, and romance for those of us who value the wholesomeness of the early 1900s… yes Grace Livingston Hill was a creative genius. If you enjoy reading stories that lift your heart, and put soft joyous tears in your eyes— then you will enjoy this book.
Mystery and mayhemWhat a change! It was a wonderful story, full of action and adventure and romance done right. Forgiveness at the heart.
Excellent story and well written. For a very old book, it is still very current to today. Highly recommend!
a truly enjoyable book by Grace Livingston Hill. Though to be quite honest I'd like to hear more about some of the secondary Characters, Like Chris, Nurse Bronson and Aunt Patty.
This book was chosen for my book club and I thought it was a cute story. The author died in 1947 and she is known for being a Christian writer. The story is about prohibition and the family's it affects and a love story entertwined.
