https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16349.Hercule_Poirot_s_Christmas
Feeling bloody christmasy. *evil laughter* *embarrassing silence*
4+ Stars Guess Who's Coming For Christmas? The family's all been invited to Gorston Hall for Christmas and the devilish and domineering "old coot" Simeon Lee has a trick up his sleeve plus two surprise guests to wreak havoc and add to the fun until the big crash and then......the scream from the souls of hell......and then......"Blood......so much blood......blood everywhere......fresh, wet, gleaming blood"......Oh, this is a good one. Superintendent Sugden has his work cut out for him, but with
4+ Stars
Guess Who's Coming For Christmas?
The family's all been invited to Gorston Hall for Christmas and the devilish and domineering "old coot" Simeon Lee has a trick up his sleeve plus two surprise guests to wreak havoc and add to the fun until the big crash and then......the scream from the souls of hell......and then......"Blood......so much blood......blood everywhere......fresh, wet, gleaming blood"......Oh, this is a good one.
Superintendent Sugden has his work cut out for him, but with the expertise of Hercule Poirot, they make quick work of the interviews to sleuth out the culprit.Thank you Agatha Christie; adding this one to my favorites!
Fast moving with a few good twists along the way!
3 stars
Hercule Poirot's Christmas is a detective novel, written in 1938 by the so-called "Queen of Crime", Agatha Christie.
There is certainly a lot of blood in this one, although the story itself is still more of a jigsaw puzzle (to use an analogy made by one of the characters) than anything else, and the copious amount of blood (view spoiler)[proves to be a bit of a red herring.
(hide spoiler)]Hercule Poirot then proceeds to prove point by point that each of the family had not only a good motive for killing the victim, but also ample opportunity.
Children, children, everywhere, and every one a suspect!But the epigraph, even before we meet him, is telling: “Yet who would have thought the old man to have so much blood in him?” (Lady Macbeth)This book was written in part as a response to a letter to Christie from her brother-in-law James, who asked her for a “real murder” and no more of these “anemic” killings: “A good violent murder with lots of blood.” James got his Christmas wish, and how.
This is such a classic Agatha Christie!
A nasty old man, his mostly estranged family bearing many a grudge, brought together with a smattering of servants and unexpected guests for a very dysfunctional Christmas in the family mansion.
When the old man inevitably ends up dead and some precious jewels go missing there are any number of suspects for the police and Hercule Poirot to investigate.
Of course Monsieur Poirot's little grey cells will quickly sort out the truth from the lies and secrets and solve the case.So good to re-visit Agatha Christie from time to time and be reminded of what a consummate story teller she was!
His eldest son, Albert and his wife had cared for the old man in the old mausoleum they called home, always doing the old man’s bidding.
But when Simeon decided to call his sons and their wives home for Christmas, no one could know what was about to occur.As the family gathered on Christmas Eve, the bickering and hatred flowed through the house.
But it would be the last time his family saw the old man alive…Hercule Poirot joined the local police in their investigations – he was currently on holidays in London so offered his little grey cells.
I read the 1939 edition of this book (thanks, library!) which is titled "Murder for Christmas." I see why they changed that, as there are a million books of the same name. I guess a lot of people fantasize about murdering their family members. In Simeon Lee's case, it's easy to see why.This was fine, but not a favorite Christie. It's a little too god-everyone-is-horrible for me. I preferred the short story that is also Poirot having an old-fashioned English Christmas at a country estate, even it is even less plausible.
توی این داستان اصلا فکرشم نمیکردم قاتل کی میتونه باشه ، داستان کاملا پیچیده با جزئیاتی که به سختی میشد به کسی گفت قاتل پیرمردن و آخر کتاب به قلم و ذهن آگاتا کریستی درود فرستادم که اینقدر تیز بوده و جوری داستان رو نوشته که حتی به عقل باهوش ترین ها هم نمیرسه کسی قاتله که کلا انگار قرار نبوده طبق داده های داستان قاتل از آب در بیاد مگر توی این داستان و با نیتی که کاملا از متن دور بوده اما به طور زیرکانه ای هم در متن بوده !
I wouldn't have expected less from the Queen of Crime. Enjoyable holiday read from the formidable Agatha Christie. A locked room murderThe millionaire of the Lee's family is found killed during the holidays. All his family is over, along with a few unexpected last minute guests. Or maybe the butler did it.
Bellissimo!
Average plot which seems to drag on and on at some places. In typical Christie fashion there are too many suspects and everyone seems to have a motive to kill. Poirot's deductions are weak and there are just too many coincidences. A boring novel
The patriarch, Simeon Lee, has summoned all four of his sons (Albert, George, David and Harry along with their respective spouses) along with Pilar, his granddaughter from his now defunct daughter Jennifer.
Matters worsen when Simeon Lee is murdered in his room and being of a highly questionable moral character, there is no lack of suspects.I wanted to read a book that was set on Christmas and while this is not a warm and fuzzy read, I very much enjoyed it.
When Simeon Lee is murdered on Christmas Eve, the blame immediately falls on his family and staff.
This particular work, the December 2012 read for the English Mysteries Club group, was probably not the best novel for me to choose as a way of going back to Agatha Christie.
It’s an old-fashioned locked room murder mystery, with an unpleasant victim, lots of suspects, a shoal of red herrings, a culprit that I didn’t pick (although I did idly wonder at some point whether that particular person might be the one), gigantic holes in the plot and an explanation of the murder and its aftermath unlikely to be guessed by the average reader.
I can't believe, after reading 40+ books by Christie, how they're still able to engage, interest and entertain me this much. Regardless of some oddities here and there, I loved the mystery and the characters, even though I was able to predict the culprit relatively early. Comfort reading at its best!
Poirot for Christmas?
A bloody good murder, that’s what!I love watching the skillful set-up in Agatha Christie’s books—the details that she lovingly points out to us, designed to lead our thinking astray!
An excellent red herring meant I was looking the wrong direction when M.
Poirot did his big reveal.
I was so sure that I had spotted the killer that I didn’t pay attention to anyone else!
As Poirot points out, when we are being forced to visit family that we might not normally & there is pressure for a certain type of behaviour, murder becomes a real possibility!
Visiting a friend in the area, Hercule Poirot offers to assist in solving this case where everyone had reason to wish the old man dead.Reading Christie is always a delight.
There is wonderful, wry humor in her writing such as the description of the butler being like a faithful old retainer of fiction and the Inspector inquiring “Do you mean to tell me, Superintendent, that this is one of those damned cases you get in detective stories where a man is killed in a locked room by some apparent supernatural agency?” Ms. Christie’s books were contemporary when written and historical to us now.
Her strong descriptions of that time and the related social mores make fascinating reading.
It is her plotting and use of characters I most enjoy.
As always AC is a great storyteller. This Christmas mystery was good but IMHO a bit chopped up, and the reveal was to abrupt.
"There is at Christmas time a great deal of hypocrisy, honourable hypocrisy, hypocrisy undertaken pour le bon motif, c'est entendu, but nevertheless hypocrisy!”Christie gives us quite the portrayal of a drama unfolding under the guise of a family gathering.
Old Simeon Lee invites all his relatives to stay with him in order to manipulate them for his own amusement, especially through his money, which he holds the strings.
Of course, all present could have done it.
This is Christie after all :0)I really enjoyed this novel, the nasty characters, their antics, and of course our favourite Belgian investigator, Hercule Poirot himself.
Nevertheless, great crime classic.
And because Dame Agatha never corrects these mistakes, she manages to create her own world where all of this makes sense and is – because it is so consistent – actually convincing.
The reader has left the real world and gone to Christie-land, where these types of conversation take place and a murder will happen soon to distract us from the thinness of the characters.If I had to raise one grudge against this festive read, it’s that it isn’t very Christmassy.
The first time I read Agatha Christie was when I was in my mid twenties & I was first married.
Though I never met her I was given a Christie book of hers to read and like her I loved reading her books which then I actively looked for the paperback edition to read.
Hercule Poirot's Christmas was written in 1938 which I find interesting in the sense that England had not entered World War 2 until 1939.
The Spanish Civil War is present at the time & Christie makes her some comments about that which I find interesting.
Christmas is merely the occasion for some estranged family members, and a few non-members thrown in to thicken the plot, to gather in an English country home - and for one of them to commit murder of course.
The scene is set for an old-fashioned murder mystery, with stolen diamonds, family secrets, a butler (called Tressilian) and a number of red herrings.
Much of it was both charming and mysterious, and once again I couldn't guess the murderer.There was a bit too much backstory for the story at hand to feel compelling at times.
A fun, light read for the Christmas holidays.
It's Christmas time & for Hercule Poirot that can only mean three things.....a mansion, a murder & plenty of suspects. There are times in this novel when interviewing the suspects becomes a little repetitive & plodding. When the way the murder was committed is explained it seems a bit over elaborate for my taste. Yet despite these criticisms it's yet another entertaining read from Christie. Happy Christmas, mon amie.
Agatha Christie is a flippin' genius.
Soooooo good. A real mystery. Check out my full review on my booktube channel at http://YouTube.com/peterlikesbooks
Me encantó, este libro no empieza con el asesinato como suele ocurrir si no por la mitad, asi que conoceremos a la víctima y a sus posibles asesinos, muestra como todos son capaces de asesinar y te hace sospechar de todos, pero después sale con un asesino que ni de vista sospechas (realmente se me hizo un poco de los cabellos lo del asesino) pero me gusto y despues de meditar el libro vi que Agatha Christie dejo pistas para sospechar de él, buen libro y recomendado para iniciarse con esta escritora.
Estoy flipando con esta mujer. O todos sus libros son maravillosos o estoy teniendo mucho atino en las elecciones. Nuevamente, he sido en incapaz de preveer o medio intiuir la solución. Con Christie siempre ocurre igual. Tienes 14 hipótesis diferentes y al llegar el final descubres que, una vez más, ni cerca estabas. Genia. Jamás me cansaré de su obra.
4,5/5
Fiquem a saber a minha opinião, aqui:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=spwwZ...e aqui: http://maryredhair.blogspot.com.es/20...
"Who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him?" A classic whodunit with the victim, a locked room, and a small group of suspects. Patriarch Simeon Lee has gathered his family for the Christmas holiday. There is no cheer or good will here. Simeon Lee made his fortune but now he is an invalid and it seems that his only pleasure is in tormenting his children. They are very dysfunctional family. Look up the term in a dictionary and you just might find the Lee family. On Chris
Patriarch Simeon Lee has gathered his family for the Christmas holiday.
Simeon Lee made his fortune but now he is an invalid and it seems that his only pleasure is in tormenting his children.
On Christmas Eve Simeon summons all of his family to his room where he insults and ridicules each member .
That night, after dinner, the family and staff hear a tremendous racket and a horrible scream coming from Simeon's room.
Breaking down the door they find the room in a shambles and Simeon in a pool of blood.
Simeon's room is on an upper floor.
Poirot doesn't talk with the Lee family and staff.
