https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1388813.Midnight_Awakening

OMFG I am so in love with Tegan!
Tegan lost his 1st breedmate in the worst way ever and it nearly drove him rouge.
Elise who was more demure in the last book came out kicking major ass in this one.
I loved how much stronger Elise was in this book.
Tegan was a beast in bed and the smexy time in this book was melting my kindle it was so good.
I loved when Tegan told Elise he loved her for the first time.
I liked how classy Chase handled Elise moving on with Tegan.
Overall I loved this book.
If I were a vampire, I would totally want to go around killing assholes.
Boring!In this book, we have Tegan, a totally badass warrior who lost his wife hundreds of years ago and is an emotionless hardened killer.
Something about his cold, unsympathetic heart really makes me swoon.Tegan gets involved with Elise, a lady who lost her husband and son and is on a mission to kill as many minions as she can as revenge.Sorry, guys, you are too played out.
Time for you to die.They get thrown together because Elise stumbles upon information that will help the brotherhood order figure out what the bad guys are up to.
The third book in the Midnight Breed series gives us the story of the brutal, cold and closed off Gen-one warrior who finds his life turned upside down by Elise, introduced in the previous book when her son went missing and turned rogue.
God, I love Tegan and Elise together!
They’re not really a focus of the story, but as breedmates (genetically able to be mated with a vampire), they each have an individual gift that allows them to contribute to the action, and I love that they are so involved.
I hate to compare books, but I must say that I don't connect with him as a tortured hero as intensely that I have with some of the other heroes in various other paranormal series that I have read and loved.
Having said that, he definitely held his own in this book as a formidable warrior with a tortured past, but capable of complete tenderness and gentleness with Elise.
I think that is what made me like him, was the way the took care of Elise, and showed her respect.
3 3/4 "For the action!" Stars!Slightly spoilerish...(view spoiler)[I absolutely loved the action and the progression the series made.
I think it's going in a very interesting direction with the villain!
However, I didn't love the romance in this one.
I'd been looking forward to Tegan's book from he was first on page in book one.
I probably built him up a little too much before I even started.
I was disappointed in him.
I understood her, but she put up with a lot of jackassness from Tegan, so...
(hide spoiler)]But!
I am all in for this series.
Tegan je zaista najupečatljiviji muški lik ovog serijala. ♥
Until they are both drawn into a web of intrigue that leads them to the other side of the world and to the very center of the struggle between the rogue vampires out to destroy humankind and the group of warriors who have given their lives to stop them.Something dark and sinister is arising and its far worse than the evil Breed they once considered their arch-nemesis.Tegan is the kind of sexy brooding hero that we've come to love in paranormal romance, and Elise's transformation makes this novel a winner.
Wow.....just WOW!Until now, if anyone asked, I would have said that Lara Adrien's Midnight Breed series was good but not great.
Midnight Awakening was something really special and I couldn't put it down!What made this book different from the previous two was the incredible off the charts chemistry between Tegan and Elise.
The previous books waited too long to develop the chemistry between the leads and I felt very disconnected to the characters.
I loved how she was portrayed and was cheering for her from the first page on.Although I became a fan of Elise....I fell in love with the character of Tegan.
I could have enjoyed this book. A lot. But I had struggles with connecting with the characters, specially Elise Chase (how old is she?). Though she was cool, stubborn, naive and loyal, I still felt like I was on the outside looking in when it comes it Elise. Still not over the fact that she has the same as me.   He was the ghost you never saw coming, death breathing down your neck before you even realized you were in the crosshairs.  Breed warrior Tegan (more than seven centuries of existence) w
Though she was cool, stubborn, naive and loyal, I still felt like I was on the outside looking in when it comes it Elise.
I like that, though even with him, I felt on the outside.
Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Adult) Paranormal RomanceSeries: - Series, Book Three Love triangle?
(hide spoiler)]Cheating?
- (view spoiler)[No.
- (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]HEA?
- (view spoiler)[Yes, for the couple.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite character?
- TeganWould I read more by this author/or of series?
- Unsure.Would I recommend this book/series?
I'd recommend having read book two before jumping into the series with this book.I'm glad to note that thus far, I've enjoyed each Midnight Breed book more than the last.
Up to now he's seemed stone-cold and emotionless, observations that are only solidified by the fact that his emotion-affected dermaglyphs--tattoo-like markings that the Breed are born with--are always at an innocuous, neutral shade.I for one didn't think much of Tegan in the first two books.
Doing so will provide greater context and a deeper emotional understanding of the heroine, Elise Chase.This book only further solidifies my affinity for this series.
Teegan spent a lot of time being a d-bag toward Elise so of course she decides she loves him.
She started out seeking vengeance for her son and taking down bad guys but that plot gets derailed and the focus turns to some guy in a psycho ward.I thought the book was okay until the characters went to Germany and then it got incredibly tedious.
I’m not sure why the author bothered to set part of the book there since she used none of the culture.
I wish there had been tighter focus on the relationship or more detailed action.The bad guy’s denouement was a bit abrupt.
With Tegan so callous and unemotional and Elise as broken and angry as she is, you wouldn’t think there would be that much passion in Midnight Awakening, but boy was I wrong.
In Elise’s presence, Tegan sparks to life and the chemistry between the two is explosive from the start.Adrian takes the Breed series to another level with Midnight Awakening.
The slightly less than perfect rating I gave Kiss of Crimson and Kiss of Midnight was due largely to the lack of humour and easy banter between the warriors and their Breedmates that I find to be so endearing in characters of other books.
Breed warrior Tegan Special ability: Gen one warrior, Second in command, Senses truth and emotions through touch Age: 700 years oldBreed mate Elise Special ability: Hearing ugly thoughts of Rogues, Minios, Humans Occupation: Darkhaven resident for more than 100 years.
His wife turned into minion and she was killed.
Elise had a devastating loss recently.
Her son was killed from Crimson drug.
These two sad souls will find a common ground and they will try to be together.To be honest Elise did not really convince me at the beginning as Tegan mate.
Thus, I expected them to end up together.
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance  Summary  Elise Chase has left dark haven, the only home she has ever known to get justice for the death of her son. She has trained herself to fight and hunts down rogues in the city. She is on a mission and nothing is going to change her mind. When she stumbles on a minion and kills him, she is drawn into a danger she didn't see coming and then Tegan rescues her. Tegan is shocked to see Elise fighting or living in a run down apartment wh
Tegan has that "Tortured Hero" feel to him that is quite heartbreaking, but I loved seeing him shine at different points in the story.
Elise lost her mate years previous, and then her son got hooked on a dangerous drug that turned him into a rogue.
It does have some action too, but the major drive of this book is the mystery and trying to figure out what the leader of the rogues has up his sleeve, and Tegan and Elise are the keys to finding out what is really going on.
Cada libro que voy leyendo de esta saga me va gustando más, me ha tenido enganchanda y me ha quedado con ganas de más.
5 stars - Vampire RomanceMidnight Awakening focuses on the unlikely relationship that develops between brooding Breed warrior Tegan and Darkhaven widow Elise. Tegan is dark, volatile, solitary, sexy, and surprisingly tender. This is probably the steamiest book in the series due to the great chemistry and sexual tension between Tegan and Elise. I loved this book! The Midnight Breed series rocks!
First read Jan 31, 2015
It’s his past that has shaped him to the warrior he is now, knowing the disease of bloodlust firsthand and the pain of losing a loved one to the rogues.
Then it’s Tegan to her rescue, let’s just say she got caught doing something she shouldn’t and he gets dragged into a partnership he doesn’t really want.So now they are on a mission to figure out what the rogues next move will be, because they have something very important that the leader of the rogues want and will stop at nothing to gain it.
Tegan fears for Elise because the rogues now know who she is, he has no choice but to keep her close and that’s the last thing he wants.
Out of the three novels, I can't decide which I liked more.
If forced to choose, however, I'd have to say this one is my favourite...
so far.More excellent actions scenes that have you holding your breath.
More erotic sex scenes that leave you just as breathless as the characters...I'm so unbelievably happy for Tegan and Elise, happy that they found each other, happy that they found the love that was lacking.
After all they'd been through, they so deserve each other.Maket gets what he deserves, but a twist in this one makes it far from over.My mistake was reading the excerpt for Midnight Rising.
At the beginning of this book I didn't like Tegan much I thought that he was too harsh with Elise, but in the end I think he maybe my favorite so far.
Tegan finds Elise being attacked by Rogues, he saves her and follows her home where he discovers she is hunting and killing minions by herself.
Elise is willing to do whatever it takes to help the Order Tegan is so rude and crass with her trying to scare her off because he has some kind of feeling for her so his answer is to treat her like dirt when she goes to him for help.
After finding the previous two books a little lacking it was so satisfying to see Adrian finally hit it out of the park with Tegan and Elise.
They know pain loss and Tegan especially understands Elise's need to kill as many Minions as she can.
Even though this series focuses more on the men, I found Elise's journey to accept love again much more interesting than Tegan's.
Through their special talents the Breedmates can contribute to the cause without being on the front line.Adrian keeps giving me more and more of what I love about this series.
Ayrıca Elise'in bu kitaptaki değişimi de beni şaşırttı, tam bir intikam meleği ile tanıştık.
Takıma yeni katılan üyeler var, ikinci kitapta Dante'yi uyuz eden Sterling onun daimi ortağı olmuş bir halde ve iyi geçiniyorlar anladığım kadarıyla.
Sterling'in hikayesi de malesef şu anki son kitap, baya bir beklememiz gerek anlaşılan.
Bir sonraki kitap Rio'nun hikayesi ve onu da çok merak ediyorum açıkçası.
Epsilon yeni kitabı kısa bir zaman içinde çıkarırsa beni çok mutlu eder açıkçası.
Kısacası beni tatmin eden bir kitaptı.
Kurgu iyi, karakterlerin kendi geçmişlerini yenmesi ve sevip sevilmeleri güzelce anlatılmış, yazar aksiyonu tadında vermiş, merak unsuru hala geçerli bir şekilde ayrıca.
(Midnight Breed,#3) The relationship between hardcore Breed warrior Tegan and beautiful Darkhaven widow Elise Chase was steamy and compelling, stemming from admiration and common purpose. I loved Elise’s transformation from composed and gentle to tough and vengeful. The story is nicely done, very suspenseful, and seems to lead the series in a new direction. Great ending!
This is the 3rd book in the Midnight Breed series and I have liked this one the best so far. Tegan is an old vampire, a generation one. Elise is the formaer Breedmate to a Darkhaven breed who was killed. He son was killed in the last book, "Kiss of Crimson". Just the interaction as Tegan and Elise fight their feelings for one another is great. Now off to reaad Number4
3 star rating!Maybe I did a mistake jumping right on book number 3 in the series but the blurb was great, so I decided to start from there.The plot was very interesting.
I like to read paranormal books once in a while and the start was promising.
The author's describing the main characters was different from what their actions spoke to me.
And I have to say I didn't like her at all.I had some mixed feelings about Tegan as well.
Probably the characters in the book just didn't gave me what I wanted at that time.
Even though I loved Kiss of Midnight and Kiss of Crimson, Midnight Awakening is a very powerful story with two amazing main characters.The MCs are super important for me (and for everyone I guess), but most of the time, I don’t love the MCs the same.
She made Tegan’s story very special and she gets better with every book she writes.Tegan is a very dark and cold character and Elise is the complete opposite.
I actually had time to enjoy them as a couple, for once, Lara brought the two main characters together before the ending and that’s a great thing!
On the first book you get a rough story, with not much of a plot line and lots of unexplained details.
The second book gets a little better.
The heroine is more charming with a better constructed past, an amazing breedmate ability but still a little annoying.
After two books that featured a great idea poorly explored and the promise of a dull heroine you think to give up, I know I did, but hold on just a little.
Adrian manages to explain some things left from the past stories, adding important details to the series as a whole and finally creates a captivating mystery.
I have read 4 books in the series so far and I like it very much.Midnight Awakening is the 3rd book in the series and by far my favourite....Tegan is a dark, sexy, cold, tortured, loyal and very strong Gen One warrior member of the Breeds vampires who fight the evil vampires known as Rogues.
She is my favourite heroine in this series...I just love her character....makes me wish I could be her right now!!!!!After forging an alliance, with both not trusting each, they slowly feel an incredible connection which they fight against.
She can't seem to get Tegan out of her mind, even though all he did was drive her home after seeing the horrible video of her son as a Rogue, and held her when she needed to let out her grief.
moments between Tegan and Elise, I wanted to scream at him!
She was such a strong woman throughout the whole book, not just with Tegan but with her debilitating grief and her promise of vengeance.
Tegan & Elise's story will be hard to top, but I look forward to seeing her try :)
I'm not a big fan of Adrian, but this was her best book yet.You've got a race of "vampires" who're descended from some aliens who crashed on earth some centuries ago.
Once a vampire succumbs and drinks past a given point, he is lost and becomes an irredeemable and depraved monster called a Rogue.Elise is a Breedmate who lost her husband 5 years ago and her son last book.
She's drawn to Tegan, the coldest member of the Order (the Order is a small group of extremely powerful vampires who fight the Rogues).
To avenge her son, she's been killing Rogue servants using her psychic mind-reading abilities.
