https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10884.Einstein
I decided to read this book primarily because of my fiance's interest in Einstein's life and theories.
I thought it might help me to actually have a somewhat intelligent reply on the rare occasion he starts talking physics (don't tell him I said so, but he is much smarter than I am).
The periodic and quite detailed descriptions of Einstein's theories and research were a bit (okay, maybe way) over my head at times, but that didn't in any way damper my enjoyment of the book.
I especially enjoyed learning the details of Einstein's life, relationships, struggles and philosophies.
Thus the old concept of the atom as indivisible, inert, and simply buried, and the hypothesis of a complex structure later would appear to be complicated to generate manifestations of energy.The Manhattan ProjectIn 1939, at the beginning of World War II, Albert Einstein recommended that US President FD Roosevelt go ahead with the atomic bomb development project.
A collaboration between scientists and industry was proposed to develop the atomic bomb mentioned above as soon as possible.He reported that Germany had suspended the sale of uranium from the Czech mines, which the Reich had resumed.
He signed the letter to Franklin Roosevelt warning that it may be possible to build an atom bomb, and the letters of his famed equation relating energy to mass hover in our minds when we picture the resulting mushroom cloud."At more than 600 pages, the book covers Einstein's entire life, with an emphasis on his "miracle year" of 1905, and his activities during both world wars.
But there is a reason I ended up in the humanities and not the sciences, and I shall continue to admire Mr. Einstein's work from a distance.Favorite Quotes:"When I am judging a theory, I ask myself whether, if I were God, I would have arranged the world in such a way.""I have no special talents, I am only passionately curious."
What made him a genius?
Isaacson's biography shows how his scientific imagination sprang from the rebellious nature of his personality.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نهم ماه ژوئن سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: زندگی و جهان اینشتین؛ نویسنده: والتر ایساکسن؛ برگردان: علی بهفروز؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، دانشگاه تهران، 1389، در 700 ص، فروست: انتشارات دانشگاه تهران، شماره 3084، شابک: 9789640360514، موضوع: اینشتین، آلبرت، 1879 تا 1955 م.؛ فیزیکدانان، سرگذشتنامه، نسبیت، نظریه میدان واحد - سده 20 منظریه‌ پرداز بزرگ نسبیت بودند و تئوری E = mc2را ارائه دادند که پیامد آن دانشمندان فیزیک، به انرژی هسته ای دست یافتند.
ا. شربیانی
The fourth paper is only a rough draft at this point, and is an electrodynamics of moving bodies which employs a modification of the theory of space and time.and later in life he wrote this gorgeousness: The most beautiful emotion we can experience is the mysterious.
He to whom this emotion is a stranger, who can no longer wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead, a snuffed-out candle.
In this sense, and in this sense only, I am a devoutly religious man.just for fun, let's compare/contrast with:I very seriously doubt that Einstein himself really knows what he is driving at.
It’s 551 pages long, and I so did not want this book to end!Isaacson immerses us in a detailed, in depth probing of Einstein’s life – personal, intellectual, scientific, political, and cultural - against a backdrop of the history of the time – 1879-1955.
They seem comprehensible as one reads them, though I would be hard-pressed to explain any of Einstein’s “thought experiments,” theories, or the revolutionary nature of theoretical physics in my own words now.Einstein believed deeply in intellectual freedom and he was a nonconformist first and foremost.The author’s words speak for themselves:	"For the remaining ten years of his life, his passion for advocating a unified 	governing structure for the globe would rival that for finding a unified field theory that could govern all the forces of nature.
يأكل الطعام ويحب ويكره وينام ويعتقد وينتمي، يحمل أخلاقيات الناس العامة الود ، التواضع ، الخوف ..إلخلم يكن أسطورة على صعيد حياته الشخصية فهو قد عشق أكثر من امرأة كالكثير من الرجال :) ومارس الأبوة بشكل تقليدي عارض ابنه في زواجه من امرأة تكبره ، وتعامل معه كأي أب ترك مهمة التربية لأمه حتى إذا كبر الولد وأراد الاستقلال حان وقت أبيه للتدخل :)، ومارس حياته كسائر الناس، بل إنه كان أبطأ قليلا في مرحلة طفولته ففي تعلمه الكلام كان أبطأ من أقرانه حينها، إذن يا سادة ما النقطة الجوهرية التي جعلت اينشتاين يفوق أقرانه؟ ما العلامة الفارقة التي جعلته ينال جائزة نوبل ويكتشف أخطر الاكتشافات الفيزيائية ويحدث ثورة في علم الفيزياء؟ببساطة إنها عدة نقاط كان اينشتاين يعطيها اهتمامه سأضعها في مراجعتي بين قوسين : (الخيال) حيث كان الخيال مسرحه لإجراء تجاربه ومعين أفكاره الذي لا ينضب، (الفضول) وقد أجاب حينما سئل عن كيف يعمل عقله: لست موهوبا، إنما أنا فضولي متحمس :)!
في المجتمعات العربية يسيطر "المعتاد" و"المفروض" على 99.999من تصرفات الافراد، اما في الغرب فيمكن لاي شخص مخالفة الواقع والخروج عن المألوف بدون ان يثير حفيظة احد.المجتمع بطبعه يتصرف بروح القطيع فيعارض غير المألوف ويثور ضد الافكار الجديدة..
المجتمعات البشرية لا تعترف بالعبقرية والابداع بقدر ما تعترف بالسحر والجنون (ما اتى الذين من قبلهم من رسول الا قالوا ساحر او مجنون)!!* ولكن رغم كل هذه القيود قد يبرز (مجنون ما) يخالف المألوف ويكسر المعتاد ولا يخشى المواجهة، شخص بهذه الصفات يكون مهيأ بنسبة 99% لبلوغ قمة العبقرية فما تبقى ليس اكثر من تشغيل جمجمة نملك مثلها!وقد يتمرد المرء على قيود مجتمعه لاسباب كثيرة..
Why does everyone feel the need to quote the guy regarding religion, education, happiness, sociology....everything?
This really annoyed me - and I guess it still does.In an education lecture a few weeks ago the lecturer gave an Einstein quote on learning.
Ok, maybe an education quote might be legit from this guy.So this prompted my to pull this volume from my to-read bookshelf (might be bigger than this, shhhhh) and open it up.
Teaching quotes: although he did undergrad education, he was later renowned for being a shit boring teacher.
كنت سعيدة بي لأنني أقرأك ، وغاضبة مني لأنني أبدو أحياناً متعاطفة معكَ كُلياً وكم يبدو هذا سيئاً !
فأنتَ لم تكن عالماً فحسب ، لم تكن ألمانياً تخليت عن جنسيتك ، لم تكن يهودياً فقط بل صهيونياً أيضاً تحاول الإنصاف ..
وبعد الإعلان عنها قلتَ بأنكَ سعيد بها ، رفضتَ الرئاسة فيها لأنكَ تظن بأنكَ لم تخلق لتكون سياسياً أو ذا منصب .
لم أفهمك إلى حدٍ ما ، لكنني أحترمك بعد كُل شيء ، أظنكَ جديراً بالإحترام .
لكنني قارئة ذكية أينشتاين ، لقد تجاوزتها واستمتعت بالوثب القرائي معرفةُ أينشتاين : إنساناً ..
لعوباً كان كُل هذا ممتعاً ، مغرياً لكُل الراغبين في قراءتك أيضاً
Don’t get me wrong; I really liked the book, and it is one I would recommend to all those readers who want to meet an intelligent, wonderful, honest, humble person.
He is one of those few adults who manage to keep alive a child’s delight in the world around them.Now there is a lot of physics in this book, and there are sections that went over my head.
These thought experiments are Einstein’s, not the author's, and they are the easiest way to understand the laws of physics which Einstein discovered.
It took him another 10 years to get from the special theory to the general theory of relativity.
His further quest for general relatively was similarly passionate reading particularly in the race with a Swedish mathematician David Hildbert to find the final formula.
It is a bit harder to remember and understand than the special theory but contains the famous cosmological constant that bugged him ever after.The book kind of slows down and loses a little focus after this initial rush.
Certainly not the best biography I ever read but not the worst either.
Turned out, I loved it.What I loved about Isaacon's book here is the way it delicately balances three aspects: the life of Einstein from a strictly biographical angle, the examination of his scientific works like special and general relativity, and the discussion of how Einstein impacted and viewed the scientific zeitgeist of the early 20th century --particularly within the field of physics.
We get interesting little tidbits about Einstein's personal life and character, but we see how those things impacted the way he pursued his scientific work and thinking, and how that body of work turn defined (or, later, ran counter to) the entire field of physics.
Einstein: His Life and Universe is but a mere pinch of Einstein's theories mixed in with a modest helping of his life. The brevity was too my taste as I was only in the mood for a tiny taste of Einstein bio. Too much of the genuis' theory is liable to give me brain-freeze, so this was perfect. And done just the way I like it, tight and to the point.
You'll know Albert like your own grandfather after reading this.
This book covers the complete life of Albert Einstein, from his childhood (he never did fail a math test) and early attraction to science and math to his love life, his children, his education, his employment, his many great theories and discoveries, his relationship with all of his famous peers, his rise to public fame, his sincere beliefs in freedom from oppression, 2 world wars, his role with the bomb, and his life in the US.
And through it all is modest, humble private life.
Einstein: His Life and Universe by Walter Isaacson
This book shows you the man and human being behind the genius of physics and astronomy, the creator of the theory of relativity.Do not be fooled by the sheer girth of this 700-page book, Isaacson has a writing style that immediately makes the reader feel calm and at home, sitting in a comfortable chair doing what they love to do.
He had visited the country a number of times during his tours around the world as a proponent of relativity and to meet other scientists at conferences, and was a big supporter of the rights and freedoms inherent in the country.This is where the second part of the book begins, pursuing Einstein’s life in the United States.
I learned heaps I didn't know and had the record set straight on a number of points, mainly regarding Einstein's political views, how they changed over time and his level of support for setting up the Manhattan Project.I read the book with a specific research agenda, which was to independently form an opinion as to whether Einstein was autistic, an idea not first suggested by me and not on the author's mind either.
Einstein, who used his world famous name to stand up for moderation, tolerance and freedom of thought and speech, does not.Still, overall an excellent book.
Einstein was a great read - I gained a new appreciation for Einstein as a person and his scientific world.
I couldn't tell if he possessed great confidence or if he crossed over to being arrogant, and I wasn't impressed with how he handled his personal relationships.
However, as the book went on, I gained an appreciation for his thirst for knowledge, his independent thinking, confidence, determination, and even kindness.
I've decided based on comments by Einstein's friends, that he wasn't an arrogant person, but he was a confident, independent thinker who wasn't swayed by the prevailing thoughts in physics and political culture.
For instance, a huge portion of the book is devoted to Einstein’s personal life, reading through his correspondence with his love interests.
I think I mostly self-identified as an atheist until now but I’ve been swayed to Einstein’s view by this book, as it was nicely presented by Walter Isaacson with help of original texts by Einstein.- Einstein strongly disliked nationalism, and thought of himself as a citizen of the world.
An interesting view, expanded on nicely in the book.- I liked the anecdotes surrounding Einstein’s Nobel prize.
I just dragged through this over a period as at some point it started to feel a bit dry, but that was more from my state of mind as this was not an easy book to digest.
Einstein's personal life was as complex as his scientific thought experiments.
He was in equal measures passionate and yet detached especially when he felt restricted by bonds of relationships.If you have the patience coupled with a keen interest in gleaning into the greatest scientific mind of the 20th century, I definitely recommend this version of Einstein's biography.
لن تكون مميزة لأنني معتوه يشبه فى تمرده المعتوه الكبير الذي يتحدث عنه الكتاب فى بدايات حياته مع فارق أنه كان اكثر تفوقاً مني قليلاً وأنني لن أقوم بتغيير العالم بالطبع كما فعل هو .قرأت الكتاب عدة مرات ، لأكن صادقاً فليست قراءة كاملة ، لكن بالأمس قراءته كاملاً طوال الليل , حسناً ساكون صادقاً أنني لم أكن اقرأ طوال الليل فقد مرضت فى نفس هذا الليل وغطيت فى نوم طويل إلي الصباح ، نوم طويل مثلما شعرت ولكن يبدو أن ساعة بيتنا قد سافرت بعيداً فهي لم تشر سوي أنني نمت سوي الساعتين فقط .

Uf. Pro mě jednoznačně kniha poslední doby, což tak nemusí mít každý, ale já jsem na Einsteina prostě zatížený.
Kniha je o životě a práci Alberta Einsteina, což asi u životopisu nepřekvapí, ale pár věcí zmíním.
Každý, kdo se někdy někam vypracoval, tohle musí znát a musí z toho mít nervy a číst si, jak to řeší a neřeší takový člověk, to něco, co ve mě rezonuje jak tympány do koulí.
Jo, namítnete, že to u životopisu tak bývá - pár stránek odkazu, vydavatel ještě přimastil něco o českých stopách a ohlasech, ale to je všechno.
Нэг сонирхолтой зүйл гэвэл Эйнштейн залуухан эрдэмтэн байхдаа тухайн үеийн тогтсон мэдлэгийг эвдэн хаяж квантын онолын эхлэлийг нь тавьсан хэдий ч амьдралынхаа сүүл үед квантын онолоо эсэргүүцэж эхэлсэн байгаа юм.Эйнштейний нийгмийн амьдрал гэвэл мөн л их бага адал явдлуудаар дүүрэн.
Түүний хайр дурлалын амьдрал нэг их бүтэлтэй болохгүй байсаар хоёр ч эхнэрийн нүүрийг үзээд авсан байгаа юм.
Гэвч сайн муу нийлж байж савны ам дүүрдэг гэдэг шиг яг байгаа хэвээрээ ч доктор Эйнштейний амьдралын талаар бага ч болтугай уншиж танилцсан минь их сайхан санагдлаа.Энэ номноос Эйнштейний талаар мэдэж авсан сонирхолтой баримтуудыг хуваалцвал:Эйнштэйний төрсөн өдөр: 1879.3.14Тэр энхтайвныг дэмжигч байсан (Англиар pacifist).
منذ الصغر و آينشتاين يجذب انتباهي بصفته صاحب أكثر النظريات الفيزيائية غموضا -و شهرة في الوقت نفسه- على مر التاريخ،،أردت أن أجمع بين التعرف أكثر عن النسبية و عن حياة آينشتاين و أراءه الدينية و السياسية و الحقيقة أنني وجدته إنسانا في المقام الأول له ما له و عليه ما عليه.و هنا يجدر الإشارة إلى تميز المؤلف ف جمعه بين الجوانب العلمية و الجوانب الحياتية الأخرى في قالب سردي ممتع.و بعد قراءتي للكتاب ازداد احترامي لهذا العالم بقدر ما احترمت آينشتاين الإنسان الذي تعرفت عليه على صفحات ذلك الكتاب.أخيرا..أنصح بالقراءة.
Obožavam ovog čoveka. Zabeležio sam sebi pokoju mudrost od njega. Vredi čitati, što zbog Alberta, što zbog knjige.
Arrivata alla fine (la morte di Einstein) mi sono sentita triste, come se mi avesse lasciato un vecchio maestro che conosceva da tanto, il quale con le sue parole e il suo esempio mi aveva aiutato a capire il mondo, quello della fisica e quello delle persone.
La morte del protagonista mi ha lasciato anche un altro grande vuoto: non saprò mai cosa è successo nella fisica dal 1955 a oggi, salvo che non legga qualche altro libro divulgativo appassionante come un romanzo (allora se esiste, fatevi pure avanti!).
Where do they get the amazing ideas they come up with?As often as not, brilliant people become criminals as successes like Einstein, which tells me we as a world culture don't respect intelligence as the end-all for our problems.
After all, the senses couldn't see them happening.But, Einstein couldn't turn his brain off and that tenacity is what won out in the end.
He had a God-given talent to think better than anyone in his generation, but it was the very human traits of tenacity and perseverance that enabled his success and the inability to see the forest for the trees that mitigated it in the end.
EINSTEIN: His Life and Universe. (2007). Walter Isaacson. *****. This was one of the most engaging biographies that I have read in years. I think that second place also goes to Isaacson and his biography of Ben Franklin. Einstein was born in Ulm (remember that – it’s often a crossword puzzle clue) in 1879. His youth and early education is covered adequately, along with those of his siblings. He was born into a non-practising Jewish family. In later years, when he was forced to list some personal
This was one of the most engaging biographies that I have read in years.
In later years, when he was forced to list some personal religion he practiced, he often wrote down “Mosaic.” He was fascinated with science, especially physics, from an early age.
In that year, he published groundbreaking papers on 1) The quantum theory of light; 2) The explanation of Brownian motion, which proved the existence of atoms and molecules; 3) The development of the concept of space/time; 4) The equivalence of mass and energy.
I will urge you to read this book, and hope you find it – as I did – the best of biographies should be.
Here's a chance to become more intimately acquainted with an exceptional life that straddles both world wars, a biography that introduces the reader to the histories of England, Germany, Switzerland, England, Israel, Italy and Japan in relation to both conflicts .
Seeing them from the perspective of Einsteins life, his family's ups and downs , and the way they separate colleagues, couples, siblings, parents and children forces the reader to consider the wars as more than a VE Day vignette .
In the end it's images of small things like a knife in a lakeside cottage in Germany that I will remember about this remarkable man and his unusual life.
