https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9912994-damned
Meet Madison, Chuck Palahniuk's newest creation, a dead thirteen-year-old girl trapped in Hell after overdosing on marijuana (or did she?
And you get to explore Chuck Palahniuk's Hell, with Madison and her friends--a jock, a nerd, a pretty girl, and a rebel, just like The Breakfast Club!
Except it's set in Hell and it's by Chuck Palahniuk!
He's a Satan only Chuck Palahniuk could write!)--watch as she learns a SHOCKING REVELATION (you'll never guess what Chuck Palahniuk's come up with this time!) and vows to destroy Chuck Palahniuk's Satan once and for all--IN THE NEXT BOOK!
That's right, Chuck Palahniuk fans!
(Apparently we should all lay off our car horns and using the F-word in conversation.)While Hell is very dirty and pretty gross, Madison finds herself some friends that form a Breakfast Club-type group, and she uses her Hell-job as a telemarketer to spread the word that being dead isn’t all that bad.This one follows the standard Palahniuk set-up.
Sure people get eaten by demons and have jobs as telemarketers and providing content for web porn, but I was expecting Palahniuk to really deliver on the whole eternal torment thing.
It’s sort of like a boyfriend that turned into a real jerk towards the end of the relationship: you might be nostalgic for the good times, but you’re not going to walk around professing your love for him.
Maybe it’s something to do with being pressured by the publisher to crank out a book a year.After reading Dainty Squid’s Review of Damned, I was cautiously hopeful.
It’s hard to keep reading a book when you don’t care what happens.The other books I read this month may have made Damned seem worse that it was, to be fair.
character, and I thought he did an okay job writing the perspective of a teenage girl without sounding much like a creepy 40+ year old dude.Madison shares her cell with a group of young sinners that is almost too good to be true: a cheerleader, jock, nerd, and a punk rocker, united by fate to form the six-feet-under version of everyone’s favorite detention movie!
Chuck also spends a fair amount of time throwing in all of the ways you can land in Hell in this story.
I probably would read another book if he writes it, but the story had a good enough ending I think.
Ugh… My god, Chuck, what is going on?
It's like you're not even trying anymore to write with any kind of style and it's getting tougher and tougher to get excited about your work.
It's like you’re trying so hard, pandering to those you once rejected, working so hard to hit the lowest common denominator.
And we know you can do it much better than this.It's sad really.
We know that you're the grossest and the hippest and the "most" and all, we get it, but you are going at it anymore like a cretin bully.
You should know better.
Which is not to say that this reads like an axe-grinding conservative polemic (I have no idea what Palahniuk's politics are), but the targets of his satire in Damned are Hell and Hollywood, and he makes Hell seem like the less awful place.A word to all the Goodreads reviewers who classified this book as "Young Adult" -- are you nuts?
How exactly this happened is one of the twists which I won't spoil, but most of the book takes place in Hell, which Madison entertainingly guides the reader through accompanied by several other vapid, damned teenagers.I have yet to understand what makes Chuck Palahniuk such a cult favorite.
Loved this book.The breakfast club but set in Hell. And with the English Patient playing over and over (which i have seen and don't wish that upon anyone)The first half was amazing, the last half dragged a bit for me but I still loved it. Sick & twisted.Unique Characters. Short Chapters. Unusual storyline.
Read on the WondrousBooks blog. Are you there, Chuck? It's me, Jeannette. I honestly used to like your books once. Invisible Monsters was a revelation - if I ever grow the balls to become a director, that would be the movie that I'd do. If you have become addicted to heroin, find some help, I believe there is still something you can offer to the world. But your books have started to suck. I'm sorry, Chuck. I really don't want to hurt your feelings, I think you are a rock star in contemporary li
Add to that some hot boiling spit and some "kiddie-porn" and you've got a Palahniuk book.I think there is so much more to him, but since I'm not his psychiatrist, I'm not going to go into long musings about just how fucked up his psyche is.Damned sucks.
Even in a world as upside down as the one in Damned, there still should be some logic, but there doesn't seem to be one and I'm not going to tire my hands writing too much about it.At one point I got all of Palahniuk's books and I've been going through them for years.
And once I figured out there was a reason for these choices, I admired its meaning more than I would have if the choices that he made for the details of the setting were random and extremely imaginative (which is what I would have done if I ever wrote a novel where Hell was the setting).And sure, the protagonist experiences inner change through the book.
I wanted to finish the book before I did a full review on it, but some things just cannot wait..and this is one of them.I really try to like Palahniuk.
How bout writing an essay on why you think the Hollywood celebrity crowd is wasting their time trying to stay young instead of prattling on disguised as a 13-year old who, if I may say, would not know all those fancy words?
But I have a strong feeling my review is going to stay just like it is.Okay, I have finished the book.
Fifty pages into Damned I was pitching it to my friends, selling them on reading about eternal torments, daemons, and hellfire - all hilariously done in the style Palahniuk has made his own.
Madison finds herself a breakfast club style group of friends and sets out on a journey across damnation and up the hellish hierarchy.
So far, so Palahniuk.Fifty pages later I was calling friends to retract my recommendation.
“What makes earth feel like hell is our expectation that it should feel like heaven.” ― Chuck Palahniuk, DamnedReading this wasn't Heaven (brilliant) and it certainly wasn't Hell (horrible).
There is also a bunch of Hell fiction out there.
I still prefer Steven Peck's A Short Stay in Hell and of course Dante's (not Dan Brown's) Inferno.
It certainly is transgressive in parts (her first battle with a demon in hell was, um, interesting), but it also is a bit uneven, and actually boring in parts.
So, not my favorite Palahniuk novel but also not my least favorite.
Hell part 2 (Doomed) can wait.
Chuck Palahniuk is completely incapable of writing as a 13-year-old girl, particularly a girl of the same generation as Madison would ostensibly be.
He just sounds like a 40-something white guy who's really impressed with himself and his ability to write.
Madison doesn't know what French kissing is, but describes in graphic detail one of the most disturbing sex scenes I've ever come across in any book.
And then the cop-out twist comes along, and it seems like nothing more than Palahniuk's own realization that he wrote an amazingly inconsistent book and readjustment to cover up the problems without having to go back and fix anything.
Mind you, I don't think that Palahniuk's newest work is bad.
It won't rank up there with some of his books that I regard as imperative in order to not have lived a wasted life, but it was a fun read.
However, I think that a certain segment of Palahniuk’s fan base is going to be enraged.
Although, what right will they have to bitch?
Palahniuk has already written some amazing books.
Perhaps this book is more "good" than "amazing," but that is Chuck's prerogative and not his fans.
Regardless, I can already hear the bitching coming from over the horizon...
The Palahniukisms came hard and fast: the cynical narrative character with two or three repeatable catch phrases, the funny sentence structure; if you've read even two of the author's books, you know the little stylistic flourishes I'm talking about, here.
I'm not actually certain if I was deluged with them, or if I've read so much of the author's work that these devices are starting to feel repetitive for me, but it was just...
It's an interesting ability to get a generation of kids raised with Ren and Stimpy cartoons to read words on a page, and then throw up in their mouths a little.
Night Shyamalan of literature, Palahniuk has found a way to transcend the accusations of cop-out twist ending that he, like Shyamalan, must suffer: the not-at-all-contrived-or-hackneyed "To Be Continued"!
Damned is, and it should go without saying there will be spoilers below, the story of little 13-year-old Madison Spencer, who dies and is sent to hell, which is apparently where the vast majority of people must go if the criteria listed are true.
The book has less than 250 pages, and yet somehow requires a To Be Continued.Palahniuk supposedly spent some time reading Judy Blume books before writing this.
En serio, está claro que te has pasado mucho tiempo trabajando muy duro en los océanos agitados y embravecidos de vómito hirviente, y en el hedor a azufre, y en las nubes de moscas negras zumbantes.Omitamos primeramente que debía ésta reseña hace ya un mes cuando lo terminé, más o menos, pero que jamás noté que no la había hecho.
Es una novela que definitivamente puede ser catalogada de horror, pero que tiene un terror de aquellos que perturban, que incomodan, no de los que asustan y te espantan por un mes.
Shit, I don't know.I didn't really go into this book with any kind of expectation.
I liked PYGMY until the end, but my problem with that book didn't have to do with the voice or the "Chuckitutde" of it, more with the copout of an ending.I guess this is Chuck's curse, to have all of his work forever compared to his first, great breakthrough.
I laughed a few times, kind of got to like the Madison character, wondered why all the candy in Hell didn't melt, but mostly just felt really noncommital by the end.All I really want is to read a good, entertaining story.
Thanks bunches!Damned is the first book I’ve enjoyed from Palahniuk since… Diary, I think.
What preludes this ride is some of the funniest adult entertainment I’ve ever read.
If you think you’d be put off by such, you might want to skip this book.
One of the major selling points of a Chuck Palahniuk book is the guarantee of a twist.
You’ll have to read this one to understand why I say that, but if you liked the final three Dark Tower novels, you should love Damned.
I’ve heard it said that readers of Palahniuk judge one another on which of his books are their favorite.
quite possibly my favorite book of the year!MY THOUGHTSABSOLUTELY LOVED ITSo, if Christopher Moore (think Abby Normal from Bite Me) and Judy Blume got together and wrote a book dedicated to a life lived in hell as a sort of CandyLand game with all of the twists and turns that move a player forward; where candy is currency .
As far as Madison can figure out, she ended up in hell because she smoke pot.
There is more to the story than that, but you have to read this one to the bitter end to find out exactly how she died.The writing is so superb that I can't even describe the pleasure of each word and the placement.
Yet I feel as if I should do my civic duty and put a sticky note inside this book that reads, “Don’t bother.” That’s pretty much my review of Damned, in two words.Madison Spencer is a thirteen-year-old girl, the daughter of rich-but-eccentric parents who love her but are not close to her.
Did you?It’s not even the “thirteen-year-old” or the “girl” parts that Palahniuk fails so badly at: Maddy just doesn’t seem like an actual person.
Much boredom.And yes—I will say this explicitly, lest someone reads these criticisms and challenges me on the grounds that I did not “get it”—I get it: Palahniuk is trying to make Hell sound boring and drab and overly bureaucratic.
Totul merge foarte linear până într-un anumit punct, îți poți face niște idei clare în legătură cu direcția în care ar putea merge acțiunea dar trebuie să recunosc că nu mi-a plăcut deloc ce a făcut Chuck cu finalul.Maddie își găsește niște prieteni în iad, începe să se obișnuiască și apoi o grămadă de lucruri se întâmplă în lanț și situația se schimbă, chiar după ce se împăcase cu acest gând și noua ei existență.
And I hear from many (MANY) sources, that this guy is GENIUS and ‘Fight Club’ is ridiculously good.
A 13 year old girl, daughter of two eccentric famous parents, dies, and ends up in the most strange, weird, ridiculous version of hell I have ever read.
Though Madison Spencer, 13 years old, who ‘might be dead but isn’t stupid!’ (or ignorant, or blah blah blah) is kinda annoying, she certainly is interesting.
Really Cute!!!!But maybe this is the Palahniuk genius I keep hearing and reading about.
Written early in my time on Goodreads, not representative of my current style.(view spoiler)[1.6.This book kind of reminds me of the music of this new artist all the kids are talking about, Adele, and my reaction to her.
I'll admit that some of it was kind of funny, but really, what's half a page of hilarity when the other 250 are unbareable?If you've never read papalaljpsudophilosophicalwankfestjj43 before, you may actually like this.
I’m glad I did, because I generally loved it.The main character, 13-year-old Madison, evolves throughout the story from a rather clueless girl to one who gradually becomes more self-aware.
It really marred what was otherwise a pleasant read and is the sole reason I gave it three stars instead of four.The other characters were excellent.
I challenge anyone not to wonder if you are gambling with their soul the next time they commit one of the atrocities.As is so common in a Palahnuik novel that I don’t think it bears even a thought of a spoiler warning, it all comes down to the ultimate existential crisis.
"Choke", "Lullaby", "Diary" and several of the others around that time were also good, but somewhere around "Haunted" it felt like wheels were coming off, and as big a fan as I am, I hung on through "Pygmy" before taking a break (the only CP books I've not read are "Tell-All" and "Snuff").
My hope dies hard (a la Madison Spencer from "Damned") that I get to read a book from CP that channels his true talent.
"Life is short, death is forever.""What makes Earth feel like Hell is our expectation that it should feel like Heaven." My first Chuck Palahniuk book, and... it was ok. The MC was a touch pretentious and there was a slightly bitter feel to the whole thing (who hurt you, Chuck?) but it was well written, smart, inventive, descriptive and original. Are you there, Satan? It's me, Maddison. Recently deceased 13 year old Maddison Spencer adjusts to life in hell with her Breakfast Club-esque group of
"Life is short, death is forever.""What makes Earth feel like Hell is our expectation that it should feel like Heaven."
My first Chuck Palahniuk book, and...
The MC was a touch pretentious and there was a slightly bitter feel to the whole thing (who hurt you, Chuck?) but it was well written, smart, inventive, descriptive and original.
Recently deceased 13 year old Maddison Spencer adjusts to life in hell with her Breakfast Club-esque group of friends, whilst reminiscing about her life on Earth.
I'd like to read Fight Club next, but I already own Choke, so I'll read that instead.
Madison, of course, plays the basket case a la Ally Sheedy while others fill the role of The Jock, The Nerd, The Cheerleader, and The Burn Out. And true to Breakfast Club form, a particular amount of emphasis is put on the question “Why are you here?” As one would expect, Madison’s marijuana overdose falls under a certain amount of scrutiny amongst her new counterparts.
It’s me, Madison.” If you’ve read the Blume novel, the parallels regarding puberty and the struggle with religion are prevalent, but with a Palahniukian twist, of course.The ebb of flow of Damned follows the group tour of Hell while going back to Madison’s time on earth, examining her home life and the circumstances leading up to her untimely demise.
1/5I'm going to say right now, I am one of those people who think that pretty much all of Chuck's early books are at the very least entertaining to various degrees.
I think the first book I hated by Chuck was Haunted.
His voice, his writing style, it all entertains me.But I've skipped books like Pygmy, Snuff and Tell All because quite frankly, I don't care about those books.
It doesn't paint this gruesome, gross version of Hell like he probably wanted.I don't know if this is all Chuck does anymore; this shock-lit.
That's totally fine, except for the fact that the book also reads like it was written by a 13 year old depressed girl.
The book rambles on and on and on, with the main character just talking at you and telling you an endless amount of things that you have no reason to care about.
The book starts with the main character sitting around in hell, talking endlessly about this and that.
Again, it reads like an edgy kid wrote this thinking she was so extremely clever and original.Why Palahniuk believes this should be a series is scarier than anything in his idea of hell.
