https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203998.The_Learning_Tree
I consider this to be a very underrated book. Everyone talks about To Kill a Mocking Bird, but I feel this is much more powerful. I never would have read The Learning Tree if it wasn't for my book club. This is a coming of age story for Newt Winger, a young black teen, in the 1920s. The major theme of this book is integrity - standing up for what is right even if it might hurt you. I highly recommend everyone to read this book.
Great piece of work. Gordon Parks does a great job winding through not just racial issues, but prohibition, class structures and coming of age.Much better than the movie!!!
I've read the whole book several times and pieces of it ten or more times. Parks was an underrated writer of superb quality. It's another classic to be that is often overlooked.
Newt, the protagonist, is an intelligent young man who faces many racial prejudices.
Like most characters who faces these issues, he dealt with them in pride.
However, he gets into a difficult situation when he witnesses a murder.
He has to choose between coming clean or hiding in the dark because a man is being framed for the crime.
I would recommend you to read this novel if you would like to find out what his decision was.
I guess everyone of us has in a way face a difficult situation and has two options.
Will he choose the right one?
Which is the right choice to make?
I didn't realize that Gordon Parks wrote a book until I read about him after seeing his photography exhibit at the High Museum.
And Shaft, I remember seeing Shaft when it came on tv for the Saturday night movie special in the mid 70s (which Parks directed).
So how does one person become so talented in so many areas?I'm in awe of Gordon Parks' vision...
It felt so heartfelt and honest and I love the way Newt and his family understood and worked to accept the way things were/are for black people living in a white world.
i read this book over 25 years ago and remember it like it was yesterday. definitely one of the best books that ive read in my life. definitely impactful.
First, this was a re-read. I absolutely love this book. I've read it a million times and have seen the movie just as many times. In my opinion, it's a really brilliant book.
If you know a bit about Gordon Parks and his life then you will see some of his life written into the book.
You would think this is like diary with one chapter representing one day but the book really spans a couple of years of time.
Parks himself would have been around 8-12 years old during that time.
This is a book that should be read by both young and old today as a reminder of just how far we have come but still how much farther we need to go.
Go out and read this book!!
TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2006The Learning Tree challengedA member of the Mobile county school board in Alabama is seeking to remove Gordon Parks' book, The Learning Tree, from this summer's reading list for upcoming ninth-graders at LeFlore High School in Mobile, reports the Alabama Press-Register. Fleet Belle, who says he has read sections of the book, wants it removed because of its "inappropriate and unacceptable" language.
I read this book when I was in high school and did a paper on it! Next to "To Kill a Mockingbird," this was another coming of age story told beautifully by Gordon Parks. There were many sections of the book that angered me, but I realize it was the sign of the times, for when this was written. I recommend this book for all reading audiences. Lots of life's lessons to be learned in this book!
So happy I finally took the time to read this book. Even though it's set almost 100 years ago, the themes & elements are still as relevant now as they were then. I think everything Black male has a portion of Newt Winger in their souls. Incredible story by my hero, Gordon Parks.
Fantastic read, a touching and at times heartbreaking human study of Newt and his family living with all of the challenges a black family might encounter in Kansas in the 1920s. A great coming of age story written with sensitivity and strength by the talented author Gordon Parks
Had to read this my junior year in high school.. 16 years later it's still one of my favorite books.. It changed my life

Alas, while some of the most obvious wrongs of segregation have been righted, the violent life led by the black characters in The Learning Tree is all too familiar (still) today.
Gordon Parks' Cherokee Flats is at once a more innocent place than today's equivalent, and sadly similar.
Parks is not a great writer, but he moves the story along briskly and gives us the interior lives of most of the characters by simply summarizing their thoughts.
The result is like a newspaper account of town happenings, rather than a novel content to witness events through one character's eyes.
A coming of age novel about a young boy living in Kansas in the 1920s.
Newt is also an unfortunate witness to a murder, and must grapple with the decision to come forward, fearing the explosion of already-simmering racial tension.
This book has been banned in some schools due to extensive use of the n-word, as well as some other language inappropriate to a school setting.
I think if it wasn't for that, this book would be required reading along with To Kill A Mockingbird.
Not a bad little novel. For a small town, there sure were a lot of things that happened --especially violent things. But this is a good insight into the way African Americans were treated in the early 20th century. For that reason, it was kind of a sad book. Although this book was just fine, I still prefer Gordon Parks's photography -- it speaks more deeply to me than anything he wrote in this book. If you've never seen his photography, I encourage you to do so.
The Learning Tree is in Mt. Airy is named after this Gordon Parks' semi-autobiographical novel. These are the early teenage years of his life in a viciously segregated town in Kansas where his parents grew crops, did odd jobs and where his mother always knew that Gordon-above all his other siblings-was destined for greatness. This is an excellent quick read novel with the backdrop of race-relations, domestic violence and teenage boy struggles.
I read this book for a book club and really enjoyed it. The author was from Fort Scott which is an area of Kansas of which I am familiar with the area. I could see these things happening in the area even much later in history. The setting was a fictional town but I believe that is a combination of a couple of towns. Although you did not see racial issues a much in small town America it was there and this is a good reflection of how things were. I feel this was a good book to read.
If you read this in high school, as I did, you may not remember everything by the time it's half a lifetime later... but that opening where Newt gets some barn sex during a thunderstorm from an older teenager.... Goddamn. From the director of Shaft by the way. Seriously it's a good book, I just wish I remembered it better. It had some good life lessons and coming of age stuff. It's what you get when you grow up in Teaneck, NJ.
A good novel to pair with Harper Lee's, *To Kill A Mockingbird.* Vividly narrated action, this is a realistic, troubling, coming-of-age story filled with believable young characters and a classic cast of adults representing the human moral spectrum. Great storytelling centered around a Black farming family in Kansas. Original cover text: "How it feels to be black in the white man's world...The Learning Tree, A novel from life by Gordon Parks."
Lots of time has passed since our Junior High English class, and I've forgotten all about the plot. I was surprised back in those fabulous 1970s how much I enjoyed book we were assigned, like this one; later I learned about Parks; work as a photojournalist for Life magazine. I'd like to reread this together with a book of Parks' photos.Classmates: was it 7th or 8th Grade?Recommended.
I did not like this book at all. I wasn't dead bored reading it, as I was with Grapes of Wrath, but I did not like the story, and the part of the story that was somewhat decent, the relationship of Arcella and Newt, was left unresolved. The plot really seemed all over the place and the story is just not one that appeals to my age group.
The learning tree was one of the most eye opening books I have ever read about the racism and injustices that black children experienced in the south. I was very young when I read the book but it had a lasting affect on me. Very well written.
In my opinion, a pretty good book. Gets very suspenseful at many points, but doesn't over do it. The story of a young black kid in the 1920's, based on a true story. It truly personifies what happened back in those days.
I picked up this book from the MFA gift shop when they were showing an exhibition of Mr. Parks' photography. The novel is -- unfortunately -- still apt. Set in the 1920s, written in the 1960s, it depicts "how it feels to be black in the white man's world." Definitely worth the read.
I read this book in high school so I don't remember all the details of the book but I do remember what an impact it made on me. Wonderful book and I think it should be read by all kids in junior high or high school.
an unique portrait of a black family in kansas. the story pulls no punches showing the ubiquitous violence their community faces. puts me in mind of both the adventures of tom sawyer and roll of thunder, hear my cry. ignore the horrible cover.
Written in the 60s, this book is very much of its era. It's very worth reading if you are interested at all in the complexity of race relations in the United States during segregation. It's a must read if you think all the issues were in the South.
"Some of the people are good, and some of them are bad-just like the fruit on a tree....No matter if you go ro stay, think of Cherokee Flats like that till the day you die-let it be your learning tree". So spoke Sarah Winger to her son not long before his thirteenth birthday
