https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8089.Rose_Daughter
This is Robin McKinley's second take on the Beauty and the Beast fairy tale.
It's slow-paced, it introduces interesting ideas and then simply drops them, the magical part is and always has been confusing to me (for some reason that happens with a fair amount of frequency in Robin McKinley's later books), and reading THAT ENDING was seriously one of the most "The hell??" moments for me ever.
(view spoiler)[ Beauty decides, because of reasons, not to have the Beast turn back into a man.
2.5 starsThe first half wasn't that bad....Actually, mid-way through this book I thought it was pretty good, and I was sure that this one was going to end up wrangling 4 or 5 stars out of me.
First, it's not like the pace in Rose Daughter was very fast to begin with, but I was dealing with it (admirably, I thought).
What she tastes, what she smells, what she hears, what she feels, what she thinks, how many times she weeps, and (last but not least) what the people in the paintings are wearing.
But fewer people are as familiar with Ms. McKinley's second retelling of the story of Beauty and the Beast.
If you have a free moment, it's really worth hopping over to her site to read the wonderful essay, "The Story Behind Rose Daughter." It's lovely.
Though they lost their mother early on, they have managed to make a good life with their father, each pursuing the hobbies and talents they love, as represented by their names.
The usual events follow and Beauty takes her father's place and finds herself living in the Beast's home, where his lovely rose garden is dying.
McKinley says in the afterward that she chose to revisit the Beauty and Beast story because she had more to say, especially about roses.
No character flaws here.--There's some kind of villain figure with the oldest son of an important family, but no one listens to him anyway and Beauty's dad punches him with no repercussions.
Guess it wasn't so urgent for Beauty to come home anyway.--In lieu of any conflict at home, Beauty loses her memories, which is the only reason she forgets the Beast's flower until it's almost too late.
Oh, did you go and have kittens, you clever thing?"Beast: "Are you even listening?"Beauty: "Something about a rose.
Robin McKinley's Rose Daughter tells the story of Beauty and the Beast, which she has already told before, and in my opinion, better, in [Book:Beauty].
She claims she felt she had to retell the story when she learned more about roses, after cultivating them.
Never have I read a book before where I felt so much like the author was simply marking time until she got to the bit with the compost.
There's no attempt at a real explanation for any of what happens, which to me is sort of the point of retelling fairy tales.It is, however, remarkable for being a book that addresses one of the most common complaints about Disney's Beauty and the Beast.
burn those sheets.-i know there had to be some allusions and whatever with all her descriptions of the house and the unicorn and whatever but i just didn't care to plod through them.
not even a few gimmes for those of us that need some obvious direction.-the story dump in the last 50 pages.
all the details that the old lady reveals to beauty's mind would have been REALLY helpful dispersed throughout the story.
just enjoy her other telling of beauty and the beast, beauty: a retelling of the story of beauty and the beast.
If you can believe it, this was my first Robin McKinley novel. I know. But the good thing is, I found it absolutely lovely, and I know that when I get to Beauty, I'll love it, too, especially knowing how the rest of you adore it. I've been told before that this author's work is right up my alley, and it really is: lyrical and haunting, full of magic and folklore. I'll definitely be making time to check out the author's backlist, including her other BatB retelling.
The similarities and differences, and the message we're supposed to take from the story.(view spoiler)[Love as a curse-breaker is the first core of this story, and for that you really have to sell the reasons this girl falls for the monstrous creature that threatened her father's life, and then every night asks her to marry him, but cannot explain why.
In the Beauty version of the story, we are given more interaction, and a shared interest in their love of reading that makes the romance more convincing.Family is the second major theme.
In both stories we have the classic rich merchant falls on hard times, travels to country, encounter with Beast, sacrifice of Beauty, romance, separation, and reunion bringing the breaking of the curse.
Definitely not my favourite of McKinley's works -- I thought I'd like it more than Beauty, and in one sense I do, in that something that bothers me about the ending of Beauty is addressed here and a different sort of ending written.
I like the world, the sisters, the domestic stuff that (as usual) McKinley shines with.
I liked the castle and Beauty's work there, and the way other little bits of fairytale lore come in (like her experiential seven days spent in the Beast's castle versus seven months for her sisters).
I'm not sure which of McKinley's Beauty and the Beast tellings I like better.
This lost some of the simplicity of Beauty and the fairytale in general, but it kept enough to keep it firmly in the region of fairy tale, for me.I liked the very end, (view spoiler)[that the Beast remained a Beast and that that was the happy ending.
That's quite lovely: he doesn't have to change to have the love that he earned as a beast.
(hide spoiler)]
The biggest problem I had with Rose Daughter is that it dragged in a very tedious way.
The reader is stuck with her as she spends a great deal of time alone tending her roses, having nightmares, and exploring an enchanted castle.
He's humdrum, lacking any kind of personality.
Beauty and the Beast is a very well-known story.
Stuffing it to the brim with roses as McKinley does here, doesn't count.
She learns the story only when other people tell it to her and they tell it to her many, many times-- each time as uninteresting as the next.
Readers who observed the flaws and plotholes in Beauty will notice that Robin McKinley not only repeats the same mistakes but actually exacerbates them; they're much worse in this story.
With Beauty she was a fledgling author and so you could always be indulgent about her beginner mistakes.
McKinley is a veteran author now, and should know better.
Should've known better not just to NOT repeat the mistakes but also when to call it quits and reflect that if second parts are rarely good, second attempts never are.
It's also refreshing to find a retelling that not only has "Beauty" have sisters ( I love Disney's Beauty and the Beast but I blame them for this key plot often being left out of retellings nowadays) but that they were good people!!
They were wonderful distinct people!
I also enjoyed that at least the first third of the book happens before the beast and the castle.
I loved Beauty!
She was such a wonderful, sweet character who really tried to love and understand people.
All in all I just found this book and it's messages beautiful and it's one of the best retellings that I've ever read.
Title: Rose DaughterAuthor: Robin McKinley Publisher: Greenwillow Books, 1997Genre: YA Fantasy, YA Retellings This review can be found on my Blog, TeacherofYA’s Tumblr, or my Goodreads page My ReviewSo I didn’t get the one with this pretty cover at the library.
Now, this book is 20 years old, and though I hate to give away spoilers, (if you really want yo read this, just skip the rest of this paragraph bc I can’t keep this to myself: it’s just too weird), I have to confess the ending that makes no sense whatsoever.
I fell in love with the writing and style immediately, thrilled to have found a retelling of "Beauty & the Beast" that still held on to so much from the original French fairy tale.
This proves that without the morality lesson of the fairy-tale, sometimes the story does not work.I suppose I can see what the author was trying to go for (view spoiler)[(the Beast remains in his beastly-visage) but it failed utterly.
LAME.And don't get me started on Evil!Sorcerer who is part of the Beast-before-he-was-Beast and OldLady GreenWitch love triangle who just SUDDENLY has the name Strix, and we don't know if his NotACurse Rage!Spell killed him, or if Now!Beast killed him with his Protection!StrikeBackOrWasItAngry!StrikeBack spell, or what.
And did happen to like the idea that the Beast’s castle runs on its own time, different from the outside world.But, this is also where I believe McKinley made her error.
This only gives Beauty seven days for her to cultivate her feelings and love for the Beast.
As it stands, her recognition of her sentiments is rather sudden, since her initial feelings towards him were mostly pity and sorrow for his plight.McKinley hardly includes any interaction between Beauty and the Beast.
McKinley seems to take that idea and twists it, giving Beauty the chance to decide how she wants her story to end.
Where "Beauty" took a long time getting Beauty to the Beast's castle, "Rose Daughter" had her entering the castle around the quarter mark into the book.
Especially, when you factor in that from Beauty's perspective the whole time in the castle only takes seven days.One of the things I like most about the Beauty and the Beast faerie tale is the redemption of the Beast.
That was a little strange (maybe it's in one of the original faerie tale versions somewhere), but then when she leaves the Beast at the end, he tells her if she doesn't return soon, he'll die.
And just last year I had braved the retelling of Sleeping Beauty as "Spindle's End" and was equally entranced.I had read alot of her other, young adult works of fiction throughout my childhood.
Could it be?!The author herself had actually RE-WRITTEN my beloved "Beauty"?!Yes.Nearly 20 years after the fact.I was equally eager and abhorrent to read this reworking.Everything I read on the subject assured that it WAS, in fact, a "reworking" and not a complete retelling, not a drastic change, etc...All I can say is "Oh, wow!""Oh, man...!"
As a fic writer/reader, a lover of tropes, and a lover in particular of those inherent in Beauty and the Beast, I get why Robin McKinley would have wanted to retell this same story more than once.
Heck, I was happy to read it again within months of reading McKinley's first retelling, Beauty -- and boy am I glad I read that one first, because if I'd started with Rose Daughter, I doubt I would have gone back for more.
Rose Daughter is duller and far less romantic; for this version, McKinley seemed to decide that the most interesting thing about the Beauty and the Beast story is its implications for horticulture.
(Re-read)I liked this better than Beauty. At least, most of it. By the end, I was bored and ready for it to be over.I came closer to believing in the love story here, but not close enough. And I guess McKinley's writing doesn't match my tastes so well anymore. Too much description!(Makes me want to read a really awesome Beauty & the Beast retelling, though. The trick, of course, being it has to be awesome for me.)
This book was painful. I really thought I was gonna get a book with character development, depth, and different than the previous book.Oh boy. Did I get something different. At times it was confusing but that ending, that ending was the most confusing of all. I sort of mad-rushed/skimmed through the other half of the book because the character development became boring, plodding, empty words just to fill pages.But that ending. I don't think my eyes can unsee what went on there.
Nice beginning, slooooow middle, weird ending. Honestly not sure why this book was written.Counting it for "A novel". VT reading challenge 2018
(view spoiler)[And given the choice, she chooses poverty, and for the Beast to not revert to his human form, because "not even the wisest married pair can see the best way to dispense justice for people beyond their own ken." Ergo (apparently) being human, having power and wealth, are Bad. So much so that Beauty, who was herself the personification of Kindness, would have become some kind of tyrant if she'd gone that way.
A large statement of belief crammed into a very small space, jarring even within the illogical dream-story.Sorcery and the quest for knowledge are also Bad, by the way.
I remember McKinley's first Beauty and the Beast story was quite a bit better - think I'll find and re-read that one.
I just finished reading Robin McKinley’s Rose Daughter for, oh I don’t know, at least the fifth or sixth time.
(In fact, I just saw the live musical version of it on Friday, which is why I decided to reread Rose Daughter.) I have always loved the story, but as I got older and learned more about love, there was something about it that began to sit not quite straight with me.
And I began to wish for a different ending.Then, about ten years ago, I discovered Robin McKinley’s books, and that discovery led me to Rose Daughter.
Rose Daughter hit on some of my favorite things: gardens, families who joyfully work together, fairy tales retold, and Beauty and the Beast.
Despite my love of gardening, I do not love rose gardening but the love that Beauty has for roses has made me rethink my refusal to plant roses.
After reading the book, I find myself searching for a place in my yard to plant a rose.I loved the story of the family.
Another win over the Disney movie.AT the end of the book, there are still unanswered questions about why the Beast is the Beast and what powers Beauty has and how it ended like it ended, but I'm learning to be okay with not getting a full explanation.
One day, Beauty finds a will that leaves a home called Rose Cottage to her family.
They leave the city, not knowing what they will find in their new home.Beauty and her sisters, Jeweltongue and Lionheart, discover that they are happier in their small country cottage than they were in their fancy city house.
There, she becomes friends with the Beast and works to bring his once-beautiful rose garden back to life.Though the ending still leaves a few questions unanswered, I thought the story behind the magical events was better told in this version than in Beauty.
Ugh, Beauty is the better of the two re-tellings of Beauty and the Beast by McKinley, hands down.
In this one, Beauty is just too dumb and one dimensional for words.
A magical salamander that is her friend offers to give her the gift of being able to remember everything her friends are telling her.
How did that get past the editors?
There clearly weren't editors for this book.
Don't get me wrong, I love Beauty, but McKinley should have stopped while she was ahead.
Skip this one, read Beauty instead.
I just got SO bored.
That is the sum total of her reasons for marrying a giant monster instead of a hot dude.
(My favorite part is when she says in the afterword that this book came to her after marrying Peter Dickinson.)On my Robin McKinley graph of shame and weirdness, this sits somewhere between Pegasus and Chalice on the "creep factor of love interest" axis, and sits squarely at a level with the faux-goth "edginess" of Spindle's End on the "how hard is this book trying" axis.
Rose Daughter both is and isn't your typical Beauty and the Beast story and I simply loved reading it.
It was just the right pace for me and I while some readers are not happy with the way McKinley decided to dot the i with this one, I have to say that I'm one of those readers who like that ending.
