https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2019141.The_Lute_Player
The Lute Player is told in several parts, with each part being told in the first person POV of one of the main characters, Blondel the Lute Player, Anna a fictional half sister of Berengaria and Eleanor of Aquitaine, Richard's mother.
I love reading medieval fiction and learning of the history of the times, but frankly I found this whole book to be quite boring and by the time it got to the crusade half way through I found myself skimming quite a bit, and the final third covering the last days of Richard and Berengaria were just one big snooze fest, at least for this reader.
My first Norah Loft's book. I read it too long ago to give it a detailed review but I remember it as well written and enjoyable.
Before I get into the full review, I want to say that although I would recommend The Lute Player, I absolutely would not recommend my edition - the 2008 Torc/Tempus.
You just can't read about him chipping in, working with the common man, making sure even the lowliest soldier was looked after, and not admire him.The Lute Player covers a long-ish period before, during, and after the Third Crusade and is told from several perspectives, each of which has been well formed by Lofts - all too often differing voices are written indistinctly, but not so here - there is a real sense of who is talking at any given moment.
This is a fascinating and absorbing novel which throws a different slant on the character of Richard the Lionheart.
The narrators are Blondel (the lute player), Anna of Apieta (the hunchbacked half-sister of Berengaria, Richard's ill-fated wife), and Eleanor of Acquitaine.As an author of m/m romances, I was curious to read this book because it promised to highlight the long-held suspicion of Richard's homosexuality.
Anna wishes to keep the knowledge from Berengaria, but as it turns out she already knows.The subject is not brought up again until the end of the book.
I greatly enjoyed this story of Richard the Lionhearted, as told through the eyes of Blondel the lute player, Anna the fictional hunchbacked sister of Berengaria of Navarre, and Eleanor of Aquitaine.
Meanwhile, Blondel finds himself in love with Bernegaria, which is (or seems) equally as hopeless as Berengaria's love for Richard.
The novel is fact-centered with respect to Richard and the Crusade.
I think the Lute Player is a very enjoyable novel - I especially enjoyed the sections on the crusades.
The book is so slow going I thought I would never finish it.
It did not have the detail ( or real historical reserch- it started out great, but suffers from the fact) that I enjoy from Sharon Kay Penman or Elizabeth Chadwick's works.
Richard was homosexual in this book.
This is a historical novel so many portions aren't true but I think this one is, yikes (why he is not...you can find the reason in the book of Sharon Kay Penman -Richard the Lionheart).If you read this book as a pure fiction book is ok.
SUPERB..Told in the voice of the real Eleanor of Aquitaine, a fictional hunchback Duchess who is half sister to Berengaria, (the little known but real wife of Richard the Lionheart), and the mythical Troubador who discovers Richard held for ransom in Germany after the Crusades.
It is the only written portrait, probably highly fictionalized, of Berengaria, the woman Richard married I have ever encountered.
I have never read of her elsewhere.The path of Richard's Crusade through Europe, the Mediterranean, and the Holy Land is alive with real events woven into the fictional fabric of the relationships of these real, and totally fictional characters, the Duchess, and The Lute Player.
Sadly I didn't find it in English, had to read the Russian translation, which I normally dislike.
The translation was nice enough, and suddenly I found myself immersed in this book, not wanting to put it aside!I don't know what did the trick for me - there was almost no mention of gay sex (although Richard's being gay was stated quite plainly), no romance to speak of, very few scenes of war and carnage.
The story was nice, warm, humane, intriguing, alive and palpable - and I can't seem to find better words to describe it.
The possibly mythical Robin doesn’t make an appearance here, but what we DO have is a very believable portrait of Richard based on the historical evidence available to Ms Lofts at the time she wrote this novel.The Lute Player of the title is Blondel, known mostly for his role in rescuing Richard from imprisonment by Leopold of Austria.
But Anna comes to know love, and, like Berengaria, to want someone who does not, or cannot, love her.Lofts uses multiple narrators to tell the tale – Blondel, Eleanor and Anna all provide different viewpoints on the principle people and events.
Having seen "The Lion in Winter", I knew Richard wouldn't marry Alys, but I always wondered about Berengaria (the one he did marry).
Her family history, as told by her half-sister, Anna, was just as interesting as Richard's life.
Blondel, the lute player, follows Richard on the Third Crusade (which ties in to the whole Robin Hood/King John story).
Norah Lofts beautifully details the behind-the-scenes machinations that went on and surprises you with the betrayals and coincidences that make history.
I have recently been going to the library a lot and historical books are my passion at the moment.
I will be reading more books by the talented Ms. Lofts.
I am only giving this book 3 stars because it took me so long to finish it.
I knew nothing about Richard the Lionhearted before I started this book, so it was all new information for me.
Although Berengaria, the wife of Richard, is a main character, she is weak and whiney.
Anna is strong and holds everyone up except for the King, Richard, who is hopeless.
I kept waiting for her to take a lover so demand Richard be a real husband, but she meekly gives up.Every time I think the story is over, it just goes on with no real reason.
This book was amazing - this author is amazing.
When I saw this in a used book bin I grabbed it and oh my word.
Men like Richard the Lionheart seem to thrive on it.
Back in that day he embodied all the virtues men admired most - insanely courageous, hard working, with a common touch that brought his lowliest foot soldier into the embrace.
It reminded me a lot of books I have read about Alexander the Great.
What else are these men for, if not war and conquest?
This book is told from several different points of view and each one is fascinating.
Full of spelling, punctuation and grammatical mistakes.
Certainly made the experience less enjoyable.
Since I did not remember my elementary school English history I forgot which Richard this might be.
Also forgot about what the Crusades were all about.
First narrator almost made me put down the book.
Improved after that.
Some parts engaging, some boring.
Long drawn out ending with little to make me care about how it ended.
Interesting that some references to homosexuality seemingly enlightened, followed by references to it being perverse.
I will accede that it was written in 1951.
Will not seek out other books by this author
Romance gone terribly wrong when a lute player loves a princess who loves Richard the Lionhearted who loves...? Warring in the Crusades? I love reading stories about the messed up family of Henry II, Eleanor of Acquitaine, their children and the people around them, and this brought the people into vivid life.
Even with a hectic schedule, I was drawn to this book whenever I had time on my hands.Set on Medieval times, this book follows several characters' POV and is narrated accordingly: Blondel, the Lute Player, Anna, Duchess of Apieta, and Eleanor of Aquitaine, Dowager Queen of England.
Even when she's in love with Blondel, she's still adorable.
But that happens long after Blondel is persuaded by Anna Apieta to go live with them in the Princess's Tower.
I stopped liking Blondel by this time.
Blondel immediately falls in love with Berengaria see, just like Berengaria.
Eventually, Richard makes the move and Blondel doesn't bite.
Good characters. First half better than second. Loses momentum.
I also point out that as the novel is divided into five parts in the viewpoint of different characters living in the Middle Ages, Norah Lofts does a great job of getting into that ~medieval headspace~.
On that note, I also appreciated that Lofts takes pains to point out that much of the book is fictional--I felt this was the sort of thing Anya Seton should've done with Katherine,instead of going on and on about how historically accurate everything was while at the same time not even getting John of Gaunt's hair/eye color right.
I read this book some years ago, but enjoyed it immensely, the story centred around Richard the Lionheart's life on the road with his lute player and obviously other knights and his retinue, it being unsafe for a king to travel unaccompanied, even a warrior king.
Richard was musical and wrote his own tunes, and apparently enjoyed the lute player playing for him, on his travels, on crusades to the Holy Land.The book also revolves around Richard's close relationship with his mother, Eleanor of Aquitaine and her strong desire to marry him to a beautiful foreign princess, Beringaria, who fell in love with him having met him briefly, as he was a handsome golden-haired man.
Blondel may or may not have existed , Anna de Apieta certainly didn't, but through their eyes and that of the very real Eleanor herself, the story of Richard's ill-fated Crusades and the men and women who lived through and around them unfold.
Hence bad King John his little brother as Regent etcBlondel Lofts portrays most convincingly as a boy originally destined for monkhood, but found wanting in the necessary monkish attitudes (how many of them must there have been in the Middle Ages!) And he must needs fall in love with the Princess Berengaria, who, even if she would have noticed a lute player as a man, has eyes only and totally for the man she will marry , Richard Plantagenet.
The plot revolves around five characters, three who get their opportunity to narrate parts of the book: Blondel, the King’s Lute Player; Anna, the deformed half-sister of Berengaria, Princess of Navarre; and Richard’s mother, the imperious Eleanor of Aquitaine, called the She-Wolf.
The two who do not narrate but play principal roles in the story are Berengaria, who by default becomes betrothed to the King, and Richard himself.
I suspect I will next take on Loft’s book “Eleanor the Queen,” about Richard’s overbearing and scheming mother, to conclude my foray into the interesting life and times of Richard the Lionheart.
The remarkable Norah Lofts captured my imagination again--this time with her absorbing tale about 12th century Richard I (the Lionhearted), his love-besotted and ill-treated wife, her sister, and the strolling minstrel whose life intertwined all of theirs.
Lofts made it 60 years earlier in this passage by one of the book's narrators who muses on people's readiness to accept so many varied stories about Richard's whereabouts: "...they didn't make allowances for the enormous upspringing, overwhelming power of imagination in common, downtrodden people.
If poor people ever looked things straight in the face they would cut their throats from sheer despair; they don't; they pretend, they decorate, they imagine, they believe.
I had previously read only one other book by Norah Lofts: How Far to Bethlehem?
The story is told by several narrators who come in contact with Richard over the course of around 10 years: a failed monk turned lute player who goes by the name of Blondel; Richard's mother, Eleanor of Aquitaine; and Anna, Dutchess of Apieta, half-sister to Richard's tragic wife, the unfortunately-named Berengaria.
These three narrators each tell a slice of Richard's story, which encompasses the failed Third Crusade.
A fabulous book, and one that I will keep on my bookshelf and read over and over again!
This is by far my most favorite book on Richard that exists today, so I give it four stars.
She gives emotion and suspense and excitement during battle scenes and the fantastic portion of the book that is the actual crusader part of the story.
And most of all, I am so glad Lofts agrees that Richard was at least bisexual if not homosexual.
I am sick of Richard being portrayed as heterosexual everywhere all the time, especially in Penman's works.
(Even if he was heterosexual, he did not care for Berengaria and I am glad Lofts made that clear).
The first 3/4 of the book are exciting and building up to that big moment, WHEN HE COMES OUT!
and guess what, WORST COMING OUT IN BOOK HISTORY!
All it basically says is "And then I found out why he couldn't love his wife." SERIOUSLY?!?!?!
A part of me wanted Richard to just confess his undying love for Blondel, because obviously he needed him around ALL THE TIME = YOU LOVE HIM.The book kind of leaves you feeling dry.
What happened to Anna and Blondel?
The one part I EFFING LOVED Was Anna's narrative She was so effing awesome!
The story is told by three narrators: Blondel, the lute player, Anna, half sister to Richard's wife Berengaria, and Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine.Everything is VERY well reseached, and she presents a startlingly true to life picture of poverty, pagentry, plotics, war, cultures, superstiona dn science.
The author's voice rings out a bit loud even as she takes a warts and all approach to the time period and presents some amazingly modern views, even for the time she was writing in.
I first read this book in high school.
I enjoyed it very much then (something about the kind of tragic love story with a triangle of unrequited affections).
And I enjoyed it just as much re-reading it now, some 30 years later.
The book is of its time (it was published in 1951 originally), yet the dense style is still interesting, if sometimes coy.Anna, Duchess of Apieta, is one of the fictional characters who can occupy one's mind for quite a long time.
And she is entirely fictional.
More than just a good book.
It was fascinating for me as I was learning the story of Richard and all the intrigue around him as I was reading.
A wonderful way to learn history.
I found it to be quite a page turner in a few places (mostly because I didn't know historically what was going to happen), and only a few plodding places.
Nora's description of Richard's sexuality well quite well done.I recommend for anglophiles and those who like historical fiction.I am picking up loft's book about Richard's mother, as hints about her life were quite interesting and I am interested in her take on it.
While good and seemingly well researched, it did not have the detail that I enjoy from Sharon Kay Penman or the vivid characterizations and evocation of the period that is characteristic of Elizabeth Chadwick's works.
With both Penman and Chadwick you are there in the middle of medieval action and intrigue.
That being said, I did enjoy the book enough to finish it, and it did give me a taste of the life and times of Richard the Lionheart in anticipation of Penman's next book -- Lionheart (which she is currently writing).

