https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260960.Dietrich_Bonhoeffer
I found myself more impressed by his basic and most famous works (Life Together and Discipleship) and much less interested in his earlier and later theology; I still can't tell exactly what he was up to in his late theological development revealed in his last letters to Bethge from Tegel prison; Bethge's efforts to explain those ideas didn't clear things up for me!
Someone needs to do a heavily abridged version of this that keeps the basic story line and the wonderful quotes from Bonhoeffer's writings and letters; it would be a gift to the church.
Wouldn’t it be much better to sacrifice ones life in protest as a conscientious objector, standing for what one believes, than to be killed as a soldier in a war over something that one doesn’t fully understand?
For example, the story of the Prodigal Son need not have occurred in the exact literal fashion that it is related in order for us to understand the important moral truths of love and forgiveness that it conveys.
He was, I think, enthusiastic about how ecumenism could ultimately be the church, through the process of placing the grace of God above denominational doctrines.
I actually watched the movie Bonhoeffer: Agent of Grace but I did use this book as a reference. This will probably be the most scholarly book review I will ever do so I am including it on here.Crafton     Bonhoeffer: Agent of Grace:A Reflection of a Historical Work    Lauren Crafton    History 495Professor Thomas2 February 2004    “Bonhoeffer: Agent of Grace” is a made-for-TV movie that focuses on the last sixteen years of Dietrich Bonhoeffer’s life.  The movie portrays his struggle with moralit
This will probably be the most scholarly book review I will ever do so I am including it on here.​Crafton     Bonhoeffer: Agent of Grace:A Reflection of a Historical Work    Lauren Crafton    History 495Professor Thomas2 February 2004    “Bonhoeffer: Agent of Grace” is a made-for-TV movie that focuses on the last sixteen years of Dietrich Bonhoeffer’s life.
“At the same time, one is most anxious not to in any way distort the essence of the real story itself.”  He shows the essence of the real events that took place by not using the traditional location of the events.Most reviews on the movie praise its excellent representation of the man Dietrich Bonhoeffer and his internal conflict with morality.
For the serious Bonhoefferphile, this is still the most comprehensive fact-based chronological telling of his story. Still, even Bethge misses some of the inner life of DB, best treated by Marsh in Strange Glory.
This is a massive book on the life of Dietrick Bonhoeffer. To understand the man, one must understand his past, experiences, and decisions. Bethge eloquently presents us with a mass of information that shows us just that. I highly recommend this book to all!
At this point, Dohnanyi had actually been the record keeper of all the Nazi criminal activity (Zossen Files) in an attempt to gather leaders for a cou attempt, had been involved personally in two attempts to plant explosives on Hitler's plane (both times, the fuses failed to detonate) among other things.
It was while Bonhoeffer was in prison that he wrote letters that were smuggled out, mainly to Eberhard about the Christ in the world come of age, nonreligious interpretation, Christ as the "man for others" and a return to the arcane discipline.
I found this book very challenging, both in the ethical and the theological sense. This 20th century martyr, advanced in his thinking, sacrificed his life in order to be true to his beliefs. I am in awe of this individual, but the book is not an easy read.
This was a great read. Answered my question on the place of Christianity in governanceand social life.
Brilliant
This book is a biography for young readers (I'd say age 12 +) in the "Christian Heroes: Then and Now" series.
The book follows his life as a young boy through his jobs and opportunities in England, Spain and America.
It uses letters Dietrich wrote to family and friends to chronicle his thoughts about Hitler and his changes to the German church.
Dietrich saw that the changes to the church were not in line with the teachings of Christ and worked to help those targeted by Hitler.
I know Ebehard Bethge was Dietrich Bonhoeffer's student, good friend, and, by marriage, relative.
Yet, having read other works about Bonhoeffer and by him, I feel like having now read Bethge's account, I know him better.
I admire him more.
And I have a deeper thirst to read more of what Bonhoeffer wrote, and to read more of what has been written about him.
Bethge's work has stoked the flames of my own admiration for this great 20th century Christian who, in my own view, is equaled only by Martin Luther King Jr. in the power of his testimony.
Nice historical piece about a young Pastor who decided if the church will not do anything to stop the Nazi's, he would. Bonhoffer is a legend in Christian theology, a young Pastor who quickly became a noted theologian, and then became a member of the Resistance during WWII. Good read.
Inspirational!
As eye-witness and close friend of Bonhoeffer, we get personal and intimate insights that other biographies do not cover.
His keen interest and involvement in the arts and music, made him a well-rounded person.
Bonhoeffer lived his faith beyond the theoretical sphere of acedemia and seminary.
It is hard to imagine that already in his ealry twenties, he had such an profound grasp on social and ethical issues, which he then carried out in his own life.
One will never fully appreciate his decision to leave the United States to return to Germany at a critical time.
A decision, and concomitant actions, which eventually cost him his life.
Excellent telling of the biography of Dietrich Bonhoeffer.
However, it is not an accessible telling of his story.
Despite their different backgrounds it is understandable why Bethge and Bonheoffer became friends.
Their intelligence and faith were strong uniting forces, but it is Bethge's intelligence that can make this book difficult for many.
I do not know if a different translation would be helpful or not.Bethge also presents a wonderful mix of warmth and objectivity.
I would recommend the book highly to anyone interested in either the scholar Bonhoeffer or the act of keeping one's integrity in the midst of horror and evil.
Exceptional biography of Bonhoeffer, covering many many details of his life. There is no replacement for this book, written by someone who personally knew and was a dear friend of Bonhoeffer's, a confidante during some of the most critical portions of Bonhoeffer's later life. A little weak on the early years, before Bethge met Bonhoeffer, but very detailed on the years in Finkewalde, on the Resistance and up to his death. A translation and with a decidedly academic bent, this might be daunting for some, but Victoria Barnett's cleaned up translation is not challenging to read.
This is an absolutely intriguing, educational, inspiring and sobering read. Reading this book, I felt the reality of what happened, learned so much about someone so committed to the Truth and realized that we are not immune to this evil which hostile to Truth. Not only does one learn from the teaching and life of Bonhoeffer, but the reader will take away much from Eric Metaxas' own words and teaching as he shares with us a very close look at the life of Bonhoeffer.
Excellent, but long read. Definitely have to pay attention with the different characters and going back and forth in time as well as across oceans. Bonhoeffer's story is compelling all by itself. I think maybe the writing style of this author might not be my favorite. Amazing man of God with amazing courage to defeat the Fuhrer. Taking the life of one to save many.
Very intense, and draws you right it. The scary thing is that there are SO many thing he saw that I see happening now . The churches and families being torn apart and a cradle to grave mentality. That government i s the source of everything and it IS NOT ! I sure DO not want to see crosses in churches removed with a picture of Bo in their place. Bonhoeffer was a truly great man !
Dietrich Bonhoeffer has enduring fascination for me, partly because he produced so much good theology in a relatively short life and partly because he made the wrenching choice to participate in a plot to assassinate Hitler while serving as a pastor. This was a strong overview of his life, his thinking, his tragic end.
This was an excellent book. It was very intriguing and also inspiring. Any true story of a person giving up everything to stand up for what they believe in is always touching. This book just goes to show that incredible things can be done through one life.
I know the Bonhoeffer story pretty well. Bethge provides so many details that you almost feel part of his family. I was specifically looking for Bethge's description of Bonhoeffer's "new theology" or "the nonreligious interpretation of Biblical terms in a world come of age." An excellent book.
A definitive book about a truly remarkable individual. Certainly a must read by anyone wanting to know the real Bonhoeffer. Each period of Bonhoeffer's life is covered in reasonable depth with hundreds of endnotes for follow up in the English translation of "Dietrich Bonhoeffer's Works."
Indrukwekkend leven.
didn't get very far, it didn't keep my interest. I stopped at about 10% done.
Good, but some parts are filled with minutiae that overwhelms. His life was full and worth knowing about. Recommend.
This was a terrific insight to the great theologian. It was told in such a way, that towards the end; even though I knew the outcome, I was quietly cheering for Herr Bonhoeffer's escape. Bravo.
Many excellent reviews to read. All I want to add is WHAT A LIFE TESTIMONY!!!
I was very impressed with this man, his life and what convictions he had and the stand that he took for his faith.
Too long, too much info for me. And because of that, it was SOOOOO hard for me to get thru.
