https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511406.Art_of_Praying
Guardini again provides practical advice and examples, especially using the example and the intercession of the saints and the Blessed Virgin Mary.This personal prayer life needs to be integrated with the communal prayer life of the church through the various liturgies, the most important being Mass.
The corporal union with others is deepest in the Eucharist, which unites each of us with God and thereby makes us children of God. In this way prayer life is balanced between the responsibilities of individuals to God and the individuals' responsibilities to each other through God (i.e. loving one another as He has loved us).This book is a very helpful and enlightening look at prayer life for individuals, especially those who struggle to find the time, energy, and proper method for a prayer life.
I have no memory of reading this before, yet I gave it a 4-star rating in 2010.
broad and deep, shallow enough here for the lamb to go wading, but deep enough there for the elephant to swim.My first time through this book I was the lamb and this time around I was the elephant.
Clearly the difference is in my understanding and not in the book itself, which is deceptively simple.I'm not sure how Guardini pulled it off but this little book has loads of practical common sense for prayer as well as deep insights that sank in and have influenced me greatly.Highly recommended.
A beautiful book on prayer from a primary source in the 20th century liturgical movement. Guardini manages to situate personal prayer within the larger context of liturgical and devotional prayer, as well as addressing its fundamentals. Highly recommended!
What can I say- its Guardini! He is wonderful and his modest book explaining how when where why to pray is filled with beautifully rendered advice. I heavily underlined the Book and will come back to it often as a reminder and resource. Great book!
A great introduction to prayer from one of the great theologians. Free from the defects of many contemporary treatments of the subject. Could be particularly useful in pulling from when catechizing.
In The Art of Praying, Romano Guardini examines various kinds of prayers (e.g., petition, contemplative, thanksgiving, and so forth) as well as the preparation and process one should undertake when approaching God through prayer so as to maximize its fruitfulness.
The book offers myriad practical suggestions for prayer, some of which can be of immediate help, others not so much depending on the physical and spiritual stage of the reader.
Consequently, this book deserves to be read again in the future.
Suggestions passed over on the initial read may be the very ones needed on a subsequent read since the reader might be in a different stage of physical and spiritual growth.
As I expected after reading Fr. Guardini's "The Lord," this much shorter book was eminently practical and yet steeped in deep, reflective observations. I'll likely never approach the sort of praying suggested here, but I have attempted contemplative prayer several times over the last week, and Stations of the Cross touched me last Friday. I hope it lasts, and I should return to my notes on this book to make it work.
This book is oddly academic-feeling for its subject matter, but isn't academic in that it doesn't have footnotes or references.
