https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12891770-the-pursued
Δυστυχώς όχι όμως καθώς τα 2/3 του βιβλίου αναλώνονται σε μάλλον βαρετές περιγραφές για την ζωή της μέσης Βρετανίδας νοικοκυράς και μητέρας, παντρεμένη με μέθυσο, άπιστο, αγροίκο σύζυγο.
Και παρόλο που τα αίτια του αρχικού φονικού ποτέ δεν ξεκαθαρίζονται (πιθανώς προς χάριν δημιουργίας μυστηρίου), σε αυτό το κομμάτι του βιβλίου μοιάζει σαν να λείπει η σπιρτάδα και η ένταση του θρίλερ, πόσο μάλλον ψυχολογικού.Όλες οι εξελίξεις τρέχουν στο τελευταίο τρίτο της ιστορίας μας που αν και παλεύουν να εξισορροπήσουν κάπως το σημείο όπου θέλει να καταλήξει ο συγγραφέας, δεν μας προσφέρουν ωστόσο την ανατροπή.
Πολύ ενδιαφέρον παρουσιάζει και το γεγονός ότι τον ρυθμό στη πλοκή τον δίνει ο μικρός γιός, ο Ντέρεκ.Γενικά, πρόκειται για ένα έντονο ψυχολογικό θρίλερ με στοιχεία αστυνομικού μυθιστορήματος, τα οποία, κυρίως, παρουσιάζονται στην αρχή και στο τέλος του βιβλίου.
Ανήκει στα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα της κατηγορίας whydunit, όχι whodunit!Y.Γ.: Παρατηρείται και μια ειρωνική διάθεση του συγγραφέα στα σημεία που οι διάλογοι γίνονται πιο γλυκεροί μεταξύ του ζευγαριού των ηρώων, το οποίο έρχεται σε πλήρη αντίθεση με την απειλή που κοντοζυγώνει.Υ.Γ.
From BBC Radio 4 - Saturday Drama:Most famous for his Hornblower series, C.S. Forester wrote three seminal psychological thrillers at the start of his career that took crime writing in a new direction, portraying ordinary, desperate people committing monstrous acts, and showing events spiralling terribly, chillingly, out of control.The Pursued is a dark tale of retribution.When Marjorie finds Dorothy, her pretty young sister, lying dead with her head in the oven the obvious assumption is suicide.
She believes that Dorothy was murdered by Marjorie's cheating husband Ted. Unable to prove her theory, Mrs Clair begins to cook up a secret, terrible revenge.C.S. Forester's London NoirTHE PURSUEDBy C.
S. Forester, dramatized by Paul Mendelson
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Unlike the other two thrillers - "Plain Murder" (which I have read and reviewed) and "Payment Deferred" - "The Pursued", which was written in 1935, was not published during Forester's lifetime.
"The Pursued" is an enjoyable, readable novel.Set in the suburbs of London in the 1930s (when murder was a capital offence), "The Pursued" can best be described as an amalgam of sorts of the Noel Coward story and film "Brief Encounter", the Fitzrovia-based novels of English writer Patrick Hamilton and the psychological thrillers of American writer Patricia Highsmith.
Marjorie's mother is also a fully-rounded and convincing character who, aware of Ted's apparent involvement in her daughter Dot's death, plots and schemes to try to get revenge in a way that will keep the rest of her family together.
Τα 2/3 του βιβλίου περιγράφουν την ζωή της Αγγλίδας πρωταγωνίστριας και σε καμία περίπτωση δεν θυμίζει ψυχολογικό,καθηλωτικό θρίλερ. Ο ελληνικός τίτλος είναι αρκετά άστοχος καθώς δικαιολογείται μόνο προς το τέλος του βιβλίου και πάλι, χωρίς ιδιαίτερη ένταση.
In 1935, between writing his first and second Hornblower novels, C.S. Forester wrote a detective thriller that was never published and later turned up in an auction and was later published in 2011. Pay close attention to the last line for the final twist.
Had he chosen not to mistreat her sister even more cruelly, Marjorie is to type of character who would have waited for the course of time to free her from Ted.But this isn't a domestic tale of disappointed dreams.
As the blurb describes it, The Pursued is a dark, twisted tale of murder, lust and retribution.
This is a character driven tale, not action driven.The story is told from the viewpoint of each of the protagonists.
This is a very clever storytelling device, allowing us to know what the characters think is going to happen next.
Lovely design, great that it's been published but £14.99? Come one Penguin, CS Forester doesn't need the money - he's been dead for 45 years. Greedy fucks.-----------I loved the first half, less sure about the ending. It's good that it was found and published - CS is a great writer. Some typos that I guess are down to poor proofing but I would have been nice if Penguin had given some more info and history on this lost manuscript.
I enjoyed this book but was a little disappointed with the ending. It was easy to read and built up very well but the passionate love affair just seemed to peter out.
En este caso más que una temática (la novela negra) les uniría su caracterización como clásicos del negro.Así, tenemos inicialmente la novela “Los perseguidos” del escritor Cecil Scott Forester (1899-1966); novela que se trató de un manuscrito perdido durante casi 70 años y encontrado en 2003 cuando el autor ya había fallecido, había sido escrita, sin embargo, en 1935; en pleno auge de las novelas de detectives.Hablé hace poco sobre “suicidios aparentes”; un poco antes que el escritor japonés, Forester planteó otro de esos casos donde se nota desde el principio que hay gato encerrado por la forma en que ha muerto un personaje; pero Forester, sorprendentemente, no plantea el caso como una investigación estándar, si no que se centra (desde un narrador omnisciente, eso sí) más bien en cómo vive la situación la hermana de la fallecida, Marjorie, ante la posible amenaza de su marido:“Marjorie sabía perfectamente que aquella noche no iba a dormir: ahora permanecía siempre despierta, inquieta y nerviosa, cuando Ted se ponía “pesado”, y aquella noche fue mucho, mucho peor.
The early C.S Forester thrillers are really stressful reads, and i mean i am known for my nerves of steel and military-style control of my emotions. People are always banging on about Patrick Hamilton, and fair play he was a dude, but these London-set little 1930s noirs are every bit their equal. If you just cannot get enough of those grey rain-swept streets, the priggish suburban facade covering some real naughtiness, the intense sexual festering and nasty murders, you'd best get on these beauties, asap.
C.S.Forester reminds me so much in his style of writing, of George Orwell, and The Persued is one of three crime novels (Payment Deferred and Plain Murder making up the trio) written between the wars depicting the blue collar lives of individuals in suburban London, and of their attempts to satisfy a driving passion by whatever means at their disposal. I can recommend this Author to anyone born and bred in England who can travel back in time to twenties and thirties London.
GREAT writing by Forester, though it does show its age it's still inviting and teasing in its pace. I don't know, however, if the book ends on its limpy, wrong foot due to the time period when it was written or a clumsy move late in the plot.
Buenísimo libro tal como lo dice en su portada un clásico de novela negra. Es una lastima que casi nadie lo conozca.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
A bit old-fashioned and dated but nonetheless an enoyable light and easy read/listen.
But it seemed at early in his career when he was struggling to make his name, he wrote a few crime novels that were darker than the usual fare presented to British readers in between the two world wars.One of these was not discovered for seventy years but was published by Penguin Modern Classics in 2011 when they also reissued Payment Deferred (1926) and Plain Murder (1930).
It’s an era when independent career minded women like Marjorie’s spinster friends, are beginning to emerge, providing a sharp contrast to her own world of domestic duties and male dominance.
As the novel opens, Marjorie returns home one evening, expecting to find her unmarried sister, Dot, caring for her children.
Marjorie and her mother come to realize that Marjorie's loutish, cruel husband, Ted, is responsible, and Marjorie's mother concocts an elaborate plot to take revenge on him.Forester has a knack for pacing and suspense, but what he particularly got right were the suffocating details of Marjorie's stifling lower-middle-class life - washing on Monday (and mangling, and ironing), struggling back from the shops without a car, yielding reluctantly to her husband when he's inclined to 'be troublesome', anxiously guarding herself from the neighbourhood gossips, who are childless women with only an hour or two of housework to keep them occupied.
Forester struck me as very observant of the details of domestic life for a man writing in the 1930s.
It's the story of Marjorie, 32-year mother of two and trapped in a loveless marriage to insensitive Ted. The book starts with Marjorie's discovery of her sister's apparent suicide and her growing suspicions that Ted has murdered her.The minutiae of middle class suburban life in the mid-1930s is exceptionally well realised, and Forester once again shows what was, for mainstream fiction at the time, a sensitive and compassionate insight into the psychology of what can drive ordinary people to crime.
I am so pleased that I discovered Forester's 'other' works and really recommend them to lovers of tightly plotted and expertly crafted psychological crime fiction.© Koplowitz 2014

Ήταν ΚΑΚΟ και δεν είχε λόγο ύπαρξης. Το βιβλίο ονομάζεται "Οι καταζητούμενες" και οι πρωταγωνίστριες δεν καταζητούνται παρά μόνο στις τελευταίες 70-80 σελίδες στις οποίες και εκτυλίσσονται ουσιαστικά όλα τα ενδιαφέροντα γεγονότα (μη φανταστείτε γενικά πολύ ενδιαφέροντα ωστόσο). Στις πρώτες 200+ σελίδες του βιβλίου διαβάζουμε ένα βασανιστικό τίποτα που περιγράφει τη ζωή της μέσης αγγλίδας του '30 (ίσως και του σήμερα...) η οποία όπως όλοι μπορούμε να φανταστούμε ΕΙΝΑΙ ΒΑΡΕΤΗ (του κερατά). Νιώθω ότι έχασα πολύτιμο χρόνο απ' τη ζωή μου.
A forgotten gem by one of the all-time greats!
This is a fantastic book.
Forester has been a favorite of mine for a long, long time and getting a chance to read one of his lost novels, written while he was at the height of his powers, was a true treat.If you're a Forester fan, you want to read this book.
If you love great mysteries, building to an unforgettable climax, then you want to read this book.
If you like stories with heroes and heroines you can really root for, then you want to read this book.
I loved it!
Great book, but the ending was disappointing and the inclusion of the character Millicent was a little too convenient in many places. Largely well written, at some parts the language was too cliched, and in terms of crime fiction wasn't anything spectacular or highly original. Lovely dark novel however, a good, quick read. The characters were very well-developed - would have loved a twist, however.
What a gem of a book by the author of The African Queen and the Horatio Hornblower series! Glad that this 'lost' novel was found. Intriguing book set in the 1930's London, this book seems rather risqué for its time, but remains truly captivating and enthralling in its tale of lust, deceit, murder, and pursuit of happiness. Great read, and looking forward to read more of his novels.
¿Suicidio o asesinato? Nada haría sospechar que Dot no se ha quitado la vida. Ni siquiera el que la hallaran en el suelo de la cocina, con la cabeza en el horno. Al menos, así lo cree su hermana Marjorie, que no ve por qué podrían haber matado a la buena de Dot. Pero la madre de ambas no opina lo mismo: cree intuir quién se esconde tras la muerte de su hija, y está decidida a vengarla.
A woman’s body is discovered and her death is ruled suicide, but her mother suspects murder, thinks she knows who the killer is and plots revenge.I enjoyed this tale of murder and vengeance, some of the writing felt dated but it was still an entertaining (and slightly unusual) read.
Call off the search, if you will excuse the narrative pun, this is my favourite crime novel. Not so much a crime as a tragic horror story set in suburban London of the mid 1930s. It was written between the first and second of the author's famous Hornblower series apparently.
A nice, taut little thriller, in which I really had little idea of how the plot would unfold...
First two thirds or so a tad dull and then it became bloody miserable.
