https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36397.Great_Short_Stories_by_American_Women
The surge in popularity of sentimental stories in the latterpart of the 19th century America was both a boon and a bane tothe increasing numbers of new women writers wanting to have ago.
It has beautiful descriptive writing and givesyou a real feeling of rural life in the 1890s.Charlotte Perkins Gilman's "The Yellow Wallpaper" is an extraordinarystory of a woman's experience of post partum depression before itwas recognised as a genuine illness.
She did manage toput her feelings into this story, with even a special mention ofthe real life doctor, C.
I just read "The Yellow Room" at midnight last night - very creepy. Don't read this one late at night! Another one I really liked in this collection is "A Jury of Her Peers." These two women are patronized by the men but they are the smart ones, and keep their discovery under wraps from the men! Also, "Sweat," by Zora Neale Hurston with a cold, cruel, yet satisfying ending.
Transcendental Wild Oats by Louisa May Alcott:I feel like the audience’s reaction was probably “HAHA THIS IS HILARIOUS LOOK AT THESE DUMB HIPPIES” but Alcott was like “No seriously this is way too real and needs to stop.” Sister Hope for the Iron Throne?A White Heron by Sarah Orne Jewett: I want to eat Jewett’s words right up.
I can always count on you for socially heretical sexy adventures in a rainstorm.The Angel at the Grave by Edith Wharton:Another story where I’m not sure if we’re supposed to feel hopeful or not at the ending.
I haven't read all of the stories but can base my rating on those I have. A great variety of styles and subjects, and the short story makes available to me a wider range than I would seek out on my own. Favorite by far, Sarah Orne Jewett's "A White Heron." And I couldn't put down "Paul's Case" by Willa Cather. Not that it was pretty or pleasant; but the character and descriptions of his surroundings were peculiar and interesting.
This is a great anthology although incomplete. It is a good starter book for someone who wants to become familiar with female American writers. It covers a range of styles and topics and at the very least entices the reader to discover more female writers.
After the 2016 Tax Day Flood when our books were in storage and my attention span was limited, I resorted to reading short stories on my iPhone.
I’ve read several of these more than once, particularly A White Heron by Sarah Orne Jewett (1888).
In it, a girl tending her grandmother’s cow has observed a white heron, a bird that is sought after by the ornithologist who finds his way to their farm in its pursuit.
The girl understands the shotgun he carries would be used to document his discovery.
Like most short stories, this one doesn’t end with a bang but with a discovery nonetheless.
This collection is hard to review without context. The Louisa May Alcott story is dreadfully boring, but "A Jury of her Peers" and "Sweat" are amazing. I'm grateful to Dover for bringing them together so cheaply for classroom use!
There are some amazing stories in this book. Many will stay with me for sure. Many of these women I had never heard of and it’s baffling since these stories are all amazing in in their own way.
I don't think I was the intended audience for this book.
I put this on here, not only because it contains some essential readings (Perkins-Gilman's "The Yellow Wallpaper" and Glaspell's "A Jury of Her Peers" to mention just two), but because these Dover "thrift editions" are a steal!
These books are usually no more than 3 to 5 dollars and they stock a pretty good range of what could be called "classics." DO a web seach for Dover Thrift Edition, or the title of this one, and you'll see the whole list.Of course, some of the authors in here are real quality.
The collection contains mostly of stories that are heavily anthologized (The Yellow Wallpaper being the most obvious example), but I do think it's a very fine collection for what it represents: a small collection of excellent literature, and focusing mostly on the 19th and early 20th centuries.
Realism reigns supreme for most of them, with a slow shift into modernism, both movements are my personal favorites.
So consider all of these stories a "must" for anyone to consider oneself well read (in my humble opinion anyway, which isn't worth much but whatev).
Plus Dover keeps things dirt cheap, which is always a plus plus plus in my book.
I have had this book on my shelf for years.
Each of the thirteen stories is a classic of American literature, some written by familiar authors like Louisa May Alcott, Zora Neale Hurston, Edith Wharton, and Willa Cather, and others by authors who were new to me, such as Nella Larsen, Djuna Barnes, Susan Glaspell, and Alice Dunbar-Nelson.
A short biography and some background information on the writing accompanied each story.
My favorites were “A White Heron,” by Sarah Orne Jewett; “ A Jury of Her Peers,” by Susan Glaspell, and “Sweat,” by Zora Neal Hurston.
A few boring stories (early American lit, I do not like you), but also some real gems by favorites like Wharton, Cather, and Chopin. I like the range of viewpoints the book presents on the female characters, from witty to heartbreaking, and I was interested to see how being pigeon-holed as "local colorists" (Sarah Orne Jewett, for example) often allowed female authors to step out of the "Must be just like England!/Must be completely unlike England!" that preoccupied so many contemporary male authors.
I'm not a fan of short stories, but I must admit -- the selections for this book are well-chosen. Several literary heavy-hitters are included, such as Louisa May Alcott, Zora Neale Hurston, Edith Wharton, and Willa Cather. And, of course, there's the popular "Yellow Wall-Paper" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. These really are "great" stories, iconic even, making this collection a good addition to any library.
13 short stories by various authors dating back to the 1830s.The ones I liked best were: The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins Gilman A Jury of Her Peers by Susan Glaspell Sweat by Zora Neale Hurston
Most of the stories were highly enjoyable especially the six stories I had to read for an American literature course. This collection of short stories by American women are a great way to be introduced to some of the canonical women authors in American literature.
I read this for a literature class. My favorites were "Sweat" by Zora Neale Hurston and "Sanctuary" by Nella Larsen.
I really enjoyed these, and I didn't think I liked short stories. I want to read more fiction by most of these women.
Jumped straight into The Yellow Wall-Paper. Eep!
It's a collection of short stories. I enjoyed most of the stories. There were a few that I was definitely glad they were a short story but others that I wish had been longer.
I loved all the stories in this. My friend Margery gave this to me and I am so happy she did!
This was a good collection of short stories. I recall a few of them really standing out, and it was my introduction, really, to Kate Chopin. I regret that I no longer have a copy available.
Many of the late greats included in this sweet little anthology.
Pretty much I love this book because it has some amazing classic stories that help define American Literature.
I've read most of these stories, but I'm looking forward to taking the book to the beach today... like reconnecting with a good friend : )
never was a fan of short stories until a couple years ago. now the ones i hate end quickly and the ones i love, i can make my own endings.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11147626
Mostly stories very familiar to me from my undergrad, with a few I haven't read thrown in for excitement.
