https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121655.The_Mousetrap_and_Other_Plays
The mousetrap and Other Storie, Agatha Christie Three Blind Mice and Other Stories is a collection of short stories written by Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in 1950.
The first edition retailed at $2.50.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: تله موش و داستانهای دیگر؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: مریم زکریا؛ تهران، هرمس، کتابهای کارآگاه، 1380؛ در 275 ص؛ شابک: 9646641598؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ سوم 1387، در 275 ص؛ شابک: 9789646641594؛ موضوع: داستانهای پلیسی از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 ممجموعه داستان های کوتاه پلیسی: تله موش، آخرین جلسه، یک اتفاق، فقط ساعت شاهد بود، شبان بزرگ، روی موج عوضی، لانه ی بلبلا.
شربیانی
دوستانِ گرانقدر، از این کتاب "تله موش" را برای معرفی انتخاب کردم... این نمایش نامه یکی از آثارِ جاودانِ <آگاتا کریستی> به شمار میاد.... در این داستان، شما تا صفحاتِ پایانی، به دشواری میتوانید حدس بزنید که چه کسی قاتل استداستان از آنجایی آغاز میشود که در سرمای زمستان، مارین لیون، (خانمِ گریک)، در لندن کشته شده و این اخبار از رادیو پخش میشودمولی دیویس و ژیل گیلز، رستوراندار هستند و مسافرخانه ای کوچک به نامِ پانسیونِ مانکسول مانور را مدیریت میکنندپس از پخشِ خبرِ این جنایت، چند مسافر در فاصلهٔ
این نمایش نامه یکی از آثارِ جاودانِ <آگاتا کریستی> به شمار میاد....
در این داستان، شما تا صفحاتِ پایانی، به دشواری میتوانید حدس بزنید که چه کسی قاتل است‎داستان از آنجایی آغاز میشود که در سرمای زمستان، مارین لیون، (خانمِ گریک)، در لندن کشته شده و این اخبار از رادیو پخش میشود‎مولی دیویس و ژیل گیلز، رستوراندار هستند و مسافرخانه ای کوچک به نامِ پانسیونِ مانکسول مانور را مدیریت میکنند‎پس از پخشِ خبرِ این جنایت، چند مسافر در فاصلهٔ زمانی کوتاه، برایِ گریز از برف و کولاک، وارد مسافرخانه میشوند‎کریستوفر رن ...پاراویسینی...خانم بویل....سرگرد مت کالف و خانم کیس ول، کسانی هستند که در این پانسیون حضور دارند...
در ادامه کارگاهی به نامِ بازرس تروتر هم به این جمع اضافه میشود و چاشنیِ هیجان از جایی به داستان قدم میگذارد که یکی از این مسافران به قتل میرسد‎همین موضوع سبب میشود تا همه به یکدیگر شک داشته باشند...
What shall I say about an institution which is one of England's tourist attractions, along with Nelson's Column, Big Ben and Buckingham Palace?I read it as a short story and loved it: I read it as a play and loved it, despite knowing the secret: and finally, in 2009...A dream come true!

Published on occasion of 60th anniversary of Mousetrap, this collection includes eight of best Christie's plays. It includes Verdict, which was a play Christie wrote original and was not based on any of her previous novels or short stories. The other interesting play is the Witness for prosecution which has a different ending from the short play
The Mousetrap: I was expecting a tougher mystery to figure out, but it wasn't. I knew who the murderer was pretty early on (the skis).
Appointment with death... Mnhee meio seca. Gostei mais do original
Great collection of Agatha Christie's plays.
This makes these plays very dynamic and easy to read, although I would try to watch some of these as stage productions if the occasion presents itself.
I love how music plays a big role in Christie's novels (songs, nursery rhymes...) and this element is also used in some of the plays, which adds to the atmosphere beautifully.
Very character driven and a comment on history and society in the 1940-50s.Go back for Murder: 4⭐ loved how the element of going back in time is done for a stage production.
Short but brilliant. This seems so classic. All the suspicious parties ensconced in an old manor on the countryside during a snow storm. And a serial killer on the loose. I was pretty sure about the culprit early on, but nevertheless a very satisfying read.
I've only read The Mousetrap, so this is really only a partial review, but it's a great play to read. Christie really was a master at her craft; just about everyone since has been a poor imitation. Easy to read and a great little mystery with a fun twist at the end.Full review: http://jenn.booklikes.com/post/109683...
A turning point in the history of crime fiction , a very dramatic setting & a suspense story!
کتاب با توجه به شهرتی که داشت اصلا جذاب نبود مگر داستان اول که همان تله موش است، فقط در یکی از داستان ها پوآرو حضور داشت. بیشتر آثار کریستی رو خوندم و باید بگم این کتاب غیر از تله موش بقیه داستان هایش ضعیف است و اصلا ارزش خواندن ندارد!!
حدس اینکه کی قاتله،واقعن خیلی خیلی سخته
At first while reading this I was bored but when Sergeant Trotter comes in I found the story interesting. I read it as a play and a good time killer.
At the start of each episode of FAWLTY TOWERS, we are shown the sign outside the guest house.
There is an episode of FAWLTY TOWERS in which a rat is chased throughout the hotel.
My theory is that they took the comedic trappings of THE MOUSETRAP, dispensed with the mystery element and focused on what really drives the play: The tension between the guests and the hotel's proprietors.Did I mention the staircase?
FAWLTY TOWERS, created in the mid-seventies, would have filmed within blocks of the theatre where THE MOUSETRAP played.
May be it was all this hearsay that made me pick up this book.There were four plays in my edition of this book : And then there were none, Appointment with Death, The Hollow & The Mousetrap.
Even though the premise of Appointment with Death was a promising one, I was not much of a taker to it and neither did I finish The Hollow.
Little wonder Agatha Christie is called the queen of crime fiction for she creates a heightened sense of tension and suspense throughout the narrative.
تقریبن تمامی آثار آگاتا کریستی در آن سال ها توسط مترجمین حرفه ای و غیر حرفه ای به فارسی ترجمه می شد، و در کتاب های کیلویی گوتمبرگ (کیلویی ده تومان) به فروش می رسید.
با این همه لذتی که در آن زمان از خواندن آثار پلیسی و جنایی می بردیم، فراموش ناشدنی ست.اغلب آثاری که به نام آگاتا کریستی در فارسی چاپ و منتشر شده، مانند کارهای عنایت الله شکیباپور، بیشتر بصورت ترجمه ی آزاد، یا تالیف اند، که چیزهایی از اثر اصلی با خود داشتند.
In general I think that these plays are very good as plays, but as text I like Agatha Christie's novels better.
I think the novels are usually better-paced than about half of the plays in this collection, at least for reading.
So, overall, see the plays and read the novels if you have the chance, otherwise read the plays.
I don't think I've read the novel yet for any of these, so I can't really speak to which order is best.Also I found the Franklin Library edition in a used book shop, and it is so, so beautiful.
I only read the three original plays in this book.
The others were adaptations of her books that I have already read elsewhere.
I liked The Mousetrap the best though it was relatively easy to guess the murderer's identity.
I'm sure if I hadn't seen the marvelous Marlene Dietrich movie version of Witness for the Prosecution, I would have liked that play the best.
This was also the play that Agatha herself liked the best according to the Introduction.
Dame Agatha's second favorite was the last original play, Verdict.
I read this because I was IN a production ( as Christopher Wren!) in maybe 1982 at Calvin College, summer production with mostly Calvin alumni... Obviously one of the (is it THE longest?!) longest running productions of a play in history, in London.... and it is a great play... as so many of hers are...
I have only read 'The Mousetrap' and not the 'Other Plays'. This one will always stay close to my heart because it happened to be the first large-scale play that I performed [:
Loved it! The plays are racier than the books.
ترسناک بود-_-
This volume contains three of the most famous stage thrillers of all time – Ten Little Indians, The Mousetrap, and Witness for the Prosecution – as well as some lesser-known Christie plays.As the longest-running West End play, The Mousetrap has a permanent place in theater history and a lot of hype built up around it.
(There’s also a nice young couple whom the audience can identify with.)By comparison, Ten Little Indians and Witness for the Prosecution both have plots that take refuge in audacity.
My favorite play was Ten Little Indians because it had a lot of suspense and the ending was nothing like what I had expected. It was chilling to see how each character died. All of the plays had character growth and were fun to read, however some started off very slowly. Most of the stories have long introductions for the characters before the mystery begins. The only cliffhanger was in Witness for the Prosecution, but the stories didn’t need a cliffhanger to be scary. Most of the stories are s
My favorite play was Ten Little Indians because it had a lot of suspense and the ending was nothing like what I had expected.
All of the plays had character growth and were fun to read, however some started off very slowly.
Ten Little Indians used a scary children’s rhyme to tell the story which has unexpected twists in each stanza and had excellent use of irony.
Appointment with death and Witness for the Prosecution use out of order storytelling and pacing to create suspense.
The mystery stories were chilling and full of suspense.

I finally did it -- I read the infamous Mousetrap -- and I am happy to report it's great.
Christie was one of the true masters of mystery writing, but as The Mousetrap nicely illustrates she was also very funny; while the play is not a comedy, her sense of wit and timing is fully on display, and there's plenty of levity to help leaven the tension.
It's also impressively meta -- the character of Paravicini especially reeks of commentary on the genre.
If you love mystery, either get to a live production of this one or read it as soon as you can.
Overall,I really liked this book. However since it was straight plays it did get a little tiring after awhile. The stories themselves were wonderful Agatha Christie is such a phenomenal writer. Having to keep up with staging and characters can be annoying. I'm also not accustomed to reading straight plays.
Agatha Christie usually gets 5 stars from me because she is brilliant! I loved her plays. Two of them I’ve read in novel form, and I can’t wait to read the novels of the others. I’m not lying when I say that I loved all the plays in this anthology - each one had a perfectly crafted murder mystery. It takes a second to get used to reading a script, but this is totally worth the read!
Found this 1981 edition at flea market by chance. This is an exceptional collection of 8 plays by Agatha Christies. Only a literature genius could wrote it. Will give this to my mum to add her collection of Christie's since her youth day.
