https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/883051.Tacky_the_Penguin
HOW MANY TOES DOES A FISH HAVE?AND HOW MANY WINGS ON A COW?
This is a mildly funny and sweet story about an unconventional penguin and his conformist peers.For me, the names of all the penguins were the most amusing part of the book.This book has some good messages: that being odd or different and being your own person can be a huge positive, and that it’s worth it to make friends with those who might, on the surface, seem weird in any way. It could make a great read aloud book for groups of children to discourage them from ostracizing anybody. Along with these lessons, it’s simply a fun book.
I don't normally read children's picture books but this one was just so cute and funny! My coach gave all of the girls on my basketball team a copy of this book. She read it to us during practice one day and we even named our mascot after Tacky. My coach wanted us to know that being different is a good thing, especially when it saves your companions from being captured by hunters :)
This is a great book to show that being different is a good thing.
They marched at a perfect beat while Tacky did his own thing.
Because he was different, he convinced the hunters that the bunch of them couldn't possibly be the perfect penguins because of the way he marched, and the song he sang off key.
This book truly shows how being different is not bad at all and everyone has their own personality, and perhaps being different will be a great thing one day.LE:Have the students decorate their own penguin cut out with different materials.
Tacky is an odd bird.
Perhaps that's why none of the kindergarteners this year and last seemed to dig it either.
I tried it last year when I was trying to build my kindergarten readaloud list (so many places recommend it) and it bombed a bit.
Same thing happened this year.
However, I didn't find the book funny.
I don't particularly like the other penguin's names (6 year olds don't get the joke) nor did I like reading them in one long breath.
That said, many many people love this book.
I'm just not going to read it during story time anymore.
My son loves this book. He's a reluctant reader, but he reads this one multiple times a day. He even read it to his father while his father was doing the dishes so that his father could "imagine the pictures."
Tacky does everything the other penguins do but just a little bit differently.
Tacky is never accepted by the other penguin’s because they think that it’s there way or the highway.
The other penguins are astonished and finally accept Tacky as one of their fellow Penguins.
This book would be perfect to teach students the idea of acceptance.
It is very important for the classroom community for all students to accept on another so starting they year off with this book would be beneficial.
Overall this book is a fun way for young students to see that people’s differences are good and they should accept them.
This book was about a penguin who marches to his own drummer. A good book to use to teach kids it's ok to be different, very funny, kids loved it.
If you read it in a crazy voice children will fall in love with this book. Last year's class would sing "How many toes does a fish have?" at recess. Go figure.
Really funny and good for kids with a mindset of a 5 year old
Tacky is most definitely one of my favorite characters from children's literature. I suppose I should start by saying that if it were possible to have a fictional spirit animal, Tacky would probably be mine. He is a bit odd. He does not quite fit in with the other pretty penguins. He marches to the beat of his own drum (1-2-3, 4-2, 3-6-0, 2 1/2, 0). Nonetheless, Tacky always turns out to be a good bird to have around.For my full review (with cat picture!), visit my blog:https://booksonmycat.wordpress.com/20...
Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
Adorable and funny. Just be yourself and don't worry about whether you "fit in" or not. A very sweet book.
We laughed as we listened to the audio 😆
Tacky the silly penguin Tacky is silly and funny. It’s a good book that kids laugh at. It’s nice to realize that it’s ok to be silly and odd because you can still be a good friend.
This book teaches children that it is okay to be different. It has fun colorful pictures and repeating lines that the children could learn, for an interaction piece. Tacky even dresses different than the other penguins which I thought was a unique twist on being different.
You should never judge a book by its cover! To his friends, he seemed odd but his "odd" behavior wound up saving them. This book teaches children to treat others how you would want to be treated. Great message for young children!
This story teaches young children that it is okay to be different and unique. It shows that it does not matter what someone looks like, but rather how selfless, brave, and kind he or she is. This story also introduces suspense, rhyming, and a variety of vocabulary words.
As you read about Tacky, he does everything different than the other penguins.
The hunters run away when they can't take it anymore, and the penguins quickly realize that Tacky is a great penguin to have around.I loved reading about Tacky, as I never had before.
If I were Tacky I would be happy that I was different, and that I was able to save my friends from the hunters.
By the end of the story I wanted to read it again and fell in love with Tacky and his ability to be different than his friends.
Tacky the Penguin by Helen Lester, illustrated by Lynn Munsinger, is the first of a series of books about Tacky (a nonconformist) and his graceful, well-behaved companions: Goodly, Lovely, Angel, Neatly, and Perfect.
TAcky's behavior, loud Hawaiian shirts, loud singing, & splashy cannonball dives initially puts off his companions.
The illustrations by Lynn Musinger perfectly show the oddities and madcap behavior of Tacky.
Lester's text is a hoot with the contrast of the clone-like Goodly, Lovely, Angel, Neatly, and Perfect, and the exuberance of Tacky.
Themes include friendship and being an individual.For ages 4 to 7, penguin and animal themes, and fans of Tacky, Lester, and Munsinger.
I like this one by the author of "Hooway for Wodney!" Really cute story.
And I like the pictures, too.
And I had such fun reading the narration, doing voices, and "singing" the songs.
I think the children were highly entertained by my reading.
(I entertained myself!) And I believe they enjoyed the story, too.4/18/12 Wonderful wind-up to my Adventures!
Still, I couldn't not read Tacky without all my vim and vigor and crazy voices and singing.
I think the kids enjoyed it.
But overall it was quite fun and I think kids and adults all enjoyed it.
How couldn't they?
We introduced this "finale`" story this way...Everybody stand upNow... tap-tap, tap-tap, tap-tap, tapioca everybody -- FREEZE! (tapping toes or heels)Now let's slap-slap, slap-slap, slap-slap, slapioca everybody -- FREEZE! (slapping thighs)Now let's clap-clap, clap-clap, clap-clap, clapioca everybody -- FREEZE! (clapping hands)Now let's flap-flap, flap-flap, flap-flap, flapioca everybody -- FREEZE (slapping sides)Last time -- tap-tap, tap-tap, tap-tap, tapioca everybody -- FREEZE! (tapping toes or heels--opposite of what you did the first time)Hey! That reminds me of a story about a funny little penguin named TACKY!Go here and watch video clip for tune: http://www.stlyrics.com/lyrics/thorou...
Tacky the Penguin is a great book to read aloud but is even better to listen to on CD.
This is great for ages 4-8 and the illustrations capture the mood of each penguin in a whimsical and colorful way.
Helen Lester does a great job bringing Tacky, a loud odd penguin to life.
Tacky lives with a group of five formal and proper penguins but Tacky is nothing like them.
In this book you will find out how a loud, odd penguin saves the day from a mean pack of hunters.
This is a great book to use in the classroom to teach about being an individual.
I thought this was a nice book.
I liked that Tacky danced to the beat of his own drum.
I find that people have a hard time in doing this.
I liked how his personality came through in his actions.
I also liked that in the end it was Tacky that saved the day and the others were grateful for what he did.
It shows that everyone has a special quality and it just takes the right time for it to come to light for others to see it.
I really just like penguins in general so pretty much any story about them I will like.
The message "it's okay to be different" is a popular one in the world of picture books. Unfortunately, it's usually paired with vivid examples of people harassing the different person - comes a point in Rudolph, for example, where I wonder why the red-nosed reindeer agreed to help any of them!Tacky manages to avoid that. Tacky is different from the other penguins, and doesn't fit in, but they don't go out of their way to make him feel bad for that. And then, of course, his differences go on to save the day. Well, that and his bad singing.
Features: repetition, interesting pictures with facial expression. There's singing, so it makes it fun to do the voices. Fun read! Moral: it's good to be different or to be tolerant of others' differences.
This book was a great read especially when dealing with diversity of any kind. Everyone is their own individual and should not be placed in the same category even if of the same religion, ethnicity,etc. Tacky was deffinetly an odd penguin but in the end he saved the day and was so loveable.
Tacky was an odd bird. It is a simple truth. My family has gotten a lot out of this book, and I believe it is the best out of all of the Tacky books. The best part is sometimes if I just do something random, my parents will look at me for a moment and say, "Tacky was an odd bird." Very good book.
Our son loved this book. Great for 5 and 6 year olds. Tacky seemed an odd bird to the other penguins but sometimes having a renegade in the crowd has benefits for the whole group. Cute and funny.
This is a book that can be read during circle time. The meaning of this book can teach children that it's okay to be different and just be who you are. The illustration was very detailed.
