https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854676.From_Death_to_Morning
I'm still not decided whether or not I liked Wolfe's long phrases, with minute descriptions and infinite epithets.
We'll see.***Caci marile distante ale acestei lumi sint cele fractionare, diferentele inspaimintatoare sint cele pe care le putem masura cu palma, cu pasul, cu centimetrul, si care ne despart intr-atit de lumea pe care o vedem, de incaperea, de usa prin care vrem sa intram, de parca le-am privi de la distante astronomice al caror gol nu se poate masura sau umple.
****.My only contact with the writings of Wolfe was about fifty-five years ago, when I read “Look Homeward Angel.” I ate that novel up: the style was relatively new to me, and I had ample opportunity to read that big book in long stretches while I was riding the train to center city each day to attend classes.
They were – for the most part – descriptions of simple encounters between the story teller (Wolfe?) and a stray subject.
All of the stories were published in the 1930s, and I tried to figure out where Wolfe fit into the styles of the times.
He was such a different type of story teller that I couldn’t come up with any comparison.
o carte gasita in podul casei bunicilor mei..nu mi-a fost recomandata insa n-am regretat ca am citit-o..din pacate nu am ajuns la finalul cartii..ce pot sa zic?!o carte in care iti sunt descrise in detaliu morti absurde..si in acelasi timp reactia oamenilor,unoeri nepasatori si chiar cruzi in ceea ce priveste ororile unei morti..un tanar care traieste in brooklyn, singur, in conditii mizere..singurele lui activitati sunt plimbarile prin acest oras..sunt curioasa ce final poate avea..oricum merita citita de cei pasonati de crima si psihologie like me..
I found the last story hard to get through. Other stories were quite readable. It is Wolfe, what do you expect.
it's delicious.
It is, maybe, the best book that exists. This is my preferred book.


This collection of short stories by one of my top 5 favorite authors of all time was pretty darn good, but not as good as his novels. As always, there are sentences here and there that are the most beautiful pieces of prose you will encounter, and in his longer stories he has the ability to weave together many characters and stories from past and present. If you've never read Thomas Wolfe, I wouldn't start with this book. But if you've read his main novels and are looking for more of his mellifluous voice, this is a fun easy collection.
Non sono veri e propri racconti, il critico Nuhn Ferner li definì più correttamente prosimetri, brani che accolgono l'alternanza tra prosa e poesia. Sono ritratti che si concentrano sui fondamentali della nostra esistenza: Vita, Morte, Guerra, Patria. E così, da questa prospettiva, Dalla morte al mattino è la corretta testimonianza di quell'intenzione che aveva Wolfe, l'idea di scrivere tutto, di ogni uomo di ogni tempo, a partire da se stesso.Continua qui: https://goo.gl/CZjW74
"a moment of dark time, one of strange million-visaged time's dark faces."
From Death to Morning by Thomas Wolfe (1963)
Brilliant man, what a gift.
Benché in quasi tutti i racconti sia possibile trovare traccia della vita di Wolfe, tanto da far pensare che non si possa vedere la sua scrittura astratta dall'esperienza personale, i racconti migliori sono quelli dove fonde i ricordi autobiografici e li espande fino a renderli universali.Continua qui: http://bit.ly/1Yd8R20
