https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15433.Night_Mare
So nostalgic going back and rating this. I think I still have a few of the Xanth series floating around in my paperback boxes. Really was one of my favorite series as a Young Adult.
A nightmare is actually a mythological creature30 December 2011 Well, at this point in the Xanth series we are starting to move away from the main characters from the previous books to single books, set in Xanth, evolving around a new character. In this novel we meet Mare Imbrium, a Night Mare. Nightmares are given the task of carrying bad dreams to the people of Xanth. However Imbrium's problem is that she has obtained half a soul (which she got from the previous book) and this has affected her
However Imbrium's problem is that she has obtained half a soul (which she got from the previous book) and this has affected her ability to carry out her task.
However, a little research has revealed that nightmares have been connected with horses long before the development of Dungeons and Dragons, and in fact are demonic creatures in German folklore (as is evident by this painting, so it seems that Anthony's pun has backfired):	The other thing that I immediately noticed after reading the outline of the book, and that is the name of the nightmare.
She's the author's first female protagonist in this series, and though she is a horse (a night mare to be exact), she's still handled with the same sort of disrespect that Anthony frequently frames his female characters.
It was very clear that the man wearing a gold band was the same person as the horse wearing it, so I don't know what Anthony was trying to pull with that revelation.
I also thought the succession of kings was interesting .
But for some reason, especially when I was a kid, I found it engaging to find out who'd be the next king to lead Xanth through an influx of attacks from Mundania while fearing being the next to be captured.
Once I slogged through Night Mare I no longer wanted to spend time with this writer, and it’s for the strangest reason: This book, featuring a female protagonist destined to save her kingdom from ultimate destruction, is just a diatribe against women.Imbri is a former Night Mare, a horse that brings bad dreams to all the people in Xanth.
Imbri and her companions are constantly demeaned, and usually it’s the women themselves that are constantly talking about the weaknesses of their gender.
For me, it’s going to take a long time before I will be able to get back to Xanth.
I think this is the only Anthony book I've ever read. I don't know why I never read more of him so I could have the horrific double-vision OH GOD NO experience later in life so many of my GoodReads peers did. I mean, that sounds so appealing! ....I think I was distracted by Le Guin.
Vielleicht sind sie deswegen in Deutschland nicht so populär und bekannt wie die Werke von Terry Pratchett, es kann auch sein, dass sie gerne nur als "leichte Kost für zwischendurch" behandelt werden.
Nach dem Motto: "Liest man eines, kennt man alle."Sicher - die Struktur ist bei allen Bänden gleich: Heldin - in diesem Fall die Night Mare Imbri - bricht zur typischen Queste auf und der Roman arbeitet dann mit allen Mitteln der Heldenreise, die man so kennt.
Und ja, einige Episoden sind in diesem Roman auch nicht so gelungen oder einfach zu lang: Die Hochzeits-Szene, die Geschichte mit der Sphinx etwa.
The Night Stallion sends an emissary from the Gourd, Mare Imbri, to work with Chameleon and stop the kings of Xanth from being taken out before there aren't any more sorcerers left to fill the position.As many of the characters from the first four novels are in that line of succession, we get to revisit all our old friends.
In particular, I was very happy to read about Bink again - the main character from the first two Xanth novels.
All the plot twists combined with the riddle-filled prophesies made me wish I could just spend a full day reading to see what happens next!I was totally wrong in trying to figure out the line of succession for Xanthian kings after Dor; I never could have imagined who the last two kings would be.While I predicted the true identity of the Horseman long before it was revealed, I wasn't quite certain about my assumption -- I was actually second-guessing myself and wavering quite a bit by the time Chameleon and Humfrey explained the truth to Imbri.
The ending was excellent -- I felt completely satisfied and am looking forward to seeing what happens in the next book.I recommend this for kids, or for people who, like myself, are young at heart.
Sometimes when feeling down and in need of an escape, I visit Xanth.
Again, I am glad I did as Night Mare is a light, fun, fast, enjoyable read.Anthony employs the same successful formula as compared to prior installments..
Yet he still manages to keep each forthcoming story fresh and creative.
This particular volume reunited me with several favorite characters from all prior editions.
The dream world aspect continues to be fascinating and entertaining.
The major mystery revelation is fairly obvious.
The finale, especially the last sentence, is very sweet.Highly recommended for those seeking a brief entertaining escape from reality.
L'auteur sait y faire ! Cette fois-ci, plus question de suivre Bink ou une de ses connaissances : on se retrouve en compagnie de Imbri, une cavale de la nuit vraiment très attachante. Une nouvelle façon d'explorer le pays magique nous est ainsi offerte. Bien évidemment, l'humour est toujours là et surtout, toujours aussi bon !
The story works very well as a culmination of the books that had followed. Seeing most of the main characters from preceding books play, sometimes small, yet useful parts in the story was quite enjoyable. While I didn't find myself to invested in the main heroine, I still found her a fine character and a fine catalyst for the stories monumental war on Xanth.
In his way, the author is trying to support women's equality, but it is just a little too condescending from the height of male superiority. The horses are a little too fantasitical for me
Very enjoyable.
I rate it a great big, meigh.
Like the point of view the story follows.
LOVED this one!!
loved it, but a little slower then the others.
Everyone born in Xanth (human or otherwise) is born with a magical talent.2.
4. The King of Xanth is the person who has the most powerful talent, as this allows them to protect their subjects.
5. Any person who does not have a magical talent was not born in Xanth (see rule 1) and is therefore exiled from Xanth (to prevent illegal immigration).In particular, this book sets up the rules for ascension to ruler.
The plot of the book being that some unknown person wants to eliminate the government of Xanth by incapacitating the King.
I may have held on to it because of the extensive use of the nightmare world of the “gourds,” but I suspect that it was just the luck that in this case the cover never fell off.At the time I first read, I probably would have given it three or four stars.
She finds herself caught up in an invasion of the magical realm of Xanth by “mundanes” from our world who hope to conquer and destroy.
The mundanes have a secret weapon that eliminates each new King of Xanth in succession, leaving it without leadership in its time of need.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
I liked the book, but had trouble getting into the first half of the story.
It probably deserves 3 1/2 stars instead of the three I gave it.For those who read Ogre, Ogre, you will find some of the same characters appear in this story, including the main character, Mare Imbrie.
Still carrying a half of a soul, Imbrie has not been doing well as a Night Mare.
The Night Stallion sends her out into the day, with a warning to King Trent to "Beware the horseman!" However, King Trent becomes enchanted.
And it is the story of Night Mare Imbrie that brings this cast of characters together.
Night Mare reads like a lazy attempt to revisit all of the characters from the previous novels in the Xanth series.
It will be the last Xanth book that I read, and probably the last Piers Anthony book that I read.While younger readers might appreciate the childish humor, mainly in the form of puns and wordplay, Night Mare-- like almost all of the other Xanth novels, offers nothing for someone wanting to delve into a good fantasy novel.
Though, in Night Mare, a few women finally take part in battle and take the throne, it is only a few pages of the story before the girls fall.
Night Mare (and the rest of the Xanth series) sadly didn't hold up to a re-reading as an adult, but as a pre-teen and young teenager, I found these hilarious and wonderful.Piers Anthony specializes in a kind of subversive and dirty humor that's just on this side of not appropriate for children.
That combined with the mythology made for absorbing childhood reading for me.The one thing that saved the book upon my adult re-read was the amazingly intricate world that Anthony has created for Xanth.
Imbrium is a Night Mare who, like many in her land, gets charmed by the Horseman while investigating the rash of kidnapped Xanthian kings.
As more and more of Xanth's royalty are getting transported to a hypnotic state, the next successor must take the throne, and it may be up to Imbrium to break the chain.This was the only Xanth book that I liked as much as the first one.
Imbrium is the author's first female protagonist, though she is a horse.
Her big downfall is that she cannot resist the sexiness of a male horse and her weakness overcomes her.
I thought this was almost exactly as entertaining a book, with lots of cute puns and an interesting story.
I still think that's pretty clever wordplay there, and I thought Mare Imbri was an appealing, sympathetic character who didn't have enough meanness in her to really make people suffer in their sleep.
All in all it makes me nostalgic for a time when the Xanth books were all about the story, and less about raunchy, twee ideas with as many bad puns as you could collect from readers and then cram into a paperback.
Update: figured out what happened to my review.
Definitely shouldn't try to do this when I'm sick because I hit the wrong button, lost my window and ended up starting a completely new review with a different edition without realizing it.
Eventually, I'll write a more in depth review, but the short version is if you do not like puns, you won't enjoy any of the Xanth novels.
If you want to laugh, sit back an enjoy the ride.Re-reading this for the I-don't-know-how-many-th time.
I was left with such a smile and I almost want to read it again right away, but i've been unpacking books this past week, so who knows what will be next!
A night mare that no longer does well delivering bad dreams has a problem.
Xanth is being invaded by the NextWave of Mundanians, another problem.
The Kings of Xanth are being ensorcerelled, another problem.
How will all the problems be solved?
The best part of these books is they can be read more than once simply because there is so much to discover that you missed the first time around.Note, the Accelerated Reader test has a mistake and says Day Mare insted of Day Stallion which will cause you to answer that question wrong.

"Naturally no human person was a handsome as a horse."First non humanoid-protagonist in a Xanth novel, Night Mare features mare Imbrium (named after the "mares" on the Moon - a tidbit I had to look up, then found interesting) attempting to help thwart a barbarian invasion from Mundania.I love prophecies, because I love spending the book trying to figure things out. Anthony is great at creating a story, where, at the climax, everything falls perfectly into place. Eureka! Plus, a horse as a heroine!
I read some of the books in this series a long time ago and I remember that while the first three were decent the next three were not as good. I recently reviewed the plot of this book after re-reading Centaur Aisle and unfortunately while the world is great and the characters are good the writing is bogged down with so much unnecessary detail. It's a shame really because I could have seen myself reading the rest of the series if the books were shorter, especially since I remember really liking the mare in this book.
