https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16856.Flappers_and_Philosophers
He gave the effect of towering self-confidence erected on a slight foundation — just under the surface of each of his decisions she discerned a hesitancy that was in decided contrast to the arrogant curl of his lips.Being a supreme egotist Ardita frequently thought about herself; never having had her egotism disputed she did it entirely naturally and with no detraction from her unquestioned charm.
Though she was nineteen she gave the effect of a high-spirited precocious child, and in the present glow of her youth and beauty all the men and women she had known were but driftwood on the ripples of her temperament.
Almost all of the stories can be classified as "coming of age" stories in the early twentieth century.The book starts off with a strong and rebellious nineteen-year-old girl in “The Offshore Pirate.” That first story was probably my favorite.
But Fitzgerald had great sympathy for his female characters – “The Cut-Glass Bowl” featured a downfall of one of them, and the strong character of Marjorie in “Bernice Bobs Her Hair” explains how the young girls can become withered and unloved housewives, many of whom are disapprovingly interspersed into that story.
This is not his best writing. I'm guessing Zelda didn't help much. These stories just kept him in the bucks. I'm not shying away from reading his novels because of these short stories. I don't feel like these reflect his talent.
Flappers and Philosophers: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...I must admit what drew me to the collection, despite of course the name of Fitzgerald, is the title.
I mean, come on, Flappers and Philosophers is simply genial.
And yet somewhat magically Fitzgerald manages to balance the duality of flapper and the philosopher in his characters.
I must say, all of us women are flappers and philosophers, simultaneously.
Whatever works for us at that particular moment.The stories in Flappers and Philosophers are of course about the Jazz Age – the excess, the debauchery and the greed associated with it.
Scott Fitzgerald's writing career.
Remarkably fresh, tender, funny, well crafted—free from the tropes that drive me nuts in a lot of contemporary short fiction: the bogs of interior monologues, the random slices of life in which nothing happens (and what's the point...?), the let's stop the story abruptly on the cusp of the action "technique." A stubborn young woman's ship is overrun by "pirates" and she makes a surprising course correction.
A young woman on the cusp of a romantic rendezvous visits her brother, a monk.
A young man hears the siren song of easy criminality.

Scott Fitzgerald's booksYou're very well readIt's well known"-Bob Dylan "Ballad of a Thin Man"I could tell that "Flappers" was the work of a young writer.
Other times it felt like Mr. Fitzgerald was trying to pop off the page saying, "Ooh!
Isn't my dialogue believable?" I guess subtlety was not young Mr. Fitzgerald's strong suit: his narrative voice can be at times like a megaphone.THAT having been said, I enjoyed the crap out of these stories.
And there's nothing I like more than a good book of good short stories.
I'm going to read more of this man's work in the near future.
Flappers and Philosophers, published in 1920, is a collection of mostly forgettable stories that lionize the rich and rarely challenge the reader’s world view.
Fitzgerald is obsessed by head-strong girls, and nearly every story paints her in vivid colors.
These early attempts suffer from a sense that they just seem too contrived, that Fitzgerald is trying stuff out or simply didn’t know how else to end the story.I found “Benediction” the most interesting story because it deals head-on with religion.
I found it rediculous, and I think it is the worst story in the collection.
I think that one is among the best stories in the book.
There are other stories like "Head and shoulder" which are interesting, but lack something to become really good.
With "Head and shoulder" it is that the characters that are just a little too talented, a little too great, for the story to become interesting.
It is a fair enough first collection, with some very good stories, some okay ones, and others that really don't work for me at least.
Things aren't all as they seem.THE ICE PALACE 4Sally Carrol thinks that she wants a different life than the one she leads in the South, with a man who isn't like the boys she grew up with.
Her engagement to Henry and her trip North show her what that different life would be like.HEAD AND SHOULDERS 3.5Horace Tarbox is known as a prodigy.
In particular, the details of the story present a fascinating glimpse into the times in which Fitzgerald lived.
Fitzgerald, though, indicates awareness of the impact of racism (and a lack of geographical knowledge), by having the main character in "The Offshore Pirate," say, "If he'd been white he'd have been king of South America by now," and go on to praise the man's intelligence (which the female he speaks to finds ridiculously funny).
In this way, Fitzgerald is showing us how the rich and fashionable set of that time thinks, but we can't assume that he, too, buys into it, at least not from this story.
First, though, I was intrigued by Fitzgerald's first short story collection.Published the same year as his debut novel, This Side of Paradise (1920), Flappers and Philosophers is mostly a subtle and sensitive look into the 1920s with echoes of Fitzgerald's private life here and there.
Sally's growing disillusionment and the abstract need for something big culminates in an ice palace, where loneliness turns into a hazy and dreamlike wave of crystal clear ice, and Fitzgerald's prose tinkles like ice cubes in a glass.For me, Flappers and Philosophers wasn't a complete success, but the few diamonds made me confident to continue with more Fitzgerald.
3.5 starsI really enjoyed this collection of short stories, so much so I read it in two days.One particular aspect of every story I really loved was the character development.
In the matter of a few pages, it felt as if this character was fully sculpted in my mind.So many of these stories had so so much potential, and I found myself wanting more at the end of all of them.
It left me somewhat frustrated at certain points, however surely it is positive if I am still craving for more?I definitely would recommend this novel if you are wanting an introduction to American literature, because these stories cover the main themes you can find.
More Flapp than Philo but who's counting?! A couple three were really good and flapper philosophy rules obeisance in these jazzy skirts.
Fitzgerald captures a time when disillusionment with progress & purpose led to aestheticism & cleverness.
As with much other Fitzgerald work, this collection of eight stories ignites joy and admiration.A reader can see early imprints of Gatsby in “The Offshore Pirate” although the racial epithets at various points shock a bit.
“The Ice Palace,” a re-read for me, reveals a deeper, more complex writer, and again “hidden” points of view and prejudices rise and reveal themselves.“Head and Shoulders” simply is a “fun” story.
Hmmm.Like the other short story collections of Fitzgerald, almost all, if not all, the stories bring a joy in the reading.

F. Scott Fitzgerald is a master at evoking the era he coined The Jazz Age. Each story in this collection is cinematic in tone and made me feel as if I had stepped back in time and become immersed in the world of the roaring twenties.
The wonderful thing about Fitzgerald, though, is that even if I hated the premise of a story or the characters within it, by the end I was still shaking my head and admitting his story-telling genus.**A warning for modern audiences: Fitzgerald's characters use racial slurs on occasion.
This made me uncomfortable even though I understand these stories are of their time.**
I enjoy Fitzgerald's short stories. He tends to have an intriguing take on society and how certain classes if people should act. His symbolism is vibrant, and while the message/theme isn't always clear, his descriptions are beautiful and remarkable. Favorite short stories from this collection: The Offshore Pirate, The Cut-Glass Bowl, and The Four Fists.
Classic Fitzgerald stories. If you read these unaware of the author, I think you'd guess in a minute. As always with a collection, there were some better than others, but overall they worked very well. Glad to have ticked this off my Fitzgerald list and I think, just maybe, I've read all of his short stories now. Still a couple of novels to go though!
Beautiful. My love for Fitzgerald began in high school. I've always loved his elegant writing. Beautiful is the only way to describe it. This edition, by the way, is beautiful as well. It's from Penguin, of course.
Fitzgerald is an exceptional writer, I believe. I took a lot from him in these short stories. In each story it was never the same character. Every character had a different dream and future, which always made me devour every story in this book.
He is also able to imbue small, what would to other authors be insignificant, objects or actions with enough interest as to keep suspense throughout the short story.
At times the prose or action is boring and the endings predictable.
A must read for any who like Fitzgerald and a great collection to read, perhaps not all at once, but when you are in the mood for a poignantly written look at wealth and society and relationships and disillusionment and witty entertainment or to be taken back to what was a small but spectacular time in recent American history.
“To be afraid, a person has either to be very great and strong - or else a coward. I'm neither.“This one is his first collection of short stories, but the prose is still beautiful. I really liked how he portrayed the female characters, driven and head-strong. Some stories were delightful, some made barely sense but all very readable since he touched on different topics and the social history during his time. I have a weird love-hate-relationship when it comes to Fitzgerald, but I still truly enjoy his work.
Despite being at times a bit overwritten and cartoonish, it is clear why Fitzgerald initially made his name with these stories. There are moments of sustained brilliance. ‘Benediction’ is a perfect story.
F. Scott’s great!!!
4,5*Miluju Fitzgeralda! Některé povídky byly méně zábavné, jiné více, ale celkově je jeho styl psaní neuvěřitelně čtivý a hrozně mě baví.
Writing to his editor Maxwell Perkins in 1922 about the shorty story “Tarquin of Cheapside,” which worried Perkins because the story supposes that the events of the William Shakespeare poem “The Rape of Lucrece” actually occurred, thus making the most famous writer in history a rapist, Fitzgerald wrote: “Structurally it is almost perfect and next to ‘The Off-Shore Pirate’ I like it better than any story I have ever written.” (The Letters of F.
There’s a connection to Fitzgerald’s family background as one character is a wholesale grocer—just like Scott’s grandfather P.F. McQuillan!“Dalyrimple Goes Wrong” is somewhat atypical, as it’s one of the few Fitzgerald short stories without a beautiful girl in it.
Some stories were better than others. The 20s were a weird and interesting decade.
"Offshore Pirate" tells of a bored, spoiled young beauty on her way to rendezvous with an older "cad" as much to upset her family as anything else.
But aside from that, it is a nice story that is of course part flapper and part philosopher"The Ice Palace" also features a bored beautiful young girl living in the south who falls in love with a northerner.
