https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23492589-finders-keepers
Then you will read fan reviews wherein this is touted as the mostest bestest thing since Adam and Eve finally realized what that swelling between Adam's legs was good for.
I gave it five stars because I fucking loved that book.
If you want to have a respectable discussion about this book's flaws, by all means, let's do that, but don't come into my house and bitch about the carpet.
The book starts with character development on par with some of King's best work, then devolves into tedious plot setup with little to no action.
Shit don't mean shit.That's a "famous quote" by the author John Rothstein, who penned the Jimmy Gold books.
Rothstein pretty much didn't give two craps about his fans whining about only three Gold books being released.
Morris was introduced to Jimmy Gold's character by a well-meaning teacher who told him.You and Jimmy Gold will get along.
He wants to help his family way more than I found believable for a young kid.
Usually, King's characters are some of the very best parts of any of his books.
The first part of the book is told in flashbacks from the 1970's and present time and it's Stephen King so that part is done well.
King is at his best doing a slow burn, and there’s no question that he knows how to do suspense and a sense of dread in his usual kind of stories, However, he just has no natural feel for making that work in crime fiction.For example, this plot is structured around two characters, Morris and Pete, and the readers know their whole story and can see where the trains are going to collide.
FANTASTIC!!!!!
A STRONG FIVE STARS!!!!!It took me 2 years to return to this series.
I was lukewarm about “Mr. Mercedes”.....not bad but not FANTASTIC.....
But....I kept wanting to return to this series after hearing little bits and pieces of ‘positive’ — STRONGER THAN POSITIVE — comments about book #2 and book #3.
I thought this was a TERRIFIC Stephen King ‘mystery’.....not a die hard thriller - not paranormal- ( a little gore)- but mostly WONDERFUL CREATIVE STORYTELLING.....( totally interesting: ABOUT WRITING)....etc.
Thrilling ride ....loved meeting all the new characters and the struggles in their lives....but it was the dialogue itself between characters I loved the most.
It's Stephen King. Read it.
Or, as Stephen King puts it in his latest novel, Finders Keepers: "Deep below that rational part is an underground ocean … where strange creatures swim."But for much of its history, the mystery genre has looked down its nose at what it perceives to be the poor, mad relatives obsessed with ghosts and ghouls, even though Edgar Allan Poe, the creator of the first series detective in English, wrote both horror and mystery stories; one of the earliest novels of detection, Wilkie Collins's The Moonstone, is steeped in fears of the paranormal; and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the creator of Sherlock Holmes, was a passionate believer in spiritualism.The truth is that the two genres have much more in common than either might like to admit, for both mystery and supernatural fiction are curious about the impact of random forces on ordered lives.
Yeah!! Fantastic book!!! Ugh, and that cliffhanger???!! Yup, I'm obsessed. "Shit don't mean shit!" Lol.
Yes, King is my favorite author, but I know his strong point is Horror, and not Crime.
The most important thing that I learned after reading this latest novel of his was that Stephen King can write anything he fucking wants.
This is an amazing novel, add that to the list of great novels King has written over the years.Bill, Holly, and Jerome are back.
The amazing trio we learned to love in Mr. Mercedes, but they're not the only stars in this novel.
This novel should be the perfect example of a page turner.I would've finished this in one sitting but I got a bit sick.
Unfortunately I do not feel the same about the villain presented to us in this book -- Morris Bellamy.
And most pathetic of all, he blames his "friend" -- future rare book proprietor -- of making him so mad that he goes out and (view spoiler)[gets blind drunk and brutally rapes a woman, a crime which lands Bellamy in prison with a life sentence rather than the home invasion and execution of the recluse author of his precious Johnny Gold.
I have had this book for a couple of months and been reading on it for a few days and finally noticed it.
Lol, I thought it was cool, the smiley, not thinking something spilled on my book!
Morris panics and hides all of the stuff away in an old trunk at the back of his family house in the woods.
Jump ahead to 2010 and you have a family living in Morris old house.
Pete's little sister, Tina gets in touch with Holly and Mr. Hodges at their place of work called Finders Keepers.
Head over heels."Petty criminal Morris Bellamy robs and murders acclaimed author John Rohnstein after feeling unsatisfied with the ending of his famous trilogy of books.
Let's just stick to fangirling over our favourites on all forms of social media.Finders Keepers is an enjoyable detour away from the main story found within Mr Mercedes.
King so perfectly depicts how it feels to fall in love with reading, and it is very easy for him to do so because he is an avid reader himself.
I love when King explores the relationship between an author and the reader.
I don’t know where to begin but I know I want your attention.My sense of deja vu in the opening scenes of Finders Keepers were strong allying my fears that the six months between reading the second in The Bill Hodges Trilogy was too long.
It is the crux of this thrilling story, which brings characters old and new, including the now retired Detective Bill Hodges.Stephen King, I love you for having no shame in dropping names throughout your novels.
Finders Keepers is no exception and I reveled in the many references to authors, books, songs and more.
His story at the beginning of Mr. Mercedes was so pitiful, but now he's like the cool old guy that the kids hang out with because he buys them beer.
2. Stephen King is stuck in the 20th century when it comes to the way people talk, especially when it comes to characters like Jerome.
I'll read the final book and see what happens, but this felt like a story that didn't need Hodges and the gang at all.
King did a nice job weaving in events from the first book, but I almost forgot this was a Bill Hodges story until he finally made an appearance.
And that is a perfect picture of King through the years--a gigantic composer, creating his own universe--and as far as this being a "redone Misery, I feel that perhaps they should be read back to back...gosh--the writer in this book is only really around in the introduction to the real story, which is so different there are other people saying it doesn't even seem like a King book (while I am happy to let him try different styles).
And Pete was such a great character(by far my favorite!), his story was so fun an uplifting to read....his love of literature and his family was so endearing.
In this case a writer named John Rothstein has retired to the seclusion of an isolated home in the country after creating a fabulous character named Jimmy Gold who appealed particularly to large numbers of young men who were trying to find their way in the world.
Bellamy has promised his illiterate confederates who wouldn't know John Rothstein from Jacqueline Susann, that the author has a large sum of money hidden in the house, but Bellamy himself is determined to find the notebooks in which Rothstein has allegedly been writing since he withdrew from public life.
And I loved it.This is the second book (a trilogy is promised) featuring retired detective Bill Hodges, though until his appearance half way through the story you’d be hard pressed to believe it.
There are, however, enough elements carried over from the previous book to provide continuity – it’s always clear that the spectre and the legacy of Mr Mercedes is present here.I always enjoy books that feature writers and here we are introduced to the fictional John Rothstein who, reminiscent of Salinger, has secreted himself away from public view for many years after achieving success.
“For readers, one of life’s most electrifying discoveries is that they are readers – not just capable of doing it…but in love with it. Hopelessly. Head over heels. The first book that does that is never forgotten, and each page seems to bring a fresh revelation, one that burns and exalts: Yes! That’s how it is! Yes! I saw that, too! And, of course, That’s what I think! That’s what I FEEL!”- Stephen King, Finders KeepersThis is a novel that celebrates great literature. No, not just great, but tra
That’s what I FEEL!”-	Stephen King, Finders KeepersThis is a novel that celebrates great literature.
Finders Keepers, the middle entry of Stephen King’s Bill Hodges Trilogy, is the vessel used to transmit this powerful and resonant theme.
King has a good enough story, I think, but it is marred by lazy plotting and poor execution.
It’s strange that it takes so long for Bill Hodges to enter his own story.
For reasons that I will not spoil, and which are frankly too convoluted and stupid to explain, Hodges and Finders Keepers is pulled into the Bellamy/Sauber saga over the missing Rothstein manuscripts.
When you read him, King makes it look so easy that you forget just how complicated and twisted Morris is.
But King so completely inhabits Bellamy that even the most convoluted justification of a depraved action seems reasonable to you...because you *are* that character while you read.
King can still sting with the best of them.
I get the feeling Brady Hartsfield isn't done with us yet.
More specifically...and I hate to say this because you know how much I like you, Bill, but...I've got a feeling Brady isn't done with *you* specifically.
[4.5 Stars]I loved this even more than the first. Completely engrossing!
Indeed, I loved it because the characters were extremely vivid and interesting and more than practically any other King novel, I felt the avalanche of events pile up beautifully.It's like Misery in that we've got obsessions gone really awry, but it goes a bit further, not limiting us to a closed bedroom, but over thirty-five years, several kinds of obsessed fans, and a Salinger-type writer who's killed for the value of his hidden writings.It's pretty awesome.
Morris isn't as bad as some of King's characters, but he's enough like us book nerds that the sympathy magic works some wonders.
:)It's a great tale and it moves really well.
FINDERS KEEPERS is the second book in the Stephen King MR.
(view spoiler)[Well, we periodically visit him in his catatonic state at the Traumatic Brain Injury Clinic along with Detective Hodges who believes there just might be more going on upstairs than you think.
(hide spoiler)]While I enjoyed this suspenseful crime-murder mystery more than MM, there are some rather slow parts about mid-way, but the "Oh No!" moments are there too with, of course, a few tie-ins to other King books as is the norm.
King fans, and I am one, may like this one better than the original as we see more of the old King Shining (!) through, whereas in Mr. Mercedes (also a fine book) King seemed to be testing the waters of crime fiction.Another element that stood out was King’s creation of Rothstein’s work and how his writing effected both Pete and the demented thief Bellamy.
...the consequences for you will be unpleasant in the extreme.Words to the wise from Morris Bellamy.
He is not a handsome man.
He didn't kill him off, he made his renegade hero into (gasp!) an ad man.
Morris has had years to ponder this indignity and now that he has been released from prison, his hands are no longer tied.
I would say I feel ill-used, but it didn't ruin the book for me.
It does whet my appetite for a real and true denouement in book three to close out the trilogy.
A good sequel to Mr. Mercedes (and a better book, in my opinion). I love when the characters are avid readers/writers (see Misery). Even when they kill their favorite author because he didn’t end a series as they wanted to.
The two plot threads of Peter Sauber and Morris Bellamy intertwine and get closer and closer, one determined old man and one young boy with his sister's education at the forefront of his mind.
Hodges is a retired police officer, he's not going to be running around catching bad guys and if he was to chase the bad guy Morris Bellamy, then you're likely to get the slowest hundred metres world record followed by heart attacks all round but it's not about that.
The story is set up perfectly, until it’s time to start playing with your nerves, squeezing the tension with quick fire chapters, ripping between Hodges, Bellamy and young Peter, taking your breath until you can't put Finders Keepers down.
I don't think Hodges, Holly or Jerome were needed for this story at all.
King seemed to be reaching to include them.Morris and Pete were terrific characters.
I'm ok with Pete's dad having been part of Mr. Mercedes legacy, but including Finders Keepers felt just a little too contrived for my tastes.
If I found out, after Harris' death, that there were another book bringing Starling back to the sublime human being he created in The Silence of the Lambs I'd be pretty hot-to-trot to get my grubby hands on it!At the same time I remember the despair I felt when I heard Colleen McCullough had died.
Hodges himself is an admirable central character, flawed not perfect, doing his best to have a fulfilling retirement.I really enjoy King's more modern work- and by that I mean written this century- and I really think he should write more series.
I mean this in a good way- some of his stories have gotten buried a bit under ALL the words!!!!!I think in the past I have been a bit of a snob about Stephen King's work- which in my mind divides neatly into BEFORE the turn of the century and after.
This man can write!Anyway- enough waffling from me- you may be able to tell that I admire King's work...this series and this book is Recommended.
At first I was a bit confused as characters I became to love from book one (view spoiler)[started appearing only almost at the middle of the book (hide spoiler)].
The pattern to let us know the killer from the very first pages is still there (and still a bit annoying, duh) and for sure, King loves (view spoiler)[peculiar moms to make special killers (hide spoiler)].
This book entwines the past with the present and lets us look at the same event from a different angle, even adding supernatural spice.Entertaining read for sure :)["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Well, this is Misery Meets Finders Keepers Meets Mr. Mercedes.
Some have expressed disappointment in believing that Stephen King just recycled the wacked-out reader/fan idea once again as in Misery.
In Misery we have the battle of wills in a different light.
The two main characters are like two sole Samurai warriors battling in a rainstorm.
In Finders Keepers we have literary minds squaring off in a confrontation that is landscaped with attempted interaction from new and from familiar past characters.
I only wish that King would have brought in Bill Hodges and his troupe much earlier.
I admit I was slightly impatient for the return of Bill Hodges, however…I realized later the delay in his return gave these other amazing characters a chance to be developed into their own and shine.
(view spoiler)[ I admit I wanted more of Brady’s character, but was very pleased with the teaser ending, which gave a hint of a sinister tone for the third story in the trilogy…that unfortunately won’t be here soon enough!
(hide spoiler)] I think this would do fine as a standalone, but I’m glad I read Mr. Mercedes first to get the full appreciation of these finely developed characters and their backgrounds.
