https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1793758.The_Constant_Nymph
It's been a while since I read this book, but I remember how much I enjoyed it!I read this book after I saw the movie version from 1943 with Charles Boyer and Joan Fontaine. The book was just as lovely and sad as the movie was and it was very well written. The story is about a young girl that has a crush on an older man who instead is more taken with her older cousin. A very good coming of age story.
This story focuses on primarily two of these children, Antonia and Tessa, (Tessa being the Constant Nymph of the title) and a young composer named Lewis Dodd whose intimate ties with the family will have far reaching effects...So this was pretty fascinating.
In some ways I couldn't help but think of the old movie "Seven Brides For Seven Brothers" when the bride arrives home only to find instead of a haven, bedlam and destruction with seven men~ her new relatives~ living like animals.
The title character is Teresa (Tessa) Sanger, daughter of bohemian musician and composer Albert Sanger, whose large family lives in the Austrian Alps.
They have frequent visitors to their small chalet, including gifted composer Lewis Dodd, with whom Tessa falls in love; since she's only fourteen, though, she has to wait until she's older.
I think I'd have enjoyed the book more if I hadn't disliked Lewis so; I think his brilliance is supposed to be sympathetic, but I just felt sorry for everyone he came in contact with.
On the whole, though, I enjoyed Kennedy's Troy Chimneys more.
Fell out of print, until Virago picked it up and made it a Modern Classic – number 121!There was an intriguing love triangle at the centre of the story, set against a colourful backdrop.Lewis Dodd was a young composer, hugely promising and already enjoying a degree of success.
And though nothing was said he knew that too, understood that it ws right, and what should and would be.Tessa was young and yet that didn’t seem wrong, because she had seen and heard so much of life in her father’s household, and because both she and Lewis tacitly recognised that their love was something still to come.
"There's no use crying about it.""No use," agreed Teresa.But the tears poured down her face, whether she would or no, until she conceived the happy idea of trying to water a primula with them.
Immediately the flood was dried, after the manner of tears when a practical use has been found for them."And it would have been interesting," said Paulina sorrowfully, "to see if it would have made any difference to the primula."Margaret Kennedy examines interpersonal dynamics with a keen eye and an acerbic wit.
1924.Full review (and other recommendations!) at Another look bookA gem of a book, truly.
Not my favorite Margaret Kennedy--The Feast and Lucy Carmichael still hold that honor, as well as the infinitely prestigious awards of #1 and #2 Bree's Best Books of All Time.
Kennedy's writing is as brilliant and poignant as ever.
I personally love the "constant nymph" title character, Teresa/Tessa, but the good news is that if her story doesn't speak the strongest to you, there are several other characters to choose from.
I especially recommend this if you like stories about precocious young people and are interested in the art/music scene of 1920s Europe.
A complex tale somewhat flawed by its at-times chaotic mix of too many characters, with some of their fates trailing off into oblivion. The crux of the story lies within a few of the extended bohemian family, and drew me in as it went to its surprising conclusion. I loved the musical angle, which is very much of its time, and can forgive the non-pc nature of the story for the same reason. I plan to explore several more of Margaret Kennedy's novels.
Now y'all know me: I love my cross-generational shit, but I can't stand romance novels.
This was way more 'romance novel' than 'cross-generational shit' -- and because the characters were all so flat and vapid, except maybe Florence who was profoundly unlikeable, it was like cotton candy for the brain.
I've never read Kennedy before, but I won't again -- the writing was engaging enough, to the point where I really enjoyed the story and general vibe (thus 3 stars), but it was also, paradoxically, seriously blah.
All the characters shouted about Lewis and Tess being madly in love, but it just never came through in their interactions.
The "nymph" of the title is one of these, Teresa (known as Tessa), a waif type who suffers from a silent passion for another, younger composer, Lewis Dodd, who loves her as well but doesn't yet realize she is his perfect mate (she's only fourteen!).When her father dies, Tessa's comfortably unkempt and eccentric world is invaded by the forces of conventionality and good breeding in the form of her cousin Florence, who comes to rescue the children and take them away to be properly educated.
This novel was huge 'n' controversial in its day. Simone de Beauvior was a fan. Tis about a musical genius who renounces the Alps and his soulmate for London and a society girl. It depicts civilisation as an estrangement from beauty. And condemns the common experience of culture as cosmestic. Frustrating ending. *remembrance gah*Who wants to abscond to the Alps with me?http://image58.webshots.com/158/9/80/...*baits*
This should just be called 'Sanger's Circus.'Or something like that.
Not The Constant Nymph.The "bohemian", charmingly eccentric family is the heart of the book, the center of the story.
Known as Sanger's Circus.
Title right there.
And that great beginning to the book lasts only 80 pages.
But it is still a very, very good novel.
The title is terrible.
I think it's supposed to mean something like The Eternal Virgin.
Hardly seems like the real point of the book.
And The Constant Nymph was super popular in the 1920s.
That early, "bohemian," part is just so good.
If I'd read this as a teenager I think I'd have a different view of it.I couldn't really get past that Tess was 14/15 and Lewis twice her age. I couldn't understand why no-one in the book ever said it was wrong of Lewis to encourage Tess. There was a scene where she acted as hostess for him in lieu of his wife and everyone thought it natural for them to be together, how suited they were.That said, the book was well written, but of its time, a bit old fashioned.
one of the best books i ever read. It leaves you with a dreamy, creative, slightly sad aftertase.
I liked this book until the end. The end was melodramatic and contrived. I won't tell you what happens, but you will probably be able to guess as there is foreshadowing. Maybe the whole book was unrealistic, but I was willing to go along until those final few chapters. I'm honestly grumpy about this, so I can't bring myself to write any more.
This book appears to have been lost to the general public for many decades, but when it was first published it was incredibly well received by critics, other authors, and the public.
(Among the authors who wrote to praise Kennedy were Thomas Hardy and JM Barrie, and Noel Coward and then John Gielgud starred in the later stage adaptations.) It appears to be a very modern novel and addresses issues that still preoccupy us today – even more so – as well as being anti-Semitic, reflecting the prevailing attitudes of the period in which it was written.
I enjoyed this. Her writing style was very nice, descriptive but not flowery. And the story was a good one. Based on the description on the back, I was a little concerned that it would be "pedophilia-y" (because the main character starts as a 12 year old) but it's not creepy at all. I thought Kennedy did a wonderful job developing her characters. The story is a little twisty and odd and there were many oppotunities for the characters' actions to feel false, but they never did.
The Constant Nymph was Margaret Kennedy’s second novel, and probably her most successful and well known. I absolutely loved it, at once fully involving myself with the characters, as I became immersed in the world of ‘Sanger’s Circus’. I think Margaret Kennedy might be an author whose work I will have to read much more of.read full review: http://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/1...
This novel was a huge hit when it was published and gave way to many film adaptations. It appears old-fashioned and somehow dated now, yet it remains charming, maybe actually because it is old-fashioned, and its strange romanticism remains intriguing.
The novel is fascinating - the characters are distinctive - but you may well very much dislike the boorish protagonist - and the 14 year old innocent who can't bear to be without him.
The wife is presented as just as charming, smart, reasonable, tolerant, attractive as a human being can be - yet she's not a true artist (just helps her husband in every way) and so is simply incapable of truly entering this communion of artistic bohemian spirits.It's well-written - the characters memorable - well worth reading, regardless of what you think of the morality of the situation or the charmlessness of the protagonist.
Fourteen year old Tessa Sanger is the daughter of a brilliant Bohemian composer, Albert Sanger, who with his huge unconventional family of children from two different wives and mistresses and hangers-on lives on a rambling chalet high in the Austrian Alps.
It just so happens that Tessa is hopelessly in love with a composer Lewis Dodd, a family friend.
Eventually they marry and put the kids in English boarding schools although they never went to school before and do not want to start now.
Over a short period of time, the marriage starts to crumble.
Florence was trying too hard to launch Lewis into London society and arrange concerts for him.
I read this a while ago and did not enjoy it very much, although it was useful to have as a reference in reading other interwar novels as it was such a touchstone of the times. As I recall, the titular character is a 1920s version of the Manic Pixie Dream-Girl, and the novel really does not hold up on a variety of fronts.
When Lewis gets fed up with Florence and decides that he would rather run away with Tessa, she initially refuses quite firmly and practically, and not only makes sure that she isn't subsequently left alone with him, but when he brings up the subject in front of her younger brother Sebastian whom she has brought along as chaperone, they have the following delightfully frank and unromantic conversation:"I don't understand what you're after," said Sebastian.
She'll be your...""Hold your tongue, Sebastian.[...]""But what will she be?"Lewis threw a glance of rather shamefaced appeal at Tessa, who suggested that, as she was not coming, it was of no consequence."Well, I don't approve at all," said the boy firmly.
2,5 stars. My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/06/20...
Cousin Florence, who at 28 has never had a serious love affair, promptly falls in love with Lewis, a disciple of Sanger's who is very close to some of his children.
Interestingly, the novel contrasts 2 love-stories between a grown-up man and a teenager: Lewis has strong feelings about Sanger's daughter Teresa, while Jacob Birnbaum, a rich man who also worships Sanger, is madly in love with her sister Antonia.
Teresa's fate, on the other hand, is a tragic one, because once Lewis falls under the spell of Florence and marries her, things are over for her.
Finally, this was my chance and what a beautiful Virago edition, bottle green, with a haunting "modern dress" picture of Ophelia on the front.I understand now why my grandmother chose to buy and read this novel, as she was a big classical music and opera buff, just like the characters in this story, composers, musicians and devoted hangers-on -often, the latter were the ones who organized and sponsored concerts, but the bohemian, artistic types never failed to despise them, believing themselves superior and often lacking basic social skills.

Wow - this is one of the best books I have ever read. Brilliant characterisation. This world is brought vividly to life, and the clash between the civilised Florence and the wild Sangers is really well described. I first read this thirty years ago, just re-read it, and it's as good as ever. Note that Kennedy doesn't sentimentalise the Sangers, or Lewis. She understands their selfishness, their insularity, and even their cruelty, while still portraying them as sympathetic characters, perhaps as enslaved to their strange natures as anyone else.Words fail me. What an outstanding book.
I've read a lot of books about this period and written in this period and I was excited to read this, but I didn't love it.
I found a lot of the characters to be irritating, and not in a so irritating you want to keep reading to see them to get their comeuppance kind of way, just in a blah this lot annoy me way.I'd rather read one of the Nancy Mitford novels again.
And I've loved some of the Virago classics and the Persephone ones from the same period.
A shame this one didn't grab me.Still, I'm glad I read it, and I can see why it was influential, it just wasn't for me.
bastante bosta:-*-*-*-*Entrada en el diario 1 de Faedyl desde City Bell, Buenos Aires Province Argentina en viernes, 14 de agosto de 20095 de 10Una historia basada en personajes muy afectados, demasiado al extremo. Entretiene pero puede entreverse el final. Algunos giros de la historia empero son interesantes, y esta bien descripto, lo que más me ha gustado es el desarrollo de los escenarios.
My favourite book when I was younger. While I've read others I like better since, it still packs an emotional wallop. Love really is blind in this case; while a fifteen year old eloping with her dad's best friend sounds like the stuff of tabloid headlines, Kennedy turns it into a sensitive, heartbreaking story. I still don't like Florence, aka the wife, any better, but I understand her motives now I'm her age.
