https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25337939-affinity
Yup.Long story short, the ending is a bit of a mindfuck if you’re like me and start thinking after you finish a book, as opposed to during.A handful of other reviews claim that they didn’t care for the character of Margaret Prior, or that they were angry because she was impressionable, weak, and lacked a backbone.
I, on the other hand, am utterly neurotic, so Margaret and I got along like two people at an A.A. meeting.
But this isn’t Nicholas Sparks — this is a Victorian lesbian dark paranormal anguish-filled melodrama, and it wants you to be sad.All in all, this book was fantastic.
Following a failed suicide attempt, a young "lady visitor" named Margaret Prior develops a relationship with an inmate named Selina Dawes in a Victorian women's prison, and both their lives are forever changed by their acquaintance.Narrated in alternating chapters by the two very different women, this dark, moody story incites fear, melancholy, and terrible pity.
Their subtly blooming attraction is heightened by the misery of the contrast with Selina's living conditions at Millbank Prison (an actual London prison, by the way), and it's a certainty that in Margaret's desire to save Selina, she is also desperate to save herself.And what will your sister do if her husband should die, and she should take another?
As seen on The ReadventurerIt is almost impossible to say anything about the plot of Affinity without spoiling something, so I'll refrain from recapping.
This sense of emptiness and despair I am left with is so overwhelming right now, that it leads me to believe I might have liked Affinity even more than Fingersmith.
As a woman of the now I have never experienced such a feeling of being completely powerless first hand, but Sarah Waters made me feel all of this for her Victorian heroines.
But Waters accomplishes it marvelously.
Sarah Waters, at this stage, must be the accepted queen of Victorian Gothic lesbian melodrama; not, I imagine, that there is much competition for this title, but I think it's a deserved one nonetheless.In many ways, the plot of Affinity is like that of the other work of Waters' that I have read, Fingersmith.
Crime and Victorian punishment, repression and sexuality and psychology, all feature heavily in both books.
It's rare anymore that a book has that effect on me, so I do think that this is one that I will be re-reading and savouring.
Even something simple like the protagonist Miss Prior's afternoon in The Spiritualists' Reading Room instantly conceived for me a dim, smoky, velvet lined library where she learns the secrets of her true love/affinity's case.
I honestly do not typically care for the paranormal stories, but under the guidance of Waters, a pretty great read.
With the unexpected ending, I admit I did not like it, but then again, I guess it was good, in that way only great writers can have me appreciating an otherwise unacceptable 180.
Oh, Sarah Waters, how I love thee.
Gah! I can't do this. It's so slow and just so boring...So DNF from me :(
She's drawn towards one particular prisoner, Selina Dawes, a spiritualist and a psychic medium, who has been imprisoned for assaulting one of her clients.When you love an author a lot, you tend to develop gigantic expectations from all of that author's books, which is probably unfair.
However, this feeling did not last long as the book soon picked up and I was hooked!Affinity is told from both Selina's and Margaret's perspectives.
To say I am impressed is an understatement.Like every other Sarah Waters' books, Affinity will remain with me for a long time to come.
Let's not forget the spirits that we can expect in a gothic novel - certainly Sarah Waters has not.To Millbank.
But it may be the next man she takes, or it may be neither.And I looked only at her, heard her voice only; and when I spoke at last, it was to ask her this: ‘How will a person know, Selina, when the soul that has the affinity with hers is near it?’I have read just one other by Sarah Waters - Fingersmith.
The characters are what they are, the story line and characterizations make no attempt to convince the reader that life is unfair because of sexual orientation.
I thought this book was one I haven't read before (I still think so) but at the end..
I think I read this before." Chalk it up to the creepy experiences that Margaret Prior experiences through out the book.
My thoughts/reactions:-The Victorian prison system was abysmal for inmates.
There is a repeat inmate in the book so I'm not sure how well it works.
-For a time period known for it's rigidity and devotion to public propriety; the Victorians were a dramatic emotional lot.
- This is definitely a thinking sort of a read.
In fact, having read most of the book at night now that the darkness has gripped us up here in the North, made Affinity the perfect read in the run up to Halloween.Affinity, as the title suggests, explores the relationship between different people, focusing mostly on upper-middle-class Margaret Prior, who volunteers to become a lady visitor in a London prison, and Selina Dawes, a notorius medium who has been sent down after being involved in a woman's death.
However, affinity applies to other relationships in the book and each of them serves to paint a picture of the main character, Margaret Prior, and her struggle with life in London society during the 1870s.
However, I thought this book might present the spiritual medium's world in a light that's a little more pretty and entertaining.
This distrust grows and grows until the climax of the book where it tops off as disdain, ending with me disgusted with the main character a delicate woman by the name of Margaret.Secondly, I disapprove of the frailty of women back before the turn of the century.
This book is entirely devoted to a main character who can't deal with situations with a level head or a rational outlook.
La ambientación genial, como en todas sus novelas, con ese aire victoriano, en las que es muy fácil sumergirse en los escenarios que está describiendo.
Pero algo me ha flojeado, no sé si los personajes o bien el desarrollo de la trama la cual he encontrado demasiado lenta.
Escrita a modo de diario de los dos personajes principales: Selina que nos relata su vida antes de la cárcel y Margaret que es la narradora principal ya que nos relata el tiempo actual.
Recomiendo antes leer otros de esta escritora como El Ocupante y Falsa Identidad.
‘Afinidad’, de la galesa Sarah Waters, está ambientada en el siglo XIX victoriano, y explora el oscuro y opresivo mundo de una cárcel de mujeres, a la vez que nos muestra cómo era el ambiente del espiritismo en aquella época.
Será en este duro ambiente donde Margaret conocerá a la misteriosa Selina, una joven médium.La prosa de Sarah Waters es refinada y elegante, y capta perfectamente el ambiente y circunstancias de la época.
Waters posee una gran capacidad para plasmar para ramificar las tramas y mantener el suspense.
Todo ello, convierte a ‘Afinidad’ en una buena novela con gusto gótico y ambiente folletinesco.
A book for all Seasons: picked strictly for the cover
Because it does, and it has, for at least two days even after finishing the book.Affinity is the tale Margaret, a young lady living in nineteenth-century London.
It's way shorter than the other book I have read by Sarah Waters, Fingersmith, but it doesn't contain as many plot twists as that one does.
Still, after a while I started to wish for the end, because about ninety percent of this novel is build-up.
I recommend this book if you really feel like reading something that will make you shiver.
During 80% of the book it felt more like a 3 stars, since I really was enjoying the setting, the well built atmosphere in Millbank prision, etc, but I didn't really connect with the characters.
I never liked Selina, and although I felt for Margaret and her difficulties to fit in structured Victorian London, I felt uncomfortable with her continuous nervousness.
But the twist at the end upgraded it to 4 stars.
It wasn't really a surprise for me, since I saw it coming, but the ending just made it a better story.
(view spoiler)[I realized Selina was a liar, and I suspected very early Vigers was Ruth.
Sigue siendo Sarah Waters, pero de los tres que he leído, es el que menos me ha convencido. Lento no, lo siguiente y final predecible desde la mitad de libro (si anteriormente has leído a Waters). Además, la trama me recordó muchísimo a Falsa Identidad. Anyway, la Waters es la Waters y se le perdonan los deslices que haga falta.
Her diary makes up the majority of the narrative, intercut with extracts from Selina's earlier journal recounting the events that led to her imprisonment.I have read two of Waters' other novels: Fingersmith and The Little Stranger.
However, Affinity has much more in common with Fingersmith: two female protagonists who take turns narrating the story, and a parade of unpleasant minor characters; a burgeoning lesbian romance, full of suppressed emotion and dull erotic charge; a heavy atmosphere of doom and dread; a series of dreary, depressing settings, from Millbank's cells to the foggy streets of London and Margaret's stifling home life with her unsympathetic mother.
Those descriptions don't do the books justice however, they are much more complex and multilayered than I have made them sound.Affinity follows the story of Margaret Prior, a 'lady visitor' to a Victorian women's prison and her growing friendship / relationship with an inmate, Selina Dawes, accused of violence and spiritualism.
The author gradually draws the reader into the other layers in this story, and we see the resemblance between the two women's lives, the incarceration of both, one in prison and the other in her family.
I've felt many different ways about Sarah Waters novels.
The first I read - Tipping the Velvet - I loved.
- I wasn't disappointed.I didn't love it as much as Tipping the Velvet but I still really enjoyed this.
Waters is a demon for a twist and although I had half worked it out - the gist but not all the details - I still found it enjoyable.
The thing about Affinity is that, for me at least, part of the problem is that you (me) WANT it to be true.
I do so love a twist.
Les cuento que Sarah Waters inventó la novela de fantasmas, la novela de misterio, el estilo indirecto y la ficción en general.
En esta historia cargada de ambigüedades y de un sublime erotismo de alto voltaje, Sarah Waters presenta a una espiritista encarcelada por un crimen que asegura que no cometió y una visitadora social que intenta escapar de la depresión causada por la muerte de su padre, protagonistas cuya afinidad hará converger sus caminos en medio de secretos, revelaciones y apariciones.
Si la ambientación en el apogeo de los años victorianos en Londres no pareciera a ratos un boceto , diría que esta es una obra perfecta.
At least by this stage, the worst prisoners in England were sent to another prison in London, but this was still not a nice place to end up at all.Inside Millbank, Margaret meets a prisoner called Selina, who is a spiritualist.
We all know how fascinated the Victorians were with the occult, spirits, magic and the like, so it isn't a surprise that Margaret is fascinated with Selina and her abilities, and ends up being drawn in deeper and deeper.Right, so, we can all guess by now that I am a skeptic.
I thought it may have been her first book, but looks like it was the second.
This second book by Waters takes place again in 19-century England much like her first book, Tipping the Velvet.
This story takes place not on the stage and in the bedrooms of ladies, but primarily in a women's prison.
Margaret begins researching Selina and fills her journal with her findings.Unfortunately this story was not as engrossing as Tipping the Velvet.
But what this book lacks that the first was so good at was creating vivid, sympathetic characters.
At no time did I really feel like I knew Margaret or Selina which is unfortunate as they both had a lot of potential.
Set in 1870's London this tells the story of Margaret who is a lady trying to recover from a suicide
But now I come to review the book and it is very definitely a 5 star read for me.This darkly gothic tale takes part in Victorian London and Waters' writing really paints a vivid and stark portrait of what it must have been like living there, and in particular what life was like in a women's prison.
When I started reading the first chapter, I thought I wasn't going to like the book.
But then with chapter two, the writing style and POV was switched to that of Margaret, a Lady Visitor who attends the prison which Selina is incarcerated.
From the book: “How deep, how black, how thick the water seems to-night! How soft it’s surface seems to lie. How chill it’s depths must be.”Exactly.
I really loved the storyline and the two main characters.
I got the feeling that is was like Orange Is The New Black, but even more darker and more about mental illness and crazier things.
There were also some really good twists.
The reasons why I can't give this book 5 stars is because I was confused something (especially in the beginning) and I wasn't hooked that much as I was with Tipping The Velvet.
It is also not that romantic (ahum) as Tipping The Velvet so that was a twist!
I was expecting that there would be more romance, but the storyline is, like I already said, still very good.
An incredible Gothic story. Very tense and perfect ending!
The ending made this for me ((view spoiler)[you are cruel, Sarah Waters, so cruel....I love it!
(hide spoiler)]), but that's not enough for me to change my opinion on the rest of the book; this is by far the weakest novel I've read from Sarah Waters so far.
Personally, I've never really been that interested in this area as a theme, and that's perhaps the biggest reason for my ambivalence throughout.
In short, this is by no means a bad book, but it feels somewhat like a prototype to the later novels Waters goes on to write, that I really, truly love.
A medium and a wealthy heiress trapped by her family meet in Millbank prison in Victorian England. Good works by a social reformer or forbidden love? YOU DECIDE.A lovely plot twist in this that suffers against FINGERSMITH, but then most things would. What I didn't care for here were long stretches of slow pacing that was loose and floppy. The author tightens up the tension in later books even through the slow pacing, so it sticks out here.
