https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34760.All_I_Really_Need_to_Know_I_Learned_in_Kindergarten
It also taught me a lesson in the money making potential of publishing because I happened to work for Ballantine at the time and was constantly issuing purchase orders for reprints of huge quantities of this little paperback.
I recall that it only cost about a quarter per book to produce and we were charging $6 or $7 for it, quite a nice profit for the little goldmine that could.
The author visited our office one day and acted exactly the way you would have expected him to, like the wise, charming grandpa you never actually had.
It’s true!We learn all the really IMPORTANT stuff when we’re little kids!
We were each given a Think & Do Book, and - wonder of wonders - our first Dick & Jane Reader.
We started with Dick & Jane.
I think I was the LAST one in that snobbish group of 5-year-olds to learn to spell.
I was always a late bloomer...But did you know Dick & Jane books are also FULL of civics lessons?
That’s where us little Boomers learned our citizenship ABC’s!
In those first years we learned EVERYTHING WE NEEDED TO KNOW.

Essentially the GREATEST book I've ever read. I loved the humor, but it also expressed hidden truths that integrate themselves into our day to day lives in a quirky sort of way. I thoroughly enjoyed the insight that you received through out the entirety of the book. Made me think about things...lots of things. Mr. Fulghum reminds me a lot of, well, ME. I thought it was stunning.
The only people who learned all they needed to know in kindergarten are the people who died when they were six. This stupid book is as facile as its title.
Tuhle knížku jsem četl ve cca dvaceti a bylo to jako zjevení. Četli ji i moji nejbližší přátelé a všichni jsme z ní byli nadšení. Mladický optimismus a dychtivost. Svět nebyl jednoduché místo k životu, ale byl krásný.Po dalších dvaceti letech už se na spoustu věcí dívám jinak, ale dodnes (a asi i do konce života) si budu pamatovat dvě věci:* Historku o indiánovi, co tancoval se židlí: A indián řekl: "Tak na co čekáte? Budeme tancovat."* A pak, asi nejsilnější knižní moto vůbec: A věřím, že láska je silnější než smrt.
I find it funny that so many people who reviewed this book made comments about the title.
I know I have read hundreds of books with odd titles, but I did not base my review on it.This book was easy to read - I read it in one rainy afternoon.
I did not pick this book up to find the answers of life - I read it because it seemed light and fun - which it was.I feel the book is very cool - hundreds of times I have thought random, misc.
This author's credo impressed Washington's Senator Dan Evans (he was in the audience when Mr. Fulghum, a minister, shared it in a primary school celebration) and eventually was read into the Congressional Record.
But he didn't go on about kindergarten stuff but instead wrote about collected favorite observations of his vision of the wonder of everyday life; uncommon thoughts on common things.
Few of my favorites were: one about the raccoons, the story of Menon and the elderly Sikh, one he called "The Mystery of Twenty-Fifth Avenue, Northeast", Hong Duc's trick or treating at Christmas, and of course the one about Mother Theresa.I'm giving it a 5 for ease of read, fun content, creativity, and big meanings.
“These are the things I learned (in Kindergarten):1.
Live a balanced life - learn some and drink some and draw some and paint some and sing and dance and play and work everyday some.12.
When you go out into the world, watch out for traffic, hold hands, and stick together.14.
Remember the little seed in the Stryrofoam cup: The roots go down and the plant goes up and nobody really knows how or why, but we are all like that.15.
And then remember the Dick-and-Jane books and the first word you learned - the biggest word of all - LOOK
So, I don't understand why this is a New York Times best-seller? To each his own, then. But to me, this book felt like a venue for the author to explain away his own mulling. The title is "All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten";(a) and it sounds like an excuse to be a bit too childish and simplistic(b) but hardly any of the book is about things he really learned in Kindergarten.I don't know. I'm just really confused, annoyed, and disappointed.
Tahle knížka se mi měla dostat do ruky před těmi dvaceti lety, kdy tady poprvé vyšla. Vzpomínám, že mě ty knížky tenkrát fascinovaly - nejvíc Už hořela, když jsem si do ní lehal. Ty názvy podněcovaly moji fantazii, ale nikdy jsem je neotevřela, četla jsem kromě pubertální literatury výhradně věci z rodičovské knihovny. Určitě ale nelituju, bylo to příjemné čtení a.moc milý dárek a tuším, že to nebyl poslední můj Fulghum, i když plnokrevným fanouškem se asi nestanu. Druhá půlka bavila víc. Slušné 3,5 * a díky dobré knižní vile Puffin :)
"Anything worth doing is worth doing well. Anything not worth doing is worth not doing well."
I’d rather read a book called Everything I know I learned During a 3 Week Opium Bender with a Lady-Boy in a Bangkok Brothel but what I’d really rather read is a book by an author who doesn’t have the prose style of Ned Flanders.
Some of them are so stupid that even Ned would probably take a swing at him for saying.
#9 on his list is “Flush.” I would rather hang out with someone who has never flushed a day in her life than with anyone who found this book worth reading (I think I read bits of it years ago but I was looking at the reviews here today while researching something else).
As suggested by the title, the lessons children can or should be getting in kindergarten make a great focus for adult living. Imagine how precepts like playing fair and not taking things that don't belong to you could resonate beyond childhood into sphere of politics and moral behavior. The rule of "cleaning up your own mess" or "putting things back where you found them" make a good foundation for clean ecological living. My favorite is "When you go out, watch out for traffic, hold hands, and stick together".
Funny and witty. I like the short anecdotes that support those learnings in kindergarten. I still remember one: "When crossing the street, hold each other hands" This is very true especially in the crazy streets of Manila.
All I Really Need to Know I Learned in KindergartenRobert FulghumCopyright 2003Notes: Vi: Storyteller’s License: This license gives me permission to use my imagination in rearranging my experience to improve a story…As it stands, the book seems like a final form.Storyteller’s Creed is an example I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledgeThat myth is more potent than historyThat dreams are more powerful than factsThat hope always triumphs over experienceThat laughter is the only cure f
In truth, he is an insurance agent.209: Where he Snow GoesSnow is God’s way of telling people to slow down and rest and stay in bed for a day.211: Hair213: I recall an old Sufi story of a good man who was granted one wish by God. The man said he would like to go about doing good without knowing about it.
I had bought gag gifts, much like my family does for Hannukah, because I genuinely believed that was what one did for Christmas, too.
I read the book Christmas night, unable to sleep.
There have been other Christmases, and other Gummy Lumps, and other Fulghum's on our shelf (I believe my boyfriend is currently reading "Uh-Oh"), but this remains the most beloved.
It is the book that made me realize that some people - perfectly respectable, successful people - believed in and appreciated teachers.
A lovely feel-good quick-read essay book that inspires you and often makes you laugh and smile while teaching a lot about everyday stuff. The book stirs your soul with Fulghum narrating his day to day experiences in a casual & jovial manner.
There are lot of free things in life, don’t grab all, pick only what is needed, somebody else might need it urgently what is lying with you but not important at the moment.
It is easy to say “You are wrong”Book: “All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten” is written by Robert Fulghum in 1986, it is 240 pages book having interesting compilation of life-lessons explained with short stories & illustrations.
Remember the little seed in the styrofoam cup: The roots go down and the plant goes up and nobody really knows how or why, but we are all like that – ponder, think, imagine and explain to yourself…17.
Velmi milé čtení, které mnohdy zahřeje u srdce a dojme, mnohdy přiměje k úsměvu a hlavně k zamyšlení. Jedna krátká úvaha nebo příběh vám dá podnět k přemýšlení, k jinému pohledu na spoustu věcí. A kromě toho mám neskutečně ráda přístup k víře a Bohu právě takový, jako má Fulghum sám. Tak neskutečně milý, upřímný a hlavně tak přirozený, že i nevěřícímu připadá v každém jednom příběhu víra tak jasná a prostá, že by to bez ní ani nešlo. Myslím, že je to knížka, ke které se ještě mnohokrát vrátím a nad kterou se ještě mnohokrát zamyslím.
I'm sure the stories are interesting to HIM - but I found them pretty boring and skimmed over a lot of the anecdotes.His "Kindergarten Credo" is as follows:Share everything.Play fair.Don't hit people.Put things back where you found them.Clean up your own mess.Don't take things that aren't yours.Say you're sorry when you hurt somebody.Wash your hands before you eat.Flush.Warm cookies and cold milk are good for you.Live a balanced life - learn some and think some and draw and paint and sing and dance and play and work every day some.Take a nap every afternoon.When you go out into the world, watch out for traffic, hold hands and stick together.Goldfish and hamsters and mice and plants - they all die.
I remember one part where he talked about his carefree acceptance of natures impression on his yard by explaining how silly his neighbor was to rake his leaves and mow the lawn.
I didn't do a ton of gardening at the time (nor do I now) but I remember thinking there might be reasons he rakes his lawn, and now I'm older and I find the small amount of yard work I do to be very theraputic and enlightening in it's little revelations, things I wouldn't feel if I sat in my house with my typewriter watching my yard become slowely burried in whatever Mother Nature drops off.
It was meant to be a happy book that helps you remember that it is and can be a good world out there.
Which is needed after Neal Shusterman - a great author but, perhaps too good.
See Unwind review - this book was used as an antidote.I did learn that sometimes it is the simple things that make life good.
And he is right it is in kindergarten that we do learn the most important lessons of how to be a decent human being.Besides look at his picture.
What in the world is so wrong with that???PS His later books do get better.
It is amazing to know how our everyday life may be improved if we but apply things we already learned as a child.
Life can be more meaningful, indeed, if we just stop worrying a lot and enjoy the simple things it offers.
I cannot count how many times I’ve laughed and grieved with this book; it was liberating in a way.
I have named favorites, too, yet I know this is just the beginning of our fruitful relationship and I’ll be naming more favorites in the future.I highly recommend this book – short, simple and very RICH.
This is more of a 3 1/2 stars book; I have never wanted to read this book, but I bought it at a yard sale for a nickel and this morning I wanted something light that I could read while sitting in the doctor's office for.
I got the whole thing read, and frankly, it was a good book.
Not at all the drivel I expected, based on the uproar made about this book by absolutely vapid people.I'm a big fan of "the little things" and silver linings.
He manages to shape mundane events into extraordinary tales, and that is the sort of thing that I really enjoy.
All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten was Fulghum's first collection of essays.
I liked his style then, and still do.
Fulghum does a nice job of exploring simple things from a profound and thoughtful perspective to gently guide the reader to wisdom.
His writing style is simple and direct.
I found myself reading with a pencil in hand, underlying passages and phrases I wanted to remember, and writing notes about my thoughts on his thoughts in the margins.
It was a delightful read!
All I really need to know I learned in kindergarten.
Wisdom was not at the top of the graduate-school mountain.1.
Share everything 2.
Play fair 3.
Don't hit people 4.
Put things back where you found them 5.
Clean up your own mess6.
Don't take things that aren't yours 7.
Say you're sorry when you hurt somebody 8.
Wash your hands before you eat 9.
Flush ....10.Warm cookies, cold milk are good for you 11.Live a balanced life- learn some, think some, draw,paint,sing,dance, play,work everyday some12.
When you go out into the world, watch out for traffic, hold hands and stick together.
I don't think this book was written for the purpose of impressing anyone. Sometimes you need it, sometimes you don't. Sometimes I think it's full of shit, sometimes I am amazed at how simple and true everything is.Sometimes I just need to take it down from the bookshelf, browse a few pages, and be reminded of the very simple things: - Put things back where you found them.- Say you're sorry when you hurt somebody.- Flush.- When you go out into the world, watch out for traffic, hold hands, and stick together.
A great, short read that gives you much to think about and much to be thankful for. It is easy to relate to the stories of Fulghum, he takes the reader from mundane and ordinary to profound yet simple. Never have I desired so strongly to go and purchase a box of 64 Crayola crayons with a sharpener built right in!
I love how he viewed his life and the life of people around him.
His uncommon thoughts to common things made me want to have a friend like him.
I want to memorize his wonderful list of things he learned (in Kindergarten): 1.
Remember the little seed in the Stryrofoam cup: The roots go down and the plant goes up and nobody really knows how or why, but we are all like that.15.
And then remember the Dick-and-Jane books and the first workd you learned - the biggest word of all - LOOK.
