https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816223.The_Borrowers_Aloft
Зустріч із героями книги, яка припала до душі, — те ж саме, що й зустріч зі старими друзями.
От тільки цього разу родину крихітних чоловічків спіткала халепа.
Здавалося б, усе нарешті у їхному житті налагодилося, з’явився справжній затишний дім і можливості для роздобутку, аж тут їх...
викрали підступні люди.Однак засмучуватися не варто: звісно, роздобудькам вдалося втекти з горища, де їх тримали у полоні.
А для цього довелося неабияк постаратися, зібрати всю винахідливість і змайструвати...
повітряну кулю.
Якщо врахувати, що політ на повітряній кулі — одна з моїх, поки що нездійснених, мрій, то й задоволення від читання було присмачене уявним власним польотом понад вкритими весняною зеленню пагорбами та синьою-синьою рікою...Так-так, часом падаю в дитинство, і це — чудове відчуття)))
I did like the touch of romance between Spiller and Arriety -- I hope the final book doesn't take that away -- and I do like the little details of the world Mr Pott and Miss Menzies create.I'm sad that there's no sign of Mrs May or Kate anymore: they've vanished out of it, even though as far as I'm concerned they were as important to the story as the Borrowers, in their way.
It could still have worked, with the right narrator to tell the story, but this book isn't framed that way.
I read the Borrowers series once or twice as a kid, but they never caught on with me in the same way as other books. But now, on rereading, I find them completely charming: beautifully imagined, nicely framed (except for Afloat, which I don't like as much), and actually pretty philosophical. Of course, the Krushes' illustrations are delightful, as always. I'm so glad I rediscovered these books!
This is the fourth book in "The Borrowers" series, the children's story that supposes that little people who live under the floor take all the things that are missing.
As the cage is prepared, the Borrowers are locked away in an impossibly high attic.
I loved the twists and turns in this tale and the introduction of yet another "bad intention" human trying to profit from the little folks.
The ingenious of the Borrowers is truly imaginative in this book as they explore the attic to maximize their captivity and try and plan their escape.
Another solid entry in the saga. I found this and its immediate predecessor to be much stronger, much more engaging than the first two. I love the ingenuity the borrowers show, I adore that Pod listens to Arrietty with respect and admiration, and Spiller is almost (dare I say it?) sweet. Homily is a pain, but in a realistic way.
I've always liked "hidden" sequels, ones that most people don't read and/or know existed (like those to Pollyanna. Norton doesn't disappoint Borrowers fans with this one, which is more about their lives than their borrowing.
This book is a funny life-changing book that keeps you from putting it down. I learned that there are people under our noses who use the stuff we lose when they find it.
Human nature is predictably disappointing that way.) These opening five chapters hint at what is going on in the life of Arrietty, Homily, and Pod, but withhold all details, giving the child reader of this book the experience of changing her perspective to that of the outside observer, encouraging them to develop their curiosity about the world and appreciate how differently others must see it.
Norton deftly allows the initial caper to happen off the page between chapters, so as not to create an artificial plot climax too early in the book, switching perspectives back to the adult world to give hints of what has happened without us actually getting to experience the scene.
They must have been well before their time because so much of the tech and inventions folks used are still around today.My favorite part of this book is Little Fordham, the model, that seems to have been made for the Borrowers.
I love tiny model villages and the descriptions of Little Fordham and all the work that Mr. Pott's and Miss Menzies have done to make this as correctly displayed as possible.
I encourage anyone with an affinity for models, trains or dollhouse sized construction to read this book.
Mary Norton is one of my favorite authors.
I wish there were more out there that would write in this manner.
The innocent days are long gone, and there are many who miss them.
The Borrowers speak of a simple life.
A solid family circle, filled with love.
Young Henrietti, is spunky, courageous, and inquisitive.
So many children have lost that wonder due to the electronic age.
Imagination seems to have gone out the window, along with the group games children used to play, with one another.
Very slow moving and very different from the first three in the series. I was quite disappointed that half the book doesn't even deal with the Borrowers, but instead focuses on the Borrowers being talked about. There are things that aren't quite explained and remain this way the entire book. The ending is very open ended and kind of sad. If you think that the Borrowers are going to get what they want and live happily, you're quite mistaken.
This book finds the borrowers in their new home, a miniature village. However, competitors to the miniature village discover the borrowers and have plans for them for their village. This tells what happens. As always I really enjoyed this book. It is a great continuation of the borrowers story.
Out of all the Borrowers series, I think this one was my favorite.
Loved this next installment of the Borrowers story. I just wish they didnt have to move AGAIN!
Loved this next installment of the Borrowers story. I just wish they didn´t have to move AGAIN!
Чудова серія для дітей і дорослих! Надіюся і вірю, що вона вийде і українською мовою також.
Started this on the 18th. Forgot to add it. Lol. Loved it soooo much. My favorite in the series so far. The crafting of the balloon was brilliant. I admire this author so much.
I feel like I hated this one as a small bean.
easily found as an ebook in the library - I got bogged down in reading the fourth and fifth books, often falling asleep.
3.7 stars
THE BORROWERS ALOFT Mary Norton “Where Borrowers Truly Belong” Well, we have reached the fourth and last book in Mary Norton’s delightful series about a fanciful race of tiny people called Borrowers. Plucky and ingenious in order to survive in a world of giants they were living under the floorboards of a grandfather clock (hence their last name: Clock) at Firbank Manor, until they were discovered by a boy (Seen). In successive books they fled to the open field, then to a stream, and finally tra
When the story opens the little family (Pod, Homily, Arrietty—even their names are borrowed) has taken up residence in a charming miniature village designed by kind Mr. Pott, a one-legged former Railway worker.
Enter the bad guys: those greedy, despicable Platters who live a few miles away; jealous of the lost revenue from their Riverside teas (and copied model village) this nasty couple plots so kidnap the little people—or whatever they are—in order to display them in the Spring—with proper advertising, of course!
No one knows where the Borrowers have disappeared to, but Mr. Pott and Miss Menzies easily recognize skullduggery when it occurs on their turf.
Honestly, while the story was fine, I did not enjoy this one as much as the others.
The main reason is because we did not join the borrowers until Chapter 10.
Nine chapters without the main characters?
I began reading the series for the borrowers and expect to read ‘their’ story.
I felt cheated.Once we finally got back to the borrowers, there was an excessive amount of time describing exactly how they were going to escape.
No, I didn’t enjoy this book.
It felt like a filler; apart from the kidnapping, nothing exciting really happened until the escape.I can’t say you shouldn’t read it because I haven’t finished the last book yet.
This is not The Littles!
Much more sophisticated language and themes.
Interesting mix: first half is all about their escape and goes into great detail on the mechanics of building the escape-vehicle-hot-air-balloon.
Totally well done and of interest to a particular kind of reader.
Then the last third is the family deliberating about staying in their plush new mini-home, the dream-house of the mommy Borrower.
Since humans built it (and renovated it FOR them), does that put the Borrowers in danger, or at least render them domesticated?
Do these creatures give up their very Borrower-ness by living there?
This is the fourth book out of five in the borrowers series.
However there is a simular village nearby where the owners kidnap the borrowers and lock them in an attic for the winter.I did like this book more than i did the previous two.
I did enjoy the story between the two villages and how they were trying to always better each other.
I enjoyed this too as the storyline had a bit more of the convential borrowing as described in the first book.
Overall a good story and one i think children will like.
This fourth volume in the Borrowers series differs from its predecessors in that the thrust of the novel is on the ingenious means by which borrowers manage to maintain a lifestyle using the giant size paraphernalia they find among the belongings of humans. Not until the end of the book do we really see the intricate workings of the personalities of the borrower family that have been at the core of the previous novels.Despite this difference, I feel this is a strong entry in the series; an engrossing read with a solid ending.
Always the second high point of the series for me following the first book. Obsession with hot-air balloon stories was definitely mine. I've been noticing this read-through I'm not finding the beginnings as annoying as I used to. When I was little I was like, "Hurry up and get back to the Borrowers already," but there's quite a bit of allusion and humour in those openings as well - especially the part about the Platters, which went completely over my head back then. I doubt I even knew what an undertaker was.
Another great book in the series. Mary Norton handles the series well: I don't see any repetition and each book is a wonderful work of art on its own. A lighthearted quick read that takes you back in time. It truly feels magical and the characters are developed so well! And it seems ingenious the way the author invents all these uses for common household objects. My only complaint is that the entire plot was laid out on the inside sleeve sleeves. You really must read this book from cover to cover, but maybe not the sleeves!
So far, its the best installment of the saga. I liked the way the borrowers fled from the Platters home and the story behind Little Fordham (which was mentioned in the previous book by the way). Now that I have finished this part, I think I have overrated The Borrowers Afield and The Borrowers Afloat, posssibly I even rated too much the initial Borrowers book.:)Lets see how it continues their adventures.;)
So far, it´s the best installment of the saga. I liked the way the borrowers fled from the Platter´s home and the story behind Little Fordham (which was mentioned in the previous book by the way). Now that I have finished this part, I think I have overrated The Borrowers Afield and The Borrowers Afloat, posssibly I even rated too much the initial Borrowers book.:)Let´s see how it continues their adventures.;)
Splendid! Add this to any shelf of Children's classics. The writing is superb, the story captivating and the illustrations are perfect. No talking down here -- she uses the "real words", doesn't insult kids' intelligence with baby talk and made-up words. Can't wait till my granddaughter is old enough to take the trip.
This has been my least favorite out of the series so far. Too much time is spent with the humans talking and creating plans. The borrowers are only an after thought for the first 100 pages or so. If you skip to 3/4 of the way through the book, it finally gets good and you start to care what happens to the characters. Hopefully the final book in the series is better.
Loved these continued adventures of the Clock family. This one was just as great as the others before it. I cannot wait to read the last one as well. If you've never gotten the chance to read these as a child. You're missing out. Give these books a read!
