https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176268.Dragonsbane
It covers about 3 to 4 days for most of the book, and the magic in them comes from witches.
But is this book for younger readers?
But we as readers, know the fact that she is ruing it.
Most of which came from Gareth, some nobody whom the King sent to persuade Jenny and John especially to kill the dragon in their realm.I'm being a tad unfair when I gave the book 3 stars.
Most of you readers, and you women, will like the book a lot.
But I decided to give the book 3 stars because it's not rereading material.
But once there they find that Sir John and Jenny are viewed as a huge joke by the royal court, the king might be under the sway of a beautiful witch, and the dragon could be much more than a savage beast.“Traditional fantasy,” I hear some of you saying to yourself.So why do I recommend Dragonsbane so highly?When I was a teenager, I loved the book for its escapism and adventure.
Pure sugar-coated fantasy fun!As I’ve matured (i.e. become middle aged), what brings me back is the depiction of John and Jenny.
Hambly writes adults, a rarity in the fantasy genre; in particular, Dragonsbane is a depiction of middle-aged regret, of people who because of historical circumstances and personal situations will never achieve what they dream of, and somehow Hambly writes it in a way that's not depressing and that appealed to me even as an adolescent unsympathetic to the failure to achieve. Also, the dragons are cool.Under no conditions read the sequels. In fact, let us agree that the publishing records lie and no sequels exist. We will all be happier that way.
3.5 stars, though not sure if I should round up for the subversive narrative and character-driven writing style because I feel like I should judge this book by the standards of the time period in which it was written--the 80s--and not judge it by what I normally like/prefer in high fantasy--books written much later in the 90s and beyond.Even though it's called Dragonsbane and the Dragonsbane is a knight named John Aversin, the whole story is told from the perspective of his mageborn partner, Jenny.
Few are willing to invest what Tolkien did in creating a whole world that has humans and other intelligent creatures.Hambly is more than able in this regard, giving us both a deep study of relationships and a threat to the order of the world.
She has created a layered plot and gives it time to develop and this makes for satisfying interactions of the characters.We also receive a very complete view of the choices some women must make and the consequences of those choices.
When a huge black dragon descends upon the Deep of Ylferdun, young Gareth sets out to find the Dragonsbane, the only man alive who has ever defeated a dragon.
But Sir John Aversin is not what Gareth had hoped for—he’s a scruffy academic who is less concerned about honor than he is the health of his villagers’ pigs.
And Aversin’s lady love is not what Gareth had expected either: a plain, middle-aged witch, who has borne Aversin two sons out of wedlock and is utterly unapologetic.
Swallowing his misgivings, Gareth convinces Aversin and his witch, Jenny Waynest, to travel to the King’s Court and battle the dragon.
I loved this book.
So Jenny is both happy and unhappy – loving John and her children, able to spend a fair amount of time away from them, and yet never enough to fully devote herself to her power.The sprat (after some time being extraordinarily naïve and idiotic) manages to get John and Jenny south to try to kill the dragon, and here they encounter Jenny's mirror, Zyerne who is also a female mage who is lover to the local ruler (the king).But Zyerne is beautiful where Jenny is ugly, powerful where Jenny is weak, as cruel as Jenny is kind, and as single-minded in her pursuit of power as Jenny is wavering.Consequentially, the conflict of the story ends up being between the two women, rather than Dragonsbane vs Dragon.
A very nice traditional fantasy story that deliberately throws over a handful of clichés - for instance, our heroes are middle-aged lovers, prosaically named John and Jenny, and the dragon slayer is wry and academic rather than imposing and martial.More typical is Gareth, the indignant court messenger who comes seeking a hero out of a ballad and finds a man as much involved with pig farming as lording.
Also, the beautiful yet evil witch who has enthralled the king is a predictable villain.
But I liked the characters very much - especially Jenny, who is torn between her magic and her humanity.
My first Barbara Hambly book, and it is an entertaining discovery. An epic fantasy without huge armies clashing , without an end-of-the-world-as-we-know-it threat , without bloated descriptions of dresses or foodstuff. It has instead a couple of mature and reluctant heroes, with a convincing loving relationship, it has a focus of personal introspection and painful life choices, it has a well done dragon - alien in body and mentality.the book works well as a standalone, and deserves to be considered a classic.
"Do not be a fool, Jenny Waynest. All the knowledge of the dragons, all their power, is yours, and all the years of time. You will forget the loves of the earth soon and be healed. The diamond cannot love the flower, for the flower lives only a day, then fades and dies. You are a diamond now.”“The flower dies,” Jenny said softly, “having lived. The diamond will never do either.” It’s hard for me to describe this book because I felt like much of the story was meant to be allegorical. Like one bi
He also does not expect this hero of legend to be in love with Jenny Waynest, a moderate mage and mother of John’s 2 children.
But John and Jenny are much more than meets the eye, and they agree to help Gareth defeat the dragon in exchange for goods and protection for the people of John’s hold.However, the dragon is not the enemy they originally thought.I might have appreciated this story even more if I was married with children like our 2 protagonists.Reasons why I love this book:-	Detailed and diverse characters.
Te vas a leer este libro fácil y aunque leas sobre lo de siempre (dragones, magos, caballeros con espada, gnomos, ambiente medieval) la sorpresa es que los personajes te van a sorprender.Alejados de los clichés de la Fantasía, nos encontramos con personajes “sólidos”, con motivaciones humanas (o no humanas pero factibles en el contexto).Le pongo 5 estrellas porque supera las cuatro.
Por poco, pero las supera.
(Si le hubiese dejado en 4 tampoco pasaba nada, pero tras los últimos fracasos y por comparación, se las merece)En contra tiene que la ambientación es, como ya he dicho, del montón.
Probably cheesy to some but an escapist gem. Maybe I love it because I first read it when I needed escape. Very easy to lose myself in Hambly's beautiful writing. Also, you know that musical phrase, that sunset on an empty beach, that gesture that can bring tears to your eyes? This book had many of those for me. Poignancy? Beauty? Romance in the sense of the movement, not the checkout counter paperbacks?Plenty of action, psychological metaphors, humor. Still love this tale.
Dudaba entre ponerle 5 estrellas o cuatro, pero se va a quedar con un 4’50. ¿Qué me ha fallado? El final tal vez, aunque en general la novela me ha parecido una pasada. Muy recomendable, y además esta edición es fantástica.
It is a very small cast, with only a few secondary characters in addition to Jenny, John and Gareth, but the principals are interesting, textured, and well-developed, such that it’s easy to believe these are real people.
But such is not the case in Dragonsbane: this is a mature fantasy novel (in the best sense of the word, not the “full of gore and sex” sense), with mature heroes who are heroic in a real and believable way.Speaking of heroics, this is one of those fantasy novels that takes pains to distinguish the myth from the reality; Gareth, a lover of dragon-slaying ballads, is perhaps intended as a stand-in for the typical fantasy reader, whose illusions are shattered as the story progresses.
Vencer al dragón, como ocurría con Las señoras de Mandrigyn, de la misma autora, es un libro de fantasía épica que merece mucha más atención de la que cosecharon el 90% de libros de la Dragonlance y Reinos Olvidados juntos.
La reedición de este año es una excusa perfecta para leer dragones y mazmorras más allá de Tolkien y, sobre todo, plagiadores de Tolkien.Jenny es una mujer muy cerca de los cuarenta, con un par de churumbeles, pareja del Vencedor de Dragones, instruida en las artes de la hechicería.
su pareja, el Vencedor de Dragones.¡No solo la ciencia ficción habla de nuestro mundo a través de otros mundos!¿Desea saber más?
But it won't be long before you realize that Jenny Waynest, a witch frustrated in her search for magic power (and also lovers with John, and the mother of their two children), is the sole point of view.Jenny deals with a conflict that many women face: family, or furthering her career, which in this case is the pursuit of magic.
(hide spoiler)] In the end he represents, to Jenny, all that she could be, if only she'd leave that frail, mortal family of hers behind.Even for a book of less than 350 pages, at times Dragonsbane moves slowly.
Me ha encantado. Supongo que también porque la empecé sin expectativas. Los personajes son ricos y carentes de clichés lo que da a la trama una frescura increíble, a pesar de que tiene ya 30 añazos. Me ha gustado el trato de los dragones, no haré spoilers pero a pesar de que tiene los elementos típicos, innova. Estructura, trama y giros bien trabajados.
Esta joya de la literatura fantástica, como bien dicen en la sinopsis, es la primera entrega de las Tierras de Invierno, y solo con el primer libro es posible hacerse una idea de la habilidad magistral de la autora.
La prosa es rica, tan pulida que podría dejar ciego a cualquiera, compleja sin llegar a ser ininteligible, la descripciones son largas y muy visuales.
Porque, si hay algo que caracteriza a esta historia es la infinidad de pequeños matices que le dan vida a todo, desde los personajes al mundo que los rodea.
Lord John Aversin is known as "Dragonsbane", for the dragon he killed long ago; when another dragon threatens the kingdom, Lord Gareth goes north to the Winterlands to find John and ask him for help.
Their encounter with the dragon, Morkeleb the Black, is only the start of the challenges they will face, from a sorceress who wants to take over the kingdom, to Jenny's increasing conflict between her magic and her family.
And it has a really interesting dragon, too.I have read the sequels, and I rather wish I hadn't.
En el libro Vencer al dragón (publicación original: Dragonsbane, 1985), un joven llamado Gareth busca a lord Aversin, el legendario Vencedor de dragones, y encuentra primero a una amiga suya muy cercana, Jenny, una maga que lleva a Gareth hasta John Aversin, un hombre algo diferente a lo que muestran las canciones en honor a su proeza y que recuerda la lucha con el dragón de una forma distinta a la que inmortalizaron las baladas.
Cuando Gareth explica que un dragón amenaza el mismo corazón del reino, John y Jenny tomarán la decisión de ayudar al monarca; pero Gareth no ha sido sincero con ellos por completo.
Really terrific. This is my first Hambly book, and I was so impressed. I had to put the book down for a moment at page 172, and I was amazed to find that so much had been conveyed in so few pages, and yet the pacing never felt rushed, and the characters and the world they lived in seemed so fully fleshed out. The focus on "mature" lovers/adventurers was also a refreshing change from so much of fantasy, and the exploration of the internal war between the idealized self and the mundane self was thought-provoking and beautiful.
I am sorry but she should have chosen both and you know it. Monogamy is a terrible story deviceThis writer would drop kick my ass but Jenny should have chosen both John and Morkeleb. Who wouldn't want a dragon boyfriend in the summer and to snuggle with a man in the winter? I would have picked both. Still one has to love fantasy stories with people getting together and being friends and fighting against some horrible evil. Always fun. But if there has to be a love triangle pick both!
Le doy 4 estrellas porque me ha gustado bastante, sobre todo valorando en la época en la que fue escrita.
Me han gustado los personajes, muy alejados de los clichés de su época, muy humanos y realistas y bien trabajados.
También me ha gustado el tono adulto que desprende la novela.
Y el final, sin ser el más original, encaja a la perfección con la historia.Su gran pero para mi gusto, es quizás que peca de una trama algo simple y sobre todo que el ritmo narrativo a partir del primer tercio se hunde y nunca llega a remontar.Como siempre os dejo el enlace a mi blog por si queréis darle un vistazo a la reseña que dejé allí:https://fantasiascifiymuchomas.blogsp...
No fue casualidad que decidiera leer una de las mejores novelas de Brandon Sanderson (El Camino de los Reyes), junto a Vencer al Dragón, pues el fan del autor de Nebraska ya debe saber que este es su libro favorito.Siempre me preocupo por reflexionar y recomendar una obra de la fantasía en función de la época en que fue escrita.
Cierto que hay historias que no sobreviven muy bien con el paso del tiempo, ya sea porque las ideas presentadas en su momento han sido mejoradas o reelaboradas con mayor acierto (por ejemplo, Elric de Melniboné) o porque han sido olvidadas injustamente.Esta obra de Hambly nacida a mitades de los 80, creo que es una de las olvidadas, a pesar de que muchos de los elementos de la novela hoy en día se condenan por clichés.
Pasada esa primera sección, probablemente un cuarto del mismo, la lucha contra los tópicos se pierde, el ritmo se vuelve demasiado pausado y la prosa demasiado abundante para lo que realmente se está contando.Hay, no obstante, algo que me gustaría subrayar: el libro parece en un primer momento orientado a describir la historia del vencedor de dragones, pero pronto nos damos cuenta de que el protagonismo va basculando a favor de su compañera, la que en otro tipo de lecturas sería el complemento, la amante, la madre de los hijos.
Even with an ending that kind of doubles back on itself -- the last chapter probably should have been cut.The most prominent thing about this book is its relentless focus on the female perspective from the female main character and how her perspective and her experience and her feelings are so different from all the non-female characters.
Here, it doesn't work because the main character is too focused on her feelings about not being an impressive mage, not really committing to her family, and not fitting in anywhere to be constantly declaring how she's different from guys.
In this, one of her more recognizable works, Barbara Hambly demonstrates her great potential as an author and that she perhaps deserves more respect and recognition than she gets.
'Dragonsbane' is a well written, imaginative, and mature (in all the best and truest senses of the word) fantasy story with well drawn and complex characters.
Additionally, Hambly spends a good deal of time demythologizing her mythology and the mythology of the faerie story and heroic epic in general, but manages to avoid cynicism, fatalism, and nihilism while doing so.
Fifteen years ago, Jenny Waynest and John Aversin slew a dragon. Now they're middle-aged, with kids... and called upon to save the world when another dragon appears. One of my very favorite fantasies. Wonderful characterization, witty dialogue, poignant personal and moral dilemmas, and a fantastic dragon.It was written as a stand-alone, and has a perfect ending. Some terrible, depressing sequels were written 15 years later. Ignore them.
So freaking good. Love Jenny. Reminds me a little of Nora with the hard choices she had to make in life. Really appreciated the respect the author has for her characters. Thoroughly enjoyable wizard book. First class.
I know it's a cliche, but I love how Hambly creates engaging women characters in her fantasy books.
