https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71865.Tomorrow_When_the_War_Began
aussie teens are no joke.
these kids know how to mobilize and all that outback tends to athleticize a body.
but i would totally read that book.i truly love teen survival tales, and this one scratched my itch, and there are SIX MORE BOOKS!!
american survival stories tend to only go trilogy.
some will fall in love, some will get shot, some will blow shit up...they are practical and resourceful teens, farm kids mostly, so not too squeamish, and they just...take care of business.and they aren't even vampires!
It was unthinkable - but it was very possible This was a kind of dystopian with plenty of actions and, surprisingly, ample supply of food(!)Story: their town was invaded overnight. These kids were left free because they were camping in remote mountain area, appropriately or inappropriately (up to you really), called Hell.That sounds promising enough although I kept wondering if it would have been a better book if the group picked someone else other than Ellie to write their story down. That's s
These kids were left free because they were camping in remote mountain area, appropriately or inappropriately (up to you really), called Hell.That sounds promising enough although I kept wondering if it would have been a better book if the group picked someone else other than Ellie to write their story down.
People don't go aroung giving monologues you know, this ain't Aaron Sorkin's script alright?!
That they would be better off in the Showground with the others than sneaking around at night and risking getting shot death (hide spoiler)]Now *that* was realistic.
It’s these brief moments in between the action, the reactions that come from these broken people that feel so startlingly real I have to catch my breath.
Because actions and feelings are messy, and John Marsden knows that.
He wants you to know it, too, even if you don’t like it.If you’re looking for an action-packed story about heroes with good guys and bad guys and an ending you can see coming from a mile away, don’t bother with the Tomorrow series.
I feel like all of the books are too short anyway, so I think of them as one giant story.
It's like I'm reading a Movie into novel. I didn't no while reading it's picturise as a movie or not. But that's a movie stuff for sure. After reading I have searched and found that it has been picturised and that's great. This thing has been written for a film. After reading the very 1st chapter I'm sure of it. Not so extraordinary but an enjoyable read. "In this life of froth and bubble,Two things stand like stone,Kindness in another’s trouble,Courage in your own."
I don't think I've ever liked the movie version of a story half as well as the real book -- except for The Hunt for Red October.
I think actually there is one more thing besides great characters and clever plotting and great writing that makes these books sink into your mind and heart to stay.
That's what I've learned."And, from the last book in the series:"The old stories used to end with "They all lived happily ever after." And you'd often hear parents saying: 'I just want my kids to be happy.' That's crap, if you ask me.
Ellie and her friends Corrie, Robyn, Lee, Kevin, Homer and Fi live in and around a small rural town in an undisclosed part of Australia.
They find another friend, Chris, in hiding and he joins them, filling them in on what happened.This is the first book in the Tomorrow series and follows Ellie, who narrates, and the others as they try to survive, stay one step ahead of the enemy, and inflict what damage they can.
I feel weird writing "fun" when the story deals with a foreign invasion of one's country and home grown gorilla groups responding to the invasion.
The theme is somewhat similar to Red Dawn if Red Dawn had been done better, told from the point of view of a girl and set in beautiful Australia.
While the book deals with survivalist topics, it also centers around the relationships of 8 teenagers so it has some sweet and fun light moments.Fans of the apocalpyse or survivalist genre, young adult books and Australian authors will enjoy this book.
*Updated since watching the movie Red Dawn4.5 stars Tomorrow, When the War Began starts off with a group of teenagers going to camp out at a place they call Hell.
If you love action packed books like i do, this is a must read.
You have much more details in this, and you can like both Red Dawn and Tomorrow when the war began for each their own special qualities.
Red Dawn felt much more sad, and there was a whole lot of action in it, and as it's a movie you can get through it much more quickly than these books.
Once again, Kelly pipes up “READ THE DAMN BOOKS!”And so last week I was at this mammoth used bookstore and lo and behold, I came across Tomorrow When the War Began.
But Ellie and her pals are in their late teens and for once would rather be in the bush having fun then parading smartly-groomed sheep around the fairgrounds.[image error]She piles her Landie (Land Rover) with the right supplies and camping gear and her friends, the well-manicured Fi, doofus Homer, Christian Robyn, mysterious Lee and the couple, Kevin and Corrie, and takes them STRAIGHT TO HELL.[image error]No. Literally.
Ellie and her friends decide to fight back.The first book in the series, TOMORROW, WHEN THE WAR BEGAN, does a serviceable but not spectacular job at introducing the characters and setting up the premise.
The series hits its stride.Unlike Suzanne Collins, Marsden never forgets that the thoughts and reactions of the characters caught up in the action can be more exciting than any explosion.
Katniss develops into a character that is often too depressed or self-absorbed to notice and/or engage with what is going on around her.The TOMORROW SERIES is Ellie's story from start to finish.
At the same time, there's a sureness to their friendship that lets me root for the entire group of them.There's also a distinct love for the rural areas of Australia that shines through, and I don't know of any book that isn't improved by a strong sense of place.I thought it was pretty much a perfect mix of action, of the practical details that are necessary in any survival/post-apocalyptic tale, of kids being kids and also acting as a brave and clever guerrilla troop.
I was glad to see that it's the first of series, because I'm looking forward to reading more about these characters and their circumstances.
It is a fun read but a bit too unrealistic, I mean a country such as Australia doesn't get invaded in five days. No matter how much planning is done!
Opening Line: “It’s only half an hour since someone-Robyn I think- said we should write everything down, and it’s only twenty-nine minutes since I was chosen, and for those twenty-nine minutes I’ve had everyone crowded around me gazing at the blank pages and yelling ideas and advice.”This was very good and had I read it when I was a teenager I know I would have loved it.
I loved the magic of the teens ascending “Satan’s steps” and finding “Hell” Their own private world in all its secluded beauty, far away from civilization, parents and rules.
4 starsYoung adult fiction at its best, plus it's apparently book 1 of 7! Lots of reading fun to come.Some teenagers go bush for a camping getaway and return to find their homes empty, the phone lines are dead, there's no electricity and only static on the radio. Among the fear and survival tactics is scattered that dry Australian sense of humour which I love. Highly recommended for young and young at heart!
What if my 'growing up' has changed my opinion of the book - will I ruin a good memory, or reinforce just why I loved that book so much that the paperback I had eventually fell apart from so many re-reads?These were exactly the worries I had when I started listening to the audio of Tomorrow, When the War Began.
The setting of Tomorrow, When the War Began is infinitely familiar to me - it literally smacks of Australia in a way that few other books I've read does.
I am so late to this book series but honestly, I am so glad that I managed to track down a copy since my overall reaction to this novel was quite positive.
It did scream a little bit of The Hunger Games vibes for me but since that is my favourite trilogy ever, I'm not complaining too much :PTomorrow, When The War Began is the first book in a seven book YA series which is set in Australia.
It follows a young girl called Ellie and her friends who go camping out in the bush as a sort of last hurrah before heading back to school.
http://www.candlebark.info/In this 1993 novel, the kids are in their early to mid-teens and show the kind of resourcefulness that I imagine Candlebark is hoping to instil in their primary school students, without the homemade bomb capabilities, though!In my girls’ rural high school, one of the boys was funny and very well-liked, but he was so noisy and disruptive that he exasperated his teachers and classmates.
Sometimes Fi seemed like an exotic butterfly.”While Ellie is sitting alone later, enjoying the bush, she muses to herself about people judging each other for where they live or go to school.
When Ellie, a high-school senior who lives on a ranch in rural Australia, gets the idea to invite all her friends to "go bush" and spend five days in the outback wilderness, they think it will be fun to get away from everything they know for a short while.
After returning from a fun, successful trip, the group of seven kids - Ellie, Corrie, Kevin, Homer, Robyn, Lee, and Fi - discover that something really bad has happened.
Of the group, four are "rurals." They've grown up around animals, on farms and ranches, doing things the town kids would never dream of.
It's written as a journal entry by one of the girls, 17-year old Ellie, so it reads as though it's been...
written by a 17-year old girl.
I was weened on Red Dawn, the ultimate What If tale of evil Soviets invading America and plucky rural kids (much like those here in Tomorrow) decide to fight back and become guerilla warriors.Perhaps there are cultural differences that I'm not aware of, but there just seemed to be a detachment here.
But a (too) large portion of the story is devoted to Ellie trying to figure out which boy in the group she likes better.
More like 3.5 starsI love survival tales and this is an exciting and different spin then I have been reading of late.
I get that Australia is gorgeous and rugged, but...
but who would invade them?
The land of snakes, crocodiles
Dylan Moran one of my fav comedians once said of Australia :Located three quarters of a mile from the surface of the sun, people audibly crackling as they walk past you on the street.
If that's what the land is like what are their teens like?
That's right they are badass, these invaders had it coming.
Even worse - Teenage Romance.In the midst of death we are in life We were in the middle of a desperate struggle to stay alive, but here was I still thinking about boys and love.If you haven't guessed by now, I'm not a huge fan of romance.
If I can connect with the characters, I don't mind it/will tolerate it and in the rarest of rare cases I like it.
In this case I was uninterested in any of the characters and disliked the romance.And what about the dreaded "triangle"?
Although the group had 8 members, I ended the book knowing only a few well enough to care what happened to them.
(However, I have just started book 2 and this is addressed so bravo!) The format also made the love stuff (there’s love stuff) leap-frog all of the fun crush-building moments straight to “Oh, by the way, I’m in love with so and so now.” I know they are all life and death and there’s no time for semantics but I was left feeling a little disappointed.
In a move that is incredibly cliched, though I didn't realise it at the time, Lee pulls an ancient condom from his wallet that dates from a long-forgotten sex ed lesson several years previously.
I was as naive and prudish as any child, and though I understood the mechanics of sex (or at least I think I did), the idea that anyone could write about it was mind-blowing.Later on, it was also the birth of a long friendship resulting from a giggly moment with a fellow bookworm ("did you read the bit where...
Though sometimes a bit slow and on occasion the MC would get on my nerves, but overall I liked it.
I had seen the movie first, but honestly don't remember much about it, which is probably a good thing when reading the book.I like how well the characters seem to be defined and believable in their personalities.
I mean, really, if this did happen in Australia, like that.
I've read other books where similar things have happened, say in the US or UK, but they never left me with this nagging at the back of my head that I can't seem to shake.
That's not necessarily a bad thing either.
I've lost track of how many times I've read this book.
Coming to the Tomorrow series rather late in the game (I'd hazard I was 16 when I first picked it up), I suspect if I had read it earlier it would have had more of an impact on myself.
Even so, the book's impact is great.
Any Australian who hasn't read the books in this series (though the first 5 are the best), whether a teenager or not, should.
Others outside Australia would do well to read them as well, even if they don't understand some of the Aussie slang and colloquialisms.
i love this series so much <3
I really ended up liking this.
It took me about 50 pages to get into it but I think it was really good!
It's told in the style of someone after the events writing down what happens and I really liked it.
I found her tone really well done and I think that the MC has a great voice.
I overall liked pretty much all the characters.
A few minor quibs with some of the other characters and plot points but overall everyone is enjoyable and I think there's a lot of potential for the rest of the series to be amazing.
I liked the premise, but it fell flat for me. I wasn't really invested in the characters and I would have liked to get more answers about why the invasion happened, who did it and all that jazz. I'm assuming this is answered in the next books in the series, but I don't really think I'll continue it.
This series is the 'most popular book series for young adults ever written in Australia' and I can imagine it being a source of debate (much like the group of teenagers do) in the classroom, and like a little lesson on history, politics, and ethics.The scene in Tomorrow When the War Began that I found most terrifying has to be when the group come back from camp (at the beginning of the book) and slowly start to realise that something is terribly wrong - that their country has been invaded.
I was even slightly worried that I'd have a nightmare, but luckily I didn't!Tomorrow is a seven-book long series and I've already started reading the second.
First read: January 11th 2010  Re-read: February 27th 2018   I picked this book up 8 years ago and i recently re-visited this series and to this day it will remain one of my favourite young adult series of all time!  i had some idea of what this story was about, it wasn't until i began reading it and it was actually about a teenage girl and her friends in Australia in the outback. I really do love a teen/ young adult survival story and this book was no exception i had just come of reading harry
i had some idea of what this story was about, it wasn't until i began reading it and it was actually about a teenage girl and her friends in Australia in the outback.
I really do love a teen/ young adult survival story and this book was no exception i had just come of reading harry potter and this was my second book series that i began reading and i can say i absolutely loved every moment and every page a i read.
The theme is somewhat similar to Red Dawn if Red Dawn had been done better, told from the point of view of a girl and set in beautiful Australia.
