https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21029.The_Theory_and_Practice_of_Group_Psychotherapy
Yalom came into my life just as I started serving as the sole therapist for two groups of child sex offenders.
To put it mildly, some sage advice on being a group therapist was sorely needed.
This volume is a must-read (yes, all bajillion pages of it) for anyone doing group work, which is the majority of folks in doctoral psychology programs.
Yalom's tone is approachable, his sense of humor much appreciated, and his clinical wisdom boundless.
I tend to think of books this hefty as in need of good editing, but in this case, there's just a lot to be said on an endlessly interesting subject.
THE group therapy book. There is really nothing else to say but this laid the groundwork for the basics while support my clinical experience in the group setting. Yalom's stages of group development work with all sorts of groups, not just therapy groups. So after reading this book and applying it in a clinical setting I feel more equip to run therapy and report on group activity!
For school
Lecture intéressante mais plus laborieuse que "The Gift of Therapy", mais une référence sur la thérapie de groupe !
It comes from a very psychodynamic orientation, and although the author mentions other orientations or discusses how certain concepts are understood across the different orientations, readers should be aware that the book addresses how to conduct process group therapy.
One thing I will give him is that he tries to give readers a "heads up" about parts of his book they may wish to skip and recommends just reading summaries and to not read the research he cites.
However, I can't imagine anyone other than a psychology student/psychologist would read this book, and they should be reading the research, not just reading chapter summaries.
Holy crap, I finished this. Several things come to mind as I slowly digested this book.First, how the heck did he get his patients to stay in groups long enough to deal with all these interpersonal issues? I think most clients would get fed up with "that annoying person in group" and just leave. Second, how the heck does he deal with all the members' issues with authority? That being said, I did use a little bit of insight each time in my own work, so it was definitely worth the reading.
A classic. Before reading this book, the idea of group therapy was deeply unappealing to me. Now, I am intrigued by (if not completely sold on) the potential of groups to provide insights and healing that one-on-one therapy alone can't. Readers will also learn some basic things about group dynamics that can apply to all collective/communal experiences. Yalom is not only an insightful clinician, he is a wonderful writer.
Definitely a must have for any budding counselor. I can't argue with Yalom's ideas and thoughts on the subject. What I can't stand is Yalom's extreme narcissism that shines right through despite the fact that this is somewhat of a textbook. References to his other works come off as advertisements, and what warmth he created for group therapy (a wonderful thing in and of itself) he degrades with his own unintentional tone. But many people disagree.
I enjoy Yalom's writing style and the personal examples and stories he includes. This book is an essential resource to any therapist who wants to lead therapeutic groups. A therapeutic group acts as a social microcosm and can lead to individual change as group members relate and challenge one another. Yalom's book delves into the topic of groups as well as ways to structure, lead and troubleshoot these therapeutic communities.
Required reading during graduate school. Didn't really care for it then and still don't but it does serve as an excellent source for facilitating my students' awareness of Dr. Yalom's existential approach to groups. Probably quite a bit longer than it needs to be to adequately address the topic.
I had to read this for school. I really liked Yalom's sense of humor. He's a good writer and a gifted clinician.
Yet at times it is not clear who the audience is (a beginner psychotherapist or an intermediate psychotherapist or an advanced practitioner?).
At times I believe it could have been simplified or perhaps changed into two separate books for separate audiences, one at a basic level and one at an advanced level.
At the same time it contains a wealth of information, research findings and practical guidance about how to run a psychotherapy group.
I'm not finding it an easy read in parts and it is very thought provoking.
Perhaps it is a book to read a chapter here and there, rather than continuously.
O carte excelenta despre terapia de grup, acoperita cu rezultate din cercetari. Contine multe raspunsuri la intrebari tipice pe care un incepator le poate avea in legatura cu organizarea de astfel de grupuri.
Κορυφαίο βιβλίο για ψυχοθεραπευτές και διαχειριστές ομάδων θεραπείας. Απαραίτητο θα έλεγα. Εξειδικευμένο βιβλίο ακατάλληλο για το ευρύ κοινό που απλώς αναζητά λεπτομέρειες για να κατανοήσει την ομαδική ψυχοθεραπεία και πώς γίνεται.
I don't usually review my school/work-related books, but I was just reflecting on this one (read several years back) and thought I would make a note that it really is quite good, and is worth the read for anyone who's vocation requires some adroitness with interpersonal group dynamics.
I appreciated this book(: Gotta have patience due to it's length, but I feel so much better equipped to lead groups in part because of this book. Definitely had an attitude change after the first few chapters of my initial dread.
amazing how he can make a text book feel like a novel!
Super dense. Well written. I will likely need more read-throughs as my practice develops. The first book in a long time where I had to look up the definition of new words.
... I learned lots... read Freud.
A solid reference for academic papers. Focuses on the processes, theory, and application of group therapy/work. Dense, but solid and helpful points.
Classic
Irvin Yalom’s name is strong is psychiatric circles. Current emeritus professor of psychiatry at Standford University, Yalom has worked in the field for over fifty years. His 1995 text, Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy, gives an overview of group therapy as a field before touching on specific psychological factors worth considering when studying group therapy. The text is beyond impressive and expansive, worth studying for any group process student or expert. Yalom shines brightly in
His 1995 text, Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy, gives an overview of group therapy as a field before touching on specific psychological factors worth considering when studying group therapy.
The book begins by framing the discussion with Yalom’s explanation of his own observed seven therapeutic factors.
Nearly every discussion forward references and bolsters Yalom’s factors, only strengthening the sense they are the “skeleton” of the text.
As referenced earlier, anybody picking up Yalom’s Theory and Practice soon gets the sense this book is substantially impressive.
In conclusion, Yalom’s Theory and Practice is an impressive, expansive work that is a must-read for any student of group process.
This is a classic text for anyone who does group work, especially if you are facilitating personal change.
It is a therapeutic factor which indicates group members gain strength and insight from connecting with others that have similar problems and experiences.
Developing mechanisms within a program to ensure constructive share of experiences occurs can help bring about universality.Along with the 12 therapeutic factors, there is advice on group leader tasks, how to work in the here and now, group member composition and selection, group creation, group stages, problem members and specialist groups.
If you have an interest in group work, I recommend you check this book out.
I had the option of taking my Group Psychotherapy course either online, or in an actual group therapy setting with our professor as moderator.
Both options used Yalom's text.
I chose to take the actual group therapy course, and the text was invaluable.
Not only did we experience group from the client perspective, but we took turns leading our own groups.
From speaking to other students in the MS program who took the class online, it doesn't seem that the text was as effective without the hands-on experiential component.
The book alone won't prepare you to lead your groups during practicum and internship.
I used this book when I was a graduate student in the counseling psychology program back in the day, I have the third edition.
Bar none, the best text book/ case book about group therapy ever written.
I would read this book, out of personal interest and pleasure, regardless of whether it was part of a curriculum.
Yalom is a humble and incredibly articulate man, he doesn't act omnipotent and writes in plain and understandable language.
This book goes outside of the realm of simply group therapy, it touches upon the human condition and a possible remedy.
I read ths book as part of a graduate level group counseling course. Although Yalom's writing can get a bit overindulgent, I really learned a lot from this book. It is not a book to read from cover-to-cover. Like learning a new language, it needs to be part of an immersion in understanding group counseling. Without putting some of his theories into practice, it would be more difficult to understand exactly what he is talking about. Yalom is still the standard for understanding group counseling.
This was assigned reading for my group therapy class during my stint in psychological counseling. It was clear from the outset that all of my professors loved Yalom and now I can better appreciate why. This was a giant book but each chapter is extremely informative and helpful. I was able to use this more during my practical classes, but I think it's still helpful if you're curious about the subject matter or if you tend to find yourself with groups of friends who all seem to have issues and need to find a way to manage them.
There's a reason why this is the definitive book of group therapy. Yalom integrates an impressive amount of research into a book that is extremely easy to read. His illustrations of the usefulness in switching between process and content in a group context have me eagerly awaiting the opportunity to lead my first group session. This is easily one of the most clearly written and useful books that I have read in grad school. I'm definitely a fan.
while this book was part of the assigned readings for my last class in grad school (GO ME!!!), it turned out to be quite informative and helpful in adding to the base of my knowledge in psych. yalom is skilled in group therapy and writes in an eloquent and understandable manner. while i do not necessarily fully subscribe to the psychodynamic school of therapy, there are some insightful and resonating points that yalom highlights and addresses. overall, a pretty good read for a school book :)
Exceedingly comprehensive (and 572 page long) handbook on everything you ever wanted to know about group therapy. Yalom shares his expertise in this area and does a great job communicating in a way that is memorable when not overwhelming in terms of amount of content. This book helped to inform and improve my group therapy skills in profound ways. Only four stars because I felt it could have been more concise.
