https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13238283-at-home-on-the-range
I liked this because there are a lot of recipes for different ways to cook vegetables or stretch meat out as much as possible.
On the other hand, there are also recipes for strange meats, like tripe and calf's brains.
Also, I made the author's Crab Imperial and it was delicious, so as far as the cookbook part goes, it will carry itself even if you don't want to read the whole book through.
This book is for every woman who ever cooks or wants to.
Growing up hearing stories about Margaret Potter, it was only when she stumbled upon this cookbook, originally published in 1947, that she was finally able to get an honest glimpse into that remarkable woman's life.
Mrs. Potter's recollections of her own culinary adventures are off-beat and add a spice to the book and make it stand out among more typical cookbooks.
Written in paragraph form, the recipes are easy to understand and follow and though they're a lot more work-intensive than most modern women-(or men)-on-the-go will have time for every week, most are basic recipes that are good to have on hand for when you have more time to spend in the kitchen (but as a vegetarian, I must say that I skipped quickly over chapters dealing with things like cow's brains and coxcombs...).
Gilbert did a great job of setting the stage, and I enjoyed the informal and friendly (and surprisingly amusing!) tone of this book, as well as the perspectives on home and cooking from the early 20th century.
The author makes cooking from scratch sound so easy and effortless.
The Philadelphia Sticky Buns are high on my list because she made them sound so much easier than the more modern recipes (refrigerator-biscuit rolls excluded).One of my favorite parts was when the author explained how alien it had become to make bread at home, and how everyone was switching to buying bread at the store.
I loved this book!
If you like to read good books that contain lots of recipes, I think you will love it, too.
The old-fashioned recipes are written in "story form" and the author has a wonderful sense of humor - if a sometimes strange taste for food.
But at least recipes for things like Brains with Black Butter and Stewed Calf's Head don't send you scurrying to the kitchen intent on wrecking your diet for all time!
I do hope to try quite a few of the recipes, however, like Sour Milk Hot Cakes and Celery au Gratin.
I have always liked to read cookbooks. This book is like a dream come true - a cookbook written as prose. It's hard to believe the woman writing these recipes was from the early part of the 20th century. She was clearly ahead of her time. I especially liked her comment about not liking the Parmeson cheese in the green can. I concur!I'm already thinking of someone I can give this to as a gift!
Perhaps the best book on successful strategies for entertaining I've ever read. Many readers seem not to like it because the recipes are provided in paragraph form, but they are easily followed. In any event, the value of the book, in my opinion, is that it encourages the host to think strategically about what matters in feeding and entertaining guests, not in terms of lists of ingredients. The tone is bright and breezy, altogether a delightful read.
I read this book cover to cover. I loooooved the author's voice and sass, I loved how the recipes expect you to know how to cook, and I love how forward-thinking this cook was in 1947. I got this from the library but I'll be buying it as soon as I have to return it. I have the cruller dough chilling in the fridge now. :)
The book was written in 1947, so I can overlook (if not condone) the casual racism and sexism in it, but what I can't overlook is the fact that Gilbert, who should know better, gives a glowing review of her great-grandmother's cookbook without once mentioning its more problematic aspects, and while I know (and understand) that doesn't make the book any worse, it left a sour taste in my mouth, and every time I saw something objectionable in the book, I felt irritated that Gilbert hadn't even mentioned it.(Please feel free to keep it to yourself if you think I'm overreacting.
If you loved the book and felt it was an unalloyed goodness, go review it yourself, please.)
What a riot!
First off, be forewarned that this cookbook is written in the OLD style, like country newspapers from the 1930s.
No glossy photos of finished dishes here.
BUT what it DOES have is chatty humor and classy quips; Mz. Potter was full of spice and that's no lie.
Some amazing ideas for recipes too.
You ever start pan gravy with sour cream?
I'd never even _heard_ of that technique, probably why i don't like gravy, obviously i was deprived.
This book truly is a window to a different time.
(and possibly a time with truly far better food...)
This was a very interesting work of culinary history. Potter was very much ahead of her time, with an interest in seeking out the cuisines of of cultures. The recipes are written in a descriptive way, rather than in the way modern cookbooks list the ingredients and then the instructions. The text was full of amusing quips. I have not tried any of the recipes yet, though I'm not sure how many things I would actually cook--I don't eat read meat. Some of the side dishes did look very interesting.
A fun, cute, quick read, with some witty recipes. I love "vintage" cooking books like this--they give me a good feel for how cooking used to be (at least for a certain income level.) It's very much like "Little Heathens", if you read that, at least in the cooking parts of that book.
This book was originally published by Potter in 1947 and may be the second cookbook I’ve ever read from cover-to-cover (the other, Mildred O.
I’ve prepared perhaps a half a dozen different recipes for chicken cacciatore (my late Italian uncle informed me cacciatore means “of the hunter,” intimating a certain flexibility of contents), but I find this one fascinating.
Second, Potter departs from most cacciatore recipes by preparing the sauce separately and then pouring it over the chicken; most directions require one to add all ingredients following the browning of the chicken (usually with garlic and onion).
The author is charming and before her time, though I wouldn't agree with the blurb on the back of the book that called her recipes practical (they're not).
They're a wonderful slice of her life and how things used to be.
And hilariously, she had a page about trying to make leftover bits and bobs over for dinner parties that is the formula for the TV show Chopped, fifty years early.
Her bit about spending money on good aprons rather than gowns given the amount of time spent in each was particularly fun, but there are jewels through the entire volume.
presented by Elizabeth Gilbert, (Eat, Pray, Love)self published in l947 by Gilbert's great grandmother, Potter, This recipe book is one of the few I've read that is published in complete narrative style.
(At the end Gilbert, reprints (rearranging as ingredients, process format) the family's favorite 10.))That appended attempt to make the book more like a recipe book was the only modernization done by Gilbert.
She left several cultural references unedited.
The obvious downward economical spiral of Potter and her desire to entertain lead her to be a "cook - the pig from head to toe" user of all parts of animal fowl and fish and a scavenger for edible plants.
What I liked. The heritage and connection between generations. The historical perspective. Reading the types of recipes for eel, calf brains, mock terrapin. Definitely east coast oriented. Insight into the decades of 1920-40s America.What I didn’t like. The recipe format which was written like a paragraph, not a recipe. Recipes blended together. I didn’t try any of the recipes. Not that I originally wanted to but as I read through the pages I felt zero interest or temptation.
I thought this would be interesting because of the time frame and like the idea of memoir and recipes. However, I could not relate to this family nor the menus and recipes. More than half way through I through in the towel and moved on to something more relavent.
Actual Rating 2,5 Stars
2/3 cookbook, 1/3 mid-century manners and social commentary. A fun read in short segments!
My kind of book. Old-fashioned good advice from a great home cook. Funny, heartwarming and informative. Gave me the warm fuzzies, and I am considering trying to prepare brains, kidneys and eel.
The last chapter, devoted to outfitting a kitchen, is enlivened by offhand comments such as this one about choosing a refrigerator: "Too often only the electric type is considered, forgetting that while it heralds the welcome disappearance of the iceman, that bringer-in of mud and gossip and sex interest, there also vanishes a really adequate, bountiful supply of ice." Wait a minute!!
In fact, I put two on that list, because I know just who would appreciate a gift!
Gilbert tries to remedy this problem by putting 10 of her favorite recipes in this very format at the back of the book, but this is scant consolation since there are over 100 recipe in this cookbook!Also, I must add that I did not attempt any of the recipes and I wonder if any of the ingredients and portion sizes have been tested for our modern kitchens/palates.Nonetheless, this book would make a great present or a fun (skimming) read.
Plus toate sosurile alea din reţetarul clasic franţuzesc (poate nu chiar toate, îi mai şi ia peste picior) şi, cînd nu avea cu ce (n-au dus-o tocmai bine mereu), găsea tot felul de substitute.
Comic, pentru că idea de a te agăţa de nişte fixaţii culinare ajunse aproape convenţii (supa de broască ţestoasă e prima care îmi vine în minte) mi se pare hilară, mai ales cînd presupune o megabătaie de cap, plus bani.
Trist pentru că oamenii chiar ţin(eau) la treburile astea şi îşi amărau viaţa cînd nu le ieşeau.
I really love old cookbooks - they're an incredible way to see how women before us lived, how people celebrated, saved money, spent their time.
And when you update the recipes with modern notation (as Gilbert does to 10 at the end), these recipes are actually still pretty useful.The best chapters here were drinks, parties, desert and vegetables.
She's funny and creative - it would have been great to know her.That being said, I really wonder if this book would have been published if the author wasn't related to Elizabeth Gilbert (of 'Eat, Pray, Love' fame).
"Eat, Pray, Love"'s Elizabeth Gilbert presents a long-forgotten cookbook published by her great-grandmother postwar, with foreword and afternotes.
Economy steered her toward some dishes that I'll not likely be trying, but there are some fine baked goods recipes I look forward to making, including a cookie recipe that's around 200 years old!
If you're fascinated by the postwar era, love a good narrative, or count the kitchen as a font of inspiration, you may really enjoy this book.
It's shelved proudly between my 1948 "Working Girl's Own Cook Book" and 1954 "Bestir Yourself," where it can enjoy many more years of fine company.
After reading a magazine article about this book, I immediately ordered a copy via Amazon.com on my cell phone.
My first cell phone purchase.
hahaI've had the book for over a month, but last night I decided to look it over.
I already knew it was half story and half recipe.
Wow. I was sucked in immediatly.
It wasn't until much later, when I finally read the book jacket that I realized the author's great granddaughter was Elizabeth Gilbert who wrote Eat, Pray, Love.I really enjoyed this book.
I gave my copy to my mother, so she could enjoy it too.
Claiming that a hearty appetite and a good sense of humour were the only requirements for a good cook, At Home on the Range encourages others to employ those same virtues in their own homemaking.
Potter learns how to make pizza from an Italian grocer back when international food was scandalous.
And in the winter months, when colds and flus are making the rounds, she offers recipes and helpful suggestions for getting through the boredom.
Witty, ingenious, and always practical, At Home on the Range still offers excellent tips for living well.From the review on my blog: www.theteatimereader.wordpress.com
I didn't get a chance to finish this, but I enjoyed the parts I did read.
The recipes were a little difficult to follow (they are written in paragraphs), but they are organized into chapters based on situation, like meals for entertaining on a long weekend at the beach.
The delightful part of this book comes from remembering that it was originally published in 1947, which usually springs to mind after reading the author refer to her children as "juvenile delinquents," or after she begs her readers to never, ever buy the stale Parmesan in "that green can." These instances made me giggle and wish I had more time to finish the book.

I love to cook and discover new recipes and I also loved Eat, Pray, Love.
So, I thought this book would be perfect, I must admit that I didn't fully read what the book was about other than cooking.
I bought the book at Elizabeth Gilbert's store in NJ.
It was a hardcover and was signed.
I was sold!
While reading the book I couldn't get past the recipes and the story.
Personally I would prefer one or the other.
I never realized that I like my recipes written in a certain way until this book.
I really couldn't get past that.
Part scholar and part crusader for a more open food conversation, Potter espoused the importance of farmer’s markets and ethnic food (Italian, Jewish, and German), derided preservatives and culinary shortcuts, and generally celebrated a devotion to epicurean adventures. Reading this practical and humorous cookbook, it’s not hard to see that Elizabeth Gilbert inherited her great-grandmother’s love of food and her warm, infectious prose.The chapter entitled “Egg Yourself on in Emergencies,” is, in my opinion, one of the most perfectly perfect things written. Ever.You can read about it here: http://suannelaqueurwrites.com/litera...
