https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13872.Geek_Love
The good: Geek Love has a handful of the most memorable characters you’ll ever find.
To say that Geek Love is often unsettling is a rank understatement, but the book holds its dark thrall not by describing the physical deformities embodied by the characters, but by forcing that unflinching view inward.
The Bad: Dunn needs an editor with a big red pen and the balls to call her on the carpet when her writing gets way to precious.
The Bottom Line: This is a book that flirts with being truly great, but only ends up being pretty damn good.
I thought the writing was beautiful, and I don't even know that I would say it was badly edited (a comment I read in another review), but I hated all of the characters.
I don't know if I've ever hated so many characters in a book as though they were my personal enemies.
I just want to give it to the library, if that's okay." "Oh," he said, looking at his computer screen and not giving any other response.
They thought to use and shame me but I win out by nature, because a true freak cannot be made. A true freak must be born. Geek Love is an amazing book, audacious, moving, beautiful, substantive, creepy, upsetting, tragic and dark. So you think of yourself as different, an outsider, a freak in one way or another? Well, maybe you are, but your differences would likely fade were you to compare yourself to most of the characters in this best-selling novel from Katherine Dunn, so best-selling in fac
And, in addition to being a popular success, it was a critical one as well, earning a spot as a finalist for the 1989 National Book Award.A word of warning (several, actually) for those who are familiar only with the contemporary meaning of the word “geek.” Before the word had its DNA mutated to mean “an expert,” particularly of the techie variety, before serious people proclaimed that the geeks will inherit the earth, the word referred specifically to carnival performers who engaged in the very un-nerdy practice of biting the heads off live chickens for paying audiences.
(That part’s not too clear, though.) The problem is, once you get past the shock value of wanting to fuck your brother who also happens to look like a giant fish, there really isn’t much going on here.Right before starting this book, I read Middlesex.
The similarities in theme (except for the bit about the giant fish) are uncanny: there’s incest, sexual objectification, and also a shitload of family drama.
I believe she’s supposed to be like a second coming of Dr. Phyllis, disfiguring her clients as a means of helping them achieve enlightenment, yet for some strange reason she wants to remove Miranda’s tail?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/It's a snow day today and since my tiny humans are to the point where my snow days are numbered since they aren't so tiny any longer I decided to stay home with them in order to read porn make cookies and hot cocoa and scream loving things out the front door like "IT'S 10 DEGRESS OUTSIDE - GET YOUR ASSES BACK IN HERE BEFORE YOU FREEZE TO DEATH!" But then I realized this book would be expiring from my Kindle in like a minute and a half so I figured I better morph my plan and get a "review" churned out right quick.To be honest, I don't really know what to say.
Book Circle Reads 26Close to the top of any literature lover's life list of lovely books. Well, now, upon more than a decade's passing, I can't say I agree with myself here.Rating: 3.25* of fiveThe Book Description: Geek Love is the story of the Binewskis, a carny family whose mater- and paterfamilias set out–with the help of amphetamine, arsenic, and radioisotopes–to breed their own exhibit of human oddities. There’s Arturo the Aquaboy, who has flippers for limbs and a megalomaniac ambition wor
Book Circle Reads 26Close to the top of any literature lover's life list of lovely books.
Well, now, upon more than a decade's passing, I can't say I agree with myself here.Rating: 3.25* of fiveThe Book Description: Geek Love is the story of the Binewskis, a carny family whose mater- and paterfamilias set out–with the help of amphetamine, arsenic, and radioisotopes–to breed their own exhibit of human oddities.
As the Binewskis take their act across the backwaters of the U.S., inspiring fanatical devotion and murderous revulsion; as its members conduct their own Machiavellian version of sibling rivalry, Geek Love throws its sulfurous light on our notions of the freakish and the normal, the beautiful and the ugly, the holy and the obscene.
Two backup singers who constantly refrainSweet sweet, the freaks that you gave to meYou can’t beat the geeks that you gave to meA handsome tuxedo-wearing guy singsTake one set of Siamese twinsAdd a boy with only finsNo legs, no arms, he swims, he charmsMemories are made of thisThen add some pesticideJust a sprinkle of infanticideIncest and twin sex for the flavorShould you be hard to pleaseVoluntary amputeesWill give you plenty to savorAdd a dwarfish hunchbacked girlAnd a guy without a faceThere’s a telekinetic boyAnd a rich lady who likes to pay pretty girls to undergo operations to make them really uglyMemories are made of thisSweet sweet, the freaks that you gave to meMemories are made of thisYou can’t beat the geeks that you gave to meFade.*The story is narrated by Oly, the hunchbacked albino dwarf.
And I love the book for that.The plot is simple and sick enough: Al and Lil Binewski, a young couple madly in love and struggling to save Al's family business, a traveling carnival fabulon, devise a plan to keep themselves from going under.
This is a brutal and horrific book that also succeeds to be hysterical and heartbreaking, not to mention incredibly human, and that may be the most uncomfortable part of all: How these freaks of nature succeed so well at reflecting the inner-side of emotion, which is more human than one could ever hope their physical appearance can be.
If David Lynch wrote a novel, this would be it.
This novel is repugnant, disgusting, and baffling.
I loved it.
Who'd have thought that a book narrated by a bald female hunchbacked albino dwarf would be so beautiful?
The trials and tribulations of the Binewski family are shocking and sickening but yet you feel a strange attraction to this family of freaks.
This is one of the most original novels I've ever read, I will never come across anything like this ever again.
Reading "Geek Love" is an experience that I highly recommend to everyone, living or dead.
You'll feel sick with awe.
But soon after our births, a member of The Cult of Normalcy gave us a pamphlet and offered us the opportunity to blend in with the rest of society.
So here we are trying to live our lives like everyone else, constantly checking the mirror to make sure we look like everyone else, and taking some time out of our day to laugh and gawk at those who have failed miserably at our collective endeavor.
If what we see in the mirror doesn't reflect the rest of society, we do things to fix ourselves.
These are true freaks, who appear, almost always, conventional and dull.
4  starsAny book that was written in the early ‘80’s and is still worth reading today, is almost by definition, a semi-classic; though cult-horror classic might be closer to the mark for Geek Love. That’s right: this is not your run-of-the-mill beach novel. I will not be placing this book on my list of Best Ten Novels of the 20th Century; but I’m sure there are others who will, and I have no basic argument with them. Geek Love is bizarre, but only on the surface. Fundamentally, this is a solid,
4 ½ starsAny book that was written in the early ‘80’s and is still worth reading today, is almost by definition, a semi-classic; though cult-horror classic might be closer to the mark for Geek Love.
{No offence taken, those of you who choose to leave this review now.} Firstborn Arty is followed by Siamese twins Electra (Elly) and Iphigenia (Iphy); next is Oly, then Chick (Fortunato, because his parents thought he was a “norm” until they learned he is telekinetic).Oly is our narrator; not deformed enough to perform, she is reduced to the role of a servant to her family.
so that her children can be born with various disabilities and deformities that will allow them to bring money in for the carnival.This book is fucked up, as you can imagine from the premise alone.
Although I didn't feel like I was very emotionally connected while reading the majority of the book, towards the end it surprised me how much I felt for these characters (especially with regards to specific plot points that I won't spoil).
The majority of the book follows the family in chronological order, but there are a couple of chapters that follow the character of Olympia (our narrator) later in life, and those were the only parts that didn't hold my interest as much.
A true freak must be born."When times were looking tough, Al and Lil Binewski used their ingenuity, along with some poisons and chemicals, to come up with a way to keep their traveling Carnival alive, breed their own main attractions.
Katherine Dunn does a beautiful job of describing the freakish surface details of her characters and the whole Carnival life while at the same time making each of them utterly human and easily relatable on the inside.
This is simply a coming-of-age story revolving around a family in a very unique situation and is beautiful and horrifying and deeply moving all at once.
The result is a pair of Siamese twins, Electra and Iphigenia; Arty, a boy without arms and legs and with flippers for hands and feet; Fortunato, also known as Chick, a kid who looks normal but who has amazing telekinetic powers; and Olympia, a hunchbacked albino dwarf who is also the narrator of the story.The protagonists of Geek Love are all despicable, and none more than the Biniewski seniors, Al and Lily.
Arty sees the human body as a burden and believes that only in deformity such as his one can achieve true peace and freedom.Olympia is just an hunchbacked albino dwarf; by the Biniewski standard she has no real exotic deformity, and because of this she was almost abandoned at birth.
The novel is the story of the family, starting and ending with Olympia, the albino dwarf child who narrates most of the story.I kept thinking of Infinite Jest which would have been published seven years later, but may have been influenced by this novel, which was quite popular in the circles of the early 90s non-pop, alternative, pop culture icons.
The obsessiveness of Dunn's characters also would have fit well into that world.I realize not everyone has read Infinite Jest so I'll talk more about the actual book.
I should say that in Geek Love, people outside the family are labeled "Norms" and are usually disregarded.
This book is complex, creative, and mind-boggling.
It's not that Katherine Dunn doesn't do a fine job describing her material...it's just that the imagery is so complex and vivid that it takes a lot out of the brain to envision for oneself.This book is about the outsider making the insider feel bad because the insider doesn't fit with the outsiders.
This book is about belonging and acceptance in ways that are partly disturbing, but not unbelievable.
This is a horrifying look between the tent flaps of a traveling carnival known as Binewski's Fabulon. Al and Crystal Lil Binewski have a grotesque way of growing your own. Freaks, that is. A horrific premise and disturbing ideas make for a very different read. Be forewarned, this one is way dark.
DNF @ 60 pages. Some books just aren't for me. This is one of them.No rating, no regrets, but no more time spent on this one either.
Like a collaboration between John Irving and David Lynch, this audaciously conceived, sometimes shocking tale of love and hubris in a carnival family exerts the same mesmeric fascination as the freaks it depicts, despite essential structural flaws.
In language as original and fantastic as her story, Dunn (Attic, 1970; Truck, 1971) tells the tale of Binewski's Carnival Fabulon, an unremarkable traveling show until patriarch Aloysius decides to breed his own freaks.
Although the framing story - years later, Olympia schemes to save Miranda, her daughter by Arturo, from a perverse philanthropist - is poorly integrated, and the novel sometimes judders along, this is captivatingly original stuff.
I just realized I never added my favorite book of all time to my GR shelf. Don't expect a review though because my memory for details is shit. Only major plot spoilers stick in my head. I've read it twice and will read it again and review it then. You should read it. That's all I'm saying.
i hated this book and i try not to be offended that so many people i know liked it.
since amputation is something i have actually experienced, and has impacted my life in ways i can still only begin to understand or describe, there is nowhere for me to go with a book like this.
this is a tale of parents' profiting from the manipulation of their children's bodies, the horizontal abuse between siblings, the feelings of entrapment as "freaks"/disabled people who can't leave their family, and cult status of one of the children who convinces followers to amputate their limbs.
Weirdly coincidental.So anyway, Geek Love is about this family of carnies (carnival workers - to the less colloquially gifted) that decides to chemically engineer their children.
They embark on this Machiavellian sibling rivalry that is wildly entertaining and emotionally gripping.I think Dunn copped out with the ending though - I think she didn't know what to do with the characters, so she just ended it...I hate to give it away, but I thought it was a sloppy ending indeed.That being said, she does overwhelmingly succeed in questioning our society's views on the normal vs freakish.
Move along!Come inside, the show's about to startguaranteed to blow your head apartRest assured you'll get your money's worthThe greatest show in Heaven, Hell or Earth.You've got to see the show, it's a dynamo.You've got to see the show, it's rock and roll ....Right before your eyes we pull laughter from the skiesAnd he laughs until he cries then he dies then he diesCome inside the shows about to startGuaranteed to blow your head apartYou gotta see the showIt's a dynamoYou gotta see the showIt's rock and rollSoon the Gypsy Queen in a glaze of VaselineWill perform on guillotineWhat a scene!
I don't know what that means but she died of cancer not long afterwards so it and the book have acquired a kind of totemic power over my imagination.
I understood that Geek Love would be dark because all books about the circus are dark, but not even my reading of Fred Rosen's Lobster Boy: The Bizarre Life and Brutal Death of Grady Stiles Jr., prepared me for Geek Love.
Once I started to read the book I understood the opposite to be true.
And I can't help but wonder what my aunt, who was no stranger to cruelty herself, meant by giving me this book.
This is a VERY early pre-review, but we are buddy reading this at the MacHalo group during our 2016 February Taboo/Disturbing Themed Month. We are also reading Lolita, Flowers in the Attic, and The End of Alice. So let me know if you want to get in on the action. Geek Love starts February 10, 2016. (Yes, we plan that far ahead. Sometimes.) :)
Either that or make this book 600 pages to develop the present day story and characters in the manner they deserved, because the idea was great.
Then again, Hitler existed in real life so I guess these character's actions aren't unbelievable after all.One of the themes, which takes place in the past, can be summed up by the following quote from Arty, a character born with flippers instead of arms and legs: “I get glimpses of the horror of normalcy.
Arturism, Arty's new "religion," shows how desperate people are to be unique, yet they end up being nothing but mindless followers.Arty is one of the most interesting characters I've ever come across.
A true freak must be born.” ~Katherine DunnI loved this book.
For some reason this was one of those that I kept putting off because it didn't sound interesting,but now I know I was missing out on a great story.This was such a unique view of a family of freaks who are born, live and die as part of the carnival circuit.
And we 'norms' get a taste of the mindset and lives of a group of born geeks whose lives are sometimes sad, sometimes horrific, and at all times freaky.For a horror story, Geek Love packs a pretty emotional punch.
Bizarrely, even though they pissed me off with all their selfishness and craziness by the end I kind of liked them, what they did to their kids was unforgivable but they almost seemed normal, kind, and loving in comparison to other characters.Olympia Binewski (Al/Lil's daughter/albino hunchback dwarf/protagonist):At first I though Olympia wasn't as bad as her family, I was rooting for her to have some happiness and break free from the oppressive life she lived.
This book isn't about the blossoming romance between two hapless nerds. "Geek" refers to a circus person who rips into live chickens with their bare teeth, killing them by snapping the chickens' necks. It's a good book.
It is bitter for the young to see what awful innocence adults grow into, that terrible vulnerability that must be sheltered from the rodent mire of childhood.Can we blame the child for resenting the fantasy of largeness?
Big, soft arms and deep voices in the dark saying, 'Tell Papa, tell Mama, and we'll make it right.' The child, screaming for refuge, senses how feeble a shelter the twig hut of grown-up awareness is.
The weeping earth itself knows how desperate is the child's need for exactly that sanctuary.
