https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6066704-kitchen-essays
So much aspic! Whipped egg whites get put into so many dishes! I read my husband a few recipes and his comment was, "she sounds like one of those chefs that cooks with plenty of liquor, if you know what I mean."
The Short of It:A delightful distraction from the day-to-day.The Rest of It:Kitchen Essays is in fact, a collection of recipes, but it’s really quite a bit more than that.
It’s a guide…almost a food bible of sorts for the hostess that needs a bit of help planning a menu.
In the 1920s, every occasion was a party.
What I found incredibly humorous was the abundant use of butter and cream and the fact that nothing is really measured out.
Published in 1922, these recipes are for experienced cooks with sometimes very general directions for preparation, amounts, and seasoning.
A recipe for a Dutch Omelet begins: “Prepare some batter with milk, flour and 4 yolks of eggs.” The recipes reflect food preferences of the time, with the ingredients often being put through sieves/puréed or encased in aspic.
But among the thirty-five essays, there are also recipes for breakfast, tea-time, Venetian and Florentine food, dinners, tray food, rather elegant picnics, meatless meals, food for the punctual and the unpunctual, and holidays.
What a bygone age?
It is a time capsule of life way back when.....
social history in its purest form.
AJ is the great Gertrude Jekyll's sister in law and regularly wrote for the food pages of The Times, some of the choicest have been collected together into this book.
I'm not sure I will be ever using any of her selected recipes - calfs' heart does not inspire me - but the images she creates - a winter shooting party luncheon, country friends to a christmas shopping luncheon, bachelors entertaining and food for the punctual and the unpunctual are wonderful.Toast
What a delightful book. Jekyll had a way with words and a sly sense of humour, punctuating her fascinating recipes (so. much. aspic.) with little bits of commentary on entertaining. Very, very much of its time, which is what makes is so interesting.
The reply came short and incisive: "Thank you, I eat everything except corpses"Capture a stately pineapple
I thought this would be an old-fashioned recipe book a la Mrs Beeton but it's not like that at all.
It's a collection of articles written for The Times in the early 1920s by Agnes, Lady Jekyll, each one around a food-related theme or occasion.
The articles do contain recipes, but I was quite happy to read and imagine, without ever wanting to cook or taste.
This is partly because many of the recipes are extremely demanding of labour and time - Lady Jekyll assumes that her readers will have a full-time cook.
Then there is the question of ingredients.
Between 1921-1922 Lady Agnes Jekyll wrote a number of columns on food for the Times.
She includes appropriate meals for shooting party luncheons, supper before or after plays, sick or invalid trays, nursery treats, and many other occasions that certainly show her distinct place in history.The recipes themselves are probably manageable for some cooks, but don't include modern measurements, equipment, or readily available foods.
But for me, what was being eaten at the time was of more interest than how to prepare it myself - lots of gelatine in unexpected places and aspic dishes, as well as offal.
This is a collection of newspaper articles surrounding cooking and dining from the 1920's in England.
While I admit that most of the recipes hold little interest to me, with a few too many things like Calves Brains and Sheep Tongue, and jellied aspic, the social commentary and insight into the lives of the British at that time are fascinating.
It is a fairly light and quick read and as each chapter is from an article, it is easy to pick up and read a bit at time.
This book is a collection of newspaper articles about food and cooking from Britain in the 1920's.
A place where people find recipes to give to servants to cook for them, and cover all their food with aspic.
There are suggestions for what to serve to a hunting party, and what to feed people when you are entertaining guests at Christmas, or at your house in town, and many other suggestions.
I am on a paleo, no seeds, nuts, grains, or dairy diet so there was not one recipe in here that I could eat, but that wan't the point of the book for me.
This review was deleted following Amazon's purchase of GoodReads. The review can still be viewed via LibraryThing, where my profile can be found here.I'm also in the process of building a database at Booklikes, where I can be found here.If you read/liked/clicked through to see this review here on GR, many thanks.
Witty and fun. Published in 1922, Agnes Jekyll writes humorously and instructs us on the proper meals for various occasions. I enjoyed reading the recipes, but most enjoyed her use of quotes. I love this one of hers as she brought the book to a close - "...it is better to turn off the tap whilst yet there is water in the cistern"Fun book from the Persephone collections.
Extremely interesting historical document from a time when every well-equipped cook in England had a salamander and a marmite pot within reach. Recipes include the truly disgusting (calf’s head in aspic) as well as the merely perverse (camembert in aspic).
641.5 J479 2008
Loved it. A charming glimpse into a vanished way of life.
