https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248483.Austenland
I only like the BBC version, with Colin Firth as Mr. Darcy and Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth Bennett.
The actors spit out their lines in Gilmore Girls fashion, important scenes are entirely cut out, and then two minutes are devoted to watching Kiera Knightly spin on a swing.
The Colin Firth...I mean Mr. Darcy, who beams at Elizabeth while she's turning pages for his sister, Georgiana, at the piano (you know this scene too).
The movie is one of my favorites, so I was so excited to learn that it was based on a book!
Unfortunately, this is one of the rare cases where I enjoy the movie more than the book.
Movie Jane was a raging Austen fangirl and just a tad pitiful, which was totally relatable and made me root for her.
Book Jane seemed to have her life more or less together, so it wasn't as satisfying an experience.
Still a pleasant read and I totally want to visit Austenland, but I think I would have enjoyed it more if I had read this before watching the movie.
I cannot pick up a good book and put it down, I must read it’s entirety before I can rest.
I haven’t read any of her books, and while I enjoyed some of the movies based on them, I hesitate to admit I’d felt they were dry and hard to follow at times.
Phil doesn’t mind in any way, that I love reading.
I knew if I worked quickly I could have time to begin the book before heading home, and how wonderful a thing- to read without any interruptions.
Because Jane Hayes, the main character, is me except that she gets to live out my fantasy and gets the happy ending only found in Austen novels.Jane is in her early 30s, in a job she likes but does not love, convinced she must embrace her spinsterhood.
If I were the main character, there couldn't be so many chapters; only First Love, Boyfriend #6, Guy Between #6 and 7, #7, #10, and maybe Guy After #12 would work in my story (read the book: you'll get how sad that is).
I read this book all the way through only because I love Jane Austen, and because the concept of the book was quirky and irresisistible.
It kind of felt like eating an entire bag of cotton candy.
But the author of this book seems to have written mostly children's books before, and this struck me as a children's book ...
And not even a well-written children's book.
The dialogue in spots was read-out-loud bad and the main character was flat and just not believable.
It was cute and I at least felt a little bit of payoff for finishing the book.
I can't believe I just gave one star to a Shannon Hale book.
Never thought that would happen.Review originally posted here.I really like Shannon Hale's books.
I almost feel bad about this because I do really really like Shannon Hale's other books.
Men tend to run screaming scared from crazy women.Irony: Jane is exactly the sort of woman Jane Austen was making fun with her books.
Actually, Shannon Hale can just write better than this period.
Honestly, if someone gave me this book to read without telling me who wrote it I never would have believed it to be Shannon Hale.
Austenland has an irresistible premise for me: a vacation getaway in England for ladies who can’t get enough of Mr Darcy or other Jane Austen heroes and want to pretend to live in her world for a few weeks.
Jane isn’t wealthy, at all, but she really wants the Austen Experience.Some people are better at the whole Regency-immersion thing than others.
Something REAL, she thinks, but is that even possible in Austenland?It’s a light, fun contemporary romance, with enough Austen to it to tickle my fancy.
I read this book by Jane Austen at an early age and have loved historical romance since then.
Jane cannot break character and must interact with gentleman and other ladies during this time period.Is everyone acting or is anyone real in this Darcy obsessed place?!
She’s getting bored with Whist, walking around the gardens and embroidery!The dialogue was good, the romance was fun, and this was a quick book to read.
I will definitely read the second book in this series because I enjoyed how Shannon Hale weaved this funny and quirky romance set during the Regency times!
2.5 stars -- mostly for the Jane Austen aspect.
Obviously if you're not a huge Austen fan, this book will not be that amazing.
It's more fun if you're just as obsessed with Mr. Darcy as the main character (ok maybe not to that extent.
She was really intense).
Some of the characters were a bit annoying and the premise is kind of silly, but the story still has enough endearing moments to make it worthwhile.
The book is a short, fast read.
But I'd honestly recommend just watching the movie instead because the stories are pretty similar aaaand you get this:
33-year old Jane Hayes is single and obsessed with "Pride and Prejudice" Mr. Darcy (just like you are, admit it, otherwise you wouldn't be reading this review).
She inherits a 3-week vacation to "Austenland" - an English estate where guests get a taste of Austen-time living (and maybe romance) with the help of local actors.
In the end, you fail to understand even if this Austenland trip is helpful or not: does it help you to cure your Darcy addiction by exposing the dullness of 19th-century living?
The narrator of this book couldn't do English accent to save her life!
The main character is obsessed with Jane Austen's writings and particularly with the BBC version of Pride and Prejudice starring Colin Firth (If you haven't seen it you can borrow mine and if you don't want to see it then believe me this book is not for you.) The book is stuffed full of Jane Austen's best lines and references to her timeless characters.
they clash with Jane Hayes modern world in such a funny way (example: "Jane announced to the empty room, 'if you're listening, Big Brother, I refuse to be Fanny Price.'') When reading other reviews of this book....
A true knowledge and love of the novels that spawned the fantasy lifts Austenland above its chick-lit peers.The fabulous conceit of the novel is that there's a Regency-era mansion in England that hosts an exclusive vacation experience for wealthy customers.
Visitors dress in period clothes and live a period life for three weeks, interacting with actors and (they hope) having a little Austen-style romance.
A wealthy, eccentric relative sends Jane Hayes to Pembrook Park, hoping it will cure her of her Darcy-lust and enable her to get on with her life.
Austenland is a lovely little book, totally satisfying, with just enough substance.
This book was horrendous, certainly not worth anyone's time to read it.
This book was basically Bridget Jones, minus any snarkiness, and with a huge dose of sincerity.
Horrendous.
(I loved Bridget Jones, but it was bearable/lovable BECAUSE of its snarkiness and level of self awareness).
Worst of all, it's set in a current day Jane Austen camp, where losers play at being in a Jane Austen novel, complete with actors played to court them.
And of course, the protagonist of this novel falls in love with the Mr. Darcy type actor.
I was really disappointed in this book.
This is such a fun book. I love Jane Austen and got a kick out of Hale's creation of "Austenland". Laugh out loud funny at some points. I love the movie and after watching a few times decided to do a reread of the book. Love the movie adaptation, it brought the characters to life.Originally read May of 2009Reread June of 2016Content: Mild innuendo and sexual humor
The movie was so much fun... so how could the book be so sleep-inducing and the writing atrocious?Shannon Hale's worst work for certain. She's better with stories for children or teens.
I'm generally scornful of those who look down their nose at certain renditions of Austen's arguably most-loved book.
Anything that centers on a love for Austen gets a thumbs up in my opinion.This ended up being very much a chick-lit book.
But it was fun, it was based on a love of all things Austen and Darcy (though Captain Wentworth really gives Darcy a run for his money) and what's not to like about that?
Jane's character was basically the same as the book...silly, vapid, uber girly and indecisive, and really not someone I can relate to...except for the fact that we share an obsessive love for fictional men.
I saw the movie first and loved it and the book was just as fun. The ending of the movie is different than the book but no less fulfilling. If you're a fan of one you'll really like the other.
Jane is such a funny and relatable character and I was rooting for her from the start.
She is obsessed with Jane Austen's works and the worlds within them, and because of that can never seem to find real-life love.
This book explores the "what if" of that obsession, and takes it to a whole new, somewhat unhealthy level.
Soon though, the book takes a hasty turn down junky romance lane.
Along with love triangles and games, comedy relief characters, and a poorly fitted plot, Jane discovers that sometimes living with an obsession can be a dangerous thing, especially when you can't stop comparing fantasy to real life.
If you enjoy reading light comedy romances, then Austenland is a suitable choice.
I would strongly encourage anyone and everyone to read her other works, and enjoy!
Jane Hayes is obsessed with Mr. Darcy.
When Aunt Carolyn passes away she leaves Jane an all expense paid vacation to Pembrook Park, a resort that lets its guests live like the characters of an Austen novel.
Jane has decided to use the vacation as the milestone.
Once she has had her fun she will put Mr. Darcy behind herself, forever.Being myself, slightly obsessed with Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice, I couldn’t help but be sympathetic for Jane.
As far as the story I really enjoyed it!
It is a bit of a romance, but that made me enjoy it all the more!
Yup that we do.. Can't seem to get enough of Austen and all things Darcy.This simpering piece of banality though?Do yourself a favour.Swipe left. one star
Our main character is Jane, and her eccentric and very wealthy great aunt (or something) has left her one bequest in her will: a three week stay at a secretive (and expensive) place called Austenland.
You go in for three weeks and live like you're in the Regency, with a fake name (and age, if you want, though props to Jane for not letting them change her age, which would have made her an unmarried spinster back then) and everything.
Part of the reason I feel the premise is wasted is that Jane is so full of contempt for the whole endeavor, especially at the beginning.
Old benefactor lady discovers this and (because she is rich and apparently totally understands such obsessions) buys her a three week treat in Austenland- an English 'pretend' resort (disguised as an old manor house) where everyone speaks and acts as if they were back in Regency Era. By everyone, I mean rich Americans who lo-oved P&P and can afford the price of the place.The girl feels lonely and dejected amongst all the actors\holiday makers\rich regulars - and because she is a wannabe-Elizabeth, she, of course, hates the resident Darcy (in all his moody, cold and in-spurts-emotional glory) from the instant she sees him.
If you are a fan of the works of Jane Austen, and particularly of the Jennifer Ehle/Colin Firth - starring mini-series of Pride and Prejudice, then an opportunity to spend three weeks vacation in a manor in England, live action role playing as an Austenesque heroine is a dream come true.
Since this is an expensive proposition, (the home, the clothes, the food, the staff of actors, the horses even) our heroine Jane Hayes is lucky enough to receive such a trip from a great aunt who wishes to both indulge Jane and shake her out of her romantic fixation of Firth's Darcy.If, after the proceeding paragraph you're thinking "what a perfect Fantasy Island plot", you're going to love this as much as I did.
When a wealthy great-aunt dies knowing her secret, Jane inherits an all-expenses-paid trip to a Jane Austen fantasy land, an English country estate where electronic devices are confiscated and everyone adopts a Regency facade for three weeks.
To be fair, I tend to get irritated by most Hollywood movies starring characters like Jane -- thirtysomething yuppies yearning for romance and expensive weddings -- and I know that many people love them.
If you're hoping for another Princess Academy or Book of a Thousand Days, then Austenland is likely to disappoint.
Despite my love of all things Austen (and the 1995 miniseries version of Pride & Prejudice in particular, which, let’s admit, is what this particular book is all about), I had no intention of reading Austenland until I saw the movie.
Lonely Jane Hayes receives a bequest from her aunt to spend three weeks in Austenland and live in the Regency world that obsesses her.
And I loved Mr. Nobley.
Definitely a must-read for every Janeite!
— Tasha Brandstatterfrom The Best Books We Read In September: http://bookriot.com/2015/10/01/riot-r...
How can i express my love for this book? This book is so much more than i anticipated!! Jane's list of 'boyfriends',her endless list of rejections,her crazy obsession with Mr.Darcy..well these things are me!! This book is one of my soulmate-books!!! <33 I can't even review this properly. I'm just going to tell you that if you love Jane Austen then you definitely should read this!!! A truly enchanting book that i've read in one freaking day!!! LOVED IT!!! ♥ PS: where is my ticket to Austenland?????
Austenland was a delight to read and one of the best of the Chick Lit genre that I've read so far. Plenty of laughs and a happy ending, what more could you ask for?
As the witty heroine's female counterparts -- desperate for escape from their mundane lives -- twittered about, being the wealthy, aging losers they were, I couldn't help but think of an offensive bumper sticker I once saw: "Men age like wine.
Women age like milk." Really, why must middle-aged women be a joke?
Also, I thought the BBC(?) series, "Regency House" had a similar aim: place modern women in an environment that is romantic yet oppressive to women.
Both are entertaining, if you were to pick one, go with "Regency House." (view spoiler)[ And the lover rushing onto the plane at the last minute?
Wealthy Great-Aunt Carolyn figures out Jane’s dark secret and arranges a three-week vacation for Jane at an exclusive English resort where women get to live out their fantasies as Regency-era ladies of good standing.
The book is best when it doesn’t overthink things, and Jane is just allowed to enjoy her Austen-esque adventure without too much philosophizing.
This applies to the reader, too: this book is perfect for those times when all you’re looking for is a few hours of mostly mindless diversion, a time to be alone with some bonbons, some chocolate and a little light romance.
