https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335262.How_to_Draw_What_You_See
The book starts with exercises on how to breakdown a scene or object into its underlying shapes, and even the horizontal, vertical, and curved lines that make up those shapes.
The book also discusses drawing/painting outdoors (which I really enjoying) and working with different media.
Before reading this book I thought those techniques were 'cheating'; I have since discovered that if it is your work, you can use any techniques you like and that even seasoned artists use these tricks, but it was from Reyna that both are good practice.
Overall, a wonderful book to have on the shelf (and to be used) by any artist.
I thought it'd be fun to take drawing lessons together, but the instructor isn't very good at explaining WHY we are doing the various exercises that he gives to us.
(Hopefully you have access to a better instructor.)Part One of this book covers 19 lessons which are progressive projects that build skill and confidence.
This section had less instruction, but I think it's mainly intended to introduce the idea of "drawing" using other media.Overall, I felt that this book was very helpful and developed my skill at creating realistic-looking drawings.
This is a must read for a beginner in drawing.
Once someone wants to draw on a higher level than scribbles, doodles, and badly done 2-d characters, they begin to look for instruction books - and learn many of them are useless.
They kinda go "step 1, add these 3 lines.
Step 2, add these 3 lines and look at the edges.
Once you've gone through this, both reading the pages AND doing the exercises, you will have the foundational knowledge of information (shape rules, perspective, light/shadow, etc) and workmanship (you will learn your strengths and areas you need to improve, which means you will be able to get the best use out of instruction - instead of "mister artist, help me draw" you can say "fellow artist, can you help me improve my use of sfumato to produce more realistic drawings?
I found the "lessons" incredibly hard to follow and while I understand that the author wanted you to draw everyday objects, presumably because that's what you see, the actual objects were extremely boring.One thing that I did take away from the book was regarding drawing straight lines which I had never really thought about before. That was an interesting lesson. But I never could get past the third or fourth because I didn't understand what I was "supposed" to do.
I could never draw anything that looked real until I read this book. At the ripe old age of...well, long past my high school days, now I can draw a chair that looks like a chair, a tree that looks like a tree. I didn't instantly turn into an expert artist, but no more misshapen mutant drawings! For me this is kind of miraculous, as I had always believed I lacked the skill. I highly recommend this book for people who have tried to learn how to draw with other methods that didn't work for them.
I’m not done with this book, mostly because it’s a manual with exercises. However, it’s been a good guide for someone like me who has been guideless my entire life. The exercises and explanations do really help
No doubt it would be more useful to a beginner, and it was nice to have some of my basic principles reinforced, but -- not to be arrogant or anything -- I do know how to draw a cube.
Yeah, it comes off, but not ALL of it -- certainly not all of the compressed stuff.) I hope to attend an "Intro to Different Mediums" class at a nearby art center to make up for this.
^^Overall not a bad book; a little longwinded in the text, but certainly better than the awful "How to Draw Cartoons" type of book you'll find at your local library.
My Christmas present this year :)A good starter for drawing/ painting. I used to draw/ paint a lot as a kid. Now wanting to pick it up again and to learn it properly. I intend to exclusively use sketching apps on tablet computers now, but that shouldn't make a difference as far as learning from this book goes.
If you're a beginner in the arts and drawing figures, this a very good entry level guide. But I'm more of an intermediate so I really didn't get muchbfrom this book. And most of the examples and shapes are EXTREMELY DULL.
Accurate lessons I like how this helps me under stand techniques in drawing make it realistic. This shows me where to improve me art from where I am to where I need to go.
Great reference book. Just read thrugh didn't follow the excercises. Will come back and work with the book
A must read(and do) to all beginners interested in art.

Excellent book. I might try and buy it if I can it. Everything comes down to cubes, spheres, cones and cylinders in the end.
Very useful, plus it feels good in the hand, bound well enough to lie flat on the workbench.

I loved the simplicity of the instruction. It was perfect for the beginner.
An interesting book for the beginning artist. Not much depth for a more experienced artist.
This is an older book--1972--but the author does a good job of explaining the basics of drawing.
