https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/938105.Scaramouche
Andre-Louis is very fond of de Kercadiou’s niece Aline, so when he finds out she’s planning on accepting a proposal from the Marquis de la Tour d'Azyr for practical reasons, not love, he’s deeply disappointed.
As a player, his chief role is as Scaramouche, a clown character who’s also a schemer.
The hand of fate keeps bringing Andre-Louis back into contact with de la Tour d'Azyr until the tension-filled finale.
I enjoyed Scaramouche more than I expected: It’s a quick-paced story, and Sabatini manages to combine adventure and romance with some truly insightful writing.
At the dawn of the French Revolution, when Aristocrats are about to tumble down into the toxic precipice, there lived in the village of Gavrillac, Brittany, with his Godfather, Andre-Louis Moreau.
A young lawyer of unknown origin, now, but earlier when the infant Andre-Louis was brought there, Quentin de Kercadiou, Lord of that settlement, announces that he is the "Godfather", the people are amused.
Andre- Louis ( "he was born with a gift of laughter and a sense that the world was mad"), seeks revenge as the result of the arrogant Marquis de la Tour d' Azyr, killing Philippe in an uneven duel.
Thanks to him André-Louis received a good education and became a lawyer.
This book is more character based (André-Louis' that is) than action based.
Please do not get me wrong, André-Louis is a great character with equally great development, but somehow almost all the turbulence of the French Revolution happened behind the scenes.
Still André-Louis' outlook on life and events is always great and while there was not much excitement until the last third of the book I was never bored - even at the times when plot was moving with the speed of a dying turtle.
He finds safety with a travelling troupe of comedic actors and becomes the buffoonish character of Scaramouche, all the while being pursued by treachery, romance and that ever inevitable Revolution that he so carelessly sparked.This is the best book I've read all year.
There is a deftness to anything André-Louis puts his mind to and it seems that he cares for little except the one thing he is concentrating on, whether it be vengeance or playing the fool in a travelling theatre.Now, let us speak of why I have not given this five stars.
He was born with a gift of laughter and a sense that the world was mad.” One of the best opening lines I've ever read!I'm sure this will end up being one of my favourite (re)reads of the year.A fast paced read that seamlessly merges André-Louis story with real history and leaves you wanting to read more of both. The style is romantic, but the romance(s) are of the realistic sort. (view spoiler)[ I love that André-Louis is shown having more than one love (hide spoiler)] and that he is a very fla
He was born with a gift of laughter and a sense that the world was mad.”
One of the best opening lines I've ever read!I'm sure this will end up being one of my favourite (re)reads of the year.A fast paced read that seamlessly merges André-Louis story with real history and leaves you wanting to read more of both.
(view spoiler)[ I love that André-Louis is shown having more than one love (hide spoiler)] and that he is a very flawed, self-aware hero.
His story and adventures were totally fascinating.Since I remember loving Captain Blood even more, I am eager to get to a reread of that!
It doesn’t quite have the same level of intricate plotting as the latter, and I will never give pride of place to any but Monsieur le Comte, but it is still an awesome read filled with exciting ups and downs as we follow the trials and triumphs of the title character aka Andre-Louis Moreau.
I really think his work on this added to my already superlative enjoyment of the text itself.Given that this is a classic I imagine that many already know the plot, at least in broad strokes: Andre-Louis Moreau is a bastard of no name, taken in as the “godson” of the local seigneur of the village of Gavrillac (amidst the knowing glances and whispers of the locals).
"From the Robe to the Buskin, and now from the buskin to the Sword! What will be the end of you I wonder"  It is always a gamble to re-read your childhood favourites. Lately I'v had a couple of bad hits while trying to revoke the passion towards a few books that I worshipped as a child. Scaramouche, is one of those titles. Without going into the details of the book, I am happy to conclude that after more than a decade I have a better understanding of this book. This is a story of swashbuckling
The last time I read the book the audacity acts of valour of our Hero, appeared fascinating and even memorable.
It almost appeared that Andre-Louis felt that he was entitled to be more intelligent and be better at things than others.
This time around, the book felt more realistic with my some level of cognizance of nuances of human nature.
Just people, acting according to societal norms and behaviour expected from them.I will give a solid 4 stars to the book, it was an extremely satisfying read.P.S: This was the book which aroused my undying curiosity and fascination with  Fencing.
Alas, am doomed to ever learn it myself.P.P.S: I read the book alternating between the audiobook and the ebook.
Seminal novels have a curious tendency of being very much unlike the genres they inspire. It's something I've explored before, in  The Lord of the Rings  (fantasy),  The Virginian  (western), and  The Moonstone  (mystery), and Scaramouche definitely resembles the latter two in how they stray from what we might expect.Firstly, we have an unusually introspective, complex protagonist. Much less the dashing hero, we are shown a doubting cynic, a recluse who sees the cruel inequality of the world and
Perhaps you, like me, had a little stuffed bear named for the old miser, Pantalone.But even a cave-dweller who had never heard of the Commedia, and did not recognize it in Pagliacci, Punch, and Pantos could derive amusement from the ways Sabitini explores it.
His is not precisely a scholarly analysis, but more of a playful jaunt through the style, relating its plots and characters to the overblown melodramas which politics and social status inevitably produce.At length he leaves the Commedia behind, and we are treated to an amusing view of the different forms and schools of fencing, and of its vital place in a culture of duelists--the ideal culture for a swashbuckling tale.
Yes, I get that this is a gothic adventure novel and characters are projections and fantasies and meant to represent things and not be entirely realistic, but it is hard to really get into the suspenseful, *gasp, shock, awe!* aspect of the book if you never feel the slightest anxiety for the hero's safety.
The character tries to excuse this Mary Sue-ism in the last ten pages of the book, by saying that he's not really perfect because he's ended up running away from every good situation he's made for himself.
The unnamed narrator, who uses the device of compiling the story through many of André-Louis' own writings, sometimes interposes himself to show the prejudices plaguing the hero as well as to undercut the protagonist's claims of indifference.A second bias I had against the novel at the start was the belief that, being an old swashbuckling novel, it would be light on theme.
In this, Scaramouche is no worse than many or most novels, but given the work's sensitivity to notions of class, a modern reader almost can't help but wish Sabatini had turned his nuanced gaze to issues of gender.Ultimately, though, the story, with its rich sense of drama, endeared the book to me.
Really sorry that it's taken me so long to read this engaging historical romance played out against the background of the French Revolution.Filled with engaging characters it's a swashbuckling tale delivered with wonderful atmosphere. Many reviews already on offer. For a "free ebook" I had no issues at all with the quality of this edition. Time well spent.
Όταν ο Έρολ Φλιν συνάντησε το "Τόλμη και γοητεία". Μια σάχλα και μισή. Είπα να διαβάσω κάτι ελαφρύ κι ευχάριστο. Καλά να πάθω. ΥΓ Αυτό που μέσα στον χαμό της Γαλλικής Επανάστασης οι πρωταγωνιστές λύνουν τα γκομενικά τους, είναι πραγματικά η λογοτεχνική ενσάρκωση του ρητού: "Εδώ ο κόσμος χάνεται και το μπιιιιιιπ χτενίζεται".Ρε ούυυυυυυυστ. Ξούτου. Μπλιαχ.
Written in the 1920s but set directly before the French Revolution, this is the story of a young lawyer from the provinces, Andre-Louis.
When the Marquis de La Tour d'Azyr viciously and cold-bloodedly kills Andre-Louis's best friend, a naive priest, Andre swears vengeance.
The corrupt system of laws is no help, and Andre is turned from his home and profession for his trouble-making.
In each guise, he heaps another humiliation upon the Marquis, until finally 1792 is upon them, and blood must be spilt.This is a book filled with duels, rhetoric, mob violence and lots and lots of clever dialog*.
I have enjoyed many classics this year and Scaramouche is one of those gold nuggets not a lot of people know about.
Granted, the Count is much longer since Scaramouche is about a third of the size, but both books follow the revenge plot with elements of friendship, swashbuckling sword fights, and of course—love.
To be brief, Scaramouche is about a Frenchman, Andre-Louis Moreau, who plans to avenge the death of his friend, Vilmorin.
He trains to become a swordsman and once he learns all he can from them sets off to avenge his friend.
Honestly, I'm surprised not a lot of people know of this book.
This is a book about a fictional character who lived in Brittany, France, at the time of the French Revolution.
The central character, André-Louis Moreau, is educated as a lawyer.
What is delivered is an adventure story with a dash of love thrown in.
You shouldn't expect to learn about the French Revolution from this book even if Danton, Robespierre and Mirabeau do figure in the story.
You learn perhaps a bit of the conflict between the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie in Brittany at the end of the 1700s.You watch.

You know you want to.So most people recognize "Scaramouche" from Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody, but the original story started in the 17th century in the Italian theater.
You probably recognize him when you see him:In Sabatini's story Andre-Louis Moreau witnesses the death of his best friend at the hands of a nasty aristocrat, and thus dedicates his life to taking down the mean ol bastard.
Then there's plenty of swashbuckling and excitement which all is quite swoon-worthy.There's also a lot of French politics which started out to be interesting but eventually I just wanted more bloodshed because I'm wicked like that.
I've read it several times and like it immensely, it rates among my favorite novels.I'm also a fan of Rafael Sabatini.
He's probably best know today for this books, Captain Blood, The Sea-Hawk and to a slightly lesser extent The Black Swan because of the movies based on or by the same titles as these books.
It can be difficult to track down other of his titles but on the whole he is a reliable writer.I like this book especially (of course I haven't read all his books but I live in hope).
Set in (during) the French Revolution we follow Andre-Louis Moreau who has been cared for raised and schooled by his godfather.
The adventures of the character are divided in three parts that correspond deftly with each of the three different roles André-Louis has to play over the course of two years, when he has to flee his birthplace in Brittany as a result of his best friend´s death in an unjust duel at the hands of Gervais, Marquis de La Tour d'Azyr, which compels him to become a rabble-rousing political orator to antagonise the populace against the region's nobility, the most powerful of which is M.
I just finished and loved to distraction The Beloved Vagabond by William J. Locke. Paragot, the main character, reminded me of the first line in Scaramouche "He was born with a gift of laughter and a sense that the world was mad."
I want to try new (to me) authors and books in 2018, and this is a delightful group to do that with.I can also use this book for the Book For All Seasons challenge, reading a book set during a revolution!
The dialogue was very well done and moved the action forward, even though the beginning, with the necessity of laying the groundwork of politics and philosophy that would spark and fuel the revolution and hence, the driving conflict between Andre Louis and his nemesis, the Marquis de la Tour d’Azyr, dragged a bit.
Và hành trình dấn thân vào sự điên rồ của thế giới để xác lập lại công lý của chàng trai này được đặt giữa bối cảnh một nước Pháp đang có sự chuyển mình mang tính lịch sử về phương diện chính trị, nơi Quý tộc đối đầu với Nhân dân, nơi Đẳng cấp Thứ Ba đứng dậy đòi lại quyền lợi cho mình, nơi phe bảo hoàng âm mưu đối chọi với những nhà cộng hòa.
Đọc cuốn sách này giúp mình thấu hiểu hơn tình hình chính trị của nước Pháp lúc đó, khi mà như lời một nhân vật trong câu chuyện đã nói, sau đời vua Louis XIV (còn gọi là ông Vua Mặt Trời, Le Roi Soleil) thì chả có ông vua Pháp nào ra hồn cả.
While Sabatini is no Dumas, I still found this incredibly enjoyable and exactly what I've been looking for since I ran out of Musketeers novels to read.
The focus here, though, is on how this history affected the story of Andre-Louis - the man who became Scaramouche - and I was completely drawn in to that story.The study of this character is intriguing.
Modern day readers will easily understand a man who hides his emotions and presents a tough exterior, but in the context of this novel it seems so irrational and causes so much trouble for him that you can't help but feel sorry for him and wonder why he persists.
Like these latter two writers, Sabatini’s novel takes place immediately before and during the early years of the French Revolution, his story ending at the beginning of the Reign of Terror.
Ultimately events at the beginning of the Reign of Terror conspire to force an ultimate confrontation between Moreau and D’Azyr, a sequence of events that reveals Moreau’s parentage and determines his subsequent fate.Without question a lighter novel than the others mentioned above, Sabatini’s work does have its merits.
Hero is the epitome of self-made man who pulls himself up by his own bootstraps, so to speak.
*Historical settingThings I didn't like so much: *No humor*Was a pretty set-to-standard adventure story.
He had almost too much self-control.)Not for a young boy, as it has themes of adultery and debauchery and lots of bloodshed.
And also from the historical perspective surrounding the revolution.
My book is full of stickies, because it did have some really good lines.
That was the thing I didn't like about Sabatini's "Captain Blood" also.
I have another book by him, but it will be a long time before I get to it.

This book just wasn't for me. I really didn't like the author's writing style. I thought the pace was uneven. Too many long political discussions, with some action sequences in between. An OK read.
Thêm môt tac phâm nưa cuôn hut minh tư nhưng dong đâu tiên chi sau Hai van dăm dươi đay biên.
Tinh cơ thây em nay trên tiki pop up quang cao giơi thiêu, ưng ngay tư cai bia nên tâu ngay không cân đoc giơi thiêu.
Vây mơi thây minh liêu!
Nhưng thât sư không hôi hân vi đa tâu em vê!Đoc xong cuôn nay mơi phat hiên ra ban thân cung say mê hinh tương kiêm si va chiêc ao choang tơi nhương nao, va yêu luôn ca anh nam chinh Andre-Louis rôi!
Nhưng thật sự không hối hận vì đã tậu ẻm về!Đọc xong cuốn này mới phát hiện ra bản thân cũng say mê hình tượng kiếm sĩ và chiếc áo choàng tới nhường nào, và yêu luôn cả anh nam chính André-Louis rồi!
Cái plot twist của những chương cuối thật sự không làm mình bất ngờ mấy, vì càng đọc thì càng ngờ ngợ đoán ra được rồi, nhưng vẫn thấy thương cảm thay cho hai người họ, cái mà họ quy cho Số phận đã đẩy họ vào.
Before the reader has had time to settle in, the beloved friend of Monsieur Moreau (soon to be known as Scaramouche) - the pair being young petites bourgeoises with noble dreams of a France committed to liberté, égalité, fraternité - is slain by the haughty and unyielding aristocrat the Marquis de la Tour d'Azyr (one of literature's great antagonists), husband-to-be of Scaramouche's cousin Aline.
His subsequent journeys - fueled by the gross injustice of Tour d'Azyr and a burning desire for revenge - will lead him from itinerant performer to master swordsman in the turbulent Paris of the dawn of the Revolution.Will there be wicked swordplay?
July 2018 reread via audiobook narrated by Simon Vance: 4.5* Vance does an excellent job narrating this classic but the way I listened to it (mostly in the car) prevented me from being as caught up in the story as I have reading the paperback.
Still a rollicking good tale about the last few years leading up to the French Revolution!I loved the 1952 movie with Stewart Granger so much I decided to go to the source & read the book...
The book is amazing!
If you like Dumas's The Three Musketeers or Dickens' Tale of Two Cities, you should read this book.
