https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119730.Without_Conscience
Since I keep obsessing about our American president, trying to decide if the man is indeed a psychopath or merely an elite narcissist, I thought I should seek out an authoritative book on the subject.
He was the first recipient of the lifetime achievement award of the Society for the Scientific Study of Psychopathy in 2005.
I will, however, mention a few things that struck me while reading Hare:1) The psychopath must always be examined by a trained clinical evaluator.
Well, I will be cautious, as Hare advises, and not label our president a psychopath.
Dr. Robert Hare: This book is about psychopaths...Sarah: With hearts of gold?DRH: No, they're pretty heartless, actually.Sarah: Because they need love?DRH: No. They're clinical psychopaths.Sarah: Aw. They must be so sad.DRH: Not really.Sarah: So, basically, what you're saying here is...they'll change?
So...?To me, the real question is, "In dealing with psychopaths, to what extent should we operate within the psychopath's own world paradigm?" My personal opinion is, not at all.* We should not adopt a punitive world view; Nor should we enable them with kindness.
Moral of the story 1: No hope for psychopaths.Moral of the story 2: No hope for me if I get involved with a psychopath.

I was watching Doctor Who yesterday, and the Doctor, ever the optimist, said something like, “people are good, down in their bones”.Well.Nice thought.What about the psychopaths, though?In Without Conscience, Robert Hare posits that there are some 2million psychopaths in the United States (and approximately 20% of the prison population is comprised of psychopaths).
Of course, there are the exceptional serial killer cases like Ted Bundy, but most psychopaths are more banal in their wrongdoing: they just lie and cheat their way through life remorselessly.There seem to be a good few books about psychopaths on the market, but I chose to read this one because it’s written by a psychologist, not a journalist.
Dr. Robert Hare has a theory he calls "psychopathy," that he uses to describes anyone whose behavior doesn't conform to his standards. He has tried for years to get it into the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, the psychiatrists' and psychologists' main reference work. Its editors have rejected Dr. Hare's proposition as being too vague. Still, people will read this and think that their landlord or the guy next to them on the bus is a psychopath. I have read many useful psychological evaluation books. This is most decidedly not one of them.
Oh, you gotta read this. Excellent descriptions and explanation of psychological method. Horrifying interviews. I've met these people and you have, too. On the downside, ain't nuthin we can do about it. Except pack heat, maybe.
For anyone who ever studied Forensic Psychology, Hare is a God and nothing less.
Him and Cleckley are the first ever mentioned in relation to psychopathy and its clinical measurement or diagnosis, as well as any treatment possibility.
I loved every second of this book, not just because it provided me with so much insight into different psychopathic killers that I already knew of, but because it provides statistical data and studies of different crimes that can be done by psychopaths, how their minds tend to work and how difficult it actually is to spot one of them, or even to fully diagnose them.
Totally recommend this to anyone with an interest in forensic psychology or "errors" of the mind.
(Meaning this book is quite readable to the layperson [IE someone like me], though I find that Mr. Hare does seem to have a slight tendency to go into "Professor-Speak" mode at times.)The author seems to be of the belief that psychopaths are born that way, and that there is "no hope" for them [hence the comparison to "The Lucifer Effect", which posits almost the exact opposite, that evil is situation rather than dispositional), and he does not seem to hold out much hope for redemption/rehabilitaton of these people; the best that he offers is advice is spotting/avoiding these people.As a fascinating read into the lives of truly disturbed individuals, this is truly gripping, though (despite his years of experience), I'm not sure I agree 100% with his point-of-view on the subject (just as I didn't agree 100% with the point-of-view of Dr. Zimbardo while reading "The Lucifer Effect.".
Por tanto desconocimiento sobre el asunto es que se siguen viendo tanto casos de violencia doméstica, incluso me he dado cuenta de que en la televisión en programas supuestamente serios cuando se habla de una persona obviamente psicópata se dicen frases como "él cambió" o "fue por las drogas" ¡cuando no tiene nada que ver!.Como sea, hace poco me puse a buscar libros sobre psicopatía, lamentablemente no encontré gran cosa, incluso me enteré de que muy pocos psiquiatras se especializan en el tema, bien, al final conseguí esto que ven aquí y a pesar de que no le tenía mucha fe quedé más que satisfecha con el resultado.Supongo que habrá mejores libros pero "Sin conciencia" no es para nada despreciable, tiene muchos ejemplos, muchas fuentes bibliográficas, y hace mucho énfasis en la personalidad y el modo de pensar del psicópata.
A psychopath acts as though they have no conscience, like they lack a piece that others share and take for granted in others- the ability to imagine how their actions might hurt someone or care about it.
Those missing this piece are always a little apart from society and act accordingly, driven by a cold selfishness, and usually faking human, aka empathic relationships.Some psychopaths are rapists and serial killers, perfectly oblivious to their victims' pain, but some are blithely conducting non-criminal business, but still distributing pain and suffering, as ruthless executives, terrible roommates, miserable spouses or neighbours, and incomprehensibly mean, unfeeling children.There is no "why" in the research yet.
This is a very chilling book by the doctor who defined psychopathy and created the Hare checklist for diagnosing psychopaths.
But it hardly seems useful or truly serving the cause of truthful inquiry to dwell on how horrible psychopaths are, using serial killers as the primary examples, even though Hare himself admits that serial killers are an extreme minority of psychopaths, rather than addressing more interesting and informative questions like how to identify psychopaths and what to do about them.Martha Stout and Jon Ronson cover much the same ground, and while of course they talk about the most spectacular, cruel, and flamboyant psychopaths as well — serial killers, bigamists, con-men, etc.
Scary book, but one that may be of some help should we ever fall prey to a psychopath in our lives.
Psychopaths are probably hard-wired that way from birth which is why treatment (at least so far) cannot change them.
Parents of psychopathic children who recognize the disorder early enough may be able to teach socialization skills that will help them to stay out of serious trouble as they grow up and make their way in the world.

The best the author could do was offer advice on how to spot psychopathic behavior and avoid becoming ensnared in their manipulation.The author uses this book as a platform for promoting the Hare Psychopathy Checklist, a tool for diagnosing psychopathy.
"He knows the words but not the music." [proper review coming soon]
It’s in a everyone’s interest to learn about the people in society who take more out of it than any other group – who take and take, in fact, and never give anything back but grief and pain.Among us these people dwell, devoid of conscience and probably born that way.
After all, there are only three million of them in the United States at latest count.But aside from this "camouflage society," the book mainly addresses the personal ramifications of an encounter with a psychopath.
The world we actually live in makes much more sense when we learn about people who have no conscience and who exploit our trust.
The problem with this book can perhaps be blamed on Hare's acknowledgement in his preface:  i would like to thank (...) and Suzanne Lipsett for showing me how to convert technical material into readable prose.
Yes, it's quite readable (thanks to Suzanne?) but altogether too anecdotal throughout 3/4 or more of the book.
Hare is one of the leading experts on psychopathy, so the semi dumbed-down tone of the book and countless examples of psychopathic behavior taken from popular sources (true crime cases as well as the movies)would be more befitting to a bright young pop science writer than a mature researcher.
An excellent analysis of the much-misunderstood problem that is variously called antisocial personality disorder, sociopathy, or psychopathy, by the clinician who developed the best and most used test to diagnose this condition, the Hare Psychopathy Checklist. Dr. Hare explains what it means to be a sociopath or to be stuck dealing with one, what makes them tick and what to expect from them. Knowledge is power, and the information in this book makes it possible to recognize sociopathic people much more quickly and to avoid being victimized by them.
Hope that Dr. Hare would prepare ten minutes UTube to let everyone know how to recognize psychopaths before they ruin our marriages, homes and businesses. Too much complements and eyes of the snake predator are the best warning signs.I wish I knew that before.
This is THE classic book on psychopathy.
Sin embargo y de acuerdo a Hare definitivamente cualquier psicópata es una persona de quien hay que tener cuidado, la mayoría de ellos son problemáticos, pero sobre todo su delito más común es el de Defraudadores, son especialmente agradables al trato, tienen un ingenio y una enorme capacidad para convencer a todos de lo que sea que digan y lo dicen de tal modo, que la gente les cree, son en pocas palabras muy carismáticos También nos refiere a la psicopatía que se refleja desde la infancia y los muchos actos que cometen los niños psicópatas y que muy bien podríamos confundir con otras enfermedades o bien con una mala educación, nada más lejos de la realidad.Es un libro que me ha resultado, por sobre cualquier otra cosa, muy interesante, está escrito de tal manera que a pesar de tratarse de un estudio de investigación, es muy fácil de comprender y por supuesto que tiene algunos ejemplos de asesinos o delincuentes bastante conocidos.Definitivo no es lo que me esperaba, pero sin duda ha resultado una lectura amena, fácil, comprensible, educativa y sobre todo entretenida.
I always knew that psychopaths were not necessarily serial killers but 'ordinary' people you could meet anytime without realising it.Without conscience included case studies from former patients which were truly terrifying.
There was the sweet blonde hair blue eyed little girl who tried to Kill her baby brother.
The mother who killed her baby who said its OK, I can have another one.
The lady and this man travelled around Europe paid by her.
When she got suspicious he left abruptly.Dr Hare also included a chapter on how to spot a psychopath.
Hare's book is well-written and elegantly structured, achieving a balance between being comprehensible and informative to the layman while still being enlightening to those with a depth of knowledge in the field of psychopathy -- largely because it gathers together a comprehensive look at this mysterious disorder.The first chapter, "Experiencing the Psychopath," brings together anecdotes and excerpts from case studies about what it is like to encounter a psychopath, while chapter 2, "Focusing the Picture," seeks to clarify the issues involved by what we mean when we use the term 'psychopath.' Together, these chapters frame the issue of what we are dealing with and the difficulties on trying to get a handle on it so that systematic research, response -- and treatment -- can begin to be possible."The Profile: Feelings and Relationships" describes the difference in how the psychopathic individual experiences emotion and relationship: notably, there is a lack of capacity for deep affect, mutual relationships, and what we might call real, unselfish love, as well as the presence of grandiosity, glib and smooth (or convincing) speech, deceitfulness, and manipulation of others.
Perhaps more interesting to me, were the implications psychopaths had on ethical theories, law, justice, and religious teachings.
Numerous ethical theories build on assumptions of mutual emotions and natural human inclinations to operate together.
Instead, perhaps we might want to devise theories of cooperation or revisit ethical theories and begin to accommodate for psychopaths.
As such, perhaps we can understand to avoid such assumptions and create more universal ethical theories.
Having said that, these are only fragmented thoughts of mine :)Since the book provide case studies to understand real-life examples of psychopathy, it acts as a teaching tool for self-protection.
Written by Robert Hare, a pioneer and authority of the field, the book is held in high regard by other professionals, and yet is easily understood by the layman.The book explores psychopathy through numerous case studies, most drawn from the criminal world, and also presents the Psychopathy Checklist, the primary diagnostic tool used to assess the disorder.
The book also explores issues of personal significance to Hare; the failure of professionals to properly assess psychopathy, and the failure of existing programs and systems at reforming those affected by the condition.I listened to the audio version of the book, and found the delivery sadly monotonic - to the point that during the less gripping sections of the dialogue, I found my attention waning.
having said this this book really good description behavioral information about psychopathsI especially liked how Dr. Hare describes psychopaths as seeing themselves as the real victims, and their convoluted thinking mechanisms that they use to explain this belief to others.Near the end of the book he explains why therapy doesn't work - because they don't see that they have a problem.
it is us normal people who are the problem.
They feel they are just doing what people should do.
- lolIf you are interested in reading about how the psychopath mind thinks - this is a good book to read
http://conclusionirrelevante.blogspot..."Creo que recomendaría este libro a quien ya teniendo unas nociones preliminares del fenómeno, quisiera profundizar en lo que ya sabe del mismo.
Esto es tanto como recomendar mi plan de acción, lo cual, dicho así, suena un poco prepotente, pero es justo lo ocurrido al hacer el viaje desde la obra de Ronson a la obra de Hare.
Por lo que recomendaría este libro a quien ya tenga unas nociones del trastorno y, además, ya haya pasado el peaje de la obra de Ronson.
En caso contrario, le recomendaría al lector hipotético hacer turismo en territorio Ronson."
Okay, maybe you have to be a psychologist to appreciate this, but I thought it was fascinating. Wait: No, I don't think you have to be a psychologist to appreciate this -- it's just fascinating how nasty and evil people can be! If this kind of thing intrigues you (all you people out there who like to read about real-life serial killers, this is for you!), then don't hesitate to pick up. Again, fascinating!
Because I do believe the book is an important one and the Professor is respected and highly honored....and I can't give it 2.5 stars.
He assumes the guilt of a "certain person" to support an argument who, from what I've read almost everyone believes was not guilty.
Douglas's book The Cases That Haunt Us and Douglas concludes the person is not guilty, he's not the only one.
Now, the argument in this book is that the "person in question" was able due to her being a psychopath to fool "everybody".
Professor Hare completely misstated a fact in the person's background and case.
