https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139864.The_Collected_Poems_of_Frank_O_Hara
Wildly inconsistent as a writer of work worth reading, Frank O'Hara nevertheless penned some of the greatest poems of the midcentury: his fun but urbane verse mixes together self-obsession, pseudo-spontaneity, and chattiness in irresistible ways. From "Having a Coke with You" to "Meditations in an Emergency," the best of O'Hara's poetry seems likely to dazzle readers of past American poets for the foreseeable future, even if his lesser work reads as tedious rather than entertaining.
Oh. I go and the days go by and I drop again.” There are also several words used as polyptotons, “The painting is going on, and I go, and the days go by.” 	Reading this poem made me feel like I was a friend of O’Hara’s and that we were having a conversation about something very intimate to him; of why he is a poet and not a painter.
A good starter kit would be (i) Ave Maria(ii) Myakovsky (of Mad Men fame)(iii) St. Paul and All That(iv) On the Way to the San Remoand (v) Song (Is it dirty),which is harder to Google because so many of O'Hara's poems are called "Song" and it's short anyway so I'll just leave it here:Is it dirtydoes it look dirtythat's what you think of in the citydoes it just seem dirtythat's what you think of in the cityyou don't refuse to breathe do yousomeone comes along with a very bad characterhe seems attractive.
veryhe's attractive as his character is bad.
Getting Up Ahead of Someone (Sun)  is a poem I find myself returning to constantly and with a certain quiet obsessiveness; it captures something I can't quite articulate yet recognize as very fundamental about myself. Its concluding line—"each day’s light has more significance these days"—might very well mean more to me than any other in all of poetry.
Frank O'Hara's poems range from utterly brilliant to utterly pointless, but man, I love him. When I was a wee English undergrad O'Hara made me laugh so much, and was one of the voices that helped me realize that poetry resides as much in the mundane and the absurd as it does in the fantastic and the beautiful.
That is, he found some nice things to say about a poet you wouldn't have thought he'd consider to have any saving graces .The upshot is that he has a peeve against massive "Collected Poems" from dead writers where the good work is buried among limitless juvenilia and failed experiments.
When O’Hara was lucky, he was very lucky, because his method could not help but fail most of the time."One does have to admire this congenial sourpuss's ability with a phrase.I happen to love my massive , Donald Allen edited Collected Poems of Frank O'Hara , and think that Logan is being obtuse for the sake of not diminishing his reputation for taking iconic writers to task, but all the same, enjoy the review.
One of the greatest, and one of those poets who you're glad wrote so much because even his mediocre poems have a verve and spontaneity and humor lacking in so many "great" poems by "great" poets. Reading him is also a freeing experience, for the poet or non-poet, because his omnivorous interest in the world is enlivening and free-spirited and can open all the little spigots of imagination in one's mind causing an invigorating flowing sensation through the body which can inspire one to take a wide-eyed walk or write a poem.
If you don't yet know Frank O'Hara I ENVY YOUR discovery! If this book isn't soon taught in every high school in America I'm going to... tell them! Something! Anyway, THIS is the collection to have of his work. I find that the selected poems don't have ALL the poems I LOVE by him, and why bother having a selected when you can have the WHOLE MEAL of extraordinary work of an extraordinary life!?With MUCH respect,CAConradhttp://CAConrad.blogspot.com
If you haven't read O'Hara, do it. Fun, fun poetry. A contemporary of Kerouac and Ginsburg, but I really prefer him to either of those beatniks. He is irreverent, writes about all sorts of things from movie stars to life in Manhattan. I read him first back in college - when I was in San Francisco, I visited the famed City Lights bookstore and bought his collected poems there. Another poet I would rank as "accessible" - but don't let that fool you, accessible isn't necessarily simple... O'Hara is an original.
What is more beautiful than nightand someone in your armsthat's what we love about artit seems to prefer us and stays
Oooh, my name is Frank O'Hara and I like to write most of my poems on the go, on the back of important papers or on napkins or on anything that could be lost in an instant. After I die, my friends will turn my apartment inside out to try to find the poems that make up this book. Don't forget in between the couch cushions!
The most inspiring with his poetry, in my opinion, is his way of describing the social landscape and activity in Manhattan, the jazz music and his telephone calls from his friends.
When reading his poetry one gets a feeling of being a part of his life, as his poetry generally is autobiographical, describing the life he lived in New York, and O'Hara himself has said that:"What is happening to me, allowing for lies and exaggerations which I try to avoid, goes into my poems.
Even though O'Hara did not make his poetry beautiful intentionally, there is something about his way of describing the life around him, in so simple, but still advanced forms, that it really touches you.
It's hard to argue with lines like "As they're putting up the Christmas trees on Park Avenue/I shall see my daydreams walking by with dogs in blankets/put to some use before all those coloured lights come on."I often turn to this book when I need shot of whimsey or inspiration. It's a rich source for me.
If you happen to connect with this work you'll be devoted for life. There are those who don't and view his work as gibberish. I have nearly canonized him.
Stunning, vibrant, incredibly moving poems that I related to so closely. Felt like this was written just for me.
the sunlight steams through the coldmaking a glass melancholy into soundping ping ping where are you
Don’t test me on the content, context, significance or meaning of the brick of poems consolidated within the first 500 pages of The Collected Poems of Frank O’Hara. To be honest, for a change maybe, these many, many telling refractions from the intellect and emotions of Frank O’Hara land mostly beyond me, like poetry that’s any good usually does. I know it’s good because I spent more than a month working through these thousands of lines, and I have no patience for doing that unless some reward is coming to me, even if I can’t understand what that is.
jhgjhgjgjhgjhgjhgjhghjgggj
Frank O'Hara er sammen med hamburger og cola noe av det beste USA har produsert noensinne
frank o hara is truly one of my favorite wordsmiths, reading him energizes me and drains me, makes me want to run and crawl simultaneously. the earth had frank and i'm grateful for that.
In "A Step Away from Them", he begins walking the streets of New York, on a lunch break, acknowledging but remaining disconnected from the people he encounters (as we do).
He passively mentions the death of three friends before concluding with "my heart is in my pocket, it is Poems by Pierre Reverty".
This specific poem is to me a good example of O'Hara's charm.
But this isn't even a poem about death.
He's simply on a lunch break and those are his thoughts on this specific afternoon.
that just seemed like such an apt way to begin; i don't know if i feel like actually writing a review...howabout: one thing i value highly in artists is that they seem cute and nice, like they're probably good, honest people and good friends to those that know them (maybe it's the quaker blood that runs through the Schrock veins).
maybe most of all i just value that the art feel very personal.frank o'hara wrote poems for and about his friends, and that's really cute and nice, so right there he's already got like a B+ in my book.
Many post-romantic writers have written on the honest portrayal of emotions, the genuine expression of sentiment without the loss of tasteful literary craft.
Of all the cottony old men who dispense this dogma, O'Hara is to my taste the only one to carry through with his promise.
From his poems about his many hometowns, to his early sexual experiences, to his artist friends and favorite writers, it's in this volume especially that O'Hara seems to spill his heart out, and the effect is humbling.
And he was not above the cinematic, the gorgeous, the common sense of tight trousers, wanting to be "at least as alive as the vulgar."I also remembered him from the time, somewhere in the middle there, when he became associated with his poem about suicide, entitled 'Poem," perhaps seen as a suitably serious poem on a suitably serious subject, as opposed to those even he called his "I do this..." poems.Though he addressed that subject, and death as reality and personification suitably often, even once offering poetry as his second choice in alternatives, that particular poem wasn't, and it isn't, a particularly fair representation of the texture of his insistence upon being excessive and alive.To the extent one can take his various declarations as "serious," neither fame nor role-modelship, particularly of the political variety, was among his aspirations.
In college I became obsessed with the poem "Why I Am Not A Painter": Why I Am Not a PainterI am not a painter, I am a poet.Why?
Well,for instance, Mike Goldbergis starting a painting.
"You have SARDINES in it.""Yes, it needed something there.""Oh." I go and the days go byand I drop in again.
I drop in.
"Where's SARDINES?"All that's left is justletters, "It was too much," Mike says.But me?
One day I am thinking ofa color: orange.
Days go by.
It's twelve poems, I callit ORANGES.
And one day in a galleryI see Mike's painting, called SARDINES.
Even though he was well-schooled in the history of poetry, art and culture, there is no sense that he ever looked back to earlier works for reassurance of his own art.
He is not a quotation-oriented poet the way many moderns and postmodern writers rely on the works of their predecessors for ratification.
He had a classic sense of who he was and why he was writing, and possessed one of the surest hands in literature.
Every poem does not seek Olympus, but every one possesses a sense of the man, even as a rough sketch by Van Gogh bears his mark.
I'm not sure if it's just because I've read a lot of, and about, O'Hara since I read the Selected Poems, but this monster seemed much more readable.
Even if I prefer "collected" volumes that sequence the poems as they were originally collected -- in O'Hara's case in books like Meditations in an Emergency and Lunch Poems -- I'm not sure how useful that would be for O'Hara's work.
I think the first part of the book is especially rough, but around 1957 or so, and until about 1960, O'Hara was generally on fire.One thing that probably enhanced my experience was keeping the notes bookmarked and following those closely as I read the poems.
I-do-this-I-do-that-I-do-it-all-in-manhattanFrank O'Hara died on Fire Island after getting run over by a beach buggy.
He was trying to do with words what his pals -- folks like Pollok, Jasper Johns and De Kooning -- were doing with the visual arts.
The result is something nearing pop poetry: stuff about partying and movies and fucking and celebrities.Irreverance aside, his work can be surprisingly powerful -- introspection without all that angst -- like a prettier way to say how you think most all the time.If you're an academic type, or just hate them, try reading his "manifesto"  Personism For other similar poetry (though not so similar) try  Koch or  John Ashbery
"What his work has always had to say to me, I guess, is to be more keenly interested while I'm still alive.
And perhaps this is the most important thing art can say."It took me a little over a year to finish reading this, as he's really only suitable for reading while you're in certain moods.
But I think this is the last time I read a huge collected works instead of a collection at a time, as it was meant to be read when it was originally published.
Oldenburg had illustrated O'Hara's poem "Image of the Buddha Preaching".
That copy had the second of the dust jackets done for the first edition.
The first dust jacket was a Larry Rivers print of a naked O'Hara - the same one that was used for the later (first) selected poems - and was considered lewd and was withdrawn.
I now have a copy with that dust jacket, the most expensive book I ever bought ($250.00).
I give this one only four stars because it is a Collected and so not ever poem is as good as one might want.
