https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10878.The_Great_Shark_Hunt
Quite a lot to wade through, but if you're anything like me, you'd probably rather hear it from a drug-addled maniac with no claim to objectivity than some shill for the New York Times.HST was a remarkable thinker and writer, not only for pioneering a whole new form of journalism, but for the sheer range of seemingly contradictory qualities that embodied his life and work.
Calling bullshit on Americans and their elected representatives from every wavelength of the political spectrum, HST succeeded in bringing a certain measure of impartiality back to journalism when it was needed most, ironically through his personal investment and immersion in the very stories he covered.
“When the going gets weird, the weird turn pro.”  This collection of HST articles from the 1960s and 70s primarily focused on politics and sports, but it also touched on damn near every topic imaginable, including—thank god!—some of his hilarious (mis)adventures with outrageous amounts of highly illegal substances. While it contained quite a few intelligent insights and arguments, the real joy of reading this lunatic—at least for me—is to take a ride on his incomparably weird and manic waveleng
In a world as weird and cruel as the one we have made for ourselves, I figure anybody who can find peace and personal happiness without ripping off somebody else deserves to be left alone.
And I have learned to live, as it were, with the idea that I will never find peace and happiness, either.
But as long as I know there's a pretty good chance I can get my hands on either one of them every once in a while, I do the best I can between high spots.”
All throughout Thompson never fails to shine a critical eye on the American expats and businessmen who never fail to embrace the inherent racism of former colonial masters, despairing about Peruvians inability to realize that the gringos are only trying to help and refusing to realize that riding in on a white horse to save them is just a rebranding of the same paternalism that South Americans have been dealing with since the Conquistadors decided to save by slaughter.This is by no means a must-read, and I definitely found myself lagging through many of the articles, but for anyone who enjoys Thompson's personal brand of biting rhetoric it is an amusing and informative look at the works of a man who was never afraid to say exactly what he was thinking at a given time and who never failed to be shocked and appalled by the perversion of his American Dream by moneyed interests playing upon a populace's fears.
For one thing, while he started his career as a sportswriter, it doesn't seem that he wrote about sports by choice any more often (nor any less insightfully) than, say, David Foster Wallace, which would make his one great topic politics- or to put it more narrowly, Richard Nixon.
One of Thompson's favorite drugs was speed, and when he describes riding a motorcycle too quickly and reaching what he calls The Edge, he is looking for the same thing he is in just about every story he writes- a buzz, adrenaline, transcendence.That's part of what makes him such a relatable writer, at least in my view.
I came into reading this really long Thompson collection somewhat accidentally, but it shows that he is an extraordiary journalist with a convincing desire to pursue greater truths - an impression that really outshines the whimsical, drug-obsessed icon that he has been reduced to by the culture at large.
were the greatest enemy of Thompson's lifetime, he said before his death that he would take Nixon over Bush in a moment.
Anyway, he's not really interested in being on the otherside (Democrat, liberal, blahblahblah) and his critiques of Nixon don't feel calculated, just honest.
flush the bugger out with an act of lunatic violence then soak him down with mace and run him naked down Main Street in Aspen with a bell around his neck and black lumps all over his body from the jolts of a high powered "Ball Buster" cattle prod.But old age has either mellowed me or broken my spirit to the point where I will probably not do that -- at least not today, because that blundering dupe in the White House has just plunged me into a deep and vicious hole.
" - The Great Shark Hunt, p.
Thompson defines everything good about journalism, despite extreme subjectivity, rampant decadence and pure mania.
Well, while David Foster Wallace manifests himself as that philosophical and introverted friend who'd rant about all the troubles in the world over online chat, Hunter S Thompson is the friend who'd take that rant and drive it into your eye sockets with the fierce intensity of a drunk preacher.Journalism should be two things, entertaining and informative.
All the weird and wonderful friends of a time long past are summoned by the flowing prose of Hunter S Thompson.
This is the true Hunter S Thompson. Building his legend writing about whatever they throw at him and making it his own. It's easy to forget that despite his public persona, Thompson was a tremendous WRITER who could draw many emotions out of his readers. A personal favorite of mine and a book I never tire of.
I like to load up on mescaline and turn my amplifier up to 110 decibels for a taste of “White Rabbit” while the sun comes up on the snow-speaks along the Continental Divide.” “This sense of “reality” is a hallmark of the Drug Culture, which values the Instant Reward – a pleasant four-hour high – over anything involving a time lag between the Effort and the End.”“For me, that week in Chicago was for worse than the worst bad acid trip I’ve even heard rumors about.
Hunter S.
Thompsonin "Suuri hainmetsästys" (Sammakko, 2010) sisältää valikoiman gonzo-journalismin isän kirjallisia trippejä 1960- ja 1970-luvulta.
Thompsonin persoonallisia tekstejä julkaistiin mm.
Rolling Stonessa ja Playboyssa, ja niiden aiheet käsittelevät mm.
Presidentti Richard Nixon joutuu erityisesti Dr. Gonzon hampaisiin, ja Watergate-skandaalin käsittely kattaakin "Suuren hainmetsästyksen" seitsemästäsadasta sivusta melkoisen osan.Thompsonin nykymaineen taustalla lienee pitkälti Johnny Deppin tähdittämä "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" -elokuva, jota vasten peilattuna kokoelmaan valitut tekstit tuntuvat paikoitellen hyvinkin selväpäiseltä perusjournalismilta.
Happoistakin revittelyä kokoelmaan toki mahtuu, josta erityisen hyvänä esimerkkinä toimivat tietyt Nixonia käsittelevät osuudet sekä Oscar Zeta Acostan, Thompsonin ystävän ja "150-kiloisen samoalaisen asianajajan" vaiheita käsittelevät tekstit.
A little tedious. I think I've overdosed on Thompson. I thought some of his usual outrageousness was out of place and read like he was trying to hard to be crazy. A few good essays. I especially liked the one on Jean Claude Killy.
With all of that in mind, I was recommending to my two sons (21 and 18) that they get their heads around Thompsons's insights (for the first time), and so what's good for the goslings is always good for the gander.
What I found is that history, like all else, is cyclical and people tend to make the same mistakes by offering their devotion to the too-often seductive connivers who arrogantly laugh as they get over on all the "rubes"; seek their personal restitution with a wild swing back toward the opposite end of the moral (and political) spectrum; and then get suckered in yet again to begin the cycle anew.
I only wish the good Doctor were here today to open the National Affairs Desk one more time....
Thompson connects those dots for us, showing how the self-made man who was a drifter, the used car salesman, the firebrand politico, and the sensation-driven, oppression-reinforcing 'mainstream' journalist are all just different brands of the same desperate attempt to avoid relegated to a life of labor.He rides this hustle well, too, even if he cons us into believing that he's doing it because he's disgusted with the grift and not because he's benefitting from it.I won't ignore the racist language in here, though.
It's clear from some of Thompson's earlier pieces that he wants an equal and just society, but some of the ways he casually tosses slurs around will make you uneasy.
The book takes forever to get through because who wants to sit down and plow through 50 pages of Thompson's rants at once?
If you're going to appreciate his wit and his madness you need to take your time.UPDATE - November 2018 - I finally decided to sit down and power through the rest of this book.
At times exhausting, frequently thrilling, Hunter Thompson was a brilliant artist.
This book is hard to get through because Thompson was so intense.
It's hard to cope with that level of intensity throughout a 500 page retrospective of his work.
The STOP SMILING Downfall of American Publishing Issue dedicates 40 pages to an oral history of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson, which includes interviews with collaborators and friends such as Ralph Steadman, Craig Vetter, wife Anita Thompson, PJ O'Rourke, and more. About the issue, Slate media critic Jack Shafer wrote, "Stop Smiling's oral history of Hunter S. Thompson bested Rolling Stone's similarly constructed special issue about the Doctor in every way.
This book of Hunter S.
Thompson essays and articles covers most of his early career, especially the time period when he was writing Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Hell's Angels and the Watergate scandal.
Many of these articles were incorporated into those other books, but a good portion of it hasn't been printed before outside of the original, now very-hard-to-find, periodicals.This is vintage Thompson.
He covers pop icons (Jean Claude Killy, Muhammad Ali) in a way that you wish even E!
News could just dream about doing once.
This remains the best book for accessing the ouvre of Hunter S.
He remains one of the most unique voices of the late twentieth century, bringing anarchy into the news and substance abuse lit to the masses.
I suspect as time goes on more people will discover Gonzo journalism and of course try to emulate it.
The classics are in this book, starting with the wonderful "The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved" and his remarkable insights into politicians of his time - up close and personal - like Jimmy Carter, George McGovern and his bete noir, Richard Nixon.
There is nothing like a road trip with Hunter.
While this book is a collection of other writings, it is like a best of Hunter S Thompson. I have never read anything in my life where there was so few lulls and yet so many memorable stories of the shark hunt as the title says, going through customs with a ton of drugs, going to the Kentucky Derby, writing on the culture of the 70's change from the spirit of the 60's. Hunter was truly a wild journalist whose kind may never be witnessed again but whose writing is undeniably a spirit of great American journalism.
Some stories, like the eponymous Great Shark Hunt, and the Kentucky Derby one, are absolute classics. However, many of the gems get caught in between long stretches of relatively boring political coverage. I'd recommend it, though, especially if you aren't averse to picking and choosing among the best pieces.
I know Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas is the "Great Work" for which he will be forever remembered and deservedly so. However, Shark Hunt is a kind of Penguin Reader of the Essential HST and as such is the indispensable survey of the glory years.I read this six or eight times between the ages of 19 and 22. If you have a brain ripe for warping, crack this one some time.
This is a good book. I'm not going to pretend it's anything real special. I think it's more someone trying to milk it for all it's worth, actually. And that's just fine by me. Still, going back to Hell's Angels might be a better use of your time.
It's a long-haul to get through...a lot of gonzo for one sitting, but quite a few of the pieces make it well worth it (and hence the 4 stars). Some excellent bits about San Francisco, California, and counterculture along with painstaking political trail journalism and self-deprecation.
Probably the book (collection of essays) that made me want to write.
Re-read it as the Trump Era got fired up. I'll probably be re-reading more Thompson in the next few years . . .
Having finally finished the 615 page behemoth that is The Great Shark Hunt, I have gotten a lot out of it.
Spread throughout the book are tales of his ridiculous and surreal adventures that make for an entertaining read.
I have gained a respect for journalism and quality of writing in general as a result of feeling the passion and regard HST had for his work, despite the maelstrom chaos and debauchery that permeated his life.
All in all, The Great Shark Hunt is window into the world of a surreal legend leading a surreal life.
this covers the breadth of thompson's early career, including chunks of his three major works: hell's angels, fear & loathing in las vegas, and fear & loathing on the campaign trail.
what's more interesting is the divergent and detailed path through which he catalogued the fringes of society: student radicals and brown power, sports fans and richard nixon, the hell's angels and jean claude killy.
there's a hell of a lot here, some of it is better than others but it gives you the scope of thompson at the height of his powers.
Well, this is by the great Gonzo journalist.
I am amazed at his insights at times.
His views of Los Angeles, Peru, Argentina, Louisville and others is actually very illuminating.
His rants on Richard Nixon get tiresome and take up too much of the book.
I understand he did not like Nixon and that Nixon was bad, but it is clear that he did not like most politicians except McGovern and Carter.
He thought Humphrey was as bad a s Nixon.
I am not sure he was sane, but who says insane people cannot provide insight.
Loved the best of it. Even better than I expected. Gave me much deeper insight into HST the person than the myth. A great talent and knew it! My only issue with the book is my birthdate. So many of the political players he writes about are of a different generation than when I became politically aware. The writing is strong, I just wasn't engaged by the details. I definately recommend The Great Shark Hunt, but don't be afraid to skim. No guilt. There is much to love, love it!
I read this years ago and remember loving every bit of it--except the journalism which was almost as boring as it is everywhere else. The drug haze does make it a bit more interesting and a hell of a lot more entertaining. I might have to visit the plane flight again one day to find if it still makes me cry with laughter as it once did.If you're looking for more Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas don't bother with this.
The coverage of Richard Nixon’s campaigns are a little overdone and the all pervading mood of excess and anarchy that informs almost every story definitely grows a little weary, monotonous and predictable after over 600 pages.
Overall this is a decent enough read to dip in and out of over time, but there are no shortage of dry, monotonous passages and stories that don’t really go anywhere and will leave you cold.
HST's volumes of Gonzo Papers (The Great Shark Hunt is the first of four volumes) can be intimidating to even the avid reader: small-sized text with small margins means each of the nearly 600 pages are packed FULL of those things that make up a book we refer to as words.
There are only 2 minor things with the book: the first being that I've read so many of HST's works, a lot of what was included in this compilation was excerpts from books I've already read (which wasn't a huge downfall as it was sort of a refresher, but after a while some of the reading was a bit repetitive for me).
What the sub-title means by the "Gonzo Papers" is that this book is a Thompson sampler; It collects dozens and dozens of articles and book exceprts on subjects from covering the Kentucky Derby to race tension in LA following the slaying of a prominent Latino TV reporter to Muhammed Ali's loss to Leon Spinks to Nixon's impeachment and resulting fallout.
I really liked this book - I was never bored, which is no easy feat considering the wide breadth of material covered and the sheer length (almost 600 huge pages).
I will preface this review by stating that I thoroughly enjoyed Songs of the Doomed and loved Generation of Swine, which might not be salient to the average reader, but I have read a bunch of Hunter's stuff and this volume gave me a serious case of deja vu.
Notwithstanding, it was enjoyable stuff to reread, but I was hoping for a repeat of the incredibly engrossing sense I got reading Songs for the first time...
All that said: make no mistake - there is real journalism in this book, and it is fine stuff, specifically if you want to read about Nixon.
Thompson at the peak of his writing prowess.
It’s a collection of political essays, the bulk of them from the early to mid-1970s and focusing on Richard Nixon’s campaign for a second term (followed by the astonishing saga that was Watergate).
Interspersed are other curiosities like an interview with Muhammad Ali, the titular shark hunt, and Thompson’s infamous report on the Kentucky Derby.It’s one hell of a tome and frankly the political reports become repetitive served up all at once instead of in monthly instalments (as they were originally intended to be read).
Bush administration.A must for any Thompson fan.
Thompson produce una radiografía contracultural que en sus mejores momentos (La crónica sobre el asesinato del reportero Rubén Salazar por parte de la Policía de Los Ángeles, el perfil del esquiador francés Jean-Claude Killy) arranca la yugular de la sociedad estadounidense aburguesada de la posguerra y en sus momentos menos creativos o coherentes (la pesca-protesta de Marlon Brando, la reseña de la revista El Jefe de Policía) al menos no deja de ser interesante.¿Por qué le puse tres estrellas?
Lo cuál me ha parecido francamente decepcionante de una editorial conocida por traer algunos de los títulos más interesantes y provocadores de la literatura universal del siglo XX a nuestra lengua.De esto también entra la traducción.
So if you didn't like him, or the thought of him, or the idea of what he represented then you will not enjoy his writing, simple as that.
There is no disassociation here, he IS the stories he wrote, and that was the essence of Gonzo, at least that's how I perceive it.
To appreciate Hunter Thompson and his work is to smile and shake you head at just the thought of what he would have wrote about the swindling, swine bastards with curved nails and dull horns that currently sit on thrones of bones.
This first volume of the Gonzo Papers collects articles from the '60's and 70's.
I learned that LA police racist killings are not a new thing ("Strange Rumblings in Aztlan").
I learned about Beatniks, the Free Speech Movement, Mario Savio, Hells' Angels.
I voted for Jimmy Carter for President in my first election, but I had never known of his Law Day speech (Address by Jimmy Carter on Law Day: University of Georgia, Athens, GA") given while he was still Governor.
That speech, spoken mostly off the cuff, makes me even proud of Mr. Carter and his service to this country.
HST is an amazing writer, and I'm looking forward to reading the other Gonzo Papers collections.
The anthology format is very helpful for you to see his development from an ordinary chemical-abusing foreign freelancer into the writer through whose eyes I saw some of the most important images of the '72 presidential campaign,Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72 riots in hispanic Los Angeles, the Hell's Angels Hell's Angelsand the Freak Power campaign for Aspen Colorado local offices.
They're all good.
I can't keep up all this writing about H.S.T. He's my favorite modern author by far and probably holds top 3 or 5 of all time.
He Just Had a way of looking at things and injected a whole new journalism, GONZO!
He has many books with often a totally different feel altogether while sticking to His GONZO roots.
I think once he tried to do a book in a more normal format and as far as I know he never did it again.
He has a whole new generation of GONZO journalists to carry the torch.
An excellent compilation of Thompson's work.This collection may be a bit frustrating for fans who have already read Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, FAL On the Campaign Trail '72, and Hell's Angels: A Strange and Terrible Saga, because it includes large portions of those works. Most important (and most interesting) is the inclusion of some of Thompson's early work from first half of the 1960s, proving that Thompson could play it relatively "straight" with results just as engrossing as his later "gonzo" works for which he became famous.
The Great Shark Hunt: Strange Tales from a Strange Time by Hunter S. Thompson The first volume in Hunter S. Thompson’s bestselling Gonzo Papers offers brilliant commentary and outrageous humor, in his signature style. Originally published in 1979, the first volume of the bestselling “Gonzo Papers” is now back in print. The Great Shark Hunt is Dr. Hunter S. Thompson’s largest and, arguably, most important work, covering Nixon to napalm, Las Vegas to Watergate, Carter to cocaine. These essays off
The Great Shark Hunt: Strange Tales from a Strange Time by Hunter S.
Thompson
The first volume in Hunter S.
Thompson’s bestselling Gonzo Papers offers brilliant commentary and outrageous humor, in his signature style.
Originally published in 1979, the first volume of the bestselling “Gonzo Papers” is now back in print.
The Great Shark Hunt is Dr. Hunter S.
These essays offer brilliant commentary and outrageous humor, in signature Thompson style.
Ranging in date from the National Observer days to the era of Rolling Stone, The Great Shark Hunt offers myriad, highly charged entries, including the first Hunter S.
But, in fairness how else could a reporter capture the feel of this period without having a head full of acid and a steady flow of alcohol.The genius of his work, lies in the nervous edginess of his prose and his ability for bizarre and yet vivid similes.This book can be heavy going as it goes into fine detail on an eclectic mix of topics.
One thing you will have after reading is not a head of facts but what it felt like to have lived through this unique period of time.
The idea that a young man fresh out of high school or college could be forced to fight in the hell that was south Vietnam with no end in sight and body bags being sent home every day provoked an existential, politically explosive reaction.
And who’s reporting could be more wild and warped than that of a man high on cocaine or detached from reality by psychedelics?( Or both?) In the sense of professional journalism, Hunter S.
Nevertheless, he shows flashes of brilliance and profundity throughout the collection of works that make up ‘The Great Shark Hunt’.
It is ugly to know just how close we came to meeting Orwell's deadline (1984)."Democracy Dies in Peru, but Few Seem to Mourn it's Passing" National Observer, August 27, 1962If there is one profound reality in Peruvian politics it is the fact that this country has absolutely no democratic tradition, and any attempt to introduce one is going to meet violent opposition.
Collected here are several of his greatest pieces, such as "The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved," which show his mastery of the written word and his search for an absolute truth in his writing which would be the birth of Gonzo.
Well, the steady influx of drugs didn't help there either...This book, this massive tome, collects pieces from throughout Thompson's career.
It starts with some of Thompson's more known Gonzo pieces, then about halfway through jumps much earlier in his writing career when he's still playing with his form.
Everyone should have a little Hunter Thompson in their lives.
Hunter S Thompson got put on a lot of great journalistic assignments and I really enjoyed getting a longer term perspective of how he fit into American culture from the 60s to the 70s.
I'd read four of Thompson's books prior to this, but I think this compilation gave me the best overall understanding of what a generational talent the man was.
I deduct a star because I didn't think a compilation such as this should have included excerpts from his actual books (Hells Angels and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas), but that's a small nitpick.
Overall, I would highly recommend this book.
This volume of work contains a wide variety of snippets from Thompson’s writing career, from the span of 1962 to 1978.Let me begin by saying that Thompson is one of my favorite authors, and I have read nearly all of his books, including one of the other volumes in the Gonzo Papers collection.
But this collection is so thorough and impressive that I would recommend anybody to give it a read, regardless of their knowledge of Thompson.The Great Shark Hunt begins with coverage of the Kentucky Derby, including a piece that Ralph Steadman collaborated on - the first meeting of Thompson and Steadman, who became a unique illustrator for later works by Thompson.
Hunter S Thompson pioneered 'gonzo' journalism, where the journalist is never a passive observer in the story, but indeed appears in the thick of it, oftentimes as a provocateur.
Chronologically, the earlier writings in the book deal predominantly with cultures we would consider outside the mainstream, including hippies, Hells Angels and disadvantaged hispanics in LA.
The middle section of the book primarily concerns itself with Richard Nixon, whom Thompson seemed to have a visceral hatred of.
The last section of the book deals with the late 70s, and is almost anti-climactic after the highs and lows of Watergate.
