https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311127.Regency_Buck
So, armed only with their guardian's name, Lord Worth, and their undoubtedly very handy funds, off they go to London.On the way they stop in a town to see a "mill" (boxing match) and have a few unfortunate encounters with a condescending gentleman, who mocks them, jokingly calls Judith "Clorinda" when she won't tell him her name, steals a kiss from her, and deftly avoids being challenged by Perry.
4.5 twinkling, sparkling stars!In my early days on the internet I was excited to find a Georgette Heyer message board. I didn't last long there as most of the posters hated Regency Buck & loved Lady of Quality! While Regency Bucks has it's flaws, my memory of Lady of Quality is (view spoiler)[that it was a reworking of Black Sheep only with a really obnoxious hero. (hide spoiler)]The message board didn't last long either.I might as well get the issues I had with the book out of the way first
While Regency Bucks has it's flaws, my memory of Lady of Quality is (view spoiler)[that it was a reworking of Black Sheep only with a really obnoxious hero.
(hide spoiler)]The message board didn't last long either.I might as well get the issues I had with the book out of the way first.
(hide spoiler)]What I didn't like other than the boxing & the cockfight - same as last time - (view spoiler)[Worth threatening to beat Judith.
As it was, I was torn between hating Lord Worth and being swept up in the story.Judith Taverner and her younger, sillier brother Peregrine have been recently orphaned, and with spirited curiosity they decide to seek out their new guardian, the high-handed Lord Worth.
But even as they enjoy great social success, worryingly lethal "accidents" keep happening around Perigrine...and Lord Worth seems to be involved.Judith and Beau Brummel are great characters, and their friendship was the highlight of this novel.
When the prince tries to take advantage of her (in a scene novel to Heyer in its disturbing realism), Judith is so overcome that she faints for the first time in her life.
The heroine here is almost my favorite kind of Heyer girl – witty, perceptive, cleverer than the men who are supposed to be her betters – except for how she’s ultimately an idiot so that the hero can explain the entire plot to her.
It’s a vague sort of mystery where you’re supposed to be unsure who the hero actually is, but the whole thing almost, but ultimately just doesn’t work.Sometimes, so close is also so very, very far.
In defence of Regency BuckI have, recently, in a Georgette Heyer forum here on GR briefly addressed the perplexing nature of the hatred Lord Worth gets in comparison with other Heyer heroes (and Judith too in comparison with other Heyer heroines), but would like to take the time here to speak more extensively about it, because reasons.Regency Buck was actually the first full Heyer I ever read (the actual first was an abridged audiobook version of Sylvester, but let’s face it, Richard Armitage’s voice is impossible to resist).
4.5I didn't expect a book with this title (you have to admit it doesn't sound very promising) to be this lovely and wonderful.
There are so many things I loved here.
A bond between siblings (both Judith and Peregrine and Lord Worth and his brother) was always something a reader could rely on.
Judith's numerous prejudices were a bit annoying at times because even if you had no idea what was going on in Lord Worth's head, you knew enough to trust him.
An uncomfortable theme was used in the book, but it wasn't there just to spice the story up.
Yes the rocky relationship between Worth and Judith runs right through the book, with a bold (but brief) kiss very near the beginning.
Of course, this being a reread, I know whodunnit and how, but the fact remains that I'm not a big mystery fan, and I've never even read Ms Heyer's mystery genre books.
Yes she obviously loved her brother, but for most of the book she seemed to hate and mistrust Worth.
I admire the clever plot and the fluent writing, but Worth and Judith leave me a little cold compared with some of her other MCs.
However, Judith will never know how many times I wanted to smack her.
That said, in the beginning and end I liked Judith, but in the middle I just wanted her to grow up and not irritate me in the process.
My book had a blurb on the inside which got my hopes up, (view spoiler)[ it said that Perigrine, Judith's brother goes missing and she has to turn to her guardian Worth, for help.
I was beginning to think nothing would, but about fifty pages more brought me to that excitement, and by then I couldn't wait to be done with this book.
This is Georgette Heyer's first Regency romance, and has seen its fair share of criticism - particularly of its hero, the fifth Earl of Worth, Julian Audley.
The beautiful heiress, Judith Taverner, and her brother Sir Peregrine, are on their way to London in search of their guardian, when they chance upon a aristocrat who gets entirely too familiar with the feisty Judith.
All said, I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, and while I can understand all the criticism directed against Lord Worth, he will remain my favorite Heyer hero!
One of Heyer's earliest novels, and it appears that she attempted to write in Austen's style, with an awkward result that is almost painful at times.
After this, she began developing her own distinctive style, mixing Regency-era slang with twenties Bright Young Thing cadences.The hero in this one is one of her Brutal Guys.
I loathed him in this book, though I like him much better in An Infamous Army.
But this one had a lot of details about Regency life that were enjoyable, at least when I first read it as a teen.
I believe this is Heyer’s earliest Regency novel, and it shows.
Lists of all the gentlemen’s clubs in London; lists of varieties of snuff; virtually every bon mot Beau Brummell ever uttered; name-dropping Sense and Sensibility to establish the time frame.
(Though considering how Mr. Taverner is clearly ripped from Mr. Elliott, perhaps it should have been Persuasion!)But it also shows that Heyer had finally found her proper milieu.
The novel sparkles with wit and lighthearted dialogue; all the elements that Heyer lovers love are here.
I have read by now quite a few Georgette Heyer's book, but this was my least favourite.There was too much about the plot and not enough about character development. I did not take to the heroin's object of affection either - hardly any redeeming features this time.
Judith and Perry ride to London to rock out, and on the way they have a misadventure that ends with Judith getting her face kissed off by a grabby stranger.
His inability to unbend and share even the smallest iota of his thought-processes or suspicions results in a lot of unnecessary drama, and it really doesn't let me trust him as the "hero" of the piece.
If he can't trust Judith now, she's going to have a shitty future with him, that's for sure.2.
I never got a good read on Judith and the ~reveal of her ~feelings for Worth was so poorly handled that I was half-afraid she'd been poisoned as well.
This is not my favorite Georgette Heyer romance, but as light historical fiction it is a delight.Regency Buck tells the tale of two wealthy though provincial young people as they embark on their first London Season.
Judith Taverner and her younger brother, Sir Peregrine, are planning to spend the night at The Grantham Inn when a fateful and highly embarrassing carriage accident complicates their plans—and their lives.The Taverners’ visit to Grantham proves livelier than expected in part because a prizefight—a “mill”—has drawn some 15,000 spectators to the area, all eager to bet on Cribb and Molineaux and the fight of the century.
But history buffs like me mostly appreciate Regency Buck for the pleasures of the London Season and the chance to rub elbows with the rich, royal and (in)famous.
I guessed fairly early who the culprit was but this didn't take from the enjoyment of it.I'm surprised I liked it so much because I certainly didn't like the principle characters of Worth and Judith.
He was very young and acted that way but there was no malice in him.
If he was thwarted in anything he wanted to do, he'd fly off the handle and sulk but not for long as it wasn't in his nature to be that way and young as he was he usually saw the rightness of what was being denied him.
Yes, I wanted to shake him up a great many times and command him to stop driving poor Judith up the wall, but he was such an interesting and fun character to read about, that I could not but like him a lot.
Being her only immediate relative, it was understandable that she was thus devoted to him, even though he wasn't a particularly engaging character.What I enjoyed the most about this novel - beside the love story - was all the description of clothing, events, and fashions/manners of time.
But thanks to the insights of my fellow Heyer readers, I would bring my rating up to a 2-2.5 stars for the research alone; H and h are still humorless and the mystery is pretty obvious to anyone who reads a lot of mysteries, but in all fairness this was her first Regency!
I would say Heyer definitely got better at Regency romances and mysteries, this one had very little of her sparkling wit and humor, but a lot of her usual careful research- in other words, still better than a lot of writers today, so I’d give it three stars!
***The review below is that of a very involved reader, please make allowance for any difference of opinions!***4.75* for this Georgette Heyer book.Regency Buck was a book I had been wanting to read for a long time and after having read it, well the least I can say is it was what a Georgette Heyer book is, prolific writing and a good story, considerable amount of intrigue and mystery with touches of romance.
There is something ironical in her nature, she despises showy people especially men, and yet judges people based only on their apparent characters!Peregrine, though much as he loved his sister was but very careless and I was annoyed at his reluctance to appreciate Lord Worth and his determined defiance of him was many times ingratiating.
Clever, Witty Regency with a Mystery and a TwistSet in the Regency (1811-1820) but no date given, this is the story of Miss Judith Taverner and her brother Peregrine who, at their father’s death, travel to London to meet their guardian, Lord Worth.
When someone appears to be trying to kill Perry (Judith will inherit his wealth as well as have her own), they begin to wonder whom of their new acquaintances and Judith’s many suitors might be involved.Much of the story is taken up with Regency entertainments and the pastimes of the rich, both in London and Brighton, but there is a mystery that grown in importance.
Lots of fun detail about architecture and some customs but ultimately not one of Heyer’s favorites because I had a very difficult time liking the lead character. I found her to be contrary and argumentative and spoiled. Ick. This one does have a fun little mystery with disaster averted, of course.
There were parts of it that I liked better this time around, and parts that I actually liked less.The hero, Lord Worth, is no more likeable in this read than he was the first time I read it.
Mr. Brummel, for example, was quite charming, as was Lord Worth's younger brother, Charles.Now, though, the really good aspect of this book - Heyer did a great job with the mystery in this romance.
Someone is trying to get Judith's brother, Peregrine, out of the way, and the way that she plotted that particular part of the book was genius.
A hero who threatens to beat the heroine is not a hero worth having.
I'm not a huge fan of Regency Buck, mostly because I like Judith when she is away from Worth, but hate her whenever she's in his presence or even thinking about him.
Looking at its Wikipedia article, I see that it was her first Regency novel, which isn't surprising; much of the Regency setting feels almost like a tour guide, as we get lavish descriptions of, for example, the Regent's palace at Bath, and Beau Brummel appears as an actual character rather than being mentioned in passing.
In Heyer's later Regency novels, the setting that is described so lavishly here is merely a backdrop, and the Beau, like Golden Ball (whom we spot in Arabella), is generally mentioned only in passing.
I read my first regency romance in college; introduced to them by a roommate who shall remain nameless for I would hate for all the world to know that she was at fault for the many, many hours I've wasted reading them.
But I was recently introduced to Georgette Heyer who appears to have invented the entire genre and have read two of her books in the last 36 hours.
They are everything that a regency romance should be (since she set the standard) and clean as a whistle.
They must include the raunch to try to hide that fact.
1) There was a lot more interaction between the hero and the heroine than in most of the other Heyers that I have read.
I think that this made the ending much more believable than in some other stories where they go from seemingly not liking each other the whole book and then, boom, getting engaged in the last chapter.
3) Judith was a great heroine.
Some of Heyer's heroines have had the tendency to annoy me but Judith was perfect.
The heroine is impetuous but not silly.
Their banter is sharp and funny, and the book is nicely suspenseful even though there's never the slightest doubt of a happy ending.The secondary characters are well done, particularly the heroine's younger brother.
We also have some famous figures in this book: Beau Brummell is a minor character, and the Prince Regent and some of his brothers make unflattering appearances.
My least favourite kind of Heyer novel—one with a fiery-yet-naive heroine and a hero so full of upper-class, alpha male testosterone that I'd be surprised if he boasts but the one pair of testicles.
Judith irritated me, and Worth was the very image of an even more insufferable version of Darcy, who never got the set-down that he so thoroughly required.
Heyer lost any interest I might have had in him the moment he started carrying around Judith, touching her against her will and physically intimidating her; by the time he told her she needed a good beating, I absolutely detested him.
Thoroughly dislikable characters in this one, every single one of them.
The first that comes to mind after finishing a first reread of an old favorite of mine is "Bloody hell, was it this problematic the first time around?"The second thing is that OMG STILL AS DREAMY AS THE FIRST TIMEYoung and stupid Me from half a decade ago was waxing poetic about this book, and I gotta admit I see where that comes from...
"I shall have to call you Clorinda."....."Judith!
Of course this was written in 1935 talking about the 1800s so I gotta give Georgette Heyer kudos for making it even advanced for both times.
Her brother comes to her aid, but when the two arrive in London and seek out their illusive guardian, they discover that the fifth Earl of Worth is Julian who previously assaulted Judith.This is not a promising start since Julian does not show any remorse for his actions and behaves with so much arrogance towards his wards.
I had to push myself through the last two chapters, it was almost nauseating to watch Judith discover that Julian was a misunderstood hero and that she loved him all along.
2018 ReviewI know I say this about every Heyer couple, but Judith and Worth might be the best.
I re-read this book yesterday and fell in love.
(Though lets be honest...I'd re-read anything that had Heyer's name on it, even the books I originally rated 1 star)Original review below.
"an arrogant, insufferable dandy!" Thoughts Though the beginning was interesting, the book was slow and kind of boring for the first half, but picked up quite nicely once Judith figures out that someone is trying to kill Peregrine.
Geogette Heyer did some research for this regency romance, and boy does she want you to know about it.Perfect for me - I often enjoy the history more than the romance, so I got a little thrill of pleasure from the detailed description of the gowns, the meticulously plotted racing-routes (you can open up google maps now and follow their journeys - the towns are all still there and the roads are often still main roads), and the careful reference to current events (the news of the battle of Ciudad Rodrigo arriving a few months before Byron is catapulted to fame).
