https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192424.American_Indian_Stories
This short volume contains a collection of short stories, biographical sketches, and one essay by the Sioux writer Zitkala-Ša.The early stories are about the author's life on a reservation in South Dakota, her freedom as a young child there, and then her life in a missionary school further east.
It's a jarring experience, where the sound of bells, the tight stiff shoes, and the murmurs of English are all foreign experiences.
After this, the author abruptly turns to a few fictional pieces.
She had several relatives due to the reservation's mismanagement, and she's going through the extinguishing of all she knew and loved.
The stories almost always centre around hunger and hunting, suggesting these to be especially dramatic features of Dakota life, while the parts of the memoir among the Dakota relate more to peaceful social activities.Zitkala-Sa's account of the missionary school she attended is extremely fragmented, and she writes about the bizarre, disturbing discipline rather than the curriculum.
He is as heartless and stupid as Iktomi, and more disastrous than Iya. Zitkala-Sa writes visions of hope into her stories, and her brave, fighting spirit stands tall and strong from her work.
Zitkala-Ša leaves her home in Dakota and joins a missionary school in the east. In this book she gives a bird eye view of her childhood and brief look into her entry to western society. She writes about religion, politics and the future she sees for her people.
Lucky natives receive the word of God and the right to property.
In very simple and elegant words, she lets us in on how it felt to be not an Indian and not a white.
How she lost her simple but very happy ways, to learn to read and write in a white school.
I think her the most brave, to leave her Mother at such a young age and go off with people she didn't know.
My over all impression is that she was very happy living the traditional way of her people when she was young, but after leaving there, she seems always sad.
And now my long hair was shingled like a coward's!
It clearly illustrates the ways in which Native Americans have been disenfranchised and their culture dismantled--among which are the creation of reservations, the imposition of missionaries, compulsory schooling in which children are separated from family and tribe and taught to be "white," struggles over land ownership and identity, and the general voicelessness and powerlessness of the Native American within the United States.
Zitkala-Sa is able to gesture toward a hopeful future in this way because she is writing a political book in this amalgam of autobiography, storytelling, and activism.
She writes, "Now the time is at hand when the American Indian shall have his day in court through the help of the women in America.
I believe Zitkala-Ša was the first Indigenous person to write and translate her works without the help of a colonist.The rating: Four out of five starsWhat I thought of it: This book comprises a combination of stories from Zitkala-Ša's childhood and adolescence, including when she was educated at a missionary school, as well as stories from other Sioux people and political essays.
While I sympathize very strongly with the author's goals and message, my impression of the book itself is mixed.
The first part - Zitkala-Sa's memories of her early life both before and after leaving her native home - is by far the strongest and on its own would have rated 4 stars.
The subsequent stories carry an important message, but are rather weak if judged solely as works of fiction (though I admit I could be missing some subtler strengths).
In sum, I applaud the author with all my heart but can only really recommend the first portion of the book.
I encountered this book as a free read from Google Books and completed it on breaks while at work.
As others have mentioned some of the language is dated.
One expects that from a manuscript this old.
There is also some syntax errors and inconsistencies - none so distracting that the stories themselves cannot be enjoyed.This small volume does much to remind us of the cultural wounds inflicted upon a nation.
The tone is often heavy, sometimes light-hearted, and at others inspirational.
That section alone makes it a volume worth completing.

Zitkala-Sa belongs alongside the great fin de siecle prose writers. She weilds impressionistic style with great effect, moves in and out of tenses suggestively, and maintains an ambiguity on the sentence level that many of her contemporaries in the short story genre only achieve on the level of the story as a whole. It's a great shame that she didn't write more fiction -- though her nonfiction journalism, bending the lines of genre, bears the same qualities.
I had to read some selections of this book for a class, and I enjoyed them so much I ended up reading the whole book. This is an incredibly poignant collection of writings- I especially loved the autobiographical sections, as well as Blue Star Woman, which is one of the most moving short stories I've ever read. Zitkala-Sa's writing is so lyrical that this collection was hard to put down.
Really enjoyed the 2/3s of this that I read. Particularly her description of her childhood, and her resistance to hair shingling and turnips. I wish there were greater exploration of the pull of modernity--clearly it upsets and repels her even as it attracts. So much loss which she conveys. So many lovely photos of her...wonder if anyone's written on this!
Unexpectedly fierce and poetic. This is great American writing that goes far beyond a recounting of legend. Zitkala-Sa blends memoir, fiction, and advocacy to create a book that's ahead of its time. Damn."It was a paradox upon a land of prophecy that its path to future glory be stained with the blood of its aborigines."
Zitkala-Ša is a great Sioux writer and is very popular for his collections of Sioux tales. This is a good read for anyone. It is nice to read writing from a man that is from the same band of Native Americans as you.
a collection of stories about her childhood of her family and her boarding school she was sent to after the white men took and killed her family
An engaging and important autobiography, along with additional portraits of Native American life.
The first half is mostly autobiographical, narrating the author's experience of leaving the Plains for schooling in the east. The second half is a series of short stories.
Too Christianized to be accepted back on the reservation, yet too "Indian" to be accepted in the white mainstream, the graduates of these schools essentially became people without any home, or any culture, at all.The second half of the book includes several short texts that are more obviously works of fiction.
In all of these stories, Zitkala-Ša shows that white domination has not only diminished indigenous communities, but that by making rights and resources so scarce it has turned members of those communities against one another.At 115 years old, American Indian Stories may not be high on the reading list even for people who seek out indigenous perspectives in literature.
Sa, and her "white" name Gertrude Bonnin, wrote the book about legends and tales learned from tribe members passed down throughout the generations of Yankton Sioux.
But she still got many points across about how beautiful and dynamic the culture was hundreds of years ago before the white man ever invaded the plains and forced changes on the tribes in the area.I would have given the book five stars if she would have kept the controversy out of it altogether.
If you can read past some of the controversial longing by a tribal daughter, the heartfelt legends, tales and tradition are written with passion, longing and love.
She goes to college, becomes a teacher and writes many books.
She became an important advocate for Native American civil rights.
She was a key figure in the Native Americans becoming citizens of the United States.
While this book was first published in the 1920's, it is important for its historical perspective.
I was reminded how Native Americans were forced to live and how they were treated.
Native Americans did not know what to do with their "Americanized" children.Disclaimer: I received a digital galley of this book free from the publisher from NetGalley.
The way the stories and articles read were very old fashioned, and while I enjoyed the old fashioned style in the stories, Zitkala-Sa's style in the articles for magazines or newspapers was dry.
Often believing that I was still in the midst of a story, I would have a moment of realization that what I was reading was an entirely different story.
Overall, I was glad to have read it to become more aware of the historical on goings of that time, but I would probably recommend a different book to a friend.
I found this book most interesting due to the historical nature of it.
I am also fascinated by the author, after reading an article about her, and wanted to read some of her works.Written in the early 1900's, this book of stories tells both the author's history, as well as other American Indian stories she tells of that era.
Having known both cultures, she is able to give an interesting perspective of Native American life.I am looking forward to reading other books from this amazing woman, who seems to have been ahead of her times.
Given To Me For An Honest ReviewThis book is about the author's life.
It tells her story of being born in South Dakota on the Yankton Reservation.
She soon didn't believe things of the American society or her own tribe.
She attended college, became a teacher, and wrote a variety of books.
She became a prominate advocate for the Native American rights.
She was a key figure in the legislation that granted Native Americans citizenship in 1924,If you enjoy history and Native American history you will enjoy this book.
There’s definitely a dated feel about the language.
It is sometimes melodramatic.
But these stories, first published in 1921, are well worth reading.
The first piece is a poignant memoir of the author’s childhood, and it has the feel of truth.
Like many of the stories, it depicts Dakota social habits in a completely natural and easy way, from the inside.
Other stories deal with the intersection of beliefs between Christianity and Dakota spiritual practices.
One of these, “The Soft-Hearted Sioux” is about a Sioux who converts to Christianity, and then has to deal with tribal censure and the struggle to survive.
It is always a bit of a shock to realize how bad things actually were and may still be. Zitkala-Sa covers a vast territory of the fallout from bad policies regarding Native Americans and their land, and it is poignantly clear how much of it is autobiographical and drawn from her own observation. Her political message is very loud, but she gifts the people of her stories with a dignity that often evades those who write on behalf of the wronged. I can't really imagine how this might have struck her pre-Civil Rights audience of the twenties.
This was assigned for a history class that I'm taking.
I love stories, I grew up listening to the native legends in Alaska.
It is a fabulous, short read (always good in a history class because you never know) and I highly recommend it.Zitkala-sa tells her story of growing up, being sent to an "indian school" to be educated and of all that she learned.
She tells of her culture and her struggles with her mother, who is from an older time and remembers more clearly the troubles her people had.She has a beautiful style and her love of storytelling is very evident.
This short collection covers a collection of topics: the author's story of growing up as a Dakota in the changing West, stories of other Dakotas' lives, a synopsis on America's "Indian Problem", and a collection of Dakota folk tales. This book is good, but I found myself counting pages until I was finished. I wish that the book focused on one or two topics versus the four or so it had. Overall, it is a good read for anyone interested in Native American history or lore.
The first translation of Native American writing to be produced without an Anglo intermediary. An excellent blend of autobiography and tribal mythos, with a respectful letter to its author by Helen Keller at the beginning (though she wasn't cool enough to resist referring to it as "your little book").
I really liked this book. It took me a long time to read it; I am not sure why. I think I wanted to really absorb it. The topic is very special to me personally - and we are very lucky that this woman wrote these and managed to get them published. She covers some important turf.I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in women's perspectives or native american history.
