https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245485.Classical_Mechanics
I'm parking this one because it doesn't cover what I need. I'm not rating it because it might be good or bad and I haven't read enough of it to judge. The fact that it assumes what I wanted to learn just means it isn't the book I need.The first chapter presents a very austere but elegant exposition of the basic principles of Newtonian mechanics. It would probably not suit beginners but this isn't a book for beginners anyway. That's about all I can say.
Somehow this book has become one of the standards for classical mechanics. Unfortunately, it is neither particularly detailed in its explanations nor well-written.
Even though this is the standard mechanics book, its treatment is pretty average. Be careful when doing problems and check the website for corrections because there are a lot of typos. Also, there were a lot of changes between different printings of the same edition as some of the typos were corrected or problems modified, e.g. different potentials given for the same scattering problem. This makes it tough when the professor, grader, and your classmates all have different versions of the same problems.
"The" book that specializes on one of the 5 cornerstone topics that every physicist should learn. this isn't a "easy" book, but it is one of my favorites.Download Link: http://dl.lux.bookfi.org/genesis/6100...
The go to book to actually learn Classical Mechanics (along with Landau's book)....mind you the book is not an easy read, you have to go through the sections thoroughly to appreciate its elegance. The exercises are brilliant though time consuming but if you are able to complete these, be extremely happy that you have grasped the concepts brilliantly.
More analytical than geometrical but it still remains the gold standard for classical mechanics. The only improvement I would like is more succinctness.
Much too formal.
Quite Good book, but not an easy read for beginner.
Es un buen libro y la materia que trata es bellísima. Pero es muy difícil de seguir. Muy denso, muy críptico. Riguroso pero inaccesible.
Reading the original edition.
He does connect the classical mechanics to the the modern or the electromagnetic, but what was missing was collision theory.I am not sure how useful transforming form one coordinate system to another will be.
He even went through a couple of transformations of the simple harmonic oscillator, and stated that this was a more difficult way of doing it, but look, it has the same answer.I haven't seen the newer edition, maybe it has more examples, but I doubt if it would be enough to change the book much.
The size of the book, 370 reading pages was about right.
I would have prefer less transformations and more mechanics.
The ordering for the content inside this book is amazing H. Goldstain flows from one topic to another giving a very clear and deep explanation of the topics. The notation is clear and so is the explanation of the conceptual framework for classical mechanics and then builds from the ground up to our modern physics. The only thing I disliked about this book is that some problems are just crazy hard.
his style of teaching isnt as for a 2nd year student...its disappointing when it takes ages for you to cover mere one page...:)especially in the beginning of it...I also think that the book lacks some diagrams..some of the terms that are very impotant in developing your understanding further in the book, will just be introduced briefly and thats no good I believe...but maybe its my fault that am not that used to self study ..:)by the way...Its a good book I should say..
Not very helpful as a textbook, explanations are sometimes unclear and confusing, and it is not very organized. Could have been a much thiner book and encompass the same material.
Classical mechanics is my best recordered books that I would remember in my heart.
good
I found this book was great suplement to Landau. Goldstein can be more clear and comprehensive when Landau is concise.
Much ado about nothing. For all insomniacs out there.
im about to read this book, i cant say anything yet
An absolutely amazing text , covering everything any undergraduate would need to know regarding classical mechanics! Very well written!
Rigorous and modern introduction to classical mechanics, dynamics.
