https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66525.The_Camelot_Caper
Mainly of interest for the backstory of "Sir John Smythe", one-half of the protagonist duo of the Vicky Bliss tales, which it appears I am doomed to read all of this week. O the suffering.I should probably look up copyright dates, and assure myself that the chronological order is also the order of composition. It would make all kinds of sense if the character first made his appearance here as a disposable antagonist, who then proceeded to hijack his creator's brain. A master thief, indeed, if here still a journeyman.Ta, L.
Vicky isn’t in this book. This is her friend, Jessica. Her estranged grandfather asks her to fly across the ocean to bring him a ring her father took when he left. The problem begins when she lands in jolly old England. Bad guys want the ring and are fine using violence to get it.  Cute mystery and fun to read.
A rather mad-cap send up of the classic gothic romance by Elizabeth Peters, made even more amusing by the fact that Elizabeth Peters actually wrote classic gothic romance under the pen name Barbara Michaels. This is a very lighthearted book, with a likeable main character, Jess, and her protector/boyfriend David who are being pursued by a pair of moderately incompetent semi-villainous villains. There is lots of Arthurian mockery, tripping over ruins in the moonlit darkness, and tea drinking. Cute.
This book could have been a lot of fun, if Peters had only put in a little effort.
The heroine, Jess, complains about the insipidity of the usual Gothic suspense heroines, but at least those women generally have a career, some emotional baggage, and one or two subjects they can talk about.
There is nothing here about Jess, and not a single line of dialogue, that doesn't relate directly to the action at hand.
If Peters didn't want to bother with characterization she could at least have made a joke of the fact, but instead the book tries to sneer at a genre it's in fact participating in--and weakly.
"Caper" was an excellent choice for the title: that's exactly what this is: an adventure with a romantic edge, danger around every corner but handled with a light touch, a tale of an unsuspecting female dropped into the midst of intrigue that would have served Alfred Hitchcock well.
The writing is quick and clear, smart and fun and funny; the characters are fun and different, with enough depth to make this very enjoyable; the story is fun and improbable and attention-grabbing, and deals intelligently with the Arthurian elements.
As always, the author's deep knowledge of archaeology and its surrounds forms a solid base for a frothy story.
Not her greatest book but still better then most of the mysteries out there at the moment. The whole Tolkien exchange was hilarious. "JRR Tolkien, author of the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings, one of the literary masterpieces of this century. I’ll get you a copy. If you don’t like it I probably won’t marry you after all.” ~David. I can just imagine my husband saying the same thing. “Cousin John does read Tolkien, no man who does that can be wholly evil.” ~David
This really was a caper - a fun and frivolous mystery, introducing a favourite gentleman crook from the Vicky Bliss series.
Even our main male character, David, eventually points out that the whole fiasco is kind of playing out like some sort of farce.None of the characters act like some dire situation is going on, which gave the entire story a bit of a comedic flair...
though, I suppose it will have to suffice for a book originally written in 1969.Nonetheless, the entire progression of the book was fairly forward moving, even with all the strange twists and turns we take, as the characters run around small towns in England with no actual destination.Basically there's just a lot of nonsensical happenings as our main characters try to figure out what's going on:  Why Cousin John is after Jess?
HE is the hero of that novel!" ;) Re-reading it with that particular casting choice in mind was very entertaining indeed.Still, there are a few reasons why this doesn't really score high on my radar of favorite Elizabeth Peters books.Her earlier works, at least those which are supposed to be set in the "current day", have a problem with being dated.
All in all it's a pretty forgettable read; I'd forgotten pretty much the entire plot, and all I had retained about it was that the hero had a big nose and that John from the Vicky Bliss novels was in it.
I love the lightness she gives her mysteries; they're absolutely hilarious!
She is very good with evocative details, and it's easy to identify with her characters.
The main character was threatened, and ran (it was good up to this point).
Then she ran into David, another great point.
Which is the point, but by the time the information was handed to me, I almost didn't care any more.
It ruined the long-awaited ending for me slightly.Other than that, this book was really good.
I'd recommend it to mystery fans, comedy fans, and Mary Stewart fanatics like me.
I've been a second-hand Elizabeth Peters fan ever since my mother discovered the Amelia Peabody series, years ago - but I'd never read an E.
For one thing, it had a unicorn on the cover, as well as the word 'Camelot'; and for another, someone had mentioned they didn't like any non-Peabody novels by E.
I would recommend this novel to fans of Lilian Jackson Braun, Agatha Christie, or mysteries + King Arthur in general.Bonus - many good novels and authors are mentioned, including Jane Austen and J.
Always fun for a good reader.
If you can forget the fact that half the storyline details are dropped and just focus on the general plot, you will enjoy it.Alas, it's next to impossible for me to ignore glaring gaps.
Details are glossed over - then BAM!
What just happened??Character development was seriously flawed and jagged.And the ending SUCKED - confusing and lackluster.I think the reason I actually got through this was the writing.
It wasn't bad.
you have high quality ingredients for a cake recipe - but you put them together totally wrong and the cake flops.
This is what this book was - a flopped cake with great ingredients.So much potential.
Such bad execution.
Full review later...
maybe...
if I have time.
This was cute but very dated in many ways.
I will say that the dialogue between the main characters reminded me a lot of Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn in "Charade".
It was very rapid-fire like that and very witty.
The mystery itself was a disappointment but I liked the characters themselves, for the most part.
I will say that at the end when things are finally coming to light, the male has (of course) figured everything out far in advance while he condescendingly walks her through all the pesky details that his vast male mind has already figured out.
Like I said, asomewhat dated but the ride on the way was fun.
I decided to read this when I read that Elizabeth Peters/Barbara Mertz had died as an homage to her. I've read a few of the Amelia Peabody series, and decided for something different. Published in1969, it certainly has the feel of the era. The characters are charming and reliable. For those who have read The Peabody books, the heroine is almost, not quite, the anti-Peabody. Very quick, diverting, and enjoyable, like most of Ms. Peters books. I am glad there are many more for me to read.
What I loved about this book was the witty banter and the relationship that develops between Jess and David. What I didn't like was the lack of character background for Jess. I didn't feel like I knew who she was, and all of a sudden I'm following her around England being chased by a stranger. It felt a bit weird. Who is this lady? Tell me something about her to make me like her. I'm just used to feeling more connected to the protagonist.
For the Vicky Bliss fans, this is the first introduction of John Smythe. He refers to his first caper in, I think, Trojan Gold saying he has never matched the sheer rediculousness of it.
ok. quick fun read. love EP sense of humor.
Cute little mystery romance. Introduces John Tregarth who plays an important role in the Vicki Bliss series.
I usually enjoy reading novels by Elizabeth Peters, but this one left me unimpressed.
The main character, Jessica, acted like an airhead throughout the story.
She was running around England because someone was after her, but she still decided to stop and play tourist.
I wasn't impressed by her rescuer any more than I was with her.
The characters were only slightly more impressive than the plot.
I'm not re-reading to make sure, though.
Fortunately, this wasn't the first novel by Elizabeth Peters I have read so I know she can write much better stories and create more interesting characters.
…. It only is readable if you give up trying to follow all the twists and turns or think about the logic of what is happening… basically just sit back and try to enjoy the ride.
– Jessica receives a letter from her previously unknown grandfather ordering her to England before he dies and she is to bring her dead father’s ring with her.
On her way there she is reading a gothic mystery and winds up sitting next to the author of the book who decides to accompany her to her grandfather’s estate.
And grandfather has just died.
I recently checked it out as an audiobook to listen to while on a trip and enjoyed it just as much as I had the first time--and in the decades since I'd read it originally, had forgotten pretty much all of the details, so it was almost as good as reading it for the first time!
This book didn't disappoint, and the fact that it was written looonng before technology made keeping connected with everyone so much a part of life really wasn't a problem.
But it didn't affect how much I enjoyed it, so I guess it doesn't really matter!
It just felt a bit 'first'draft'.Paragraphs would begin with a train of thought that wasn't explained until further down the page, which is a very frustrating way to read.
To me it read like the author just wanted to get her ideas on the page, she really then needed to go back and tidy them up.
This is a nice light change from some of the more serious books I've been reading lately and was also a checkmark on my extensive to-read list as I had read all of the other Vicky Bliss novels.
Although, I'm not sure where Vicky Bliss or any of her characters falls into play with this storyline.
One of these days, I'm going back to the start of all of Elizabeth Peters' books, and I'm going to read all of them.
The Elizabeth Peters books are more tongue-in-cheek but full of interesting characters and tons of locale/historical information.
I give numerous 4’s, but few 5’s.
This novel is such FUN!
I don’t tend to read romances, but I adore Camelot tales.
Jessica, an American, gets a letter from a grandfather in Cornwall asking her to come see him.
When she arrived in the British Isles, two men appear tracking her and suggesting violence.
She escapes into a bus, where the riders plot how to protect her because, “ We don’t allow things like this in Britain.”Then she runs across a man who believes her story is a prank, because he writes mystery romances.
It gets even more convoluted after that!Believable?
What a sweet little mystery story!The story follows Jessica and David who are strangers when they meet on a dark and lonely night, in a dark and lonely little inn, in a dark and lonely little village in the English countryside. It's all very edge-of-your-seat stuff as they are chased by villains and then end up chasing them from town to town in search of some mystery or treasure or something.And of course they inevitably fall in love ;).
The author seems to try too hard to put historical background into the book and as a result her heroine comes off as rather flighty. She supposedly being chased by two men but she frequently stops to go sightseeing and/or get lost in the scenery.Still, the book is a quick read with a few good comedic parts. Definitely a 'caper' mystery, if a somewhat shallow one.
Dreadfully written, with a completely pointless mystery and mechanical romance. I couldn't figure out why the writer liked the helpless heroine, and why she liked him enough. Very boring and irritating all round, except for the fact that they went to some of the same places I went to last year - Wells, Glastonbury, Bath and Cornwall in general.
I love Elizabeth Peters, but this felt strangely disjointed, as though there were chunks of missing text. Perhaps an issue with the audiobook recording? Plot was very nonsensical, romance was thin and undeveloped, bad guys poorly coordinated. Not her best work. Felt more like a travelogue of Southern England with a plot tacked on to make it saleable.
POS on my SOUB. I can't believe the creator of Amelia Peabody came up with this drivel. Not funny, scary, romantic or mysterious, but clearly something she wrote with one hand tied behind her back and the other outstretched for the big check. A waste of my time and her talent. Only rates 2 stars because it was such a quick read I finished it by accident.
Maybe this one should have been called John Tregarth #1 rather than Vicky Bliss 0.5, considering the fact that Vicky never shows up in this story. John, however, does, leading his erstwhile cousin, Jessica on a merry chase through Cornwall. At least the off the cuff statement Vicky makes in a much later book finally makes sense - about John building Camelot in the back pasture ... Meh.
