https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196743.The_English_Teacher
I liked the story too (I won't spoil it by giving it away) but the metaphysical aspects were not believable and once I reached that part of the book, it became a bit heavy-going.
Of the four Narayan books that I've just read (in chronological order), this one is by far the fullest and most full of story, rather than detailing a very small episode in life.
However, it is also supposed to be the most autobiographical and given the un-believability of the metaphysical aspects of the story, I can only give a slightly-amused sidelong, raised eyebrow look and say 'Really?'Read July 2009
Krishna, a young English teacher, is portrayed as someone who loves his wife deeply.
The novel is primary a story of a Brahmin man and his world.However, the text reveals what the author seeks to hide.
Krishna, the English teacher, has never really loved his wife.
Until she lives, we never see him once talking to her in a loving, passionate way one associates with young man.
For instance, at the railway platform , when Krishna meets his wife Susila (it is the first time, we sees them meeting in the text), he has nothing to say to her.
Later, he makes contact with Susila in the spirit world and starts a new, more fulfilling job teaching children, away from the strictures of the formal syllabus.An intensely moving story, which is all the more powerful because Narayan does something quite rare – tells a love story between two people already married - in this case the cautious and somewhat inhibited Krishnan (even though he displays an early cynicism about the English authors he has to teach to his college students) and the spontaneous, practical and determined Susila, whose character brings out Krishnan’s resolve and determination.
I found RKN’s house, and later a bookshop where I talked with a man who had met the author often.•	Started the day feeling better than I have for some time – always a good sign.
And because of the problems of the last third, it can't be bumped up to three, sorry.This novel cannot be discussed without complete spoilers, so(view spoiler)[This is the semi-autobiographical story of Krishnan the young English teacher who has a lovely wife, Susila, and a baby girl, Leela, and life is looking good, and then she catches typhoid randomly and takes quite a while to die.
But then, Krishnan, beset by grief, and this is a novel about grief, encounters a medium who can speak with the dead, and who, by means of automatic writing, demonstrates this by taking dictation from the spirit of Susila, long elaborate dictations.
A bold step inside one, as Voldemort will confide if you prod him hard enough, will blast your nose to smithereens if you're foolish enough to breathe while you're at it.
Desperately seeking relief from his miserable plight, the conscientious Indian, the model citizen who otherwise has the convenient option of watering and nurturing a young sapling, is ready to prance around puddles and stand in impromptu queues holding his breath to reach that unearthly place called a much-delayed piss.
The English Teacher taught me that some public toilets won't just haunt your dreams and permanently damage your sense of smell, they can kill you.
It was called The English Teacher.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢معلم هندي يدرس اللغة الإنجليزية في مدينة هندية صغيرة في أواخر عهد الإستعمار البريطاني. هنا تجد التفاعلات حافلة ومكتوبة بأسلوب حي وقريب للقلب.
We see Krishna taking small steps, making preparations for his wife and child to join him and so setting off to find a good house, where they can be together as well as have a space away from each other.
The discussions with his fellow teachers and Krishna’s thoughts about teaching and family were amusing and I was all in the mood for this novel to be a delightful read.
I know Narayan is celebrated in both India and the western world, but I don’t really have much knowledge about the stance he took on these issues and how Indian novelists writing in English are regarded nowadays.
I swear that if anyone else, any other author would have crafted the story line similar to this book, I would have hated him.
Must have cursed him with all my heart and would also have made an attempt or two to leave the book midway.
But no sir, not Mr. Narayan.
We are incorrigible morons if we look to Bhagats and like for inspiration when the master has already left him most precious gems behind.
The magic of Mr. Narayan lives and with it lives my love for the one who is for the masses.
On another level, it explores what gives meaning to work.
Krishnan's lack lustre role as an English teacher is contrasted with the passionate commitment of the poor school master who runs a preschool for the neighborhood children.
Teachers of literature would be able to identify with the exhilaration of seeking to enthuse students about great works of literature as well as the soul numbing throes of dissecting literary texts to prepare them for exams.
Through the travails of Krishnan, Narayan takes us on a quest for the things in life that truly matter.
R. K. Narayan is an absolute favourite of mine and some of his works are undoubtedly masterpieces.His The English Teacher is the third part of Narayan's trilogy after Malgudi Days and The Bachelor of Arts (for review, you could check out sandyi.blogspot.com. The first part of this particular book is brilliant and extremely touching but the second part moves into very unexpected territory, leaving one a bit confused. Yet, if you are a Narayan fan, I would still go ahead and recommend this book to you.
Reading R.K.Narayan is like time-travelling to another dimension. Hypnotized and disconnected from reality. The English Teacher is no exception. It is a journey towards understanding life and death!
I love the way Narayan writes so that you can hear the Indian voices. Doesn't really matter what the story is, he gives you a glimpse into another world.
K. Narayan✎Publisher: Indian Thought Publications ✎Year of Publication: 2016✎First Published: 1945 (In England)✎Genres: Novel, Autobiographical Fiction✎Number of Pages: 280The novel was the third part of Malgudi Days series written by R.K. Narayan preceded by Swami and Friends (1935) and The Bachelor of Arts (1937).This story is not about mere the intuition of an English lecturer from Albert Mission College named Krishna but the nectar of life he discovered through the candour of belief.In the hostel Krishna’s life was irksome and wearisome.
The boy accompanied him to a man and a pyol beside a Shrine by whose he got her beloved wife Susila back.
One of the best ever book that I have read in my entire life. Real gem. Such a refined tone. It relates to the story of the main character of the story Krishnan's loss of his wife and his various attempts to communicate with her soul. Through the sorrows of krishanan, Narayanan takes us to the many things related to life that mattes a lot.
One of the best stories by R.K Narayan. The story is completely unexpected and the suspense is thrilling. I like the second half of the book when the story took an unexpected turn and hook you to the seat.I heard a lot about this book and was very keen to read. I absolutely loved it.
But I really can't help.I started reading R.K. Narayan a couple of years ago and I have read 'Malgudi Days', 'A Tiger for Malgudi', 'Swami and Friends', 'The Bachelor of Arts' and just finished reading 'The English Teacher'.
It was heartbreaking and after God-knows-when, tears rolled down my cheeks and landed on the book as I followed Krishna, the protagonist, who's an English teacher, as he suffered irreplaceable losses and struggled to make peace with his past.
An intensely spiritual book.
And an intensely human book.
It has the whole myriad of experiences a normal person would have in his life.
You smile along during the happy days of the couple, you get this sinking feeling when the wife falls ill, gets worse day by day.
You feel the husband's utter despair when he loses his wife.
You need not believe the metaphysical part in the book.
One has to face fears, failures, successes, happiness all by themselves.
No one can experience them for you.A must read book in my reckoning.
An intensely spiritual book, the transition in the narrator's life from being a bachelor to moving on to a happy married life...and the consequent death of his wife is heart touching. A particularly moving part of the story is the description of the day when his wife dies. The way he seeks to find her presence in his surroundings.. his supernatural encounters.. the innocence of his daughter... the most insignificant details are perfect and in sync with the storyline. This book is nothing short of a masterpiece... one of my all time favorites.
I found 'English Teacher' quite different from R.K.Narayan's other works. It may be because this one is more serious and deals with the spiritual side. It is a poignant narration of how the loss of a loved one(for Krishna, the protagonist) or from constantly waiting for death to deciding to live life more fully(for the schoolmaster) changes the course of life.
A nice read! Found the 'platonic love' between Krishna and Sushila more inspiring and the later 'spiritual love' more ecstatic! R.K.Narayan has the connection of the scenes in a nice flow and one need not look back to revise before reading further.
This was a fairly simple book to read, once I got myself into it. It is compelling and interesting, but it wasn't until I reached the final paragraph that I felt it was truly beautiful.
of English.His father suggests to fix up a house on rent and start his life with his wife, Sushila and the new born baby.House has been fixed.
His mother leaves for her house to join her ailing husband after a week's stay.Krishna is quite happy with his present life, with wife and child around him.His fahter suggests to buy a new house.
She is taking good care of his daughter and also the cooking and maintaining the house also.
His mother is coming to his house and after a week's stay takes the child with her to her village.
The English Teacher is about an English teacher, who has been working away from his young family for a while at a university in the Malgudi universe, the setting of many of Narayan's other works.
However, his wife and young daughter soon move in to a rental house Krishna must find on his time off from teaching.
This young family is very middle class, working hard at finding a suitable house and making sure that Krishna, the title character, is bonding with his daughter.
The illness of Krishna's wife and how he deals with it touches upon the simple but truthful elements that Narayan always includes in his novels.
It may blur memories or emotions but its NEVER heals.
When we suffer the tragic loss of a near and dear one, it is impossible to forget that person, no matter how many years pass by.
Thats why i say time never heals but it helps us to put memories and emotions into a small box at the back of our mind.
As time passes we open that box sometimes and rummage through the memories and emotions.
I guess that's just how the human mind works and copes with loss.
Similar is the plight of the protagonist of this book.
K Narayan books and certainly not the last.
I found here wonderful writing.
What made this wonderful was the way he wrote, feeling like I expect India feels.
I also liked the contemporary feel despite the book having been published in 1945.
The part that I found out of kilter was the focus in the second half of the book on what I took to be magic realism.
Here the writing changed – our English teacher moves beyond modern thought and practices without a second thought.
This seems wildly out of character at first blush, but I can see the point Narayan may have been making.
A different take on Spirituality.
While i was reading this book, i got typhoid, which was really strange(not sure if that is the right word to use here) since the teacher's wife in the novel was down with typhoid too and she dies.
I gave up reading this book right away after getting to know that i was down with typhoid.Part of me giving such low ratings is due to this.
Its too much of coincidence.
I dont know what made me to take up the book again.Well, i have finished it .
It was a light read.
I expected more though.
Didn't like the intervention of supernatural powers... otherwise 5 star stuff!!Husband wife relation is very cutely and realistically portrayed! The child is very innocent raising cute little curious questions everytime :)
K. Narayan and I feel I should name it the eighth wonder!
K. Narayan (I will rate it higher than "The Guide").Here's my favourite part of the book...“I returned from the village.
The law of life can't be avoided.
The law comes into operation the moment we detach ourselves from our mother's womb.
All struggle and misery in life is due to our attempt to arrest this law or get away from it or in allowing ourselves to be hurt by it.
A profound unmitigated loneliness is the only truth of life.
"The English Teacher" is all about life and its reflections.
At times, the life will take us by storm and throw us in abyss.
Yet we may have to find happiness for one or other reasons.
Likewise, Krishnan, the protagonist in this novel loses his beloved wife and starts living solely for his young daughter.
Despite several frets and frustrations he finds a way to lead a contented life.
The author has penned the story in a very beautiful way.
For others, "patient reading" is what it takes to adore this beautiful novel.
Disappointing. One of the most annoying kinds of disappointing actually. The one where it starts off great and then goes nowhere at all. So the beginning was cool, reminded me of Rohinton Mistry and his glorious A Fine Balance with its colors and sounds and all. A bit Dickensian. Then it loses it and becomes blunt. Dull. The man published a gazillion books so maybe there's treasures to be enjoyed elsewhere but it's not here.
