https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9305362-captive-prince
WARNING: I'VE BEEN DRINKING.*hiccup*You know-*gestures with wine glass**sloshes some over the side*I mean, this book-*licks wine off fingers**tries to refocus*What was I saying?
This fucking book, man.
A prince betrayed by his bastard of a brother.
Sold into slavery to an enemy nation.
You know who he's fucking sold to?
*raises voice*To an even bigger bastard than his brother!
*sits back down*A prince named Laurent.
I want to do terrible things to him.
I want to write myself into it with a sword and carve my vengeance from the flesh of Damen and - God help me - even Laurent's enemies.
I am firmly of the belief that this series will one day become a classic in the M/M romance genre.
This book is utterly disgusting.There are so many things wrong with Captive Prince, it’s hard to know where to start.
I love seeing LGBT relationships in books, but the characters in Captive Prince are either sex slave owners or sex slaves themselves.
Since I’ve seen people argue that the book isn’t that bad because the main character doesn’t actually get raped himself, I’d like to point out that forced oral sex is still rape.
In Captive Prince, Damen has oral sex forced on him, and although he does have an orgasm, that doesn’t change the fact that, as a sex SLAVE, the act is in no way consensual.
*blushes* Despite those facts, I really liked this book.
A prince, now a slave, he has to learn to completely change his personality, his will, his natural instincts, in order to be survive.
Against every rebelling instinct, he forced himself forward, and dropped to his knees before Laurent.‘I fight in your service, Your Highness.’ He searched his memory for Radel’s words, and found them.
Oh, how about the fact that he makes Jericho-fucking-Barrons look like Prince Charming?
The fact that I grew to like Laurent and sympathize with him is a testament to the author's skills.No, I will not be reading m/m all my days.
The focus of this book - indeed, the whole series, it would seem - is on the relationship between two men, and their relationships with other royals, guards and slaves around them.As romances go, it has everything I could ask for:1) A really slow burn that makes a nice change from all the instant gratification NA romances I've read.2) Characters that grow and develop with the plot.3) Chemistry, both sexual and otherwise.
Plus, a nice bit of hatred turned to reluctant partners in crime turned to...?The main story goes like this: Damen is a prince and the heir to the throne of Akielos.
Little flummoxed by this one. It's an epic fantasy but focuses more on sexual slavery than any sort of active plot. I don't feel the sexual slavery/rape culture was promoted as "good or acceptable" but just underlining the depraved society, buuuuuut. Mine eyes are too young for this. Plus if your master orders you orally raped and then later slave + master start having a thing...let us just say: no.
For this book, I am making an exception, because I am sick of seeing this shit in literature and people praising it.Captive Prince is marketed as "slave erotica." I should've known, way before reading it, that it wouldn't be my cup of tea, but curiosity made me buy it, and I regret it immensely.
Damen, our 'captive prince', made to be a slave, is almost raped, is drugged and tortured and treated worse than an animal, all for the entertainment of nobility.
We scream for equal rights until our throats are fucking raw and bleeding, but when a book comes out where a man is repeatedly tortured, drugged and raped, we CELEBRATE it?
I think if you read this, you need to know several things in advance just to make sure that you don't automatically hate it: 1) it's graphic book centered around sex slavery 2) major trigger warning for rape, abuse, and pedophilia 3) literally every single character in this book is gay or non-straight and 4) there are zero female characters.
All of these things combined made the first half of the book almost unbearable, but there was one nugget of light that got me through it, and is continuing to push me to want to read the sequel: there is something about the characters, their depth and complexities, that makes me want to know their inner workings.
TRIGGER WARNING: rape, physical abuse, pedophilia I am so excited to continue with the next book, the way things ended I can tell that things are going to pick up and get REALLY intense!
LOVED.
However, they were all worthwhile and highly entertaining books.'Captive Prince: Volume One', introduces us to Damen and Laurent.
The two are princes from rival kingdoms, only Damen's true identity is a secret to everyone in Laurent's court.
Laurent is clearly a character that enjoys head games.On the other hand, Damen is a character that has instant appeal.
The anticipation, and resulting anxiety, was immense.For most of this book, Laurent portrays a spoiled, bratty and cruel prince.
Without missing a beat, I dived right into the second book to continue Damen and Laurent's story.Check out more of my reviews at www.bookaddicthaven.com
So yeah, I think what I want to say is that C.S. Pacat shouldn’t be blamed for mentioning those topics, because for some people they were actually reality (ancient Rome and Greece instantly come to mind) and in fact still are a part of some people’s reality.
Brought as a gift for Prince Laurent he is supposed to be the young heir’s pleasure slave, a role that revolts Damen immensely and makes it exceptionally difficult to keep a low profile.
*lol* I think it’s because I know what’s coming in the next two books and to be aware of the plot made this reread such an interesting experience.
6/4/18 https://www.amazon.com/Captive-Prince...*This book owned me today, completely owned me.I just have to give S.
It is going to be hard to write a review of just Volume 1 because I read them back to back like a rabid fan-girl so I'll just review them together.
It is the masterful, smart writing that sets this book apart.
The writing is so crisp and fan-freaking-tastic that it gives each word the power that it is due.
It is like a ballet dance of words, and I don't think I'm being too complementary or over-exaggerating.
More like a 3.5, I had some issues with it, but OMG. IT WAS GOOD! I'm gonna marathon the trilogy!
*shakes fist at curiosity gods* As one might guess from the title (if one pays attention to things like titles *shakes fist at self*), the MC of this tale is a prince (Damen) made captive .
Obviously, as a prince, Damen isn't too keen on becoming a sex slave.
Enter Nicaise, the thirteen-year-old "pet" of a dirty old man in Laurent's court.
THE CAPTIVE PRINCE by C.S. Pacat is a deeply flawed book, despite its low page count.
At time it feels like some of those reviewers are trying to make the people who enjoy, for example, FSOG bad with themselves because "they are supporting a book that portrays an abusive relationship".
So anyone who enjoys FSOG or any other bad-reviewed romance, but never says it aloud for fear of how their opinion will make them look in a site like GR where people trash "abusive relationship" books, should say it aloud.
I don’t know what the fuck to make of this book but suffice it to say I finally understand why many find it polarising.
What the fuck is a story without a well rounded, well constructed plot anyway?
please excuse my language but fucking and/or raping.
Or fantasying about fucking and raping.
I understand the need to inform us the basics and inner machinations of the court politics to set the scene for how they treat their (sex) slaves and whatnot but all the rest was just like, okay, I get it: They’re fucking demented.
Compelling Reading...I was totally engrossed from start to finish....5 Fabulous Stars Captive Prince, literally captivated me! this is amazing storytelling and I can honestly say I picked it up to read and did not put it down until both book 1 and book 2 were finished.....it was 5am, but I was hooked! These 2 books are FREE, yes, can you believe it, such a great story is free to read. The only down side is that there is no news on book 3 yet, however I have noticed that she will be publishing b
Ohhhh and the characters, easily recognised with their personalities and individual voices, my favourite being Laurant, so cool and aloof, with graceful beauty and an air of contempt, arrogant and nefarious in his actions, with each nuance and idiosyncrasy so clear in my minds eye...he is definitely an enigma.This is a fabulous read, I loved it and I happily recommend it to all of my friends, well...those that have not already had the pleasure of reading it and are also waiting with baited breath for the next book!For more reviews, please visit...Sinfully Sexy Book Reviews
Readers,what do I say about this book?? Power. Brilliance. Excellence. All delivered in one perfect package.  This is fiction at its finest!!! Captive Prince..... This is what they mean when they say that a book has the ability to transport you to worlds beyond!! And was I ever???This one gripped me in it's powerful clutches,and did not let go.This is what I look for in a book.This book entranced,enchanted and devoured me.And I loved every minute of it!!------------------------------------------
Readers,what do I say about this book??
This is what they mean when they say that a book has the ability to transport you to worlds beyond!!
I am a survivor myself, and I'm fully aware that this book bothered a lot of people.
I can fully understand why someone would NOT enjoy this book, but I loved it.
Of course, Damen is the only genuinely likable main character in this story, and all other prominent figures are raging douchebags, but there are a few lovable side characters (like sweet little Erasmus), or minor characters that are terrible but pitiable (looking at you, Nicaise).
If you think you can handle it, though, and enjoy stories of political intrigue/royalty/betrayal etc., I highly recommend this series.
glorious.review to come; the bonus story at the end of this edition has rendered me completely useless.holy shit.______________previously:watch me twerk it to da left! twerk it to da left! twerk, twerk, tw-twerk it to da left!______________previously:fucking awesome.dafuksit with these ozzie writers kickin' ass? lisa henry, s.u. pacat... (also: supacat. niiiiice. [ETA: author has since chosen the pseudonym C.S. Pacat]).can't even be troubled to write a full review. i've got volume two to read.more later, when my passion for these characters has been consummated further.gonna get wet.(it is alleged.):-P
I've been meaning to write a review for this for a while because there is an OVERWHELMING amount of positivity surrounding the series and I just...
ZERO.The other outstandingly terrible feature of this novel was the writing.
It makes your writing sound like it's trying too hard.When I tried to return this book
I was excited to read a m/m love story with a medieval essence but all I found here was a boring foray into absurdity.***P.S. 10 points to anyone who got my Spongebob reference before reaching the end.******P.S. x2 I did actually end up reading the second book in this series and you can find my review here if you love a good weenie roast!***
I neither loved nor hated this book and I was surprised about that since it tends to bring out very strong emotions in people.
I'm going to be doing a full review on this book, but wanted to touch on a few things here since it is such a controversial read.
Firstly, I've always planned on reading this entire series regardless of if I hated the first book.
But there is definitely more grey area and room for discussion of consent in this world than one might think going in, and that's probably why opinions on this series are so black and white.
“A golden prince was easy to love if you did not have to watch him picking wings off flies.”My body is ready.I really enjoyed this rather quick and easy read.
The writing is uncomplicated but captivating.
It all seemed very authentic and well researched.Above all I'm totally shipping Damon and Laurent.
I'm very intruiged to find out more about Laurent and what's going on in this wicked mind.
I also hope to see more of Erasmus and his master.It won't take long for me to pick up book 2, that's for sure.Find more of my books on Instagram
If you saw any of my updates on this book then you will know I absolutely hated it.
I was excited to read this because of the number of rave reviews I have seen and I am honestly shocked.
Did I read the same book as everyone else???
I did not enjoy a single second of this book but I kept reading to see why people could possibly love it so much.
I still don’t know.
And to my surprise that wasn’t even the worst of it.
Why is this book so loved???
This is quite possibly the worst book I have ever read.
4 Stars.This has been on my radar for so long.The ridiculous price but me off,so I was so happy when
😍ORIGINAL REVIEW (A bit revised after a reread) I don't have much to say in this review except that it's extremely well plotted and written because this is only the first book of the trilogy and the story is still blossoming.
😂)So we have two extraordinary MCs in this fantastic story, the former crown prince of Akielos, Damianos and now a pleasure slave called Damen and the current crown prince of Vera, Laurent.
Things are getting very interesting since Laurent is facing with a very similar fate with Damen since his uncle, the current regent of Vera, covets his nephew's throne.
Re-read 2/6/15...because book 3 finally came out and - not gonna lie - I can't remember SHIT about books 1 and 2...My bad!  Original Review: This will be short because my laptop is dying and, quite frankly, I'm feeling lazy as shit. Tah-Fucking-Dah. I went into this knowing it was more political intrigue and less m/m romance... I just didn't think it would be ALL political intrigue and NO m/m romance. Obviously, the seeds have been planted for future shenanigans, but anyway, that's my only grip
Re-read 2/6/15...because book 3 finally came out and - not gonna lie - I can't remember SHIT about books 1 and 2...My bad!
This will be short because my laptop is dying and, quite frankly, I'm feeling lazy as shit.
Tah-Fucking-Dah. I went into this knowing it was more political intrigue and less m/m romance...
I just didn't think it would be ALL political intrigue and NO m/m romance.
Yes, yes, I know that it's technically CHILD MOLESTATION and that I should be more like this:And less like this:But what can I say?It will be interesting to see how that all plays out.
I swear that I'll write a real review of Captive Prince: Volume One because Helloooo, it deserves ones, but for now my excitation and eagerness to freaking KNOW what will happen leads me to shorten my ramble and only give you reduced information (perhaps that's for the best) (you don't want to read my entire rambling) (trust me)☑ Welcome to a harsh and unforgiving world where slavery (including sexual), torture and rape are common practice (including towards youngers, which makes the book so fucking hard to stomach at times).
‘More like the other way around.’ ‘Pretty sweet orders for a bed slave.’ The taller’s mind stuck on the subject as the other grunted noncommittally in reply.
‘Think what that’d be like, getting a leg over the Prince.’ I imagine it would be a lot like lying down with a poisonous snake, thought Damen, but he kept the thought to himself.Laurent, this guy is a manipulative son of a gun, he is a sadist, he likes mind games , i wanted to hate him but nope I actually loved him.“Is ambition needed in a king?” said Laurent.
