https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86160.The_Ugly_American
Worse still, the American bureaucracy wasn't interested in the opinions of the Foreign Service staff that did study and understand the cultures into which they were placed.Given that this book was written at the tail end of the McCarthy era, the insights of Lederer and Burdick are quite exceptional (in fact, some government agencies sought to ban the book in Asia and in many ways that (failed) effort can be seen as one of the last "scenes" of the McCarthy era).
Burdick and Lederer are at once, tongue in cheek, cynical and satirical in their views of American foreign policyEvery time that I read this book, I can't put it down.
The book was important to me because it solidified the idea that we are all walking a path that is unique and the more that we are engrossed by our own path, consumed by our own needs, wishes, and desires, we will miss the beauty and uniqueness of every other person and every culture under the sun.
The book is timeless in that we could once again be called Ugly Americans or perhaps more accurately Oblivious Americans or Arrogant Americans or Self-Absorbed Americans.
1.5 stars.I'm so glad this semester is almost over because my Political Science class has the worst reading curriculum. This book was so dry/bland and the explanations were incredibly long winded. I skimmed the last 70 pages for the purposes of writing my essay. Never again, I say, never again.
I don’t care where you work for Uncle Sammy, you’ll be living with a gang of clean-cut Americans…You can buy the same food in Asia that you can in Peoria…When you live overseas it’s still on the high American standard.” (79-80).So, how does this measure up to my experience as a 7-10 year old kid living on Kadena Air Force Base?
Homer Atkins, a.k.a. the Ugly American after whom the book takes its name, is an engineer fluent in Sarkhanese and determined to improve the lives of the people in the country through simple, effective technology.
This ugliness sets him apart in a world where appearance is considered more important than common sense:‘”Dammit,’ said Homer Atkins to himself as he looked around the room at the fashionably dressed men.
If you've ever heard the term "ugly American" used, this is where it originated. And, if you want to understand why many folks from other countries refer to some Americans using that phrase, this book will make it crystal clear why they do. Excellent read!
Tying the whole together is a dedicated U.S. Ambassador to a fictitious southeast Asian country called Sarkan, who travels the area honestly trying to educate himself on the situation.To put it bluntly, The Ugly American is an insult to the intelligence of the reader.That puts me in a bind on rating this work.
Even if everything this book's authors recommended had been done, it would have been nothing to counterbalance America's betrayal of it's own ideals in Vietnam in favor of an ideological battle with communism.A 1963 movie was made from this book, starring Marlon Brando as the U.S. Ambassador to Sarkan.
I was surprised at what a page turner it was and read it in just a few hours.In the 1950s, America had decided that the USSR was our greatest enemy, that Communism was dedicated to the eradication of our "way of life," that foreign aid was the solution to successfully overcoming these threats to freedom and democracy.
America, it would seem, was born in revolt against a powerful enemy and so must always have one selected to keep us going.The point in The Ugly American is not that we should fail to fight against Communism, but that we were going about it in all the wrong ways.
Recently, while reading another book about the French fight in Indochina and how we inherited Viet Nam from that effort, I ran across the backstory on "The Ugly American" and decided it was time to get a copy.
The gist of this work appears in the chapter that shares the book's name: "'The simple fact is, Mr. Ambassador, that average Americans, in their natural state ,if you will excuse the phrase, are the best ambassadors a country could have...
This book still holds a stark message: If we are doing business in someone else's house, we should send the best Americans we have, even if we've won the political fight to keep Khrushchev and Mao from eating up the Third World.
Because of this book, I missed my bus stop, delayed running, and stayed up hours later than normal.
I hated and loved the characters and only wish this book could be 4x as long.The only thing I didn't need was the epilogue, which goes out of its way to point out the book's themes and connections to reality.
If you're not ignorant of the concept of metaphor, skip the epilogue and leave Sarkhan with MacWhite.Side note.
I was so engrossed in the characters that I now feel incredibly defensive toward Atkins, the "Ugly American," who ironically represents the best of Western culture.
A political novel which was a bestseller at the time (1950’s), on how the United States is losing the struggle with Communism, what was later to be called the battle for hearts and minds, because of arrogance and failure to understand the local culture.
The only one (in the novel) who’d understand the local people and their needs, is a simple looking American engineer who lives with the local people for a long time, helping them in small projects”این رمان در اوایل دهه ی 1960 بصورت فیلم درآمده که هیچ نام و نشانی از آن به یاد ندارم.
People that have good intentions and want to understand foreign cultures.
That’s the fascinating stuff.What’s more Lederer seems to present a false choice in describing these two types of people, suggesting that a development worker can simply choose if they want to be an ugly American or a sympathetic one.
Lederer makes that point strongly when he writes, “The little things we do must be moral acts and they must be done in the real interest of the peoples whose friendship we need—not just in the interest of propaganda” (267).
But its power is that it’s a good reminder: tiny battles, cultural sensitivity, assessing needs, acting in a supportive rather than commanding role.
Lederer and Eugene Burdick is lifelike and rich, a sometimes wry and ironic panorama of the mid-1950s ideological and military front lines of the Cold War drawn, we are informed in the Epilogue, often almost directly from the authors' own experiences in Southeast Asia.
The authors do, however, at least show with care the motivations of a disparate host of well-meaning and motivated characters on this side of the Bamboo Curtain, whether religious or military men or idealistic rather than opportunistic diplomats, trying their best to help free peoples live as they themselves choose.
Fictional book about American foreign policy in fake country resembling Vietnam. The stories and people are based on real events. I learned about this book from a US Army Special Forces book reading list. Too quick of a read and too thought provoking NOT to read this book.
The book begins with a story of what can happen when the Diplomat doesn't speak the language or understand the culture of the country he is supposed to be serving.There are many lessons to be learned here about being a foreign diplomat & I think they covered them all in this short, easy read.I did think the authors' short description of Marx's teachings to be off the mark, but the rest of the book is pretty spot on.Sherrie Miranda's historically based, coming of age, Adventure novel “Secrets & Lies in El Salvador” will be out en Español soon.
Lederer and Burdick managed to pen something that was both enjoyable and fictional yet based in historical fact.
There are a lot of characters to keep an eye on, which is something my professor mentioned beforehand.
The story manages to be tongue-in-cheek and critical while also offering characters the reader can root for.
If you decide to read this, you better not skip the Factual Epilogue!
If you do, you basically didn't read the book.*It's hard to say whether their suggestions would have been effective with better results or if they could have even been implemented so immediately.
They don't even hold an interest in the country they go to as far as these people are concerned, the nation stops once they reach the outskirts of the capital city (or the "green zone").
One can argue about safety concerns but the fact of the matter is that we can't sit in our ivory towers and yell down at all the "peons" that mill around below us and expect to bring about any effective change.Another criticism the book gives is that our foreign policy for the most part consists of simply throwing money at a problem.
Things such as: attempt to learn the language of another country if you plan on being there for a while, don't spend all your time hob-nobbing with other Americans, learn what it is like to live like a local and befriend them, etc.Nowadays, it seems that the militarism so entrenched in the situations proposed in this fictional-but-somewhat-based-on-facts has given way to "voluntourism"--that awful word for the even more awful scourge of Americans going abroad with a core objective in mind ("I'm teaching the natives to grow corn!") and coming back with nothing but cute pictures with local children.
Because of this book, I am dedicated to at least starting to learn the language of whatever country I live in.
I intend to have my children learn local languages, find local friends, pursue local activities.As I reread The Ugly American, I was reminded why I feel so strongly about these issues today: everyone deserves to be met on common ground.
I am grateful for the changes in American foreign policy that allow my husband and his colleagues to avoid many of the pitfalls described in this book, and I intend to reread it now and then as a litmus test to maintain awareness.
I've learned, or I'm trying to learn, not to trust my first instinct when it comes to books.
Once I'd passed a hundred pages though (I appreciate that sounds like a lot) I really enjoyed it and even went back and read some of the earlier stories with new appreciation.
The book has a powerful message, that of arrogance and colonialism and some of the stories and characters were devastating in their portrayal of ineptitude and racism, that belief that some 'other' is somehow inferior to you.
Here is what I wrote in 1965:Authors accomplish true excellence in their main objective.
--- to show the fallacies of the United States diplomatic corp in underdeveloped countries.
The setting is Southeast Asia where many of the failures of American diplomacy are already apparent and where Communism is threatening.
The main objective is achieved through satire and irony of situation.
The main objective is shown through the effects of good men and bad men in the corps.
They are joined by the roles they play in the existence of Sarkhan, a country in Southeast Asia.
This book had a big influence on American foreign policy in the second half of the 20th Century.
The phrase “ugly American” has come to mean people who act like many of the other Americans in the book.I hope the United States doesn’t return to the bad-old days of making foreign policy without reliance on career professionals in the State Department who understand local language, customs and problems.
And I hope the United States does not abandon important programs for winning hearts and minds like the Peace Corps.
I seriously doubt that I knew/know enough about American politics (let alone American politics in the 1950s) to fully appreciate this book when I read it. But, it was an interesting and profound commentary on incompetent foreign policy. I read it when I first moved permanently from the U.S. to Denmark, and I found it quite valuable as a metaphorical lesson in the importance of engaging with and learning local culture, customs, language, history, etc. I'd love to read it again if I could find my copy...
How many people remember that the "Ugly American" of this book was the GOOD GUY? And maybe the ONLY good American in a cast of mostly venal mendacious idiots? How ironic that the term has come to mean the exact opposite. It's hardly a masterpiece of great writing but it has remained with me over decades as a pretty powerful statement of its time. I can seldom resist comparing books to the movies they spawn, and almost always the movie loses. This is no exception: the Brando flick was pretty tedious.
One feels that there are but two characters in this book, one good and the other bad.Furthermore, the prescription for being a handsome American in Asia (learn the language, eat the food, speak with the locals) is so consistently and successfully applied that this (surely the books core message) comes across as the greatest oversimplification of all.These were my thoughts as I was reading the book.
The book shows both negatives (arrogant, racist westerners who refuse to learn the local language and live like kings amidst poverty) and positives (the titular "Ugly American" who more or less single-handedly works with the locals to create small businesses, and does so by learning the language and understanding their culture).
The Russians were far, far better at working with other cultures than Americans, and this book outlines why.The most amazing thing about this book, and the most heart-breaking, is that it was first published in 1958.
This book was much better than I expected.
Instead of bashing America's approach to fighting Communism in the 50s and criticizing her flawed foreign service system head on, The Ugly American uses humor and wit.
Supposedly The Ugly American helped spark changes in the foreign service and perhaps even inspired the founding of the Peace Corps.
What's incredible though is that this book is as relevant today as it was when it was published over 50 years ago!
Looking at America's foreign policy, has anything really changed?
These are the questions The Ugly American makes you ponder.
Lederer and Eugene Burdick’s commentary on American capitalist fighting and diplomatic tactics in Asia during the Cold War. It relentlessly repeats its message in a variety of ways throughout the twenty chapters—that Americans need to develop a more complex and in-depth understanding of other countries and their cultures and languages to be able to persuade them most effectively to keep in line with American policy.
The Ugly American offers a fascinating (and disheartening!) peek into U.S. foreign policy post World War II.
The authors develop rich and colorful characters that vividly form in your mind, and whose emotions you can feel.
You come to cheer for the good guys and boo for the bad ones.
The authors masterfully weave their work together.
This is a hard book to put down.
Beyond being a entertaining and enjoyable book, there are of course the ugly truths - some of which have surely been addressed over the years, and others which unfortunately still run rampant.
The trouble brewing in Sarkhan and its neighbors serves as a snapshot of the mid-1950s when America was wading into the quagmire the French left behind in Indochina.Perhaps the ugliest American in the book is “Lucky” Lou Sears, a three-term U.S. Senator.
But enamored of big military-industrial type development projects, Uncle Sam turns him down.In Vietnam, we meet Homer Atkins, the Ugly American of the title.
Scorned in Saigon, the Ugly American is invited to Sarkhan, where Ambassador MacWhite challenges him to build sustainable water systems in the boonies, an assignment Atkins relishes.
Very dated, the startling revelations promised on the book cover are mostly well known at this point. The prose was painfully obtuse and unimaginative, the whole thing was written like a field report. Very little variation in sentence structure, and all of the characters lacked nuance or were boring characterization. Very right wing perspective as well, in my opinion. I recently finished Graham Greene's "The Quiet American" which was a much more interesting and nuanced story of the damaged wrecked by colonial powers in Indo-China.
