https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248584.Juniper
Gorgeous book. When I read it as a kid, it blew me away--I'd had no idea that a book could give one such a magical experience. This was one of the definitive reads of my childhood and one of my first exposures to the fantasy genre.
I loved this book even more than I loved Wise Child. It made me want to learn about herbs. It made me want to learn how to use a spinning wheel. You know what? I did learn a bit about herbs, mostly how to cook with them. And I still think it would be badass if I owned a spinning wheel.
By 'atmospheric' the blurb writer means 'subtle.' Just as lovely as Wise Child. Either could be read first, tbh. Perfect for young girls who are wondering about the Pagan religion, but not anti-Christian at all. Women have their own strengths, their own perspectives... and their own initiations and apprenticeships. Science and magic, struggles and joy, life and death are all necessary parts of the whole and health means balance.Not that Furlong actually said anything of that. She just tells a story. ;)
This is the best book in the whole world.
It was the best book in the world when I read it 119732933014 times as a child, and it is the best book in the world today after not having read it since at least half my life ago.
I loved it every bit as much as I did when I was young; it was easy to see why I read it so often, and the ways in which it shaped me as a human being.
Reading it again gave me chills in all the right places.
I may have to just read it again every few weeks like I used to!
I loved Juniper more than Wise Child when I was little, perhaps because Juniper is a book about a princess and I was a girl who liked princesses.
There are also more characters in this one: Juniper has lots of friends (well, lots of friends for a very short book) even if many of them don't spend much time on the page.I haven't gone back to check, but I think this differs a little from the growing-up story Juniper tells in Wise Child.
The stakes are probably higher in Juniper - the stakes in Wise Child are very personal, which is important!
These books are really comforting.
That’s how I found my way to Juniper, one of my first young adult books, first experienced when I was in middle school (which, I’m beginning to realize, was a pretty long time ago).
Ninnoc starts off the story living a privileged existence, and is a little spoiled as a result.
I found I actually remembered little from my original reading experience (save for the scene Juniper/Ninnoc has to kill the pig.
One thing I noticed while reading this book is how different young adult books are today, as opposed to when this was published (1990).
I really like Juniper's point of view. I read this before Wise Child...I wonder if that matters
I really liked to read about this spoiled girl growth to a serious woman.
Good, but not as satisfying as Wise Child, perhaps because Wise Child raises some expectations about Juniper's story that aren't quite met.
It's easy to see why -- Juniper is a story about Juniper's childhood and her first experience of adult powers (just as Wise Child is about that part of Juniper's pupil's life), and of course Juniper did not stop maturing and learning and becoming herself after her very first adventures.
But it makes Juniper feel a bit as though it's about a different person than the one I knew in Wise Child.

I liked the book but felt that the storyline was a somewhat predictable coming-of-age tale - separation, transformation, and return. The medieval setting, characters, and fantasy elements were all appealing, though, and I plan on reading the sequels to see what happens to Juniper and Gamal and the other residents of Cornwall.
I LOVE this series. And I don't usually particularly gravitate toward this sort of thing. It's almost a fantasy novel for people who don't like fantasy novels. Can't get enough.
loved this book!
3 stars simply because I liked Wise Child better. Juniper is still a wonderful read.
I read this book as a child, and it’s interesting to go back and reread (in preparation for Colman, the third book of the trilogy and the only one I’ve never read) the whole series.
I vaguely remembered that this one came before Wise Child chronologically but was apparently written afterward (pretty sure I read Wise Child first originally), and I’m not sure if one reading order is preferable to the other.
It’s a very classic, old-timey children’s fantasy novel, and very feminist in a low-key sort of way.
I needed a little book-comfort so I am re-reading some of my favourites.
Monica Furlong's Doran trilogy came to me at a time in my life when I felt particularly lost, and I've read them multiple times since.
It's hard to really describe the impact they have had on my growing up, but as a young person reading about Juniper, in addition to enjoying the story, I was struck with inspiration for "this is the type of adult I want to be." I still need reminders every so often, but these books are gentle and centring.
I loved this book just as much as Wise Child. It makes me want to have a giant loom and take up wool dying, spinning, and weaving. It makes me want to learn more about herbs and be a good, kind person. Monica Furlong writes childhood emotions that ring true. Once again, 10/10 for having everything in a book that Shannon could ask for -- witches, crafts, lessons, a strong guardian/child relationship, empathy, and an understandable antagonist.
Growing up I used to love reading stories that were mildly fantasical and very nature based, and I hadn't realized how much I missed that. This was a very beautiful, comforting, and somewhat nostalgic read.
This was almost a more kid friendly Mary-Renault-style historical fiction. But in the end it tips into genre fantasy by taking the magic seriously in the modern readers head, not just the characters world view. I found it interesting and engaging.
I loved this book as a child and was surprised to find it out of print -- I had to order a used copy. Would love to see it made available on Kindle. This story is beautiful and meaningful and deserves to be shared.
My daughters loved this book 20 years ago and my granddaughter enjoyed it this summer.
Enjoyed this book & series very much.Definitely worth reading multiple times...
I just love this book and this series.
This was one of my favorite books when I was a kid.
I thoroughly enjoy the magical world that this author has created, but I didnt enjoy this book as much as Wise Child.
It's light teen fantasy. I'm looking forward to reading the sequel.
Exceptionally engaging. Because Wicca is involved, children and young adults from very religious homes are probably not a good fit, but otherwise, highly recommended. Strong female protagonists, and they're well developed. A favorite of my daughters and my students.
It’s a prequel to Wise Child, which I owned and read dozens if not hundreds of times, and which I still own; and it’s the story of how Wise Child’s teacher Juniper became a doran—a witch, essentially.The Wise Child books take place in mostly-pagan early-medieval Cornwall, which is awesome.
Juniper must then use her fledgling doran powers to save Gamal and the kingdom, and defeat Meroot and her weird sorcerer-knight husband who can turn into a giant scary dog.
Both stories are about young women who live with a doran, but Juniper deviates from Wise Child's focus on the nature of love and family: unlike Wise Child, Juniper comes from a stable and loving home.
This theme of self-discovery is worthwhile and interesting to readers of all age groups: it's instructive and comforting to the young, and reminds older readers that the sacrifice and reward of self-discovery is never really over.Perhaps the biggest difference between Wise Child and Juniper is the role of magic in the books.
