https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365307.An_Unsuitable_Job_for_a_Woman
James was 57 at the time this book appeared, which suggests that she probably didn't have a lot of contact with the young people of that era and didn't begin to understand them.The protagonist is a plucky female detective named Cordelia Gray, who also sounds like she just stepped out of the 1940s.
Cordelia accepts the case and promptly moves into the primitive country cottage where the boy took his life, apparently to be as close as possible to the investigation.It will come as no surprise to anyone who's ever read a crime novel, let alone one in this particular sub-genre, that before long our intrepid heroine will begin to suspect that Mark Callender didn't actually kill himself but rather was murdered.
In this case,let me say “judge a book by its memorable title.”I’d like this book to be categorized as a good literary fiction with human drama,not just a detective. This well-written,and austerely beautiful novel has no gadget,isn’t action-packed or sexy,but here one young female detective, who lost her mentor recently,walks the scenes,talks to people and getsto the heart of things.I guess this simplicity will let you feel empathy for the charcters. I sometimes wonder how deceptive the word“simple”is.P.D.James writes a good human story.
Where I got the book: my local library.My first shock of this review is checking Wiki to see where this novel comes in P.D. James's oeuvre and discovering that P.D. stands for Phyllis Dorothy.
And the heroine guesses the clue to the mystery (view spoiler)[(and that "clue" about the blood groups is reaching a bit imho) (hide spoiler)] and then the other key characters start filling in the details with cheerful abandon in a "oh well if you know that much" way.
(hide spoiler)]AND THEN (view spoiler)[all the murderers conveniently die, like Hamlet.
When that human being is dead, it can be dangerous as well as unwise."This is a reread for me, and I can't think why I didn't write a review before.
I adored this book in 2012, as it was probably the first literary mystery I'd read of its kind, barring Elizabeth George.
I always meant to get around to the second and last book in the short series, but never did.
I think since the time initially reading this though, I've read many other amazing literary mysteries that James' probably inspired.
Still determined to read the next book in the series, though!
"...even minor P.D. James characters are fully realized, given a pedigree, a school background and an attitude toward life," says the New York Times (in a 1997 review of a different book).
That chin and mouth seemed to Cordelia the living refutation that all men are born equal and she tried from time to time to like and sympathize with Miss Sparshott, with a life lived in bedsitting rooms, measured in the five-penny pieces fed to the gas stove and circumscribed by fell seams and hand hemming.Ouch!
Does this vivid description tell us more about Miss Sparshott, or about P.D. James, whose books are full of pitiful women like this?
Novice private detective, Cordelia Gray, is a very likeable character.
Left to figure the business out on her own after her partner takes his own life, Cordelia is hired by the successful scientist, Ronald Callender, to determine why his son Mark committed suicide.
But did Mark really commit suicide?
This is what Cordelia questions and seeks to divine for herself.
This book was wonderfully descriptive and exciting; unfortunately, I have just learned after finishing that there is only one other Cordelia Gray mystery in the series.
It did one of my least favorite mystery things: having the bad guy die in some accidental or self-inflicted manner so that the detective character will have less mess to deal with.
And that happened three times in this book.
THREE TIMES.
Worse, as much as I really really wanted to like Cordelia Gray—James' female detective who's out to prove that solving crimes IS a suitable job for the ladies—I just couldn't get a sense of her.
With only a moderately interesting mystery backed by a main character who remains pretty blank, there's just nothing all that memorable here.
2.5 starsA very slow start and some slow, imo unnecessary digressions (to up the word count?). No surprising ending. Therefore I can't give it a full 3 star rating. On the other hand I didn't dislike it, so I feel 2 stars would be too low. Conclusion: 2.5 stars. Wouldn't read it again, don't know if I'll read anything by P.D. James again, although... I read in a couple of reviews that some people who normally do like her writing didn't like this one either. So who knows, maybe someday I'll give another book of hers a try.
Once a while, I like to read a crime/mystery novel.
That does not mean that I hate reading crime novels.
In fact, it is otherwise.
It should challenge my intelligence as I tend to find out the culprit myself from the evidences presented.
It should present me with some interesting facts.
If a crime novel contains all these, at the end I feel happy for having read it.This novel presented everything and specially I loved the last part where the mystery once solved went on for another chapter which was equally engaging.
That is unusual for a crime thriller.
Reading this book was a pleasure.
Unlike many cozy, and English mystery books, there are quite some prurient quips lying about.
But the author comes into her own element when describing Cambridge.
Conversely, the author knows how to turn the style on and off.
The main victim, Mark Callender, is a character that can be liked by some and disliked by others.
Even death here is seen differently from the characters at various points in the narrative.
I was interested to know how the author would hide her hand.
The truth of the case was as startling as reading this book proved to be.
Cordelia Gray finds herself the sole proprietor of the Private Investigation business she shared with her now deceased partner. Her first case is to investigate the suicide of a young man from a wealthy family who dropped out of college to become a gardener. There's no doubt it was suicide...or is there? Cordelia moves into the gardener's cottage and talks to his college friends to uncover the truth, often facing folks who really believe hers is an unsuitable job for a woman. This is P. D. James' first novel of Cordelia Gray and it’s brilliant.
James' descriptions of characters make them immediately three-dimensional, and you are pulled along with Cordelia Gray as her invisible Watson.
I found Cordelia to be a very real character and although the book was published in 1972, it's still mostly timeless.
It's not that sex and violence don't exist in this world, but you need not slog through page after page to imagine what it's like trying to get blood out of a carpet.
This doesn't seem like an emotional novel, yet I have a fondness for the characters (even the evil ones) that comes from an interesting story that's well-told.
I first read this novel 30 years ago and had forgotten just how good it was.
I was worried that it wouldn't be as good as I remembered.
I will go back now and read the second Cordelia Gray and wonder why there arent't any more.Cordelia is a young, innocent detective called in by a rich man to investigate the suicide of his son.
In the last few pages Adam Dalgliesh makes an appearance which is a nice surprise.The best part of this book is reading an interesting mystery by one of the greatest crime writers ever.
It also made me think of my friend who introduced me to PD James 30 years ago.
Interviews with informants played out languidly, instead of cutting to revealing parts.
Bernie Pryde was an ex-police officer, who recognized sleuthing talent in Cordelia.A risky decision at the end is a doozey, flying against the formula of the mystery.
I don’t think anyone could connect with her, by design or not, because her personality wavered in making itself known.
Cordelia was always working out something.Observational skill and intelligence inform readers of murder.
For example, why would a thorough personality quit a nearly-finished flowerbed row?
In her twenties, Cordelia suited Cambridge University.
I love her frequent remarks that “her interviews must be the strangest ever conducted”, perched upon campus lawns!
She is asked to try to find out why he killed himself by the father.(view spoiler)[ as it turns out the father has killed the son in the first place - so would he really hire someone to look into the death?
Apparently he is trying to find out who else knew about the death as the body is tampered with in order to cover his tracks, and yet it is supremely stupid to hire someone to investigate a murder you knew you had committed!!
The man who hires her is his father, and it doesn’t take Cordelia long to realize that murder is the far more likely cause of Mark’s death.The search Cordelia undertakes reveals surprises, twists, elements of danger and all that you’d want in a well written murder/suspense/mystery/thriller novel.
True, it doesn’t rush through things at a breakneck speed designed to give one nightmares after staying up all night reading it, but it doesn’t need to do so.
I like Cordelia and am strongly considering reading the next one.
Find another badass woman to add to your fave list of badass females: check.
I used to read mysteries like crazy in high school, but somehow I never read P.
Her work has all of that typical coziness of the British mystery, but because the main character is a private eye, it doesn't strain credibility like Miss Marple or something, constantly stumbling onto another murder.
Not that I've anything against Miss Marple.
Also, P.D. James is just a good writer, period, genre or no.
And so that phrase is sort of ruined for me, but I felt about this that I was really a really good piece of literary fiction that just happened to be a murder mystery.
The man who hires her is his father, and it doesn’t take Cordelia long to realize that murder is the far more likely cause of Mark’s death.The search Cordelia undertakes reveals surprises, twists, elements of danger and all that you’d want in a well written murder/suspense/mystery/thriller novel.
True, it doesn’t rush through things at a breakneck speed designed to give one nightmares after staying up all night reading it, but it doesn’t need to do so.
I like Cordelia and am strongly considering reading the next one.
He only plays a cameo role, but he is mentioned many times.
It is really the story of a young woman in the 70s who is having to make it in the world on her own.
The book is full of the culture of the day; when young women were raised to do the washing up, make tea, and not challenge men.
But, it is also the 70s, a time of breaking down social roles.
Her job as a detective is considered 'unsuitable' by most, yet it seems to suit her.The case is a suicide of a young man that has left many questions.
PD James is the finest mystery writer today I think.
Her vocabulary is not only challenging, but spot-on.
When she uses a word, it belongs where it lands.
She is marvelously well read, and laces her narrative with beautiful quotations from classic authors.
Her mysteries are always intriguing, and I've never figured one out before the end.
I started with one of the last Adam Dalgliesh novels and worked my way backward to the beginning.
Recently I realized that she wrote two novels about a female detective named Cordelia Gray that I had somehow missed.
Five enthusiastic stars for Cordelia!
Another good read with twists and turns in the plot. I enjoyed the fact that the protagonist was a young woman who was detecting for the first time on her own. Again, the writing was wonderful with great use of vocabulary and an interesting storyline. I will continue to read this author. It is refreshing to see that even after the age of 40 an author can produce a fascinating series of books. This lady just recently passed at the age of 94 but leaves a great legacy of novels.
Saw more Dorothy L. Sayers in this than in any of the previous James books. Was looking for a mystery and saw this had Cambridge as a setting. My daughter leaves for there this week. Wanted to give her something fun to read for the journey. She's going on a course and has lots of mandatory reading.
Very much of it's time! Despite the title 70s attitudes to society, women and crime.
P.D. James is one of those authors who I have wanted to read for a while now - most notably Death Comes to Pemberley, so when Sophie lent me An Unsuitable Job for a Woman I was more than happy to read this book.
Unfortunately I didn't find it particularly good.I'm not entirely sure why that is either, Cordelia came across as a well-rounded character, the world she was in seemed pretty realistic.
The writing was good, well formated, conversations between people weren't overly stilted unless it was clear they were meant to be.
I've always found James' work moderately clever, but overrated.
I mean to say - Jeeves - I can understand having a low opinion of your fellow creatures, but OTOH, who of us is without sin and you gotta love the little bastards anyway.
Love 'em into insensibility.
How are any of us getting any better otherwise?
We can do better than that.Since I've marked this as spoilerish, I can freely say that Cordelia's girlish, 'secret' crush on a geezer old enough to be her granda - and a geezer every bit as charmlessly sour as James herself seems - makes me urp and heave.

This was the first P.D. James book that I have read. It was well written and kept the reader guessing about who actually committed the crime until almost the end and there was even some additional drama after that. I am not sure that I like the overall theme of the book. I have a couple of other books by this author; I may give them a try
Why not read one of the authors and characters that made those two series' possible?After her partner commits suicide and leave's Pryde's Detective Agency in her sole possession, Cordelia Gray has been waiting for a case.
Sir Ronald's song, Mark Callender, suddenly and without warning dropped out of Cambridge to take on work as a gardener in a nearby manor home.
Sir Ronald, needing to understand his son's behavior, hires Cordelia and the case begins in earnest.Cordelia's first stop is the gardener's cottage where Mark was found.
Nothing in Cordelia's interactions with Mark's friends would lead me to this conclusion.That aside, this was not my book.
What was even more frustrating to me was that the author had the audacity to try to lampshade this once, when a woman Cordelia has met not ten minutes previously is pouring out every single family secret she's ever kept in an eight-page soliloquy and comments, "I've told no one but you, my dear, and I'm not sure why I've told you," which felt like when one of the massively self-obsessed people you follow online tweets something about "lol i'm SOOO self-obsessed" as if acknowledging the fact makes it not a problem anymore.
