https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/305787.30_Days_to_a_More_Powerful_Vocabulary
Overall, the book is one of the better ones. It is not soporific, and if words are your bete noire then its the book to help you make them your forte. Its certainly not for plebians and dilettante. The greatest message inculcated in the book is that to use words adroitly you need not belong to an esoteric circle.
An excellent method for expanding your vocabulary. Each chapter is on a specific topic, and a list of relevant words is presented (with definitions). Then multiple tests are given to help you in the memorization process.
I need to confess 30 days to build a "powerful" vocabulary was beyond what I am capable of--It virtually took me more than two months to “breeze through” the book, in part because I procrastinated a lot.
The fact was I am the hit-and-run type in building new words.Sorry, author.One of the merits of the book is that it was compiled orderly, putting those identical words in a same chapter each containing no more than 20 new words, quite a reasonble amount.And I deliberately ignored some chapters …Maybe next time when reading and encountering a word from the book, I still need to turn to the dictionary after racking brains without any clues,but the process of reading is of a lot fun--at least I got an indelible impression on one word:clandestine.I would very much steal a kiss from someone clandestinely and vapored instantly.
An old book: 1942. Funny how a lot of these words are not used, or are so commonly used they were not new. One very interesting note in the penultimate chapter though was how our language really has changed so much. Just a mere 300 years ago King George told Sir Christopher Wren that his architecture of St. Paul's Cathedral was "amusing, awful, and artificial." Indeed a compliment when it really meant amazing, awe-inspiring, and artistic! I love language!
Outdated. Published in 91. Best part is the index. Take a look at the words in the index, check off the ones you know, look the ones you don't know up in the thesaurus. Ta-da, a more powerful vocabulary.
I completed this book on a vacation. It was fun and interesting and a learned a lot of new words. I have been meaning to go through it again, but I think I'll not do it so fast this time and only do the 30 minutes a day.
I am a complete word nerd- so I adored this book.
After going through this book I kept seeing those vocab words pop up everywhere. Before I would have had no idea what those meant.
I found the 1974 edition of this book on my uncle’s old book shelf.
I’ve been doing basically the same job for fifteen years and figured my non-professional vocabulary had stalled out so I though it wouldn’t hurt to learn some new words.
It turns out I knew most of the words in this book already, and some of the words I learned I probably will never have a use for - weltschmerz, vainglorious, uxorious, somnambulism – to name a few.
Weltschmerz?
Wow, my Word program doesn’t even recognize this one.
This book was REALLY dated.
Ditched in the middle. Though you can see the author putting efforts to teach you good vocabulary, I don't think this book will serve the purpose. I still believe the best way to improve your vocabulary is still the traditional one: read books regularly and try to incorporate the new words in your language.
Awesome book
Just adorable. Really adds a lot of powerful words to your vocabulary and also enriches our language.
I have the 1942 print of this book. So, some of the language being used has shifted and changed when read by someone of 2011.Great book to get engaged in language and learning not just new words but the source of words. The only little chapter which talked about current words whose meanings were different years ago was a great example of how language lives and changes.Would highly recommend this to anyone interested in increasing vocabulary.
Helpful little book with a variety of good exercises and tips to build vocabulary, but some of the word usage is outdated. For those on a tight study schedule, it can be completed in less than thirty days without losing learned word retention.
My honors english teacher in high school (sophomore year?) used this as a text book and I still find myself cracking it open every now and then. My husband and use it to quiz each other just for fun! I know, we're weird.
I had to read this book in high school and thought I should revisit it. It was good...not any amazing technique for getting you to learn words. Just repetition, learn new words every day. Some of the words I will probably never say again in my life (ochlocracy?) but who knows.
A book with good qualities, simple to read, fun exercises but many of the words are obviously outdated and I have never encountered before. A book like this would be more beneficial if it had been written within the last 20 years.
Okay.
Second reading: 7-30-2007
"Where I learned the meaning and use of words such as sycophant and osequious. Unfortunately, they're still not part of my everyday lingo."
Woohoo. A book for geeks like me who enjoy spending time learning big words. (Which I rarely use in normal conversation, mind you. I have to dumb down my word choice for some of my friends...)
not interesting as like "word power made easy"
Subtly helps you "level up" your vocabulary.
