https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3950967-the-tales-of-beedle-the-bard
To hurt is as human as to breathe.”The first time I heard of The Tales of Beedle the Bard was - of course - in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
It's always going to remain a mystery to me.This is an amazing, original collection of wondrous and beautiful, cruel and magical tales.
If someone can create fairytales that feel like they could be in Grimm's collection, then it's definitely J.
I never thought it possible that someone could write a fairytale, that feels as old and as magical as the ones I grew up with.
(B) 75% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Nothing special but no complaints, just a solid set of bonus stories that remind you how fun Harry Potter books were.
عندما يتحول عمل أدبي إلي عالم حقيقيلايهدف فقط لأمتاعك، وإنما أيضا يحاول خلق عالما أفضل...يغير من شخصيتك وافكارك للأحسن والأجملوهذا الكتاب سيشعرك فعلا بهذا العالم العجيب الذي ابتدعته جي كي رولينجالكتاب مترجم عربيا للقراءة هنا  حكايات بيدل الشاعر هي مجموعة قصص كتبت للسحرة والساحرات الصغار , شهيرة كشهرة سندريللا و الاميرة النائمة لدي الاطفال "غير السحرة"تتشابه قصص بيدل مع قصصنا الخيالية الشهيرة في ان الخير ينتصر ويكافأ و الشر يعاقب . الا ان هناك اختلاف واضح, في قصصنا الخيالية يكون السحر موجود في اص
الا ان هناك اختلاف واضح, في قصصنا الخيالية يكون السحر موجود في اصل المشكلة التي يواجهها البطل او البطلة - الساحرة الشريرة تسمم التفاحة, او تجعل الاميرة تنام مائة عام , او تحول الامير الي "وحش".اما في حكايات بيدل البطل او البطلة يمكنهم عمل السحر بنفسهم, بالرغم من ذلك يجدوا صعوبة في في حل مشاكلهم مثلنا بالظبطفالقصص تساعد الاباء السحرة في شرح لاطفالهم ان السحر يسبب مشاكل بالظبط كما يمكنه ان يعالج.اختلاف اخر هام هو ان الساحرات في قصص بيدل "البطلات" فعّالات اكثر في البحث عن حظهم عن بطلات قصصنا, فهم يطوعون مصيرهم بايديهم بدلا من النوم لمئات السنين او انتظار من يعيد لها فردة الحذاء المفقودة.ولتشابهه توجهات بيدل في قصصه التي تهدف للمساواة بين السحرة والغير سحرة و نبذ السحر الاسود, مع دمبلدور"الناظر السابق لمدرسة هوجورتس لتعليم فنون السحر"..قررنا بعد اخذ موافقة ماكونجال الناظرة الحالية ان نضيف الملاحظات التي كتبها دمبلدور عن قصص بيدل في هذه النسخة بجانب الترجمة الجديدة للقصص عن طريق هيرميوني جرينجر..
English (The Tales of Beedle the Bard) / Italiano«There was once a kindly old wizard who used his magic generously and wisely for the benefit of his neighbours»Directly from the Hogwarts Library, with commentaries by Albus Silente, here we have a collection of stories for young witch or wizard, the equivalent of muggle fables for muggle kids (namely un-magic children).
Damn!Vote: 7,5«C'era una volta un vecchio mago gentile che adoperava la magia con generosità e saggezza a beneficio dei suoi vicini»Direttamente dalla Biblioteca di Hogwarts, commentate nientemeno che dal Professor Silente, arriva una raccolta di storie per giovani maghi e streghe, l'equivalente delle fiabe babbane per bimbi babbani (ossia per bambini non magici).
Apparently I'm getting this for Christmas. ROCK ON....Having not read this yet, my favorite part was that on the day it showed up on Amazon it immediately placed above Breaking Dawn for most preorders ever received (currently in system, obvy). It was like, okay, everyone who says Smeyer is the new JKR. Smackdown.Finally read, years later: Loved it.
Aw the feels...
I felt very warm and fuzzy reading new JKR.
How can I not love an alleged children's writer who mentions murder, mutilation, cannibalism, adultery, and bestiality all within the span of 110 (ultra-short) pages?
The stories are on the meh side, but Dumbledore's commentaries showed a smart, literary eye that reminded me briefly of Pale Fire.
I'm all, "Hey, JK, you did your thang." Be that as it may, I'm a bit offended by the Dumbledore's anti-anti-Muggle bias.
Sometimes I look in the mirror and I think, "Go back to where you came from, Mudblood!" So I did -- but the staff at New York Presbyterian wouldn't take me back.
Gah! The Tales are awesome and the illustrations are spectacular =) Well, what did you expect with those two! Just gonna leave some pics down below ↓The one below is a big pull out pic in the book! OMG! There are tons more but don't y'all think I added enough pics? I do, I'm tired now! Enjoy! Happy Reading! Mel ♥
I absolutely loved these stories, as well as Dumbledore's commentary.
I can't believe how much effort J.K. Rowling put into every single aspect of her series, just to make it that much more wonderful.
I love how she wove magic into five completely different stories of her own making.
This takes so much time, effort, and devotion and I will forever be grateful for all the love that she puts into her books.
Hopefully in the future I will also read these to my children along with the Harry Potter series.
Every addition to this amazing series brings me so much joy and I can't say enough good things.
It felt like it was trying too hard to be part of wizarding universe rather than actually being part of it.
There are glimpses of this book through the full Harry Potter series, and we hear about its nature, but I don’t think seeing it here changes much.If anything, my perceptions of the book are lessoned because it just didn’t live up to expectations.
It’s supposed to be this legendary book containing dark stories perhaps a bit similar to Grimm’s fairy tales in the real world.
All in all, it’s a book written for the strongest of Harry Potter fans.
Reading a Hogwarts' library's book with the fables taken from ancient times in it along with the notes and guidance of Dumbledore himself, is a magical feeling beyond explanation.With every J.K.Rowling book, before reading it, I instruct my mind that you are holding a brilliant collection in your hand, and so it turns out to be.The five legendary tales in The Tales of Beedle the Bard, took me to the time I used to hear tales from my grandparents when I was a kid and they were with me.
A great book to have in a Potterhead's collection, with the stories that every child who wants to perform magic must know.I just want to add this image here though it might seem not related :
And may I just say that the illustrations (by Chris Riddell) are the absolute best.
I stared mostly at them.
Like hm, yes, the fairy tales were great, bUT THOSE ILLUSTRATIONS.
I will forever be disgruntled that not all books of ever are illustrated.
If you're going o read Beedle the Bard, I say 10/10 go for the Illustrated edition.
I loved The Fountain Of Fair Fortune!
LOVE the wizarding world.
It was light and Dumbledore's footnotes were pretty funny aND THE ILLUSTRATIONS AFJDSKALD.
Excuse me while I just go back to staring at them forever.
If you know me, then you may know that I've tried to read fairytales from the Grimm Brothers, Hans Christian Anderson, and from the collection of Arabian Nights and have been unable to finish any of them because I honestly didn't like the stories and thought they were overly preachy and odd.This, however, will be the book of fairytales that I read to my future children.
The stories were a mix of wonder and darkness, of hope and love, and the extra notes from both Dumbledore and Jo were the perfect addition to this wonderful little book.
A sense of completion."The fairy tales of the wizarding world for the muggle readers."The tales are what the children of the wizards and witches have grown up reading.
The teachings and controversies drawn from the interpretations are no different than the muggle world.Books are banned, content is censored!
The message is loud and clear - face the consequences should you go immoral.Laced with emotions and selfless love are the stories of three women who seek redemption.Though,Babbity Rabbity takes the cake with her wit smacked aura.Verdict : Future schedule - reading this to my children pretending ourselves to be James and Lily Potter.
Taped across the front of the small buffet table was a sign that said "Join us at 12:01 for Tales of Beedle the Bard!" Needless to say, I squealed aloud with delight, and my best friend blushed with embarrassment at being seen in public with a squealing Harry Potter fan.
She told me that she would buy me the book as an early Christmas present, but I had to promise to love it.
And that very night, after I had finished the book, my promise was kept, and I loved it.
Zuerst einmal muss ich sagen, dass mir die Neuauflage aus dem Carlsenverlag rein optisch schon mal super gut gefällt. Der Inhalt des Buches besteht aus 5 Märchen, an deren Ende jeweils ein Kommentar von Albus Dumbledore folgt. Am besten hat mir natürlich das Märchen von den drei Brüdern gefallen, welches man ja auch schon aus den Filmen kennt (hat es noch jemand außer mir in Hermines Stimme gelesen?!) Für alle Potterheads einfach ein Must-read, welches auch einfach sehr hübsch aufgemacht ist und im Bücherregal nicht fehlen darf!
What a great and cute addition to the Harry Potter series! Fairy tales from the wizarding worlds which very much look like our fairy tales, but which are unique as well. I especially loved the tales about the hairy heart and the three brothers, and now I'm quite eager to watch the upcoming movie as well :) If you love fairy tales and if you love Harry Potter, I'm pretty sure you're going to love these tales as well!
Such interesting and sometimes also adorable stories! I really enjoyed reading this book and I think I'll never stop laughing about "Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump". That title is just amazing!instagram || my blog
I'm having a hard time deciding which is my favorite tale, but I'd lean towards The Fountain of Fair Fortune, with the The Warlock's Hairy Heart coming in a close second (if only it had been executed a little better!).Keeping in mind that these are wizarding fairy tales, with commentary by Dumbledore and translated by Hermione (oh MAN, wouldn't it be awesome to get into a crazy discussion about Hermione as a biased translator?
I think this was my least favorite out of the 5.Tale #5: The Tale of the Three Brothers: We know this one from Deathly Hallows, but 3 brothers run into Death, get the Elder Wand, the resurrection stone thing, and the Invisibility Cloak.
Finished my first book of 2015 and my first book of the Winter Biannual Bibliothon! This was a really great, short, fun book to start off with.
Ova priča je u čarobnjačkom svetu toliko jaka i važna da je iz nje proistekla najveća znana legenda - onaj čarobnjak ili veštica koji uspe da objedini sve tri relikvije smrti postaće nepobediv, a relikvije su ništa drugo do predmeti koje je Smrt dala braći na poklon nakon što su je prevarili.Odmah moram napomenuti komentare koje ostavlja Albus Dambldor nakon svake od ovih priča, dajući im novu dimenziju i pobliže nam predstavljajući ne samo čarobnjački svet, već i način na koji funkcioniše svaka osoba, bila ona normalac ili čarobnjak.
www.wearelumos.org
Ach Albus ♡
Rowling uses double spacing, huge margins and mediocre pencil art (that she drew) to stretch out what should have been some short stories published on the internet, a magazine, or saved for inclusion in a bigger book.
The tales are all very concise, you can tell she tries hard to make them deep and classical, but they fall short, and most fail to draw you in or make you interested.
After each story is a boring (almost arrogant) review by Dumbledore, who tries to convince you how great and meaningful they are.
لمحبي هاري بوتر ، حكايات بيدل الشاعر :)For the love of Joanne RowlingFor the love of HogwartsFor the love of Potter-headsFor the love of memoriesand for the love of magic..Always. picture upload sitesنسخة مترجمة :https://www.scribd.com/doc/221737268/...
"The Tale of the Three Brothers" is the only story also included entirely in The Deathly Hallows.عنوانها: قصه‌ های بیدل نقال؛ افسانه های بیدل قصه گو؛ قصه‌ های بیدل نقال؛ قصه های بیدل قصه گو؛ داستانهای بیدل شاعر؛ اثر: جی.کی.
رولینگ؛ مترجم: ویدا اسلامیه؛ تهران، انتشارانی تندیس، 1387؛ در 120 ص و مصور، شابک: 9789648944556؛ موضوع: جادوگری و داستانهای کودکان و نوجوانان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 معنوان: افسانه های بیدل قصه گو؛ اثر: جی.کی.
رولینگ؛ مترجم: جواد ثابت نژاد؛ در سال 1388؛ در 88 ص؛ شابک: 9789643073176؛ عنوان: داستانهای بیدل شاعر؛ اثر: جی.کی.
I just love fairytales that takes place in the universe the series originates from but I do wish we get a full,giant story book.Dumbledoor left Hermione 5 stories with his commentary that we get to read.• The Wizard and the Hopping Pot.• The Fountain of Fair Fortune.• The Warlock's Hairy Heart.This is a bit creepy but also the one I enjoyed the most reading.• Babbitty Rabbitty and her crackling Stump.and of course• The Tale of the Three Brothers that we all know and love.
What a wonderful little book!I especially enjoyed Dumbledore‘s words of wisdom.
Wow, I was so emotionally invested in this that I genuinely could not put it down.Dumbledore's notes really make it hard for one (or me) to believe that the Harry Potter world doesn't exist.Absolutely brilliant!
Strangely enough, I loved this one a lot more than all the other short stories by Rowling. Perhaps it's because they're actual stories with characters and even moral underpinnings, or perhaps this collection just hit the spot. :)I enjoyed Albus's voice here, but in the end, I think I simply enjoyed the tales for themselves. Little dark fairy tales. :) I have nothing bad to say about little dark fairy tales. :)
