https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1425874.Seven_Alone

"On to Oregon" or "Seven Alone" is the fascinating true account of the 7 Sager children, orphaned on the Oregon Trail in 1844, who chose to continue the perilous journey without their parents.
Led by the oldest brother, 13 yr old John Sager, the Sager children continued an additional 1000 miles of the trail, mostly alone and mostly on foot, after their parents deaths.
While this book was written by Honore Morrow, wife of publisher William Morrow, in 1926, a short account written by Catherine Sager Pringle, one of the actual Sager orphans, can be found here...http://www.pbs.org/weta/thewest/resou...
This was NY Times columnist Nicholas Kristof's list of favorite children's books, which he published earlier this year.
I hadn't heard of it before that.
Written in 1926, it tells the true story of seven children who make their way west in the 1940s after their parents have died.
It wasn't clear from the jacket copy that this was based on fact, but it does become obvious as the story unfolds.
I visited the Whitman Mission near Walla Walla, WA just last year so it was fun to see the important role that it played in this story.
And I really enjoyed this book.
I think this is a great book for boys. It is a fictionalized version of the true story of the Sager children. The real life connection with the Whitmans is interesting. Written in the twenties, it's worth reading -even with the fiction parts-because of the strong message on becoming a man by assuming responsibility and for the historical interest it sparks. There's an original account online by Catherine Sager of what happened after the book.
This is as gripping a pioneer story as I've ever read. It's based on the true story of the Sager family, who left Missouri for Oregon in the 1840s, decades before Laura Ingalls Wilder's family made their famous journey west. The Sagers weren't as lucky as the Wilders... both on the trail, and afterward. Having read the Wikipedia entry on the family, I'm now almost wishing I hadn't read the book.
My fourth grade teacher, Mrs. Diller read this to us and I thought it was wonderful. Now, after listening to it again after all of these years, I'm sure of it. It's a great read aloud and a nice tie-in to the history of the Oregon Trail. A bit of trivia for you...Honore Morrow was wife to William Morrow (of the William Morrow Publishing House).Oh, and a great narrator-Norman Dietz.
I have this book as "The Splendid Journey", picked it up in a jumble sale, hard cover. What a lovely surprise. A Children's book that is historical, full of adventure, and has many points to discuss or think about along the way. I loved it and look forward to reading it with my daughter - even though it is much more aimed at boys!
I loved this true story of a 13-year-old boy whose parents both die on the Oregon Trail, and he gets his 6 younger siblings (including a newborn baby) safely to Oregon. Incredible story.
I am reading this to the class, although the name of the book is different. On to Oregon is the story of the Sager family.
This is an incredible story about a family moving to Oregon. The family of nine start out and and only seven arrive. This is a great account of a real family, The Sager Family. A MUST READ!
The book, Seven Alone, by Honore Willsie Morrow, is about the trials and adventures the Sager family faced in traveling across the country, to Oregon.
On the way, the family runs into more trials than they had expected, which results with John, trying to continue to Oregon to accomplish his father’s wish, while caring for his younger 6 siblings.
The way that Morrow wrote Seven Alone, really helped me understand the things that John Sager and his family felt.
He always disobeys his father, he doesn’t like responsibility, and thinks he know more than everyone.
"Seven Alone" is a well-written story in a similar vein to Laura Ingalls Wilder's "Little House on the Prairie" books.
Based on actual events, one of the children as an adult recounts their journey through dangerous Indian territory and the untamed wilderness via the Oregon Trail in pursuit of the promises that filled so many Americans at the time.
It's considered a rare work for being an actual first person account of a family traversing the Oregon Trail.
It's adventure with heartbreak and struggle and tenderness--with descriptions of characters that will be hard to forget.
The book is a good read that I highly recommend.
Its a good Oregon Trail story- the characters go through a lot of hardships by themselves.One thing i dont like is how bratty John is in the beginning of the book, he doesn't have much respect for his father and makes every one else do his chores. He gets better as the book goes on although still somewhat rough.Also, the book could have a better title than " On to Oregon," because all that happens in the end is that they barely make it to someones house, i dont get it much. Like are they in Oregon?....
This is the book, read at age nine, which inspired my life-long love of history. I recently discovered a library copy of the 1946 edition, which is the one I read all those years ago. While re-reading the story, I again fell in love with the Sager family - their love, their struggles, their tragedy, their stubbornness and perseverance! An amazing saga of human endurance and triumph.
A book that straddles the 4/5 star line for me, partly because it straddles the nonfiction/historical fiction line. Very well told with lots of true elements. But there is conflicting information about the Sager children in the historic record. This book doesn't tell what is true and what is authorial license. Still, a terrific story and well worth reading!
John is traveling with his family to Oregon on the Oregon Trail. He is pretty lazy with a rotten attitude. But when his father and then mother die along the way, he endeavors to get all his siblings to Oregon without splitting up. This is his story. A good clean historical fiction for kids highlighting the difficulties faced by early western pioneers.
We'll Make it There--at all Costs!This book reads easily as we focus on 13-year-old John Sager of Missouri, who comes of age with grim immediacy on the Oregon Trail.
Suddenly John realizes that it is now up to Him to keep the family together (his mother's dying wish, as she entrusts the baby to his special care).
To remain true to his father's dream of homesteading in Oregon, John must lie, cheat and deceive.
This book is based on historical fact and only lacks a good map to help readers visualize the children's location, the geographic barriers and their destination.
This book inspired the movie ON TO OREGON.
This is probably the first book I ever read that had graphic and accurate descriptions of frostbite, for example.I can't say whether, at the end, I felt that the ordeals the children went through were worthwhile.
I think, for example, of the story of the Burke and Wills expedition North across Australia.
When Burke and Wills failed to rendezvous with their relief expedition, they joined a family of aboriginals.
Why didn't the children go to the nearest campsite or settlement?
I don't mean just a 'family' of nine.
I mean a full size group.
It was called "On To Oregon" at the time, its original title before being changed when a movie version was released.
However, I think the original title, "On to Oregon," is much more symbolic of the entire story and the mentality that caused 7 children to push on to their final destination in spite of terrific sorrow and hardships.
The story is well-written and has a wide-ranging appeal--preteen-aged children to 90+-year-old grandparents would find something appealing and uplifting in its pages.
"Seven Alone" is a great pioneer story about the persistence of humans in achieving life-long dreams in spite of mind-boggling challenges--a truly uplifting book.

Wonderfully tragic. Such a moving story!
My 4th grade teacher read this to my class. I remember loving it. I got it so my daughters could read it and I ended up reading it before them. It did not stand up to my memory. It was interesting reading it as an adult with a different perspective on the historical aspects of the book. I still think my girls will like it, I just think it will take more discussion and explanation than I remembered.
Very educational and interesting. Having driven some of this desolate and unforgiving countryside and mountain passes it is amazing to think of a band of kids completing the journey. For a tragic but even more gripping account of their later experiences, read this, which I copied from Melissa's review. http://www.pbs.org/weta/thewest/resou....
Quite an epic story of seven children led by the oldest brother just 13 years old over 1000 miles of wilderness into Oregon. What they endured was no less than miraculous. First their father died then their mother. The youngest was just a few months old when the mom died. Now they were on their own! Not only did they have the weather to worry about but lack of food and Indian attacks.
I read this wonderful true account of the 7 Sager children who walked approx 7000 miles to the Whitman Mission in Walla Walla, WA, just an hour and 15 min from us. If you haven't read this book or the Shallow Grave To Waiilatpu, you are missing out. There is also a DVD about this remarkable family of children.
I saw this book on a list of The Best Children's Books Ever in the New York Times and it sounded great! It is an exciting adventure of a real family starting out on the Oregon Trail around 1844 but this version is only very loosely based on the true story. Check out The Stout-Hearted Seven if this is a story you are interested in.
Their father thought the trip to Oregon would be fun but it turns out that both mother and father are dead. The oldest brother insists on bringing the whole family to Oregon. Facing the dangers of the trail with his six brothers and sisters. Alone! I like this book because it showed the expedition of a boy and how you could survive, if you had to that is!
As a child, I liked this book because it amazed me that kids could be as resilient as they were in this story. Many exciting/scary things happened to the children in this family as they crossed the plains by themselves in 1844; but it also has it's share of sadness. My daughter is reading it now and enjoying it.
It is a book about a famliy that moves to oregon for a better living, along with all of their kids (about seven). On the trip, the mother and father die and the oldest, John,is responsible for his little brother and sisters and to complete the trip his father had planned.
I'm not sure why this book popped into my head all of a sudden, but I distinctly remember reading it and seeing the movie as well. The book was definitely more grim than the film, and I may be off on the date I read it, but as soon as I remembered it I remembered how well I loved it.
