https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36529552-love-and-ruin
I confess that I wasn’t a fan of the Paris Wife and I liked Circling the Sun even less but Love and Ruin was a success for me.
Historical fiction, this novel chronicles the relationship between Hemingway and Martha Gellhorn whom he met while still married to his second wife, Pauline Pfeiffer.
Hemingway is portrayed as the great American writer at the height of his career and as, by the accounts I’ve read, jerk that he was.The love and ruin of their relationship is told from Gellhorn’s point of view.
Another sure sign of a good work of historical fiction based on a real person for me is that I want to know more about them and I want to get a feel for how well they are portrayed.
This was another strength of the book as I found myself taking time to read some online accounts of Gellhorn’s life.
“ She also wrote novels and essay collections.The book mostly covers the time that Gellhorn was with Hemingway and while I love several of his novels, there were times it was difficult to read about their relationship.
So much history is covered, Gelhorn determined to be everywhere and chronicle everything, all the while dealing with Hemingway and his mood changes,and trying to write her own book.This was a read with Angela and Esil, and these are just some thoughts I posted during our discussion.Hemingway was in many ways his own worst enemy.
Glad she had the guts and fortitude to leave him, though she did love him.
So I ended up liking this more than I thought I would and enjoyed watching Martha gain confidence and come into her own.ARC from Netgalley.Found this picture https://www.google.com/search?q=marth...
5 this is exactly the kind of historical fiction I can sink my teeth into stars to Love and Ruin!
Love and Ruin is exactly the kind of historical fiction I can sink my teeth into because of the time period, the characters, the flawless writing, and the tumultuous love story between Martha Gellhorn and Ernest Hemingway.
The love and obsession between Martha and Ernest was palpable and electrifying, and as is the case with many marriages and affairs, sometimes from the greatest of highs, the greatest of lows are found in the end.
Love and Ruin is available now!
She was a well- known and respected war correspondent covering the Spanish Civil War. Falling in love with Ernest Hemingway, a married man, was not on her agenda, but nevertheless she embarks on a long and tumultuous affair with him and eventually he leaves his second wife, Pauline, marrying Martha almost immediately after the divorce was final.
I didn’t care for Marty either on a personal level, disliking the way she acquiesced to Hemingway at times, and her apathy towards breaking up his marriage.
4 starsThanks to Ballantine Books and NetGalley for sending me this e ARC.This book is a fictionalized story of the relationship/marriage/divorce between Martha Gellhorn and Ernest Hemingway.
When she went off on a war reporting assignment without him after several years of marriage, Hemingway found another woman and divorced Gellhorn.
Gellhorn was the only 1 of his wives to leave him and he never forgave her.Some quotes: Spanish civil war siege of Madrid "Since the previous November, when Franco had locked his sights on destroying the capital, nearly every day had brought fire and death.
This novel chronicles the journalistic rise of Martha Gellhorn and her relationship with Ernest Hemingway.
Maybe I’ve just read too many books about Hemingway and those that he loved, hurt, destroyed, etc.
The interesting part of this book for me was Ms. Gellhorn and her accomplishments.
I’m ashamed to say that I didn’t know that she had published novels, but I plan to check them out.The love affair, then marriage and then “ruin” of her time with Hemingway seemed like a repeat of so much I had read about him and his exploits before that all I felt was relief when Martha finally divorces him and lives her own life.Of the three books that I’ve read by Ms. McLain I think this is probably my favorite and I would certainly look forward to the next novel by this talented author.I received an ARC of this novel from publisher through NetGalley.
However, because “Love and Ruin” and “The Paris Wife” highlighted Hemingway’s abysmal treatment of women, particularly his wives, those books weren’t a comfortable read for me.
The pain that Hemingway caused Martha and Hadley was written so realistically that I frequently wanted to punch Hemingway in the face, or some other body part.
When I could put Hemingway’s behavior in the back of my mind and focus on Martha (and Hadley), I really enjoyed both “Love and Ruin” and “The Paris Wife.” Thank you to Random House and NetGalley for providing an advance copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
4.5 starsThis book focuses on Ernest Hemingway’s third wife, Martha Gellhorn.
Martha was a respected and celebrated person with many accomplishments.
She was a war correspondent for 60 years, and an author in her own right, but the times were such that Ernest Hemingway often overshadowed her.The best parts of the book are Martha's travels as a correspondent, along with the descriptions of the Spanish Civil War, and the events leading up to WWII.
But it still gets all the stars for highlighting Martha's career and accomplishments.The best of historical fiction sends me to the internet to research events and people.
He comes off as much older than her, when in actuality, there’s just a 9 year age difference.
Initially, I had trouble connecting with Marty.
She goes to Spain as a reporter, but it’s ages before she actually writes anything.
The book is at its best when McLain is describing the war scenes, whether in Spain, Finland or during WWII.
It’s at its worst when Marty is describing her lovesickness for Ernest.
Meant to be all emotional and dark, they just fell flat to me and I could never believe it was his voice.
The ending is the best part of the book.
In this case, somehow my dislike for Hemingway — as a person, not an author — affected my reaction to Love and Ruin.The novel is a fictionalized account of a few years in Martha Gellhorn’s life.
Surely, one of the most interesting things about her is that she spent most of her life as a war correspondent and not that she was married to Hemingway for four years?Still, I appreciated the depiction of Gellhorn’s personality and the historical context enough to give this one 3.5 stars.I read this book with my lovely monthly reading buddies, Angela and Diane.
Paula McLain's Love and Ruin is a fascinating account of Ernest Hemingway's third wife, Martha Gellhorn.
One of the reasons I liked this novel better than The Paris Wife had to do with Martha Gellhorn herself.
She seemed a more fully realized person and character than first wife, Hadley Richardson.
Gellhorn had a life apart from Hemingway which made her interesting in her own right.
Her whole world was not Ernest Hemingway.
And she was also a writer who had ambitions for her own work.
This was an interesting read.
It made me want to read Gellhorn's work.
This book could easily have been a slam dunk for me - two celebrated and iconic historical characters falling in and out of love against the backdrop of World War II.
Martha Gellhorn and Ernest Hemingway live huge lives, working and traveling the world in some of the most turbulent times in modern history.
Both of their stars are rising; Gellhorn as an author and war correspondent and Hemingway at the peak of his career as the celebrated author of "For Whom The Bell Tolls." Gellhorn wants love and a fulfilling career.
Hemingway wants love and a sycophant wife.
Genre: Biographical Historical Fiction Publisher: Random HousePub. Date: May 1, 2018The author, Paula McLain, has made a career writing historical fiction memoirs.
Her most popular novel, “The Paris Wife” is a fictionalized account of Ernest Hemingway’s marriage to Hadley Richardson.
He invites Marty, and her mother, to his Key West house, where he lived with his 2nd wife and two sons.
I wonder if he needed a woman in his life to write his most famous novels.Ernest Hemingway truly was a larger-than-life individual.
His career hit an all time high with “For Whom the Bell Tolls,” while Marty, also a writer of novels, only received notice as Hemingway’s wife.
Love and Ruin is historical fiction centered around Martha Gellhorn, her career and her relationship with Ernest Hemingway.
I knew little of Gellhorn before reading the book, but liked her character quite a bit in the story.
My knowledge of Hemingway is limited and I know McClain’s books are fictional, but his appeal is lost on me, especially after reading two books focused on two different relationships with him - This one, and The Paris Wife, which was a decent read but I just wasn’t in love with it like many others seemed to be.
I enjoyed Love and Ruin much more, in part because I found Gellhorn more interesting and relatable than Pauline.
I enjoyed the writing elements incorporated in Love and Ruin as well as the travels.
Martha Gellhorn was a budding war correspondent when she met Ernest Hemingway, who was nine years her senior and already on his second wife with whom he had two sons.
"Love and Ruin" is a fitting title!Hemingway began talking about having a daughter with her since he already had three sons, but Martha wasn't much interested.
I'm glad this book wasn't so much about Hemingway as about Gellhorn who went on to become a famous war correspondent, journalist and writer in her own right.
It can become an obsession that ultimately destroys what is good, what is needed, and even love if it is allowed to continue unabated.
For Ernest Hemingway, his obsession with life and writing was eventually something that would be his downfall.
For Ernest, he easily moves on to the next Mrs Hemingway, but for Martha driven herself to be the competitor in Ernest's life, she seems to always be burdened with finding the next windmill to battle.
Martha was a woman who wanted desperately to be independent, be her own person, go her own way.
Martha was also a driven person.
(3.5) This is the weakest of the three McLain novels that I’ve read, but when we’re talking about a writer of this caliber that isn’t actually so much of a criticism. It’s strange to me that, having written a novel from the perspective of Hadley Richardson, Ernest Hemingway’s first wife (The Paris Wife), McLain would choose to tell the story of another Hemingway wife – this time Martha Gellhorn, a war reporter and author in her own right. When excellent books like Naomi Wood’s  Mrs. Hemingway  a
It’s strange to me that, having written a novel from the perspective of Hadley Richardson, Ernest Hemingway’s first wife (The Paris Wife), McLain would choose to tell the story of another Hemingway wife – this time Martha Gellhorn, a war reporter and author in her own right.
I read these sorts of books because I’m intrigued to know what the appeal of a great man is, and McLain reveals that plainly:“He’s my idol, Mother.
She became Hemingway’s third wife, the first being Hadley Richardson married to Ernest Hemingway from 1921-1927, the second being Pauline Pfeiffer from 1927 to 1940, the third being Martha Gellhorn from 1940 to 1945 and finally Mary Welsh Hemingway from 1946 to 1961.Th book is divided into parts, each dated and in chronological order, starting in January 1936 and ending in June 1944 with the D-Day invasion in France.
I do think the book shows how it came to be that Ernest and Martha fell in love, what drew them together and what pushed them apart.The writing at the beginning gave me problems.
This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review.Legendary twentieth century journalist Martha Gellhorn did not wish to be remembered as “Mrs. Ernest Hemingway.” “Why should I be merely a footnote in his life?” she asked.What might she think then of Paula McLain’s Love and Ruin, a novel that casts the third Mrs. Hemingway as a starry-eyed, adulterous bed- and continent-hopping writer who one day quite literally walks into a bar and falls hard for the greatest living celebrity novelist of her time?During her 40-year career as an author and war correspondent, Gellhorn distinguished herself in many ways, among them as the only woman journalist to land at Normandy with the 1944 D-Day invasion and as one of the first to report from Dachau concentration camp after its liberation in 1945.
4+ stars
I just want to say before I review LOVE AND RUIN by Paula McLain that I read CIRCLING THE SUN by the author a couple of years ago and it's one of those books that I fell in love with and I still remember how great the reading experience was. I have yet to read THE PARIS WIFE (it stands and looks accusingly at me on a shelf at home), but I hope to get to it one day.READ THE REST OF THE REVIEW OVER AT FRESH FICTION!
Book Reviewed by Stacey on www.whisperingstories.comIf I’m perfectly honest I had never heard of Martha Gellhorn until I started reading this book.
So you might be wondering what made me read a book about the life of a woman I’d never heard of before and her love affair with a man I knew little about?
Harsh words for any young woman to have to deal with, but especially hard when said just before her father’s death.Martha met Hemingway on a holiday to Florida with her mother and brother after the death of her father.
The book follows Martha’s life and the love affair that the two eventually began.
Martha Gellhorn was an accomplished war correspondent and writer, as well as the third wife of Ernest Hemingway.
"Love and Ruin" is a novel covering the years when Gellhorn and Hemingway were together.Gellhorn and Hemingway met at a Key West bar, and became good friends.
The novel has good descriptions of the life of a journalist, and a wonderful sense of the places they visited.Gellhorn and Hemingway lived together in Cuba, and married after he obtained a divorce.
There was conflict between them because Hemingway wanted a wife at home, but Gellhorn loved the excitement and challenge of her career.
I am weary of reading about characters that I don't care about and this book has no one I really enjoyed with the exception of Martha Gellhorn's mother.
But I think Martha had more on her agenda than Hemingway's affections.
First the war in Spain happened and Hemingway goes off to cover it.
No. Lots of people of people work hard and don't get special rewards for it.
It makes me wonder how she actually covered wars although having someone house and feed you helps out a lot on that front.
In this case, it is the story of the relationship of Ernest Hemingway and Martha Gellhorn, who would become his third wife.
You see two people who are like-minded in many ways (something Hemingway tended to be attracted to in all his wives), being pulled together in a time of world-crisis, WWII, and their relationship being brought to ruins just as the war was coming to its conclusion, a very interesting metaphor for their relationship.I could see how ahead-of-her-time Gellhorn was in her obvious struggle to juggle her desire for career with her desire to be a wife and possible mother.
I loved The Paris Wife and Circling the Sun and looked forward to Ms McLain’s latest book which jumps a wife, from Hemingway’s first, to his third, Martha Gellhorn.
I also enjoyed McLain’s description of Gellhorn writing ‘The End’ when she’d finished one of her novels and showing it as a great moment.
To write these words is an incredible moment for a writer, especially for their first book, as is later holding the work in book-form for the first time.
These were just some small things I enjoyed which Ms. McLain made real.Paula McLain brought the section covering Cuba to life—the sea, the air and the landscape.
This story has such an interesting premise, one of the first female war journalists on the front lines of WWII in several countries such as Spain, China, and Finland.
Additionally, the women's rights issue of the struggle between career and marriage to a successful professional writer.
However, the writing is lukewarm, there is no real feeling in the story.
Because of all the sacrifices she makes, I think she loves him but I don't get a sense either way.
Hopefully someone else will find a way to enjoy this fascinating look at Ernest Hemingway and his third wife.
But this story of the third wife of Ernest Hemingway is so different.This is a story of Martha Gellhorn, a remarkable woman who “became one of the twentieth century’s most significant and celebrated war correspondents, reporting on virtually every major conflict for sixty years – from the Spanish Civil War to the Bay of Pigs, from Vietnam to El Salvador to Panama, where she covered the invasion at the age of eighty-one.”As the story is told by Marty herself, it makes the story very credible.
This is the first book, which makes me see Ernest Hemingway in a different light as a likeable person.
I have seen other reviews stating that Love and Ruin don’t compare to Paris Wife or Circling the Sun, so I am more than anxious to set my eyes upon those books.I waffled a bit with my rating because while I really enjoyed this book, I also found myself skimming over many parts.
I really loved Marty, she was a woman before her time.
I know, its historical fiction, but like Marty, I wanted to human connection.
I found myself skimming through the war passages, which is why I ultimately decided on 3.5 stars.
I would recommend this book to lovers of historical fiction.
