https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30224.Mistral_s_Kiss
I’m not entirely sure why I can’t stop reading Laurell K.
Hamilton’s books, but they’re like cake frosting… I always want more, but it’s so very, very bad for me.
For example, I’m completely underwhelmed by this book, yet I just added the two she will be releasing this year to my wish list.The best thing I can say about this book is that there’s some resolution at the end (which is more than I could say about the two prior).
Really, this series is just thinly veiled erotica, yet I CAN’T STOP READING IT.
I had noticed with the Anita Blake series that the time frames for each book were becoming shorter each time, and such now seems to be the case with this series, as well.
Although the first 70+ pages of MISTRAL'S KISS are a sex scene, with yet again multiple partners, it does actually make sense to the story.
Logically speaking, this should imply that the next book in the series will expound on that event, but if you've been following either of the author's series lately, you'd know by now that Ms. Hamilton doesn't always seem to write logically.
Overall, I did enjoy the story, much more so than the last Anita Blake novel.
I really love the whole story line of Princess Meradith NicEssus and her struggles to become queen of the Unseelie court but I'm getting really tired of chapter after chapter of sex scenes.
It really inhibits plot development and Ms. Hamilton spends a lot of pages catching the reader who might not have read the previous books in the series up.
Maybe if the books weren't so short and had less sex, we might actually get somewhere in the story.
Granted, there's nothing wrong with an occasional love scene but it gets rather ridiculous!
She's boinking 15 guys in this one!
The negative reviews say that there is too much sex, not enough plot, the book took place in only a day, not enough action....
It is a fantasy series....magic, sex and power....Now onto my review of Mistral's Kiss...I really liked this one a lot.
Mistral, I feel so sorry for him, and I hope that he gets a chance at real happiness but I have a feeling Andais will never allow it.Anxious to read the next one and see what happens with Merry and her very dis functional family.It takes a lot of talent to write a series like this one.
This one was my favorite so far, I will explain why soon.
This one is my favorite book because of Doyal's confession.
I love Doyal and Frost.
More and more with every book.
I love them so much that I can not think straight to be honest.
I love that Merry feels for them too.
I do not think I can handle it if Merry becomes pregnant with someone else's baby.
I can not wait to find out what happens next from this book.
So many things and so many feelings and oh my F'in goddess Sholto!!
3.5 Well, this was a short one.I don't understand why didn't the author make one book from the last three.
Although you shouldn't judge a book my its author.The book was good, I really enjoyed it, but I still can't seem to be able to rate it with more than 3.5 stars.
There are stuff that I still don't like and loose ends that are just not good.
I like the book, I absolutely love the plot, the storyline, the world it creates.
Anyway, all in all, it's a good book, a pretty nice series, it's worth giving it a try (if you're not too squeamish).
These books are entertaining, plain and simple.
You have a barage of colourful men with fascinating eyes, rather not so bad sex scenes and Merry who is quite cool.
But there are some flaws.
These books keep getting smaller and smaller!
There's absolutely no reason why Mistral's Kiss and Lick of Frost couldn't have been combined into one book.
It's deeply annoying the way the story is being dragged out.
Repetative phrases.
How many times does this writer say "masculine" and "masculine laugh." We get it!
They are men!
But, these books are exciting and entertaining with the faery lure and dark sort of magic.
LKH has perhaps introduced too many people to the series in the last book, reducing the emotional involvement that the reader has with the characters.
Overall, if you miss this one then don't feel too bad, you haven't missed much arc plot, the previous book (and hopefully the next) is more important to the story development.
It does seem to have set the scene for a complete change of story next book though.
If you like LKH then don't be put off, it's fairly tyical of her writing style and easy to read.
Merry's conquests among her Aunt's guards begins to bring more and more of the forgotten magic to life within the sithen but she is still without child.
I liked this book, but I always get caught in the fact that Merry's time with Mistral is so short.
While her Aunt allows Merry to take him to her bed she makes it clear that Mistral is her guard and will not be allowed to join Merry's men.
Which makes me a little sad, but maybe (??) they pick it up again in later books?
Yeah, this book isn't what I thought it would be from reading the jacket; basically a parallel worlds/fantasy with clashing/dueling races, it begins with what is basically a six-chapter sex scene.
I know it says that she "spends most of her time bedding her immortal sidhe royal guardsmen", but I wasn't expecting it to be so detailed or extensive, or the bulk of the plot!
What is there is very little that is convincing in the plot or characters; it is evidently part of a series, but there is insufficient lead-in to explain current events, and I was left very confused.
However if the plot's not holding my interest then those sex scenes better be off the chart hot, because if I'm not enjoying something in the novel it feels like a waste of time.
There are other authors I read that I know it's unlikely I'll get a decent plot but the sex is amazing.
There's little or no plot and the sex scenes aren't hot, good, or entertaining and that's happening more and more with LKH.One thing that really bothered me was during Abe's turn with Merry, Mistral was told that Merry could and did like some pain with her pleasure.
(I'm surprised by the lack of faerie contract lawyers, actually, as there is clearly a need for them.) To cap it all, Merry's magic is redecorating her entire underground palace without prior consultation.
Things only really started happening three quarters of the way through, after (spoiler) Merry apparently shagged all the sanity out of Sholto, with terrible consequences.Although the last quarter was thus pretty good, I enjoyed this installment less than the previous ones due to dislike of Mistral, sympathy for the villainness, and the absence of levity.
But I have to keep saying that there is sooo much going on in these books and soooo many interesting things....I just can't get enough!
She has the Goddess working through her to bring it back to life ~ through things she does and yes, through having sex with different guards and bringing their powers back.
Once their powers are back, usually they intertwine with Meredith's and cause something amazing or crazy to happen.
There's just no way to predict what is going to happen.
The Good: Lots of sexy times, a little more hardcore than we've seen before in the series.
Variety is good in a series with this much mating going on.
Significant increases in power move the story along and give the reader some interesting possibilities for the future.
Normally, not a huge deal - but here it's extremely noticeable in the lack of single book mystery.
The entire book pushes forward the series but lacks anything that would make it stand out in the series as important on its own.
If it wasn't for the description on the back of the book I would have no idea that Meredith was trying to get pregnant, and was willing to have sex with pretty much anyone to achieve it.
The whole story seemed to concern having sex in one place, then going to another place and having sex with some other guy, then having sex somewhere else with yet another guy.
It also lacked the 'happy ever after' which is standard for pretty much all romance novels.
Overall, a very underwhelming 'story'.
Totally, entirely, and utterly lame book. I don't think more than a single page was concerned with anything other than meaningless sex. I read it in literally 15 minutes. I'm getting tired of Laurell K Hamilton and I think (other than rereading her older books that aren't trashy wannabe erotica) I'm done. Total yawner.
And yet when Sholto has the opportunity to bring life back to his people, he questions what the Consort wants.The CharactersPrincess Meredith “Merry Gentry” NicEssus, descendant of five fertility deities, Princess of Flesh and Blood, is looking more likely to be heir to the throne of the Unseelie Court.
Although this one was shorter than the others I still enjoyed it, well most of it.
The first half was boring for me.
I’m pretty sure the first 30% was just one entire sex scene with some other action in between.
I am all for sex, in all shapes and forms and read some trashy smut, hell I worked in an adult boutique for 6 years...
but damn 30% really???
I was so bored...
and sex should not be boring.
Now the last 50% of the book was all action, fast paced and bloody, it was brilliant, I loved it.
Short. Very short. With the title being about Mistral I expected him to have a more important part or to find out he might be king to her queen. Or if she was pregnant. But this book didn't have much going on in terms of plot. I can't really say exactly what this book was really supposed to be about except sex. This one is pretty much smut.
This was a bit slow to start..I was getting worried that this series was fading to be honest but this one brought it back for me. From the mid point on I was hooked again like I was with the first couple novels. Looking forward to what comes next!!
Not going to get a big review from me....still holding out hope but still losing it fast.
😍😍😍😍😍😍😍 read it in a day
Actually, come to think of it, all kinds of things happened in a mere span of 2 days, spread across 3 books (from book #3 to this one, #5).
Quite frankly, I was quite disappointed with this instalment, because not only did the plot made no further progress, things didn’t really move anywhere in the space of about 300 pages.For the first 1/3 of the book, we just saw Merry engaging in a lot of sex related acts which really added no value to the storyline or the plot other than for pure sexual gratification.
Hamilton"Mistral's Kiss" is a slim volume in the Meredith Gentry series, and feels like a novella instead of a novel.
More a collection of scenes than a flowing story, the book finally gets Merry and her men out of the sithen, where they have spent the last two books.
There just isn't a lot of plot; instead it's as if the author got tired of mucking around inside of faerie, so she put some scenes together, had some more magic happen, and gets set up for the next book in the series.
I'm just left feeling disappointed after finishing "Mistral's Kiss." 1/5.
Like one of LKH's other books (Danse Macabre), I tried several times to read this book all of the way through.
This book picks up at the end of the previous book (the incredibly slow moving Stroke of Midnight), with Merry & her men trying to get out of the sithern.
It pretty much takes almost forever for any real events to happen, and when a halfway interesting plot point (Sholto & the Wild Hunt) shows up the reader pretty much doesn't care.
Most readers will benefit more by just skipping this book entirely (you won't miss much) & moving onto the next book, which sums up the entire plotline of this book in a few paragraphs.
Makes you wonder where he pulled that sucker from, doesn't it?) But there's more plot in this book and it (for once) doesn't feel like an afterthought to the sex.
And while I do realize that no one is going to confuse any book in this series with any classic piece of literature, I do like even my fluff reading to have a plot on occasion.
And I do like some of the character development with Doyle, Frost and Rhys.
Probably not a book I'd advise folks to pay full price for - but if you can find a copy at a library or used book store, then maybe.
I am also starting to wonder how Merry remembers her harem's named cause...I can't.
I'm intrigued where this series is going because I read the back of the newest book and some things bode poorly for the soon to be situations.
Oh well...we shall see.What I didn't like...I think Merry was naked for this entire book.
Oh, no, she had a coat on at the end, but otherwise...naked...Just doesn't seem feasible but then again *shrug* it's Merry and after reading 5 books in a row I'm starting to get used to her.
As a five-star effort, this is a bit weak.
(Actually, the violence isn't more extreme and might even be slightly less, but not enough so to make it enjoyable for anybody with a weak stomach.) But if you don't mind a fantasy story set in a very dark, very violent and harsh world, and if you enjoy a bit of erotica so unapologetic as to not just border on, but occasionally cross the line into pornography, (I do) then this series and this book should be right up your alley, at least if you don't object to strong female lead characters.
If you haven't read this series and come across these books out of order.
You probably could still read them although the first three books are kinda story builders.
However The amount of recapping is ridiculous for people who have read the series up till now.
So if you haven't read any merry books the recapping might work in your favor.
If you liked fairy tales when you were younger this is a very adult and erotic fairytale of merry gentry the first princess born on american soil(so we are repeatedly told).
Dont get me wrong but this series is really good but it is a little frustrating.
I got this book at the library yesterday.
I guess I didn't realize that it was the 5th book in a series so...
i didn't really know what was going on.
There seems to be a trend in Laurell K Hamilton's books where a)the heroine's physical description is similar to the author's b) the heroine has a HAREM of dudes that she nails on a regular basis c)the heroine is just on the safe side of kinky/rough in the sack.
Now none of this really poses a problem for me as a reader of trashy supernatural romance crap, but it's kind of...
all the same thing, just with different supernatural creatures.hmm...
maybe my taste in reading material is going sour.
