https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19564.The_Lost_Lunar_Baedeker
4.5/5 […]The smell of small cookingFrom luckier housesIs cruel to the maimed catHidingAmong the carpenter’s shavingsFrom three boys—One holding a bar—Who neverthelessBorn of human parentsCry when locked in the dark[…] -Italian Pictures: The Costa San Giorgio  I want someone with the tendency to obsess over Modernism and Futuruism and other Patriarchal Eurocentric Difficult Things (I know you're out there) to pore over this with a fine-tooth comb. I know I missed the most of it, what with not bei
History talks about First Wave Feminism and its complacency with legality, a nice and neatness that would work if Loy hadn't been rocking around Second Wave (right to fuck) and Third Wave (right to not be white/rich/straight/cis) with her poems on childbirth and
As you can see, it didn't stop her from publishing every so often, drawing enough attention and the rare combo of literary editor and rabid fan to bring her work into the new millenium.
I question the "new", really, for her life will still attract the "whore" and "slut" and every other word the gynephobic use when especially afraid of women embracing their sex drive.
Funk T.S. Eliot, this chick can WRITE. Poetry and I have issues sometimes. I was fed up with all those British dudes. I was like, can I get a woman up in here? And there she was, all fantastic and kickass.
"Difficult" poetry, I think, is comparable to the latter type.Over and over again, while reading Loy's poetry, I found myself faced with a nontrivial decision: ought I to gnaw on each line for as long as necessary to understand it fully before progressing to the subsequent line, or ought I to skim entire stanzas or pages (biting off big chunks of Loy's caramel, as it were) in an attempt to process them as larger units before backtracking and rereading?
I decline to make a normative judgment on this matter.)Loy's poetry is not really comparable to any other American's.
Despite being associated with many highly-regarded artists and literary figures (including Ezra Pound, Marcel Duchamp, and countless others), not to mention seemingly every avant-garde movement of the twentieth century (including Futurism, Dada, and Surrealism), Mina Loy has scarcely received the attention she deserves.
Mina Loy's association with various avant-garde groups is well documented, including Futurism.
visceral, provocative — learned a lot of new words with this one
On a second go through of these poems--Joyfully cutting, strange, resistant, hermaphrodititic!
A binarian's nightmare.
What else from a feminist who hung out with Marinetti?This Selected was put together to put Mina Loy back into the modernist canon and "Songs to Joannes" & almost every poem in "Corpses & Geniuses" prove she belongs there.I meanIn one impalpableOmniprevalent DimensionWe are turned inside outYour cities lie digesting in our stomachsStreet lights footle in our ocular darknessin 1919!
The notes compiled by the ed Conover are vital for anyone interested in the landscape of Modernist poetry--for what Modernism is & what, in Loy, the Modernist center was afraid to embrace/what was excised from later definitions of.
What can I say? I love this book with its weird mysticism and loopy neologisms. I found it very generative in terms of my own writing.
Nonetheless, this volume is a bookshelf treasure trove, filled with such gems as,"There is no Life or Death,Only activityAnd in the absoluteIs no declivity.There is no Love or LustOnly propensityWho would possessIs a nonentity.There is no First or LastOnly equalityAnd who would ruleJoins the majority.There is no Space or TimeOnly intensity,And tame thingsHave no immensity."and"We might have coupledIn the bed-ridden monopoly of a momentOr broken flesh with one anotherAt the profane communion tableWhere wine is spill'd on promiscuous lipsWe might have given birth to a butterflyWith the daily news Printed in blood on its wings"and"We are the sacerdotal clownswho feed upon the wind and starsand pulverous pastures of povertyOur wills are formed by curious disciplinesbeyond your lawsYou may give birth to usor marry usthe chances of your fleshare not our destiny--"
I love her prose.
Some of the images seemed easy, their value based in shocking and disrupting.
In her Aphorisms she talks about the need to disrupt prudishness.
I get that she seeks to do this through disruption and disgust ("To your blushing we shout the obscenities, we scream the blasphemies, that you, being weak, whisper alone in the dark.
They are empty except of your shame" (152).), but when I read the poems I get the overwhelming sense of a speaker who despises love.
Pound, Eliot, HD, Williams - they are all alive to the overwhelming experience of their souls.
One of my early influences. She made lampshades, she wrote poems. She slept with all the Futurists.
i think i'm in love.
Indispensable.
I want to be knocked dead by these poems, but the truth is, in my struggling-to-be-humble-about-Loy opinion, they read like jottings in a notebook the writer carries around to take down memories and impressions as they strike, unassembled, unordered, unedited.
What can we make, for example, of these notes on the subject of pain in childbirth?And the ego succeeds in unifying the positive and negative poles of sensationUniting the opposing and resisting forcesIn lascivious revelation [sic]Almost devoid of concrete images that will connect us, many of these poems are held together by weak rhymes (activity ...declivity ...propensity ...nonentity...equality ...majority ...intensity ...immensity), or conversely, dys-integrated by strings of -tion words.
A poet uncomparable to any other. She can create surrealistic images with her poetry. The vocabulary is beautiful and unexpected. Every line is further away from cliche than the other. Themes like womanhood, universe and modernity come together with the most surprising collection of phrases. It is a very unique work and, because it is so different, not everybody will like. But if you are searching for something original, you should definably try it!
Very modernist. Very extra. Not for me. I'd like to consistently have more to appreciate than just the extraordinary skill that went into each poem. 2.5That said, I'm glad to have read it; Loy's poetry is intriguing, and often beautiful in its (sometimes opaque) complexity.
I must preface this by saying that I am a poetry fan and I hardly ever turn away anything in its regard.
In the beginning, Mina Loy had me undecided on whether or not I liked her poetry.
It took me a few "re-reads" to develop a true, deep understanding for what she was attempting to convey.
I do not like to read the same old poetry about love, life, and death.
Though she may write on these topics, she inserts a modern spin on it to add a bit of spunk or originality to her writing.I recommend this to all poetry lovers and it will definitely be a collection that you will refer back to several times!
Mina Loy was an early feminist and an avant-garde poet and writer.
This book features Loy's amazing poetry as well as her manifestos on futurism and feminism.
It is basically just an edifying book for any woman working in the avant-garde who has been led to believe that the avant-garde had been a largely male domain until the 1960s.
As more and more collections of poetry and biographies emerge on Loy, Baronness Elsa, and a host of other women, our contributions to the avant-garde and to poetry and art in general are being acknowledged and our stories told.
One of my all time favorite poets, Mina Loy is incredibly cerebral & sensuous at the same time. Note the series, Love Songs to Johannes, probably the sexiest serial poem ever written. A hammer of a vocabulary delivered in perfect lines, breaks with the breath, funny as hell and positively delicious in every way. Only drawback is that this book excludes the long poem, Anglo-Mongrels & the Rose, which was in the earlier Jargon Press edition. On the other hand, this edition is smaller, and thus easier to carry around. I have both. Essential reading.
"We might have coupledIn the bed-ridden monopoly of a momentOr broken flesh with one anotherAt the profane communion tableWhere wine is spill'd on promiscuous lipsWe might have given birth to a butterflyWith the daily newsPrinted in blood on its wings"not everything in here is amazing,but everything amazing in hereis really amazing.sure, she's pretentious & wordy.maybe it's the part of me that lovesPatti Smith & J D Salinger.no... something else.the part of me that loves shelley?oh, dear... how'd i let that slip out?
I learned about Mina Loy when I read The Anthologist by Nicholson Baker; she was a complete unknown to me before that. And I love her, how her words are so intentional and meaningful. My favorite work of hers will always be Songs to Joannes.
some was rlly great and i loved, other stuff was a bit ????
Mina Loy to her (male) critics: "Our wills are formed/ by curious disciplines/ beyond your laws".
That's right folks, she's wearing thermometers for earrings. And the later poetry ain't bad. The early stuff though is juvenalia.

There are flashes of obscure brilliance in Loy’s poetry, but it is profoundly alienating stuff. Since this book is prepared by an editor to reintroduce a forgotten author into the Modernist canon, it contains some of Loy’s best work, as well as later poems that turn on subjects gone weary, and a few poems heavily reliant upon understanding the big names in Italian Futurism. Worth it for poems like ‘Parturition’, ‘Songs for Joannes’ and the manifestos. She’s a difficult poet not to admire, but also a hard one to love.
Creates a space for art for females about the female experience, including abortion, childbirth, prostitution, relationships, living under the pressure to conform to the madonna-whore paradigm. Futurist, Feminist, and Modernist manifestos.
There are any number of reasons to admire Loy--she was a groundbreaking artist and a thoroughly original voice. That said, this book is a hit or miss collection of Modernist poems and some prose manifestos.
Probably my new favorite Modernist poet.
As good as any poet I've read and more visionary than most.
I first encountered Loy's poetry in Rothenberg and Joris's Poems for the Millenium, Vol. 1, and was immediately intrigued by her and wanted to read more.
Her review is very much worth reading since it does a wonderful job of expressing the difficulty of reading Loy. It is here https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...I love this book.
Another way that Loy pulls me in is her playfulness with sound.
And to stop and think about associations with the moon.
This is a book I'll keep and plague teenage nursing home volunteers by asking them to read to me from it and stop after a stanza or two and start prying about what she must mean.
