https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227111.The_Night_Thoreau_Spent_in_Jail
There are days when I am not fit to be a teacher, and today is one of them.
My English 11 class finished reading this play this morning.
One female pronounced it "gay" and said it "sucked." A male student declared it "pointless." Again, there are some days I just am not fit to be a teacher.
There were perhaps a handful out of the class of 20 who will take something away from this play, which I found to be an excellent portrayal of HDT's views and an excellent look at what nonconformity means, looks like and often results in.
3.5While reading it as opposed to watching it may have lessened some of the play's magic, I still loved the portrayal of Thoreau and agreed with many aspects of his philosophy. A great introduction to Transcendentalism.Also, I will remember this line forever: "I hereby excommunicate you from the Milky Way!" Ha ha.
wow.WHAT A PLAY."We love without knowing it. A man - or a woman - can't love on schedule. I don't wake up in the morning and say: 'I shall start loving at nine-twenty, and continue until ten-fifteen.' Yes, it is accidental. And it's everywhere - it's the wind, the tide, the waves, the sunshine.""I hereby EXCOMMUNICATE YOU FROM THE MILKY WAY!"
Kinda boring, read for a class!
noice. smort.
It made me worried I was in for something I didn't want - and considering I'm so late to actually reading this, as it wasn't part of our assigned reading back when I originally studied Transcendentalism, I wasn't sure how disconnected I'd feel from that overall point.
Regardless of if Thoreau was the man the playwrights fantasized about, the Thoreau in this play - along with his relationship to his brother, the lamenting chorus of his mother, and his apolitical view of what was his modern world - was charming and humorous.
The play takes from Thoreau's work and combines many years in the passing of a single night as he converses with his cell mate and has flashbacks about other times in his life.
The quote that is the center of the work is, "If the law is of such a nature that it requires you to be an agent of injustice to another, then I say, break the law." The play was originally published in 1971 during a time of unrest in the United States due to the Viet Nam war, minority rights movements and the women's rights movement.
Snagged from the English dept book room because it's on the "approved" list for grade 11. This is an easy read and could supply the half-conscious reader with enough support for writing on Thoreau and his ilk. I especially enjoyed the humor and the way the authors drew clear parallels between two unpopular wars (Mexico and Vietnam). I also found the conflict with Emerson interesting -- Emerson a thinker too timid to rock the boat, Thoreau a man determined to go his own way and be himself. This is a good addition to a unit on the American Transcendentalists.
"If the law is of such nature that it requires you to be a agent of injustice to another, then i say, break the law".Thoreau refused to pay taxes because he did not believe in the government’s involvement in the Mexican war. For this, he was thrown in jail. This play depicts a man’s quest to find justice in America and take a stance for something he believed in.
Lee (no, not the Civil War one) have collaborated on several famous plays (Inherit the Wind, Auntie Mame).
It depicts Henry David Thoreau spending a night in jail for not paying taxes, with many reflections on the state of the world and himself and others (including Ralph Waldo Emerson).
One aspect that I found intriguing is that the reason Thoreau was refusing to pay his taxes was because he disagreed with President James K.
The argument set forth near the end of the play is that of Abraham Lincoln, who as a young U.S. Congressman aggressively challenged the constitutionality of the war.
First of all, I don't think I like reading plays lol. the format is just so different lol.second, this was another one of my "read from high school and re-read" book.Henry chose to be alone as a free man with his thoughts and philosophy. If I understood this play correctly, he advocates for thinking for yourselves with your own decisions, even if it goes against the flow of the general public. And if the government's action is against your philosophy, you should stand on your believes and protest it (im guessing, assuming reasonably.)I'm sorry if this review is shoddy
4.5I thoroughly enjoyed this play. It really made you think and I couldn't help but love Thoreau who was so ahead of his time and who thought so much he couldn't think in a straight line. His thoughts went from point A to D to Y to H to F to Z and finally to B where it was headed. He was extremely progressive and utterly himself. So himself it made everyone else appear the same. I loved it.
A short play and fun thought experiment for Thoreau fans. Set during a night spent in jail for unpaid taxes, full of flashbacks, philosophical musings, and ruminations on civil disobedience and our obligation as free-thinking citizens. A reminder to follow the beat of your own drummer. Little has changed since the 1840s.
I really enjoyed the play and last bed how the author portrayed Thoreau and his philosophies. However, the setting was sometimes confusing.
Some funny and ironic parts, and very clever too, but ultimately a bit dry for my taste. Still, it's a good companion to studying Thoreau and Emerson.
Nice take on Thoreau's Transcendental philosophy, with obvious excerpts from his essay re: civil disobedience. Easy to understand in this format for younger students.
Witty, deep, and very thought provoking. It has some terrific one-liners in there. I would to see it live!
Enjoyed this- I've always been a fan of transcendentalism so that probably bumped up the review a star.
Rating: 4.75
It was okay, I read it for school and it was a bit confusing for my taste. Not bad though!
It was surprisingly interesting and I enjoyed it.
I enjoyed. Now, I'd like to see it performed on the stage. Very well written.
This may be one of my all-time favorites.
In my copy, almost every page has lines highlighted and stuff written in the margins.
Everything was so beautifully written in this play and I wanted to remember every bit of it.
It also discusses one of my favorite topics, which is civil disobedience.
I would recommend this one to everybody, even if you aren't used to reading plays because it is super readable and flows so nicely.
This play was written nearly 40 years ago about something that took place over a 100 years before that, but it remains so applicable to today.
A good book with big themes of transcendentalism, but a bit hard to follow.
I remember shuddering as I opened to the first pages and the dawning realization hit that this was a play.
My glowing hatred for plays outshines the sun at times.
Their back and forth dialogue monotony is draining, the staggered format bores me, and the common Speaker 1: Speaker 2: set up abused by fanfiction writers has made me especially begrudging to read plays.
The format was still in classic play styling but the dialogue ques were detailed and beautiful.
This unique style encapsulated me and finishing this play was a breeze.
This play was not a bad play. Despite my rating, I rather enjoyed it. That being said, fuck DAVID Henry Thoreau. He is so fucking annoying. He tries so damn hard to be abstract and obscure and nonconformist that regardless of whether or not any of his words had substance, I just don't give a damn. I don't know how accurately this play portrays Thoreau, but if he was anything like this, he seems to be a pretentious, misanthropic, smug asshole.
The play artfully weaves in direct quotations from both "Civil Disobedience" and "Walden," and the context of the quotes is original and apt - an impressive accomplishment.
My one critique is that although Thoreau's interactions with his black cellmate, Bailey, are in perfect keeping with his character, Bailey is cast is the traditional "Jim to Huck" role, and that was disappointing.
Most impressive, perhaps, is the play's critique of the Vietnam War - it never veers from Thoreau's story but manages to create a subtle but powerful allegory without becoming didactic.
A very thoughtful, cleverly written play.
I found the numerous elements of philosophy very well done.Besides being philosophical, this book also combines conflictual theories and references to Politics, Psychology, Transcendentalism, and Religion.
The play jumps back and forth between present times, memories, and what seem to sometimes be imaginary thoughts, which can be confusing at first.
I think it would be much better to the see the script being acted out on an actual stage, but like most plays, I unfortunately haven't had the opportunity.An excellent play with even better philosophical ideas and views.
I would have probably enjoyed this more if I'd read in in high school instead of as an adult.
It's a good introduction to Thoreau, Emerson, civil disobedience, and Transcendentalism, but it's a little disjointed at times.
And, speaking of quotes, sometimes the play reads like Lawrence and Lee picked their favorites, and wrote the play around them.
Every line from Thoreau and Emerson sounds like something from Bartlett's Quotations.
These faults aside, this is still a decent play, and was probably very timely when it was written in 1970, as its allusions to Vietnam and the civil rights movement are pretty obvious.
An amazing play-I learned far more about Thoreau and his ideas from this play even than reading Walden.
I do need to reread his works; part of the reason I liked the play so much more might have had to do with reading both in high school.
Maybe a cop-out, but really, this play is sensational.
My copy of this play is filled with highlighter, to the point where it borders on the entire play being highlighted.
But just goes to show that the ideas just kept on coming.
