https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7785.I_Can_Read_With_My_Eyes_Shut_
No importa cuándo, no importa cómo, lo importante es leer. Un mensaje muy profundo en un relato muy corto.
"The more that you read, the more things you will know.The more that you learn, the more places you'll go."
Haha, one of my sons claimed he COULD read with his eyes shut (because he read the same book every day for a month) so I got this book and he had to read with his eyes OPEN. Oh, it's so fun being a parent.Anyway, this is a good book for beginning readers because, like almost all Seuss books, he focuses on the most common words we use. The pictures are fun and the story is silly so little ones like to listen to it as well.
5 HERMOSAS Y PERFECTAS STARS  "The more that you read, the more things you will know.The more that you learn, the more places you'll go."   A mi nena de 3 años le encanta este libroY yo lo ame, es mi favorito de Dr. Seuss, el mensaje es simple, divertido y muy muy importante, ya que es referente a todo lo positivo de la lectura.
Lovely book for kids to know about reading and how important it is.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SXquS...
The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.
"The more that you read, the more places you'll know.
The more that you know, the more places you'll go."In honor of Dr. Seuss' birthday, I decided to pick a book by him.
Regardless of the passage of time, his books are classic and timeless.
Reading is such a big part of my life and Dr. Seuss' words describe the joy of reading in a most accurate way.
While short, the book has whimsy and fun, its colorful and puts a big smile on my face.
I do not think there will ever be a time when I will tire of reading his work.
Another goodie by Dr. Seuss. I have not yet mastered that skill-- I would like to see it done though! : )
Loved this book! It is a fun and creative way to get students excited about learning to read. It gives students ideas about many different reading genres. It teaches students that you can be a part of many adventures through reading.
As children read this, they begin to gain more confidence with their reading because they can read, and they are repeatedly saying, "I can read!" One my assume that this book is simply about reading with your eyes closed, but if you look deeper, Dr. Seuss is trying to convey that reading can be fun and you should keep an open mind and let your imagination soar.
If you close your eyes or your mind while you read, you will be limited to what the words are saying rather than what the words mean.
This was one of the Dr. Seuss books I missed during my own childhood. Now that I've got kids, I got it from the library to read out loud. It is basically a nonsense book which celebrates reading.
Esta obra es un elogio a la lectura, por un lado,una invitación, por el otro,que deja al grande y al chiquito enfrascadosintentando resolver tanto alboroto.Se puede leer sobre todo,de esto nadie duda,lo vital es recordar un pocoen esta vida testaruda,que no es caprichoso el asombro―sino la virtud principal―como decía el filósofo.Ojos cerradosojos abiertos,pequeños pasos, pequeños tropezones,«podrás aprender del hieloy también de los ratones. De ratones en el hieloo hielo sobre ratones.»
Este libro es increíble para leerle a niños de segundo o tercer grado de primaria, siempre y cuando no sólo se les muestren las imágenes sino también que se interactue dentro del margen que el mismo permite.Entre más se "actue" con el libro, más lo disfrutan los pequeños.
"The more that you read, the more things you will know.The more that you learn, the more places you'll go"   "You have to be a speedy reader 'cause there's so, so much to read"  <3Dr. Seuss, the rhyme Master! ^_^
"You have to be a speedy reader because there's so, so much to read!"
The style of this book is very unique, on some pages the words are written in a whimsical way around the illustrations.
This makes the book more appealing for young kids.
The cat in the hat explains to his friend that if he reads with his eyes shut he will miss out on so many great details within a book or whatever he may be reading.
The illustrations in this book are very unique and humorous.
This is what makes the book also so appealing.
Young children enjoy the Dr. Seuss books because of the humorous illustrations.
I had never even heard of this book before my 3 year old son was given it as a gift. This is a very entertaining story by Dr. Seuss. I look forward to rereading it many times with my son and daughter.
Dr. Seuss never let me down!! Me and my daughter loves his books!! Hope to collect them all some day!!
good starter book
This book is a fun trip down memory lane, as a very relatable story of a kid learning more about books and their capabilities.Just like any other Dr. Seuss book, I found this one to be almost everything I like in a kids book.
I remember telling mom and dad something like "I can read this book with both of my eyes closed" or "I can read like this or that...".
It is a message to kids who say to their mom and dad "I can read with my eyes shut" that they can't.
In the book I Can Read With My Eyes Shut, the author, Dr. Seuss allows the Cat in the Hat to take the adolescent reader through the act and experience of reading.
He displays this by gaining the ability to read faster and about everyday objects, such as trees, knees, and bees.With the use of dynamic bright colors the author brings the excitement of reading directly to life.
The book is a positive reinforcement to encourage every young reader.Through this book Dr. Seuss encourages the younger generations to expand their knowledge and learning.
I read this book because I wanted to read a Dr. Seuss book.
I remembered after reading a few of his clever lines but I still gave a low rating on this book.
Still this was a good book and it is good because it motivates kids to read.
Dr. Seuss uses a lot of adjectives and descriptive words.
You know the illustrations your getting into before you read this book.
All of Dr. Seuss's books are typically illustrated the same way.
Its a good book and a quick read.
I would use this in the class room on Dr. Seuss day.
I Can Read With My Eyes Shut by Dr. SeussAs a reader, I have made the assumption that everyone loves Dr. Seuss and his rhythmical style stories.
It elaborates on how reading can be enjoyable and it doesn't necessarily mean reading chapter books or old "boring" books.
It could be reading anything a reader can find enjoyable or learning something new.
I feel that in this story Dr. Seuss is explaining that reading is learning, and you can never stop learning, nor can you ever stop reading.
I love learning knew things when I read.
I enjoy getting accessible knowledge and learning things I don't already know.
This may be one of my favorite Dr. Seuss books.
It was such a fun read and I loved reading it to my kids.
I’ve always loved that Dr. Seuss books rhyme and they always have a bit of silliness to it that appeals to kids.
The lesson here is that it’s fun to read and you know that hit home for me.
Everything about a Seuss book is excellent.
And, I don’t know about you, but I always love a book that rhymes.Thoughts from BG1: This book was hilarious.
I love that it rhymes and I loved all the silly animals.
It’s written as a moral code.
The moral of the story is that it’s important to read.
The book lists a few goofy ways to make reading seem less boring.
Dr. Seuss’s goal was to make reading vibrant and colorful, I believe he achieved that goal.
The book is extremely colorful and bright.
The pictures are goofy but straight to the point.
The book makes it very easy for a younger audience to get the picture.
Dr. Seuss’s choice of words and rhyme scheme make its own way of pulling children in to read more.
This book is very well rounded!
I enjoy reading books created by Dr. Seuss because they always have a message to convey.
Although some aren't as clear as the others, this book is easy to understand.
It does a great job at stressing the importance of reading and all the benefits of it!
I always enjoy the illustrations in Dr. Seuss books and really enjoyed this books images.
One thing that stood out to me in this book is the creativity.
I believe that it also creates a creative influence on the reader.
Definitely a 5-star book with a great message for readers of all ages!
personal response: I read this book to my little brother and he said it was a great book.
He also said he liked the pictures very much and the rhymes.
The book explains how a fictional cat can read in different colors and places.
After reading with his eyes shut he explains how it hurts to read with his eyes shut and tells kids to not try and do it.
Recommendation: My little brother thinks my mom should read this book.
Wyatt also thinks this would be a good book for little kids.
Mostly for kids who cant read.
Dr. Seuss once again showes us why he is a favorite amongst young readers. His choice of words, and rhyme, has its own way of captivating children. In this fascinating story,The Cat In The Hat, teaches us that the best way to read is with your eyes open. Even though it is possible to read in other ways, by reading with open eyes,you will not miss out on all the amazing things reading has to offer you. So keep your eyes wide, wide open because if you close them, there is no telling what you might miss.
While enjoyable, I find the factual claims of this tome to be dubious at best. Sure, I believe that the feline narrator can read with his eyes shut. I've tried it, and it makes my eyebrows red hot as well. No, my problem is with the claim that reading with my eyes open will teach me about Foo-Foo the Snoo. In all my years, I've never been able to find another book that mentions that guy. And based on the author's illustration, he looks like a weirdo.
Dr. Suess's I can Read With My Eyes Shut is a great book for young children. It helps to teach kids about all the different things there are that you can read about. It is fun for kids to read and listen to because of the friendly vocabulary and the rhyming. I like how the book relates reading to everyday life, such as street signs and places in the world. This a great educstional book to teach children about reading and what you can do with reading.
