https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81668.Reality_Sandwiches
Only partly ashamed to say I stole this from a nameless London bookshop when I was about 17. I still love it.
A naked lunch is natural to us,  we eat reality sandwiches. But allegories are so much lettuce.  Don’t hide the madness. - On Burroughs' Work
I actually like this more than HOWLbrought this with me last weekend for three Pitchfork daysread th
The universe is mad, slightly mad.
Ginsberg awakes on October 4th, 1957 in Amsterdam and writes that he turns "back to sleep in my dark bed on earth." Then he is off to Paris where he writes "Squeal" which may be a miniature "Howl" written in San Francisco in 1955-56.
I'm reading Ginsberg's poetry in the order in which he wrote them, starting with 1947, and these works tell us, intimately, of Ginsberg's life.
This is indeed "auto-fiction" (a term I believe created in reference to Proust's "In Search of Lost time") and it is surprisingly honest.
3,5 stars**Some poems I liked much more than others, but I copied down a lot of words so it must mean I found it pretty great.
Ok so'Howl' and 'Kaddish' (I'm referring to both the individual poems and collections) were far superior to this one; Ginsberg's defintely done better.
However, Reality Sandwiches is ,well, reality sandwiches.
Each poem is a deeply personal work that takes you into the mind and life of Allen Ginsberg.
Considering that this volume was made up of largely uncollected poems that spanded a great deal of time, the quality of the work is what could be called mildly eclectic, and certian pieces are signifagantly better then others.
There are better beatnit books out there, obviously; so I'd recomed one of thoose.
Poetry is difficult but enjoyable. Ginsburg writes so autobiographical lyrics, and I am so familiar with his life story that it adds a dimension of fun to the reading. I am seeing a lot of variety in his poetry, and it's giving me an idea of what can be done.
Reality Sandwiches is a collection of eccentric, poignant, and eclectic poems that is just as wonderful as Ginsberg’s masterpiece “Howl”. The poems featured are of a more personal nature and are often over-toned with melancholy and personal references from the poet’s life. I thought that this was an inspiring, energising, and beautiful collection of beat poetry that I look forward to revisiting in the future.
Read this after watching Kill Your Darlings. Some are beautiful and others are a complete miss for me.
I feel like I'm not drugged or gay enough to fully appreciate this book. Although what does it have to do with anything? My Alba and Blessed Be the Muses are my favourites.
I was digging it until I got to the name dropping poems. Really man? Can your poems not stand on their own without dragging in your (more) famous friends? Read some of his other stuff. (Howl)
It was lost on me.
Had its moments, but overall sorta felt real "ooh look how willfully outlandish I am" and irked me. Maybe I'm just not in the right place for Ginsberg right now. I remember enjoying Howl...

¿Y ahora qué leo estos poemas puedo seguir leyendo a Allen?Me gustó en general.
Ese mirar a los momentos cotidianos y combinarlos con una especie de visión surreal, me parecieron muy acertadas y entendibles, pero luego vienen esas partes en donde la droga gano y no entendí ni mierda (y aclaro que al ser poesía todo es muy subjetivo, así que lo que a mi me parece sin pies ni cabeza a otro le puede parecer una genialidad) y al final unio ese mundo sutilmente desdibujado con pitazos de quien sabe qué y no logro encartarme.
Ahora solo pensaré si leo más de este hombre
I don't know why but I can never get into Allen Ginsberg poems but then again I have a hard time getting into any kind of poem.
Maybe I read them like a book, and just want to rush to the next page.
Maybe I'm just not in the right place in life to really enjoy poetry that is read.
I do wonder how often dollar R956422481 is passed around to this day and if I have held it myself.
I wonder what adventures and purchases this bill has experienced.
So out of this book, the American money one was my favorite.
Quite an interesting collection spanning seven years of Ginsburg's life.
I'll probably have to read this at least four more times to understand it as it deserves.
Decent poems; quick read.
Every word beats at the speed of our contemporary living experience.
Ginsberg is great as usual, but he does engage in more self-serving jaunts in this book than he did in "Howl", and I can't say that I was able to follow them all.
This morning Marti & I read an acceptance speech by Paul Celan in which he says the poem is a message in a bottle, flung out in the hope that one day it will wash up on land (heartland perhaps).
each can be transmitted, can inhabit another across time.I continue to find Allen Ginsberg in these best parts of himself, cock-rocketed to us from the cold middle of the 20th century, to be a paragon of kindness, silly reverence, and universalistic self-authorization...
The beats aren't my bag, but I loved TEARS and a few others.
I liked the poetry in this book.
It is well written and simple, which is what I like about Ginsberg, however I read Howl and other poems first- before reading this- and I have to say I am/was a bit disappointed with these poems.
The raw intensity and fearlessness that was presented and represented in Howl and the other collection of poetry- which was my first introduction to Ginsberg's work was not as present in these poems.
I did like this poetry book though Just not rivetingly.
Ginsberg is not for everyone, certainly not for me. But he has some poems that I simply love and some lines that I have to stop to appreciate. There were some poems in this anthology that I loved and some that I didn't care for, but overall I'm glad I read this.
Some of my friends call me a hipster, because I wear horn-rimmed glasses and because I happen to enjoy offbeat culture. Reading this book made me realize that I am waaaaaay too mainstream to be a hipster.Reading Reality Sandwiches was not an enjoyable experience for me. Most of the poems went over my head, and the ones I actually grasped did not appeal to me - Not even the piece about Burroughs. What do Allen Ginsberg and Spinal Tap have in common ?Two-word reviews (See spoiler). (You're more mainstream than me if you don't get the reference!)(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>

This is the first time I read a beat literature (erm, beat poem).
At first I was thinking like "what the hay is this thing?
Is this really a poetry at all?", yet then as I read further into the book, I could quite grasp what beat poem is (and how it feels like, you know, the beat stuff and all that).
I was never really mad about beat culture in general, never even about the literature, but after this book I think I can quite enjoy it somehow (although it feels somewhat icky, don't ask me why haha).
It feels like a refreshment too.
I tried desperately to like this book but couldn't help but deduce that these are the drug infused, manic, and often incomprehensible ramblings of a man so endowed with a mysterious mixture of privilege and self pity that I can barely read the words. There is a great effort to convey emotion but it seems contrived and idolizing of his friends which seems inauthentic and self promoting. A few poems were noteworthy but the entire piece speaks of disorganization and mild racism.
