https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39032.Mount_Dragon
Then he loaded Burt's notes into the laptop's word processor.""He initiated the upload with a few keystrokes, and an access light on the terminal's faceplate lit up."Isn't that delightful?
This alternates with the tedious detailing of the evil company CEO's creation of a virtual reality universe (he calls it "cypherspace") which his nemesis is trying to penetrate.Almost done here with my keystrokes....loading this into GR' word processor, about to click "save" and watch as the next page loads.
Great story - fun read. I especially love the last part, in the desert, travelling by horse... I don't want to give spoilers, but all I can say is that their experience truly seems like torture.
As entertaining and exciting as all Preston Child books! Great characters, fun plot and always interesting to read. I would recommend it
The security is top-notch and nothing could ever go wrong and release biological doomsday onto an unsuspecting world population.Or could it?I loved the concept of this book even before starting to read it and ended up liking the characters and the story a lot too.
I only wish the characters had been a bit more developed because there were aspects of their personalities that I felt would have been strengthened with more expansion, and that would have made certain plot events even more meaningful.
Still, this book was one of the author's earlier releases and it seems that they have been improving in this area.
http://silenciosquefalam.blogspot.pt/...
Pues justamente sucedió esto en las primeras partes del libro, pero pronto se vuelve demasiado abultado para poder ser excelente.
Cumple con la función de darte paranoia continua y dejarte pensando qué pasaría si ...?El final es demasiadoooooo largo y exhaustivo, y justamente en esta parte es donde se pierde todo lo bueno construido, se quiere salir del planteamiento de sci fi para ser una historia de vaqueros.
Se descuida a los personajes para darle peso a las situaciones, y bueno, seguimos siendo parte del mundo humano.
No es un mal libro, me generó las ganas de acabarlo en pocos días, pero definitivamente no es el mejor.
I was really excited for the premise of this one, since I've loved other books by these authors, and I am such a sucker for pandemic stories.But the main character was such a massive twat!!
Massively disappointing.
It only gets to keep it's second star because it was engaging, and if the MC wasn't such a massive butthole, I would have kept going.

Another good thriller from Preston/Child.
This is a combination sci-fi/thriller/western.
It includes elements of all of these genres including the main story of the development of a way to change the human genome to eliminate the possibility of getting the flu.
Well, this is all good, right?
But along the way a nasty mutant flu virus is manufactured that could wipe out mankind (shades of The Stand by Stephen King).
This virus came about through a corporation, GeneDyne that also developed an artificial blood called PurBlood (shades of True Blood?).
Thrown in with this is a chase across the New Mexican desert and a possible lost treasure.
This one is scary because it could actually happen. We never know what Pandora's Box we might open when we start tinkering with genes and DNA and the like when it comes to viruses, and this book explores one of the possibilities. It also takes a peek at the darker side of pharma companies in the 'profits over research' attitude. Given the technology exists today to make this a reality should scare everyone, and make us all proceed with caution
I like most of the Pendergast novels by Preston and Child... this isn't one.It's a competent effort and readable about the risks of genetic experiments and what we may do to ourselves. I didn't find it particularly memorable...but as I said, not a bad read.The scene that sticks particularly in my mind (view spoiler)[comes at the end of the book (the reason for the spoiler warning) as the two scientists die from the genetically engineered virus. (hide spoiler)]
Meh, a somewhat interesting sci/fi-thriller about genetic engineering gone awry. Somewhat dated - written in 1996, the conceptions of internet capability and virtual reality seem somewhat archaic, now. But still an enjoyable enough book, with some fantastic elements that seem dated and others that seem over-the-top . . .
Charges of inaccurate science and misogamy aside, this was an absolute thriller.
With unrelenting pace, the book propels readers into a top secret genetic engineering lab in White Sands region, as the protagonist (specialist in viral capsules) tries to solve a genetic puzzle and decipher a series of strange happenings that point to internal sabotage.
At risk for extreme viral contamination, scientists believe they're working on genetic modifications to aid humanity, but the company's top command have more nefarious goals.
A mixture of cutting edge science (for the times) and pure animal survival, the story keeps you guessing until the end -- which is an unexpected act of poetic justice.
It was good and I got a kick out of seeing Mime in it, but I missed Pendergast so it just wasn't the same.
Not great, but not bad either. Got a little bored, but stuck it out and finished. I have read it before...years ago, but could not remember any of it so just like reading it for the first time. Won't keep the paperback to read again though. Too many other books just waiting to be discovered.
A friend of mind shared  Mount Dragon with me as the latest from  Douglas Preston and  Lincoln Child.
We agree this is probably not their best work, it is nonetheless an interesting tale.
Mount Dragon has a similar feel to other Preston and Child books, but that's OK with me because I enjoy their stories.
They take the readers to interesting places where we meet a variety of people with incredible knowledge.
With that said, the book and story aren't entirely predictable, but if you've read much from Preston and Child, many of the surprises won't be surprises at all.I thought this was a new book when I read it and wrote the above review, and I just noticed that it's been around a long time.
I just couldn't get it to add up, even knowing this book was written in the mid-90s.Plus, (view spoiler)[Scopes, who turns out to simply be crazy, not crazy due to taking PurBlood, has gone so far as to steal documents about Levine's father who was a Holocaust victim, and then create new documents that say his father was a Nazi.
(Granted Levine has few options.) But Levine chooses to have an computerized version of himself created to 'live' with Scopes' computerized self in a computer world together when they know they are going to die.
The plot here involves a scientist, Guy Carson, who is working a scut job under a jealous supervisor when he is asked by GeneDyne CEO and founder, Brent Scopes, to take over a very important project at the GeneDyne facility, near Mount Dragon, in a remote arid section of New Mexico.
Carson works in a Level 5 facility, with protective biohazard suits and extensive decontamination procedures.
Guy and Susana discover that there are many secrets about, not only their project, but others before they got there.
The plot unfolds from there as events in both New Mexico and GeneDyne headquarters in Boston work to a climax.
One of the early books written by the co-efforts of Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child.
A young man named Guy Carson works for a drug company on the East coast in a mundane assignment.
One day he gets a call from the owner of the company and he is offered a job working at their secret lab in the deserts of New Mexico.
There is intrigue, science, investigation, and the scenario causes one to understand there is this fine line between fiction and reality.
I would recommend this book to all who are interested in mystery, science fiction, action, and as they psychobabble.
The first half of Mount Dragon focuses on a team of scientists working with apocalyptically dangerous viruses.
Preston and Child do an excellent job of showcasing an interesting scientific mystery to the readers that has a vaneer of plausibility despite their inadequate understanding of the source material.
This part of the story really shines -- the danger, tension and action escalates to an excellent and exciting ending.
A background subplot runs throughout the whole novel concerning the CEO of the firm and a political activist opposed to his work.
Despite these shortcomings, this is a good mystery and adventure story set in an intriguing contemporary scientific environment.
A good balance of science and action, with just enough character development to hold it together without becoming a soap opera.
The fat-shaming aimed at one of the scientists was completely unnecessary; it was fine that she was irascible and described as being a large woman, but they went too far by being specifically disgusted by her weight.
For shame, P&C!
I really liked Mime and wish we knew what happened to him!
I'd hope for another book in which Mime is a principle character, but this was written so long ago, I don't suppose it's likely.
This was a very Crichton-like book, specifically "Andromeda Strain" meets "Jurassic Park." Overall, not bad, but certainly not great either.
My favorite parts were the ones in which they discuss the amazing wonders of technology.
It's so very quaint.The characters are flat and boring.
The OSHA G-man seems to embody an early version of Pendergast, but that's about it for character development and depth.Whoever was responsible for proofreading and the formatting and layout of the book should have been fired.
Occasionally, the spacing between the paragraphs was different from the rest of the book.
I do not know why I never read Mount Dragon before now but I think its one of my favorite books from Preston and Child .I know I have a lot of favorites but this one really entertained me and I was talking about it to everyone I know .
If you're like me and am interested in biotechnology than this is the book for you -I had heard this compared to outbreak but its nothing like that and way better .
I really enjoyed the descriptions of New Mexico with the desert and the mountainous areas. The scenario of a deadly flu seems very realisitic. I know through some geneology research that epidemics such as flu and diphtheria have been very common throughout history. The description of a virtual world that was created displaying scenes and people sound like technology that is currently available perhaps on a more sophisticated level. Alot of action and some interesting characters make for a good adventure. The only negative was the rather contrived nature of the main character's family background.

I usually love Preston and Child's work. My fave is Cabinet of Curiosities. This one fell short for me. It seemed stretched out like the author was trying to keep a certain word count. Reading this was like running alongside a sprinter--fast at the start then peters out as it goes. I was slightly disappointed.
A bio-thriller about genetic engineering and a secret American “Area 51” type facility from which the hero and his female companion eventually escape into a desert chase climax. It’s an entertaining, plot-driven story; clichéd, short on believable characters and thin on credibility once the action heats up but still absorbing reading. 2.5 stars.
This being their second book together (first after their Pendergast debut) is more of a medical/techo thriller. Lots of that jargon also. But, later in the story, and the part three ending, you get more of their adventure action your used to seeing. Not one of their best, but enjoyable getaway. 3.5 stars.
part three seems a little drawn outi miss medical techno thrillers such as this
One of the best Doomsday Virus stories I've read. I don't give 5 stars often. But this story was engaging from beginning to end. Would make a good movie.
