https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/889746.Mrs_Peter_Rabbit
Um livro encantador sobre a vida fascinante de Peter Rabbit. Peter e todos os seus amigos correspondem a criaturas adoráveis. Sua esposa é um pouco madona e impede um pouco o coelhinho de ser divertido. Amei as ilustrações e fiquei mais ansiosa de ler o conto de Peter Rabbit de Beatrix Potter
Recently I read The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Grahame which is certainly better known than the numerous books written by Thornton W Burgess.
I was pleased to discover that the Burgess books were as charming as I remembered.
The Burgess books are easier to read since they are intended to be read by children.
Both Dickinson and Burgess filled their pages with the natural inhabitants of their beloved Massachusetts' fields and woods.
Dickinson's own words could equally apply to Burgess:The bee is not afraid of me,I know the butterfly;The pretty people in the woodsReceive me cordially.
It's a cute story, as one would expect from Burgess, who is a master storyteller.
But as is generally the case when his main character is female, his stories don't hold up to the passage of time nearly as well as they do when the characters are male; it's understandable, given that he was writing early in the 20th century and I suppose we can't expect hm to have been feminist by modern standards, but even by the standards of his time, he's more sexist than most.
As a young child, I would lose myself for hours in the simple world of the wood and pond inhabited by Little Joe Otter, Buster Bear, Grandfather Frog, and terrorized by Farmer Brown's Boy. I can remember the very shelf, even the exact spot in the little library in Felton, CA where these books were kept.
I do not recall if Old Man Coyote plays a role in Danny Field Mouse's story or the other way around, but this concept was presented several times.
Amidst all of unsuccessful readings I do this week, this one get me through! I don't know, am I tired of being adult? I just love children books so much :3
The prose and premise are exceedingly old fashioned. That being said, the soothing, gentle, nusery-quality of this book is just what the doctor ordered in terms of the stressful day I have had. I gave my dog the wrong medication, learned that a dear friend suffered a heart attack and ended by taking a bad tumble in the driveway. Peter Rabbit's views on life, stated at the beginning of each chapter, were like a balm. Ahhhh, love is sweet!
I am reading an original printing of this book from 1919. Pretty sweet, I'm afraid I'm going to break it!7/10/10 I finished reading this, btw. It was a cute kids book. Kind of fun to read such an old book. I was kind of disappointed that the story didn't actually end. They basically set up the stories for the rest of the series of books.
I liked it
My boys (5 and 6 years old) love anything by Thornton Burgess and this book was no exception.
Can't find my copy at the moment, but it's a vintage hardcover, maybe 1940s.
I liked it. Her name was little mrs. fuzzy tail.
