https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612456.Carrying_the_Fire
I learnt something too about Project Mercury, the predecessor of Gemini and Apollo; and by happy chance a few days ago picked up a copy of “Into Orbit” (written by the ‘Mercury Seven” astronauts) in a second-hand bookshop.Relatively early on Collins hilariously describes the wondrous training he received in the geology of (Earth) rocks, and in personal survival techniques.
Overall, this book is a supreme narrative of technological achievement and human wonderment in hardware, software, and ‘man-ware’ (and I include women and children within that last term).
Collins shows his excellent command of bringing down those events to paper - and by including both technical details (like orbital mechanics) and the depth of emotions he was going through, thus making the book a fascinating and precious read.
The author also sheds light on the more philosophical side of humanity's space exploration, including many pages of his own thoughts about the world in 1974, back when he wrote the book.
I knew a lot of the history, having been an enormous space buff as a child, but there's a difference in hearing it from a personal perspective.
It brings a different perspective.Other details are just amusing.
And if you're looking for deep insights into the personalities of Collins and his fellow adventurers, you'll find little direct information here.
(He also expresses a classic Playboy-style appreciation for attractive women and martinis that's somewhat startling these days, but the book was written in the 70s, after all.) But he also sells himself a bit short, self-deprecating as always--this work is engaging, articulate, endearing, and ultimately fascinating.
It was written in 1974, so the subject matter of space flight was a lot fresher on Collins's mind compared to a lot of NASA biographies that were written in the 2000s.
I think that gives the book a more lively feel than other biographies, since the Apollo program had just wound down and he could still recall things vividly.
I knew next to nothing about Collins (other than the obvious things) before reading this, but it's written so well that I now have a better grasp on his personality and experiences than I do for any other astronaut (or any other historical figure for that matter).
This venture has been structured for three men, and I consider my third to be as necessary as either of the other two.” He probably could have stuck around after Apollo 11 and walked on the moon as Commander on Apollo 17, but his experiences on Apollo 11 and Gemini 10 were enough, and he was content to walk away.I particularly enjoyed the behind the scenes look at things you don’t usually see in the space program, such as the frustrations of training, quarantine before and after the mission, honest personal and humanizing views of other astronauts, and dealing with the often overwhelming worldwide public relations required by the job.Collins is funny and self-deprecating.
I like the stark honesty and detail Collins uses to describe NASA, other astronauts he worked with, even his own somewhat pompous habits of thought that he pokes at with subtle humor.
Collins was a military man, an astronaut, and yet also a well-spoken scholar as is apparent with his words when he describes the feeling of being content never to return to space.
And he’s still alive today- a fascinating portrait of a space man.There’s one point in the book where he says unapologetically that he was glad there were no women astronauts at the time because it would be too complicated....
Carrying the Fire is the memoir of Michael Collins, who was command module pilot on Apollo 11, the first human lunar landing mission.
His description of an astronaut's worst nightmare--going around the country on speaking gigs to promote the space program, which he calls being 'in the barrel'--is especially memorable.Collins is the astronaut who wrote that he and his test pilot brethren were ill-suited to be the public faces needed to communicate the thrills and beauty of being in space--he thought that job would be better off in the hands of 'priests, poets and philosophers.' But of course, Collins puts it so much more eloquently than I can muster.He also shares, with his characteristic candor but not a hint of melancholy, his unprecedented isolation while his Apollo 11 crewmates journeyed to the lunar surface.
Everything back then was new, undiscovered, and spending more than weeks in Space was unheard of, unlike today.When I picked up this book -and despite the great reviews written about it- I was still hesitant to read it, not because it was another Astronaut autobiography but because it may be filled with terminology I didn't understand, and it was, however, Mike wrote in a way that made these big, unfamiliar words (along with phrases) easy to understand, he explained everything with precise attention to detail, even words you think wouldn't need explaining.
Michael Collins has a fantastic story to tell. He is a fine writer - first class, actually - and a wise and insightful human being. Enough said.
This book was mentioned in a radio interview (available on podcast as ABC program Conversations with Richard Fidler) with the Australian physicist (Prof Brian O'Brien) who worked on the Apollo missions.
Richard must have read this book, as he mentioned the book AND the documentary "Shadow of the Moon" to the Professor.
This sent me on an Apollo mission binge, and I watched many interviews with Michael Collins on YouTube, and was especially intrigued by his love of literature, even spontaneously erupting into a recital of verses by John Miltons "Paradise Lost", delivered with enough drama to noticeably unnerve the journalist interviewing him.
Unreal
As enjoyable as these pages are, the reader knows - as does the author of course - that it is all building up to the momentous day when he will finally sit at the 'tip of the pencil on the launch-pad' at Cape Kennedy on his way into space.The Gemini 10 mission he flies along with John Young is covered in every breathtaking detail, none more so than Collins' 2 EVAs (Extra Vehicular Activity - spacewalks to you and I).
That said, the whole exciting tale is really page turning stuff.The final chapters contain Collins' thoughts on space travel in general (written in 1973) and where it might be headed.
What to say other than that I'm overwhelmed with things described in this majestic book.To read about spacewalk and orbiting the moon firsthand left me with the feeling of extreme humility and at the same time left me inspired to continue my own explorations (whatever small they may seem) and to always be curious.Gemini 10 and Apollo 11 descriptions are like poetry.
Knowing that Michael Collins wrote it himself is astonishing.The last chapter with the author's thoughts about the world and his life after the moon landing are pure gold.Only thing I missed is how did the author's NASA assignment impact his family in those 6 years.
Collins talks about his history in joining the programme (at the second attempt), his experiences in the Gemini programme before Apollo, the tensions and differences that went into the design, testing, and flight of the vehicles themselves.
He deals frankly with his flight experiences and his lack of jealousy at not actually making a moon landing himself: he probably could have done on a later mission had he not consciously decided beforehand to walk away from spaceflight after Apollo 11.
His relationship with his flight companions is extraordinary, perhaps because he is the most outgoing of the group (Neil Armstrong coming "a distant second" in terms of self-containment to John Young, his commander on Gemini 10).
The mission commander, first man to set foot on the moon and subsequently a household name?
Or the command module pilot, alone in orbit around the moon while the landing progressed, never setting foot on its surface?Charles Lindbergh believes the latter, and I am inclined to agree with him.Carrying the Fire is the story of Michael Collins, the Apollo 11 command module pilot, and his career as a test pilot and astronaut.
I found the discussions of mission planning to be pretty interesting as well: the amount of forethought put into hazard prevention is astounding, even for one familiar with NASA's legacy of hazard and risk analysis.
When reaching the last pages of this book I was both eager to read what the last thoughts and conclusions from Collins were, and sad because I wanted more. When I finished reading Carrying the fire, I started questioning the saying "a picture is worth a thousand words". No picture of astronauts, rockets, Moon or Earth can describe the experience of being an astronaut and travelling to space as well as Michael Collins does in this book. Even though it doesnt depict in much detail the first landin
The way he describes the whole process of being selected and training to become an astronaut made me feel so close to it that when the Apollo 11 mission comes into action I felt a lot of that excitement, and a little like I was going to the Moon too.I´m no expert in writing styles, but in my opinion Michael Collins does a good job in this book.
But trust me, it´s worth it to go along with Michael Collins through his story of how he became an astronaut and finally reached the Moon.
I was told by a reputable source that this one is the standard by which other first-hand accounts of space travel are judged, and I can see why.
But of all the books I've read, "Carrying the Fire" is probably the best.
Collins has a wonderful frankness and sense of humor; his experiences as a pilot and astronaut offer a wonderful history of the American space program without the tendency to romanticize those efforts.
An amazing portrait of the space program by a man intimately involved in it who manages to never take himself too seriously, "Carrying the Fire" should be required reading for history buffs, space aficionados, and anyone who appreciates their heroes being human.
Michael Collins is one of the superdudes among amazing top test pilots."The third man" of the first lunar landing, and Gemini veteran.We're talking about a living legend.An astronaut's journey is exactly that.
A journey from almost the start of space exploration to the ultimate beginning of Moon exploration and on.What a story, and how well told, this has to be in the top 5 astrotales ever.The only reason I never gave it 5 stars was his political foot note.In retrospect I've had to change the rating to 5 stars.The whole decade was devoted to being first and Michael was obviously caught up in that alongwith the rest of the "free world".
This book brought back so many memories of growing up as a teenager in the 1960's and vicariously experiencing the adventures of the astronauts on TV.
It brought back the excitement of watching the lift-off of huge rockets with little capsules on top, with the astronauts riding off into space and the fire and explosion beneath them.
And it brought back that special summer evening when the family sat glued to the TV to see Neil Armstrong's first steps on the moon and hear his now famous first words..."That's one small step"...
I didn't think I would like this book as much as I did.
I read the dust jacket at Half Price Books and thought I'd give it a try.
Like most people of my generation, I know little about the space program of the 60s.
Collins' style (and especially his wonderful sense of humor) kept me hooked from the first page to the last.
The fact that we even got into space, let alone traveled to the moon.
Michael Collins is the best writer of all the astronauts. His memoir is full of delicious anecdotes about the process of becoming an astronaut and about the office politics and weird public relations efforts involved. His description of what it's like to be alone behind the Moon, isolated from not only the Sun but from all humankind including the LM crew who were necessarily on the front side, is thoughtful and inspiring. Carrying the Fire has made a contribution to vicarious human experience that will be very hard to match.
This is among my favorite space program biographies to date. Michael Collins, often thought of as the "third" astonaut on Apollo 11, recounts his experiences as a test pilot, a Gemnini astronaut and as the Command Module Pilot on Apollo 11. His observations shed light on the inner-worings of NASA during the 1960's, and he shares uncensored thoughts about his astronaut colleagues. While this book might make the average reader's head hurt, it's a great piece for a space buff who already knows a little bit about this era.
An account of an incredible journey by a very believable, very able, very modest writer. "There were no dull days in my time at NASA so there should be no dull pages in this book": and carries it off. Frightening in places even though the events themselves are well known. Completely unspoilt by the passage of time, either (the 1975 version, that is).
I found this to be a well written account of Michael's life and enjoyed it immensely. From his career prior to and including his part in the initial moon landing, all covered in enough detail to keep it interesting and readable without getting overly technical.Thank you Mr Collins for your book. Inspiring :)
This is a great book. If your attention wanders during the first fifty pages, do not give up. Collins went to the moon, okay? He knows what's up. So stick with him. His account of the Gemini 10 flight is some of the most exciting writing I've ever read. Apollo 11 was also awesome, but lacked some of the sparkling wonder of Gemini. Again, a great book. Loved it. Really. Read it!
This is such a fantastic book. Not only does Collins tell it like it is (or rather was), he writes beautifully and is such a personable narrator that I wished the thing could be twice as long as it is.
The best book about the early space program from a genuinely inspiring perspective. I'm honestly going to cherish my copy for years to come.
Excellent account of Collins' experiences as a NASA astronaut, with detailed descriptions of his Gemini and Apollo missions. Highly recommended!
Great book from one of the astronauts who went to the moon. Enough technical detail to give a good understanding of the science and enough human interest to keep it moving along.
