https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/481446.Nefertiti
Why is this book so popular? I'm quivering with rage.   Nefertiti. One of Egypt's greatest queens. She must have been an extraordinary woman. Right?Well, not according to the author. In Michelle Moran's novel, Nefertiti is basically the ancient equivalent of Kim Kardashian. She was beautiful, so she must have been very shallow. According to the author, Nefertiti was a very ruthless woman who was power hungry and cared far too much about her outward appearance. It must be true! If there's one thi
In Michelle Moran's novel, Nefertiti is basically the ancient equivalent of Kim Kardashian.
According to the author, Nefertiti was a very ruthless woman who was power hungry and cared far too much about her outward appearance.
*tries to remain calm* History/movies/books don't always portray historical female leaders in a good light.
I was like 'Wait, why is it called Nefertiti?' This book has slut shaming, sister shaming, body shaming, religion shaming, pharaoh shaming (you can't shame the pharaoh, he's the pharaoh!) and every other incarnation of shaming.
All I wanted to do was read a good book on Ancient Egypt.
UGH...PFFT...HEAD SHAKE and a wind-rustling SIGH about sums up my feelings for this MEHstorical bore festival. For this level of detail on life in ancient Egypt, I could have stuck with:  *** By the way, for those taking a trip down Nostalgia Boulevard right now seeing Steve Martin’s SNL masterpiece, I have added the lyrics in a spoiler so that those who don’t care can skip over it…otherwise…enjoy… (view spoiler)[ King TutKing Tut (King Tut)Now when he was a young man, He never thought he'd see


Moran demonstrated unflinchingly the horrible acts women are capable of commiting to gain power over one another through Nefertiti and her dealings with Kiya (the Second Wife) and her sister Mutny.
After reading the author's notes, I was impressed at how much research Moran did so she could confidently draw her own conclusions on the character of Nefertiti and write a novel firmly grounded in historical fact.
Mutny however was completely relatable and I think had this been written through Nefertiti's eyes, readers would've had no one to have sympathy for.Speaking of sympathy, as I often do when I'm finished a historical, I Googled the facts as soon as I was done.
Remind me next time I'm looking for a new book NOT to buy one that is advertised on perezhilton.com!
This was totally a summer beach read - although next time, I will wait for paperback (too heavy)!
Overall, my opinion of it while reading it was "meh" - I was happy to pick it up when I had free time to read, but I wasn't drawn to it, by any means.Also, the pharaoh was a total douchebag, to the point where his douchebaggery seemed way too over-the-top.
Nefertiti was pretty obnoxious, as well, and in the same unrealistic, "overacted" way.
This just made the book feel schlocky and dumb.
Ne znam, ali sa sigurnošću mogu reći da je knjiga čisto savršenstvo, po meni nema praznog hoda, svaki događaj je na svom mjestu i svaki je lik savršeno okarakteriziran.Zanimljivo je čitati o stvarnim osobama koje su postojale gotovo 3000 godina unazad.Nisam imala pojma da je Nefertiti bila toliko jaka žena sve dok nisam pročitala ovu knjigu.
Bila sam vrlo sretna kada se pred kraj knjige vratila na pravi put, ali nikada nisam zamišljala takav kraj njenog života kakav je ona imala.
Iskreno sam plakala na kraju knjige jer nešto takvo se dogodilo Nefertiti koja je tada živjela.Ekhnaton, nekadašnji Amenothep...
This book was rather disappointing.The story of Nefertiti and Akhenaton, two of Ancient Egypt's most emblematic leaders was always one of my favorites.
and in the end, they weren't met.According to several summaries I've read about this book, "Nefertiti" tells the story of the Royal (or First) Wife of Pharaoh Akhenaton and it's also somewhat biographic.
"Nefertiti" has a lot of historical inaccuracies and even some false information about the society of Ancient Egypt.
I have a hard time believing that any ruler could (or would be allowed) to behave in such a manner.It is clear that the author lacks the compreension about the society of Ancient Egypt...
I've had a lifelong love affair with ancient Egypt, especially the Armana period, and I've never seen it depicted quite like this.
Amunhotep (Ahknaten) was depicted as a headstrong, foolish kid,bad enough, but where oh where did she come up with her idea of Nefertiti's character?
Vain, venal, power-hungry, obnoxious - would these 2 people actually usher in not only the first known monotheistic religion in the world.
but also oversee the flowering of an artistic ethos that was radical in it's depiction of the everyday, firmly rooted in the natural world, and so startlingly lifelike that it's as fresh and modern today as it was four thousand years ago?
This particular historical fiction book reminded me a lot of what occurred in the lives of sisters Anne and Mary Boleyn in Philippa Gregory's book, The Other Boleyn Girl, except with an Egyptian twist.
It's easy to picture 1351 BC from Moran's vivid descriptions and use of various Egyptian words.
This is Moran's version of Nefertiti's tale, told through the eyes of her younger sister, Mutnodjmet.
For the most part, everything that occurs regarding Nefertiti is assumed.
I may just pick up another of her historical fiction books because, for my part, I'm always more interested in how historical figures lived rather than in what they did.
Fairly weak novel with sketchy historical research.
What I found to be fascinating about this book is that compared to other periods in history i.e. Tudor England, very little is known about it.
What an amazing imagination she has!This story is told in first person by Mutny, Nefertiti's younger sister.
While she is loyal to Nefertiti she also exhibits a strong will of her own that ultimately ensures her survival.I studied Ancient Egypt in depth when I was younger and have read several novels set in this time period.
Although none could compare with the details and complexity of the characters in this book.
An enjoyable historical fiction about the ambitious Nefertiti, who married the heir and future pharaoh Akhenaton. Much is obscure about that period of Egypt's history, so Michelle Moran's creativity comes forth in Nefertiti as she pictures a time of political intrigue, the building of a new city, art flourishing to all end up with a spectacular downfall. An interesting and absorbing historical fiction that provides a window into the sophisticated lifestyle back in 1300 B.C.
4.5 Se sabe muy poco sobre la verdadera historia de Nefertiti y su familia, hay mucha especulación y muchas versiones diferentes, por eso el trabajo de la autora rellenando los huecos vacíos me pareció muy bueno. Todo lo que es parte de la ficción tiene sentido y está enlazado de forma coherente y razonable. Hace sentir que los agregados importantes perfectamente podrían haber sido así como se cuentan.El libro está narrado en primera persona pero no tiene como protagonista a Nefertiti, como esp
Vemos a través de sus ojos la ascensión al trono de Nefertiti luego de casarse con el faraón Amenhotep, matrimonio que esperaba desde su nacimiento por tradición familiar.El amor que sienten las dos hermanas la una por la otra es inmenso, y Mutni no tiene ningún problema en vivir a la sombra de Nefertiti.
De todos modos el gran temor de la reina es que el faraón pierda su interés por ella y luego ser superada por la otra esposa, con quien tiene una rivalidad constante por la atención y por darle un hijo varón a Akenatón.La historia de Mutni también es muy interesante.
Tuthmosis, the older brother of Amunhotep is dead and the wise men of Egypt have concluded that Amunhotep has killed his brother for power, to become the pharaoh.And as the author Michelle Moran puts itWhatever the truth, that night the crown prince, Tuthmosis, dies, and a new crown prince rose to take his place.Thus begins the story of greed, unlimited power, dirty politics and one family’s journey into royalty.Nefertiti is chosen by Amunhotep’s mother and her aunt as his wife and the chief Queen.
Like the pharaoh, she turns a blind eye on the political unrest, encroaching enemies and devotes herself entirely to the pharaoh and her ambitions.This is not Nefertiti’s story alone.
And even then, because of Alexander the Great's conquest of Egypt, Cleopatra came from a long line of inbred Greeks and Macedonians.
Our narrator-protagonist comes from a family that has long sense given daughters to kings of Egypt for marriage.
Easy to feel for we watch as her sister's selfishness take her further and further away from the things she wants- a peaceful life and a family of her own.
Also, I never felt I really got to understand why Nefertiti was great enough to deserve to be the titular character; it would have been nice to see how she redeems herself.
Wow. Wow. Wow. Why have I waited so long to read this book? No need for a lengthy review. I don't have anything to say that isn't already said in the thousands of reviews this book has. I devoured this book in about 24 hours. It was addicting.
Historia/mitología egipciaEs un libro muy adictivo, lo disfruté bastante.
Me agradó conocer un poco más acerca de la cultura egipcia y más que nada sobre Nefertiti.
Le grité al libro en incontables ocasiones también me sorprendió en muchas otras.En algún momento me sentí un poco en shock por todo lo descrito, pero entiendo que el libro es inspirado en la historia, todo lo sucedido de una manera u otra sigue las pautas de la historia real.Recomendado para todo aquél que se sienta atraído por la historia de Nefertiti, el libro es tan cautivante que toda esa cantidad de páginas pasan volando.
Fifteen year old Nefertiti and her thirteen year old sister, Mutnodjmet, are the daughters and only children of the Vizier Ay, brother to the Queen of Egypt, Tiye.
With no other heir, Amunhotep is made Crown Prince and Tiye goes to her brother's family for a Chief Wife for him: Nefertiti.
The Hittites are encroaching on Egyptian territory; Amunhotep - who becomes Akhenaten - becomes more and more paranoid and obsessive; and Kiya's father, the Vizier and now High Priest of Aten, Panahesi, scheming to raise his family higher.
And to me, when I look at the famous bust by the artist Thutmose, I see a woman who has seen a good deal of sadness - after all, at least four of her six daughters died before her, as well as her husband.And as for her (half-)sister, Mutnodjmet, there is absolutely nothing whatsoever in the historical record to suggest that she was any sort of intellectual or that she had an altruistic bone in her body, let alone that she ever had any desire to become a physician.
Siempre me ha encantado la historia del Antiguo Egipto, y si bien este no es un libro de historia, sino un ficción histórica, me encantó de principio a fin.Debo decir que este libro no fue lo que me esperaba, empezando porque está narrado desde el punto de vista de la hermana de Nefertiti, no de Nefertiti misma.
Vemos como ambas hermanas van perdiendo poco a poco el pequeño rastro de niñez que podía quedarles cuando se ven envueltas en las manipulaciones, mentiras y traiciones del palacio y todo lo que envuelve la política egipcia de aquella época.Este libro me encantó demasiado.
It's not a bad book, but it's not Pauline Gedge. Narrator here is too much of a prefect princess.However, Moran does get points for research.
I couldn't help but liken Nefertiti to Anne Boleyn: both driven by their families and their own ambitions for power, both used religion to seal the fates of their relationships, and both supported and tolerated an unstable king, making foolish decisions along the way to hold on to their positions.
Mary Boleyn could be easliy compared to Mutnodjmet: both quietly beautiful and bound to their sister queens even though they were used and treated as servants, they each desired life outside of court and finally achieved that, but neither of them ever betrayed their families in the process, loyal to the end.
At first the back cover had me ready to read when I saw "meticulously researched" stated by the Boston Globe's review on the back.
It also lacked the one thing every other "meticulously researched" book on ancient Egypt lacks.
No one ever> uses the actual Kemetic names of cities or gods.
I've independently studies Egypt my entire life, I doubt the author spent more than a year, two at most, researching.
Certain items she used in the story didn't even exist in Ancient Egypt.
Many times I found myself grimacing at the typos & the over use of adverbs.
Yuck yuck yuck.
Sorry, I must not be in line with the New York best seller's list's standards.
This was poorly written, the characters weren't believable, and the main character was especially 'catty' and 13-year-oldish/Disney showish.
What a very tedious book to get through.
I kept reading, hoping it would redeem itself (I'd never read an Egyptian novel and really wanted to enjoy it), but boy oh boy did it ever flop!
I'm definitely avoiding Moran's writing from hear on out.
There are just too many other good books out there that I could be enjoying.
Sorry, Moran.
I think a better title for this novel might have been, "Mutnodjmet, The Chief Wife's Sister." If your able to endure the entire story, you will become well acquainted with that phrase.
You never get to really know Nefertiti, or what she is thinking, but you do get to witness one whiny temper tantrum after another.
I almost choked when Vizier Ay tells his 15 year old daughter Nefertiti on her wedding night, "you know what to do, right?" I thought so much of the story was unrealistic and highly improbable.
While I love anything about ancient Egypt, this book was quite a disappointment to me.
It seemed that this story was set in the modern day, rather than in the past.While the plot of the story was interesting, a lot of the characters became more annoying than anything as the story went on.
I became less and less interested in Nefertiti's struggle to cope with her eccentric husband and the Egyptian people.
I just wanted the story to end, which was such a disappointment - I love ancient Egypt!
Borrowed this from my lovely friend Pam!So this story follows Nefretiti and her family as she is wed to the Pharoah.
With the looming threat of war just beyond the boarders and a leader who is going against everything the people of Egypt believe in makes it difficult to keep your family safe.
Incredibly descriptive and beautifully laced with accurate historic facts.
This book stands out in a crowd for sure.
The only issue I had was getting use to the slow pacing of this book.
It's historical fiction, which is something I don't get to read often enough.
Overall, beautiful writing and heart-rending story for all ages.
What a trip! I truly enjoyed my Egypt read
Her book seems to reach for it, bringing the idea of a historical and controversial queen to the readers intimacy with the relationship she has with her sister.
In fact, reading through a historical account of Nefertiti after completion of the book has left me wondering where the author found her sources and I hope she can provide more details in the future.
However I will say that the book did encourage me to do my own research on Nefertiti so I guess that is a worthwhile conclusion.
The author in her note at the end of the book tells us that she is faithful to the history of the period, but from my own search into that time I know that it is not true.
I also can't like the way she portrayed Akhenaten and Nefertiti at all, nor do I think that that was the way they were, based on what little I know of them.
Take away the historical references, and you've got a good story.
The interactions between the two sister, was a very good story, though at some points not very believable.
