https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/950156.The_Heckler
This is the twelfth book in Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series and the first in which a character known as the Deaf Man appears.
The Deaf Man is a criminal mastermind who will appear in several subsequent books and who has a special gift for tormenting Steve Carella and the other detectives of the 87th.The Heckler begins when a businessman reports that he has become the victim of an apparent practical joker who phones him repeatedly, warning him to vacate the loft where he runs a clothing business or he will be killed.
Πέρυσι τέτοια εποχή διάβασα για τελευταία φορά βιβλίο της σειράς (αλλά και γενικά του συγγραφέα) και η αλήθεια είναι ότι μου έλειψαν οι χαρακτήρες, η ατμόσφαιρα, οι διάλογοι, το όλο ύφος γραφής και η ρεαλιστική αποτύπωση του κόσμου των αστυνομικών.
Όμως αν δεν θέλω να ξεμείνω γρήγορα από βιβλία της σειράς (για τα μεταφρασμένα μιλάω πάντα), τότε θα πρέπει να τα διαβάζω αραιά και που.Όσον αφορά την υπόθεση, διάφοροι καταστηματάρχες δέχονται καθημερινά απειλητικά τηλεφωνήματα από κάποιον άγνωστο, λέγοντάς τους ότι αν δεν φύγουν μέχρι το τέλος του μήνα, θα πεθάνουν.
Σίγουρα από τα καλύτερα βιβλία της σειράς που έχω διαβάσει (αν και όλα πάνω-κάτω είναι στο ίδιο εξαιρετικό επίπεδο ποιότητας).
Another great read in the 87th Precinct series. A friend of Meyer Meyer's family comes to him as he has received death threats to vacate an old loft where he sells women's dresses. Soon the threats spread to other businesses and a body is found in Grover Park killed by a shotgun blast and left naked. Steve Carella follows leads and Meyer is following his case separately. An officer ends up in hospital and all hell breaks loose in Isola. Everything leads to a suprising climax.Great stuff. Amm hooked on this series now.
It certainly provides a terrifyingly easy scheme to shut down New York.The Deaf Man is at it again, harassing the 87th squad in a fiendish plot to rob a bank of $2 million.
Clues abound, but in his usual obeisance to realism, things go wrong, communication is imperfect, i.e. shit happens.As far as shutting down NY, the plotters plant small incendiary devices in public places, like movie theaters, ball parks, paint stores, etc., all timed to go off at the same time.
'She came in like a lady, that April.' McBain follows the poetic line with a calm, hopeful beginning in this 12th visit to Isola.
Not that I'm missing him at all.
From the gentle beginning, through the tangled investigation, true suspenseful tension and climactic finale I've got to say this was one of the best so far.
My edition had a fascinating little afterword by McBain on the book and the series so far.
Miss at your peril.
Spring reverie in Isola is disturbed when a man is found dead by a nasty shotgun wound. Meanwhile, businessmen all over the city are being threatened to evacuate their premises, with the common theme of a nearby bank, jewelry store, etc. This 12th novel of McBain introduces the Deaf Man, an archvillian and master of the feint. Once again, Detective Steve Carella gets too close to the truth and gets shot, regaining consciousness just in time to avert an almost perfectly planned robbery by a sociopath.
Another good entry in the series. This one may have taken me a short while to get into, but once I did, there was no putting it down. What starts as a simple police procedural becomes something more along the way, as a simple robbery grows into acts of terrorism, and McBain gives us a better class of criminal in the Deaf Man. I am very interested to see him return to plague the 87th Precinct and most importantly, Steve Carella.
just finished this one, tuesday evening, eight thirty...apparently a foot of snow has fallen the last twenty-four...so we're up over 200" of snow for the year.
16'8" enough to make a snowman or two.
good story.
the heckler.
this story is a hoot.
has attitude, flavor, april.
remember the paul simon song?
was it paul simon?
april...come she will.
need to read some more mcbain.
this is maybe what, #8?
got this one on a deal, too...maybe just one of those kindle deals.
you open the kindle to read.
"begin reading".mcbain?
you bet.good yarn.
as the song has it.
This was a quick read. I bought the book at a second hand store and remembered reading Ed McBain books many years ago but I didn't like this story very much - too much gratuitous violence and I know the main nasty didn't get his just desserts even though he disappeared. The crime was carefully planned to create the maximum diversion and the percentage of probability didn't work out in the end. I'll definitely get back to Bruno Chief of Police for my next read.
This book took a bit of a departure from the previous novels in that there was a clever master criminal, only identified as 'the deaf man', challenging the squad from the 87th Precinct. No petty crime, this one effected a large portion of the city.Not much else to say about the plot as I don't want to give anything away. If you have read the earlier books then by all means continue on with this one.
James Bond used to be a fairly ordinary spy doing ordinary things.
A super villain wants to destroy the entire world!
All of the worst tropes of spy novels came out of Ian Fleming's sudden shift to goofier, campy levels.This book is Ed McBain doing the same thing.
Forget small crimes and murders.
What if we had a super villain?The answer is, screw you.
I didn't sign up for that campy scale of nonsense.
I like the conversations of small time criminals and cops.
This book?
The super villain angle is obnoxiously dull.My least favourite 87th Precinct book so far.
Businessmen are receiving harassing phone calls.A dead, naked man is found in the park.Can the two crimes be related?An interesting, though not particularly memorable entry in the series.
From the very beginning when he describes the city and its seasons, he sucks you in yet again.
This time, it's the Deaf Man who's battling the men of the 87th.
The Deaf Man is a great bad guy - super smart, one step ahead of everyone, not high up on the conscience food chain.
But the cat and mouse game of the Deaf Man is pulled out with a feeling of effortlessness, and the finale where havoc erupts throughout the city eerily evoked 9/11.
Can't wait for more Deaf Man books.
mcbain unravels a crime novel here that is unconventional in its presentation, although it gives us a lot of traditional twists to chew on, because its protagonists are so over-the-top useless.
they unravel the dual mysteries of who is making crank calls trying to get business owners to vacate their businesses and the discovery of a dead body to varying degrees of success, but these successes and failures have absolutely no effect on the outcome of the novel.
The only other Ed McBain book I’ve read is Cop Hater, the inaugural 87th precinct novel, which I thought was okay but ordinary.
However I was a callow twenty year old at the time and so my opinion is easily discounted.Having now picked up The Heckler, I can say at least one of this series is really exciting.
This is an ingeniously plotted thriller with a criminal mastermind and a chaotic ending which I imagine will be even more shocking in a post 9/11 America.
This, the first of the 87th Precinct books I've read, was a good, suspenseful, twisty thriller. This intricately plotted novel marks the first appearance of a criminal mastermind called the Deaf Man, a recurring character in the series. I definitely want to read more of these books.
Well I'm back to the 87th Precinct for this one ...
and what a great trip it's been.I've been trying to read these in order, but, for reasons beyond my control, I read book 16 before books 12 through 15; so I'm now back to 12, "The Heckler." As this book begins, we learn that a businessman in town is receiving phone calls in which he is told that if he doesn't vacate his loft, his life will be in jeopardy.
After a while, he begins getting large deliveries of things he didn't order.
I have been a fan of this series reading them in the order they were published. I'm not sure i like the direction this entry is taking. Up to now they have been good combination of police procedural and good action. The characters have been well developed and the plots interesting and realistic. This book seems to be moving in the direction of a master criminal concept and I'm not in favor of that move. The Deaf Man strains the credibility that these stories have always had.
High noteHere's a high point to this series. One detective can't catch a break, it seems. But in spite of that, McBain doesn't disappoint. Solid 5 stars.
5/10 Very mildly entertaining very light reading. Would not read another from author.
Ed McBain’s 87th Precinct books are always a good read and this one doesn’t disappoint. I liked the Deaf Man. He is a well developed baddie.
There is no secondary mystery to counterpoint the main plot, unless you count Andy Parker's undercover stakeout at a candy store looking for pushers, but that's mentioned in passing and nothing comes of it.It's a shame that the introduction of the Deaf Man, one of my favorite characters in the series, and such an audacious, chaotic scheme, go to waste in a largely hollow book.
The main point of interest for me is the shift to more of the book spent with the bad guys, and a greater depth to their characters, which was missing in the earlier books, which largely kept the action focused on the cops.But there are several implausibilities that hamper the plot for me.
Also interesting is the first appearance of a new recurring villain, the Deaf Man. Playing Moriarty to the Precinct's Sherlock, the Deaf Man is a somewhat low-rent criminal genius, who works his vast plan to distract the city while robbing a newly constructed bank vault with a motley crew of second-hand crooks and punks.
His role as Moriarty is blatantly pointed out by Kling, who mentions having just read The Red Headed League, a Sherlock Holmes story featuring a similar bait-and-switch scenario.Possibly the most interesting thing about The Heckler is that in the end, he is not thwarted by brilliant detective work, but by a simple twist of fate and a moment of bad luck.
Enjoyable read from the 70'sI read all the 87th precinct books back in the day and loved the all. It was a real treat to reread this book.
Kindle unlimited"There are crazy people all over, you know that, don't you?"Spring was intoxicating the city air, but the harassing anonymous telephone calls planting seeds of fear around town were no April Fool's joke.
Connections are getting made fast and furious, and there's a buzz in the air about the Deaf Man, a brilliant criminal mastermind.
Draws and shoots driver who a little later gives the other two in the gang and all the details.The deaf man disappears into the river.
The deaf man muredered him to keep him quiet.
Steve Carella gets shot again, this time by the “Deaf Man.” This is getting a little old, this constant use of Carella as a punching bag or the character around which the “mystery” is structured (like his sister’s wedding in an earlier novel).
It’s amazing, to me, that these novels were bought and published.
I know why I read them now, that is, because I’ve read the 1980s 87th Precinct, and know how good McBain gets, but how ever did he survive long enough with work of this poor caliber?
And while I like a good detective story, this one seemed to keep leading me down a gilt walkway but didn't give me much of a payoff in the end.It's the story of a bank heist in the 87th Precinct, which is the precinct McBain writes about, more often than not.
The ending is not just contrived but feels as if a light switch was simply turned off to finish the story.
Se non ricordo male (l'ho già restituito al proprietario) faceva parte di una qualche collana dove, onestamente, non sempre venivano pubblicate grandi cose.Sarà una recensione breve, perchè l'ho letto da poco, ma da quanto non mi ha lasciato niente, mi stavo perfino dimenticando di averlo letto.
Per cui mi affretto scrivere quelle poche impressioni che ho avuto e passo oltre.La trama non è stata niente di particolare, anzi, anche un po' banale, il non detto più che mistero crea confusione e il lettore si ritrova ad andare avanti senza il minimo interesse per gli indizi e le soluzioni.I personaggi sono piatti e non suscitano nessuna empatia.
So much of the story is about The Deaf Man's plan to rob a bank that you kind of root for him to get away with it like Parker.
Here the Deaf Man decides to create mayhem all over the city with explosive and incendiary bombs so that they can rob the bank and make their way out of town during the confusion.
It seems to be planned perfectly.
I'm looking forward to the book where one of our cops gets the drop on the bad guy first.
These guys are great detectives but they aren't so good in a fight.
This book in the 87th Precinct series raised the stakes a little.
Rather than one murderer or a single crime to solve, this one was a series of connected incidents that were leading towards a huge plot to rob a bank.
He's a major part of this series now, and a seemingly good guy, it's not fair that he ends up on the wrong end of an argument again.Otherwise this was a good story.
Less focused on the city as a character and moving more towards a fast-paced plot, it was another solid entry in the series.
