https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8455362-il-morto-di-maigret
Αν δεν έβλεπα το τρέιλερ της σειράς με πρωταγωνιστή τον αγαπημένο μου ηθοποιό Ρόουαν Άτκινσον δε θα ήξερα ότι υπήρχε αυτός ο συγγραφέας πόσο μάλλον ο χαρακτήρας του.Μαιγκρέ: Γάλλος επιθεωρητής / ντετέκτιβ φτιαγμένος από πένα Βέλγου συγγραφέαΠουαρώ: Βέλγος επιθεωρητής / ντετέκτιβ φτιαγμένος από πένα Αγγλίδας συγγραφέως.Ένα είδος λογοτεχνίας που δεν είμαι μεγάλος φαν.
Αυτή η νουάρ ατμόσφαιρα του χειμωνιάτικου Παρισιού, τα όλο ζεστασιά (cosy) γαλλικά μπιστρό (όπου έγιναν και δολοφονίες αλλά δεν έπαυαν να είναι κόζι) Ο ίδιος ο Μαιγκρέ που ήταν πάντα ένα βήμα μπροστά.
Some mysterious telephone calls to Chief Inspector Maigret piques his interest enough that he gets involved to try to foil a murder in Maigret’s Dead Man, the 29th novel in the series.
Who was he?I will not ruin the fun of this novel by telling you any more than that; suffice it to say that Maigret will not only learn the victim’s name and his killer, but he will manage to solve an even larger crime.
Readers will love Maigret’s skill and relentlessness in solving several crimes and resolving a messy family situation.
While the novel was released in 1947, Maigret’s Dead Man will enthrall readers today as much as it did 70 years ago.
Maigret's Dead Man is a welcome relief from a couple of previous novels as is set in Paris, with Maigret once more to the centre and restored to overseeing his department on the Quai des Orfèvres.
The detective isn't surprised when a body turns out to be this frightened man and the reader is engaged as the victim becomes known as Maigret's dead man.Written just after the World War 2, the Paris we see is full of illegal foreigners, with designated areas which the people by and large keep within.
Following the pattern of the dead man's last movements Maigret is able to gain more knowledge of him and ultimately find out who is was.
It was enjoyable, not least because of its overall length and is hopefully not my last encounter with the Parisian detective.An unidentified man has been murdered on the streets, a man who had been phoning Maigret throughout the afternoon of his death.
Maigret logically gathering information, turning supposition and guesswork into fact.We identify the victim, we get a break in the case, again after some patient police work, cause some panic in the ranks of those responsible and after a few more mini-adventures close out the case.
Now finished re-reading (listening to) this re-named novel.My review earlier of 'Maigret's Special Murder.'"One of the very best Maigret novels. You can see and smell the streets, the slums, the clubs, cafes and bars, and the people and crooks of Paris just after the war as Maigret tracks the killers of a man who had rung Maigret from a variety of bars for help from his pursuers throughout a day. Maigret feels beholden to the victim, and then the case becomes part of something far bigger ...."
One of the very best Maigret novels. You can see and smell the streets, the slums, the clubs, cafes and bars, and the people and crooks of Paris just after the war as Maigret tracks the killers of a man who had rung Maigret from a variety of bars for help from his pursuers throughout a day. Maigret feels beholden to the victim, and then the case becomes part of something far bigger ....This was the basis for this Xmas's BBC Maigret with Rowan Atkinson as the surprisingly good hero. It followed the story faithfully and successfully.
I love the atmosphere in which and the pace at which the police used to work back then: no definite schedule, but enough time for an apéritif at noon and a good lunch at a small bistro... with no mobile phones or computers at their disposal... Makes me very nostalgic.
Läste med Pariskartan tätt intill.
A corpse is dropped off at 1 AM, bang in the centre of Paris.
Maigret begins to obsess about it.A particularly enjoyable case,not least because it again throws light on his home life, how he works and his relationship with Madame Maigret.
Apparently when a case is not going at all well Maigret will sometimes "throw a sickie" and stay home for a day or two, reading Dumas and sipping Madame's herbal tea.
The working techniques of the Paris police of the time were fascinating; it made me wonder if American forensics of the time thought of putting a victim's clothes in a paper bag and beating it with a stick to extract the dust for analysis!Delicieux, comme toujours.
Enternaing bookSimenon doesn't so much write a mystery but more how Maigret solves crimes.
The crime occurs with certain clues revealed and as Maigret hunts down those initial clues, more clues are revealed which leads to more crimes being linked to the original murder until finally the whole affair is revealed and solved.
It is more fun to read the book with a map of Paris and see how Maigret zips around in the city.
In both novels I felt that it was as if I was in the novel following Maigret around, observing him as he solved the crime.
My sense of past tense was not very strong so it was quite a slog, especially when it turned out the murder had taken place in the past, which one couldn't get with a weak understanding of the pluperfect.This time I'm reading Maigret in English, thanks to the kindness of Kate Smith of Penguin UK.
The mystery wasn't bad; apparently like most Maigrets it was long on dialogue and very much a police procedural.
Maigret cares a lot, which means that he stays up for several nights running, to find out about a man who kept calling, saying that he was pursued by bad guys.
When he's found dead, Maigret wishes there was more that he had done to prevent it.
Notes:February 12, 2017 –  60.0%February 12, 2017 –  50.0% "Sometimes there are people which you shouldn't never meet....be with and even to don't know that they exist."February 12, 2017 –  50.0%February 12, 2017 –  10.0% "24:00"February 12, 2017 – page 0  0.0% "If somebody likes detectives...
old style this is work is made for you."February 12, 2017 – page 0  0.0% "Now on TV with Rowan Atkinson now playing in the series Maigret (2016 TV series).IF you are asking me, Georges Simenon is a good writer and I have already viewed one another work."And as end conclusion, there all types people on the street...
and people should be careful, with who are they with and who are they messing with.
One of the longest to date, I found this story to be particularly unfocused. I am not one of the adherents to the "later Maigret novels are bad" doctrine, but this one I think shows that the series, as it pivots away from its initial run, wobbles a bit. A lot of aimless wandering, with a focus on a central character (the dead man) who doesn't really lead to either the central mystery or the central psychological spine.
The only issue I had was that mid-way through the book Simenon breaks one of the cardinal plotting rules; throwing in a twist from left field without any prior signal to the reader it was coming, when there was no need to keep the reader in the dark. But while in a lesser writers hands this would be unforgivable, but when Simenon does it, it seems like a stroke of genius somehow.
Nagyon mozgalmas epizód, amiben Maigret a szokásosnál aktívabb és pimaszkodóbb is kicsit. A Coméliau bíróval folytatott telefonbeszélgetés a legjobb jelenet benne. Jól összekötötte a telefonálgató embert a pikárdiai gyilkosságsorozattal, és közben ledöntött némi calvadost, borókapálinkát és grogot is a torkán a jó felügyelő. Még mindig bolondul szeretem a rakpart leírását a hajnali fényben, a régi ügyek félmondatos felemlegetését, a mindig türelmes és megértő Madame Maigret-t, és ezt a komótos nyomozást, ami mindig sok várakozást, csilliárdos taxizgatást és állandó telefonálgatást foglal magába. :) Bővebben a blogon: http://pupillaolvas.blogspot.com/2018...
Pues este libro me gusto mucho! En esta ocasión el comisario Maigret esta tras los pasos de una banda de eslovacos y polacos que cometen una serie de horribles asesinatos!La trama esta bastante complicada mas el final es bueno!
Já perdi a conta ao número de vezes que li a palavra "maquinalmente" nos romances do Comissário Maigret. Fora isso, é mais uma história agradável, de saborosa leitura, e apesar de algumas tiradas de audaz narração de Simenon, é muito rotineiro.
The murder of a nice guy who happens by the slightest chance to run afoul of a murderous gang of robbers. Maigret tracks them down using everything from police sweeps to scrutiny of railroad timetables and deducing why the corpse was dumped in an unlikely spot. Notable for Mrs. Maigret actually playing a part and for Maigret laughing at one point: can’t remember that ever happening before! Also a deadpan comic interview between M and his nemesis judge Comileau.
Less drinking in this one than in others.Good build up of tension and a nice plot
3.5/5
Maigret has compassion even for the worst person, but justice is done.
Cea mai bună alegere pentru cine vrea să descopere genul romanului polițist. Simenon, autor prolific și, în sectorul său, genial. Suspans garantat!
i love simenon but this one not the best...still pretty good
My first Maigret book. I wasn't disappointed. There's a sensation of human kindness and warmth in Maigret I liked a lot.
The story operates solely in Paris and the atmosphere conjured up in these pages is truly thrilling.
You get all of the sounds and smells of the City, the poverty of immigrants, the awful conditions people live in, and the contradictions of Paris after the war.
You also get many examples of the rough handed nature of Police tactics.
Maigret's status, reputation, and position within the Police is explored and fully justified, and his personal emotions - exhaustion, puzzlement, anger and sadness - run through the book as a set of well developed background narratives to the story.
Het doet altijd deugd weer eens een goede Maigret te lezen.
Maigret books are pretty uniformly wonderful. In this one, Paris of the 40's is a real, living thing in and the people, especially Maigret, came completely alive for me. I can so clearly see some parts of this novel that I feel like I lived it.
Before Maigret can even identify and reach the man, a murder indeed occurs, and the rest of the book is taken up with establishing the motives and purposes of the killers.This story is a bit different from the usual Maigret in that most often, key details are kept hidden from the reader and only disclosed in a final chapter that ties up all the loose ends.
A man is killed, and after three days not only is there no trace of the murderers but we don't know anything about the victim!" "So, to get to the point, you have come to the conclusion that our man was a waiter in a cafe." And so on.
Fresca, palpitante, pare una creatura un po’ algida, talmente consapevole della propria bellezza da permettersi di maltrattare i suoi ammiratori.I boulevard, le brasserie, i caffè, sono il palcoscenico dove Maigret e i suoi uomini cercano di sbrogliare l’aggrovigliata matassa del caso, rincorrendo una vita (quella del morto), che si accontenta di piccole cose.Ma a volte basta poco, è sufficiente chinarsi a raccogliere qualcosa, per finire nel mirino.L’altra protagonista del racconto, è la violenza.
Bello stile, qualche particolare in più lo avrebbe reso un ottimo libroUn libro scritto abbastanza bene, devo dire che quello che ho apprezzato di più è proprio lo stile di scrittura.
Altri, invece, li ritengo dei particolari mancanti: (view spoiler)[a metà libro, si viene a scoprire che gli assassini del morto sono in realtà degli spietati assassini noti come la banda della Piccardia.
Se sono davvero dei fuggiaschi di cui hanno parlato molto i giornali, perché non fare anche un minimo riferimento nelle prime pagine del libro?
(hide spoiler)]Nonostante tutto questo, ho apprezzato la lettura, anche se non mi ha entusiasmato come mi aspettavo.
