https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5526.Dear_John
Dear John by Nicholas Sparks is one of those books I've developed a love/hate relationship with.
I love, love, love the first part of the book, and I immediately fell for the main character, John Tyree.
His readers would surely appreciate it.About the book… John Tyree's life is spiraling down hill when he decides to join the army.
During a leave, he comes home and meets Savannah, and that's when his life takes a turn.
Let's just say, I'll proceed with caution when choosing another Sparks book in the future.
In typical Sparks fashion, your not left with a happy ending.
I just don't like to invest my time and the roller coaster of emotions he sends you through only to be left unsatisfied.
(If you've seen the movie Cold Mountain, you may get what I mean.
I felt the same way at the end of it, "Hello...I spent 3 hours watching this movie for this!) Anyway, I felt like this could have been a really good book had it ended differently.
I mean the poor guy is left with absolutely nothing, while (thanks to him)she goes off into the sunset with another man.
Did I mention the man was left with nothing!
I gave it 3 stars because I wasn't happy with it's ending, I wanted the happily ever after.Now I'm a more cynical 24 year old, and a lot of the issues and relationship troubles for John and Savannah resonate with me a lot more than they did for my younger, inexperienced self.I've upped my rating to 4 stars.
Though I'm not a fan of the insta-love beginning, their relationship while John goes back into the army and thereafter is much more convincing, and real.
This book needs to have a different title like maybe   The Rehash   or   The Tragic Tragedy  . Seriously how many times do we have to hear about the same scenes?!?!Ok so I didn't hate it, but really it was a bit of an overload. I had it coming though, I mean what did I expect by picking up a Nicholas Sparks novel? Sparks is a popular author for a reason. His writing draws you in but not forcefully. The words gently tug you along and before you know it you have to finish the book. I will give him
This book needs to have a different title like maybe 
It's like Sparks was sitting at his computer and thought about all the ways to make it romantically tragic.
Don't get me wrong there a scenes where you are like that was good, but he tries to stick in too many.
In the first half of the book he keeps saying and my love grew stronger at least 4 or 5 times.
Basically I'm saying to pick up something else if you are not into sappy, sad, melodramatic stories.
Like a lot of other people, I read this simply because I saw the preview for the movie and I HAVE to read a book before I see the film adaptation.
I really enjoyed the interaction between John and his father a lot more than I did his relationship with Savannah, maybe because it seemed far more real.
I always know what I'm getting myself into with a Sparks book, but in this case I left feeling totally dissatisfied; it's like when you go to a buffet, and you know what you're about to eat is terrible for you, but you binge anyways and have massive regrets immediately afterward.
I liked it when John talking about his awkward relationship with his calm/quiet father, but my enthusiasm faded when he talked much about Savannah.
What happened to John is love at first sight with a sweet, nice and almost perfect girl with almost no real conflict between them.
I really wish Sparks would talk more about Asperger syndrome that John's father suffered from rather than his agitating relationship with Savannah.
<333 Alright, it's not always agitating when John narrated his relationship with Savannah.
What happened to John and Savannah in the end wasn't something that everyone would call a happily ever after, but it's still acceptable to me.
Mom recommended this one- I hate Nick Sparks' writing. It's too simplistic and yet too formal. In my opinion, no one in this day and age is allowed to use "for" when they mean "because." Too plot driven and he spells everything out. I might have loved this in 7th grade...
I took the recommendation of a female friend whom I respect highly and bought this book, but when I first looked at it, put it aside figuring it was a romance novel that would only appeal to women.
How wrong I was.The "leading man", John Tyree, a US Army sergeant who served in Bosnia and Iraq, was a highly sympathetic character, as was "leading lady" Savannah.Not only were the characters good, but the plot was also.The book moved very quickly and I finished it in one sitting, and then had to eat crow to the woman who recommended it to me.
I just bought four more Sparks novels from Amazon, the book was that much fun to read, even for this curmudgeonly retired wire service reporter.
But when I saw the re-release of Dear John by Nicholas Sparks (with Channing Tatum on the cover!!) and the fact that a movie was made based on the novel, I wanted to revisit John and Savannah.I think it goes without saying that Nicholas Sparks is one of my favorite authors.
He has a knack for pulling the reader right into the story.Dear John is story of love, loss and emotion.
And the questions of "what if...?" begin.Dear John is one of my favorite reads by Nicholas Sparks.
If you love a good, seamless love story that pulls on your heart strings, then you need to read Dear John.
Together the pair plans a future together, counting down the days until John's discharge as Savannah helps him understand his father and he in turn feels contentment for the first time in his life.
The two try to maintain a long distance relationship but the war changes John and the years apart put a strain on their deep love.
Savannah as the heroine was a little too perfect for me but their heartbreaking love story and the regret that they both share will keep you up into the wee hours, and leave you wondering about John long after you've finished reading its bittersweet ending.

This was a great book! I'm a huge Nicolas Sparks fan & have read all of his books now:) This is one of my favorites! Great story, easy to read, & it really sucks you in!Ok, I loved it!!! When is Nicolas coming out with a new book!?!?!?
I was looking for a book to read for the El trip home but didn't have time to really search.
This was in the discard section of the library and I grabbed it thinking that it couldn't be that bad.
After all, the Notebook was a good guilty pleasure.
Could not have been more wrong.
Ugh. I wanted to tear my eyes out and stomp on them after reading this.
This book was beyond preachy and condescending.
I have to finish books when I start them so I read this to the end.
So long rant short, I did not enjoy this book.
DISAPPOINTING!!!!!! This poor guy gives literally everything he has to a woman he loved for a few months when he was a kid and leaves himself with nothing by the age of 30 so she can help her sick husband live? Sorry - not the romantic story I was looking for. Yeah, it's great for little Miss Savanah, but poor John ends up 3o with his whole entire life ahead of him and nothing to show for his past (including the only things his father held dear) or to share with the family we have to hope he eventually has.
I had the chance to watched the movie version first and now that I've finally read the book, I must admit that the latter is much better. I felt that Savannah was impatient in the movie version. But in the book, Savannah's reasons and her story was further explained. For me, this is one of those books that tells us that some things are just not meant to be.
Why does he has to write such books which are so amazing and wonderful and frustratingly good?.I mean this is so unfair,everytime i pick Nicholas spark's book I know at the end I am gonna cry and amazingly I am gonna love the book immensely.I cried a little reading The Notebook and A walk to remember which were good but Dear John is just awesome so hope everyone would understand how much I have cried reading it.
With each line i felt like crying,by the end i was frustrated and angry at Nicholas Sparks, why did he had to end the book by breaking John's heart.This book is so unfair but then I guess love was never fair to anyone.
Then my coworker said she loved the preview too and decided to read it, and liked it.
I know most women wonder if the men in romance novels really exist or want them to exist so badly that they live in a false reality or read them because they are bitter and believe that no man exists like that.
But mostly women write romance and they create the men we want.
I've decided to try and keep hope alive and just go with there are very honest honorable men out there who are capable of sensitivity, true love and passion.
And then I feel as if I'm witnessing a miracle, as ever so slowly she raises her face toward the moon.
I watch her drink in the sight, sensing the flood of memories she's unleashed and wanting nothing more than to let her know I'm here.
But instead I stay where I am and stare up at the moon as well.
I am not expecting this to be that good because of the movie that I used to watch first.
I really can't help but think of Savannah Lynn Curtis and John Tyree whenever I'm staring at the full moon.
No es demasiado sensiblera, pero tiene “momentos” que, de vez en cuando, hacen que el corazón reaccione a las palabras.
Eso es lo que tiene la escritura de Sparks, que cuando le sale un producto redondo, consigue emocionarte hasta la médula.
En esta novela lo que destacaría es la relación del protagonista con su padre, por encima de la que tiene con Savannah.
Creo que es la parte que más me ha decantado para ponerle las cuatro estrellas.
Realmente conseguida.Una de las mejores novelas que he leído de este autor.
Y la película tampoco estaba mal.Leído durante el verano de 2015.
Up to the ending the story was good - a little sappy but I like that every now and then.
I particularly liked the story with John and his Dad.**Spoilers**Once Savannah broke up with John and married Tim I knew it wasn't going to end in a good way.
Tim was sick and either he dies so that John can get the girl or John bows out and gets nothing.
I guess that part makes me sad, especially given that Savannah doesn't love Time like she did John.
Which makes me angry at Savannah for marring someone when she loved someone else more.
If The Notebook left a bad aftertaste, Dear John had me dry heaving.
Dear John is told in first person so I felt like I was actually trapped in a room with a bad conversationalist who was insistent on telling me his insipid love story.
276 pages of vapid writing and with an ending that only left me more irritated than the beginning.
When the two main characters (John and Savannah) made their declarations of love after knowing each other only three days I almost lost my lunch.
If you want a good love story to escape in, try Gone With the Wind.
I adore this Guy's writing .Some may say his book is predictable,But even if it is, i enjoy it .In Dear john , Savannah and john love each other .I thought they were gonna end up with each other but fate had other plans with John going to the army .I loved the character of John,he is not perfect which makes him more real,whereas i cannot say the same about Savannah .At times i thought she was selfish .
I found Tim's character very endearing too,(view spoiler)[Even though i was sad for John Tyree , i am happy that Tim ended up with Savannah (hide spoiler)]And like everyone says, "Distance relationship never works" not even in a novel
Qué llorera, por Dios! Debo confesar que al empezar la novela, no entendía las buenas críticas que había leído acerca del libro. Pero, después de llegar al ecuador de su lectura, ya tenía el corazón en un puño. Realmente es una historia maravillosa!!!
Hepi topu iki tane Sparks filmi izlemiş olsam da ilki Sevgili John’dur.Bundan yıllar yıllar önce, film gösterimden kalktıktan kısa bir süre sonra olsa gerek, filmini izlemiştim.
Tabii yaş romantizm, aşk gibi kavramları yeni yeni keşfeden bir aralıkta olduğu için yetişkinlerin arasına kaynak yapmıştım.
Kitabı okurken ise beğenmenin ucunda, çoğunlukla sıkılarak vakit geçirdim.Okurken bana öyle geldi ki Amerikan Savaş filmlerinde olduğu gibi bu kitapta da Amerikan askeri hareketlerini aklama, insanların özellikle yabancıların gözünde bunu kahramanlık ve aşk hikâylerine dönüştürme çabalarından biriydi.Yanlışlar, başka yanlışların bahanesi olmamalı.Bu arada, inatla izlemeyi ertelediğim The Notebook’u en kısa sürede okuyup sonra izleyeceğim.
"La gente más triste que he conocido en mi vida es la que no siente una pasión profunda por algo. La pasión y la satisfacción van cogidas de la mano, y sin ellas, la felicidad sólo es temporal, porque no existe nada que la haga perdurar" (Me quedo con el final de la película, sin duda ♡)
And whilst I didn't really care whether I ever finished Dear John there are a couple books on that shelf I do really want to re-read/finish.
I've read a fair few of Nicholas Sparks books and I always find them rather ploying.
You've read one Sparks book and you've pretty much read them all.
I know Sparks hammers an ideal world into some peoples head with his writing and makes everyone think that love means riding into the sunset together.
Dnf second time around, due to flagrant boredom. I just cannot deal with this author, there's no spark whatsoever (pun intented).
John decides he will enlist in the army as he feels he has nothing to keep him in his home town.
After being in the army for awhile he returns home on leave to spend time with his father.
To pass the hours John decides to gets back into surfing which he has missed.One day whilst out surfing John meets Savannah Lynn Curtis.
The time comes when John must return to the army, but they will keep in contact thru letters and will count the days down to when John will return.
can they survive the distance?"This is life story of John Tyree, american special forces soldier and his distance relationship.
One time on the leave John met Savannah.
The day shook the world John decided to enlist back to serve his country some more years.
Fate brought them together but distance kept them apart.In the end they couldn't survive the distance.
Novel ended up John seeing Savannah from a distance.
No friends, special duty for his country, a beach house, surfing on the sea all day.
So much lonely but real.This novel made me realize about distance relationships as well was military duty seriously.
CONSIGLIO DI DICEMBRESi lo sono un pò in ritardo..ma meglio tardi che mai ^_^Grazie Tizi per avermi fatto leggere questo libro, che mi ha completamente rapito e straziato il cuore. L'ho appena finito e non sono lucida..soprattutto non ci vedo perchè sto ancora piangendo. ç_ç Non ci sono parole per descrivere l'amore che si sente, si avete capito bene si sente, fino a far esplodere il proprio cuore leggendo queste pagine. Semplicemente bellissimo.
