https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30687200-the-stranger-in-the-woods
Not half so strange as his family who never even report him missing or make any attempt whatsoever to find him.
There was a discussion on whether Knight had Asperger's, was autistic or schizoid.
The second story, which was interesting in and of itself, was of the family.
What family doesn't immediately report their 20 year old son gone missing to the police?
What do they say to people who ask after him, friends or family?
Unfortunately Knight's family were so uncommunicative that there was nothing to report, only to surmise.
Now it seems to me that these people have a pathological mental illness.
It would have been rude of him, he felt, to refuse my visit, so he’d accepted it, and then was rude to my face.”He then proceeded to visit him 8 more times, flying back and forth from Montana to Maine and got Knight to tell him pieces of his experience.
That last visit before Knight is released from jail, after Finkel again tries to shove himself into Knight’s life by offering to help him find employment, Knight tells him “Please leave me alone.
I’m not going to miss you at all.” Knight is released, goes back to living at home and attempts to adapt to a world he didn’t want to be a part of.
Seriously, I know some free loaders that just don't want to work and live off someone else.
I think if he could have had the nice part of the community to leave him some food and let him be alone in the woods that would have been a nice thing.
I thought while reading the book that maybe he could go out and live in the woods close to his family where he would have some quiet and his nature.
It was my own type of feel good book with some of the little things Chris said.
(Though, I admit, it's sometimes a bit painful to read them.) There are so many books out there, I am grateful that you've chosen to take a peek at "The Stranger in the Woods."It took me three years of full-time work to write a 191-page book; that is a ridiculously slow pace.
I want to emphasize that this is a true story -- no fake news here!
There are so many elements of this story that seem to defy belief (no fire for 27 years?
never saw a doctor?) but I can assure you that, to the very best of my abilities, and the abilities of professional fact-checkers, this tale is completely true.
Knight's story continued to be equally as fascinating after he was captured as much as why Knight chose a reclusive life in the woods of Maine in the first place.
There are the details about how Christopher Knight survived: the many-many-MANY break-ins ......stealing food, supplies, books, etc.
There is this fascinating 'cliffhanger- of -stories'....that happened once Knight was captured.
Journalist from all over the world we're trying to get hold of Christopher Knight's story.
People wanted to learn from Christopher Knight.
Finkel gave us ( the reader) background information---historically- about other 'hermits' which added a great context to Christopher Knight's story.
*looks around at high ratings on Goodreads* *Decides to still review this stinking ass book*Okay, so when I first starting reading this book I actually liked it. It tells the story of a shy man who just decides to leave civilization one day and head off into the woods. He lived completely by himself and survived by robbing a neighboring camp and cabins. For twenty seven years. TWENTY SEVEN years.I find that part just fascinating. Christopher Knight didn't announce any reason for his departure he
*Decides to still review this stinking ass book*Okay, so when I first starting reading this book I actually liked it.
(I think lilac but I had stopped caring by this point) Is that the same kinda thing as showing up at a reviewer's house?
Both seem kinda over the top to me..I am giving this stupid ass book 1.5 stars because I admit to being creepy enough that I at FIRST wanted details about this poor man's life.
I feel like this author just wanted to make a buck off this poor man and I'm pissed off about it.
But, I will say, that as an extreme introvert, I am no longer concerned about my tendency to avoid social gatherings, because Christopher Knight’s case makes me feel like a social butterfly by comparison.Christopher Knight when ‘off grid’ shortly after graduating from high school and spent the next twenty-seven years of his life living in the woods in rural Maine.
This story is fascinating, due in part, to how Christopher managed to survive those brutal Maine winters out in the woods.
This is certainly an interesting story, and it’s hard to believe all of it is true, but truth, as you know, can be stranger than fiction.
I have never read anything like this, cannot even imagine for a minute this appealing to many, but for this young man it was a total life of freedom.
The author hears about the story and contacts him in jail, surprised when he shows up at the prison and Christopher agrees to see him.
Regardless of how one feels about how the author got this story, one can tell he was much impressed and later very concerned about this now 47 year old Man's future.
Excellent account of somebody's choice to live isolated from society.The irony is that although the “hermit” (Christopher Knight) despised the idea of being part of a community he still was completely dependent on society for food and supplies and resorted to regularly stealing these items in order to survive.
Overall, I loved the book and highly recommend it.EDIT: I want to share one of my favorite quotes from this book...“People earnestly say to me here, 'Mr Knight, we have cellphones now, and you're going to really enjoy them.' That's their enticement for me to rejoin society.
'You're going to love it,' they say.
We're going backwards.” ― Michael Finkel, The Stranger in the Woods: The Extraordinary Story of the Last True Hermit”
This book was so fascinating and engrossing that I had to give it five stars.The Stranger in the Woods is the unbelievable-but-true story of Christopher Knight, who in 1986 decided to go into the Maine woods and live alone in the forest.
It was difficult getting Knight to open up, but eventually he shared stories of his time in the woods, and some reasons why he felt the need to escape society.While reading, I was reminded of another beloved book, Jon Krakauer's Into the Wild.
Developing into a master thief, he survived by stealing from the cabins and camps in the area -- though never from his unwitting host's home.
His ability to survive unmolested for so long at the edge of civilization in such a hostile climate testifies to his amazing abilities and perseverance.Finkel is a capable and captivating writer whose efforts here were hamstrung by Knight's recalcitrance.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, Knight proved a reluctant, taciturn participant in the author's effort to memorialize his amazing story of survival.
That Knight willingly met and corresponded with the writer as much as he did proved amazing.
"Silence, it appears, is not the opposite of sound. It is another world altogether, literally offering a deeper level of thought, a journey to the bedrock of the self."Can you think of a time when you isolated yourself for some quiet time? No communication with the outside world or other beings? I can remember a time in my mid twenties when my routine was as follows: after work on Fridays, I would turn off my phone, head to the grocery store for some weekend staples, pick up my holds from the l
Thereafter, I would shut myself in at home with awesome reading material, my dogs, and some classic movies (usually long epics that would slowly smolder over the weekend).
I craved this quiet time away from people, even on social media, which to this day I find grating.
Work and social interactions just depleted me during the week, and I found these weekends restorative at a very hard time of my life.
It was about this time that I read Into the Wild, and it moved me to my core.
I was sent this book from Goodreads.I really enjoyed this book. More than I thought I would. Really interesting.
Interesting and thought provoking story. While you may go into this thinking the hermit has issues, you will come out of it thinking the author also has issues. I’m glad I read it and would recommend it just for the thought provoking content.
Christopher Knight walked into the woods of Maine and lived in isolation for 27 years.
But Knight had to steal food, batteries, books, and other supplies from a nearby children's camp and from vacation cabins in central Maine.
If you have low levels of the pituitary peptide oxytocin--sometimes called the master chemical of sociability--and high quantities of the hormone vasopressin, which may suppress your need for affection, you tend to require fewer interpersonal relationships." (69)The author, Michael Finkel, includes information from his correspondence and conversations with Knight in jail.
I found the story of Christopher Knight so fascinating that I had my head buried in the book all day.
some philosophers believe that loneliness is the only true feeling  there is."This incredible book, The Stranger in the Woods: The Extraordinary Story of the Last True Hermit written by Michael Finkel, poses some thought-provoking questions...
In 1986, just a couple of years after graduating from high school, Chris Knight left his young life behind and entered the Maine woods where he would live in complete solitude until his arrest nearly three decades later for stealing food form the Pine Tree Camp for disabled children.
Perhaps Chris Knight's choice to live outside of society was so fascinating was because he was engaging in the opposite of what people are socialized to do from birth.
Journalist Michael Finkel interviewed Knight several times while he was awaiting sentencing and the end result is The Stranger in the Woods, as near a full account of Knight’s years in the wilderness as any we’re likely to get.
As well as providing a clear and compelling picture of Knight’s zen-like existence over his hermit years, Finkel is careful to include the perspectives of Knight’s “victims” (I use quotation marks as his crimes were so benign; stealing Twinkies, batteries, jeans, etc.) as well as those who don’t believe he lived in the woods for so long as the Maine winters are too brutal.
I'm not sure about that.A number of philosophical views were also offered as well as quotes from many different books about hermits and recluses throughout history.
(Christopher Knight was incarcerated for a time, due to his repeated thefts of food, books and other items.) I'm not sure if I view this as honorable or as harassment.
I loved the parts that were direct quotes from Mr. Knight, because he had such a clear view of how he saw things/nature/people.
It's just that I feel Knight's wishes were disrespected and I hate the thought of that; and I hate that I took part in it by listening to this book.
Knight walked into the woods in Maine one day as a 20 year old, and didn’t leave until he was caught stealing food from a camp site, 27 years later.
Not all families are the same of course, but this is one aspect of the story I found truly baffling - The lack of pursuing the result, to find out either way.As I read the book, I felt Finkel, the author, became increasingly aggressive or at least too persistent in his pursuit of Knight.
“...sometime in the 1990s, he encountered a hiker walking in the woods. “What did you say?” asks Vance. “I said, 'Hi,'” Knight replies. Other than that single syllable, he insists, he had not spoken with or touched another human being, until this evening, for twenty-seven years.”   Dang, that's some solitude right there. After no identifiable antecedent, Christopher Knight walked into the woods of Maine at the age of twenty years old and never looked back. In an effort to support his lifestyle
Journalist: Michael Finkel built enough rapport with Knight to complete interviews with him which resulted in a GQ article and then this book.
In The Stranger in the Woods: The Extraordinary Story of the Last True Hermit, Mr. Finkel discusses Knight's upbringing, his exit from civilization, his lifestyle of "aloneness", the town's response to having a hermit in their backyard, the true crime element, and my personal favorite: the act of solitude itself with the reasons why people from past to present in varying cultures voluntarily engage in it.
What I didn’t know before reading the book is that Chris actually lived very close to civilization, almost unbeknownst "neighbors" surrounding a small lake in Central Maine.
If he had not broken into their cabins for necessities to live, they would not have guessed another lived just a stone’s throw from their summer homes.After getting to know Chris, I didn’t want to use the word thief to describe him, but he would not argue the term.
Finally, I see the kinship Michael had come to feel for Chris because it’s expressed in the way the story is written.
Some philosophers believe that loneliness is the only true feeling there is." Interesting book.
While I don't think Christopher Knight is insane I do feel he has some sort of personality disorder.
For someone to leave society for 27 years and have no contact with people is a bit odd.
I am also at odds about him stealing in order to survive.
Amazing to me that he survived the winters.
I hate camping so the thought of camping for 27 years (especially winter camping) sounds like a horrible existence but if that's what makes him happy he should be allowed to do so (without the thieving).
I started this book and finished within 24 hours. It's absolutely fascinating. I do not think that it was acceptable to steal from others but it's pretty amazing that this guy stayed off the grid for 27 years. This book was so interesting. It has taken alot of self-control not to tell every detail to my family members. If you need a book to discuss in social settings where the people are not book nerds(like me), grab this one. Totally recommend to anyone.
3.5 starsThis is the story of Christopher Thomas Knight, also known as 'The North Pond Hermit', who lived in the Maine woods, without human interaction, for 27 years - from 1986 until 2013.
Knight never took expensive items, but stole 'necessities' like: food, candy, clothing, tents, sleeping bags, mattresses, blankets, propane tanks, flashlights, batteries, toiletries, watches, books, Playboy magazines, radios, electronic games, bug spray, small amounts of cash (in case he ever needed to go to a store), and so on.
Brrrrr!The author of this book - journalist Michael Finkel - wrote to Knight in jail, while the hermit was awaiting trial for more than 1000 robberies.
4+★The words Extraordinary Story in the subtitle were certainly applicable with this one.A young man drives as far as his car will take him, then abandons it, walking into the woods where he will live hidden for 27 years.
In our age of excessive connectivity and attempts to explain the phenomenon of Knight’s choices, Finkel weaves many interesting facts into the story about the nature of, and desire for, complete solitude which most humans cannot tolerate for even brief periods of time.
He would have preferred to die in the woods than be found, but found out he finally was.Highly recommend this one of a kind story.
(Read the book for full explanations.) Finkel talks about the “emancipation” of being a hermit, of becoming “no one and everyone (144),” which is certainly something I know and love—as have many other hermit writers and artists.But early on in his twenty-seven years of solitude, Chris Knight realizes “something almost every hermit in history has discovered: you can’t actually live by yourself all the time.
The chapters 20-22 were 6 star, and some of the rest, especially in the first half was heavily padded with historical reference to past hermits, celebs, and literary figures of solitude.
I doubt I would have tread in the path of this author to push him as far as he did.If you have ever been robbed, had your home sacked (usually it IS more than once), or had your most private spaces violated or assaulted- you will have a much harder time rationalizing his modus operandi to perform this desired lifestyle for 27 years.
Maybe for a week or two.
And maybe with a spouse or friend.
Christopher Knight did just that - except he lived totally alone for 27 years in the woods in Maine, with extreme weather and no human contact except for one "hi" when he accidentally came across a hiker.The word hermit conjures up a vision of an ascetic who goes off to live a solitary life for spiritual enlightenment.
The author conducted many interviews and much of the book is presented in Knight's own words.
The story is rounded out with the history of hermits and interviews with mental health experts.
Such a fascinating book, I absolutely tore through it, despite feeling it was a flawed depiction. The author over-romanticises his subject, portraying him as a philosopher-monk who "lived for a living" (um, nope - he stole for his living) and who "observed modern life and recoiled from its banality" when in fact he relied entirely on modern conveniences to survive. Among his favourite things: Everybody Loves Raymond and boxed mac & cheese. Still, I do highly recommend this incredible story of isolation.
Christopher Knight went on a road trip from Maine to Florida and back again when he decided in wanted to be alone in the woods.
He literally pulled over and left his car and walked into the woods, not to emerge again for 27 years.Michael Finkel writes Christopher's story after meeting with him multiple times while imprisoned.
I greatly appreciate this book and Christopher's story.
I'm glad that he shared enough with Michael so that we could all read and enjoy a particularly special hermit and his relationship with North Pond and its inhabitants.
