https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161894-after-dark-my-sweet
A cocktail of paranoid, neurotic, dark, and almost completely unredeemable characters + a diabetic boy + Uncle Bud = a classic Jim Thompson novel. Yup, story checks out. Whenever I think humanity is doing a pretty good job, I just dip a toe into Jim Thompson's world(s) and remember that I spend most my time in the sunshine, but after dark it is a whole different story.
Kid Collins is a former boxer fresh out of the mental institution when he runs into alcoholic Fay Anderson and Uncle Bud, a two bit con man.
Fay and Bud conspire to kidnap a wealthy couple's son and pin it on Collins.
Once again, Thompson's use of the unreliable narrator set me on edge.
I have a feeling Thompson was even crazier than his biography indicates.
His writing is so far beyond that of his contemporaries it's scary.While it wasn't the best crime story I've ever read, it's still a powerful read.
Crime fans should pick it up.
“No good could possibly come out of this now.”—ThompsonThis is my third gritty noir Thompson novel, all of them classics: The Killer Inside Me, a creepy handsome “nice guy” serial killer story; The Grifters, a violent mother and son tale, and now this, the story of crazy ex-boxer Kid Collins, who just wants to live in a world where people are nice and polite to him.All three use the mid-twentieth century fascination with psychopaths, or psychology in general:“Usually, during the past fifteen-odd years, I'd hated to see the morning come.
That is to say: The American Master of…Bill Collins is a good-looking ex-boxer who knows he has a problem with his temper.
Soon he’s involved in a poorly planned kidnapping plot with Kay and the weirdly unbelievable Uncle Bud. But weirdly unbelievable goes with the Thompson territory.
In fact, as I recall, it is the Thompson territory.I read most of Thompson’s 1950’s novels twenty-five years ago during their first round of rediscovery, or at least the first I was aware of.
The fact that one of those will be the first person narrator isn’t a problem for Thompson
I think it's mostly the fault of the audiobook narrator (see below), but there was something about the whole thing that left me feeling meh.
The twist at the end surprised me in that I didn't think it'd be something that obvious, so that was annoying.I listened to some other audio samples from Hachette Books for other audio productions of Thompson's books and what's up with them all sounding like stilted, hammy amateurs?
I guess I'll have to actually read Thompson if I don't want to keep getting a residual bad taste in my mouth about him that isn't entirely his fault.Mid-read thoughts:Audiobook read by Kevin T.
My favorite of all of Jim Thompson's books. Brain-damaged ex-boxer Kid Collins gets mixed up with shifty characters who involve him in a disastrous kidnapping plot. One of the finest first person noir novels ever written, in my opinion.
Good, old fashioned, noir; as bleak as all get out until the bitter end. A great group of not particularly lovable losers attempt an ill fated kidnaping. Backbiting, paranoia and double crosses abound. It's everything you want and expect from Thompson in one slim volume...and yet...This is a good book, don't get me wrong. It's just not a *great* book. It is the weakest of the Thompson novels I have read thus far, although that isn't saying much considering that the other Thompson's I have read were utterly fantastic. Definitely worth reading but not his best.
Every Jim Thompson fan has their favorite. This one is mine. Bill (Kid) Collins has already had it bad and just wants to get along. Like he tells you in the beginning, he just wants to be where people are nice and polite. Then he has to go and get tangled up with Fay and Uncle Bud. The power in this one is Collie's voice. Read the first chapter and you'll see what I mean.
I love Thompson, but the last couple I read (The Killer Inside Me, Savage Night), I liked but didn't love. This I did love. Classic noir, more like The Grifters, which is the best.
emanating from the grain, separated from Europe not only by the Atlantic but by the feedlot plains and cannibal mountains, settling in primarily on the west coast like the santa ana's and the knife edged psychosis that Dashiell Hammet knew rode their currents.Thompson, the dimestore Dostoyevsky, was prolific: A Swell Looking Babe, A Hell of a Woman, Pop. 1280, The Getaway, The Grifters, The Killer Inside Me, etc.
So, file with Dashiell Hammet, Raymond Chandler, Cornell Woolrich, Charles Willeford ...
But Thompson may be the most pulp of the pulp; never one to say it straight when a quip will do.
Since I really like the hard boiled, noir and pulps genre, I had heard of Jim Thompson a few years back.
Since I don't ever find his novels at used book stores, etc.
I bought this, with a Woolrich book on ebay.
At just 130 pages long, there are many moments that I felt like a rubber band, stretched to its limit, you know it's close to breaking , just waiting for it to snap.
As the 'ol noir/pulps go, Thompsons' sparse writing, at times is like waiting for the water to come to a boil, and if you let it go....it will boil over.
"I was a mental case. I was an escapee from an insane asylum, a pyscho with a gun, and ex-pug who could do plenty without a gun if he took a notion." And that is the narrator of this short novel about three loonies trying to pull-off a Lindberg-baby style kidnapping. Despite the craziness, the suspicions, the - warranted - paranoia, rattling through Kid Collins head, he tries to find a path toward redemption, and that it is believable even though the narrator is unreliable is quite a tribute to Thompson's narrative power.
If you have never read Thompson, this wouldn't be the book to start with. (That being said, it is much, much better than the new over-hyped thrillers such as "Girl on a Train"--But then again, the back of a cereal box is better than that atrocity.)There's nothing wrong with this book; it just isn't one of his strongest. I would be much better to start with something like "The Killer Inside Me." Now THAT'S a strong book!
Sad stuff about punch drunk ex-boxer, ex-loony bin inmate Kid "Collie" Collins, who's played by oily roundheels Fay and her accomplice Uncle Bud in a scheme to kidnap a rich kid who has a serious diabetic condition. Although the lines are so obviously drawn between good and evil to the point of absurdity, your heart strings will get tugged by the sadness of the story.
Deft, brutal, and masterfully done. Best pulp in the market.
I might actually review this, provided that work this week doesn't completely suck the life out of me...
Although his books are all in a similar vein, he makes them different enough that it's fascinating to see the main character descend into madness.After having read a few Jim Thompson books, I'm starting to have a lot of thoughts about the author.
Maybe I'm totally off base by thinking that he's representing a part of himself in each of his main characters, but he most definitely has some inner demons that he put to good use on the page.
I don't want to be too specific because I think a lot of the fun in reading Thompson is digging into the character and figuring out all the subtle things he does.
The three-dimensional characterization of the narrator and Thompson's humane treatment of inhumane people really got to me.
Un intreccio noir carico di angoscia e di paranoia, una storia che cattura, dei personaggi tra i più derelitti che si possano immaginare.
Gli istinti brutali, la dittatura feroce di un destino insormontabile, i rapporti umani dominati dai cliché e dall'incomprensione reciproca, l’ossessione del denaro come unica sorgente di felicità: tutto questo è mediato e sublimato da una dolorosa tenerezza nella descrizione del male di vivere, da un’accusa sempre appassionata di quel modello imperfetto di esistenza comune che si definisce società umana."Un bel libro , davvero, per gli amanti del noir.
This book was amazing – it's very much a product of its era, Though, with the attitudes of society towards the mentally ill very prevalent.
The main character is a drifter who has been in and out of mental hospitals for many years, and who lives an aimless life.
The ending is very powerful and disturbing, and I find it lingering with me for a long time after reading.
This is the first book I've read by Jim Thompson, who has been highly recommended to me.
One of the things I liked especially was not knowing, in the end, whether or not the main character's perceptions were really valiD.
Jim Thompson is a sort of street psychologist who uses noir as an exploration of exactly how people go about wrecking themselves and each other.
His real trick here is being able to coil up a nice, twisty plotline without its feeling overly contrived.
There's a sort of irresistible downward pull to his scenarios that suggest -- without their being predictable -- that the way it goes really is the only way it could go.
As opposed to the too-often problems of such a story that leave the reader feeling annoyed that his/her emotions are being blatantly manipulated for impact.
And Thompson's finales do not disappoint.
Published in 1955 when Thompson was hitting his stride. Small-town noir about a kidnapping that goes awry and narrated by mental patient/boxer Kid Collins. The unpolished prose makes the edgy voice work well. Worth a second read some day, a compliment to the book.
Amazing story and one of few books I enjoy seeing as a movie. Jason Patrick was Kid Collins in my mind before I ever sat in the Tara theater in Atlanta to watch this adaption. I stayed to watch it again.
I just reread AFTER DARK, MY SWEET by Jim Thompson for the first time in more than 20 years ... and it holds up even better the second time around. The writing is spare but evocative and the suspense is masterful. I have always adored this novel, but today more than ever.
Kid Collins is a dangerously beautiful creation One Of tohmpsons finest Reviewing this book im avoiding like one of the kids mitts Tis the story so intricate & tight & tragic ... Yeah could be seen as unrequited love I'll end it there jus read it Dmtiz
This is another one of Thompson's unreliable narrators. this time somebody who may or not be mentally ill. I may just be used to all his tricks but this one came off weak. The narrator was really wobbly and the ending a disappointment. Still, it was fairly solid for most of the going.
That feeling one has walking down an empty street at night where all the shops are locked up and the only thing you can hear is a distant highway.
Did you know Mulholland has published twenty six of these Jim Thompson books ?
Grim, grimy, gritty and great.
Another great story with unforgettably dark characters. I loved the struggle Collie put up against the forces of evil.....he was memorable and the ending was a twisted redemption. Excellent!
