https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174622.Light_Years
She was only vaguely devoted to it.”•	 “The age one longs to be, the age of accomplishments, of acceptance, the age we never achieve.”•	 “Isn’t it better to be someone who follows her true life and is happy and generous than an embittered woman who is loyal?”•	 “She formed her life day by day, taking as its materials the emptiness and panic as well as the rushes.”Marriage - quotes•	 “They lay in the dark like two victims.
I found it lyrical as well as sad, beautifully written, not the heroic in the world, the challenged macho man common to many other Salter works (Solo Faces, The Hunters come to mind) P 24 There are really two kinds of life…the one people believe you are living, and there is the other.
P 45He wants his children to have an old life and a new life, a life that is indivisible from all lives past, that grows from them, exceeds them, and another that is original, pure, free, that is beyond the prejudice which protects us, the habit that gives us shape.
That other, that sumptuous love which made one drunk, which one longed for, envied, believed in, that was not life.
Light Years is a novel about a marriage and about home – home only sometimes the place where the heart is.
Salter focuses on a couple who usually have a supporting role in other novels.
Salter puts at the heart of his novel characters who are already fatally infected by the malaise.
Salter performs a kind of autopsy on Viri and Nedra’s marriage.
I've got a hunch Salter wasn't too keen on the women's liberation movement, picking up steam when he wrote this novel, and was a bit blind to Viri's woeful inadequacies as a husband.
He was more interested in focusing on Nedra's restlessness but not very understanding of it.
Pulitzer Prize-winner Richard Ford has been quoted as saying..."It is an article of faith among readers of fiction that James Salter writes American sentences better than anybody writing today".
....For PEOPLE WHOM ARE NOT FAMILIAR with James Salter: ( like I wasn't)..., These are my thoughts: 1.
....Viri and Nedra live outside Manhattan, ( up the Hudson, out of the city), to raised their two daughters Franca and Danny.
So....my 'real' thoughts about this novel:I liked most of it...but not in a OH MY GOD sort of way.
This was a thought-provoking novel with dozens and dozens beautiful sentences!
A very beautifully written portrait of an adulterous marriage, adulterous on both sides.
It's a novel essentially made up of vignettes, snapshots, defining moments.
There's little dramatic tension but it's a tremendously wise and philosophical and poetical novel.
What I would say is that Salter is more convincing writing from the male perspective than the female.
His heroine, Nedra, seemed a little idealised.
As if we only see her through the besotted eyes of her husband.
Salter appears more interested in effect than motive.
I suppose you could describe it as a novel of atmospheres rather than straightforward dramatic cause and effect.
This book goes straight to the heart and doesn't let up with so many deeply moving, poignant and tender moments from seeing loved ones pass away to the transformation of their daughters from girls to young women to when Danny makes love for the first time there is nothing sexy or erotic about it it's just so honest and pure also when Nedra and viri think they have found love again it's like they don't know what to do with it, of the two I felt more for Viri as he seemed so lost and distant during a trip to Italy on his own and is a shadow of the confident man he used to be, as it spans many years and time moves quite rapidly you hardly even seem to notice as everything just flows beautifully from one moment to the next like a stream to a river and river to sea and by the end I felt in the realms of greatness.
A heart rendering classic.
A novel to read quickly, in a few long gulps.
Reopening it each time, I needed at least 20 pages to recover the book’s subtle groove.
I admire Salter for having the balls to write a novel requiring such immersion.
Without patience, and an ear for the noise of its time, one might mistake Light Years for dated chi-chi, back number “lifestyle porn,” a precious exercise.
A commenter on a clip of Salter's Charlie Rose interview said of Light Years that he’d never read a novel that so earned its final image.
It felt fragmented but I think that was just me, falling asleep too fast.It can seem a bit piece-meal in the way it switches between narrators without warning or clear gap, and sometimes I would need to backtrack to figure out which characters were the focus.
And not all the people who start out seeming like major characters end up that way, which was a bit confusing.
I tend to read too quickly, to miss things, and every time I reset, I felt like I grew in understanding of the situation and people.
or is it less chilling, if people felt the same way then?

Hmm. I admired this more than I liked it.
It's one of the most generic stories ever told, really, about the dissolution of the privileged lives of family and friends.
The characters live on the page, nevertheless, but I didn't love them at all.
Non-white characters are vivacious lovers or stereotyped muggers.
I realize I like his first-person more than his third-person narration.
Had the same reaction with stories in "Last Night" -- his third-person stories felt false to me, over-mannered, but when he revs up and runs with a human voice, it all feels lived and alive.
In it, Salter shows that he is developing a craftsmanship of real note.
One has the feel that one is reading a work of such conscious art that the deeper elements ultimately fail fully to emerge.
Despite my rating, it is thus something short of a five-star book.Light Years, by contrast, is a masterpiece.
Here, the craftsmanship is entirely subsumed to the story, to such rich and remarkable characters, and to a poignancy of feeling that is quite remarkable.
I think one has to have a sense of Salter to fully appreciate this book, and would recommend anyone interested reading all three, and in sequence.
So I guess I'm suggesting that if you don't mind Woolf's characters, maybe try to suspend judgment on Salter's and give them a shot?Light Years was one of those books with language that bleeds off the page and seeps into your entire life so that when you put it down and go off to do things it's as if you're living inside its world.
While I felt the last fifty pages weren't nearly as good as everything that had come before -- they felt rough by comparison, not entirely edited, and dead in a way that the rest of the book lived -- it's still one of the best books I've read in a long time.
You read this book for the lines.
You read it to think about your own life now that your children are grown.
I think it speaks more to an older person than one that is still busy in the bustle of life.
I would not make some of the choices these characters made, but that never prevented me from relating to the book.
It is about satisfying your own individual needs and how you balance those with others' needs.
This is one of those narrations where you never think about the fact that there is a person reading the lines.
I haven’t thought of this family in years, but this book - this luminously beautiful and tragic book - reminded me of the way I used to think of them and others like them.
In his introduction to this American novel, published in 1974, author Richard Ford describes the novel as ”an anatomy of an American family with everything going for it, but whose occupants endure loss almost helplessly - one might say naturally.”The novel covers approximately 20 years in the lives of Nedra and her husband Viri (Vladimir) and their children Franca and Danny.
Life is meals,” says the omniscient narrator, and I can think of few novels which describe weather, the seasons and meals in a more beautiful and sensual way.
There was hardly anything about the marriage anyway, and frankly, I wouldn't have even suspected these characters were married to each other if Salter hadn't actually said so.
I can care about rich white guys' problems if the novel is at least interesting, if it makes me want to read more.
But the main characters here are all shallow, clueless, selfish people who blame everyone but themselves for their unhappiness.I honestly didn't hate the book that much, so I don't know where all this is coming from.
This book felt like a punch to the gut.
When I finished it, I felt as though I'd lost people who had very quickly become an important part of my life.
This is a personal quirk of mine, but I have very rarely really liked characters, or even people I meet, that are genuinely likable.
I have only read it once, and it was years ago, but I still feel like recommending this to anyone I didn't trust entirely would be like accidentally spilling my heart to them.
che la dissoluzione della loro esistenza sia già iniziata lo sai da subito, da quando a scandirla sono ancora le cene con amici protratte fino a notte, le bottiglie di vino francese, le finestre tutte accese nella casa sul fiume, radiosa come la sua padrona.
come se per caso, non visti, ci si trovasse realmente nella stanza in cui sta prendendo forma il loro amore di colpi e gemiti, che li lascia esausti e con lo sguardo appannato.ma la capacità descrittiva di salter, e i suoi zoom sui dettagli, sono qualcosa di spettacolare anche quando si innervano nel disfacimento progressivo della perfetta felicità del titolo.
Amongst the despair of a tumbling marriage, there are the great joys of children, the family dog, and nature.
A lesser writer wouldn't have considered that in real life it's agonizing and yet real to have some awful sound obstructing the news you need to hear.
As they fall apart and look for lovers, they realize the temporary exchange of their new lives.
They are becoming aware that happiness isn't coming to them.
I was thrilled by the set-up for Franca, one of their daughters, but felt her character dropped off.
In the bottom of her cup lay the warm, rich silt." This book isn't for everyone.
Maybe, but I'd challenge you to show me a more beautiful or affecting book concerning the lives and times of the disaffected middle class (and I'm quite aware of the breadth of works fitting this rather uninspiring, and in Salter's case, misleading, description).
Not everyone will agree with this comparison, but I see overlaps between the way Salter writes and the way Terrence Malick directs films -- the awe inspiring beauty, the odd, ellipitical rhythm, the concern with the internal life in the context of extreme external settings.
This book will exhaust you and it will hurt you and it will make your heart swell (sometimes all at once).
Light Years by James Salter is the portrait of a marriage that hides behind long dinners, a vibrant social life, brilliant friends, lovely children, and idle days in the country...
I kept reaching out only to have them slip out of my grasp.
That these characters were so consumed by the need for something.
That kept them chasing after love and meaning.
That kept them elusive.
That ultimately consumed one and wrecked the other with the grief of failure.
I'm sad I didn't love this book more, but maybe it wasn't the right time for me to read this.
This book is so beautifully written, so evocative -- not for everyone, I'm sure.
Moments like this: the father tells his little girls that he found their missing pony, Urusla, in the lake.
He tells the girls that Urusla was swimming.
The pony was looking for onions that grow along the bottom of the lake, she was stirring up the onions with her hooves.
And the girls, who are squatting outside the bathroom door while he's inside, taking his bath, whisper together.
They don't know whether to believe him.
He tells stories.
But finally they decide, they will believe him, they do.
Not my I found puzzlement as, after trudging through a needlessly florid, atmospheric chapter crammed with oddly hyper-selfconscious poetic language, I read the back flap description and wondered why I had picked this up in the first place: I take a lot of books out of the library for many reasons that I often forget.
I don't give a shit because...The narrative was bad enough -- dotted here and there with a self-conscious I, an I that is obviously and intentionally unrelated to any of the characters this I describes or the events this I observes.
And at times there is lyrical nuance perfected for a moment, a view, a interchange.
But it predominantly seems all a product of random happenstance and increasing disenchantment as time unfolds.
Sometimes he looks like boredom, financial failure, disinterest.
And other times he looks like sickness, or death.
But there is something about the short sentence style that wanders so much in core subject matter that makes it stilted to me.Love exists with these people, but it is more tied to needs and random momentary urging or silly time wants seated in primary self-involvement.
Nedra saw marriage as a prison, “decorated like a corpse, but it’s already rotten.” Salter summed up the Berland’s hopeless domesticity this way: “They lay in the dark like two victims.
Yet, Salter’s mastery of language is so exquisitely refine that one can find pure pleasure just luxuriating in it.The other reason to read Salter is the intimate and vivid caricatures of his characters.
the confidence he carried within him like a tumor..." Not many words were needed to capture Robert’s alienating self-esteem and corrosive self-confidence.“Light Years” is my first Salter novel and I look forward to reading more of his writing.
I could actually read as though every page wasn’t a test of my intelligence, of my due appreciation of the art and craft of writing.* * *Notes, dated January 10: I don’t know who put this on my radar, but it’s the kind of book I swore by when I was seventeen.
Let’s try this again, shall we?Notes, dated January 12: I’m about seventy pages in at the moment; already Light Years feels like a bitter reminder of the literary preoccupations I had in college: When I was much younger and, thus, had more promise—when I could write what I wanted to write, and I did it well, I believed so hard that I did it well.
***(*)Weer zo'n verhaal dat me meer in het echte leven greep dan in het boek zelf.
Nu ja, wat het echte leven is stelt het verhaal net in vraag.
Niet dat het verhaal het mijne zo sterk raakt, het is eerder het gevoel, die voortdurende lichtinval, die me deed afdwalen naar wat er zich buiten het boek afspeelt.
Misschien omdat je hun hunker herkent, de spijt, het falen, de drang naar lichtheid, en licht.
Of omdat je in hun daden en dromen de hoop terugvindt die je zelf zo hard koestert dat je niet langer weet of ze goed of slecht is.
Painful...
Also, I couldn't shake the feeling that this is the sort of book that readers will accept from a male author and very rarely from a woman.
Female authors who write this sort of careful domestic fiction are rarely elevated to the level that Salter is (Munro might be the exception but she doesn't really write novels.) I'd love to be proven wrong on that but it soured some of the experience for me.
It might be that Salter's books are the kind that require some real life experience to appreciate and I'm just not quite there yet.
While I was reading it a friend of mine asked me what this book is about.
It is about life.
Little things that make the memories.
How we fail to keep things that matter in our grasps and how we always seem to question "Is this it?
Is this the best life has for me?" no matter how happy we might be.
It is a sad and beautiful book and will stay with you for a long time.
Reading it is more like an experience or voyage rather than going through a novel with a fixed narrative.
I re-read this every few years and get more from it with each reading. It really doesn't get much better than this. 'There are things I love about marriage. I love the familiarity of it. It's like a tattoo. You wanted it at the time, you have it, it's implanted in your skin, you can't get rid of it. You're hardly even aware of it any more.'
