https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5899779-pride-and-prejudice-and-zombies
We now present our closing arguments in support of the awesomeness of this book: -The story appears exactly as it does in the original, but with infinitely more general badassery.
Perhaps by and by I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones.''On the contrary, I find that balls are much more enjoyable when they cease to remain private.'"-Lady Catherine de Bourgh is a famous zombie killer, and has a personal army of ninjas.
On one such occasion, Elizabeth was solicited to spar with several of her ladyship's ninjas for the amusement of the party.The demonstration took place in Lady Catherine's grand dojo, which she had paid to have carried from Kyoto, brick by brick, on the backs of peasants.
(Actually, you'll get everything you need, because Chapter 3 will include a ball and a zombie battle.)It really is a clever idea -- maintaining the actual text of Pride and Prejudice and simply inserting another storyline...
"Why, my dear, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune; that he escaped London in a chaise and four just as the strange plague broke through the Manchester line.” "What is his name?" "Bingley.
I think he does a great job of combining genres with the results feeling creative, unique, and often hilarious and not feeling contrived or stupid.Also, the book had some nice, gruesome illustrations throughout:I am very much looking forward to checking out the movie!If you enjoy some fun creativity and do not mind Austin being blasphemed or Zombies being slandered – I behoove you to partake of this novel, posthaste!
Really wrong.To start with, it wasn't funny.
It tried to be funny, but it wasn't.
I don't even think I can describe how...how not funny it was!
No. And that's how awesome it was in the book, too.I will say, Charlotte Lucas becoming infected with the zombie disease was sort of funny at times.
If she hadn't been killed off it might have helped the story.
There were several things like that, where the characters in the story acted totally unlike themselves.
The one who had good sense and didn't embarrass Elizabeth?
It didn't make any sense, and it was just wierd.
Not funny.
Not funny.
Taking my cue from the emotional ratings of the goodreads star system (and I can only muster two stars for this book), I offer you a fully gut reaction to Pride and Prejudice and Zombies.
The book really should have been called Pride and Prejudice and Ninjas with Zombies to allow dumb ass Ultraviolence.
In fact, there is nothing of the Regency girl left in Grahame-Smith’s version.
It was still the best part of the book, and there was plenty of it there to make reading Pride and Prejudice and Zombies tolerable.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ When I saw the theme of the winter library challenge was “Classics Re-Mixed” I knew Pride and Prejudice and Zombies was going to be one of the five books I would read – or in this case re-read. I’m not a “re-reader” by nature, but P&P is one of my all-time faves that I own as a leather bound collection, a $7.00 B&N cheapy collection, a hardback and one I actually allow myself to read. Adding in the Zs to this timeless classic
To briefly sum it up here's a snippet from the publisher’s blurb: P&P is about the “splendidly civilized sparring between the proud Mr. Darcy and the prejudiced Elizabeth Bennet as they play out their spirited courtship in a series of eighteenth-century drawing-room intrigues.” Seth Grahame-Smith’s version pays homage to the original – maintaining the cast of characters, storyline, the style of writing, etc.
ORIGINAL "REVIEW":I don't always re-read books (well actually I hardly ever do), but when I do I make sure to kick it old school, first generation Nook style because I'm too cheap to buy another copy and my library waiting list is too long .
This is the best idea ever!"And now that I've read it?Well, actually, I still think it's pretty darn good idea.
It was weird reading it though, because the "zombie mayhem" fit so well into the story that I kept catching myself stopping after every line trying to remember how the original version went.
;) And as a not-Darcy fan, I found him much improved by possessing a sword and musket...I actually sorta kinda maybe found myself liking the gloomy moody uptight no-sense-of-humor not-fun guy.
The novel was adapted into a 2016 film starring Lily James and Sam Riley.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و چهارم ماه نوامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: غرور و تعصب و زامبیها - کتاب اول؛ نوشته: جین آستین؛ سث گراهام اسمیت؛ مترجم: بهنام حاجی زاده؛ ویراستار: نیما کهندانی؛ تهران، نشر بهداد، 1394؛ در دو جلد، شابک دوره: 9786009684710؛ شابک جلد 1: 9786009684703؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 م -- جین آستین نقیضه و تقلید -- الیزابت بنت شخصیت داستانی -- فیتز ویلیام دارسی شخصیت داستانی اینگونه آثار را «مش‌ آپ» می‌گویند؛ آثاری که از آثار ادبی پیشین سود برده، و آن را با عناصر ژانری دیگر، برای مثال وحشت، تلفیق و اثری دیگر می‌آفرینند.
And adding that he is hot, kind of puts all of the above into the shadows.Coming back to reality, after reading Pride and Prejudice, I’ve seen so many movies and mini series adaptations, so many re-interpretations that just show you the same thing, same action, same characters and same conclusion.
The visual of seeing Mr. Darcy fighting zombies is quite delicious if you ask me, and after all the details provided in the book, he was very good at it.I liked that in spite this mission of saving the world from brain eating zombies, the characters remained the same as I’ve read about them in the first adaptation.
I Can't Wait to see the Movie!!!Time for a quick re-read!!!Oh what a humorous re-telling of one of my most favorite love stories.
Elizabeth Bennet and her sisters are well known for their training in the fine art of zombie killing.
Lady Catherine shows no respect to Elizabeth because she was never tutored by a Japanese samurai, but received her training from a Chinese Master.
The Zombies during this time love brains.
This book is a perfect retelling of Pride and Prejudice with the addition of zombies, samurai swords, beheadings, and Braaaaains!!!!This book is loaded with humor and there are even pictures.
This is a mash-up, meaning that Graham-Smith used the actual text of Jane Austin’s novel (she is listed as a co-author) and inserted his zombie story along the original storyline.
Someone may have a great concept, but setting that down on paper is too difficult, or that someone can create some good scenes or segments, but stringing them together results in a too thin or too silly creation.
Graham-Smith has deftly solved this problem by using as his foundation one of English languages greatest novels.
I think A Nightmare in Calaveras County and Little Women Slayers would be two good titles also.
In this book, she's a super duper special snowflake.
She’s the best martial artist, best with a sword, she kills tons of zombies and beats all the ninjas.
Also, the book very specifically points out that she trained with the super duper awesome monks of shaolin, because her father didn't trust Japanese martial arts or artists or something.
I think this was the moment when I decided this was definitely going to be a one-star book, because there's no recovering from this kind of crap.
Also the book tried to amp up the gross factor with constant allusions to puking, gore, more puking, decomposing zombies, soiled linens and feces in general, and even more puking.
this book is a beautiful fantasy, as if someone reached into my head, pulled out two of my dearest loves, and put them together in such a brilliantly captivating fashion as to make me giggle aloud quite inappropriately in public places where i happen to find myself reading. any lover of jane austen or of zombies needs to get their hands on a copy of this. and the illustrations? priceless.
Simply atrocious.
A true dismemberment of the grand classic; a dissection that adds in extra flavor where absolutely none was needed.
I give this a three star rating because the showdown between Lady Catherine and Lizzy is something that an outrageous, if not stoned, mind can very well concoct, & the fact that Collins and wife are literally left for dead is fantastic (just like in the novel---there's no use for them in the third act so you can predict what happens).
This is all fantasy fulfillment, emphasis on "fantasy.'There is no connection between the love story, the ups and downs of the Bennett sisters, and the living dead.
"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of some sweet weaponry to defeat the hoards of zombie flesh eating natives"BRRRAAAAIIIINNNS!
I expected the prospect of a fatal zombie attack in the Victorian Era (which, truth be told, made that attack even better because of the darkness that already comes with that period of time), but instead I got a loose copy of P&P with underdeveloped zombie attacks, lots of plot holes and incredibly annoying romance drama (even worse than the one in the original book).Suffice to say, I hated it.
Now I know better than to try ridiculously titled retellings of famous books.
Grahame-Smith had this mentality where he didn't actually change the storyline; he just inserted zombies here and there in the hopes of making it different.
I don't know Pride and Prejudice off by heart, but I found it pretty easy to tell the difference between the added bits and the original bits.
If the narrative had been changed more, they would have been a lot freer.All in all, I'm still reading on, hoping that the reason Elizabeth goes to Pemberley is to find and kill the source of the zombies (a worthy goal), rather than just going on tour with Aunt and Uncle Gardiner (nice, but, of course, predictable).
I needed to get my kicks of spleens and intestines after all those delicate tea talks, and a zombie-invested retelling of Pride & Prejudice sounded like a great idea back then.
I wanted the zombies to have the spotlight here, I wanted the characters to run them down, find a cure and thus save the next centuries of human kind from a zombie plague.None of that happened here.The zombies are nothing more but 'props' meant to spice up the whole ordeal that is Pride & Prejudice.
It's just copy pasting the entire Pride & Prejudice word-by-word, and cram in zombies and ninjas randomly in between.
I was under the impression that this would by and large be Pride and Prejudice intact with the simple insertion of zombies in some places.
Rather, it is very nearly an entire rewrite of the original, and not an improvement upon it.
Grahame-Smith takes it upon himself to explain and over explain the characters and their emotions and actions, rather than letting Austen's original writing stand for itself, as it has done quite successfully previously.
Occasionally offensive not because I am an Austen purist, but because I'm not an idiot, the book barely escapes being so awful as to not receive even one star.
Mr. Bingley observed the desserts his poor servants had been attending to at the time of their demise-a delightful array of tarts, exotic fruits, and pies, sadly soiled by blood and brains, and thus unusable."I don't suppose," said Darcy, "that you would give me the honour of dispensing of this unhappy business alone.
Elizabeth and Darcy laughed at the sight, and for a moment, resolved to keep walking-as the zombies had failed to take notice of them.
If you are a die hard true loyal Jane Austen fan, you will not like this book.
If you are peeps like me on the other hand, who don't really relate that much to Pride and Prejudice, you should pick it up.
No, it is not a great work of fiction but it's super fun.
I did notice that everyone in this book is described as handsome, especially the ladies.
I still hated all the characters except Mr. Darcy.
The book as a whole is very violent in nature.
It's a 3.5 Star book.
But i saw the promo pictures of the film and i love the actors and the production seemed great, so i said 'why not?', and i did read it and i will forever LOVE it.Its the classic book you love with a twist.
Sexier stronger Darcy.BUTTT if you're not into zombies, but too curious to read it, then you can just read it and ignore the zombie parts, because other than that, its EXACTLY like the original, that's why in the authors of the book is our dearest Jane's name included.
This one was like a re-re(re..re..re.....infinite) read, for me, with a twist.
They claim that in this book you’ll find some Ultra-Violent Zombie Mayhem… but they lie!!!
They only have a couple of scenes with some mild zombie violence and that’s it!
the rest is a bunch of letters where some reference to some zombie violence happened somwhere is made… and that’s it!
then there is a lot of talk about learning kung fu and shit!
And the worse of it is that Mr. Greg told me that the dude who wrote has been commissioned to write Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Slayer (or something like that) and I’ll be damn if I wont buy that shit as soon as it comes out!!!
It's not the zombies. It's the writing.
I was excited to read this one.
Unfortunately the whole gimmick with the zombies wore thin pretty quickly, especially because they rarely made an appearance and when they did never served any purpose.
I'm not quite sure who this book is made for.
Zombie/horror fans will grow bored waiting for something to happen and Austen fans may not enjoy the idea of someone reworking the book.
I'm somewhere in the middle, not an avid Austen or zombie fan but enjoy both.
I'd much rather have read the original and would recommend everyone else to do the same.
Mostly because I a) haven't even written one for the original Pride & Prejudice even though I love it, and b) I don't really know what to say.What I do want to mention: Zombies fit into almost every classic book I can imagine, that doesn't already include a fantasy element.
The story would still be fun if there are only zombies, but all the talk of Chinese warrior traditions and ninja battles made me cringe (Oh, no!
I'd give it 4,5 stars without the Chinese warrior/ ninjas though :DDid anyone read the sequel/ sequel?
It is a truth universally acknowledged than re-imagining classics with zombies comes out as a pile of trash when written by Seth Grahame-Smith.
That was the brilliant revolutionary idea?
Not the zombies, but ninjas?
Brilliant.
Oh so fun, since it has worked perfectly for others before to completely change the way a character is, that has never offended any lover of the original work before, never.
The one thing that can be considered acceptable is the fact that Wickham pees on himself, but I take the original plot-line of his character over this any day.Highly doubt I will ruin my eyesight with the film, but you never know.
The concept is, of course, a reworking of the original Pride and Prejudice storyline and adding in a whole extra angle of the English countryside being infested with a plague of zombies.This necessitates a whole host of changes to various details of the cast and setting: Elizabeth and her sisters in this version are for example trained students of Shaolin martial arts and are among the deadliest fighters in the countryside when it comes to taking down the undead.
Because this book is sublimely silly, and is definitely not to be taken seriously.
I honestly wouldn't have gotten through it if it weren't for the fact that I love the original Pride and Prejudice.
There weren't a lot of times that I was actually amused by any of it, they were the kind of jokes that would amuse a 13 year old boy.
But even a 13 year old boy wouldn't want to read this, since it's so much like the original.I really wanted this book to be better, but it was a disappointment.
The best part of the book: The title and the cover.
