https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111085.No_Longer_at_Ease
الرواية الثانية من ثلاثية الكاتب النيجيري شينوا آتشيبي حياة أوبي أوكونكو حفيد أوكونكو في رواية "الأش
How much time one need to change the mentality of the man ?
Is it really possible to make a new start by breaking from own roots, abandoning tradition and old beliefs ?Obi Okonkwo can consider himself as a privileged man.
After returning to Lagos is trying to find himself in new reality.
However, there is some freshness in that story, the belief that one must try to change the world and the message that the past can’t be so easily erased from the man.
When is a man corrupt - When he takes his first token of bribe or when he is caught taking his Nth bribe?When does a man break – when he runs low on means to eke out a decent life; or when he runs out of reasons to live?What is religion – a code of life or an artificial teat to be sucked on during hours of discomfort and otherwise quickly abandoned to comply with social norms?What is more difficult to repay – an enormous loan or the burden of perceived gratitude?Asking these and many more such difficult to answer questions is Chinua Achebe in his book – No Longer At Ease.It’s a beautiful if poignant story of a young Nigerian man, Obi Okonkwo who is facing his trial for taking a bribe and abusing his position in the Civil Service.
Yet thissecond novel of the great great Chinua Achebe shows how far ahead ofhis time he was, allied to his incredible vision and perception.Mainly, nowadays we lament the horrific effects of corruption in ourmidst, but in this novel (published in 1960!) Achebe already outlineshow corruption can insidiously creep upon even the finest of (young)idealists, become a way of life, and (start to) destroy bothindividual and society.
It is quiteheart-rending.A modern reader might ponder: if a fine, idealistic young man like Obican succumb to corruption (even going as far as sleeping with femaleswho want him to help them with scholarships et al) is there any hopefor African society in general?
Things continue falling apart, this time for Okonkwo's grandchild, Obi. I am not giving anything away here, as the novel starts off with the bad news for him.
Even so, the writing is very engaging (and quite different from Things Fall Apart), and it is with trepidation, dread and dismay that I followed Obi's slow but relentless slide into catastrophe in mid '50s Nigeria.
Chinua Achebe writes about the contrast of cultures so lovingly and empathically that one can’t help but bemoan colonialism, but feel a deep sadness over all that was lost.
The West African humor, tradition, intrinsic sense of the FUN of right now, the presence of song and dance- really couldn’t be more divergent from the stiff upper lip, duty bound (no matter how absurd) Englishman of the time.
As only Achebe can do, i was completely drawn in and cared about our unfortunate protagonist from the start.
No one else (that i’ve found) can so lovingly teach us what is really important & the damage western imperialist cultures have done to it.
"Our women made black patterns on their bodies with the juice of the uli tree.
It was beautiful, but it soon faded.
If it lasted two market weeks it lasted a long time.
But sometimes our elders spoke about uli that never faded, although no one had ever seen it.
We see it today in the writing of the white man.
They do not say one thing today and another tomorrow, or one thing this year and another next year.
In the Bible Pilate said: 'What is written is written.' It is uli that never fades."
While the first book talked about sexism in traditional society and how the coming of missionaries completely destroyed a way of life, and consequently, a lot of people who were unable to adapt, this book clearly shows how the effects of colonisation and racism affects people.Everyone loves to joke about Nigerian scams and the daily corruption spread over third world countries.
However, while he had spent his time in England dreaming about his home country, the ground reality will prove to be quite different.
Obi is a good man in a casteist and sexist society grappling with racism and post-colonialism problems.

The most interesting bits in the book concern the quick look at village religious stories and how ancient African religions mix it up with the new European faiths overlaid on top (not enough of a look, though).
This appears to be the condition of many citizens of traditional (that is, countries that seem to live by tribal or village relationship rules in existence for millennia, most of which are completely unworkable in the modern world), countries where family and religion are stronger than good federal or local government.Education PLUS a positive moral stance, AND a good supportive government, when genuinely pursued, in my opinion, are keys to bringing societies out of the dark ages of living the same way people lived in the year 1,000 AD, Gregorian calendar.
Corruption is the central theme of this novel, the second in Achebe’s African Trilogy that jumps ahead to Igbo strongman Okonkwo’s grandson Obi’s life in the 1950’s, on the eve of Nigeria’s independence from Great Britain.How does a young man, educated in Britain, with a strong moral belief in what is right and wrong, fall back into the very cesspool that he repudiates?
As a returning British-educated son of the land, in whom Nigeria places its hope for governance after independence, he is immediately given a civil service job earning him ten times more than his peers, plus a car, a driver, a house, a cook and the other trappings of upper middle class life.
While Achebe is best known for Things Fall Apart, you'd be doing yourself quite the disservice to only read that volume.
No Longer at Ease is Achebe's take on his time, when the newly independent Nigeria was really trying to find its place.
It's very much a mid-century humanist novel, with social issues at the forefront, but it's a good one, and even though the symbolism can be a bit heavy at times, the novel doesn't come off as a didactic show-and-tell session.
Given the recent popularity of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, I wouldn't be surprised if more people were dusting Achebe's oeuvre off soon
Reading No Longer at Ease was such a pleasure, as if I were walking barefoot, enjoying all things around me and taking in every little nuance.
and does so with a natural flowing subtlety.Obi Okonkwo, the central character, returns to Nigeria after studying in England, funded by his townsmen.
Love doesn’t always conquer all.Isaac Okonkwo, Obi’s father at first appears hard-nosed, however, it becomes evident that his decision to become a devoted Christian, against the will of his father, shows his willingness to be true to himself, such as his son is trying to do.
نادراً ما تكون هناك ثلاثية لا يكون بينها جزء تشعر أنه لم يكن بتلك البراعة التي اتسمت بها ما سبقه من اجزاء. ففي " الأشياء تتداعى " و" سهم الله " هناك اتشبي البارع ، البعيد عن الثرثرة، والممتع. لكنه في هذا الجزء، وعلى ما يبدو، أنه بدأ باستنفاذ خزينه الميثيولوجي واستكناه تاريخ الإيبو سردياً، ليطل علينا بجزء يتحدث عن قضية رشوة تقاضاها موظف رفيع في دائرة حكومية. في ظل حياة عصرية تختلف تماماً عن عالمي الجزء الأول والثاني. نجمتان بسبب سرد ما لا علاقة له بالأحداث ولا بالثيمة، وأيضاً بسبب الترجمة والحوارات باللهجة الدراجة.
Hence, readers are provided with a description of Obi as a bright-eyed young man, returning to his hometown in Nigeria, upon completing his collegiate education in England.
However, Obi finds himself in unforeseen financial difficulties that leaves him questioning the notion of tradition versus progression within the Umuofia culture.
When Obi is challenged about his love interest by the Umuofia Progressive Union, Obi quickly learns that power and money does not guarantee complete control in a culture filled with impenitent traditions concerning family and marriage.Achebe eloquently creates a character that is at a critical point in his life, where each major decision determines his fate.
Tragedy looms and finally arrives.At first I missed the powerful story of Things Fall Apart.
The tragedy is the same: the loss of certainty and the surrender of old tribal values in an effort to mix with the White Man. But the times are so different that Obi mistakenly hopes his modern views and education will see him through.Thus, it seems the story is more tawdry, less shocking.
Yet Obi's efforts to carry on as an African while trying to assimilate into modern times are just as tragic as the headman's failure in Things Fall Apart.
La solitudine della terza generazione Poi arriva la terza [generazione]. […] La generazione povero-me, sono-solo. La generazione né-né. La terza è una generazione invisibile, teorica, la cui pelle si confonde con la tappezzeria, e che lo sappia o no, si porta dentro il viaggio come una perdita. (Isola)  Obi, il nipote di Okonkwo protagonista di Le cose crollano, dopo quattro anni di studi universitari a Londra torna in Nigeria: apparentemente ha davanti tutte le strade spianate perché la sua lau
La nota di Alberto Pezzotta (il traduttore) spiega bene che le tante anime presenti nel romanzo sono magistralmente espresse da Achebe con altrettanti registri linguistici: inglese formale per i nigeriani istruiti e gli inglesi, broken english per i personaggi che non conoscono la lingua, pidgin english per la comunità locale e, infine, la lingua igbo, l’idioma tradizionale della Nigeria sudorientale, usata per citare antichi proverbi e miti ma anche per non farsi capire dagli inglesi.
Can there be hope for modern Nigeria?In his introduction to the 1988 Picador collection, The African Trilogy (that contains Things Fall Apart, No Longer at Ease and Arrow of God), Achebe says of No Longer at Ease, and in response to V S Pritchard’s comment at the end of his review of Things Fall Apart that Achebe’s second novel would be difficult to write:“No Longer at Ease was the second I wrote and it managed, by that fact perhaps, to inherit all the difficulty the critic had prophesied.
অনেকদিন পর আজ পুরো দিনটাই শুয়ে-বসে-পড়ে কাটালাম। পরে কখনো লিখবো এই বইটা নিয়ে।
The book is brief but manages to capture a great deal of complexity and nuance in Obi's descent; when he finally starts taking bribes it feels like a natural evolution of the character's situation, while being far removed from the Obi who returned from England, despite the small time elapsed.
Obi ha vuelto de Inglaterra después de haber estudiado alli gracias a una beca, y cuando vuelve se encuentra que la vida no es tan fácil, porque tiene que recompensar de alguna forma a los que han financiado su beca, y al mismo tiempo tiene que demostrar muchas cosas, haber estudiado en el extranjero y haber conseguido más tarde un trabajo como funcionario, se considera un éxito pero Achebe ya se encarga de hacernos ver que no es oro todo lo que reluce.
Unlike his grandfather, Obi encounters complicated issues related to identity, white&black culture, corruption, hypocrisy, change of traditions and in-betweenness caused by his academic life in England.
Obi’s desire to have British Education results in his loss of connection to his own roots as a concomitant due to the conflict between consuming structure and repulsive ethics of British milieu and Nigeria’s self-preserving culture.The generation change caught between two worlds in which Obi finds himself forces him to make a choice between tradition and progression.
This audio book version of the second part of Achebe's AFRICAN TRILOGY did not disappoint. I wondered how Achebe would maintain the connection between the two novels with them being set about fifty years apart. In each novel, he examines the response of a man of principle to the challenge of following the dictates of his conscience. The enlightening and entertaining African Ibo proverbs which are woven through both tales provide another link between the novels.
This was clearly written, culturally fascinating, and had a strong sense of truth. However, it also had a strong sense of foreboding which I found frightening and didn't really like. In fact, I am not sure what books like this are trying to do. Explain how good people fall into corruption? Explain why Nigeria is how it is? Place blame? Achebe's allegory is universal, and is as insightful as anything, but it is frustrating that it doesn't manage to fully answer the awful questions it raises.
I enjoyed this one much more than the first book in this trilogy. So much so that I actually am eager to pick up book three. Great writing and great story line.
I liked the old-new clash in this book, which was portrayed very well in the interactions between all the different characters, each showing a different element of the interactions.(...)The final thing I want to talk about is the atmosphere of the book.
In that way, he managed to create a book everybody can connect with who has had similar experiences.Many people praise Achebe’s series because it shows the African perspective on colonialism and Western influence, especially because most other books on that subject are written by Western authors.
What this book does well is showing the perspective of one Nigerian man and how he tries to navigate between traditional values and new influences.
The book is set towards the end of Nigeria's experience with colonialism - when Nigerians started going to school in England and came back to work in the government - and were stuck straddling the two cultures.
The book opens with the trial of the main character Obi who is charged with taking bribes - a practice we quickly find out is common place in his Ibo culture but is illegal in the English government.
The book then jumps backwards to Obi's journey to Lagos from England and the course of events that led to him taking bribes.
این رمان مستقل است اما از لحاظ روابط شخصیت ها ادامه ی رمان همه چیز فرو میریزد از همین نویسنده است. قهرمان داستان این رمان، در واقع پسر قهرمان رمان قبلی است و وقایع را پس از نفوذ و تغییراتی که اروپاییان در آفریقا ایجاد کردند بیان میکند.
It is fitting because Obi home country is Nigeria and he had the opportunity to study in England because of the scholarship he received.
The main would be Obi, who was a well education Nigerian who faced multiple hardships, with racism, education, fiancé Clara, mother and father, including financial hardship.
The next character name was Clara which Obi liked greatly eventually becoming engaged.
The problem with Clara in Obi home country it was frowned up to marry an outcast.
They were afraid to tell Obi family about their engaged.
The other characters were Obi mother and father.
This leaves the events leading up to why he is at trial to be the climax’s of the story.
This plot rather reminded me of a book I read called “Rabbit Run”.
While it has a pretty loose correlation I would say that these two books run on some similar paths.
For Obi being from Nigeria it only makes sense that the stories main events would mostly occur in Nigeria.
Since the story is about how a man is literally “No Longer At Ease” a cold tone allows for the reader to really see into and feel the main characters predicaments.
