https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025039.Mars_Volume_01
I like men of mystery, sure, but not miserable, insulting bastards who make a show of how badass they are.I bring this up because I am now a twenty one year old girl, and I have fallen for a manga 'bad boy'.
Near the end of this volume, Harumi and her friends threaten Kira by saying they'll smash all the bones in her drawing hand and ruin her burgeoning art career.
Kudos to Kira for looking up at them and saying she'll just learn to draw with her left hand if they do, but seriously?In two instances, Rei goes over to Harumi after she's finished threatening Kira, and tells her to stop it.
Most shōjo manga consists of impossibly handsome boys who are good at everything, girls who are vanilla wish-fulfilment devices and a plot that revolves around nothing but inexplicable instant romances.That said, Mars has single-handedly crushed these stereotypes and restored my faith in the genre.
So, despite having the typical good girl meets bad boy headline, why isn't Mars a stereotypical shōjo manga?
This isn't a bad thing, but it's not really something you usually see in shōjo manga, and I'm curious to see if and how the author tackles the issue.ii) Speaking of issues, has Kira been sexually abused in the past?
Book: Mars Vol 1 (Mars 1#) by Fuyumi SoryoGenre: Abuse, Coming of Age, Psychological, Coming of Age, Manga, Shojo, Romance and Gothic.Creatures: Non, just humans it's not a fantasy XDDDAge: Young Adult, Mature.Pages: 200 pages.Format: PaperbackPublication: April 23rd 2002 by Tokyopop Final Rating: 4/5"This is the first portrait I drew. The Model was a 17-year old boy. I titled it "Mars." Mars Signify two things- One is the planet, The other is a soldier-THE GOD OF WAR." - Fuyumi SoryoWhen peopl
Then let me explain my reason why this book is sooooooo good with a little review of Mars~STORY:Kira Aso is your typical shy girl.
I would like to mention the other cast but honestly, we don't have enough to go with since this is just the first volume so for first time introduction it's very good."Is this what they mean by becoming "A Slave to Love?"I don't know what lies ahead, but I want to keep going forever."I haven't spoken about the romance, but clearly it is just developing for now.
Kira is a quiet, shy, artistic girl who never stands up for herself - not that she's needed to.
She hates him on principle, but then is drawn to his beauty and the tenderness thatshe senses in his character (he asks to keep one of her drawings for sentimental reasons).
Although their apparently opposite natures should repel them, instead they are drawn to one another, perhaps by what each keeps hidden inside.
Lots of ugly actions, though – so many of the girl characters are willing to cut Kira down and intimidate her physically just because she won’t fight back and they want what she, apparently, has.
Kind of cliched with standard shoujo art, but if you're looking for a light read, this is for you. To tell the truth, I prefer Love Roma, Volume 1. I need humor in my shoujo. 2.5 stars. I want a manga where the girl rides the motorcycle and the guy is the sensitive painter.
27th book read in 2017.Number 186 out of 592 on my all time book list.
Sure the "shy girl meets bad boy" dynamic is something that has been done before (horridly overdone, really), but it's what Soryo does with this dynamic that makes Mars such a special story that stands above the rest.(view spoiler)[One of the biggest problems I’ve always had with mangas and animes (and other medias) is the treatment of rape, sexual harassment, and any other major traumas.
When something bad happens, the characters don’t deal with it and move on, they actually have to learn to carry their burdens.
I have been avoiding it because I had known from the time I was in high school its premise and that it was more dramatic than Peach Girl.
I can see the appeal of this series, and how it became so freakishly popular.
Or maybe it's the other way around?Anyway- I enjoyed this far and beyond more than I thought I would.
It is not one I can or could enjoy over and over again, or at any time I felt like reading.
This one requires a particular mood to permeate through your being to be able to fully enjoy.
Not actually anything to do with the planet Mars, and not the sort of manga I normally read. Not my preferred art style, either. I was surprised at how the characters grew on me.
Words cannot describe how much I love Mars.
It's your typical bad guy meets shy girl, bad boy helps girl overcome shyness, they fall in love but not without their share of problems.
But it's sooo much more than that.
The characters heal each other in their relationships and overcome some serious issues.
I love this manga so much I have the really cheesy Taiwanese tv drama based on it.
Before I nerd out any more over this series I'm just going to end by saying it's one of my favorite manga series.
Although, I do warn that the last...
To get a good idea of what to expect from MARS you can check out my review of the complete series on my blog Reading Robyn It's spoiler free, has images from the manga for those interested in a preview of the art, and gives a good overview of the roller coaster that is this series. MARS has staying power. With the strength of its plot it's not a manga easily forgotten!
I did not know what to make of the characters when I first started reading the series. Overtime I grew to love them and went through their ups and downs and all the drama they faced. I ended up loving the series!
5 Stars to all the series. Read this if you haven't, forget all the Shoujo you have read before. This is a Great Drama/Plot/Romance. This is not a light read.
When I was first getting into manga in middle school, this series was always on the shelf, and always advertised in other books I was reading.
It's been long gone from store shelves at this point, but I was digging through some of my online manga bookmarks last night/early this morning and saw it there, so here we are.I think Mars has a lot of typical shoujo elements to it, namely the jealous female classmate/bully, which is probably one of the things I hate most about shoujo in a school setting.
I'm in the middle of several other series that I've been collecting, so I'll probably wait before coming back to Mars.
The art is good, and the story is pretty good too.
I do like that there is some mystery, but not enough that nothing makes sense, just enough to make you want to read more.I also like the fact that Kira is so shy, but yet strong enough to tell Harumi to go ahead and break her right hand, she'll draw with her left, and break that too she'll draw with her feet.It does seam a little extreme, but girls can be cruel at that age.Also, yay for a high school with no uniforms!
Just re-read this for the billionth time and it's still one of my favorite things everrrr. Also why is this series out of print I'm cry
Whether you are a sucker for gorgeous art, tight-knit plot work, or beautiful characters with dark histories, you will definitely find yourself falling in love with this series before the end of the first volume.My experience with Fuyumi Soryo began when I picked up her psychological sci-fi series Eternal Sabbath a few years ago.
Learning that Soryo was the author for this fan favorite, I just couldn’t help myself.Mars literally has everything that is needed for a full-bodied romance manga.
Soryo unravels some dark and disturbing elements in her series but it becomes all the more accessible with the diligence of her lovely artwork.Mars is a superb romantic manga series.
Romance manga isn't typically my favorite type, but a book like this one I think could renew any reader's faith in the genre.The characters were intriguing specimens.
Their relationship isn't something as immediate as some manga books are wont to portray, but a progressive drama to follow.For some readers, this may leave something to be desired about the manga.
However, if you like lovey-dovey sweetness with a touch of edgy drama MARS would be a book for you.You can bet I'll be getting my hands on the next volume!This review can also be found here: http://anonomanga.blogspot.com/2011/1...
I read this book a couple of years ago, my cousin Christabell introduced me to this book shes also the one who got me into manga.
This book made me want to keep reading and wasting my money on buying more volumes, but it was worth it.
Mars is my favorite manga book.
I actually loved everything about this book accept that, " I think " there should of been more volumes.
I recommend this book to manga lovers and people that love to read love stories and also people that want to read something diffrent for a change.
This series, made me laugh and cry to no end.
I was so sad when it ended and I loved absolutely fell in love with the main characters.
There was drama, love triangles, fights, breakups, make-ups, and so much love.
Everything was complicated, and wonderful all at the same time.From beginning to end, I cheered for Rei and Kira.
They're two fragile souls learning how to love and heal each other.
Its a great manga series, and I'd recommend it to anyone who loves romance, shoujo and the "Bad Boy falls for Good Girl" plot scheme.5/5 stars.
If I could give stars just for the art work, I would give "Mars" volume one four stars.
I found the teenage angst thing way overdone and the bad boy and good girl cliché is also tiring.
I mean the bad boy even rides a motorcycle, which of course the good girl has never ridden on one before she met him.I did love the emotions shown through the art work and the story was strong enough for me to want to finish the book and continue on to read volume two.
Overall I found the book too predictable and in some parts I found it disturbing.
Like with other mangas, I buy just the first one of a friend recommends it to me, or I read her manga. So I read her Mars vol 1, and was hooked. Since then I have bought the entire set for myself. The story of Rei and Kira is fascinating and exciting, along with some rather dramatic moments. Wonderful manga!
Oh how I wish that it would be adapted into a drama!
The stunning artwork combined with genuine character development combine to create something extraordinary.I could have easily studied this book both in my English class and in my Art class at school, it explores so many interesting and challenging questions in such a fascinating way.It also feels like a little cultural snapshot into the time period it was written.
I think it would be interesting to take a look at the financial, environmental and business reports from the time period this story was written, and compare it to the attitude of the characters.
Recommended for wanting to read a beautiful, thought-provoking romance.
(4.5)I saw this manga all over when I was in middle school, and I'm finally checking it out.
I think I wouldn't have appreciated it then the way I do now.It's refreshingly moody and not the (often annoying) typical fluffiness that I see in manga today (maybe cause it's the 90s and teens/attitudes were different??).
Rei is perfectly imperfect, the type where I want to know more about him right away.
I find myself identifying with Kira a bit too, as I was more like her when I was in school (quiet, shy, always drawing, kept bolder opinions to self, etc).
Sama kok sama filmnya. But I think Drama Ver muchhh better than the Manga.I missed Taiwanese drama like this so much :(
I don't know how I feel about this manga yet since I've only read one volume so far. I like the art (it is beautiful) and the main character, though sometimes a cliché (or at least the things she experiences are ones that are fairly overused in manga series'), is still a character that I like very much. I want to see the rest of this series through, so that's all I'll say about this series so far.
First read this when I was around 10-11 years old at my local public library. It pulled me in and I was desperate to read the next copy whenever it was returned. The conflicts were so unlike anything I had read at the time seeing as I had mainly stuck to generic YA novels so I was pretty obsessed with it. I still treasure this manga and it will always have a special place in my heart.
Whole series: I loved these books a lot. a lot. It may be my favorite shoujo series. Not as light hearted as most, deals with serious issues. At it's core, its an endearing love story that proves that love is worth fighting for, even with family issues and dark pasts. Plus, gotta love me an artist with a motorcycle bad boy!
Read all 15/16 volumes. This series was not a favorite for me but I loved reading manga back in the day and read everything I could get my hands on. Ok art, and angsty storyline between a boring heroine and an interesting hero made for an uneven read for me. Probably a 3.5 star rating overall but not a keeper for me. I sold it years ago.
