https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57668.The_Rebellion_of_the_Hanged
عرفت عن هذا الكتاب عندما كنت أقرأ رواية "طيران فوق عش الواقواق" حيث علمت أن رواية اسمها انتفاضة المشانق متوافرة ضمن سلسلة ذاكرة الشعوببحثت عن الرواية فلم أجد لها نسخة ورقية أو الكترونيةفقررت استعارتها من مكتبة الجامعة الأردنيةوقرأتها الرواية ممتعة جدًا وذات أبعاد فلسفية عميقة ويكفي قراءة تحليل المحرر إلياس خوري لمعرفة مدى الإبداع فيهاولكن الشيء المحزن أن هذه الرواية هي الجزء الخامس من ستة أجزاء وهي الجزء الوحيد المترجمربما أترجم يومًا ما الأجزاء الخمسة الباقيةعمومًا رواية ممتعة ومشوقة وأنصح الجميع بقرائتها
Porque vivir libremente, aunque sólo sea durante unos cuantos meses, vale más que vivir cientos de años en esclavitud".Me digo: como ya hablé del autor en otra reseña, voy a ceñirme a la novela.
Ya. Como si pudiera decirse algo de una novela como La rebelión de los colgados sin tener en cuenta quién era B.
La rebelión de los colgados se lee en un santiamén, sin darse cuenta uno, y eso es algo que normalmente no me gusta, Nada.
Tierra y Libertad.En algún momento la novela recuerda a La guerra del fin del mundo de Vargas Llosa, sin tanta épica y parafernalia, pero con mucha más coherencia y compromiso.
Since this book has a really high average rating, I feel like explaining, why it did not speak to me.
He is patient, naturally slow and following "instincts" all through the book.Secondly, the powerful descriptions of the absolute abuse of human beings would not revolt me sufficiently because all the characters, not matter of which "class", whether good or evil, were just entirely stupid, cursing all the time, spitting, what have you.
But page-long descriptions of torture just make me flip through, giving me a feeling of nausea and confusion that I consider fairly apolitical.
Overall I really liked it, but wanted to like it more.Race is discussed oddly in the book, and women aren't even appendages to men, they're more like their children.
It was hard to get past that a lot of time, and made their early abuse harder to think back upon since women continue to be demeaned and don't seem to get their moment of revenge/ resistance.Also, towards the end when they talk about killing the children of property owners and then do - that blew me away.
A terrific stroryteller and obvious sympathizer of the Mexican rebellion (who wouldn't be after reading this), the mysterious B Traven-- the author of the The Treasure of Sierra Madre, his only book that became well-known in the U.S., was an American born, German raised and long time resident of Mexico.
He apparenetly wrote in German, but was an accomplished English speaker who was dissatisfied with translations of some of his books and so did ones himself.
Little is known about Traven, even his real name, except for his books.
gotta love B. Traven. am rereading his series of novels that give background to the Mexican Revolution of 1910. this one is especially good...the fate of Mayan lumberjacks in the jungles (of Yucatan?) at the time that the revolution breaks out. Gives a good sense of life, not only as a lumberjack, but on coffee and rubber plantations that is so oppressive that it essentially forces workers to rebel or die...
No hace falta voltear a ver los hechos crueles que sucedieron en otros países como la segunda guerra
As the title suggests, this fifth book in Traven's "Jungle" series is the one in which the monteria workers finally rebel.
As usual with Traven, there's a lot of vivid detail and some very exciting sequences.
However, in this case, there are also more flaws than usual.
When talk of revolution begins, the dialogue becomes unconvincing and, after the much-anticipated rebellion has finally occurred, much of the tension disappears from the narrative.
Let's see if Traven can finish the series with 'General from the Jungle' as well as he started it with 'Government'.
"-Los revolucionarios que necesitan les expliquen los motivos por los que han de rebelarse son todo menos revolucionarios. La verdadera revolución, la que es capaz de cambiar los sistemas, se encuentra en el corazón de los verdaderos revolucionarios. El revolucionario sincero nunca piensa en el beneficio personal que la rebelión le reportará. Él sólo quiere derribar el sistema social bajo el que sufre y ve sufrir a los demás. Y por destruirlo y ver realizadas las ideas que considera justas se sacrifica y muere."
The plot is incredibly interesting, the writing not so much.
Ok
the prose and language isn't that interesting but i appreciate all the descriptions of brutal violence.
Εγχειρίδιο αυτο-οργανωθείσας επανάστασης εξαθλιωμένων ανθρωποειδών - προς κάθε ενδιαφερόμενο.
The writing is as clunky as the story is stirring.
Con sus dos hijos, y su hermana Modesta, Cándido es arrastrado hacia el destino de cualquier indio que ose deber dinero: es llevado a las monterías, donde debe tirar arboles de caoba con una meta diaria de cuatro toneladas.
Cuando Cándido llega a las monterías, los golpes con fuetes ya no son suficientes, por lo que la nueva modalidad de castigo es colgar a los trabajadores por horas, en medio de la selva, donde están expuestos a toda clase de vejaciones ya sea por animales o por los capataces.
Esta novela muestra cómo la necesidad del no ser dependiente de alguien más, orilla, en este caso a los indígenas, a levantarse en armas hasta alcanzar su libertad e independencia.Es el segundo libro que leo de Bruno Traven, añado a priori que al pasar la vista por su biografía he reparado en que él, al viajar a Chiapas se vuelve particularmente sensible a la forma de vida y a las tradiciones milenarias indígenas y publica un libro documental sobre este estado.
Traven, amigo de Frida Kahlo, Tina Modotti, Diego Rivera, Siqueiros entre muchos más, se dedica plenamente a su trabajo y al morir, de acuerdo con sus deseos, sus cenizas se esparcen sobre la Selva Lacandona.La rebelión de los colgados exhibe de una forma deplorable la esclavitud de los chamulas en su más vehemente expresión.
There is a short story at the end of the book relative to Mexican revolution perhaps is not much lon
This book is really a product of its time and philosophy (taking an extreme Marxist worldview).
There is absolutely no nuance to the narrative - the ladino/non Indian characters are uniformly awful human beings who exist only to torture Indians.
They are entirely interchangeable.
As are the Indians, who exist only to suffer.
This class based world view makes for an interesting read only in that it reaffirms what you already think, but doesn't challenge it.
For a far better take on the ladinos and indigenas of Chiapas (and novels that actually have literary merit and won't make you roll your eyes), head over to Rosario Castellanos.
"[...] - ¿Pero cómo querías que supieran lo que debían hacer si nadie se lo explicaba?- Los revolucionarios que necesitan les expliquen los motivos por los que han de rebelarse son todo menos revolucionarios.
La verdadera revolución, la que es capaz de cambiar los sistemas, se encuentra en el corazón de los verdaderos revolucionarios.
El revolucionario sincero nunca piensa en el beneficio personal que la rebelión le reportará.
Él sólo quiere derribar el sistema social bajo el que sufre y ve sufrir a los demás.
Y por destruirlo y ver realizadas las ideas que considera justas se sacrifica y muere."
Meh. I loved it until the last coupl'a chapters. It ends up reading quite like Upton Sinclair's "The Jungle". It's a wonderful narrative that illuminates the horrible living conditions for a type of worker during a particular time period, but then degenerates into rather a rather boring, dry and clunky political propaganda piece. It's not the politics that bum me out so much as how very...disjointed his last few chapters are from the rest of the book. Other than that, it's actually wonderful.
My fvorite Traven read. A story of the cruelties inflicted on the Mexican Peons who fall into bondage from debt. In this case a young husband becomes indebted to a doctor for saving his wife's life. He is forced to work on a mahogany forest for years with no escape in sight working daylight to dark 7 days a week and seeing his companions hanged in nets for insubordination. He plans and executes the great escape.  A treaure of history seldom told in this blunt a fashion. A classic.
Me gustó mucho y me dejó pensando, pero el final no s de mis favoritos, posiblemente porque esperaba que me gustara más. Me confundí en algunos capítulos de al final, pero estoy feliz de haberlo leído.
This is not a pretty book. It is the harshest of the “Jungle Novels” that I’ve read so far, with its depictions of murder, torture and mayhem. The rebellion commences but, by the conclusion of the novel, has not yet faced its ultimate test. Not a book easily forgotten.
great trilogy read this 40 years ago.
mexican revolutionary pulp fiction of the highest calibre - this one is pretty vicious and had me leaping from my overstuffed armchair in tearful indignation
Mucho mitin al final le quita naturalidad y fluidez a la historia.
The second to the last novel in B. Traven's epic telling of the Mexican Revolution from the point of view of those who made it. A monumental study in radical subjectivity.
Wonderful Jungle Novels!!
Good historical fiction on the Mexican Revolution
A wonderful book worth reading before traveling to Mexico. It is tackling one of the darkest and saddest period of the Mexican history (right after Porfirio Diaz dictatorship)
