https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782580.The_Complete_Poetry_and_Prose
William Blake is one of the greatest poets of the English language. I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in the mysteries of life. A great concept that William Blake shared was how the individual ought to draw his or hers own conclusions and find their personalized ways, otherwise, they'll become a slave to someone else's thoughts the rest of their lives. Very well worth the read. Furthermore, anyone who's interested in republicanism and democracy should put this great book on their shelf. I thoroughly enjoyed both the poetry and prose in it. Highly recommended.
But Blake, a man of profound faith, contends that "When I am commanded by the spirits, then I write; and the moment I have written, I see the words fly about the room in all directions." Yet how telling it is that even this humble explaining-away of his powers is fraught with poetry.But whether or not Blake credited himself with his evident genius, the works speak for themselves.
Routinely taking on such lofty subjects as the fall of man, love and jealousy, desire and reason, good and evil, a reading of Blake's work all together yields just as much beauty, mystery and genius.Equally as riveting are the many letters with which the primary portion of the book concludes.
Ladies and gentlemen, make way for the BLOWOUT! scholarly edition of the man who kept me focused on the inherently fated and apocalyptic nature of modern life for a few weeks. I've been a fan ever since high school, and felt the need to clean house and read the complete works, including the really boring, ephemeral letters. With this, you get a complete picture of Blake's worldview, and the bizarre mythological systems he dreamt up to convey his vision of life in England around the turn of the 19th Century, dark Satanic mills and all.
William Blake became one of the most highly regarded writers and painters during his time--after his death. He was opinionated and luckily he was afforded the opportunity to express views that others were persecuted for expressing during that time in history. To fully understand his work, study his life and the societal norms of the day. Otherwise you can't fully appreciate the beauty of his ideas.
I will never be done with this book.
I have found Northrop Frye’s Fearful Symmetry: A Study of William Blake useful in its commentary on the general outlines of Blake's mythological system).Along with the major and minor prophecies are included Blake's earlier and less daunting works such as Songs of Innocence And of Experience (but while these lyrical poems are much more accessible, they, too,have their ambiguities—on which latter I enjoy Harold Bloom's commentary, particularly in Blake's Apocalypse: A Study in Poetic Argument).Other works like An Island in the Moon and The Marriage of Heaven and Hell do not require familiarity with Blake's mythology.
It is this conservation of words expressing such an abundance of ideas that makes his writing profoundly simple.
That combined with the fact he had visions and was probably insane makes for great poetry."Hear the voice of the Bard!Who Present, Past, & Future seesWhose ears have heardThe Holy Word,That walk’d among the ancient trees.Calling the lapsed SoulAnd weeping in the evening dew;That might controll.The starry pole;And fallen fallen light renew!O Earth O Earth return!Arise from out the dewy grass;Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumbrous mass.Turn away no more:Why wilt thou turn awayThe starry floorThe watery shoreIs given thee till the break of day."
William Blake has got to be my favorite poet. Read 'Songs of Innocence' to your kids and read 'Songs of Experience' for yourself. This guy was a genius. And he was probably insane.

Cruelty has a Human HeartAnd Jealousy a Human Face Terror the Human Form Divine And Secrecy, the Human Dress The Human Dress, is forged Iron The Human Form, a fiery Forge. The Human Face, a Furnace seal'd The Human Heart, its hungry Gorge.
I knew Blake composed beautiful work.
At least read "The Visions of the Daughters of Albion" (the hymn to free love), and "The Book of Urizen", a creation story that never ends."Tell me what is day or night to one o'erflowd with woe?Tell me what is a thought?
and in what houses dwell the wretchedDrunken with woe forgotten, and shut up from cold despair.Tell me where dwell the thoughts forgotten till thou call them forthTell me where dwell the joys of old!
& where the ancient loves?And when will they renew again & the night of oblivion past?
“The Marriage of Heaven and Hell”[…] If the doors of perception were cleansed, every thing would appearto man as it is: infinite. For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro'narrow chinks of his cavern.[autograph:] William Blake: one who is very much delighted with being in good company. Born 28 Nov 1757 in London & has died several times since.“Auguries of Innocence”[…]Every Night & every MornSome to Misery are BornEvery Morn & every NightSome are Born to sweet delig

Blake was one of the first poets I ever read and have come across time and time again and is also one of the only poets I've ever studied whose works I've thoroughly enjoyed reading. Thought provoking and full of interesting discourses - a sobering but refreshing step back from the typical 18th Century Gothic or Austen novel.
I absolutely adore William Blake. I am completely against any edition that has the poems without the illustrations (dunno about that one, picked it at random). It's literally a crime against the man's art to publish the text without the drawings.
Truly a paragon of artists and the arts.A master, a mystic, a teacher and a tempest."Energy is eternal delight."
Outstanding edition of Blake, the best available for a broad overview of his work.
the apocalypse, from The Four Zoas: Night the Ninth:"... rivn link from link the bursting Universe explodes"All things reversed flew from their centers rattling bones"To bones Join, shaking convulsd the shivering clay breathes"Each speck of dust to the Earths center nestles round & round"In pangs of an Eternal Birth in torment & awe & fear"All spirits deceasd let loose from reptile prisons come in shoals "Wild furies from the tygers brain & from the lions Eyes"And from the ox &am

Happy to see that the editors reproduced all of Blake's marginal notations (in books that he owned),
I reconnect on so many levels when I read Blake. Let me quote from the Song of Los:Times rolled o'er all the sons of Har, time after timeOrc on Mount Atlas howld, chain'd down with the Chain of JealousyThen Oothon hovered over Judah & JerusalemAnd Jesus heard her voice (a man of sorrows) he receivedA Gospel from wretched Theotormon."All things change, decay, and are reborn. That is only a part of Blake's message. Highly Recomended!
Growing up I hated poetry, but Blake was the one that changed that. I found Blake's rhymes pleasing to the ear and I could understand how poetry could convey more than simple prose alone. What I enjoy most about Blake's poetry is when he creates poems in opposition to each other, such as in the Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience.
What can I say. I simply love Blake.
Right, that one.
I haven't read ALL of it, but I've read most of the poetry and a few of the shorter prose pieces. I'm a fan of Blake's. His poetry is amazing.
An anarchist and forerunner of Marx who fully supported the French Revolution and its project of liberating all mankind from enslavement to the rule of kings and the creation of a free society of equals, as well as its anticolonialist mirror in America, William Blake waged class war through his ideological subversions of the power structures he characterized as demonic and forces of spiritual death.
His pursuit of creative truth led to the writing of an antiauthoritarian counter-narrative to the Bible, a new and unique mythology crafted in a series of masterpieces which include Milton, Vala or the Four Zoas, Jerusalem, and the preliminary works The Book of Urizen and The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
Absolutely the greatest book I have ever read. Blake's poetry and prose are unmatched, whether he's invoking life and nature, questioning religion (especially fundamentalism), or calling a fundamentalist reverend on his hypocrisy, this book has it all. I will never remove this book from my collection, and I'm still waiting to see if anything knocks it off #1 on my all-time favorites list.
wonderful poems, obviously
This is a treasure.
Though I am not much of a fan of Blake, this collection provided a renewed fascination with the greatest. I'm more of a fan of his prose, however scant.
The very first person that I'm aware of to ever use the emoji in poetry over 200 years ago.
I am not so much done with this as taking a break. Blake is an infinitely fascinating author/artist. I will be picking this book back up and reading it soon or when the fancy strikes me. "Thus men forget that all deities reside in the human breast."
