https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123543.The_Bourne_Legacy
The story is typical of the Jason Bourne series or books in this genre.
Amnesia rarely happens and Jason Bourne forgetting that he is David Webb because of the death of his family in Cambodia should have ended beautifully like that.
When he gets cured, he reverts back to being college professor David Webb and he forgets being Jason Bourne.
However, in this book, Eric Van Lustbader wanted to extend the thrill of the trilogy so he decided to subject David Webb again to some kind of trauma by killing his 2 friends and framing him in the process.
Once the story kicks in the 'style' becomes much less obvious and Lustbader seems to find a pace he feels more comfortable with.For no apparent reason Jason Bourne, as David Webb, is targeted for assassination by Khan (an uber-assassin (view spoiler)[who also believes he is Bourne's long-dead son (hide spoiler)]).
Even more impressive when you're following someone who isn't too sure where he's going himself.Finally, further proof to me that this book was a rushed job, with the Ludlum estate pressuring Lustbader to get something out there quickly to capitalise on the success of the Bourne Identity film, was that the book having been split into three sections, had them labelled: parts one and two, but followed by book three?
If you are a fan of the original Jason Bourne book Trilogy written by Robert Ludlum, then you know that the movies are a very loose representation of the story.
I think these things are important to note, because if you are a fan of the movie trilogy, then Lustbaders writing will probably feel more familiar to the characters you are used to.
I think movie fans will enjoy this book.
I like the original Bourne books by Ludlum also, but I almost consider them a completely different series.
If you were expecting this book to read like Ludlum, it does not.
What destroys this book is the ineptitude of the writing.First, this book takes place in the present day, with cell phones, laptops, and Grand Theft Auto (more on that later).
All of this would have been easily fixed: change the origin, set the book in the eighties or nineties, or do like the movie did and change the main character.Second, the author writes about things that he clearly doesn't know about.
At one point, a minor character's internal dialogue reflects on how impressed her son was when she cut him off while driving in Grand Theft Auto.
Since I was so enthousiastic about the first Bourne Trilogy, I thought: "why not continuing?".This book (4th in the row) is clearly written by another author, since many things that were important in the first trilogy were not taken into account in this book.
Some examples...Bourne is over 50 and clearly felt frustrated about his diminishing physical abilities: in this book it is not even mentioned and Bourne keeps doing things that are very demanding for the body without himself even thinking about it.Bourne always missed his wife and 2 children terribly: in this book he never really thinks about them, back hiding somewhere in the US.
This novel annoyed me. I love the Bourne film series, so thought I'd give this book a go. The plot seems to rely on the most unlikely coincidences... I didn't finish it.
As the torch of the Bourne series is passed along from Robert Ludlum to Eric van Lustbader, there is some continuity that makes the move seamless, though also some items that I, in my mission to read the series’ books consecutively, have noticed and will address below.
For now, though, the action and storyline do seem to move from one to the other with ease and, if you did not know, you might think that this book was also penned by Ludlum.Some interesting new strategies used in the storyline, as we begin with the now infamous TERRORIST/TERRORISM theme that pervades all books that are tied to political thrillers these days, or so it seems.
Van Lustbader, while keeping to the timelines and events of the previous Ludlum novels, decided to ignore much of what was written in The Bourne Ultimatum.
I thought, since the word legacy was in the title, that Van Lustbader would try to push the Bourne story forward by passing the thrown on to another agent (much like we see in the trailers to the up coming films) but no, he moved forward throwing Jason Bourne back into the action never mentioning the fact that Bourne has to be over 50 according to the time line that he decided to keep.

Bourne's son-turned-assassin has a very easy time tracking his elusive father all over the world, across an entire state, and eventually at least two continents.For two thirds of the book Joshua is trying to kill Bourne, because Bourne abandoned him as a child in Cambodia, while believing the boy was dead???
Two key characters, (I won't mention them in case you still want to read this drivel), in the past books were killed before they said a single word.
Here are several examples of the sorts of sloppy mistakes that steal the joy of reading this book.1 - a van Lustbader-invented assassin loads his sniper rifle with "the smallest caliber round it will take." What?
Boy was I wrong though.Van Lustaber, whilst not adding anything to the series manages to continue the writing at an excellent standard and in such a way that If I didn't know better I would claim that it was Ludlum's own work.
Now maybe it is, I am not sure how this book came into being - is there a series of plots Ludlum planned out that Lustaber is now writing?
Now, I don't know if Ludlum would have brought back this pace for this book or if he would have continued in decline, but I feel that Lustaber brought the book back from where only loyal readers would have gone, to somewhere I can safely say thay would interest even my non-reading friends.
Don't get me wrong, I rarely give a shit about sexism and the last thing I had in mind when going into this book was lots of women being badass.
One appeared for about two paragraphs to have sex with a - you guessed it - muscle boy officer by way of introducing him.The only two neutral women in the book were dead and missing in action respectively.
and all the assorted action movie things you expect from this genre.
Since this is not by Ludlum, fans of the original, both the author and Bourne character, are already set up for expectations of disappointment.
Bourne's nemesis seems to have an unreasonably easy time following the supposedly well-trained and supposedly elusive main character across the globe.
Bourne also seems to have lost his fantastic close-quarters combat skills he had in "Identity" since he is repeatedly beaten up by this same thuggish character disadvantaged by a far inferior training level.
I would not recommend this book, though I finished since I was past critical mass and because, to the author's credit, I do at least want to see Bourne vindicated.
I want to like this but it just doesn't feel like the same Bourne as in Ludlum's trilogy.
The characters seem to have less depth including Bourne and his inward struggle (that is almost non existent, but to me was a major theme in the originals - Webb/Bourne/Delta).
The main characters that you grew to know and love are MIA or dead.
I feel sorry for Marie and David, the trilogy finished nicely, but now after all they went through more tragedy so we can read another book.
Maybe this book is better for people who are reading after watching the movies, I wouldn't recommend for fans of the first 3 books.
I think this is my first Jason Bourne book although I have seen a couple of the movies. Like the movies, there is murder and suspense! Jason has "retired" from the CIA and is now a Georgetown professor under a new name. Until he is shot at by an assassin. He is now hunted by the CIA as a rogue agent. Good story but so much like the rest of the Bourne tales.
I am not into this kind of shit...I loved the movies though...anyone that was sent to kill me is rotting anyway...some force...my force is everywhere....good book anyway
So we now transition from the “well-trained almost super human yet still believable character with split alter egos” David Web from the second book to the “ridiculously damn near super human not quite believable character that simply switches to the Bourne identity” character from the movie.
I suppose since my introduction to the Bourne character began with the movies, it was not difficult to change gears in perspective.
So bringing the book character in line with the movie character seems to be a smart way to continue the attractiveness of the character.
Disclaimer : My mom, knowing that I would be watching the film version of Eric Van Lustbader’s The Bourne Legacy on Sunday, decided to buy me a book copy of it.
It has been through David’s pursuit of knowing who had tried to kill him that he was able to find out that it was his son, Joshua, whom he thought had died in Phnom Penh, back when he was still living a quiet life with his first family.
I was dumbstruck to find out that David had almost been killed by his own son, and the several set ups and constant manipulation through some of the most intense parts of the book really got me on my nerves.
I am interesed to see if Van Lustbader can maitain the intensity in the continuing series of Bourne Novels(1.The Bourne Legacy - (2004); 2.The Bourne Betrayal - (2007); 3.The Bourne Sanction - (2008); 4.The Bourne Deception - (2009); 5.The Bourne Objective - (2010); 6.The Bourne Dominion - (2011); 7.The Bourne Imperative - (2012)I was excited to see announcment of the release of the film "The Bourne Legacy" in August 2012, but was dissappointed to find it not only doesn't star Matt Damon, but is not based on the book.
I know this wasn't penned by Robert Ludlum but if his estate think this is an acceptable book to be printed with 'his' imprimatur then I won't be reading anymore Ludlum's.
I think I perhaps am not its target market, which seems from my reading to be a 15 year old boy.
Although I am probably doing a disservice to 15 year old boys.At one point in the book we are told a hardened hit team of Chechen rebels has learned Icelandic 'fluently' to be able to access a world leaders summit in a vegetable van.
One is called Dyadya Gourdjieve and the other is known as the Syrian.Special Agent Jack McClure has followed this trail of shadows and deceit rightinto the arms of Gourdjieve's alluring granddaughter Annika.
But when it comesto Dyadya nothing is as it seems, Alli Carson the child of a dead US president has become Jack's surrogate daughter but while he is in Russia she becomes thetarget of a cyper stalker.
Another fine page turning thriller from Eric Van Lustbader.
You can do no wrong readinghis books they are all guarenteed to keep you turning pages.
I wonder if Van Lustbader really studied  the characters of the Jason Bourne's series because in this book he showed very a very different protagonist: - On the third (Robert Ludlum's) book David was fifty something years old and he was constantly suffering for not being nimble enough like when he was younger.
Not here, not at all.- (in Ludlum's books) Jason was always very smart and resourceful enough that he didn't need any artist make-up shop to disguise himself.
it looks like Jason Bourne character in the 4th part become attention seeking all of a sudden , Bourne is not conspicuous ...
this author don't know how to put life to a character( forget about spellbound, , at least he could have done is -- read the first three books properly .
I started reading- more accurately, listening- to the Bourne novels when I found out one of my favorite audio book narrators, Scott Brick narrated them.
Not only did I love Robert Ludlum's writing style and story, but also Brick's strong, charismatic narration.
I was nervous as I began the book, unsure if a different author would change my feelings towards the series, however I felt he seamlessly continued the Bourne saga.
There is a new narrator, Jeremy Davidson, and he pronounces names differently than Brick and has odd accents.
There is also a new style to the recording, with special audio effects like gunshots, helicopters, and breezes.
I have to admit - I had just finished the first three of Ludlum's books and was disappointed in them.
So my *hope* was that Van Lustbader could do better.The first thing he did was enanger me all over again by killing my favorite character.
Then I felt insulted by the introduction of the Khan/Bourne hypothesis.
After which I felt like I was being run ragged.But then...
(I still don't like it, but I saw what happened, and could allow it).
And by the end of the book, I found myself exhaling deeply, as though I were...
It was GOOD.And I liked it.
I enjoyed it!
It was not my favorite Bourne book, but it was a good read while out camping.
The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five is because the plot dragged in the middle and one of the main characters rambled on too much.
that was part of his egotistical character.
None-the-less, I found myself skimming his inner monologues.
I really enjoyed getting back to the Bourne series.
Otherwise, my brain has trouble remembering all the foreign names and locations to keep them all straight.But, maybe I could count reading a Bourne book as brain exercise.haha.
I know quite a few die-hard Bourne fans really ripped Lustbader's attempt to write of Jason Bourne.
I'm not sure if they were ripping on the previous books by Ludlum or on the movies, featuring Matt Damon; doesn't matter to me.
I enjoyed the book.
I don't read these like they were real or historical; they're fiction, for heaven's sake.
With all the heavy reading I do, this type of reading let's me escape into another world for a while.
That's why it's called "fiction." So, put your mind at ease, turn on that reading light and prepare to not fall asleep early tonight.
It's mildly entertaining on its own rights, but as a Bourne novel, it was a disappointment. I don't think the writer understands what really makes Jason Bourne/David Webb tick. The book tosses out most of the continuity and concepts from the previous 3 books and replaces it with a bunch of new ideas that don't really work all that well, and ultimately writes a new character that has not a whole lot to do with the original one. Not happy with this one, started reading the sequel with some hope, and gave up. Haven't read any of the others either.
SPOILER ALERT::Very disappointing in my opinion. Not Ludlum-like at all. Bourne is too trusting. He would never hang out at some woman's apartment soaking in Chopin when he is being hunted by so many people. The son who survived the family slaughter returns with a vengeance? Give me a break.I also didn't buy the Spalko guy with so many resources and followers. Someone mentioned, too many characters floating around, of which I agree. It just didn't feel like the Jason Bourne Ludlum created.
This is my favorite book that I've ever read. Amazing. Kinda blew my mind that Eric Van Lustbader took on this series from the master (Robert Ludlum) & not only wrote in the style of Mr. Ludlum but actually surpassed any of the previous three books. And I loved those books. If you like the Bourne series, Robert Ludlum, Eric Van Lustbader, thrillers, spy novels or just really good books, you've got to read this book!
