https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140502.Respect_for_Acting
This book turned the shy dreamer writer into the shy dreamer actor you see today!
The "method" explained in understandable terms by a great acting teacher. She was my teacher and when I teach, I use this book as an important resource. If you are even considering being an actor, you should read this.
A readable, well-organized guidebook. A wee bit pretentious, but I sure want to work hard now!
“Respect for Acting,” by Uta Hagen is exactly what it sounds like; it teaches respect for acting.
Hagen who has graced the Broadway stage and film as a performer, was also an acclaimed acting coach.
Along with brilliant credentials, Hagen provides acting exercises and examples throughout the book to validate her method.
Her book was written to teach performers to become true artists, not stars.
While some acting methods are nothing but ego-trips, “Respect for Acting,” recaptures not only the idea of acting as an art, but also as a passion.
This is only the second book on acting I have read so far, the first one being Stanislavski's An Actor Prepares, so naturally I've been comparing the two a lot while reading. Although Uta Hagen's approach is definitely in line with Stanislavski's method, the book itself is very different. I love how she stresses the craft part of acting. Not that Stanislavski's book doesn't cover it as well, but in much less detail and I found "Respect for acting" to have a highly practical and no-nonsense feel to it, which I greatly enjoyed.
Good basic instructions on acting technique from one of Broadway's leading actresses. Ms. Hagen is noted for her "Nine Questions" exercise in defining one's character. Many of the directors I've worked with assign this exercise as preparation for a role. Reading about the exercise from the source and seeing how Ms. Hagen developed and refined this exercise in her own career is invaluable. I'm sure I'll come back to this book time and time again.
In my opinion, to make it short and sweet, this is the best damn book EVER written on acting. Uta = goddess of acting. Her other book is equally as good, and perhaps a bit more polished since it was written later in her life, but this one was the foundation of all her teachings at the HB Studio in NYC. Read it and weep, actors!
This is a great book for those serious about acting. Uta Hagen offers an in-depth perspective on how to deepen the connection between the actor and the stage, other actors, and their craft. The book includes excercises the actor can perform on their own or with others.
Really interesting take on the process of acting--I will definitely have to reread, it was a pretty information heavy book.
Uta Hagen has some good advice. I can't say this was a page-turner, but if you're in the craft, it's got some good bits of insight.
For the actor who is serious about his or her craft, this is a well-written and inspiring self-help book.
Split into three sections—The Actor, The Exercises, and The Role—Uta Hagen has obviously taken her decades of experience and carefully crafted her wisdom for aspiring actors.
In this second section, depending on the reader’s perspective, Hagen either connects with or loses her readers.
In the third section, Hagen recommends how to approach a play, role, and scene, if and when you are lucky enough to have landed a part.
Again, her approaches and breakdowns may be helpful to some readers, depending on the type of actor, of course.
I read this book for my Theatre Arts Advanced acting class in high school, we read one chapter a week, and I absolutely treasured this book.
Lol. Anytime we needed answers to improve our acting it was in the book.
What's funny is that if I didn't read a week in advance whatever questions I had about a character or emotion I was portraying would be there.
This book is great for any actor/actress.
Beginning or expert, Uta Hagen shows you how to keep your passion for theatre, that you can always improve, and new techniques that helps you become more comfortable on stage.
The Bible for Actors.
My acting teacher was a huge Uta Hagen fan and he gifted me “Respect for Acting.” Uta Hagen is simply incredible.
The woman knows her stuff.
I love every single thing she has to say and think she truly is a work of art.
She is an acting goddess and I will always look up to her.
This is a must read for any aspiring actor, director, theatre lover.
Acting is a lot of discipline.
Hagen does a great job of explaining techniques to help actors be the best versions of themselves and perform to their fullest potentials.
So what did I think of this book?
It was an interesting read.
Uta clearly has some brilliant ideas on acting.
But I found the book dated and hard to relate to.
Uta Hagen was born in 1919.
She was most famous for The Seagull, which she did in 1938, A Streetcar Named Desire in 1947 and Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf in 1962.
For young people today she could be a contemporary of Shakespeare.
Her writing style is old and dated.
Don’t get me wrong, my favorite book was written in 1961 and is as compelling today as when it was written.
Uta was such a fascinating woman and a great acting teacher. In high school, I used to watch Uta Hagen's Acting Class in my own acting class and learned a lot from her scathing comments on scenes. Her book was no different, part memoir, part instructional handbook. Her style of realism and honesty in acting is what I strive towards. Very helpful and reflective to read and work with this semester.
Respect for actingThis is a wonderful book on acting that I have read so far and I am glad that I did as it has helped me in my magic career. I highly recommend that anyone who is looking to improve their performance than this book is for you.
The best book on acting that I, at least, have read. Uta Hagen is funny, accessible, and brilliant, and it’s great to have an acting book that blends exercises with philosophy. Would highly recommend to anyone interested in the performing arts, no matter their level of involvement.
A fantastic resource and a must read for actors. So many new ideas, exercises and tips. Can't wait to use my new knowledge and re-read this again in the future!
Must-read for every actor.
An excellent classic on the art of acting.
I really enjoyed the way Uta explained the preparation for the moment before you enter a scene or on stage!
Uta Hagen was a celebrated actor and a beloved teacher based at the HB Studio in New York for a long time.
Considering the doldrums American acting is in, and the dire position of American theatre in the early 21st century, we might need some beloved actors to write us new statements asserting the worth and describing the discipline necessary for what we do, as well as why it is worth doing.
This is still very much worth reading, perhaps while training in a face-to-face acting class, and certainly in comparison to Hagen's later book.
But Uta Hagen takes you on a thrilling adventure and shows you that there is more to acting than memorizing lines, and standing on stage reciting them.
For example, Characterization, she talked about how acting is not just going on stage and making weird faces and reciting lines.
First you have to know a lot about your the person you are portraying and finding out everything about your character.
This does take a lot of homework but it does pay off in performance when you finally get to completely become the character.
It is a very well written book and it will help you a lot as it did me.
This is one of those books that I wish I had read 10 years ago and yet I picked it up at the most appropriate time to guide me through figuring out the most difficult role I've had to play yet.
I immediately want to start reading it again and take better notes this time.
Maybe I'll read this book every time I start rehearsal for a new play.
I guess I must read her next book too.
Uta Hagen is my new hero.
I have not read many books but this one got me started.
Even though I have a deep desire to learn about acting, Uta Hagen Respect for Acting book is extremely boring.
I expect to read the book again later to see if I feel different about it.
The read was pretty easy but after I finished I learned that the reading was boring, specially compared to the book I am reading now.
I unanimously recommend this book to be read by every actor and inspiring actor.
The book also has a lot of tips and recommendations.
I had to read this over the summer because my acting coach recommended it to all of her students.
I feel that she speaks as her word is fact.
"We MUST," and "After that we HAVE to." I just feel that it's her opinion and interesting as it is, it's just her OPINION!
I don't know, I think that her perspective is interesting and worth looking at, and I did learn a few things (or rather agreed with things she said that I already knew).
I don't think it's a necessity to read for actors by any means.
I just picked this book up again last week and skimmed.
I was amazed at how thoughtful, and insightful, and objective this book is on how to make an artform that conveys subjectivity; she gives the objective means to effectively, realistically, convey.Nuts, and bolts, and screws, and lumber, and roofing; she teaches how to build a moment and sustain that moment with, "where are you now, where have you been, where are you going." I found the exercises to be wonderful blue prints for "how to." It's like a recipe book that builds on itself.
A character may have a house to live in, and if they hadn't broken their leg, maybe a leg to stand on.
Uta's occasional (or not) pretentiousness aside, her tone is full of enthusiasm.
As intent as she may seem upon making her techniques clear, I see her overall objective as encouraging deeper thought for acting, and in doing so, generating greater respect for the craft.
So while I may disagree with some of the finer points, I can't help but appreciate the effort and passion.
I've found it helpful to treat this book not as an Acting Bible as some would seem to encourage, but rather picking and choosing what works for me, where I am in my work right now.
This is worth reading for any actor wishing to seriously engage with the work of acting, and I recommend it highly but with three caveats.
First, the examples are dated and if you're not at all familiar with the plays of the mid twentieth century, you won't get them.
Third, you'd probably get more out of this if you used it as part of a class, or at least read it in conjunction with other actors so you could talk about and practice what you're reading.
All of that said, it's still worth your while, one of the great treatises on acting.
A fascinating take on acting for the beginning actor.
Although Hagen focuses on stage productions, they are strong parallels with movie or TV productions, so this is well worth reading.
Just in the introduction, she quickly dispelled my illusion that training comes from actually performing.
I only found one problem, and that was that she admonishes the actor to not polish their lines with all the right pauses and inflections and gestures ahead of time, because those will change in rehearsal.
There is usually no rehearsal in movies, so the movie actor must come prepared with their lines ready to go, but of course, remain responsive to the director.
