https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92623.Orsinian_Tales
I am going to be devastated on the day that I see Ursula K. Le Guin's obituary in the papers, and this book is one of many reasons why. This is some of the best prose that I've read recently. She writes like Batman fights: no jazzy wire-fu whirl and leap, no showy moulinette pirouette lunar gravity twirl--just the right phrase in the right place at exactly the right time.
The 11 stories that make up the Orsinian Tales are each set in a different historical period from 1150 (“The Barrow”), by way of 1640 (“The Lady of Moge”), to 1965 (“The House”).
In “An Die Musik” the focus is the creative impulse itself: Why write (in this case music) in a world where creativity has dubious economic value and bestows no material power?Although each story contains indications of the period of time in which it set, each story also concludes with a year, and sometimes if you’re not sure exactly when the story is taking place coming across the date at the end can cause you to re-evaluate what you’ve read.
I never thought I'd find a Le Guin story I didn't care for and while some of the short stories in this collection are okay, the majority just didn't feel like her writing and left me disappointed.
I'm unsure if this is strictly because the writing actually was different or because I enjoy her SFF writing so much and this more "real life" world left the characters seeming dull by comparison to others she's created.
I'll always be a Le Guin fan, and name her as a favorite author of all time, but even if you love a writer, this book, for me, is proof it doesn't mean you'll love EVERYTHING they write, no matter how talented they are.
Her fantasy work is extremely valuable and I was curious as to this anthology of more realistic stories, even though set in a fictional (apparently Eastern European) country.To be sure, the approach of combining stories of medieval families with Cold War/ Police State families in the same small section of a countryside reminiscent of some parts of Poland, Belarus, Rumania, or another is an intriguing string upon which to string these beads of story ideas.
Of course, by choosing such a gray, cold setting, I’m sure LeGuin intended this anthology to be depressing.
A Week in the CountryAn die Musik Brothers and Sisters Conversations at NightIle Forest Imaginary Countries The Barrow The Fountains The House The Lady of MogeThe Road East
Ursula LeGuin is one of my favorite authors, because of the sociological and psychological realism of her works.
What this book teaches me is that I like it best when her realism is balancing fantasy.
It takes place in a medieval country still precariously balanced between Christianity and paganism, and that tension is played out with economical, graceful prose.
It is also the story a takes place far from LeGuin's own experience -- a lot of other stories in this volume are set in or near the '60s -- supporting my belief that the more outside actual experience, the more I like LeGuin's work.
Now, I think that outlook is pretty damn questionable; yes, this is mostly a stab at realism, although "The Lady of Moge" feels like a folktale, but a more realist Le Guin =/= a Le Guin book that's less worth your time.In the intro to my edition of The Left Hand of Darkness, Le Guin herself admits that sci-fi is less about trying to predict the future as trying to explain the present.
Umm. What the heck was that? Basically a collection of mostly disconnected short stories set in Eastern Europe. The stories are dark and vaguely pointless. The language and writing I'm sure is considered beautiful by others but I didn't see it. A trudge to get through. Where something non-fiction based in a similar setting might have worked better for me. No real ideas, no real truth. Just unrelenting drudgery. And so that there is less confusion - this is not science fiction, this is not fantasy.
Le Guin writes in such a prosaic way here.
She's such a good writer, but the disconnected stories, the several narrators within the same story, and the longish prose often makes these stories more difficult and poetic than jaunty and concise.
Her Orsinia is a fictional rural world - middle European - but very much a part of our world; this isn't Le Guin's scifi at all.
These disconnected stories skip around different time periods and families to tell of Orsinia's people.
Many of the characters have beliefs that get challenged.
In various ways, each character is both right and wrong.
3.5 estrellasEncantador, por supuesto. Aunque debo admitir que no me ha enganchado tanto como los libros que he leído antes de Le Guin, y algunos de los relatos no me convencieron del todo. Eso sí, como siempre, es interesante como la mayoría de los relatos parecieran contener alguna velada crítica social.Mi momento favorito:Zida miró fijamente al enemigo que acababa de irrumpir dentro de las murallas y empezó a gritar. Fiel hasta último momento a la causa perdida del verano, fue metida de cabeza en el taxi antes que nadie.
I just reread this and had to change my assessment.
Each of the stories, set in the fantasy country of Orsinia, which is planted firmly in the history of our real world, was exceptional, brilliant, tender, personal, and delightful.
My main complaint is that I wanted to know more about all the people and their stories.
I wanted whole novels about every single one of the stories.
Nevertheless, despite their too-short nature, each was long enough to give me enough information that I came to care about the characters and feel empathy for them.
I'm so glad I reread this collection.
Ursula has mastered me again.This collection, set mostly in the troubled Eastern-European fictional country of Orsinia during the early-mid 1900s, is rife with the political philosophy that make Le Guin's work so thematically poignant, but told with such attention to characters, with such a sparse brush. It's like wandering an art gallery.Almost entirely absent are elements of science fiction or fantasy, making this the perfect collection to introduce someone otherwise wary of those genres to Le Guin's writing. The rest of us may simply find it a refreshing return to earth.
My friend and I have had an ongoing discussion about Cloud Atlas and Years of Rice and Salt, both of which range through vast swaths of time but with very different agendas.
This book, and series of mostly unconnected stories set in the same fictitious country located in the middle of the real central Europe, makes a fine addition to that conversation: from the medieval past to the present (the late 1960s, in this case), the events in the lives of a few mostly inconsequential people is set against the backdrop of modern Western history, ever so slightly refracted.
Brilliant stuff.
A decent collection. My favourites were "An Die Musik" and "The Lady of Moge". Besides that, no standout stories in particular but just the gift of managing to conjure a convincing land - this time a "real" country baked into European history.
I read this long ago. I just picked up my old copy and started reading the stories contained within. The prose is gorgeous and haunting. I am glad to be reading this again.
Although Le Guin's stories are often short, it's the first time I read stories so short by her.
Actually, the first time I read short stories by someone who's not Argentinian, and the local authors have a very distinct style.Another unexpected factor is the fact that many of the writings revolve around romantic love stories, something rather unusual in what I've read of Le Guin's works.
All stories wrapped up very nicely, but still, I want to know more about this world.A very nice read for anyone who enjoys well built worlds with interesting characters!
The prose was beautiful, because it's LeGuin, but I just couldn't work up any interest in any of these characters.
An excellent collection of short stories set in various ages in the fictional country of Orsinia. Orsinia is somewhere in central Europe but the stories span from the dark ages to the almost contemporary but all are really about the complex relationships within families.
In honor of Ursula Le Guin's passing (and because I'm deep into RITA reading that I can't talk about), I'm sharing my favorite of her books. This wasn't the first of her books I read (I'm pretty sure those were the Earthsea books from the library), but it was the first time I read her adult short stories. I grabbed this book off a shelf while on vacation somewhere and devoured it while idea fireworks went off in my brain. I then tried to press it on everyone I know. Beautiful, lyrical, profound stories.
The author is Le Guin, and if you didn’t know who that is the cover helpfully points out she’s the author of the Earths Trilogy and the winner of the Hugo and Nebula Awards.
It’s clearly marketed as a fantasy, though to be fair a careful reader of the back cover would notice that these tales are explained as Le Guin bringing “to mainstream fiction all the power and enchantment” that have made her so well known for science fiction and fantasy.
They only had to be lovely and draw on a magic that was history and humanity itself.These are what the stories in Orsinian Tales do, and they do it very well.
Though Ursula K Le Guin is undoubtedly one of my favorite writers of all time, this is only the second collection of hers I've read, which actually isn't super unusual, since I rarely read collections.But this is a very atypical work for Le Guin, as it's essentially realism.
Those were actually my favorite, I think, and one of them is the most brutal and shocking stories I've read in a long time.I liked this collection a lot but I likely won't read the novel that's also set in this country.
Wellll....I chose to do a presentation on this collection of short stories because I was under the impression that Le Guin wrote science fiction/fantasy (she did write my favorite short story ever, "The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas").
Sure, a few of these stories could be termed "Fables," and yes I see the parallels of war in this world with war in ours, but mostly what I see are modernist love stories that make me want to claw my brain out.
(Be forewarned, I am of the camp that frowns upon modernist writing and says, "but nothing HAPPENED." Yes, I like plots.) I guess there's some expressionism going on here too.
This collection is just what the doctor ordered: a seamless prose world of forests, shadows and light, great cities, young (and imperiled) love...in creating her fictionalized country, LeGuin goes further than presenting fantasy; rather, she uses the opportunity to explore states, subjugations of all sorts, insidious hopes, and the delicate power of art in an otherwise unsympathetic environment, among other things.For the most part, I found myself very drawn in and read through these stories with a great deal of pleasure.
Most of the shorter stories here are also less impressive than those that are more expansive, hence 3 vs.
Still a great collection overall.
As with all of Le Guin's work, the writing in Orsinian Tales is exquisite.
Orsinian Tales is well worth reading, but maybe not the place to start with Le Guin.
For all that I love her writing, this collection is mostly very depressing.
Short stories can be cruel like that in their narrow focus, and that is part of why I tend to prefer longer form fiction.
I feel like this collection would improve with a second reading, and I hope that before too long I will read these again, along with Malafrena in the new Complete Orsinia.
I have no idea why people tag this with fantasy or SF though, speculative fiction, maybe, but if the stories had taken place in towns and cities with "real" names, there'd be no way this would ever qualify.
In a way I suspect that is one of the points of the collection, what is SFF but different names?
At least the way Le Guin writes it (no ray gun in hand).
I'm not a huge fan of the collected short stories as a format, but her writing is as poignant as ever, and there are some really beautiful little tales in here.
Just finished reading Le Guin's Orsinian Tales.
I'm not sure what I think of it, actually.
The stories in themselves are well written, interesting -- the first few, in my opinion, are better than the last few.
Or maybe that's the warm day and my lack of focus speaking.
Either way, I really liked Conversations at Night, one of the earlier ones.
It's an interesting idea -- a series of stories about an imaginary European country.
I think she also has a novel based on the country, which might've been more satisfying to me.
Orsinian Tales is just glimpses of a world.
what happened, ursula
I would say that Ursula Le Guin is possibly the greatest living American author. Even when she is writing mainstream fiction :)
The emotions are fierce ("Her sorrow boasted of itself," a son observes of his mother in 'Brothers and Sisters'; "she rose to the occasion like a lark in the morning"), the backdrop is huge (in 'An die Musik', an achingly sad tale of a clerk who writes music in snatches of spare time, the radio whispers of Chamberlain visiting Hitler in Munich), but the drama is quiet and, in many ways, timeless.
This collection of short stories is clumsy by comparison.
One early story (or its narrator, in any case) purports to show that murder is not always from evil; a story toward the end that music transcends the evil of man because it is so useless to them.
She could just as well have put Chamberlain and Hitler in the first story to “prove” that mass murder was sometimes ambiguous, and the wife-murderer in the latter to show that music transcends horror.
It still wouldn’t mean anything, or even be a good story, or anything more than a forced sequence of events.She displays a strong understanding of human nature in Brothers and Sisters, possibly the best work in this collection.
