https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158371.The_Living_is_Easy
Cleo is one of the most despicable characters I have ever had the displeasure of reading about.
This book can be summarized something like this.Once upon a time a devilish child named Cleo was born.
Her sisters had the misfortune of being very innocent and naïve.
She took advantage of them.
Cleo grew up and moved away.
Her sisters started to have normal lives.
Cleo was unhappy about this.
They were too far away from her tentacles.
She hurt them.
They were Cleo's equals in cruelty and heartlessness.
I love a good villain, but Cleo was just too much for me!
I can understand wanting your family to be near you since she hasn't seen them in many years, but the ways she goes about bringing her sisters to Boston is horrible.
Cleo herself is very light as is most of Boston's elite.
She wants to teach her daughter and the children of her sisters to be proud Black children, they are second to no white people.
221-222This novel provides a fascinating look at life in Boston for the Black elite.
Cleo doesn't think she loves her husband, but she takes him for granted.
Have not had a fiction character make me want to pull my eyelashes out in quite awhile but Cleo fixed that! This novel is very different from "The Wedding", which I absolutely loved, but it was still a great read. I wish Dorothy West had written more.
Well, it was a difficult one. Difficult not because of the complexity of the writing nor the storyline, but because of its protagonist, Cleo. Numerous were the times when I found my jaw on the floor due to this character's actions. She is manipulative, deceitful, and most important of all, the queen of liars! And the naivety of some of the other characters was just through the roof. It was a good read, nonetheless.
The premise enticed me to read this book about the daughter of a poor southern sharecropper moving to Boston and longing to fit in with high society. But the unlikable protagonist and her dysfunctional family are tiring.
Cleo Jericho Judson is a misandrous woman who suffers from an extreme case of narcissism.
West’s illustrious writing couldn’t prevent some readers from abandoning the book due to Cleo’s manipulative behavior.
A book written in the 1940’s, set in an affluent black community during the outbreak of WWI, that focuses on the dominating power of one exploitive and entitled woman, felt brand new to me.
Cleo is not written to be admired or loved as a typical matriarch; she is villainous in the way she abuses her family, friends, and pretty much anyone vulnerable enough to let her use them.
In the mid-1990s she published her first new novel in a few decades The Wedding which won acclaim because it’s good, because Oprah took notice, and because it was her first novel in a few decades.This novel came out in the late 1940s and it shares an obvious connection to another novel from that time The Street by Ann Petry.
For example, her next steps are to bring in as many boarders as possible to make her already good deal that much sweeter.From there the novel involves Cleo convincing her sisters to move back in with her and then goes through a series of different mishaps, plots, and events.
Portrait of Cleo, a powerful woman, social climbing in age of discrimination as light-skinned Southern black woman tried to turn her child and her sister's children into proper Bostonians around WWI.
Cleo's terrific determination and energy rivet your attention as she stuffs her house with relatives, meanwhile relegating her husband to the role of meek bread-winner running a banana import business down at Fanueil Hall docks.
West was a lesser-known figure in the Harlem Renaissance who ended her days presiding over a parade of visitors to her house in Martha's Vineyard at the Oak Bluffs enclave.
The main character is an ambitious, greedy woman who will stop at nothing to get what she wants, including lying to her husband and sisters.
She persuades her sisters and their children to leave their husbands, and move in with her and her family.
Her husband is a successful banana merchant, who thinks she has the sisters living with them because they are having financial and family trouble.
I like this book because it has similiarities between the characters and people the author knew.
Like her main character's husband, the author's father was a banana merchant.
So,The Living is Easy by Dorothy West was written in the 1940's, one of few books to be published by black women at the time, and takes place in the beginning of the 20th of century.
She's married to the "black banana king", and through manipulation she gets her sisters and their kids to come and live with her.I thought the book was interesting, it taught me many things about the lives of black women at the turn of the century.
It wasn't the best book I've read, but if you're interested in learning more about women's lives at this time, I do recommend it
It's difficult to like a story when you strongly dislike the main character. Cleo was a horrible, despicable human being. It had the potential to be a well written story, but somehow the author missed the mark. The funny thing with fiction is that although it's not true, it has to be believable and this story wasn't. The only redeemable character was Judy. She was wise beyond her years, thoughtful and had a beautiful heart. Beyond her, every other character was almost laughable. I struggled to finish this book.
Okay, many may find it ironic that this is the most frustrating book I have read from the AA genre, but it is.
Perhaps because this book lulled me into a false sense of security.
With all of the other books I have read from this period and genre I already knew to expect frustration, sadness, and a general dissapointment with American society.
This book deceived me.
I know what you are thinking, "But April, isn't that the point?" ::sniff:: Maybe, but I am so badly scarred that I do not care.
I will now end on that dramatic, or "wild", note.
Cleo is possibly the least sympathetic character I have ever read about. I wouldn't call her a villain. She is far to human to be a mere villain. But she is selfish and manipulative and blindly ambitious. The story is unlike any I have ever read. I didn't even realize this time period for blacks existed in American history. It is a well written book and my distaste for Cleo does not detract from my enjoyment of the tale. In fact, I think that it is rather the point.
(FROM JACKET)"The Living is Easy" tells the story of Cleo Judson, daughter of southern sharecroppers and wife of 'Black Banana King' Bart Judson. Cleo seeks to recreate her original family by urging her sisters and their children to live with her, while rearing her daughter to be a member of Boston's black elite.
I truly enjoy the writings of Dorothy West. I discovered her writings when I was vacationing in Martha's Vineyard. I gained an appreciation for the black elite in the 1950's through reading her writings.
The anti-heroine - West created a character that you may feel morally obligated to hate, and yet, it's not that easy. I enjoyed reading the book; however, I also admit that I have forgotten most details in a matter of weeks. Therefore, only three stars from me.
This book was really intersting providing a glimpse into living after the Harlem Renaissance in Boston. The language is old-school and it's sometimes tough reading about the crazy classism/racism and deception. But, very entertaining.
A most fascinating narrative about the rising middle class of African Americans who had moved to Boston as part of the Great Migration from the south. West is a member of the Harlem Renaissance group, one of several outstanding women authors. More later . . . .
My feelings toward the main character are ambivalent, so maybe I should give it a higher rating. It is interesting when an author can create a central character who is sympathetic and loathsome...
Muddled storyline. Meh.
A bit disjointed. I'm still of Cleo's motivation behind all of her actions. A very complex character.
I only read chapter one of part one for African American Writers ENG 338, but it was wonderful and I hope to finish the book soon!
While she was a good writer, the story moved to slowly for me.
Would read it again!
Great read. Lots of great discussion
True hustling at its best.
Cleo Judson is an interesting character. This tale of her life is a fascinating look at her time and place in life.
fv
It was well-written, but it was hard to read about Cleo ruining everyone else's lives for her own gain.
This is one of my favorite books. It doesn't get as much attention as The Wedding, but I love it.
