https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/945423.The_Quest_For_Community
Written in 1952, The Quest for Community is amongst the great pillars of conservative thought along with works such as The Conservative Mind and Democracy In American.
To try to give any sort of critical synopsis of Nisbet's magnum opus is overwhelming.
The historical nature of the narrative takes the reader on a journey inside the minds of some of the most renown thinkers in modern Western thought.
Of all the writings in cultural criticism I've laid eyes upon, this will rank amongst the most elite, lucid, and insightful.
It is the work of the reader to decide if 65 years after its first publishing, The Quest for Community still rings true.
Nisbet's classic was first published in 1953, but remains highly relevant 65 years later. He examines the nature of community, its history in the west vis-a-vis individualism, and traces its prospects for the future.Though some parts are slow, this book is necessary. In the tradition of de Tocqueville, Nisbet--unlike most contemporaries--is willing to examine both the virtues and the limitations of democracy. The sections outlining the democratic natures of Communist and Nazi totalitarianism are indispensable.Highly recommended.
Nisbet’s analysis examines the problem of community decline from a sociological perspective, a view that brings fresh insight into the 21st Century.Nisbet defines the problem of community as the decline of the functional and psychological significance of small social groups and associations, namely the family, civic associations, and other organizations (such as the Church and guilds) that have had a mediatorial role in human social, economic, and political relationships.
These social groups performed indispensible functions in the life of medieval society, functions that are only possible in an environment where centralized power was relatively weak.Everything changes in the 16th Century, when we witness the rise of the autonomous individual who becomes more steadily detached from the historical institutions that gave meaning and social context to life.
The paperback I read was called Community and Power, but this was the only one I was able to add and was, I suppose, the original title.
The thesis of this book was that leviathan-like governments, starting with the French Revolution, attempted to replace community with the comforts of an intrusive state, creating some kind of unmoored individual who could easily be controlled.
Clearly, Nisbet wants us to reclaim community.
In a way, he's seen as conservative, but at what point does this become revolutionary in a world where conservatism is remaining on the nipple of the state.
I'm sure he'd read this.
A worthwhile read. While Nisbet's analysis can and should be challenged at points, his major point that individualism and Statism walk merrily together is needed.
An insightful book on the topic of freedom, community, and government.
His point is basically that intermediate institutions between the individual and the state, such as family, church, guild, and other associations, are necessary for freedom.
The pursuit of individual freedom from society leads to totalitarian government.
It is a rich idea which he develops in detail in the book and which should be given consideration by all those who seek freedom in the modern age.
“No theory of freedom in our age will be either effective or relevant that does not recognize the present centrality of the quest for community” (p.
There is every reason to regard the State in history as, to use a phrase von Gierke applied to Rousseau’s doctrine of the General Will, ‘a process of permanent revolution/ The conflict between the central power of the political State and the whole set of functions and authorities contained in church, family, gild, and local community has been, I believe, the main source of those dislocations of social structure and uprootings of status which lie behind the problem of community in our age."The writing is bland yet insightful.
But, it is right before us with our neighbors, local towns, churches, families, friends.
The premise of the book was certainly worth thinking about.
His analysis of how democracy can lead to totalitarianism was insightful.
Totalitarianism is caused by centering all power in the state, so that the "will of the people" becomes an excuse for abuse of freedoms.
I fully concur with his conclusions about the need for intervening social groups or institutions between the people and the state (family, church, labor union, guild, benevolent society, etc.) to ensure freedom for the citizens.
If all of this is not clear, then read the book.
Worth a read, but not written well enough to draw me back for a second perusal.
Nisbet, writing in 1953, provides a powerful framework for understanding the power of the state and its relation to civil society since the French Revolution: as the state has grown, it has reduced and often tried to replace the smaller, often local associations (churches, local communities, families, etc.).
Two of them, by David Bosworth and Jeanne Heffernan Schindler, point out some important weaknesses as well.
Bosworth notes that not enough attention is paid to economic and technological change because of the focus on the role of the state, and Schindler presses for a more solid definition of human beings, marriage, and the church based in Catholic teaching.
Any attempt of mine at a "review" of this book would end in utter failure. I can only say that this book is fantastic - powerful and eye-opening. Nisbet traces the rise of centralized society in the western world out from its medieval past. The entire book is noteworthy but I found Chapter Six, in which he demonstrates in the philosophies of Bodin, Hobbes and Rosseau the continuing shift in societal philosophy from the 1500s-1700s especially fascinating. It's a remarkable book that I just cannot give anything but 5-stars to.
This book may have been written decades ago, but it's still extraordinarily trenchant for today's conversations. It's a story of individualism and how that affects our view of large institutions (particularly government), and I think that Lisbet's argument helps bring a lot of clarity to the nature of public discourse today. It is well worth reading and I believes provides an unorthodox perspective to how we view society.
It's a thinker. One of my favorites.
None
It took me a very long time to get through this book.
