https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37390.The_Pat_Hobby_Stories
J. Eckleburg” or readers of Tender Is the Night.When Fitzgerald wrote the Pat Hobby stories, he had hit rock bottom and was looking at his once glowing literary reputation through the rear-view mirror.
He was working in Hollywood, writing screenplays and putting the finishing touches on pickling his liver.
The Hobby stories were a satirical indictment of the soulless, factory-like process that the Hollywood studios used to make movies.
All seventeen short stories were featured monthly in Esquire magazine and are included here.Pat Hobby is a forty-nine year old writer, whose glory days were in the silent movies.
Now, desperately in need of a studio writing job, he pursues a drunken movie director and obtains some secret information about a crucial film script idea.
But death and desperation make things even more problematic than usual for Pat.Episode 2/3: Teamed with Genius: Studio head Jack Berners calls hack writer Pat Hobby into his office.
Episode 3/3: Pat Hobby Does His Bit: It is a difficult business, in Hollywood, to borrow money from an actor on a set during the shooting of a moving picture.
But Pat Hobby is desperate.
Εδώ έχουμε να κάνουμε με μια συλλογή διηγημάτων, που παρουσιάζουν έναν ξεπεσμένο σεναριογράφο του Χόλιγουντ, τον Πατ Χόμπυ, που στα σαράντα εννιά του χρόνια προσπαθεί με τον έναν ή τον άλλο τρόπο να βγάλει κάποια δολάρια, ενθυμούμενος πάντα την παλιά του δόξα.
Οι ιστορίες μπορούν να διαβαστούν με οποιαδήποτε σειρά και είναι σαν να γράφτηκαν για διαφορετικά περιοδικά, χωρίς να υπάρχει αρχή, μέση και τέλος στα βάσανα του πρωταγωνιστή.
Ο Φιτζέραλντ μέσω των συγκεκριμένων διηγημάτων θίγει τα κακώς κείμενα του Χόλιγουντ της εποχής του και αναδεικνύει μια άλλη εικόνα της μεγάλης αυτής βιομηχανίας θεάματος.
Scott Fitzgerlad book three stars, but I just "liked it." In style and composition, these stories remind me of Education of Hyman Kaplan.
He needs to make a living, and as Gingrich defensively states, Fitzgerald did make his living from writing, so writing for money wasn't a criminal offense as so many people make it out to be in his case.
Some of them end in odd places, and some of them probably could have used more editing, but Gingrich was pushing them out, and Fitzgerald wasn't working on them enough before sending them out.
Easy to read, and a riotous laugh, these short stories by Scott Fitzgerald focus on an in/out work writer at the time of the Golden Age of film baked Pat Hobby.
I LOVED how some of my favourite classic stars are woven into the book including Pat spending the night on a frilly couch made for Claudette Colbert, Pat trying desperately to make contact with Ronald Colman so that he can show an American tourist his house, and Pat trying to title a script 'It Happened One Morning' so as not to plagiarise the well known film of a similar name.
As far as I can tell the last version was published a long fourteen years ago and the stories have been pretty much left to languish in obscurity.This is a shame.These tales concern an unsuccessful writer in – what is now called – ‘The Golden Age of Hollywood’.
It makes a change to see the studio portrayed by someone for whom this is just a job at a conveyer belt, something that must have been a reality for all the technical guys, make-up artists and – yes – writers.Fitzgerald’s Hollywood years are normally seen as a dark epilogue to what had been a glittering career.
Since the advent of the talkies, hack screen writer Pat Hobby has fallen on hard times and hard liquor.1/3: Now, desperately in need of a studio writing job, he pursues a drunken movie director and obtains some secret information about a crucial film script idea.
But death and desperation make things even more problematic than usual for Pat.2/3: Studio head Jack Berners calls hack writer Pat Hobby into his office.
His old jalopy might not seem worth saving but, because of Hollywood's great distances, it's an indispensable tool of the writer's trade.
Fitzgerald wrote the Pat Hobby stories during the last two years of his life, which were unhappily (save for his mistress, Sheilah Graham) spent in Hollywood.
Pat Hobby is a washed-up, alcoholic screenwriter, in some ways a caricature of Fitzgerald himself in his final stage.
In a different age, these stories might have made for a sitcom, with Hobby almost prevailing in every episode, only to flounder and have his name shouted by the kingpin -- "Ho-BBY!" -- just before Hobby turns to the camera and shrugs.
A hilarious collection of short stories by F.
Scott Fitzgerald about a once successful Hollywood writer with a big house and a leaky pool, now reduced to living in a cheap Los Angeles apartment and hustling the studios for piece work.
Pat Hobby was big in the 20s, dictating movie scenarios and fond of seeing his name up on screen.
Give these seventeen short stories a read and enjoy watching the train wrecks pile up.
Una sorpresa. Siempre pensé que Fitzgerald era sólo "El Gran Gatsby" y tenía un prejuicio sobre su aparente frivolidad, pero luego me encontré con la buenísima: “Cartas a mi hija” y después este libro y puedo decir que estaba equivocada totalmente. En estas historias hay mucho patetismo, muchas bromas sobre el trabajo de guionista en Hollywood que imagino no han envejecido nada y sobre todo, mucha compasión por el protagonista y los demás personajes.
Scott on the rocks.
Litt som å lese Donald.
(Fitzgerald says "Pat was at 'the end of his resources' --though this term is too ominous to describe a fairly usual condition in his life.") The stories are so short that the resolutions often feel rushed to me, either muddled as in "Pat Hobby and Orson Welles" or forced as in "Pat Hobby, Putative Father." I preferred the stories that deviate from the get-rich-but-fail formula, like "Fun in an Artist's Studio," in which a characteristically chauvinistic Pat is sketched by an artistic princess (not in the nude, he's repeatedly warned).
Fitzgerald nurtured his little demons thoroughly but in spite of the bonds they put around him, he still practiced his art.
Maybe his writing is all the more brilliant because he wrote "in spite of." He supported himself and Zelda for twenty years with his writing.
Even though at the end of his life, his day job that maintained his life style and paid for Zelda's very expensive mental illness was being a hack script writer in Hollywood.
This is Fitzgerald's last published work before he died in 1940.
These stories were written near the end of Fitzgerald's too short life. And even though the overall quality of these stories reflect his fading vitality, they still contain flashes of the old Fitzgerald brilliance--bits of dialogue that are perfect, humorous irony that makes you chuckle or at least smile, crisp pacing... (And that's why I can't resist giving the book 5 stars.)Pat Hobby is an over-the-hill screenwriter who is down on his luck. He kind of reflects Fitzgerald own condition during his last years.
Yeah, I suppose at a stretch one could see Hobby's constant angling for position and preferment as another, albeit debased form of man's longing for the infinite...but not since Paul Weller's solo career have I encountered a once-great artist's work in which it was so painfully clear that their spark had gone out.
It's the tragedy of Fitzgerald's great stories replayed as low and bitter farce, a protagonist who's a vicious parody of Scott's earlier American heroes being put through the cycles of hope and disappointment which characterise the bleakest end of British sitcom.
But he still had sufficient way with words, and the stories were so short, that I couldn't abandon it either.
Cu carticica asta, Fitzgerald dovedeste ca avea si umor, plus o stiinta exacta a autoderiziunii. Dincolo de aceste aspecte, raman niste proze scurte de vacanta, simple, care starnesc rasul, dar un ras incarcat de umbra. 3/5
Two nights ago, already with a small stack in my hand at my usual Friday night hangout--the bookstore--I spied a copy of The Pat Hobby Stories by F.
By 1939 he was in Hollywood with moderate success working on scripts, trying to write the next great novel and publishing these Pat Hobby Stories in Esquire magazine for $150 each.
There's no doubt that Pat Hobby, the bumbling washed up Hollywood script writer is Fitzgerald's literary doppelgänger.
The stories 'Pat Hobby, Putative Father', 'The Homes of the Stars' and 'A Patriotic Short' demonstrate some of this (especially the final rewrite draft of 'A Patriotic Short' included in the book).
A mature Fitzgerald at his most refined and exacting.
В края на 30‘-те години Холивуд става привлекателна дестинация за много писатели.
Между тях са Антъни Пауъл, Натаниел Уест и Олдъс Хъксли.
Обетованата земя обаче не е това, което много от тях си представят.
Занаятът на сценариста, притиснат от безпощадната машина за пари, се оказва коренно различен от този на романиста, потънал в тишината и спокойствието на кабинета си.Фицджералд – литературна звезда от едно изминало десетилетие – се опитва едновременно да стане част от това ново бъдеще на екрани и движещи се картинки и да осигури добър университет за дъщеря си и санаториум за съпругата си Зелда, чието психично здраве продължава да се разпада.
As I already hinted above, Pat Hobby doesn't have a whole lot of moral scruples – he steals other people's movie ideas without a second thought, hoping that he might write a script out of it; and he generally tries to arrange things in a way that he always has a little money without going to the trouble of working for it.But it's hard (or perhaps impossible) to be this cruel, because this book – just like all the works of Fitzgerald I know – is in fact very-very sad.
Lots of great lines throughout about being a failed writer and a failure in general so I'll select one: Pat was at "the end of his resources" - though this term is too ominous to describe a fairly usual condition in his life.And this book has aged well, very well, thanks to home entertainment.
Fresh as that olive you dropped there right now in that dirty martini y'all are drinking.Some of the scenarios are super-familiar - can't quite place my finger on when/where - but I'm certain some of Fitzgerald's ideas for Hobby's misadventures were plagiarized in some sitcom, somewhere.The twists aren't O.Henry, but, by God, they're bitterly funny as any lemon twist of fate put forth on, oh, say, King of Queens.
povestiri amuzante despre pad hobby, scenarist falit, alcoolic și dezorganizat, trâind din faima de acum 20 de ani când colabora des cu marii regizori ai hollywoodului.
în prezent e mai degrabă vagabond printre studiori, pariind toți banii pe cursele de cai, împrumutând de peste tot bani și mici favoruri.
e un volum simpatic, chiar dacă personajul central pare previzibil de la un capăt la altul.
însă merită citită, mai ales că pat hobby pare să anunțe unele personaje de mai târziu ale lui charles bukowsky.de menționat că toate povestirile au apărut în esquire, revistă care publica și pe hemingway, huxley, tom wolfe sau norman mailer.
ce revistă!!!
This was an overall ordinary book, except for this:"Elanor was terrified. But the same spirit that had inspired 'I'd do anything to get in the movies', kept her standing there_thought she felt invisible fingers reaching forth to drag her back to Boise. She had been intending to run_ hard and fast. The hard-boiled doorman and the tall stranger had crystallized her feelings that Pat was 'rather simple'... "Doesn't it remind you of some one ?
These stories were written for quick cash by Fitzgerald at the very end of his life and suffer a little for having a dashed off feel. Still, the picture of a past his prime and knows it Hollywood screenwriter, although comic, has a lot of poignancy given what we know of Fitzgerald's circumstances at the time.
Fitzgerald apparently wrote these stories when he was low on cash, based in part on Fitzgerald's own experiences as a down-and-out screenwriter. Written for Esquire magazine, the stories lack artistic depth and quality. They are fun short stories, but, as with many of Fitzgerald's short stories they deeply lack the artistic merit found in his novels.
Full of arch humor about old Hollywood. Both tragic and funny and slightly surreal like a lot of good stories about the Industry can be. A great uncle to Tolkin/Altman's The Player. The story "Pat Hobby and Orson Welles" is perfect.
Antologia de histórias simples sobre o mundo de um "looser" típico de Hollywood. Ler um conto é ler todos os 17 que compõem o livro. A fórmula é sempre a mesma, apesar de divertida e agradável de se ler.
Un agréable souvenir de lecture.
Infinitely readable and quite funny but just the 3 stars.
