https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40940205-tribe
He replied (although I don't know how he got through the privacy settings and blocks) some more troll stuff and that I was wrong, bad etc.
But I should have written how did he know what Junger 'really' meant?
Actually I should have kittenised him, always drives trolls hair-tearing insane._______Junger has his head in the clouds about Native American tribes.
He ignores the fact that each tribe had a different culture and a great many were warlike and peace was often kept between different tribes because their methods of torture were so extreme.
A nostalgic and masculist view on group behaviour and PTSD.
Junger promotes a more tribal lifestyle and he thinks we all need hardship, catastrophes and war in order to connect with others.
I think he confuses cause and effect.
While it seems true that a tight-knit community can be preventive or therapeutic in case of hardship; war and other tragedies will surely generate more trauma.
I could hardly finish this short book and he certainly didn't convince me.
Life is more complex, as are trauma's.
The book is thought provoking, but Junger forgot to mention that tribes don't have libraries nor bookstores!
Proves the adage that good things can come in small packages.
In this short book, not a wasted word, Junger combines memoir, journalism and scholarly writing to give us a book that makes one think about where our society has been and where it is heading.
Tackles the tough subjects of the rising rate of mental illness and PTSD that many in our society are experiencing.
Starting at the beginning with the Native Americans and their society that celebrated communal living.
Warning us of the selfishness and lack of connection that our way of living has fostered and the results that many continue to live with.
“Robert Frost famously wrote that home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in. The word ‘tribe’ is far harder to define, but a start might be the people you feel compelled to share the last of your food with…This book is about why that sentiment is such a rare and precious thing in modern society, and how the lack of it has affected us all. It’s about what we can learn from tribal societies about loyalty and belonging and the eternal quest for meaning…”- Sebastia
The word ‘tribe’ is far harder to define, but a start might be the people you feel compelled to share the last of your food with…This book is about why that sentiment is such a rare and precious thing in modern society, and how the lack of it has affected us all.
It’s about what we can learn from tribal societies about loyalty and belonging and the eternal quest for meaning…”-	Sebastian Junger, TribeTribe is like the best bar conversation you’ve ever had.
Like most bar conversations, especially if you’ve had a few, Tribe initially feels deep and profound.
That humans have evolved a high order of altruism associated with our tribal social nature which leads us to be willing to take great risks to save another member of the tribe.
In specific examples like the Blitz of daily bombing of London by the Luftwaffe, the Bosnia civil war, or Nova Scotian miners of Springhill trapped underground, all sense of class and racial distinctions disappear, and a special form of teamwork emerges that expands upon our tribal nature.
In the chapter, War Makes you an Animal, I struggle to understand if Junger believes that the “tribe” society is an animal behavior, or a human one.
By writing, “[altruistic choices] are profound acts of selflessness that distinguish us from all other mammals, including the higher primates we are so closely related to,” and that “risking male lives to save female lives makes enormous evolutionary sense,” Junger claims that it is the evolutionary course that pushed humans toward acts of heroism, as we have evolved past our close relations towards greater group unity.
In Tribe, Sebastian Junger questions this notion by looking at, among other examples, why colonial Americans left behind the burgeoning settlements to live with the tribal Indians; why, as technological advances have sped up over time (and accelerate still faster today), we are all “connected” and yet more and more of us feel isolated, depressed and unsatisfied with life in the Information Age; and why comfort is killing us and, rather than avoiding it, hardship and intense trauma like war can be the greatest and most cherished experiences life can offer.Loved it.
The book opens with a thought provoking fact: in early America, there were numerous instances of white people joining primitive, native Indian societies - but zero instances of the opposite, because "the intensely communal nature of an Indian tribe held an appeal that the material benefits of Western civilization couldn’t necessarily compete with."The book also argues that the wealth we enjoy in modern society is isolating, against the grain of millions of years of our evolution, and can lead to depression, because our happiness is in large part rooted in a need to feel connected to others.
and, The beauty and the tragedy of the modern world is that it eliminates many situations that require people to demonstrate a commitment to the collective good.and, As modern society reduced the role of community, it simultaneously elevated the role of authority.It's at this point that Junger tries to tie the concept of tribalism to military veterans specifically those with PTSD.
In these and other cases the author quotes people who lived through these horrific events who expressed nostalgia for the spirit of group common purpose that prevailed at the time.What those events have in common with aboriginal tribal life is the low differences in status and wide spread sharing of resources.
A close-knit group of fellow warriors returning to a highly individualised and fractured civilian world is “deeply brutalising to the human spirit”.The author then explains reasons why American life is probably the most difficult society in the world for a combat veteran to return to.
Over and over, veterans are expressing similar sentiments and reactions not only about their war experiences but also their feelings of isolation and their seeming inability to resume their civilian lives when returning home from deployment.
So how does this discussion of the evolution of the modern society relate to returning veterans and how they experience their homecoming and even how they deal with the traumas experienced during war?
Although I agree with Sebastian Junger's characterization of modern society and all of its inequities, I found it difficult to connect his description of society with how veterans are experiencing trauma, war and coming home.
Sebastian Junger poses that tribal societies had a strong sense of community and fairness because these values were necessary to survive.
He poses that while tribal culture buffered its members against catastrophic loss (illness, death, violent weather) its sense of community was protection from what today we call PTSD.
For instance, the introductory example was that colonials captured by Native Americans opted to stay with the tribe when freed, while Indians captured by settlers always wanted to return to their tribe.
Reasons Native Americans would want to return to the tribe could have been experiences with racism, preference for hunting vs.
"The economic and marketing forces of modern society have engineered an environment...that maximize[s] consumption at the long-term cost of well being."- Brandon Hidaka, quoted in Sebastian Junger, TribeIn a series of four essays that grew out of an article Junger wrote in 2015 for Vanity Fair called How PTSD Became A Problem Far Beyond The Battlefield, Junger explores how we can learn from tribal societies about loyalty, belonging, the quest for meaning, and strategies for surviving the communal issues that the modern world thrusts on us.
This is a short meditation on PTSD, where front-line troops and other veterans have a difficult time reintegrating into society - that war, for all of its hardships, creates a feeling of belonging and absolutely unbreakable bonds, and that returning to contemporary society leads to feelings of incredible isolation.how many.
Likewise, war veterans are not the only people with PTSD - the idea that PTSD comes from losing a brotherhood or being forced out of a community is not the case for victims of assault.
Likewise, veterans and all others who have seen conflict absolutely need a community to support them, and we need to understand how a society of material abundance has grown so detached from the endless wars in far away places.
When I saw Junger’s short book on the subject, I thought it might give me a more in-depth viewpoint on the subject, which it did.Junger tells of Benjamin Franklin’s 1753 observation that white prisoners of Native American Tribes when recused would run back to the Native American Tribe they had been with.
He claims we need to bond together in villages, groups and country; he claims that would reduce crime and mental illness.Sebastian Junger is a journalist and has been in many wars over the years.
Junger narrates his own book.
There are many great books that I cannot wait to introduce to my customers - but then there are other books that I become obsessed with and so passionate for that I need to put it into every single person's hand that walks into my bookstore.
Sebastian Junger's new book "Tribe" is one of those books.
It is historical, psychological, anthropological and personal.
I will think about this book for a very long time.
Isn't that what a great book should do?
A quirky little book about a big topic, much bigger than vets and PTSD, and American Indian tribes.
Our entire society is sick because there's a lot of suicide and evil people get away with their assorted crimes.
I think "Tribe" is worthwhile as a think piece because the issue of balance between old/new, natural/artificial, happy/wealthy, citizen/consumer, caring/tech, etc.
How can we be safe and happy?
We should decrease suicides if we can.
But I don't want to go back to constant war and peril to accomplish that.
If we have to have overseas conscription, for example, does it have to be for war?
This tiny book packs a lot of informations and experiences. What does it mean to be part of something bigger ... society.... tribes.... the army... its various units ... how soldiers act in war and how they act in peace... are we making use of the veterans that are out there... how to deal with PTSD... how war is good for the cohesion of the community and how natural disasters bring people together and the notion of class vanishes.
He neglects to note that fear is what keeps tribes together, and fear might be helpful in the moment, but it isn’t particularly a great way to live, or even a successful way of life.
Junger fails to note that with the loss of individualism comes incredibly painful conformity.
Junger, I notice, doesn’t bring up living in Japan, where the suicide and depression rates are incredibly high due to the stress of having to live up to the community or tribe.
Junger makes a wonderful point: that we need to come together as a community, take care of each other, be a tribe.
Governmental and economic systems are conflated time and again; there is no questioning of nationalism, even as there's a fundamental (if wholly general) questioning of political and societal structures; there's no questioning of some pretty broad gender role assumptions; and there is, overall, a tendency towards stream of consciousness criticisms that come back, time and again, to the ultimate point of the book, which is tangentially related to PTSD, but really has to do with Junger's concerns about the atomization of modern American society.
All of that said, those very weaknesses make the book an excellent jumping off point for a broad range of relevant current debates and, therefore, worth reading.
The age old cliche that history repeats itself is being realized in today's society and Junger presents many examples of this with warrior re-integration into their communities following traumatic conflict throughout history and their varied success rates at combating Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
Junger documents many of the thoughts today's veterans struggle with upon returning home to an individualist society that continues tear itself apart.
Tribe is a quick read that makes one contemplate many of today's issues and the ancient driving forces of evolution that are the root of our two parties.
Appreciated this read's concept of solidarity as it underscores and helps me hone thoughts I've had about topics like the boom of social media in our more isolated existence, young men's susceptibility to recruitment into gangs/terror orgs, and my own contributions to community and country.
Does modern society require too many specialized skills?
(Author makes point the military is one of few/only spaces in today's society where humans don't compete but rather rely on each other, like our million years of ancestry.) This read would've packed more punch without the underlining, liberal bend -- arguments are often more persuasive when made from no apparent viewpoint.
An expanded version of an article that first appeared in Vanity Fair titled "How PTSD Became a Problem Far Beyond the Battlefield." Junger has matured as one of the finest American reporters in print.
Thinking of him as "the Perfect Storm guy" is as reductive as thinking of Jon Krakauer only as "that guy that wrote Into Thin Air." In this work, Junger looks at community, tribal behaviors, and issues facing veterans while briefly weaving in personal experiences that help connect us to this work of history, anthropology and psychology along with social issues.
My only criticism of this book is that he didn't expand it further.
Wow. By far the best non fiction I've read so far this year (2016). Timely. Engaging. In my opinion, his best work yet. I'm tempted to complain that it is too short, but the point gets hammered home effectively. It should be required school reading. I'll be thinking about this for a while....
I won this as a Goodreads giveaway.*Loved this book. I found it completely fascinating and am looking forward to reading more from Sebastian Junger.
They miss the emotional closeness of their unit members, the thrill of surviving near-death (yes, it is addictive and an incredible high) and the feeling of the importance of their work and technical skills, and the feeling they are literally fighting for their country - because they were, and did.They come back to the shallow petty ugly reality of us, gentle reader.Do your war-zone veteran a favor, and offer this book as a gift - after you have read it.
Back in the 90s, my father said email and the Internet were making people unable to communicate with each other.
This was before smart phones and social media.
But if you've ever agreed that we are becoming more distanced and less comfortable with face-to-face communication, this book is a required read.
Junger looks at the innate tribal nature of humans and how it affects us during war time and peace time.
The difficulty, of course, being that many societies have become less tribal and more individually driven.
He also draws insightful parallels between tribal societies, war, PTSD, and rampage killings.
I wish there were ideas here that were new to me, but it’s the same ideas I’ve held true for years. If it was new, than maybe it wouldn’t be obvious— and maybe it wouldn’t be true. But it’s true. It’s obvious. It’s Wendell Berry and Charles Bowden and Joseph Campbell and Barry Lopez and on and on, every other voice who has said for years what Junger’s saying: we’re bleeding at the roots.Excellent, succinct, damning, necessary book.
This book floored me. I found myself highlighting passage over passage, having to set the book aside and reflect. Before starting, I was worried that this book would focus too heavily on soldiers, and although that certainly was a focal point, the narrative was expansive and evaluated many other "tribes" as well.I finished this book feeling nostalgic for a community I've never been a part of but would someday like to.
Loved it. A well-written rumination on the basic human need for belonging and communal living. And how our fractured, alienating and isolating modern society opposes our tribal instincts which can lead to very unfortunate circumstances.
