https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19001.A_Perfect_Spy
In A Perfect Spy, Le Carre's writing rises easily to the level of the 20th Century's greatest authors.
After the death of his father, Magnus Pym, debonair, flawless British spy, has disappeared with the station’s burn box.
Rick loves his son, and his son loves him, and it is painfully clear how this criminally self-absorbed and self-deluding narcissist destroys "the natural humanity" in little Magnus, turning him into the perfect spy of the title.
It is also surprisingly sexy, as the young Pym navigates between lust and yearning, all things we don't expect from John Le Carre.
In a story about multiple fathers, why can't it be both an ode to Dickens and Proust?'A Perfect Spy' is a novel about deception (but what spy novel isn't about deception?), memory, love and loyalty.
It is a story about the sins of fathers and the absolutions of sons.
It is about a character who is on the run without ever leaving a room; a room filled with hidden cabinets, burn boxes, and years and years of secrets and conflict; a room that holds a perfect spy who is running from his past, running from his present, and running from his future.I've said this before, but I don't ever get tired of preaching it: le Carré is a novelist that WILL be read in 100 years and perhaps in 500 years because he is absolutely tapped into the global zeitgeist of the modern man and the modern nation-state.
Much hinges on the cagey relationship between British ‘espiocrats’ (to use one of le Carré's later coinages) and their CIA counterparts, and the author has a lot of fun contrasting the well-spoken, supercilious clarity of the Brits with the managerial jargon of the Americans:‘…the ah Agency position overall on this thing – at this important meeting, and at this moment in time – is that we have here an accumulation of indicators from a wide range of sources on the one hand, and new data on the other which we consider pretty much conclusive in respect of our unease.’(This is an affliction that has long since spread to this side of the Atlantic.) At moments like these, I felt inclined to give the book the benefit of the doubt, and was willing myself to like it more than I did.
I picked up this book since it was on a list of most influential novels according to one of my issues of Mental Floss magazine, but I just couldn't force myself to get through it.
I read about 100 pages of some of the most impenetrable prose, full of confusing switches in point of view, setting, and time period before I set it aside.
The army of characters that dropped in like paratroopers made it hard to keep the names straight and at some point, I stopped trying.
Years ago I read this and gave it 5*****. I tried to re-read it (it's included reading for our Oxford course next summer), but found it disjointed and extremely difficult to follow, with little in the way of cohesive plot. Occasional paragraphs/pages were full of tension and beautifully written but there were not enough of these. I put it aside after 142 pages.
Baroness Weber has asked Rick to help her recover a treasure trove secreted by her late husband before the war and Magnus is sent to accompany her.
Recalled to London and haunted by his past, Magnus, under a false name, takes secret lodgings with Miss Dubber (Peggy Ashcroft) in his old childhood neighbourhood in Devon.Episode 6: While on a family holiday to Corfu, Tom (Graham McGrath) witnesses a meeting between his father and Axel.
Axel passes a message to Mary offering his assistance in tracking the missing Magnus down.Members of Magnus’s Czechoslovakian networks start to go silent.
This was a brilliant story. At first I wasn't going to give it any stars because it seemed more like a stream of consciousness story and not a novel as we know it. But as I got into the story and its flow, I got sucked in. And this is a stand alone story. It has nothing to do with Smiley and The Circus. So if you have never read a LeCarre story before, this is a good introduction to his writing style.
Magnus Pym, intelligence agent for the British, has gone to London after the news of his father Rick's death.
He wants to leave a record of the truth, especially for his son, Tom. What he ends up with is the life of Magnus Pym from his childhood on, reflecting especially on his relationship with his father Rick, the ultimate con man, for whom the con never stops, not even with his only son.
While different from other novels by LeCarre, it is still a book that will totally absorb you from start to finish.
I'd recommend this to people who like LeCarre's work, as well as those who like stories that focus on the relationships between fathers and sons.
I got through half-way in this book and had to drop it.
What did it for me were the long narratives of flashbacks into the main character's past which I suppose were meant to unveil gradually to the reader who the main character really was and the ultimate motives behind his actions.
Since this is my first book by Le Carre I'm guessing not all his works try to use this approach and he was simply experimenting with it- which writers should be encouraged to do.A cold war espionage thriller is meant to be thrilling- this wasn't.
There are two intertwined narratives in the book, one describing the main character's background and childhood (which, as has been noted, shares many details with the author's own childhood), the other describing his contemporary dilemma as a spy on the run.
The sections dealing with the character's childhood are badly over-written and could have been chopped by 150-200 pages - it is great that Le Carre experienced some therapeutic catharsis from getting some of the nasty details of his childhood out on paper, as he has noted in interviews, it just doesn't make for a particularly good spy novel, and the idea in itself is a good one, but it needed to be mercilessly edited.

Philip Roth, himself, claims on the book's cover that it is "the best English novel since the war".
I find that hard to believe, but I can understand why Roth would like it.
It is structurally sound and Magnus Pym, the perfect spy, is a memorable character.
It is a long book (700pages), jumping back and forth in time, lots of characters and a narrator who, somewhat schizophrenically, never refers to himself using the first-person singular pronoun.
What I'm trying to get across is that it is not easy to read A Perfect Spy and it is all too seldom enjoyable.
I found this novel formidable. As far as I know, the author wrote it based on Kim Philby's life who later defected to the then USSR as a senior citizen there till his death. The title also reminds me of 'A Perfect Crime' I read in an anthology, a book I borrowed from the College of Education Library, BKK.
Hmmm. Will have to think about this. Since I knew the ending and the book is long, an element of disaffection. Very rich in character, and in description... literature, not genre, to be sure (as Philip Roth had it).
It is part of le Carré's move away from writing genre thrillers that really began with Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy.Magnus Pym is quite a senior operational officer, who has been running networks of British spies in Czechoslovakia for many years.
The qualities that Magnus inherits from him are the charm and the ability to put together and carry off a successful lie, at least for a time.
This, and his allegiance to himself over any patriotic sentiment makes him a perfect spy in the eyes of Axel.Basically, if you dislike Rick, as I did, the first two thirds of the novel will be heavy going.
From BBC Radio 4:1/3.
Betrayal can only happen if you love.' So says Magnus Pym, the spy of the title; and he has betrayed a lot in his life - countries, friends and lovers.
When Magnus disappears after his father's funeral MI6 launches an urgent manhunt to prevent his defection.
When Magnus Pym disappears after his father's funeral MI6 launches an urgent manhunt to prevent his defection.
But Pym is on a search of his own to solve the central mystery of his life - what made him the perfect spy.
Other parts are played by the cast.Director: Bruce YoungBBC Scotland.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b08wmwyy
As the novel reveals piece by piece Magnus's lie has been nothing but one large training ground for a future spy starting with his childhood under his conman father Ricky to years in Switzerland as a side effect of one of his father's scams that leads to him meeting his two mentors in the world of Cold War espionage right through to the then present dy.
In chapters that virtually alternate across the 590 pages the novel switches between the present where Brotherhood and Mary search for Pym plus try to cope with what he has done and the past as Pym in letters to his son Tom (and in an oddly detached third person perspective as well) recounts his childhood and rise in British intelligence.
A strange hybrid. The sections of the book concerning Pym's disappearance and the effect it has on his family and colleagues are good solid stuff. Unfortunately too much of the book is taken up with Pym's terribly over-written autobiography, that just goes on and on and on and on and on and on. Excruciating.
The best John le Carre, the making of a perfect spy-- a boy who grows up with a conman father, who wants something to believe in, but also, has all the skills necessary. Brilliant beyond belief.
Like all his books, intriguing, sometimes complicated, but very well written and un-put-downable
We are then treated to passages of Pym's own writing, which is something of a memoir, toggling confusingly between first person and third person (for reasons that only really become clear later) as he recounts his father's youth, and then his own.
This is pretty much the pace of the novel thereafter--passages of Pym's delirious memoir, which he is writing from his hideout by the English sea, interspersed with passages detailing the fall-out from his disappearance.
I should say, I just reread this book.
I reread them because, genre aside, he's such a masterful stylist of the English language.The book's metaphors (shared with his other works) are also just right.
The spy as "close observer" is the reader--as the very same.
Love being whatever human relationships you have left that you haven't yet betrayed.Emphasis on the word yet.A Perfect Spy is a perfect book.
It will teach you to be a sharper observer, especially of yourself, your own feelings, judgments, and actions.It doesn't need to teach you how to betray.
No one who has read A Perfect Spy could have any doubt as to his true genius as a novelist, as a master cartographer of the human heart, in particular the heart that comes wrapped in a shell casing marked "middle-class English male".
It is said that one need read no more than Updike's Rabbit quartet to understand the prototypical postwar white American male; likewise it seems to me that Le Carre's forensic dissection of his specific time and place and class through the medium of Magnus Pym is unlikely to be improved upon by any writer in the future.
How could I read any James Bond books or even watch the movies? This is proper espionage. John LeCarre is a master storyteller, and although some of his books seem pithy, lengthy even they’re damn fine books to read. Not many are like him. He has no rivals
Like much work by le Carre, there are Soviets and Czechs and double and triple agents and jilted lovers and the usual panoply of genre characters, but weaving through the whole is a bildungsroman with a remarkable synchronicity to le Carre's (David Cornwell's) own life.
This is all the more heartbreaking because Magnus follows Cornwell's real trajectory closely, from his time working with his dad to his time spying on Oxford college Communists for the MI5 to his time scouting out Soviet agents in Switzerland and Austria.
This book is thus an amazing exploration of what spying means to people, inside or outside the world of professional spies.
Its Autobiographical very much in the spirit of & not dissimilar to Charles Dicken's David Copperfield and Great expectations.
Le Carré doesn’t just stick to Magnus Pym’s discourse; he offers the point of view of Jack Brotherhood and of Pym’s "freightenly English" wife, Mary, the two in desperate search through their memories of him.
Jaunty and comprehensive, le Carré plays with time and space, recounting Magnus’s life as son, lover, husband, embassy social lion, and spy.
Philip Roth didnt call it the best novel since the war in frivolity, and genius master director Stanley Kubrick desperately wanted to direct the film adaptation for a reason.
A film I have no doubt would've been another Kubrick masterpiece.
One time line builds up the life history of Magnus Pym, an agent for the British Secret Service, son of a remarkable con man, close friends with a Czech agent he met in Germany when they were both young men, both of them acting as double agents to serve their country and each other.
The other time line follows Pym after his father's death, when he disappears from his life with the Secret Service, and the gyrations that ensue, because no one knows (or can know) that he has not defected, and is not telling secrets.
magnus pym was trained unwittingly by his father to be the perfect spy.
his father was a con man of the highest order!!
follow pym from his childhood thru 50 years of lie as he rises thru the ranks and is being controlled by 2 agents from different countries who have been his lifelong mentors then he disappears from vienna whilst counsellor at the british embassy whilst getting his life back on track after his unfortunate dismissal from washington the chase is on led by his 2 agents to find a missing husband, devoted agent and a lifetime secret agent ......intrigue and excellent reflections on happenings and life just one question - why did georgie and and fergus not recognise the czech spy in the church?
The story itself is told by Magnus Pym to his own son Tom as he jots down everything he can remember in a secluded room by the sea to write a book of his life.
A long book but none the less well written if a little punishing at times to keep up with the flow, I believe the character of Rick Pym was moulded from some elements of Le Carre’s own father.
Magnus Pym is a senior member of British intelligence working in Austria whose father has just died, on going home for the funeral he disappears although we know he is hiding in his own safe house in Devon where he writes his life story for the benefit of his son Tom. The other story is the search for him and the ramifications of his disappearance when it is clear the Americans suspect him of being a traitor for the Czechs, his long time mentor and original spymaster Jack Brotherhood tries to find him.
