https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28818921-difficult-women
Don’t fret—it’s not too graphic and it’s not porn, it’s just there.I’d love to hear why Gay titled the book Difficult Women.
There were a couple of stories where women liked being physically hurt by men, and those were hard to read or understand.One thing I love about these stories is that there is no small talk; it’s some of the most honest dialogue I've heard.
This is what I call an emotional read.Gay experienced a violent sexual assault when she was younger, and I’m guessing that the last story, which is very upsetting, is somewhat autobiographical.
From the first time -last June - when I had the honor to hear her speak - tears flowing down my face - this woman has been my hero!!!!If you don't know who she is - you MUST - at LEAST listen to a few of her YouTubes on the Internet.
I listened to her speak not long ago about another book- another memoir- called "Hunger", a very personal book about 'her body'....for which I was sooo over-the-top moved --I've can't wait to read it.
The first story in "Difficult Women", called "I Will Follow You", brought me to tears by the end!
Many of the stories first appeared in publications such as Best American Mystery Stories, American Short Fiction, The Minnesota Review, Best American Short Stories and many others."a collection of stories of rare force and beauty, of hardscrabble lives, passionate loves, and quirky and vexed human connection."The stories feature women from many different backgrounds.
I used one hurt to cover another"Open Marriage - Can yogurt expire?Best Features - Oh my did this one make me angry."I don't normally go for girls like you but big girls try harder"Overall, this was such a great collection of stories about women whose lives are truly difficult.
Noble Things is especially poignant because it discusses what could happen if society breaks down completely, causing a Second Civil War. Regardless of one's politics, Gay's writing here gets her readers to think throughout the story, leaving mixed feelings of fear and hope.
It leaves the reader with lingering feelings of both hope and relief that the brutality featured in this collection is finally over.Roxane Gay can write.
At a point, it was though all the stories were about violence and for a time I thought about putting it aside, yet I finished because I was able to look past the subject matter to the excellent writing.
I'd give this 4.5 stars.This is a crazy-good collection, filled with stories that are sometimes quirky, sometimes moving, sometimes ribald, sometimes funny, but nearly always utterly compelling. There are 21 stories in this collection—some last little more than a page, while some are much longer, but there is a real power in Roxane Gay's storytelling, whether the stories have an almost frenzied pace or proceed in a slower, more contemplative fashion.While the title of this collection is  Difficu
Passionate, complex, unique, fascinating (in both good and bad ways), yes, but in my opinion, the word "difficult" connotes a negative quality that not all of these women have.
This collection is absolutely incredible and it might very well end up being my favourite book of 2016 (and I read some really great books this year).There is not a single bad story in this collection and some were among the best things I have ever read.
Many stories deal with dark themes and horrific things have happened to these women.
But while many short story collections I have read recently deal with the sad things happening in the present and the bleak future ahead, Roxane Gay goes another way.
Anything with Roxane Gay’s name on it is guaranteed to pique my interest.Difficult Women is a collection of short stories that cover a wide range of modern women, from a woman pretending not to realize when her husband switches places with his twin brother to a stripper putting herself through college and fending off an obsessed customer.And a number of the stories had me just floored by the raw emotion and chilling writing.Here are a few of my favorites pieces: I Will Follow You: A fantastic op
Anything with Roxane Gay’s name on it is guaranteed to pique my interest.Difficult Women is a collection of short stories that cover a wide range of modern women, from a woman pretending not to realize when her husband switches places with his twin brother to a stripper putting herself through college and fending off an obsessed customer.And a number of the stories had me just floored by the raw emotion and chilling writing.Here are a few of my favorites pieces:
This follows Natasha's journey of mourning and grieving her baby boy, who was run over by a car right in front of her and her husband's eyes.The way Gay described that horrible moment made everything around me stop for a second.“Ben and I screamed.
3.5 stars.
Maybe it's the mood I'm in, but at times Difficult Women felt almost too harsh and painful for me to keep reading -- I had to temper its effects by breaking up my reading with a few chapters from a book about the Berlin Wall of all things.
Difficult Women is a collection of short stories.
But these are not passive victims -- Gay gets deep into the complex subjectivity of her female characters -- often portraying a web of complicated emotions and motivations.
My 3.5 star rating is a recognition of Gay's talent.

We're introduced to a variety of women: jaded women, women who don't think they deserve love, women who have been hurt by those they trusted or strangers, women who want to feel pain, women who are trying to find their place, women who know exactly what they want out of life, fierce women who instinctively protect their loved ones.It isn't light reading.
A woman details her past trauma and explains to her devoted partner why she sometimes pushes him away.My favorite two stories were the ones that felt most of out place:The Sacrifice of Darkness- Every time miner Hiram Hightower goes underground, he comes back up less of a man.
Roxane Gay slays what she needs to slay with this riveting, hard-hitting short story collection about difficult women and the dangerous situations they face.
With Difficult Women, Gay proves her versatility as a writer, as she can pen exemplary novels and essays, as well as splendid short stories.I loved a few of the stories in this collection.
Recommended to those who have read and enjoyed Gay's other work, as well as to those who want a sharp, compelling short story collection that centers women and their suffering, their resilience.
There is no question that this author can write and write well, and that I am the outlier so far in many reviews.
These stories were grim, women placed in difficult situations, women treated with little kindness, many seemed to just accept their lives would be like this.
Hopelessness, despair, women in many different situations, many occupations.
Some were more fantastical and I found these a welcome relief.
These may be realistic, thankfully I don't know, maybe these are true depictions of some women's lives and probably are, but I finished these, and will admit to skipping around, glad they are not representative of mine.
3.5★"For difficult women, who should be celebrated for their very nature."Roxane Gay's introduction.I really liked the first stories – the writing, the characters, the situations.
This was sometimes preceded or followed by yet another sex scene.If I’d read a story or two in a publication, I would have thought they were terrific.
She was smart enough to want more but tired enough to accept the way things were.”That pretty much sums up the situation in many stories.
Gay writes poignancy well and describes some very sensitive scenes, too.
I will look for something else she’s written, because I like her writing.
It's a weird story that would have been readable if the central female protagonist wasn't so feeble.Difficult Women - A commentary on different categories women are placed into, but again, these are not women in charge of their lives and bodies and thoughts.
There's even a point where the protagonist decries what a cliche she lives in - it's like the author is trying to say something to us.I Am a Knife - I did not get this.
Broken WomenLost WomenTroubled WomenAbused WomenMany titles come to mind to describe these stories; difficult is not one of them.
And I guess because I was expecting a different interpretation of difficult - though, admittedly with Bad Feminist lingering in the back of my mind - this book caught me off guard.
Not one person thought that maybe she needed to go away and find herself, learn to love herself, without dragging other people into her mess of emotions.On the upside, I was pleasantly surprised by the fantasy aspect of some of the stories.
Though, honestly, I'm also feeling some kind of way about Gay as a writer after this.
You can’t just use words like “great” or “amazing” to describe this story collection.
It requires language that pinpoints at least a little the ways that Difficult Women will wreck you.
You will be wrecked, but you will also feel affirmed and seen and known.
That may sound like a contradiction, but that is what Difficult Women is all about.
The contradictions of existing as a woman in the world.
The contradictions of sex, love, and connection.
It is possible to want to be held and to be hurt at the same time and that is the essence of these stories.–Jessica Woodburyfrom The Best Books We Read In November 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/12/01/the-be...
For example, at least a few of these are love stories in which the main character deals with hate of some kind.
That's not necessarily a bad story; I know Roxane Gay herself has talked about feeling this way due to her own experiences.
Unfortunately, just like the other metaphor stories, it had the biggest non-ending I've ever read.
This is one of the few stories where the main character isn't turned on by Men Being Shitty.
VERDICT: Gay didn't put a thesis on most of these stories, so guess what?
Roxane Gay can fucking WRITE. Even though the stories can be phenomenally uncomfortable in their subject matter, the precision of her language and the wonder of her story construction leave me in awe.
Hot damn, I get to be the first to review a book—and not just any book, but Roxane Gay’s short story collection!
*throws confetti*[clears throat]Thanks to Netgalley I was able to read Roxane Gay's forthcoming short story collection, Difficult Women, in exchange for an honest review.I’m giving this one five stars.
It’s probably technically 4.5 stars, but I’m rounding up because I absolutely love Roxane Gay and some of the stories deserve more than 5 stars.
I feel like a broken record every time I review volumes of short stories but it’s the nature of a collection for some pieces to be stronger than others and that’s the case here once again.
However, I once heard her speak as part of a TV panel discussion and she was such an erudite, smart and interesting speaker that I was drawn to read this book of her short stories.
Some of them use physical pain or rough sex to numb emotional pain and those stories can be hard to read.
Gay's language is lean and direct but somehow conveys depth and emotion as she takes us to some dark places.
With thanks to NetGalley and the publisher Grove Atlantic for a copy of the book to read and review
The title, Difficult Women, led me (and I think a lot of other readers) to believe that this would be a collection of stories about women who go against what society wants of women.
Women have sex because they want to feel something other than whatever pain or hole they have within them.You know who also writes a lot of stories like that?
It seems Gay herself may not even agree with that considering how annoyed she was by the question about what other books of feminism she reads.What may actually be the case is she is now having difficulty with the fact that feminism has been white for so long, and people still think that all people who are feminists only have the rights of white women in mind when they talk about equality.
it took me forever to finish this book, i was on vacation and couldn't read much.
i have never read anything like this, such beautiful stories, heartbreaking at times.
I loved it, and had a great time reading it.
Most of these stories were about wives and mothers.
My least favorite story is "Florida", Anyone who knows me knows how much I hate trophy wives, and their life style.
(Women are independent strong creatures on their own, and need to stop being men's ) And Florida is about a woman who follows her husband around urghhh, the first page was enough for me to stop reading it.
Difficult women is a collection of stories. The women in these stories live lives of privilege and poverty. In marriages that are loving and haunted. Where neighbours conform, compete and spy on each other.Not usually my preference for reading but it's good to try something different and I'm glad I did.I would like to thank NetGalley, Grove Atlantic and the author Roxane Gay for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
So, I'm glad that the situation has been rectified.I enjoyed this book overall, although, as it's the case with short story collections, I liked some more than others.
As far as the writing is concerned, I found it very simple, almost conversational; somehow I expected it to be more literary, but that would have probably detracted from the story.Difficult Women is a gutsy, bare-all short story collection.
The title of this short story collection is very catchy, although, after reading it, I feel that "It's difficult to be a woman" would be a more fitting title.
Difficult Women sounds much better.I've received this book via NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review.
When I finished this collection of stories I was intrigued as to why this book was titled "Difficult Women" as I did not find many of these women to be "difficult." I then came across an interview she gave to Vogue and in it she stated:  “I think women are oftentimes termed ‘difficult’ when we want too much, when we ask for  too much, when we think too highly of ourselves, or have any kind of standards.
I wanted to play with this idea that women are difficult, when in reality it’s generally the people around  them who are the difficult ones.”A Solid 4 Stars.
Roxane Gay writes with the kind of honesty I WISH I was brave enough to use in my own writing. She is one of my new favorite authors. Just incredible.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestReviewing anticipated works like these is always difficult, especially if you're reviewing the book before it's been officially published. I'm not sure about others, but I always feel a tremendous amount of pressure - I want to give my honest opinion, but I also want to be as objective as possible and explain, more broadly, what the book is about and who the audience is.I'd heard stellar things about Roxane Gay's BAD FEMINIST. It's been on
Plus, I think I'm going to be pushing the char limit as is.DIFFICULT WOMEN is an odd collection, with stories ranging in length from a single page to almost thirty.
It felt like the unifying theme of this book was that women are victims and men are the perpetrators.
o_0 The Sacrifice of Darkness is another magic realism story that doesn't even feel like it belongs in this collection.
One of the flaws of this book is that many similar stories are placed in close proximity to each other - such as How and In the Event of My Father's Death - so that they end up running together.
A guy who was never secure, never conficent and fell Hard for the gorgeous lady who was first to express interest, then it’s been 10 years, and while they’re still hot and kickin, he’s wondering what he may have missed out on.FLORIDA - I would read several novels centered in this world.
It’s called a short story for a reason, Leah.
The Sacrifice of Darkness - I had honestly felt starved for a happy, functional loving couple by this point in the novel, (did you even read the title, Leah?) and this story more than fulfilled that desire.
I think it's the kind of books that, even if you didn't enjoy all the stories, you did understand how important they were. At least, that's how I felt.It's a beautiful, well-written book, full of raw emotions and feelings. This book is about how deep women love & live & hurt. It's about women loving each other because they are mothers, lovers, daughters, sisters, friends. It's poetic and heartbreaking.My personal favourite was North Country.Kudos for the beautiful diversity in this book : latinx, bi, lesbian, african-american women ... Love it.4.5Around the Year in 52 books 2017.51. A collection.
** for the stories.***** for the writing.'Difficult Women' – difficult stories; difficult reading experience about flawed women, crappy men and messed up lives.
A lot of the stories told in 'Difficult Women' work like News exposés, revealing the seamy, derailed lives and private worlds of broken people.
There are many lines throughout the narratives, that Ms. Gay ingeniously wraps around her characters like concertina wire, either to protect them or warn others to stay away.
And I should also note that the men in these stories are just the same; save for 'Magnus', there wasn't one male character to care for.
