https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1219954.Beaches
Beaches was one of my all-time favorite movies as a teenager, so when I saw this book, I felt certain that it would be a great read.
I am actually not even sure how they made such a great film from such a pathetic read.
The characters were not very likable at the beginning, and by the end, I was glad to see one of them die, just so it would end.
The main character, Cee Cee is just plain trashy, but she somehow becomes the hero of the story.
The best thing you can do with this book is take it to a beach, and leave it there.
The basic story stays the same: Cee Cee Bloom and Bertie White (Hillary in the movie) form an unlikely friendship when they are 10 and & 7 years old (respectively).
Through many years and personal hardships they remain friends, until a tragic illness brings them together.What didn’t I like about this book?
Cee Cee Bloom is not a very nice person in this book, and I found it hard to really care for her.
It also seemed to me that the author had Bette specifically in mind while writing the story, as if it were already a screenplay in her head.
loved it as much as i love the film. beautiful story about a beautiful friendship and what you'd do for the friend you love most; that has become your family.
**Contains adult language and content**(book I read from actually has a different bookcover image, but I couldn't find it, original '85 hardcover edition, and honestly I like this paperback cover better)"1951.
And the tears and laughter of two friends who finally make their peace through a little girl's love." (original book's synopsis)At the library a few days ago, this title (Beaches) came to me...
Anyway, Bertie's character is a bit different in the book as well.
Overall, I had high expectation coming into this book with having enjoyed the movie version under my belt.
I really enjoyed this book. The relationship between the two women was real; it wasn't pretty, simple, or common. It was deep, complicated, and that made the book even better. There were parts which I felt extreme disappointment; but not because the book was bad or so-so, but because I wanted more for both women. This book really kept going and made me feel a lot for the characters, which I haven't had in awhile.
Beaches is probably my all time favorite friendship movie. I was so looking forward to reading this book to learn more about the characters, but it was not good. I did not like the Bertie character at all. Way too week and the Cee Cee character was too filthy mouth. This book was more about sex and such strong language more so than the friendship that was the basis of the movie.
Excellent novel of friendship, filled with nostalgia and vibrant imagery. Both main characters were complex and original, and it was a really intriguing little novel to read.
I enjoyed reading this book. Beaches is one of my favorite movies of all time and while the book did not have as much of an emotional punch as I remember the movie having, I’m glad I read it.
One of my all-time favorite chick flicks, I found the book to be heartwarming as well.
They then start to send letters which leads into their adulthood.As maybe guessed they do meet each other again later in life in a bar in New York where Cee Cee adopts her again.The book follows their life during relationships, marriage/breakups sex, love, death and carers, but mostly friendship; and the importance of friendships.I think both characters balance each other out in the best way, they feed off each other, more so Bertie throughout the book, especially towards the end.
I think there is something real to this book which everyone can relate a part of their life to, no matter what age.Also, a lot of people seem to hate Cee Cee's character for being nasty, and potty mouthed.
Then, internet came by, and eventually the search engines and their databases improved a whole lot, and I managed to find not only the name of the movie and the lead actor (Beaches, Bette Midler), but also that it is based on a book!!The dampener on my excitement was that I could not find a way of procuring that book – amazon and flipkart were a few years away, and popular bookstores were still as bad in terms of inventory.
If you have had a friend who has been with you through good times and bad, or if you have seen the movie and loved it, I highly recommend the book.
You are the wind beneath my wings..........Leigh Ann. Always remember Dirty Dancing, She's Out of Control, Can't Buy Me Love, Gone with the Wind, Titanic, Girls Just Wanna Have Fun and Romeo and Juliet while playing Marshall Fields. I credit myself with your introduction to Coach and Kate Spade purses, Clinique makeup and Victoria's Secret underwear. Your are welcome, Justin. Love you!
When i came onto the comment section I expected everyone to be praising this book to pieces, but was I wrong.
I liked how it switched back to 1983 and how it draws into that year at the end of the book.
SPOILER....I mean she thinks she hears her husband sleeping with CeeCee in the next room and what does she do?
go lie on the bed and cry I mean seriously?
The little girl Nina was also very bratty and annoying, apart from that I really enjoyed this book and would definitely recommend!
I really loved this book and can't wait to see the movie now. I had never even heard of either before but happened to pick the book up and now it is one of my favorites. It is a great story and I will definitely recommend it to many!
One of my favorite books of all time, along with the movie (Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey). It is also my best friend's favorite -- which is great, because the book is all about the power of a lifetime friend.
♥♥it's good! and I like the two character in this novel. It's good at the last part because I cant help to cry! but in all I think it's good but not that great!
After seeing the movie WAY more times than I would like to admit - I had to read the book.
One of my favorite films and this book is awesome also, just as good as the film. Totally sobbed my way through it.
Read it way before the movie came out and loved it. The movie did the book justice, so if you've seen it but haven't read it give it a shot.
It was a lot different than the movie which i saw many years ago first. Very touching story though. Great to read if you have a best friend.
(There’s also a sequel, but more about that later.) I found this an incredibly easy book to read and get into, but having re-watched the film, I realised how different the film is and I think I prefer the book.
I think the first book ending is slightly different to the film and the film was wrapped up a lot better.
I also think it’s changed my opinion of the film, having read the book afterwards, and I wish the director, Garry Marshall, had stayed more true to the source work.
Sometimes the movie is better.
Cee Cee is a foul-mouthed singer who manages to make it big.
And that is the big problem with the book, because the characters don't really feel like emotional characters.
They have flaws, but you don't care.The climax of the movie happens on the very last page of the book, and is over in one sentence.
There is no emotion there, either.I will be forever grateful that we have this book because someone was able to turn it into the beloved movie.
If you love the movie, there's really no need to bother with this one.
I loved the movie (makes me cry EVERY time!) and thought I'd enjoy seeing where the screenplay came from.
The basic storyline was there however the characters were definitely enhanced by the actresses playing them as Cee Cee was much more lovable in the adaptation.
I enjoyed reading the different perspectives in the story such as John and Michael (Cee Cee and Bertie's husbands) as they had more to say throughout the book instead of always seeing things from Cee Cee and Bertie's point of view as in the movie.
Overall a good book much enhanced through the screenplay, actresses and music in the film adaptation.
Bertie and Cee Cee meet as children and become pen pal friends. Their friendship grows as the years pass by. Sometimes they were personally there while the other was going through a tough time....and sometimes it was letters that got them through. There is conflict and even a time where they aren't friends.....but love and friendship win out and they return to their amazing friendship that lasts for a lifetime.
For all the people who say the movie was better and the book wasn't good were wrong! If you're a fan of the movie you'll like the book. I can't say which is better since they are different. It's not reading the storyline from the book word for word. The characters are the same (unlike some other reviews I do think CeeCee was likeable as in the movie). I found the differing story lines and similarities interesting and entertaining.
This is easy summer reading at its best. Sure I've seen the movie, but of course the book was way different and a whole lot better. Classic story of opposites attract friendship that endures over 30 years of whatever life throws at them. Sit back, relax, cry, laugh and just enjoy yourself with this easy read.
I've watched this movie my whole life because of my mother so when normally I read the book. I was wrong to guess like normal the book would be better than the movie. I was wrong, so very wrong. The writing is very dragged on and just kinda boring at time. I did enjoy it though, but the characters act much different and worse here than they do it in the movie.
A must read book!!! Bertie and Cee Cee could not be any more different yet they stay best friends throughout most of the book. You will be all in your feelings by the end of this tale, it's very relatable and enjoyable.
Loved the movie, thought the book was better!
A book you can't put down.Best book I e read in a long time. Love the movie as well. Well captured!! I could visualize every scene!
