https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15981.A_Garden_of_Earthly_Delights
Lowry è il titolo della seconda parte, un nome del genere mi ha ricondotto a Malcom, lo scrittore, ma non c’è nessuna attinenza, il protagonista è raccontato nel decennio che va dagli anni ’30 ai ’40.
Nella postfazione JCO scriveIl giardino delle delizie è un ritratto totalmente realistico di quel mondo, eppure non è tanto un romanzo sulle vittime, ma più sui modi in cui gli individui si definiscono e si modificano per diventare «americani» – decisamente non vittime, cioè.
Il giardino delle delizie è stato immaginato come il primo volume di una trilogia informale di romanzi dedicati alle classi sociali più diverse, focalizzata sui giovani americani alle prese con il proprio destino.
Quel giorno di molti anni fa uno sferragliante furgone Ford con a bordo ventinove braccianti e i loro figli colpì di striscio un camion di qualcuno del posto che stava trasportando maiali a Little Rock su una statale di campagna viscida di pioggia.
Donne che sono prese negli anni migliori e poi si consumano nelle continue gravidanze.Infanzie inesistenti e riconosciute solo come ulteriori strumenti di lavoro.Continue violenze verbali e fisiche.Tre capitoli che hanno per titolo il nome di tre protagonisti maschili che non si conoscono ma che a loro insaputa sono legati da una donna: Clara, di una bellezza mozzafiato e con un potere nascosto che porta gli uomini a volerla proteggere a tutti i costi.
I would end up having an English major with only the slightest knowledge of Joyce Carol Oates who was 29 when A Garden of Earthly Delights was published.In this book JCO writes about migrant workers picking beans, strawberries, tomatoes.
I especially enjoyed the fact that there were relatively few characters which helped my limited memory.I read the original edition but JCO made some significant revisions (three-quarters of the book changed, I read) for the 2003 Modern Library edition that includes a lengthy Afterword by JCO.
You can read that look into how JCO revised this book on the Amazon website at http://www.amazon.com/Garden-Earthly-...
At some point in time, I acquired a paperback copy of ‘Expensive People’ the second book in the ‘Wonderland Quartet’.
This book, however, may not be for everyone, and the younger audiences may find the characters and their backgrounds too harsh and may have a hard time relating, or coping with the author’s prose.
We see Clara develop from childhood, to young adult, to parenthood, to a woman totally exhausted by life.
This book is surely considered a literary classic, and although, it’s not exactly an uplifting, feel good story, and really is pretty heavy reading, I am glad I took the time to read it.
E quindi: polvere, insetti, baracche, sporcizia, abbrutimento, violenza.Il giardino delle delizie ha la struttura e l'andamento di un romanzo classico, totalmente realistico, e cerca di descrivere e comprendere non tanto le cosiddette vittime (Verga li avrebbe chiamati i Vinti), ma, secondo le parole della stessa Oates, di riflettere "sui modi in cui gli individui si definiscono e si modificano per diventare 'americani', decisamente non vittime, cioè."Il metodo della Oates è di ripercorrere la parabola esistenziale dei suoi tre personaggi dall'interno, guardando la realtà dal loro punto di vista, ma allo stesso tempo prestando la dovuta attenzione a disegnare gli ambienti umani e i contorni sociali entro cui il destino dei protagonisti si dispiega, esprimendone l'inevitabilità, in un modo che ricorda molto il Naturalismo francese e che sembra essere la versione contemporanea del progetto ideale e ideologico che sottende il ciclo dei Rougon-Macquart.Certo, qui siamo al cospetto del romanzo novecentesco e le acrobazie narrative, le sospensioni e le ellissi presenti in molte zone del racconto lo testimoniano.
Joyce Carol Oates originally wrote this book in 1965.
Clara’s need for each of these men and the place they have in her life and the hold she has on them is the life of this book.
Joyce Carol Oates has created a heroine like none other in Clara!
This story and the character of Clara are testimonies of the gifted writing of Joyce Carol Oates.
La inceput nu m-am putut conecta deloc cu ea ... ma gandeam ca o voi abandona, ca nu e pentru mine ... treceau zile fara sa citesc deloc din ea, dar apoi ... ceea ce am crezut ca voi abandona, a devenit ceva ce regret ca s-a terminat . Joyce Carol Oates a creat o lume in care mi-a placut sa fiu . O lume care mi-a adus uneori aminte de John Steinbeck si de D. H. Lawrence ... Mi-a placut mult .
She brings the Walpoles to life with astonishing force and clarity.The novel ostentively centers around Clara Walpole in particular, as each section is named after pivotal men in her life: Carleton, her father, Lowry, her rescuer and would-be lover, and Swan, her son.
As Clara claws her way into "better lives" the tone and scope of the novel change in fascinating ways.
Depressingly enough, there seems to be no "better way", as each of the Walpoles-Carleton, Clara, Swan- seem as bereft of choice, as imprisoned by circumstance, as motivated by violent desperation, despite the marked change of their material circumstances.
An interesting book but I can't say I enjoyed reading it. the first half was better than the last half. the overall story was so depressing. You just felt so bad for these people and their sordid lives. I was a little disappointed with her writing, at times she just goes on and on and is hard to follow. Too wordy, I never thought I would say that about JCO but...... I will take a JCO vacation for awhile.
On the one hand I am humbled and amazed and think that there is no way I will ever be able to write something like this.
On the other hand I am giddy with delight and grateful that my eyes continue to allow me read things like this.
There is substance and heaviness behind her prose… and I, for one, am a fan.A Garden of Earthly Delights tells the story of Clara who is born into a family of migrant farmers and moves up the ladder of society.
As it is, I am looking forward to reading the next Oates book in her Wonderland Quartet; Expensive People.
From the beginning of this book I was not disappointed.The first book in the Wonderland quartet, the story starts in the life of Carleton Walpole, a migrant worker who is on the road with his exceptionally pregnant wife.
We follow Clara's life through the third portion of the book which centers on Swan from an intelligent young boy to a world-weary young man and the events which lead him down that road.Immediately the story smelled of Steinbeck (particularly East of Eden) and my girl, Flannery O'Connor.
Oates captures the lives of three generations of Walpoles and in stunning description details their highs and lows.
Heavy, prolific and moving.
Clara is a character I could relate to and at times could not understand at all.
Clara's struggles, her actions, have a great effect, not just on her, but on the people around her.
My only criticism is that I had a hard time sympathizing with Swan, although a line in the afterward by JCO - "Haves and have-nots is too crude a formula to describe this great subject, for as Swan Walpole discovers, to have, and not to be, is to have lost one's soul." - has made me continue to think about him.
I wanted to like this book more than I did.
In a way it's like an old Appalachian folk song, with gothic overtones: you can see the bad ending a mile away.Oates evidently did extensive revisions for this edition, and the book does get better as it goes along.
Yet though she claims to have added complexity to the characterizations, they still seemed very much to be types to me.
Not exactly stereotypical, but predictable enough to keep from really surprising me as a reader.
It's an old story.
That's not necessarily bad, but Oates didn't make it fresh enough for me.
This was my first Joyce Carol Oates novel and it's a difficult read beginning with the lives of "white trash" migrant farmworkers in the United States.
Teenager Clara somehow escapes this depressing life and finds herself torn between her unreliable saviour Lowry and lover Curt Revere.
Her son Swan cuts a tragic figure.
Protagonist Clara is a strong yet almost unlikeable character in a novel that takes a harsh look at the difference between the social classes.
I would have given it more stars and it probably isn't Oates' fault, but Swan's story in the third part just didn't resonate with me.
Un romanzo dagli innumerevoli temi: la perdita dell'anima, dell'identità personale, l'essere contrapposto all'avere, il tormento del vivere, la gara impari contro se stessi e il destino che appare ineluttabile. Un mondo che crolla e si sgretola, tutto il dolore, il tormento e l'ingiustizia esistenti nelle vite umane, la disillusione e la rabbia, l'impotenza. Un romanzo denso, personaggi complessi e vividi, il degrado e la miseria dell'essere. Splendido libro.Il giardino delle delizieJoyce Carol OatesTraduzione: Francesca CrescentiniEditore: ilSaggiatorePag: 520Voto: 5/5
A wonderful story of losing one's soul, in an atheist's narration. I'm looking forward to reading the other volumes of the quadrilogy.
It is disturbing how subtly Oates can establish not just an identity but a frame of perception, a struggling soul's habits of mind.That Oates manages this while always avoiding the first person narrative voice, and skipping from a father, to a daughter, to the daughter's son, weaving a giant tale of striving, love, class angst and self-destruction, is astonishing.
But A Garden of Earthly Delights, to its credit, avoids the capital e Epic-ness that Steinbeck pushes throughout his book.
This is not a book for the fainthearted when it comes to reading stamina.
The story revolves around the beautiful Clara, and her life and circumstances that are shaped by the three men in her life- her father, her husband, and her son.
It was difficult for me to get through the first third of the book, about Clara and her wilful father Carleton, because the writing was so harsh and choppy, it required perseverance to keep reading.
This is the first book in a quartet, and I'm excited to read the rest; but I think I need an emotional breather from the Revere family for a while.
I found the first third of the book, which focused on Clara's childhood in a migrant farmworker family, to be quite compelling.
However, I could not quite connect with the latter parts of the story -- I couldn't quite understand Clara's adult character.
The 2002 Afterword, in which Oates shares her more mature reflections on this early work and what she attempted to do in the revision, is very interesting.
However, unless you are a true-blue Oates fan and are interested in studying her evolution as a writer, I would not recommend this one.
well written, drawn out fodder. ferrante’s Neapolitan Novels but the pleasure doesn’t feel so guilty. big fan of lila and clara. “i can pick fuckin lettuce—“oates using the same stuff in the sixties as her nineties novels. suicide, coming of age, incest, alcoholism, new york, economic disparity. harsh characters in rough settings. works for me. she’s gotten better at it. You Must Remember This is of no more significance, but stays stronger throughout its too many pages. A Garden of Earthly Delights wanes quickly once clara is penned.3 stars
Based on such high ratings and the fact that I enjoyed another book by this author, I thought this book would be a winner.
Instead I found it much too wordy.
Character development was choppy and in the end I didn't like a single character in this book.
The author began developing the main character, Clara, as a young girl who escaped a harsh life but before long I felt like I didn't know this character at all.
I found myself skimming the final third of the book only to be exceptionally annoyed by the ending.
Questo è il secondo romanzo di J.C.Oates e, come lei stessa afferma nella postfazione di questa riedizione, è un romanzo pieno della vitalità, dell'energia e delle idee di una scrittrice agli esordi.La storia è quella dell'ascesa sociale di Clara, figlia di braccianti nomadi, ambiziosa e spregiudicata, arriverà dove non poteva nemmeno immaginare. Ma contro le legittime ambizioni di Clara si schierano l'ostracismo sociale e un ancora più oscuro destino avverso, che la dicono lunga sul cosiddetto sogno americano.
I can't believe I'm already done with this. It was a hard read, emotionally, but also quick because it is so engaging. I might need to get some distance to give a real review because I'm still reeling from it. I am feeling under the weather and was closing my eyes earlier and just started crying because I couldn't stop thinking about it. It isn't despairing or a feeling of victimhood but this book is undeniably about deep loss. I hope to edit this review later when I'm feeling less raw.
I legami che annunciano la disfatta e taglienti scenari metaforici. Ecco di cosa è fatto questo primo volume dell'Epopea americana della Oates. Il sogno americano che si sgretola in una città piccola, e prima ancora nei campi dove lavorano i braccianti, si sgretola in una maniera evocativa, in un modo così brillante da far male agli occhi.
La génesis de una gran escritoraCuando empecé con “Un jardín de placeres terrenales” no me fijé demasiado en el título ni en la portada del libro; para nada, mi referencia era la escritora, Joyce Carol Oates, a quien conocía bastante bien; lo segundo que tenía en cuenta era empezar a conocer desde sus inicios a la norteamericana con todos sus libros incluidos en Mi proyecto literario (que si habéis comprobado, lo he alargado un año más, con tanto libro es imposible llegar a leerlos todos en tres años).Al ser un libro extenso, y llevarlo encima varios días, varias personas me comentaron algo de lo que no era consciente: lo posiblemente “rosa” , reforzado, además, por la portada glamurosa; y claro, el comentario unánime era que no me pegaba; lo curioso es que lo acaba de leer este párrafo cargado de violencia:“Notó cómo la hoja fina y afilada le atravesaba la ropa, la rasgaba, la levantaba, la hundía, y Rafe seguía sin soltarle.
I can't remember who recommended this, and she's lucky because I would probably quit reading her books in protest.I faithfully read every word of the relentlessly depressing first third of the book, and kept thinking it was like someone decided the Ewells were the best part of "To Kill a Mockingbird," and they needed their own spinoff.
By the time I was two hundred pages in and facing nearly another two hundred pages of "why am I doing this to myself," I remembered I'm not in school and don't actually have to finish Important Books I'm not enjoying.
Later she finds her way into the life of Revere, a wealthy man quite smitten by Clara in spite of his tendency toward hard practicality.
In time Clara met an older man in town and learned that he came from a well-to-do family, the Reveres.
Clara was determined that Steven, whom she called Swan, would have all of the benefits she had not had, and she devoted much of her life to fulfilling that wish.
The book takes us several years beyond, focusing more and more on Steven over time, yet Clara is fundamentally still at the core of the novel.
i want to thank Lisa Simpson for introducing me to the works of this wonderful writer :) way better than Steel!

I toyed with only 4 stars, so this must just brush into the best reads.
The edition I read is one that Oates reworked from the early publication.
This is her second only novel - of over 40!
The Rosenthal Family Foundation Award for Fiction of $10,000 has been awarded annually since 1957 to a young novelist for a book published during the previous year that is a considerable literary achievement.Ok, what I want most to know is how such a prolific author, and one who has been publishing for more than 50 years, has so far escaped my attention.
My Models were Balzac, Stendhal, Dickens, Flaubert, Mann, and Faulkner." So, her models are five authors who I want to keep reading.
I suspect I'll be reading more Oates.
