https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785454.Train_to_Pakistan
i wished Train to be turned into train into corpse carrier and then its give an another reason simply to dislike the religion, and i dislike religion) about some people living in a village, beside Hindustan and Pakistan borders, not affected by Hindustan and Pakistan splitting-hating-raping-butchering reality, but going to be affected soon and about the trains were carrying corpses which were crossing from both countries to respective countries.
Khushwant sir given a clear picture of social, political, physical and mental atmospheres, during that period,of people who must be happy that they got freedom, instead they like to cleanse opposite side of their respective homes.i don't know its a review or something or anything.
Train to Pakistan is a superb book on many levels.
It is a documentary of Punjab, its people, its culture.
Its a narrative of the gruesome events that burned northern India in 1947.
It is a story of the cultural, political, and intellectual atmosphere of India at the time.
If the reader is a product of the society the athor writes about, or is intimately familiar with it, and possesses any amount of intellectual spark, this book is an absolute must read.
How much it'll mean to you if you are not familiar with the culture of Punjab, I don't know.
India has not changed much even after 70 years of independence when it comes to religion. it's sad and heart-breaking. :(
Amritsar probably had the highest volumes of trains come through filled with dead corpses from both sides of the Pakistan border.
Could my train, my very seat, once been full of dead bodies?My experience in Amritsar was probably most profoundly altered from this reading at the Indian Pakistan border.
Each side has a few rows of hot cement stadium seating for people to come and observe the lowering of the flags ceremony conducted by the military.
At the bottom of the stadium on the Indian side there were people dancing and screaming, “Hindustan, Hindustan!” Some of my friends joined them.
The central quality of Iqbal is that he does not belong anywhere and, what is worse, he pathetically desires to contribute to the mass upsurge of India’s rural committees.
In four chapters, Khushwant Singh weaves the stories of one Sikh  lambardar  keeping peace in the little village, Mano Majra, where Sikhs, Muslims and one Hindu live in peace, as brothers, one village  badmash  wrongfully convicted of a murder and courting a Muslim girl, one Sikh with no religion and no beliefs, sent to help the villagers learn of what was happening after the partition and one government employee, waddling between the right and wrong decisions.
My blood is tinted green, my heart is matted with white veins I was born in a country made in the name of love, loyalty and faith.
The scenic descriptions and the depiction of the daily lives of the people in the book are so vivid and detailed; it feels like I was present there and experiencing things myself.I loved the use of symbolism to depict the events happening in the village.
The disruption of the day-to-day activities like the train schedule shows the disruption of the rhythm of their daily lives.The author, at various places, criticizes the different aspects of society like people’s moral codes, religious beliefs, inequality, corrupt practices, and points out the hypocrisy of the people.
3 June 1947 – Viceroy Mountbatten announces the plan for the Partition of India into two independent states.
– Nehru in 1960Yasmin Khan, from her book The Great Partition:By August 1947 all the ingredients were in place for ethnic cleansing in Punjab: a feeble and polarized police force, the steady withdrawal of British troops and their substitution with the limited and undermanned Punjab Boundary Forces and a petrified and well-armed population.
As I said in my review of that book, the flight of millions of refugees from or to Pakistan happened without state intervention – both of the brand new states had hardly any military available to them to enforce any controls whatsoever.
The province of Punjab (like Bengal on the Eastern borders) was to be cut in half between its Muslim majority population and Hindu-Sikh majority population.
Those who found themselves on the wrong side paid the price when in a village, where the story is set, neighbours and long terms friends turned against one another not knowing to which new country the village had gone, since it was on the border and had a fairly mixed population.The inanity and mindlessness of the conflict is cleverly depicted throughout the novel especially in a case when Iqbal, on the run, finds shelter in a mosque.
Khushwant Singh makes his point with this book that there is no categorical distinction of a person as good or bad and that even the best of relationships, which are built upon the virtues of comradeship and empathy, can be totally engulfed in troubled times by selfishness, intolerance, hypocrisy and falsehood.
Khushwant Singh is a brilliant raconteur and his choice of words and the way he describes each action and thought of a character is extremely lucid, deeming this book a brilliant read even from a literary point of view.
With pellucid prose bound to tug the strings of your heart, Khushwant Singh brings to life an India that had just gained Independence. Men stepped out with swords, shielding themselves with religious scriptures, slashing through the good and the bad. Reason took a back seat when men, driven by faith, wiped out entire villages. The despondent waited for death disguised as an old friend, a neighbor or a priest from the house of God. The intellectual ensconced to safety when it dawned upon them that the country they belonged to, by virtue of birth, was not religiously pluralistic.
Inspite of volumes being written about life before, during and after the Indo-Pak partition, 'Train to Pakistan' clearly stands apart.
How the brotherhood between two major communities of a small peaceful village transforms to hatred and loathe overnight under the existing scenario, is unbelievably surprising.
The mentality of villagers, their opinion on freedom and independence, the law makers and law changers, have all been wonderfully described.
Add to it, the moral paradox has so beautifully been written that one can just hope for the book to go on and on.
The story centers around a town names Mano Majra, in which "Sikhs and Muslims have lived together in peace for thousands of years." The partition of the country into a Hindu state (India) and a Muslim one (Pakistan) at first barely affects this community, but soon refugees are traveling the lone daily train that stops in this remote village, and tensions begin to build.
While parts of the story seem contrived, it does present a very convincing view of a world divided by religious intolerance and fear.
Lahore, one of the most important cities of pre-independence Punjab was only about 20 km away from where I was sitting and watching the beating retreat ceremony.Through the writer's eyes, I can almost see the trains overflowing with refugees pulling into stations on either side of the border and the carnage accompanying them.Singh's fictional Mano Majra has been spared most of the horrors of Partition and Sikhs, Muslims, and Hindus live in peace with each other.
This book completely makes it point, and that to quite loudly.The horrors of partition are depicted such that it will leave you with goosebumps.
Nearly 6 decades after independence, and yet so much about the book is still relevant.
To understand India, to understand relationship between India and Pakistan one must surely read it.Also Khuswant sing was successful in portraying human emotions so well, there is no categorical distinction of a person as good or bad; that the test of ones character is only in tough times- via the contrast of the two lead characters of the novel.
All in all its a very good book.
Brilliant!Tear jerking horror, which unfortunately is based on real events in a fictional town."The doer must do only when the receiver is ready to receive. Otherwise, the act is wasted."This is so apt. Wasted this book last decade, re-read it now... and this time it was so intense that I'm updating the rating to 5!"Ethics, which should be the kernel of a religious code, has been carefully removed."Thought provoking stuff on how religious zealots can churn hatred even from years of love and bonding.Hats off for the barrage of philosophical thoughts towards the end.
Train to Pakistan is simple yet gripping and thought-provoking novel.
The story is at the time of the partition of India and Pakistan but the book is far from throwing light on political disturbances, instead, it's about social understanding among the people living in a particular place.
Iqbal Singh, an educated social worker kept on dreaming as to what should be done while Juggut Singh not knowing how to read and write, did what he felt was right.
The story is such that no side can be blamed more for what's been done.
When the trains become delayed, the rhythm of the village gets out of sync and worse when the trains begin to stop in Mano Majra, life will never be the same for all who witness it.A man named Iqbal arrives from Delhi, sent by his party to observe the impact of the news.Well, Babuji,' began the Muslim.
'Babuji, tell us, why did the English leave?'The villagers aren't convinced by Iqbal's idealistic view that freedom will follow Independence.'Why, don't you people want to be free?
Probably one of the best works of fiction by Khushwant Singh and the Indo-Pak partition saga.
Train to Pakistan is a classic story of human endurance and struggle through a mass movement.
The story is as simple and common as possible – a small peaceful village, regular corrupt officials, ordinary ruffians and holy men.
Khushwant Singh handles the subject sensitively and truthfully never loosing his control over reality.
The government officials remain corrupt but with a damage control agenda, they twist right and wrong only to do what seems best.
The local men live their ordinary lives giving in to destiny and the orders from the high command.
Fiction based on India-Pakistan partition.It narrates the refugee problems,the violence & hatred tha
“ Not forever does the bulbul sing In balmy shades of bowers, Not forever lasts the spring Nor ever blossom flowers. Not forever reigneth joy, Sets the sun on days of bliss, Friendships not forever last, They know not life, who know not this.” Khushwant Singh was one of the most popular authors in India. Serious literary as well as light humorous fiction, journalism etc he was everywhere. And even if you are not a reader, you need to love him for him for his humor, he actually came up with his
It is about religious riots in and around Punjab at the time of independence of the country in which an estimated 14 million people were migrated over something as fictional as God. 2 million were killed.You know how Dawkins talks about a world without religion?
The train would be stopped mid-way by rioters, and by the time it crossed the border – it would be full of death bodies.You know another thing about a world without religion – lesser political boundaries.
That a true Hindu, Sikh or Muslim would never have do it – well, the people involved in religious violence always carry the right kind of dressing and speak right kind of slogans.
The novels shows the scenes from the jail, Talks between sub Inspector and village magistrate, Discussion between the villagers about the partition condition, show how people viewed famous personalities like Mahatma Gandhi in some way or the other.The most heart-rending passage in the book is when the government makes the decision to transport all the Muslim families from Mano Majra to Pakistan.
The way of writing of Khushwant Singh is unique and that makes him India's one of the best writer, an eminent personality.
One of the lines that stayed with me most was, "Ethics, which should be the kernel of religious code, has been carefully removed".Kushwant Singh has captured man's most dominant trait, his ability to rationalize anything he does.
Life and Death, Center and Periphery in Khushwant Singh's Train to PakistanA village, Mano Majra, where the rhythm of life is determined by the coming and going of trains.
India has been divided into India and Pakistan and communal cleansing and migration are realities.Khushwant Singh's Train to Pakistan continues to remain a partition-classic, bringing to life the horrors of partition through a simple story about a village at the border of India and Pakistan.Life and death are significant metaphors.
The death of the moneylender at the center leads to the arrest of these two characters at the periphery.
Brutal mass-killings took place across both boundaries.
The book tells the story of one village which was surprisingly spared the dark, evil sentiment which diseased the hearts of the murderous ones.
Only an Indian at heart can do that.
I experienced the Indian smell in the book.
Even the profanities were so exclusive to the Indian tongue!!The humour was uncanny at times.
What does freedom really mean?
It might be a cynical soliloquy of a character, but we must remember that the writer is speaking to the masses through his writing.I still feel A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry had a better prosaic quality, but this one had its own aura.
Not for all, but every Indian must read this…
In between all this chaos, a magistrate who saves hundreds of people by preventing attack on a train filled with refugees, a badmash but morally good one who falls in love with a girl of opposite religion who sacrifices his life to provide safe passage for the train and an atheist comrade morally good who fails to even attempt to prevent a massacre are the central characters of the plot.What I loved about this book, in particular, are the characters which are fictitious but the scenario remains a hardcore reality, an age where few heroes remained heroes, many innocents become victim of religious hate and communal violence with its impacts continuing to date.
You think you’ve read and seen all about the Partition of 1947?
Well, not without reading this particular edition of Train to Pakistan that packs a photographic memorabilia by Margaret Bourke along with the powerful unbiased literature from one of the South-Asia’s best writers.
What makes this book unique is the way it takes everyone’s perspective into account whether you are a Sikh, or a Muslim or Hindu through cunningly put together plots of love twists, faulty justice systems, religious harmony and brotherhood with a shocking and sudden blood thirsty revenge ending the mass on a sorrowful note.
If at all one forgets what it is that makes Khushwant Singh much much more than a scandal-mongering, over-hyped persona, one just needs to go back to this book.How many of us actually wanted "freedom"? And what exactly was "freedom" supposed to imply? Reading this book at a time when Macaulay is being newly interpreted has been a mind boggling experience to my limited intelligence. Juggut's understanding of an educated man as someone who knows English, is it the average layman's opinion? For now I only know that my reading list next year will have more books on pre-Independence India.
Consciousness of the bad is an essential prerequisite to the promotion of the good.  This was a brutal, brutal, brutal book to read. After spending a lot of conscious time as well as unconscious time thinking about it, I came to a conclusion that I can never give this book any less than 5 stars. So after all this time spent on pondering, I finally decided to write a short review. Although, I don't consider myself adequately knowledgeable to review a book like this or any classic for that matte
After spending a lot of conscious time as well as unconscious time thinking about it, I came to a conclusion that I can never give this book any less than 5 stars.
Although, I don't consider myself adequately knowledgeable to review a book like this or any classic for that matter.While reading the story of the fictional village, Mano Majra, I underwent a series of tumultuous emotions.
This book was a lot more than Jugga Singh's-one of the main character-struggle for justice or a train from Pakistan carrying Sikh corpses.
“And God- no,not God; He was irrelevant.” Train to Pakistan is a hard-hitting historical fiction on the partition of Pakistan and India and all that that went into it: gory, gruesome massacre of both sides including children and women, trainloads of corpses, looting of houses and property, rape, more bloodshed, some broken love and unsaid goodbyes.
According to the Hindus, the Muslims were to blame.
Both raped”Khushwant Singh paints a human element to the story describing religion, culture, social structure and portrays a deep message that both sides were to be blamed.
Will the Sikhs of Mano Majra seek retaliation by sending a train with corpses of their Muslim brothers bound to Pakistan?
