https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1845218.Biggles_Defies_the_Swastika
Enid Blyton’s ‘Famous Five’ and ‘Billy Bunter’ were my childhood go to books while ‘Biggles’ filled my early teens, so I just couldn’t resist when I came across the audio version of “Biggles Defies the Swastika” . Good wholesome fun in which Biggles outwits a not very smart set of Gestapo officers. Those guys were so naïve and trusting that I got a whole new understanding of why Hitler’s men lost the war. Good honest fun, but really only for the young.
A good Biggles story, moving along quickly with half-way plausible action: and some of it is genuinely thrilling, especially the flying.Early in World War Two, Biggles is doing reconnaissance in Norway when the Germans invade and he finds himself marooned in occupied territory.
For much of the early part of the story Biggles remains isolated among the enemy occupiers, and the Norwegians, who may nor may not be sympathetic to his cause.
In this claustrophobic atmosphere Biggles masquerades among the Germans, trying also to avoid his arch nemesis Eric von Stalhein, of the Gestapo, who has got wind of Biggles presence in Norway and has high-tailed it north to look for him.
Not long ago I reviewed a book by John Boyne on my blog Randomly Reading called The Terrible Thing that Happened to Barnaby Brocket.
He manages to free all the prisoners, but is then ordered back to Boda Aerodome to be questioned by von Stalhein.Before that can happen, Biggles is ordered to Stavanger airfield by the British to gather intelligence about Nazi defenses there and then to go to Fjord 21, where he runs into his other old friend Ginger.
Biggles returns to Boda, finds Algy and they make their way to Fjord 21, Ginger in his plane and escape, only to find that the Fjord is now occupied by Nazis and that Ginger is missing.
Action-packed from beginning to end, this gripping adventure features Biggles, his chums and his old adversary von Stalhein in occupied Norway during the Second World War. The twists, turns, devious disguises and splendid schemes come thick and fast as Biggles, Ginger and Algy evade the clutches of the Nazis again and again. One of the best Biggles stories I have ever read, which is high praise.
B17 This book was on my shelf for many years, but somehow unread...Early moments of WW2, situated in Norway.It nicely describes the mayhem after a Nazi conquest.Was surprised to find members of the regular German army & officers, expressing their attitude towards Gestapo & Nazi's
The reason is because I bought it and Biggles Learns to Fly as a pair and I was not impressed with the other one.Fortunately, this one is a bit better; at least there is an actual story to it, where Biggles Learns to Fly consisted of Biggles getting shot down and fighting his way back to allied lines over and over again.There’s nothing too deep going on here.
It’s an adventure story that ten year old boys will like because there’s lots of action (though surprisingly for a war story Biggles never kills anyone)and no mention of… girls.
I never realized how important that was until I read this book.
In 1940, Biggles finds himself in Oslo with a Norwegian passport when suddenly the city is full of Germans. From there on it's full action until the last page. This is supposed to be one of the better Biggles books and that seems plausible.
this is the best biggles book for me due to the cliffhangers at almost every end in each chapter. It narrates the incidents that occur between initial occupation of Norway by the Nazi armies during world war 2.
This is definitely one of the best Biggles adventures, set on a mysterious island in the North Atlantic. And it cantains perhaps the first ever description of BASE jumping in print. Read it to find out more!
Von Stalhein speelt weer mee. Moet ik nog meer zeggen?
Revisiting a childhood friend.
Loved it! I definitely think it is the best Biggles story out of the lot. If you like a fast paced book with cliffhangers then this is for you.
As a boy I loved the whole sense of adventure and courage under fire that Biggles represented. As a man, I realise that these stories have helped me grow up.
