https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20174424-city-of-stairs
Adult fantasy.A highly original story involving gods resurrected in a modern world – how could I not be drawn to this?
Set in an early industrial world where the two major nations are Bulikov (modeled loosely on Russia) and Saypur (modeled loosely on India), this story starts as a murder mystery and develops into a high fantasy of world-changing magic.
Centuries ago, Bulikov had a pantheon of active gods who led their mortal worshippers to victory and made them the dominant world power through magic.
Supposedly all the gods either died or disappeared, and soon Saypur was the dominant world power, using science and technology to conquer.
My favorite books transcend genre. This one was particularly compelling in that it mixes fantasy with an alt-world of cold, Lenin-era ambiance. The premise is that gods once actually walked the earth, but then man killed them all. The story of the book follows the consequences of this action. This is a great, meaty fantasy and I highly recommend it for the world building and fantastic characters, including a kick-ass female lead. One of my faves of 2016.
4.5/5 starsA truly wonderful start to a trilogy and also one of the most original world-building I’ve ever had the chance to experience in a novel.City of Stairs is the first book in the Divine Cities trilogy written by Robert Jackson Bennett and let me tell you guys something, this is one of those series that has been sitting in my TBR pile for way too long; since March 2017.
The story is a murder mystery in, taking place in a high fantasy world that also has some elements of sci-fi, but I do know that this is a great book; it even almost made it to my “favorites” shelves!The plot in City of Stairs began with a murder.
The complexity of the story is built well and is by no means a dizzying array of foreign place names and concepts:The city of Bulikov has been conquered by the Saypur people, its powerful divinities killed or missing, and the history of its religion erased.
Much like Greek and Indian gods, the Divinities of Bulikov were very present in their followers' lives.
Shara is a covert operative who has come to Bulikov intending to discover why scholar Efrem Pangyui, who was researching various miracles and mysteries of the gods, has been murdered.
💥 August 13, 2018: the omnibus edition of the slightly scrumptious Divine Cities trilogy is on sale at $2.99! 💥● Aww Yeah We Are So Doing this Again Buddy Reread (AYWASDtABR™) with some People of Stupendelicious Good Taste (PoSGT™) over at BB&B ●Previous rating: 8-10 stars. I obviously read the book VERY wrong the first time around. New rating : 20 stars. Now that's more like it.➽  And the moralsssssss of this reread are : This book is so Bloody Shrimping Scrumptious (BSS™) I might die. Or w
And that's about enough of that, because if you read the book and end up thinking it's pure crap, I'm pretty sure you will (choose all that apply): 1-never let me hear the end of it 2-rehash it until the end of days 3-kick my (view spoiler)[lovely (hide spoiler)] ass 3-make me read YA Paranormal Romance until my dying day.
Because, despite the very thought-provoking questions Bennett raises, the book is fun to read.
Ha.Yes, this is me expressing my excitement in a very subdued, mature way.►► And the moral of this calm, cool and collected review is: this book is entertaining, thought-provoking, intelligent and captivating.
It turned out to be a sneaky novel that paraded about like a police procedural in the beginning but wind up being a god-slaying action adventure and political coup.
As a mystery and eventually a political novel, it turns out pretty awesome, but as an epic fantasy that masquerades as a modern land of industry after the assassination of all the gods that could bend reality to their will, the novel's pretty freaking fantastic.
Their mashups were delightful.But the question is: How does anyone transform such humble mystery beginnings into a nearly hopeless epic battle against truly reality-warping gods?I'm at a loss to explain.
Actual Review: 4.5 Stars City of Stairs is, at its heart, a murder mystery, with a hull of geopolitical strife & fueled by a peculiar magic that isn't totally understood even by the story's main characters.
But because the situations Bennett has created are so complex with many different moving pieces to consider, I'm willing to wait & allow my understanding fully develop before I let it bother me.Would recommend to anyone looking for a fresh, bizarre, & beautifully crafted story that's (way) outside of the box!This review and other reviews of mine can be found on Book Nest!
► What a cruel, marvelous, surprising little thing.STEP 1 : Be intrigued by this complex, original and fascinating world-building whose layers still hide so many gems (I'm sure of it).
STEP 4 : Be amazed and a little in love with these FEMALE LEADS who put to shame every traditional Fantasy story which let us think that women are either queens or whores (tell me I'm wrong).
STEP 10 : Be aware that I overlooked some flaws, and I'm not even ashamed : mostly, a little too much telling in some parts and a deus-ex-machina-like character (view spoiler)[Sigrud's help seems a lot like it, to be honest - I still love him, duh.
(I love being right.) With City of Stairs, I think that RJB has done something really impressive: fans of his early work will see plenty of what they have come to love about Robert’s work, but new readers looking for an exciting, kick-ass story in a deep setting will enjoy this book too.
Readers love great books, but people fall in love with great characters, and in City of Stairs, Robert Jackson Bennett introduces one in a way that is clever, graceful, and over the top all at once.
I was starting to think that maybe I didn't love fantasy quite as much as I thought any more, but this year is turning out great.
Both Robert Jackson Bennet and N K Jemisin have written brilliant books that keep me glued to the page while at the same time challenging me to re-think some of my assumptions on what fantasy can do as a genre.Set in a world formerly ruled by Divinities and their whims, Bulikov is far from its former glory as the centre of the world and the seat of the Gods - most of it was destroyed together with its Gods.
Very thorough world building and extremely thought-provoking story, but when it was over...?I just wasn't moved enough to grab the next book.I'm pretty sure it's just me because this sucker has really high ratings and the vast majority of my friends LOVED it.
At first, I thought I would love it, but by the last bit, I was just wanting it to be over so I could tick this one off my list...The book seems to be a mash-up of fantasy, alternate history, mystery, and spyish stuff.
However, there are a multitude of fabulous glowing reviews, so check them out before crossing this book off your list.
Saypur and the Continent hate one another, completely oblivious that each is now the product of the other."Into this hate-ridden, history-oriented city comes an inconspicuous woman, one Shara Thivani, cultural ambassador of Saypur.
It is a great story, a tale with many beginnings, numerous versions, built on the current of events, back-stories of a colourful array of characters that morph and develop (and sometimes shed their skins) frequently flipping the tale upside down with breathtakingly paced twists.In addition to the dazzling plot and the overwhelming richness of the Bulikov city-verse, I have to say that for a long time I have not been able to identify with the main protagonist the way I did with Shara.
City of Stairs is provocative, disturbing and unsettling and undoubtedly one of my best reads this year.
Highly recommended.Other Divine Cities: 2.
I have read and enjoyed some fantasy books of the light version, but these were few and far in between.
Give me LOADS of fantasy and small pinches of religion and politics and I am a happy guy.That said, I must have added and removed Robert Jackson Bennet's City of Stairs half a dozen times from my TBR list due to either great reviews or reviews highlighting the politics/religion.
(Even though everyone is not human) RJB dished up a murder mystery embroiled in those dreaded things called politics and religion.
As it turns out, City of Stairs is all that and more, being a sophisticated and cerebral cocktail of a multitude of different genre elements, including magic, mystery, and philosophy.Years ago, magic was lost in the central city of Bulikov, then known as the Seat of the World, when its Divinities were killed by a Saypuri hero known as the Kaj. Throwing off the yoke of the Continentals, the Kaj led the rebellion to victory, conquering their conquerors and passing the Worldly Regulations which outlawed the possession and use of divine objects and miracles, even the worshipping of the old gods.
That post is making me re-think genre, and rather than being scared, it's made me excited for the future generation of writers.City of Stairs is a small, punchy story in a big, big world.
Expect excellent world-building, but it has so much more than that.The characters, for one.Sigurd starts off as fun and a bit of an archetypical badass Northman.
It's truly magnificent, and I want you to read City of Stairs right now.This is the [insert genre] novel you didn't even know you were waiting for.
He stuffed the book with all kinds of problems and issues that he mentioned on the side, but didn't focus on so that after half the book my brain felt like it was boiling because I could not understand what the author was trying to say anymore, where he was going and what the main problem actually was.
All in all, I didn't like all the layers that the book had, although I understand that many other people loved them, I wasn't captivated or even interested in the world-building.
What a beautiful book! The world building was so impressive and the characters are brilliant. I am missing Shara and Sigrud already and I only just finished the book. Sigrud made me think very much of Logen Ninefingers in the Abercrombie books, and Shara was like any of the strong female leads in a Brandon Sanderson book. Put the two together and we had a little bit of magic.This was a new author to me but he came very highly recommended by many Goodreads readers. The sequel is supposed to be good too. I can't wait:)
Sale Alert: The entire trilogy if up for sale for OMG $2.99. That is a steal of a deal hereI should have hated this story. It shouldn’t have worked for me at all for a few reasons.  - There is no love story. Well that isn’t specifically true. There is a story that involves two people who were a couple in the past but really that is it. In the present tense of the story there isn’t any romantic hopefuls. I love having someone in by books to ship even if nothing comes from it for books and books.
I love having someone in by books to ship even if nothing comes from it for books and books.② - It isn’t my typical fantasy set up.
But the reason I held on and finished the entire thing was because I loved the city, Shara and her secretary Sigrud.
I also loved that he was not beautiful but came from a distant land with scars, horrors and a devastating past.
That is what I felt like in this story.I loved the magic, gods and revelations that were made as the story got going.
Consider yourself warned!)  “The Divine may have created many hells, but I think they pale beside what men create for themselves.” Once upon a time, gods walked the earth, performing miracles and leading their followers in the ways they desired to go.
“The world is a coward… It does not change before your face; it waits until your back is turned, and pounces…” While I loved the setting and the characters and the mystery of the story, again I have to say that my favorite aspect of the book was the religious/philosophical element.
The Divine may have created many hells, but I think they are pale beside what men created for themselvesWhere do I begin with this read...hmmm, I honestly don't know. It was...*no no* I feel *that's not it* Oh boy, I am speechless people. This book was flawlessly penned and beautifully told. My emotions literally ran from one extremity to the next. This book I can say is (so far ) my best read of 2016.Guys it has Everything!!! Mr Bennet ( my first read from this author )has ripped open my chest
This book I can say is (so far ) my best read of 2016.Guys it has Everything!!!
I cried, scream, fainted and cheered for the characters of this book.
It's not often that I like all the characters in a book but in this one I did.
Usually I'd get annoyed at characters making stupid choices, but I had none of that (useless ) feelings in this read.
This book is a must read for those who have not done so already.
I can't wait to get my hands on Book two.
Get this book and read it Now...*waiting* I mean Now dammit!!
As a fantasy novel, it is a damn good one!When I read the beginning, I rated it 3 star.
After reading the end this novel, I think it is not a true mystery story.
I wish this novel could use more mystery routines to make it a good true mystery story, it has so much potential.If I read this novel mainly as a fantasy novel, it is an easy 5-star.
With that kind of reading attitude, I believe readers could detect the foreshadowing parts, and guess the plot twists at later parts of the novel.
Divine Cities falls right into this category of "Why in the world did it take me so long to read this?
Why have you made war in far places, and shed blood in strange lands?And they said to Her: "You blessed us as Your people, and we rejoiced, and were happy.
I also made the mistake of waiting too long to write this review and without taking any notes - I was too absorbed reading and physical books are hard for note-taking!This review can also be found at Booknest
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Glamorisation of Suffering: "City of Stairs" by Robert Jackson BennettWhen is it necessary to kill a character to get a point across?
By the time we get to the point when things get moving, I’ve already seen how damaging his religious upbringing had been to him.
His death is just lazy writing.
In fact, his death serves no narrative purpose and hence, it saps the very directive it was supposedly delivering.
Welp, here's another one I guess I am the oddball out on.
There were hints of exciting things that might be coming, but that's all they were, little glimpses.
The writing was good and it's definitely an "it's me, not you" thing.
Took that trademark idea from my friend Sarah - see her review linked below and check it out for a proper one.
This is just not for me, I guess.
Buddy read with Buddies Books and Baubles, even though I am starting late.My friend Sarah and Choko LOVED this, so hopefully I will too.
A blend of urban fantasy, intelligence services, espionage with various gods thrown into the action. The book was definitely a slow burn getting better and better as it went along. The last 75 pages were great. This is setup well for the next two books in the series which I shall be reading.
In the end, we're all tea drinkers.Let's leave that standing there for a moment, as I will come back to it later.Robert Jackson Bennet's "City of Stairs" takes place in the fictional city of Bulikov.
Nowadays Saypur is the leading nation of the world and they conquered the continent and outlawed worship or even talk of the divinities.When a saypuri historian is killed in Bulikov agent Shara Thivani arrives accompanied by her Dreyling (think viking) secretary Sigrud.
The continent and Saypur are basically each other's antithesis in many cultural aspects, but tea serves as a common denominator and is Robert Jackson Bennet's way of telling us that we are all equal.
Why have you made war in far places, and shed blood in strange lands?”And they said to Her: “You blessed us as Your people, and we rejoiced, and were happy.
Is this not what You said?”And Olvos was silent.This is the fantastic intro to the unique and thought provoking fantasy story that is City of Stairs.
It all made for an interesting read and Bennett's engaging writing style and down to earth characters made sure the story was every bit as engaging as it was interesting.The world building was excellent.
The late 19th Century setting is underutilized in secondary world fantasy books and gave this story a fresh feel.
“The Divine may have created many hells", he says, "but I think they pale beside what men create for themselves.”    2.5 Stars: ✰✰ I had to take just a little bit of a hiatus from Goodreads due to some personal and family emergencies, combined with a busy two weeks at work, and finals week for school. But I'm back now =]. This was one of the most frustratingly inconsistent books I have read in a very long time. I very literally hated half of it, and yet simultaneously really loved the other ha
I've read books (like many of Neil Gaiman's books) that were not character driven and loved them, but this book this didn't work for me.
For a book with such excellent writing and worldbuilding, I was shocked to find the story in this book to be almost completely bland.
As in, I can blurt out the first weird bizarre thing that comes to my mind, that nobody has ever heard of before, but that doesn't mean I'm being brilliantly creative.
Combine the inconsistent story, with the poor presentation of characters, and just generally VERY weird content - I don't think this is a book I'll be recommending anytime soon.
Now, Bulikov is a conquered city, squirming under the foot of powerful Saypur.
Working against her, however, is the uncomfortable fact that it looks like the powerful city leader that she'll need to ingratiate to help her navigate the murky tunnels of Bulikov's politics just happens to be her college boyfriend - and she ended that relationship on a rather unpleasant note.Of course, as Shara digs into the circumstances of the crime, what she uncovers is far larger than a single murder.
it does a great job of portraying real people caught in a problematic political situation.There are parallels with our world - this 'feels' like an alternate 18th century (photography has just been invented).
Good world building with an intriguing secondary world that resembled a cross between late 19th century Eastern Europe and the Middle East.Bennett's city of Bulikov reminded me a bit of Ul Qoma in China Mieville's The City & the City.
A city that exists on the skeletal remains of divine beings long dead.Bennett packs a lot of ideas into a relatively lowish page count.
He built a whole story on "what if a whole country forgot they ever were a country." Or Mievile's The City & the City -"what if you lived in a city where you were brainwashed into "unseeing" half of the city."The obvious central idea in this book if I were to pick one that Bennett could have really made something of was the suppression of any mention of the Divine.
