https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121732.Surprised_by_Joy
C.S. Lewis, the man that "thought his way to God" (according to the back of the book), isn't really all man - he's part reading machine.
Me neither, but this operational definition fits into his scheme of finding God. Enamored with Joy, Lewis sought to experience it as often as possible - in reading great books, listening to music, experiencing nature, etc, etc.
As the book draws to a close, Lewis is truly surprised by a God who cares, a "true mythology" (the Christian narrative), and the creator of joy.
There often seems to be a lot that I don't get first time through.This is a wonderful book with some less than wonderful parts.
The book is valuable simply on the level of a biography and personal account history.
In my generation basic math, reading, grammar skills, along with at least rudimentary knowledge of history, and social studies was "required" to pass from grade to grade and then graduate.)Aside from this however and on deeper levels the book deals with Lewis' rejection of all things spiritual, mystical, metaphysical or religious and decision to become an atheist.
Great. Finished yet again in November of 2017. And again in January of 2018.
Lewis explains that he got three stabs of joy in his youth: once from the a model garden in a biscuit-tin lid that his brother had made, once while reading Beatix Potter's Squirrel Nutkin, and once catching a phrase from Longfellow's poem The Saga of King Olaf.
Lewis contends that these stabs of Joy are glimpses of the divine, and that they guided him inevitably to the Christian belief that characterized his later life.What's truly amazing about this book, to me, is how closely it follows my own life.
Lewis followed up on this by investigating Norse mythology more closely, and subsequently stopped receiving stabs of Joy from it when it became an academic investigation isntead of something he did for pure pleasure.
I've been a long-time reader of many of the classic Lewis works (Mere Christianity, Narnia, etc.) and even some lesser known works (Till We Have Faces).
But after I read this intuitive book, His novels shine with a new light, and it brought my enjoyment of them to a whole new level.
S. LEWIS:-He had a certain condition as a child where he couldn't move either of his thumbs.
It's this condition that drove him to read.-One of his favorite authors as a child (and adult) was George MacDonald.
He was one of the very few Christian authors he read.
Most of the Sehnsucht took place while reading poetry or literature, and if not, it was because it transported him to the places in those stories.
(Incidentally, this may explain why my generation seems to hate reading so much and why modern culture as a whole is striving to recover a love for reading in children.)I think Lewis hit upon it when he described myths as “lies breathed through silver.” We all long for stories and enjoy them so much because we are looking for that One Story in which we are all players.
Libro autobiografico in cui C.S. Lewis racconta la storia del suo passaggio dall'ateismo al cristianesimo. La sua fu una conversione lenta, sofferta, tormentata, e quando infine giunse all’ammissione dell’esistenza di Dio definì se stesso il “convertito più riluttante di tutta l’Inghilterra”.Qui C.S. Lewis descrive il suo itinerario spirituale ripercorrendo la lunga strada della sua vita.Affascinante, sorprendente.
At first, I had expected it to be the story of how Lewis met his wife, Joy, as was portrayed in the movie SHADOWLANDS with Anthony Hopkins.
Upon learning that such was not the case, I then expected it to be a straight-forward autobiographical account of Lewis' life.
Early on in SURPRISED BY JOY, Lewis states that the best part of any biography is the stuff at the beginning, the stuff that deals with the subject in his or her youth.
SURPRISED BY JOY doesn't really give us a glimpse into Lewis' professional life, and that was what disappointed me about it.
C. S. Lewis, one of J. R. R. Tolkien's best friends and creator of the Narnia Chronicles, among others. Pure genius. Period.
Not quite an autobiography24 May 2014 It is a little difficult to categorise this book since while in part it is an autobiography, Lewis goes to great pains to exclaim otherwise. One could also suggest that it falls into a category of Christian literature known as a testimony: a story that is told by the author as to how they became a Christian. However this particular book sort of does not follow the two forms that that type of literature takes, which are:1) I was a really, really, really bad p
As I have suggested this book does not necessarily follow either of these forms because while it is closer to the first form, normally the writer of that style of testimony goes to great pains to emphasis how bad and evil they were so that the contrast of their current lives acts as evidence of God having worked in them (and the problem with that form is that the author tends to spend so much time emphasising their bad aspects, they have have little to no time to outline how God has changed them, as well as the statements about how they have changed being quite subjective, and as such need to rely upon other people as references to their changed life).
Recommended for: Ages 15 to Adult (mentions of sinful behavior by the other boys at school, and mentions of certain temptations)Many years ago, I read the first few chapters of this book as research for a speech on C.S. Lewis.
I don't think I would have quite understood the purpose of the book in the frame of mind I was in at the time, and without having read The Pilgrim's Regress.Lewis covers his childhood much in the way that any man might cover his childhood in an autobiography, relating the general atmospheres of his home and schools, notable events, and particular memories.
This was interesting, but considering the very lengthy and detailed set-up, the denouement was hasty and disappointing.
It barely brought together any of the varied strands he'd investigated; especially, his final treatment of “Joy” is relegated to one brief paragraph on the final page, and he fails to explain how Christianity satisfies/fulfills this feeling.
T. Wright calls "signposts" and "places where heaven and earth meet." Or, as Van Til says so well: “Christianity stands...in antithetical relation to the religions of the world, but it also offers itself as the fulfillment of that of which the nations have unwittingly had some faint desire.”
I liked learning more about C.S. Lewis's life.
He compared an event in his life to some ancient poem that I had never read, and so most of that side of the book was lost on me.
However, even if I didn't understand a lot of the references, I still liked reading the book.
I did wish the book talked a little more about his later life and about the people who really helped convince him there was a God (like J.R.R. Tolkien!
I will probably re-read this again when I am older and I will probably pick up more of the deep things in this book.
'I never read an autobiography in which the parts devoted to the earlier years were not far the most interesting.' C.S. Lewis Surprised by Joy'This book is written partly in answer to requests that I would tell how I passed from Atheism to Christianity […] The book aims at telling the story of my conversion and is not a general autobiography, still less 'Confession' like those of Augustine or Rousseau.
This means in practice that it gets less like a general autobiography as it goes on.' C.S. Lewis Surprised by Joy'A spiritual thriller' – The Sunday TimesFor an atheist, unfamiliar with the experience of God, this does not read much like a conversion story at all.
However, I love his imaginative works!
Cause he had this curious thing for what he called 'Northernness.' And he explained it this way: "a vision of huge, clear spaces hanging above the Atlantic in the endless twilight of Northern summer, remoteness, severity… almost like heartbreak, the memory of Joy itself..." And it was this Northenness that fueled his literary imagination.
And you can see it, taste it, and smell it in his fictional works.And it got me thinking...
passion is a interesting thing.
But, cloaked in Lewis' imagination...
"Northenness," thanks to the likes of Lewis and his forebears, is one of literature's great gifts.
~~~In Cartea de rugaciuni scrie ca trebuie "sa'i aducem multumiri lui Dumnezeu pentru marea lui slava", ca si cand ii datoram mai multe multumiri pentru ceea ce este El cu necesitate decat pentru orice alt beneficiu pe care ni'l confera; asa si facem si a'l cunoaste pe Dumnezeu inseamna a sti acest lucru.~~~Plimbarea si discutia sunt doua mari placeri, dar este o greseala sa le amesteci.
Dumnezeu este, daca imi pot permite s'o spun, foarte lipsit de scrupule.~~~Cuvintele compelle intrare, siliti'i sa intre, au fost atat de denaturate de oameni nelegiuiti, incat ne cutremuram in fata lor; dar, intelese cum se cuvine, ele masoara nemarginirea milei Divine.
I admire his ability to have navigated through those exhausting years with a stoicism that enabled him to face the shenanigans of adolescence (such as the "fagging" system, in his case, with elder Bloods at the English boarding schools) all while retreating into a fertile and robust imagination where ideas could be cultivated and a keen intellect refined largely unscathed.The primary subject of the autobiography, of course, is the author's faith journey from early encounters with religion to a decided godlessness following his mother's death, then an eventual acquiescence to theism and in time a full embrace of Christianity.
With nothing either sentimental or sophomoric about his account, the expression of depth and sincerity of thought ring true and are refreshing.This book was not only a surprise, it was also a joy!
It traces his life from childhood experiences in church as the grandson of a clergyman to ignoring God as a youth to the trenches in which he fought in WWI to his Oxford days as a full-out Atheist to his close friendships with JRR Tolkien and a few others that sped along his ultimate conversion.
But who can duly adore the Love which will open the high gates to a prodigal who is brought in kicking, struggling, resentful, and darting his eyes in every direction for a chance of escape?"My only complaint is that because it is a spiritual autobiography, he talks about a lot of the interesting things that happened in his life only insofar as they relate to his spiritual growth.
This was a very intellectual engaging book for me. I am amazed at the range and quantity of books that Lewis read (and in original languages at that). Had to even look up a few words to get at what he was trying to communicate to the reader. I don't think that one needs to be a Christian to enjoy this book. His search for truth and joy is something that all humans can understand.
Have some mixed feelings on this one.
I love reading about his conversion and philosophical reasoning processes, but the chapter where he addressed the pederasty (student to student, not adult to student) and other issues going on at one of the schools he attended left me pretty disturbed.
I was not satisfied by his exploration of greater vs.
lesser moral evils.
I'd have to reread that chapter and do some serious pondering/praying, but .
yeah.
Not totally at rest regarding that.
I also felt that he went on some random bunny trails throughout the book.
However, again, I loved other parts of it.
I'm pleasantly surprised by Surprised by Joy. I've attempted a couple of his other books which I couldn't get my head around, and indeed I have read other books I understood better but rated less than this one, but there really was something quite special about Surprised by Joy which kept me enthralled to the end.
Maybe it was the journey, maybe because I knew a lot of the places he mentioned, maybe because I saw a bit of Lewis in me (only without the same intellect).
Whatever it was, It's a book I've put off reading for a long time, but glad to have had the opportunity to finally read it.
1) I am rather dismayed at the education system CS Lewis had to go through - it was hard to read about school after school of terrible pedagogy, abuse and neglect.2) I greatly appreciate his intellectual honesty - I now trust much more his quick refutation of certain ideas in other books, because I see that he once held these ideas in the highest regard, loved them and lived them; and therefore, rejected their most compelling version.
In this autobiographical account of how he tumbled accidentally into the Christian faith, Lewis talks about the first time he went to his alma mater, Oxford.
I had come out of the station on the wrong side and been all this time walking into what was even then the mean and sprawling suburb of Botley.
I did not see to what extent this little adventure was an allegory of my whole life.In Surprised by Joy Lewis traces his intellectual development in general parallel with his formative years and higher education.
It helps to know how Lewis defines joy: an unsatisfied desire which is itself more desirable than any other satisfaction.
Lewis tried to determine the moral and spiritual development of his life generally that lead him to his (as of writing the book in his fifties) then viewpoints.
Of great import to this is what he called "Joy" and his imaginative life.You see, Lewis, like all of us had some very deep ups and downs.
He had had this sensation before, and it captured his heart, and on a long, winding and complicated journey, he would learn what this "Joy" really was about and where, or to Whom, it would lead...I really liked how the intellectual workings of Lewis' mind were put on display.
Mostly, I was charmed by this painstaking account of a spiritual pilgrimage, by CSL's awkward earnestness, if not his logic. It appears that he was led, kicking and trying to wriggle out of Divinity's fierce embrace, pinned by his own scrupulous honesty and reasoning. That he still sympathized with those who still cling to their atheist beliefs was surprising, but when he admitted that he still cringed at their bad arguements,he endeared himself to me forever as a sensitive, scrupulous man of integrity.
There is so much that I love (absolutely love!) about this book.
First of all, it's a book by CS Lewis.
Secondly, it's about his life.
Thirdly, it's about his life with learning and books.
Fourthly, it's a story of a journey of thought from atheism to Christianity.
Many of the quotes that people love so much come from this book.
This is definitely one to reread many times, and I can't wait to look into some of the books he recommends.
There is something about Lewis that makes me think I could have been friends with him too… At least I hope.
One can learn so much from C. S. Lewis, feast on the beautiful language and sophisticated literary and historical references, not quite get everything, but still revel in the mysteriousness of it all. I loved this book for more than one reason. For me, it wasn't only about him becoming Christian; this book is an honest account of Lewis' self-discovery and the series of experiences--pleasant and otherwise--that molded his personality and made him the legend that he was, has been, and continues to be.
I really love this. CS Lewis was a phenomenal writer. Reading how his life effected what he thought and wrote about is truly interesting. He proves to us, in this book, what an incredible master of words he was. He truly did belong in academia. Yet, I love how CS Lewis never demanded that of other people. In each book I read of his, I can tell that he always wrote to meet people where they were.
An excellent book! For C.S. Lewis fans and more. If interested in the full discussion from the Inklings Series, join in! http://booksandbeverages.org/2017/01/...
Lewis's famous, if incomplete, autobiography. You can't pretend to understand Lewis if you haven't walked with him through some of these dark and troubling times.Recommend you also read a biography like Alan Jacobs' . ISBN 0060872691.
