https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28251250-white-noise
The best of all the marginal note stupidity from anonymous though, is the discussion the Gladney's have on the way to the mall, chapter 17.
The family is making idle small talk, trying to remember the name of the "...surfer movie I saw once where they travel all over the world." They go back and forth incorrectly guessing the title, before getting swept away into another discussion.
You knew the real name of the movie so you thought you would write it down in the margin?
And the jackass got the name of the movie wrong - it's ENDLESS SUMMER, you dumb fuck.
I had this babysitter named Bernice who also was the postmistress of our wind swept Kansas town. My mom would drop me off at the post office which I'm pretty sure using the post office as a day care may have been against regulation, but this was small town America. Bernice was ultra-religious and obsessed with death. She had me convinced that she had a pact with GOD that when her time came she would ascend on a cloud in the same manner as Jesus Christ.   She told me if I prayed fervently I too w
They are forced to evacuate their home and Jack becomes exposed to the deadly toxic cloud changing his fears from not knowing when or how he is going to die, to having a realized version of his death that starts with a kernel of fear and grows into a corn field of panic.
"I'm still sad, Winnie, but you've given my sadness a richness and depth it has never known before."She turned away, blushing.I said, "You're more than a fair-weather friend--you're a true enemy."She turned exceedingly red.I said, "Brilliant people never think of the lives they smash, being brilliant."Jack lurches onward after the magic pill and becomes more and more unstable as he spends more and more time in his own mind obsessed about a future death rather than living in the present.
I found myself comparing this book to a new family TV series with Eugene Levy called 'Schitt's Creek'.
The dialogue is hilarious in both 'White Noise' and 'Schitt's Creek' between the parents and kids.
He reminded me of one of the characters on 'Schitt's Creek'.
Most of this book was comical to me.
Jack has been married 4 'times'?
It was also funny that Jack worried about not being able the speak German even though he created a special program at the college where he teaches on Hitler studies.
Did I read this book right?
I thought it was an easy FUN READ....
Giving DeLillo the benefit of the doubt, and assuming he could have written believable dialog, what is the point of not using his gifts to the best of his ability, instead irritating the reader with substandard rubbishy 'conversations' that draw attention to their own lack of believability?(b) "satire" whose effect is similar to assaulting the reader with a blunt instrument.
At best, (if one believes he is capable of writing well) in this book he's being incredibly lazy and just phoning it in.
DeLillo has already made the questionable choice to filter the entire story through the voice of a first-person narrator who was already irritating by page 2 and isn't getting any more likeable.
It's like when the grocery store parking lots stay full when snow is on the way because people think they may be stuck inside their house forever.It's like how the news can report on how Coke can kill you so you start drinking Diet Coke, but then the artificial sweetener can give you cancer so you try to just drink water, but there could be bacteria in it unless you use a filter.I loved this book.It took me a long time to read it, not because I didn't like it, but because I wanted to savor it, take my time with it, underline quotes, let the dialogue marinate a little bit.So, I should tell you that you can't go into the book looking for a thriller or an apocalyptic dystopian novel.
But a great commentary would have been too meaningful and after all, this is the age of negation and disorder wherein everything is turned inside out, and to live fully without fear is to kill freely without hesitation.
This is the age of futility wherein the best artists have to be indifferent or even hostile to supreme coherence and only depictions of anti-heroism will be praised and given National Book Awards.DeLillo is a talented writer, but he wasted his talent in this work and missed an important opportunity to demand change.
Στην πορεία αντιλήφθηκα πως το επαναλαμβανόμενο θέμα που θα έπρεπε να με αγγίξει και να με προβληματίσει, ίσως και να με εντυπωσιάσει, ήταν πως ο κάθε άνθρωπος ζει τη ζωή του με τον τρόμο του θανάτου και ολα τα υπόλοιπα είναι απλώς ..«Λευκός θόρυβος».
Είναι αφελές και υπερβολικά δραματικό να παρακινούμαστε για δράση σαν να έχουμε χάσει την ανθρωπιά μας λόγω της σύγχρονης οικονομίας και του πολιτισμού.
Ίσως να αποτελεί πολύ καλό αναγνωστικό υλικό για δευτεροετείς φοιτητές φιλοσοφίας που καλούνται να ξεπεράσουν τους εαυτούς τους και να αναπτύξουν ιδέες γύρω απο την παθολογία της καταστρεπτικής σύγχρονης κοινωνίας.
(and the video is amazing; I would rather you watch it than read my nonsensical ramblings)************This book smells like napalm.
It sounds like air being slowly released from a balloon.
People look at me as if they want to know my secrets.
Not if you look like that it's not.Fear of death.
Fear of life.
Might look like this:Where were you when James Dean died?
Babette has very important hair.
Ask the big important questions.
Cable tv.Sex and death.
Death.
Death.
"et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et ceteraIn the midst of life we are in death et cetera.
March, 2018:On a second read, I think I got another 2-3% of it than last time. I adore this book.January, 2016:I really enjoyed this, but I don't completely understand it yet. I've got about 95% of it, but that last 5% I think may only come after some rereading, and maybe 20 additional years of life experience. It feels like a book you could read several times over a life and always find a different meaning. Heavily metaphorical, very philosophical, clever. Death, consumerism, fear, modern life, existentialism, nihilism, etc.
We experience these things every day of our lives but what good does it do if we find ourselves hurled back in time and we can’t even tell people the basic principles much less actually make something that would improve conditions.
Could you tell those people one little crucial thing that might save a million and a half lives?”Children, still unencumbered by fear of death, are better (and more mysterious) filters of information in the novel than the fear-stricken adults.
“What if death is nothing but sound....electrical noise….you hear it forever…sound all around…uniform, white.”      Think about that. Death: white noise. A metaphor for the substance of nothingness. However you wish to describe it, death casts a large black shadow on us. It covers human beings but not animals - because animals are not afraid of death. Get rid of that shadow, problem solved… What if there were a pill that that fixes the fear-of-death part of the brain and cures you of this "condi
“What if death is nothing but sound....electrical noise….you hear it forever…sound all around…uniform, white.”  
Death: white noise.
If you need help in deciding, read White Noise.
It is about death, the fear of dying, the meaningless white noise in our lives.
In fact Saul Bellow seemed ever present - his wit and 20th century angst, his way of tossing in philosophic discourse and intellectual musings, his deeply flawed characters that you love anyway.
We have these deep terrible lingering fears about ourselves and the people we love.

عنوانها: برفک؛ سر و صدای سفید؛ نویز سفید؛ نویسنده: دان دلیلو؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سوم ماه جولای سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: نویز سفید؛ نویسنده: دان دلیلو؛ مترجم: نوشین ریشهری؛ تهران، نغمه زندگی، 1390؛ چاپ دیگر: 1393؛ در 447 ص؛ شابک: 9789642882946؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی سده 20 م؛عنوان: سر و صدای سفید؛ نویسنده: دان دلیلو؛ مترجم: محمدصادق رئیسی؛ تهران، روزگار، 1392؛ در 368 ص؛ شابک: 9789643744779؛عنوان: برفک؛ نویسنده: دان دلیلو؛ مترجم: پیمان خاکسار؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1394؛ در 337 ص؛ شابک: 9786002295538؛ سبک سیاه و طنز، در کتابیکه جایزه ی بهترین کتاب ملی سال 1985 میلادی، در ایالات متحده را از آن خود کرده است.
داستان زندگی مردی ست که پنج بار ازدواج ناموفق داشته است.
No sense of the irony of human existence, that we are the highest form of life on earth and yet ineffably sad because we know what no other animal knows, that we must die."Don Delillo is a genius.Although it can be a bit fatalistic, it is a brutal satire about the modern life.
All the characters are products of the desensitization of the information age.
But at the end, death is thrown in Jack's face.
When death becomes a real and tangible thing for the characters, so it does for the reader, it is written so realistically.
Not only that, but the characters endure hundreds of meaningless facts and bits of tabloid information; studies show this, no studies show that.
The story pointed out that while Americans love to obsess about all the potentially horrible things that can happen, we refuse to take actions to prevent or minimize their impact because we don’t want to admit that they’re really possible.That’s why Americans will freak out if you try to spend a few hundred million dollars of tax money on something like shoring up the levees in New Orleans or making stricter building codes for hurricanes in Florida despite the fact that doing so would have saved many lives and countless billions in rebuilding costs before Hurricanes Katrina or Andrew.
It is nice to live in the land of plenty – food is merchandise, technology is merchandise, health is merchandise, education is merchandise, culture is merchandise… And everything is mass-produced and second-rate… And you can’t consume it all.Heinrich’s hairline is beginning to recede.
(People say the sunsets around here were not nearly so stunning thirty or forty years ago.) Man’s guilt in history and in the tides of his own blood has been complicated by technology, the daily seeping falsehearted death.Consuming becomes living… And consuming too much turns one’s thoughts into an annoying white noise… And then thanatomania and thanatophobia start creeping in… And there is nowhere to run in the land of plenty.
I saw to my consternation that I'd given two stars to this smirkfest yet stuck it on my Finally Threw it At the Wall shelf. This is a contradiction. So : One Star For You, Mr DeLillo. Fuck off.
I am having a very difficult time trying to decide if White Noise is actually an intelligent work which I completely failed to understand.
Or is it just one of those novels which try to sound all smart and deep and profound, but do not actually make much sense.The characters are all strange, the dialogue and prose is weird.
However, by the time I finished the book, I was so numbed by the absurd dialogue that I had already forgotten what it was that I had liked initially.Few examples of meaninglessness:"He looks like a man who finds dead bodies erotic." (This one takes the cake.)"The point of rooms is that they are inside.
This book should be read by everyone who is planning on dying. The teenage boy is the best character and he isn't given enough attention, but still, this book is well worth anyone's time. Don DeLillo helped inspire the likes of Bret Easton Ellis and Chuck Palahniuk. For that, I am thankful he and this book exist.
There are countless trips to the grocery store, where DeLillo's characters, including the insufferable Murray, can wonder zombie-like down the endless aisles, exchanging self-important banalities with each other.
Well, that's not true; I sort of wanted them all to die, so the book would end, and I could read something else.
My hesitation with reviewing this book comes from the inevitable fear that I've missed the entire point.
To be sure, there is a certain worrying narcissism in our culture, in which people want everything "on demand" and tailored to their personal tastes (to the point, at times, where no one else matters).
I like living in a wired, tapped-in culture.
Unfortunately, all of his writing seems to employ the same devices (shockingly frank, sparse writing about people with sparse souls - can you believe what's happened to America's values?) I was browsing through reviews of his (new?) book Falling Man, which apparently is a post September 11th character/civilization study, and it sounds like Delillo is up to his old tricks.
Someone mentioned that it includes the line "The crowd was skilled at being a crowd." Do you sort of feel like that line might also be in White Noise?
I think it might be in every Delillo book ever written.
Science's finest hour.”The noise; penetrating all the mediums surrounding, the buzz of TV, Radio, internet, mobiles; the fuss of commercial life, places filled with people and things, an unrest in quest of a solidarity between things and people, between things and happiness:It seemed to me that Babette and I, in the mass and variety of our purchases, in the sheer plenitude those crowded bags suggested, the weight and size and number, the familiar package designs and vivid lettering, the giant sizes, the family bargain packs with Day-Glo sale stickers, in the sense of replenishment we felt, the sense of well-being, the security and contentment these products brought to some snug home in our souls—it seemed we had achieved a fullness of being that is not known to people who need less, expect less, who plan their lives around lonely walks in the evening.The noise; prodding the subconscious mind, mocking at the helplessness which its silent reign enforces; a reign of confusion and despair, coercing to leap out while restricting the self with invisible limits, making one wonder if the limits could ever be crossed, if the fear could ever be assuaged.
La vita "durante" la vitaNon posso negare di avere faticato un po' nella comprensione (sempre che li abbia compresi...) di ogni libro di Delillo che ho letto.Questo Rumore bianco, del 1985, è un romanzo relativamente semplice e piacevole da leggere a un primo livello, anche se ci si accorge quasi subito che le situazioni descritte sono semplicemente assurde e quasi comiche.
Genitori meno assennati dei loro figlioletti, esimii studiosi di Hitler che non conoscono il tedesco (e che non studiano mai), coniugi relativamente giovani che parlano e si comportano come ottantenni (la frase più sensuale è: "Chi morirà prima?"), suore che non credono, mariti che quando la moglie confessa il tradimento chiedono "vuoi una cioccolata?" etc.Ma tutto questo, curiosamente, passa in secondo piano.
Two waves of strangeness collide in this wacky, Edward Albeeesque yarn of radiation via ultraconsumerism.
There is the Gladney clan: a bunch of misfits straight out of Wes Anderson.
Then there is the undertow of dread carried like a fog through wires and the air itself...
something that interests the likes of filmmaker Cronenberg.There is an obvious wit in the minutiae over-explained by the Gladneys.
I love the play/movie BUG because, similarly, it too relies on the claustrophobia inherent in the interactions with humanity and the delusions that one brain equals the world entire.
Unlike "Bug," the characters here are too strange to be endearing.
Parlare della trama banalizzerebbe il romanzo, ricchissimo di riflessioni sociologiche e anche filosofiche che si esprimono soprattutto nei dialoghi tra i protagonisti, sempre profondi pur nella quotidianità in cui si svolgono, quella di una famiglia americana.
Nella sinestesia che dà il titolo al libro è concentrata la tematica: siamo immersi, nella nostra vita di tutti i giorni, in un ininterrotto brusio di sottofondo, che, così come il colore bianco contiene tutti i colori, racchiude in sé le inquietudini e le paure che incombono sulla nostra esistenza, a partire dalle catastrofi che possiamo incontrare ogni giorno nel compimento di gesti quotidiani – le radiazioni dei televisori, delle radio, dei forni a microonde, dei cellulari-, fino a quelle, amplificate dai media, di natura ambientale, di fronte alle quali l’angoscia va esorcizzata trascorrendo lunghe ore in fila fra gli opulenti scaffali dei supermercati alla ricerca di prodotti che tengano luogo dell’infelicità in cui naufraghiamo, su suggerimento di slogan pubblicitari ingannevoli:” storie di fatti sovrannaturali ed extraterrestri.
*2017 "Maawuj, that bwessed awanjement, that dweam wiff-in a dweam" Award* for Most Pecuwer Maawuj in Wittawatur I Wed Thanatophobia Θ  et Il Intimidito Cornuto"Tanatos" by Mauricio García VegaAt its essence, White Noise is a dark and darkly comic novel about a college professor living in the shadow of death and haunted by erotic humiliation, il intimidito cornuto in the age of consumerism against a background of rhubarb racket (or, white noise).J.A.K. Gladney is the neurotic Chair of Hitler Stu
He and his wife suffer thanatophobia, a death anxiety extremis.
I found the novel both more edifying in substance and reader-friendly in its more traditional structure than Libra and Underworld, the other 2 DeLillo novels I've read.
Which is saying something for me given I'm no big fan of his because I find it difficult and vexing to read a novel with dialogue lacking in character delineation as in Underworld, a novel that often lapses into basically the same voice (Delillo's) for multiple characters.I give it a 4.5.
Εκείνο που ίσως με ξένισε εδώ -και μου κάνει εντύπωση που δεν το διάβασα σε κάποια κριτική ως τώρα - είναι μια κάποια αίσθηση υπερκάλυψης από πλευράς ύφους.
Κάπως σαν ένας άλλος συγγραφέας να αναλάμβανε κατά διαστήματα το "πηδάλιο", οδηγώντας το "πλοίο" σε κατευθύνσεις που δεν ήταν πάντα της αρεσκείας μου.
Για να γίνω συγκεκριμένος, υπάρχουν σημεία σουρεαλιστικά, διάλογοι καθαρά Pynchon-ικοί (προσκυνώ τη χάρη του!), μια αίσθηση παραλόγου, αποδόμησης και χάους, απόλυτα συντεταγμένου προφανώς και συμμετρικά δοσμένου, πλην όμως ενοχλητικού για τη δική μου οπτική.
Προφανώς, αυτό που -τρόπον τινά- ενόχλησε εμένα, για άλλους πιθανώς να αποτελεί το βασικό πλεονέκτημα του βιβλίου.
This is probably the most accessible of Delillo's works, the one which I could pull off my shelf, dust off it's weathered skin, and hand to you, saying, "This is what the master does best." Or something a little less Masterpiece Theatre-y, but you get my drift.It also contains a single line that probably sums up his entire literary career: "All plots move deathward." Wikipedia talks about the book being a "absurdist family drama combined with academic satire." Yeah, that's a good start.
The way we kill time, I guess you could say.My suggestion: Read it.
Read it to your family or someone laying in bed with you.
برفک ضمن اینکه جزو لیست 1001 کتاب پیش از مرگ هست، از بهترین کتابهای ادبیات پستمدرن هم بهشمار میره. داستانی که روایت تکهتکه داره، خط زمانی و سیر داستانی واضح نیست، شخصیتها از الگوی شخصیتپردازی معمول پیروی نمیکنند و اینطوریه که حتی شبیه همن! من فکر میکردم حواسم نبوده ولی یکی از دوستامم که بعد من داشت برفک رو میخوند، میگفت اسمها رو قاطی میکرده و فلانی رو فکر میکرده پسره، بعد دیده دختره. مشخصاً نویسنده روی شخصیتپردازی بهعمد کار نکرده. یعنی نمیشه بگیم ضعف نویسنده بوده؛ چون یه جاهایی جزییات ظریفی به ش
نمدونم این واقعاً ضعفه یا ویژگی سبکی.نکتۀ دوم اینه که داستان پست‌مدرن خیلی المان‌ها رو می‌شکنه یا تقلیل می‌ده.
اینو خیلی دوست داشتم.اما اگه بخوایم بحران و شخصیت‌پردازی رو ویژگی سبکی بدونیم و کاریش نگیریم، نمی‌شه از یه نکته‌ای گذشت: چقدر شخصیت‌ها حرف می‌زدن!
یه جاهایی که راوی با زنش داشت حرف می‌زد و دربارۀ رابطه‌شون بود، کاملاً واقعی و ملموس و شیرین بود.
اما نه که حس کنیم یه جاهایی نویسنده به جای شخصیت‌ها نشسته و اون عیب شخصیت‌پردازی‌ای که به‌عمد داشته، اینجا خودشو توجیه کنه؛ چون اگه شخصیت‌پردازی قوی باشه، دیگه نویسنده نمی‌تونه جای اونا رو بگیره.
Jack and Babette Gladney, live in a typical american town where Jack is an academic who teaches Hitler Studies (without knowing any German).
Jack seems to have been exposed to the chemical and is told he may or may not be in trouble and may or may not die from it at some point in the future, Jack discovers that Babette is so afraid of death that she has contacted a rather dubious scientist who has a drug that may "cure" the fear of death.
The reflections on death are funny and profound;"Doesn't our knowledge of death make life more precious?What good is a preciousness based on fear and anxiety?
