https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/942327.Ferien_auf_Saltkrokan
"ნუთუ არ მომცემს ფრთებს განთიადი, რომ დავესახლო მე ზღვის კიდეზე.."-კითხულობდა ვესტერმანის ცოლი. მერე ამოიოხრა და კითხვა განაგრძო. პელეს მეტის მოსმენა აღარ უნდოდა. ეს სიტყვები კი არასოდეს დაავიწყდება. მან წყნარად ჩაიბუტბუტა თავისთვის: "ნუთუ არ მომცემს ფრთებს განთიადი, რომ დავესახლო მე ზღვის კიდეზე.." განა დურგლისეული კარ-მიდამო ზღვის კიდეზე არაა?.."
The book opens on board a ferry boat on its way to an isolated island off Sweden's coast where Malker has impulsively rented a summer cottage sight unseen.
The cottage turns out to be dilapidated yet cozy, and the family is soon having little summer adventures, and getting to know the islanders.
The cover illustration is appealing and I like stories about both islands and families so I was really prepared to love this book.
I was also unconvinced by Tjorven, a seven year-old island girl, who, Lindgren assures us, has a sort of magnetic charm that enthralls all the characters, but to which I was impervious.
ასაკის მატებასთან ერთად ლიტერატურული გემოვნებაც იცვლება, ბავშვობაში წაკითხული წიგნებისგან მიღებულ ემოციებს უფრო სერიოზული ლიტერატურისგან მინიჭებული განცდები ენაცვლება. მაგრამ ჩვენც სალტროკელები ვართ ამ სიაში არ მოხვდა. დღესაც ისეთივე სიამოვნებით ვკითხულობ მელკერსონების მშვენიერი ოჯახის ამბებს; ახლაც ისევე ვნატრობ სალტროკაზე მოხვედრას და ჩორვენთან ერთად გასეირნებას.სკანდინავიის ქვეყნების, კერძოდ შვედეთისადმი ყოველთვის სიმპათიები გამაჩნდა, მაგრამ ასტრიდმა უბრალოდ შემაყვარა იგი.სიყვარული, სიკეთე, სული და გულია ხარ, ფრაუ ასტრიდ!
This is without a doubt my favorite book by Astrid Lindgren. I remember being twelve or so and saving up to buy my own copy. The book still remains on my bookshelf and I like to pick it up and read it every once in a while. It doesn't feel like a children's book when I read it. It simply feels like a wonderful and heartwarming story about children on Seatcrow island.It's definitely a book I'll be reading to my own children:)I recommend this book wholeheartedly!
Tyra, šmaikštu, genialu ir lengva. Lyg kvėpti vasarą.
If Enid Blyton Had Been Swedish, and a Bit EdgierThis is a warm and affectionate memoir of a close family's summer on a remote island, but I read it as a bit edgier, (and thus more interesting), than many of the reviewers who have comfy childhood memories of this book.
Leading the island pack is seven year old Tjorven, a willful independent neighbor girl who is usually at the center of the action.
The Melkerson children can be difficult or careless, but Lindgren draws them with affection, not judgment, and leaves us with a sweet and bracing memory of a real family during a real summer in a real place.
Few good people live here in peace, having simple jobs, great food, amazing landscapes and a lot of fun.Tjorven, 7 years old girl, who's having huge dog, named Båtsman and wild, strong and independent temper (she's easily can be placed in the gallery of such Lindgren characters as Pippi or Karlson).Pelle, same age, who's living here with his family in Summer and having wasps as pets.Stina, who's fighting with Tjorven for Pelle attention and having a little seal.Melker Melkersson, Epikhodov-like arrogant Pelle's father, who can't do anything right and tends a lot towards theatretical poses and speeches, but recieves a lot of love from his children.Johan and Niklas, his other two sons who are Tommy and Annika of this story.
I just love Astrid Lindgren so much and she is my childhood. I honestly want to jump into (almost) all of her stories and live their lives.
10-11 წლის ვიყავი პირველად რომ წავიკითხე და მას შემდეგ ზაფხული მის გარეშე უბრალოდ არ მოდის. ასტრიდი ბავშვობის საყვარელი მწერალია, ყველაფერი მიყვარს, მაგრამ ეს არ არის უბრალო წიგნი...მთელი ბავშვობის ოცნებად მექცა ზაფხულის სალკტროკაზე გატარება.  მახსოვს პირველად ერთი ამოსუნთქვით როგორ წავიკითხე, ბოლო ფურცლებს ვიზოგავდი, მეშინოდა, რომ შემდეგ წაკითხვაზე ასე ვეღარ მომეწონებოდა, თუმცა ყოველ შემდეგ გადაკითხვაზე ისევ ზღვა ემოციას მიტოვებს. უბრალოდ განსაკუთრებულია...
ასტრიდის წიგნებზე ცოტა არაადეკვატური შეფასების გაკეთება შემიძლია, ამიტომ უბრალოდ❤
Parasta kesäluettavaa - ja maailma tuntuu taas astetta valoisammalta paikalta<3
Once the sun comes out, however, the Melkersons discover just how charming Seacrow Island is.
From the old beyond her years little Tjorven and her dog to tomboyish girls always ready for adventure, the Melkerson boys have a magical summer.
It's only the eldest, Malin, age 19, who wonders when her time for a romantic adventure will come.This story was really slow to start off with and I had a hard time getting into it.
He's like a big child and relies on Malin as much as the boys do- if not more.
Their relationships with the other adults on the island could have been developed a bit more, as they were a bit cardboard/background, but it is, after all, a children's book!The only character I didn't care for was little Tjorven, a bossy six-year-old girl who manages to make most people, kids and adults both, do what she wants.
I have heard that often characters will not do what the author wants them to do; Tjorven may be a case in point.
Es ist einfach komisch, wenn man die Filme geschaut und Stina und Skrollan(?) lieben gelernt hat und sie im Buch (fast) gar keine Rolle spielen. Natürlich kam das Buch zuerst, aber ich bin mit der Serie aufgewachsen. Es ist natürlich eine tolle Geschichte und jeder sollte diese auch gelesen und nicht nur geguckt haben!
Mi ricordavo vagamente la trama e che uno dei bambini si chiamava Pelle.
E' la storia di una famiglia, padre e quattro figli, che vanno in vacanza in una vecchia casa su un'isoletta svedese, delle loro avventure con gli isolani e con i loro compagni di gioco a quattro zampe, dell'affetto fraterno e del primo amore, del loro ritorno nelle vacanze successive e della lotta per non far demolire la loro casa in affitto a cui sono affezionati.
Decisamente è un libro per ragazzi, ma l'ho comunque molto apprezzato, per le cose semplici, per i giochi e le marachelle fra bambini, per gli animali, per i paesaggi, il sapore di mare e di vacanze.
E' una lettura molto rilassante e rimane tutt'ora uno dei miei libri preferiti.
(Until some dude worthy of her and approved by all the other males in her family comes along to sweep her off her feet into married bliss, of course).
It's kinda sad considering how Lindgren's more fantasy-based heroines (Ronja & Pippi) would burst out laughing at the idea of being expected to fit into those stereotypes, but the moment she wrote a story set in the real world, the bossy-but-cheerful mother/caretaker role seemed to be the only one available to women.Right.
I think I'm just gonna focus on the celebration of uninhibited childhood funtimes and animal rights, instead :p
Perypetie rodziny Melkersonów na niewielkiej wyspie, gdzie wynajęli stare domostwo jako dom letniskowy. Ciepła rodzinna opowieść, przypominająca klimatem "Dzieci z Bullerbyn". Proste, mocno nakreślone charaktery poszczególnych bohaterów, czynią z niej przyjemną, nie zaskakującą lekturę. Jednak, w momentach rozkosznego relaksu, nie zawsze potrzebujemy zaskoczeń i gwałtownych zwrotów akcji, czy konstrukcji szkatułkowej. W twórczości Astrid Lindgren, skierowanej do dzieci i młodszej młodzieży, najbardziej podoba mi się to, czego współczesne dzieci chyba nie znają - prawdziwe zabawy, w realnym świecie oraz obcowanie z przyrodą i jak najbardziej nie wirtualnymi towarzyszami (ludźmi i zwierzętami). Ech, ten świat odchodzi w zapomnienie.
Un libro che cammina con un ritmo spiccato e salubre.
Ma non corre mai.
Ogni pagina è come una splendida giornata che si spera non avrà mai fine, perciò ti viene la voglia di voltare le pagine con cautela.
Un libro che respira, perché è vivo.
Astrid Lindgren crea una specie di incantesimo con "Vacanze all'isola dei gabbiani".
Mi sembra di aver vissuto in quell'isola, anche se non sono mai stato in Scandinavia; mi sembra di far parte della famiglia Melkerson, anche se la mia famiglia non è per niente come loro.
Vorrei, anzi dovrei assolutamente, tornare all'isola dei gabbiani.
Curious-minded Tjorven might just make the best kids book ever written! An excellent guidebook for dealing with common everyday nuisances such as awkward adults, boyfriends and nosy neighbors... and all that while enjoying a glorious summer full of explorations and swimming in clothes. You will also learn about big dogs and how to tie a boat up the shore so you dont have to swim back home. When I grow up Ill be Tjorven.
Curious-minded Tjorven might just make the best kids book ever written! An excellent guidebook for dealing with common everyday nuisances such as awkward adults, boyfriends and nosy neighbors... and all that while enjoying a glorious summer full of explorations and swimming in clothes. You will also learn about big dogs and how to tie a boat up the shore so you don´t have to swim back home. When I grow up I´ll be Tjorven.
This book is my favorite Astrid Lindgren story EVER! I reread it often, at least once a year. When I come across it on people's shelves, I have to pick it up and skim a few pages. Ilon Wickland's illustrations are the best!
Príjemná lindgrenovka, ako obvykle - plná milých, nie čiernobielych postáv, ale ľudí z mäsa a kostí, zábavných, dramatických aj radostných udalostí. Určite nie jej najlepšia kniha, ale milovníkov Lindgrenovej sveta nesklame. Veľmi príjemné oddychové čítanie.
Had I read it in childhood - perhaps during a vacation at the seaside - I would surely love it now as much as Lindgren's other books that I read as a child.
The passages from Malin's diary do read a little dated and breathe the atmosphere of the 1950s books for girls I found in my mother's childhood bookshelf, but the rest of the story is as fresh and atmospheric as Lindgren's other stories.
Sad, because I am no longer the child who can appreciate this world.
Hei, som vi vil savne dere Tjorven og Melker og Pelle og Båtsmann og alle, alle dere andre i dette vidunderlig Lindgrenske univers.
Dere har bydd på uker med latter og tårer og undring.
Vi reiser inn i tidløse solskinnsdager, så troverdige at man raskt trår ut av hverdagens mas og jag.
Inn i bølgeskvulp og saltvannssprøyt og gråknauset, nordisk sommernatur.
"Tar jeg morgenrødens vinger, vil jeg bo ved havets ytterste grense," ønsker Pelle.
Kanskje finnes det en Pelle i oss alle?
Uten aldersgrenser, og med store doser varme og visdom.
A really nice book. This should be my favourite book when I was young, if I read it then. It is a book with all perfect elements, a beautiful island, a nice house, lovely children, a weird dad, a big nice dog, a seal as a pet.
This is such a nostalgic and wonderful story. I love the character Tjorven and the setting of the story reminds me of summer and how I used to spend my summers when I was little.
A delight to read with my daughter. She loved all the antics of "Uncle Melker" as well as related to the younger children. A beautiful story about the things that make life worth living.
Loved it!A special delight of this story was in this interweaving of different generations, little joys and worries of adults, adolescents, teenagers, and young children.
I enjoyed them a lot!I paid special attention to Астрид Линдгрен’s sneering (and probably even slight disgust) towards “fairy tales” with princesses, magic and similar stuff, which was emphasized in this book.
Not magic for the sake of entertainment, which Астрид Линдгрен apparently considered just stupid and positively spoiling children, robbing them of imagination and healthy interest to real life, nature, aminals, relationships, so beautiful and so diverse.
I have long been a fan of Astrid Lindgren (what childhood is complete without Pippi Longstocking?!) and I have enjoyed exploring her other books over the years, as have my own children.
I have a lot of admiration for Astrid Lindgren and I hope readers will explore her other books, outside of the most famous Pippi Longstocking stories, as there is so much to enjoy.
The Melkerson family, with four kids, rent out Carpenter's Cottage and find they are a great novelty and warmly welcomed by the locals:"Johan and Niklas Melkerson, at twelve and thirteen, are natural companions for adventurous Freddy and Teddy (girls exactly their age); dreamy Pelle, the baby of the family, gets up to trouble with bossy Tjorven and fanciful Stina; and ever-responsible Malin, who at nineteen looks after her scatterbrained father as well as her brothers, catches the eye of all the island's young men." -nyrb.comAfter a summer's stay on Seacrow Island the Melkerson family feel like it is their new found home (albeit rundown and badly need of repair).
The setting of the story is alluring and the adventures portrayed are engrossing...

