https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6545608-the-perfect-storm
The money from the catch on a boat is 50% to the owner, then the expenses are taken off and a set formula applied to the rest where the captain takes the most and the newest deckhand the least.
They can kill a man, or almost as bad, a wound from the sword will almost always become infected and the boat might be very far in distance and time from home.
There are always by-catch pulled up with the swordfish.
But the tuna aren't a problem, they are gutted and thrown on to the ice along with the swordfish - generally a perk of the fishermen, the boat owner doesn't get a share of by-catch.
This book not only introduces you to the doomed men who set sail on the Andrea Gail, it also tells the story of other boaters, their near misses, a helicopter going down, rescues, the dangers of hurricanes, the ships that sunk and the dangers of fishing."Fishing continues to be one of the easiest ways in which to die while earning a paycheck."This book also educates the reader on swordfish fishing, weather reports, wave heights, the equipment on the Andrea Gail, rogue waves, missing ships, and what happens in your body when you drown.
Luckily, it is nowhere near as long as Moby Dick so it serves as a nice introduction to the atmosphere of the story.Then the storm hits:During the storm part of the book there are several tales of heroic rescues and tragic losses.
While the focus at first is on the Andrea Gail, there are many other interesting stories from the North Atlantic.If you like non-fiction, harrowing tales of nature’s wrath, and stories about people pushed to the very limits of endurance, then I highly recommend this book.
The ocean was completely in control..."-- William Langewiesche, A Sea Story On October 28, 1991, the fishing vessel Andrea Gail and her crew of six men disappeared off the Grand Banks in a tremendous storm created by...etc., etc.
With so little upon which to hang the central narrative, Junger has no choice but to pad the book with digressions and to shift the story away from the Andrea Gail and to other, luckier boats caught in the storm.
The electrical activity in their brain gets weaker and weaker until, after fifteen or twenty minutes, it ceases altogetherTheories about what happened to the Andrea Gail, no matter how well-reasoned and detailed, could not have supported The Perfect Storm in book-length.
Junger never lets his reader forget that this is a true-life description; achieving this with passages from meteorologists, other fishermen and the loved ones left to mourn those lost at sea.
Whilst being dense in the science of storms and the process of life on board a fishing schooner, it is also thick with tragedy and truly does justice to the lost men who can now never be forgotten.
Sebastian Junger's superlative telling of the real-life event, which resulted in this 1997 book and the 2000 movie starring George Clooney, reveals the storm in its horrific destruction -- also the mixed results of rescue efforts that come when governmental resources are stretched a little too far.
The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea goes into matters that the Clooney film simply couldn't spend much time on, such as the way a private pleasure boat apparently distracted rescue efforts from the fishing boat Andrea Gail, also the extent to which the profit motive endangered the Andrea Gail to a larger extent than was strictly necessary.
Junger writes: "If the men on the 'Andrea Gail' had simply died, and their bodies were lying in state somewhere, their loved ones could make their goodbyes and get on with their lives.
I like Junger's writing style a lot.
He's very poignant and manages to write in a both matter-of-factly and emotionally sensitive way at the same time.
This is the story he could piece together about one particular boat lost at sea, as well as what might have happened to its crew, during one of the worst storms ever recorded.
He does this by combining very technical know-how about fishing and boats with an understanding of the psychology behind men's choices to go out at sea and how they deal with survival and death.
This book could easily sweep the floor with fictional thriller novels; to think that the events in it were true is really frightening! But it's not really supposed to be scary. It's the story of brave men fighting to survive against a storm that engulfs them, and it's written vividly, with lots of emotion and featuring people who are very memorable after reading about them. It's really worth reading, I highly recommend it.
The answer is no.)But none of that matters because I made it to the 60% mark, at which I could not put the book down.What was happening was not a terror beyond words.
It was a grim sense of reality, a scrambling to figure out what to do next, a determination to stay alive and keep other people alive, and an awareness of the dark noisy slamming of the boat.
Without revealing too much, I'll just say that some of the passages in the last part of the book will stay with me forever.
I am glad that I did.What a read.I could not stop.His descriptions of these men & their lives lived on these huge boats was a different world to me.I could not imagine this.He went deep into describing how much goes into these shipping~ fishing~ sailing vessels.I have always felt that there is no force greater than a storming sea.
It is a different world ~ a transitory existence that seems to work for these seaside villages.Men who want no possessions and nothing to hold them down.
Such a fascinating and gut wrenching account of a storm that affected so many lives. An odd half documentary/half story-telling feel to it and as it doesn’t try to fictionalize anything allows the reader to come to her own conclusion about the final moments of the Andrea Gail. It starts out strong, gets a bit too technical in the middle, but finishes as a page turner with true accounts from others who survived the storm. All in all, a really great book.
I thought this would be a pretty interesting book - I had vaguely heard the story when the movie came out, although I haven't seen the movie.The Perfect Storm is a great name for the book, as the book revolved around the storm that took out the Andrea Gail.
It gave a lot of good information about fishing, but overall I wasn't impressed by the book, especially when it concerns the Andrea Gail.
One of my all time favorite reads. I love the ocean and stories about it. This one holds a bit of imagination into what may have happened out there at sea in a crazy storm. I really like this book and have read it multiple times.
"More people are killed on fishing boats, per capita, than in any other job in the United States."What a tragic, but true story. The author did a good job capturing the feel of the fishing culture. It was technical, but interesting how the science of the weather and the science of the fishing industry came together to make this perfect (the book even defined perfect as something NOT good) storm. I was enthralled the entire time, even though I knew how the story ended. A great book for me.
Since the Mayflower, my relatives were fisherman around Gloucester, making this book a fascinating read for me.
Not long after I read the book, I was staying in a bed and breakfast in the small town of Scituate down the Massachusettes coast, and the movie was playing in a tiny theater across the street, so I went.
If you liked the book and visit Gloucester, it's much like it's been for decades; still a small fishing town, albeit a poorer one since most of the cod have been fished out.
Gloucester was where the first schooners were made; I've got a picture of my great grandfather's two masted schooner.
The quite drawn-out description of what it's like to drown was terrifying, as well as the description of what the ocean is like in a storm like that.
I also thought that the very real importance of dreams and premonitions was described in the book--crewmen would get a "bad feeling" about going out with a boat and family members would dream about loved ones who were in peril or lost.
Overall, there's something weird about reading something so gripping about something so tragic that's a real story--it feels exploitative to be that interested in how it all happened.
I had heard that this book was good but I thought it was sort of boring.
I don't know anything about boating and I think you have to have some boating knowledge before reading this book.
There are pages and pages of descriptions about what a swordfishing boat looks like, using words I had never even heard of!
What I did like about the book though was that it was journalistic non-fiction, as much as could be considering the author was guessing (based on others' accounts) what was happening as the boat was going down.
But Junger was faced with a fundamental problem with this book that I'm not sure he was able to overcome satisfactorily: and that's that he spends a good deal of time getting us intimate with a large cast of characters--the fishermen and loved ones affiliated with the ill-fated boat, Andrea Gail--and because nothing is really known about went on aboard a vessel that went down with barely a trace, without a word and no eyewitnesses to what happened, there's a big hole of speculation in the middle that Junger does, admittedly, a yeoman's job of trying to fill by extrapolation from the documented experiences of the surviving crewman of other boats that have gone down in sea storms.
This is a review of the audio book which I downloaded for free from the Sync Audio summer reading program last summer.
This is the book that inspired that movie.
While the book doesn't really have any sexy movie stars, it does pay homage to the fishermen and rescue workers alike.
The Perfect Storm is the story of the Andrea Gale, a fishing boat that set out in October 1991 and never returned.
There's a lot of information on the fishery, about the boats, and the fishermen.
Fishing is a difficult job - a lot of time away from home, isolated, and subject to nature's whims.
After turning the last page of this book I had to take a deep breath and stretch my tense muscles. Moments ago I was in the cold ocean with a handful of men. I was with a little boy missing his father. I was dreaming about a lover lost at sea. This book takes the reader with it. It's a book you experience rather than read.
Junger spent two paragraphs explaining that weather condition updates were channeled across three points (ships, Suffolk AFB and McGuire AFB), but only if specifically asked for.
McGuire only communicated with Suffolk if Suffolk asked for updates.
Likewise, Suffolk only gave craft updates if they asked and Suffolk only asked McGuire if a pilot asked them for updates.
The pilot called and Suffolk failed to ask McGuire for an update, or the pilot failed to ask Suffolk?Finally, by the end of the book Junger turned the whole thing into a ghost story, complete with clairvoyance and spectral visitations by the dead crews.
I was motivated to read this book after I fell in love with authors like Krakauer and Pierce who wrote books on real, chaotic events that have inspired many.
After being fascinated by the way these authors wrote about tragic events that always left me in suspense I thought The Perfect Storm would be the perfect read.
I felt that Junger includes a lot of "fluff" in this story that made the book less fascinating and less suspenseful.
After reading Junger I realized I don't just like any book about a natural event, the story needs to be well written, and Junger's style was not the best for me.
Where the movie cuts most of this and focuses on the ill-fated vessel at the center of the storm, the book does what books do so well---it explores the issues and colors in the background, never forgetting to keep building the tension of the main plot.While the books are so different as to make the comparison ridiculous, The Perfect Storm uses a structure not unlike that of the Grapes of Wrath: a powerful, heroic, but ultimately tragic tale, woven against the rich backdrop of the non-fiction world of the time.
For Steinbeck's characters it was the Dust Bowl and the national migration that followed.
Not a huge fan of how he organized this book because describing these different things like the fishing industry, hurricanes, drowning, etc.
really took away from the main characters.
It made no sense and I didn't like that about it.
I also don't think he should've included the story about the Andrea Gail bc to me it really took away from his ethos instead of strengthening it.
Overall the book wasn't awful; it was pretty easy to get through besides the poor organization and that's why I'm only giving it three stars.
If you are someone who loves to read fact after fact, tons of boat history, and a book that has at least five different perspectives that the story is told in, in the first 20 pages, then this is the book for you.
Afterward, everyone in the group, not including Christian, go to the sword fishing boat that they are to work on.
While Bobby is away, which is a whole months time, Christian is worried sick.
After that the story is really hard to keep up with because out of the 225 pages 200 of them are boat history.
I think anyone who has ever made a Coast Guard joke should read this book. Just saying.Part nature book, part adventure, part tragedy, part fish - the book is a pretty good much. It is somewhat slow to start, but when it does take off, it takes off.
A lot of meteorological facts through the history of fishing, about many boats through the history and today at the time (1991) when Andrea Gail with the 6 fishermen disappeared.
Not only that but also a lot of interesting facts about the lives of fishermen in the area of Glocester, what sort of fish they catch, the requirements of the markets, a lot of history, the importance of the pubs in fishermen's lives...More than anything I liked the story about the boat "Satori" and the 2 women on the board.
The story with the rescue helicopter is unforgettable.

Good writer.Since a well known movie was made from this book in 2000, many readers will know roughly what happens before they start the book.
Weaknesses of our boat, the Andrea Gail.
Now, nearly halfway into the book the Andrea Gail is unknowingly on a collision course with The Perfect Storm.
He suggests what probably happened to our boat and its six man crew.
You cannot ride out a storm where the waves are taller than the boat is long.
I give The Perfect Storm four stars for the many interesting and factual details it provides about the danger and consequences of life on the sea.
