https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52670.One_Two_Three_Infinity
There was a young fellow from TrinityWho took √∞ (square root of infinity)But the number of digits Gave him the fidgets;He dropped Math and took up Divinity.
There's magic in these pages.
Gamow, one of the greatest physicists of 20th century, whose passion for the maths and science is communicated in this book, whether explaining the wonders of infinite series, or how to locate a hidden pirate's treasure chest using imaginary numbers.
The book explains how mathematics and science really work, in a language that a layman can understand.
And he doesn't shy away from hardcore mathematics, if needed.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
أن تقرأ كتابا علمياصدر منذ أكثر من نصف قرن و ترجم منذ أكثر من ربع قرن فهذا يعنى أنك ستقرأ معلومات منتهية الصلاحية كهذهو لا لوم الا عليك فأنت من اخترت هذاأما أن يكون كتابا فى تبسيط العلوم ثم يفاجئك بمعادلات كهذهو رسومات توضيحية كهذهفلا يسعك الا أن تشعر بإحباط كبيركنت انتوى أن أقرأ كتابا أخر عن تطور الكون و لكنى تخليت عن ذلك تماما الا بعد فاصل أدبى لعلى أتعلم الأدب و لا أفعل ما فعلت مرة أخرىالكتاب القادم هو تحت المظلة لنجيب محفوظ
Having just read this fine book, closely preceded by the equally excellent  Frontiers of Astronomy , I'm beginning to feel that the 40s and 50s were not just the Golden Age of science-fiction; they may also have been the Golden Age of popular science writing, a genre which certainly is not unconnected to SF. I have read a fair number of pop science books over the last year, and most of the modern ones are miserably unsatisfying. They are stylistically weak, the authors alternate between patronis
Having just read this fine book, closely preceded by the equally excellent 
I have read a fair number of pop science books over the last year, and most of the modern ones are miserably unsatisfying.
They are stylistically weak, the authors alternate between patronising you and boring you with anecdotes from their dull lives, and above all the science isn't well done: they can't find good ways to explain abstract concepts in familiar terms, and they fail to distinguish between fact and speculation.
A Universe from Nothing
Check it out and see what pop science ought to be like!
Gamow presents complex subjects with simple analogies and clever cartoons.
His science, rivets like a jackhammer, pounding out universal revelations with each new page.One, Two, Three...Infinity walks us through the worlds of nuclear physics, cosmology, biology, relativity, quantum theory, and astrophysics without skipping a beat.
Too often, the presentation of real science turns into an imagination's death march into a bleak world of facts and foreign vocabulary.
But Gamow keeps it light and by transcending the minutia, makes a reader that floats above it and keeps its value even now, half a decade after its first publication.
وفي حوالي ٤٥٠ صفحة من القطع الكبير ستنغمس في رياضيات وفيزياء وكونيات وكيمياء وبيولوجي بأسلوب لن ترى له مكافيء.يبدأ جاموف كتابه، فيقول: «الذرات والنجوم والسدم وتعادل الطاقة والعوامل الوراثية، وهل يستطيع المرء أن يثني الفضاء؟ وسبب انكماش القذائف الصاروخية: كل هذه الموضوعات وغيرها مما لا يقل عنها طرافة سنتناولها في هذا الكتاب».ولا أدري هل سهى الكاتب عن ذكر أول جزء عن رياضيات الأعداد الكبيرة واللانهاية ومعناها، وهو واحد من أمتع الأجزاء في الكتاب.وفي ذلك الجزء يتجول الكاتب في بعض المصطلحات الرياضية الطريفة المثيرة للتفكير، فيبدأ مثلا بالقدماء وكيف كانوا يحاولون عد الأعداد الكبيرة.
ধরুন, আপনার কোন বনধু এসে বলল, তোমাদের বিজঞানের তো অনেক জয়জয়কার। আমি অত গভীরে যেতে চাই না। আমাকে শুধু এমন কোন বই সাজেসট করো যা পড়লে আমি সায়েনসের কিছুটা মজা নিতে পারি। কিংবা আপনার ছোট কোন ভাই বোনকে বিজঞানে আগরহী করতে কোন বই দিতে চান।এমন কষেতরে আপনাকে আমি যে বইটা তার হাতে তুলে দিতে বলব তা হচছে এই বইটি। গণিত,রসায়ন, জীববিদযা ও পদারথবিদযার চুমবক অংশ অতযনত সুনদরভাবে এই বইটিতে তুলে ধরা হয়েছে। পরাচীন ভারতের কথিত রাজা দাহির দাবা খেলা নিয়ে কি গনডগোল করল কিংবা বেনারস এ Temple of Brahma-র সবগুলো তামার পাত সথ
কেন অমন হলনা?

I am almost certain I read this when I was a kid, because I'm pretty sure I remember the bit about Hilbert's hotel.
A spectacular book on Science written in the 1960s but much ahead of its time, delving into the basics of numbers to fundamental physics , genetics and cosmology( in which the author is a pioneer). Very lucidly explained and quite captivating & it is a treat for an inquisitive reader.
In discussing relativity theory, George Gamow uses some limericks:"There was a young fellow named FiskWhose fencing was exceedingly brisk.
So fast was his action, The Fitzgerald contractionReduced his rapier to a disk."Or, my personal favorite:"There was a young girl named Miss Bright,Who could travel much faster than light.
She departed one day, In an Einsteinian way,She came back on the previous night."Anyhow, the book discusses atoms in a readable manner, the various elements, numbers, Einstein's work, ther world of the small (bacteria, light) and the world of the large (the universe and galaxies).Readable, accessible, with humor injected.
Slightly dated book but very well written. I do not have a deep background in physics and so take my review with a little caution.Covers a variety of topics from simple to complex. Anyone with some background in physics should be able to appreciate the simpler topics. The more complex topics related to relativity and time-space paradigms will need a more erudite reader to understand and appreciate. Having said that some illustrations in the book (the angular shifting of the coordinate system) is the closest I have come to understanding the space-time conundrum.A good read for students of physics.
However, the book does require a fair bit of an inquisitive attitude towards physical phenomena but the great fact about Gamow is that while he doesn’t literally spoon feed you; he makes the concept so simple that with a little bit of effort, you won’t have any trouble in reaching the answers, and oh boy, are you going to have some fun while you’re at it!I am forever indebted to Gamow for explaining to me different types of infinities and how to compare them in a way that I shall find difficult to forget even if someone were to hit me on the head with a hammer (in all seriousness that experiment is out of bounds and quite frankly illegal.) The book led me to one of my favourite limericks, one that is on the Fitz Gerald Contraction.
واحد..اثنان..ثلاثة..لا نهايةجورج جاموف................................هذا كتاب في العلوم، ليس في مجال علمي واحد، بل هو مقالات متفرقة في مجالات مختلفة منها الكيمياء، والرياضيات.
في فصول أخري خصصها المؤلف لعلم الكيمياء الحديثة، وفي الحقيقة فإن أغلب فصول الكتاب تعتبر صعبة و ليس من السهل هضمها، لكن لا ينبغي أبدا ترك المحاولة لفهم العلوم الحديثة، ومن الضروري أن نسعى لفهم أي قدر مهما كان ضئيلا، فهو خير من لا شيء، وهذا ما فعلته مع هذا الكتاب

Written in 1947 and last updated in 1961, Gamow's overview of the postwar state of the art in mathematics, physics, biology, and astronomy is lucid, if occasionally challenging, with 128 charming illustrations by the author scattered through the text.
I picked this up for its discussions of number theory and topology for the nonspecialist, though if I had checked the table of contents, I would have seen that the discussion of math per se takes up only about a tenth of the book's length.
Still, this is the sort of book that I wish had been on my parents' bookshelf when I was a bored kid reading every book I could get my hands on.
1,2,3...∞أعظم كتاب في تبسيط العلوم قرأته حتى الآنجورج جاموف يمتلك أسلوباً ساحراً في توضيح أعقد الأفكار العلمية والفيزيائية خاصة .. كما يمتلك من العلم ما يؤهله أن يوضع على مصاف كبار العلماء.. ونسبت له نظرية الإنفجار الكبير حيث كان هو آخر من وضع النظرية الكاملة وبلورها في صورتها الحالية سنة 1948الكتاب جولة شيقة مابين الرياضيات البحتة والهندسة مروراً بالفيزياء والكيمياء والبيولوجيا ثم ختاماً بالفلك ونظريات نشوء الكون ونظريات الفوضى والاحتمالاتكما لا أخفي على القارئ أن الكاتب لديه موهبة جذابة في الحكي .. فربما كان يعمل روائياً في الخفاء بعد يوم علمي شاق!
Expounding facts and theories of modern science that as a reader it gives you a vivid image of the universe as it shows the scientist of today. It introduces you some interesting history of big numbers and how it started. Likewise, the differences between natural and artificial numbers. The book was fantastically witty!
Extremely well written book. The author explains his thoughts very concisely and in a very easily understandable manner. If we had books like this for textbooks, every young student would dream of becoming a scientist.
This book blew my mind when I was in my early teens and I have been interested in math, both avocationally and vocationally, every since. One of the best math books ever written for non-mathematicians.
Perhaps it's standard mid-20th century American prose (it does feel somewhat familiar) but to me it reads like an awkward compromise between stuffy 19th-century English and patronisingly folksy children's edu-tainment.
(That makes it sound worse than it is; it's really not terrible.) I was also frustrated by the use of imperial units, and more importantly the absence of scientific notation for very large or small numbers.
(Writing out numbers like "one hundred millionths of an inch" is a bad idea, especially when it turns out to be a typo for "one hundred-millionth of an inch".)Obviously some of these gripes are subjective, but not all.
Written for the layman, Gamow should be required reading considering the simplicity of high school science and mathematics, and the goal stated on almost every syllabus concerning critical thinking skills.
A very enjoyable read that I almost hate to pass along to the next great thinker hiding behind a minimum wage job, even if the information is a little dated.
Every high school graduate should have the understanding needed to follow each synopsis and the logical reasoning necessary to follow each explanation, however strange, assuming each student is responsible enough to handle the information presented appropriately.
Personally, it was a long read.
I had to reread some parts of the book to actually understand the content.
It took me some time to understand certain parts of the book, (e.g. relativity)where the idea is abstract.In my opinion, the reader must have a better than average science knowledge, and good logic.
There are some topics that wouldn't make sense if the reader never came across the basic ideas that build it.
In conclusion, if you are not familiar with some basic science term, maybe you ought to go back and read it again before reading this book.
It was a great read nonetheless.
Among many concepts illustrated by way of math, there is a thing that relates Pi and Probability , that is , one should be able to calculate the value of Pi by dropping match sticks (of shorter length) over a paper marked with equidistant parallel lines and finding the probability of the match sticks that crosses the line - this is Buffon's needle problem and a well written proof of it - pretty impressive.
Likewise there are several nifty maths problems in relation to the physical concepts (which makes reading this book quite entertaining.)
This book was interesting for several reasons.
Secondly it was interesting because of the level of scientific knowledge at the time when Gamow was writing this book.
Yes, there are bits that are very inaccurate because of it, but it reminds you that scientific theories are born and they die, some sooner than others.
Some of the theories that were presented as most likely scenarios, by now are considered or proven wrong, which makes it a great book to read if you know where scientists are with their theories now.
We are in 1947, Gamow is explaining us tricky concepts from math, physics, chemistry and biology. Fantastic. Get ready to have some fun because the whole thing is palatable to any curious person. For example, he starts asking "How to count infinities?" matching the book title. This is just the warm-up wrestling with number theory the purest branch of mathematics. Of course he closes the book discussing the "laws of disorder" like brownian motion and the second law of thermodynamics making this book a huge and mysterious mess, just like the universe.
Excellent read for anyone interested in physics, maths and philosophy.A comprehensible description of topics that are so counter-intuitive that they become almost impossible to talk about, mainly as a consequence of the inability of language as it currently is, to properly classify them.Luckily the book has lots of drawings and schema's to accompany those interesting concepts.It well shed a light on things you thought you understood, but turn out you don't.Would highly recommend!
This is a very good book, and is definitely worth reading, especially the chapter on dimensions, and the space-time is very well explained with easy to understand examples of real life. The book being written in 1988 has not been updated for some rather radical discoveries. For example, the Fermat’s Last Theorem was yet to be proved with Andrew Wiles, or at the time the life of sun was estimated 50 billion years!
I wish I had written my review sooner after reading the book! I remember it was consistently entertaining and informative. Some of the science is a little out of date, of course, but the presentation and ideas (both mathematical and scientific) is excellent. The drawings are funny and the writing is engaging.
Fun science primer, a little dated in some respects, but some of the most enjoyable parts (like the discussion of mathematical infinities, plural) are timeless. Gamow has many other books in this vein. all enjoyable. Could be considered a predecessor of Carl Sagan's "Cosmos".
There are significant problems with Gamow’s explanations though he does provoke thought. His use of imaginary numbers in the treasure hunt appears to be incorrect. Hope somebody can comment.
