https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295801.The_House_with_a_Clock_in_Its_Walls
This was such a surprisingly fun read! It's honestly one of those adventurous stories that warms your heart. It's full of magic and mystery and it's an all around good time. I'm really curious to see how this translates on the big screen.
i laugh at the story now but i also can't help but remember the sharp flash of humiliation, the quick decision that it was less embarrassing to be a girl mistaken for a boy than to admit that i could have been a boy who looked like a girl, and then of course the ample self-loathing that followed.
reading about him, reading the story of a boy filled with anxiety and doubt and even self-loathing, was almost like a tonic: now here was an author who lived in the real world!
The adventure is scary, and the danger is real, as is the magic.
A huge plus is the boy's relationship with Uncle Jonathan who takes him in, and his uncle's friendship with Mrs. Zimmermann.
Long before we were touting 'strong female characters with agency,' Mrs. Zimmermann existed!
It's a pleasure to see adults portrayed as adults with lives of their own in a children's book.
And Lewis is a refreshingly real protagonist as he discovers his delight in his unusual new home, and copes with the difficulties any kid finds in being different and the 'new kid' at school.A great Halloween tale, but good any time.
It was interesting, as I read this it was like little puffs of smoke which were memories went off in my head and I would think, 'oh yeah', I remember that now.
It was almost like reading this for the first time with some deja vu thrown in.Lewis Barnavelt is an orphan and he goes to live with his uncle in Michigan.
I dream of a house like that some day.Lewis finds out his relatives is a witch and he has some magic interest in himself.
I am thinking I might need to go back and read many of my books from childhood as I have forgotten them so completely.
This book scared the tar out of me when I was ten. I could barely fall asleep at night but I loved it. I used it as a read aloud to my fourth graders and they would BEG each day to hear more. Occasionally I would look up from my reading to see 20 horrified faces with their eyes wide open in anticipation of what would come next. Plus cool drawings by Edward Gorey.
I would have been even more delighted with every nuance of mystery, suspense, and humour when its protagonist Lewis Barnavelt, matched my age.
This book dwells on no sadness but our introduction to Lewis is poignant: he is orphaned and headed to live with his Uncle Jonathan in another town.
From the get-go this book stands apart because Uncle Jonathan and next door neighbour Florence Zimmermann are best friends; adults with a child’s abandon, who are fun.
We wonder what he and Florence worry about within it, strange behaviour delights us, and evidence of magic!
Everything but Lewis’s age, makes this the book for me.
This was okay. I read it since the movie is coming out soon, but I should have saved the story for the movie, which I'm hoping has a tighter plot and that the clock plays more of a role than a side tale for 95% and then a last minute "big deal" in the last 5%.
A pesar de que los lectores solemos quejarnos de los inicios de saga lentos y explicativos, me pareció que este libro perdía fuerza en el apuro: el sistema de magia no queda claro y bien establecido, los magos muestran lo que hacen y no hay consecuencias (view spoiler)[ más allá de la pelea entre Lewis y su “amigo” Tarbys (hide spoiler)] y a veces se olvida el motor de la historia.
Por ejemplo, es el caso de la descripción de las Ilusiones Históricas, que además pone una barrera ante los lectores desinformados sobre esos asuntos.

The reason for stating this is because I had friends who had parents and teachers that, unfortunately, taught them that there are "silly" books not worth reading, as opposed to "serious" literature, the kind that has stood the test of time and taken on the label of "classic".
But I digress...Bellairs was the forerunner for dark fantasy authors like Rowling, Neil Gaiman, and John Connolly, and his stories were a perfect blend of supernatural creepiness and tween angst black humor."THWACIIW" introduces readers to Lewis Barnavelt, a ten-year-old who, at the beginning of the story, has lost his parents in a car accident and is forced to live with his Uncle Jonathon in New Zebedee, Michigan.
4,5Este libro hizo muy pero muy feliz a mi niña interior. Me dio una especie de nostalgia rara, como mágica. La atmósfera gótica, los personajes tan entrañables y la constante intervención sobrenatural hizo que me sintiera muy de humor para Halloween (si, más aún).
⭐⭐⭐⭐💫 / 5Apparently I am really loving the spooky Juvenile fiction lately. The House with a Clock in Its Walls by John Bellairs wasn't overly spooky, but there was definitely a scene or 2 that got a little intense. How did I not know these existed?!What it's about: Lewis Barnavelt is suddenly orphaned after his parents die in a car accident, and he goes to live with his uncle Jonathan. Lewis quickly finds out that both his uncle and his uncle's next door neighbor Mrs. Zimmermann are witches, and
Lewis quickly finds out that both his uncle and his uncle's next door neighbor Mrs. Zimmermann are witches, and Jonathan's house is plagued by a clock ticking in the walls.
I guess we shall see.There was one scene that confused me a little bit and I couldn't really picture what I was supposed to be seeing, but besides that I love how Bellairs made The House with a Clock in Its Walls very atmospheric and fun even though it's geared towards a younger audience.
I loved Uncle Jonathan and Mrs. Zimmermann, and the spooky parts of the book are perfect for Halloween.
The imagery, the illustrations, everything about the book scared me to (almost) death.
However, when Lewis feels Tarby pulling away he does what he can to get him to still be his friend.
Uncle Jonathon seemed clueless about things that Lewis was doing and how he was doing at school.
The writing was good, though I can see as a kid why the book scared the crap out of me.
And then to have the book kind of just go to Lewis being fine about things because hey he met another friend was a bit funny to me.
A great creepy story with plenty of magic and mystery that will appeal to people of all ages.The idea of a mysterious ticking noice from a hidden clock is such a fascinating concept! This children’s favourite first came to my attention due to the forthcoming film adaptation, theres so many great elements to this book that judging by the tailer will introduce this great story to a wider audience.I’m looking forward to seeing it!
;)Lewis lost his parents and so comes to live with his uncle Jonathan.
Lewis feels right at home since both are very loving people but when he tries to make a friend, he dabbles in magic himself with dangerous consequences so he and his new family have to race against the clock (see what I did there?
:D It's all about how stories make you feel after all (both in book and movie format).Apparently this is one of those books that many people know (a series in fact).
3,75/5Ha estado bastante bien: tiene misterio, es entretenido y la ambientación es genial. Pero lo hubiera disfrutado mucho más si lo hubiera leído de niña.Reseña completa: -Wordpress: https://suenosentreletras.wordpress.c...-Blogger: https://addicionaloslibros.blogspot.c...
I love it so much, and it has been so influential in my life, that I even have a tattoo of the Ace of Nitwits.It is the story of 11 year old Lewis Barnavelt and is set in the fictional town of Marshall, Michigan in the 1950's.
He has been sent to live with his Uncle Jonathon, who lives in an old ramshackle mansion next door to his best friend Mrs. Zimmerman, who has an obsession with the color purple and anything with "Z" on it.
Both Uncle Jonathon and Mrs. Zimmerman are witches.
It is up to Lewis, Uncle Jonathon and Mrs. Zimmerman to find it before it winds down and rings in the end of the world.
This isn't my favorite of John Bellairs books, but it is definitely charming and spooky. A must if you enjoy children's horror! I'm looking forward to the movie coming later this October.
I don't know what to do."Orphaned Lewis Barnavelt always felt there's an unusual phenomenon going on in his Uncle Jonathan's Victorian-inspired mansion in New Zebedee, Michigan — the window pane coming alive, the inscribed "I.I." signature in almost all of the furniture, the deafening ticks of the assorted clocks, and the mysterious, eponymous clock in the mansion's walls.
Lewis soon realizes that his uncle is a warlock, and his uncle's next-door neighbour and friend, Mrs. Zimmermann, is a witch — in a good sense.
The House with a Clock in Its Walls is an eerie children's book filled with magical and haunting moments.
It's good enough for a Halloween read.
I read it with my son before the movie came out because we were planning on going to see the movie.
After reading it and having seen trailers for the movie, I was guessing that the movie was going to be very different from the book and better than it as well.
The story is about a boy named Lewis who's parent's have died and he now has to go and live with his Uncle Jonathan.
Jonathon and his best friend/neighbor are both wizards and he lives in a house that was previously owned by another evil wizard that left this doomsday clock hidden in the house.
Voiam atât de mult să îmi placă și să descopăr o (nouă) serie magică și captivantă, dar povestea este plictisitoare, previzibilă și slab schițată, lipsită de originalitate și cu personaje de carton.
It starts out with ten-year-old Lewis Barnavelt on his way to his uncle’s house after his parents’ deaths.
At one point, Lewis dips into one of his uncle’s forbidden magic books, then he and his friend sneak into the graveyard to try a spell to raise the dead.
Their success nearly leads to the end of the world.The whole setup has a bizarre, creepy feel.
Yes, Uncle Jonathan and Mrs. Zimmerman are good wizards, but they are so odd.
I didn’t like the characters.
The pictures were even stylized in a way that didn’t appeal to me.
I only vaguely remember reading this as a kid.
I remember the Fuse Box Dwarf, who jumps out and says, "Dreeb!
I think I read it when I was a bit older, not the target audience, and I remember hearing a lot about it as a kid.
I know there are lots of people who cite this as one of their all time favorite books.
The movie is better than the book because its more wacky, faster paced, and quite a bit scarier.
The book certainly holds up, and definitely should be read, but it is a slower burn and a quicker resolution than the movie.
I saw the trailer for the upcoming movie adaptation and thought it looked like a lot of fun, so naturally I wanted to try the book before I saw it. Unfortunately I wasn't as big of a fan as I thought I would be, but either way I'm still really excited for the movie.
4.25I really enjoyed my first John Bellairs book!I really enjoyed the character of Lewis.
Uncle Johnathan is a good uncle too and I enjoyed seeing their friendship between him and Mrs. Zimmerman.I also really liked how, yes there is evil people using magic but Johnathan and Mrs. Zimmerman use magic too and are good.
I've seen a lot of "all magic is evil" stuff and it gets on my nerves, so I like seeing how it can be used for good or bad.It was a nice easy read that flowed pretty well.
I enjoyed this book quite a bit.
I liked young Louis and his Uncle and his next door neighbor friend, who both happened to be powerful Sorcerers.
They had some fun discussions, and did some cool little magic tricks to keep little Louis from feeling so lonely since he's not terribly popular.
The house was a character in itself.
Definitely creepy, especially knowing what it was built for.
There were some moments scary enough to give a grownup a good start, but not too scary for a kid, particularly at the climax.
I look forward to reading the rest of the books in the series.
I reread this on audiobook this weekend but didn't mark it on goodreads till now but i loved it just as much i did before i can't wait to see the movie now
There are a few flaws but on the whole an enjoyable little book (I had one caveat, but I'll mention it later after a "Spoiler" warning).
This one was as I said before overall a good book and I think I'd have enjoyed it reading it with...or reading it to, someone.
But I got very tired of the boy "crying", or "getting ready to cry", or "feeling like he was going to cry"...or whatever.
Happily, there came a point near the end of the book where the boy himself realized that "he'd been crying an awful lot lately".
it's a pretty good and an enjoyable book.
love John Bellairs. creepy, fun, kind of sweet in spots. great read.
Where is that ticking coming from?!I read this with some friends and glad I did. I wish this series had been part of my childhood. The story was fun & imaginative and just enough scary for youngsters.
