https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93726.Princess_in_Training
MICHAEL MOSCOVITZ YOU CHEEKY, CHEEKY BOY! ;)
Oh Mia... As I mentioned in my last review.. it's during this stage that I have to give these books 4 stages instead of 5 because of how annoying Mia can get. She's only 15.. I get it. It's just a bit harder to read now that I'm older. Still really enjoyed it and it definitely made me laugh! Really wanting to speed through rereading the rest so I can read A Royal Wedding when it comes out!!
I live a Michael Moscovitz appreciation life.
I enjoyed this one. Thought Mia was a bit juvenile about the topic of sex (just her maturity level discussing it, not her choices). But I liked the student council election story. At this point I kind of want more Genovia/princess stuff and less high school but we shall see :)
This series should definitely be changed to the "Mia Whines-A-Lot" or maybe someone should invent a drinking game while reading this series.
For example, take a shot every time Mia whines.
You'd end up drunk and not remembering anything about this book.
In the end, your life is probably better not remembering.
I need to clean out my TBR guys!So, yes, I will continue to suffer while reading these books.
I just need to come up with a clever game or a cool reward for every book I finish - or something!
Mia whined.
In the end, I didn't care at all.
Mia needs a proper Sex ED.Well,this was a fun ride.Her relationship with Michael was so funny and awkward in this book & Lilly and Grandmère were actually pretty cool here.However,Mia was behaving REALLY naive & juvenile in this one.Also,I'm not really sure I'm on her side when it comes to Ms.Martinez.Everything else was really fun.(ᵔᴥᵔ)Favourite quote:"Do you know what you are looking at here, Amelia?" Grandmere is asking me."If you're trying to hypnotize me into not biting my nails any more,Grandmère," I said, "it won't work.Dr. Moscovitz already tried."

2.5 stars Now I must say that I lost some of my interest for this series.. And that is totally because of Mia being whining all the time for everything.But still I have hopes on the next...
Aaaaaahh! Adorei! A Mia está maravilhosa nesse livro! Esperando MUITO ela enfrentar a Lilly no próximo livro, pq peloamordedeus é a pior amiga do mundo. Ela passou de chata, pra irritante, pra má amiga e agora tentou USAR a Mia! Affff Quero ver como vai ser ela e Michael agora q ele tá na faculdade! E espero muito q ela ouça mais a Tina do q a Lilly.
Finalmente um livro em que a Mia não fica reclamando da vida ~injusta~ e discute algo mais vida real. Apesar da vida da Mia praticamente girar em torno do Michael (na cabeça dela), os momentos dos dois são poucos e meio anticlimáticos. Eu fico bem mais interessada em ela interagindo com a Lily e Grandmère (sdds Julie Andrews).Esse foi BEM melhor do que o #5 e deixou uma expectativa boa pro que vai acontecer no próximo :)
This was so good! This series is so funny and light and interesting. And I absolutely love Mia!!\o/ :D
This book tackles the subject of having sex with your boyfriend and when is that okay and basically the message is, whenever you're ready and he should respect that.
WHICH IS WHAT I WANT IN ALL BOOKS!!
Please make this a YA standard because not all girls are just ready for it right at 16 like I see in a lot of YA books.
Michael is such a great book boyfriend and character because he's real.
<3Also Meg Cabot throws the BIGGEST amount of shade in this book at Disney.
I love those movies but it just made this book that much better.
Every book in this series is always so enjoyable to read because of Mia’s sarcasm and her immaturity; she over-thinks EVERYTHING and has very little experience (like, in everything) but that’s kind of what makes her such an uproarious character/voice to read!
It’s so great to read narration like this, because Mia represents a larger population of teenage girls than she realizes; I found a lot of what she says relatable when I was growing up and I still feel that it’s applicable and valid now.
No, reading Princess in Training will not make a teenage girl an expert on comprehensive sex education—but it’s a GREAT start.
This would have been a lot more believable if they had been running for sophomore class president.*I was all ready to like this book a little more during Mia's speech.
And even he is sometimes confusing because I do not understand Michael/Mia. I need to be able to ship this but it is not working for me.The things I did like:*Principal Gupta is a fairly accurate portrayal of my experience with school authority, catering to Lana's complaints and ignoring how Lana is actually at the root of a lot of the problems.
Basically it was here campaign speech about why the students should elect her over Lana (popular cheerleader) for student council president.My second comment is about Michael.
In this one, sex between Mia and Michael is brought up.
If he's actually in love with her, he would be like "Whenever you're ready." or "I love you.
And he actually wanted to implement a check in every month!
So basically, every time one month has passed, Michael will check in with Mia about her readiness for sex.
Mia wanted a check-in every six month and they eventually settled on three months, because Michael apparently really can't wait for sex.
See my entire binge read of this book and books 6-7 1/2 here.Blah.Besides, Princess in Waiting this is probably the most lackluster installment in the series.
I hate to say it, when I was Mia’s age I probably acted a lot like her-though slightly less neurotic.
Like a certain scene at a slumber party when the characters discuss whether a new kid at school is a boy or girl.That just seemed a little rude.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; Romance.
Score SheetAll out of tenCover:  7Plot:  6Characters: 4World Building: 6Flow:  7Series Congruity: 7Writing: 6Ending: 7Total: 6In DeptBest Part: Lily's being decent.
Worst Part: Mia is just too much.
Thoughts Had: Mia stop it!; wtf.; GET OVER IT!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: ehShort Review: Okay i am done with Mia, i will keep reading, and hope for better, but we'll see.
Stop with Micheal.
It's not okay.
Lily thank you for being decent in this book.
Thou you had other plans for Mia, but still, you weren't too bad this time around.
Review in GIF Form:
I loved Mia's speech at the end but the entire Michael/Mia plot in this book made me super uncomfortable considering the fact that she's 15 and he's 18; he really didn't handle the situation the way I expected him to.
This was a pretty great book in a (so far) shaping to be epic series.Let me first start with the good things:Mia is still awkward, but she does her best to fulfil her princess role, and you can see that she is getting better and better at it with each book.
From a girl who didn’t want to be a princess, who refused to do princess stuff, she is now making decisions, helping out her people, and taking on her princess role.
I hope the other books will also still talk about this topic, and that we will see Mia’s and Michael’s relationship grow.Ah, yes, another good thing.
Yes Mia still freaks out, it's who she is.
Sure Michael is a dreamboat and not like most guys his age, but he's still a freshman in college and in a totally different place in his life.
Frankly I'm proud Mia stood up for herself and told him she wasn't ready.
It's an example to other girls Mia's age that they don't have to have sex to have a boyfriend and should not be pressured into things they aren't ready for.
Sure it seems like he's exerting pressure on Mia, but I think it's much more that he's just being open with her.
I'm not sure I even remember that.Most surprising part: How often Mia actually said "sex".
This it the Doing It book and I just remembered everyone calling it that all the time.
I was in college at the time and lent it to several friends.Actually, maybe the most surprising part is this is another one that worked a lot better for me these days.
Mia's really coming into her own.Another thing that struck me about these books is how well they integrate school.
In this installment, Mia starts to realize her own abilities and begins to stand up for herself.
Yes, she is still uncomfortable in her own skin, worries over everything and has the same streak of putting herself down, but she is beginning to grow up.
And that is good.One of the best things so far about this series is that Mia does grow and change while still retaining her lovely self-effacing personality.
She's beginning to be a tiny bit more self-assured.Mia has been in a relationship now for several months and the natural progression of that scares her.
I swear these just get better and better,as usual Mia is her stressed out assuming the worst about every situation self this time its the possible environmental disaster she has bestowed on genovia, feeling pressure to sleep with Michael or should I say "Do it" all the while dealing with an election presidency she didn't want to run in and a English teacher who seems bent on giving Mia B's instead of A Grades. Like the previous books Mia' s dilemma's are handled with humour and alot of love bring on book 7!
If there is one thing that I think I can say about Mia, it's that she's an accurate representation of teenage kids.
I'm not sure if Mia has really developed at all so far in this series.
Mia had so little faith in her mother that it was baffling.
After listening to what Lana told her (which you would think she would know better than to do that), the book tailspins into Mia consistently worrying about her relationship with Michael and instead of talking to him about it she just worries more and more.
Princess Mia is worried now that boyfriend Michael is a college freshman, she will be expected to DO IT.
(Emphasis hers.) She speaks up for herself and Michael agrees to wait.
He says, "I'm not going to wait around forever." Ugh, boys are jerks.Also, there was an unnecessary side plot of Mia and girlfriends trying to figure out if a new classmate is a boy or a girl, culminating in an awful slumber party scene.
The new student turns out to be a girl (which makes their teasing okay?
Don't think so.) and they befriend her and then stick up for her when she's taunted by other bullies.
Amelia. If you are afraid to speak to your boyfriend about sex to the point where you genuinely believe he will break up with you, you are not ready for a relationship.
Same The Princess diaries and same Meg Cabot. Not bad. More like 3.5 stars.
In earlier books, I got a bit fed up with Mia for being so dense about certain things...
Oh yes, that was me at that age, and I could definitely feel for Mia...
(Man, I never want to think about a lot of those times again.)I laughed a lot at this volume, and in particular, the references to Sailor Moon were cracking me up because I too started watching that in high school, as did a bunch of my friends.
I think just about any book that repeatedly mentions Sailor Moon is going to have a warm spot in my heart.
Just love this princess story.The story described well about immature character coming from 15 years old girl name Mia Thermopolis.
She has an overactive imagination, spontaneous, easy worried and super overprotecting with her little brother.
Michael, Mia’s boyfriend somehow is an ideal type for boyfriend.
Well in some part I got a little fed up about how Mia mention over and over again about to do ‘it’ or not, but it just because she still so young and naive, lack knowledge about all that things.
At the end I love about her speech too.
I've read silly books as a preteen so I thought I would do ok with this one, but it nearly drove me crazy.
There was absolutely no plot, just the diary of a very selfish preteen girl with no real thought.
All that happened was she nearly destroyed the ecosystem of her own country and seemed to think that it wasn't that big of deal, and she was afraid her college boyfriend would want to "do it." That was the entire novel.
If I was stuck in side the head of an airhead, I would at least hope that something happened in the plot to make up for it, but there was no plot to this book!
