https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5203.She_s_Come_Undone
Most of the plot points I mention here are either in the actual cover copy of the book, in the Goodreads summary, or occur somewhere within the first ten pages or so.
The rest are so vague (e.g., hooking up with a bad boyfriend -- a plot point that probably occurs in some form in, oh, half of the books ever written) that if you consider them "spoilers," I'm not really sure why you read book reviews at all.Further addendum: If you're about to complain about spoilers in this review, please see comment 56 below.
Yes. I hated this book.
To this day I refer to it as "that goddamn whale book." What repelled me then is that the main character, a fat girl, bonds with a real fucking whale and it's supposed to be Deep and Meaningful.
"Yes, Mr. Whale.
I am a fat girl.
Also, the fat girl hates herself so has a creepily awkward lesbian hookup with a janitor and subsequently kills said janitor's fish.
I don't know why everyone was beside themselves about Lamb as a man writing a female POV, either.
How come no one makes a huge fuss like that when a woman writes a male POV?
This book sucked.
A) What the hell does a MAN know about writing about a fat girl's life?
Thus making whole book wrong.
The only reason I even read this book was because I forgot a book on an airplane and was offered this.
When choosing between reading ANYTHING and watching yet ANOTHER Julie Roberts movie in-flight, I will chose the book.
I should've watched the stupid movie.
I want those precious moments of my life back.
The only reason I will give this one star is because it has accomplished the act of being shaped like a book.
Lamb so captures the teenage girl spirit in this book (or at least the spirit of a crushed and ruined teenage girl) that it's hard to believe this wasn't written by a woman.Delores's story is moving and has something we can all relate to, especially those of us who have ever gone through a trauma or depression.
And even if you haven't been through anything difficult (which I find hard to believe) you should still read this book, because it's still a really good book.And now, I'm going to end this because I have forgotten what else I want to say.
She puts on a tough exterior but inside is as soft as the marshmallows she finds comfort in.Dolores is plagued with heartache, hurt and uncertainty.
She finally finds herself and makes peace with her past.There is no need for you to have experienced all the hurt, heartache and tragedy as Dolores to empathize with her, all you have to be is a woman.
Some how, and I am not sure how, Wally Lamb has totally tapped into how it feels to be a teenage girl, an abused girl, a girl coming into a woman, a woman having her heart broken for the first time by the man of her dreams, and a woman making it on her own after all of these things.Truly an incredible book.
Let me put it this way: if this book were wine, it wouldn't even be Boone's Farm. 'Nuff said.
Yes, the characters and situations were godawful, and at times it was more than a little contrived.
A lot of people on this forum said it was hard to believe that so many horrible things could happen to one person - that I don't think is true.
I have known people who have had that many horrible things happen to them.
But some of the situations were pretty far-fetched.
I still remember this book so well even though I read it years ago.
Even though I didn't relate to it personally that much, something about that book just stayed with me long after I read it.
I also didn't buy his understanding of growing up as a fat girl.
Here is a review by someone named Colin who I don't know but I completely agree with:"Yes. I hated this book.
To this day I refer to it as "that goddamn whale book." What repelled me then is that the main character, a fat girl, bonds with a real fucking whale and it's supposed to be Deep and Meaningful.
I read that part as weird homophobic classist shit, at least back then, and that's the impression that will stand, because I'm never reading it again.I don't know why everyone was beside themselves about Lamb as a man writing a female POV, either.
You can skip this one.
If you get the talking book version on cds, you can skip it across the surface of the nearest large body of water you can find, until it sinks.
As it sinks you might hear a voice sounding like Oprah saying " this is the beautiful, unconventional and ultimately life glug affirming glug story of a woman glug glug who endures glug glerg every tribulation glag glag which Wally Lamb could think glug of having studied daytime gluuuurgggg soaps for a year......glgg...rape....ggggg....self-harm......ggg...mental hospital....ggg......"until finally, all that can be heard is the tweeting of an odd looking bird in a nearby bush.
Its curiously unmusical trill sounds likeyoufellforthehypeagain!youfellforthehypeagain!youfellforthehypeagain!
Mr. Lamb was a writing teacher at my high school in CT and actually helped me quite a bit in writing my college application essays.
As a person, Mr. Lamb is wonderful and I will always remember him with high praise.Which is part of the reason why I wanted to love this book so much.
The book became incredibly predictable - not conventionally, i.e. boy meets girl, etc - but rather, if there was a situation described and you imagined the worst possible outcome, that is what would happen!
That is what this book reads like - page after page after page of it.
This particular book is written in a woman’s prospective.
Then it goes on to reveal situations about her father, her mother’s mental health issues and how the main character deals with these issues.
Through out the book you get to learn what goes on inside of her head.
The book moves through college, she is then in a mental institution and while trying to get her life back in order she finds a man.
You then get to learn about her relationship with this man.
In whole, the book is a fantastic read.
You will read it in one sitting.
She’s Come Undone (Wally Lamb)A week after finishing this book, I still have conflicting opinions.
It’s hard to synthesize them into a coherent review, so I’m just going to summarize what I liked and disliked.On the plus side:Easy to read: The story is told as a first-person narrative by the main protagonist, Dolores.
There is something completely admirable in the way that Dolores doesn’t simply buckle, but – against considerable odds – manages to reach a level of self-awareness that affords her a measure of contentment in her own skinAs against that:Hard to read: For the same reasons that the book of Job is not your favorite book of the bible (If the book of Job is your favorite, either you need psychological counseling, or have evolved to a remarkably advanced spiritual state.
In fact, at the end the chapter in which we are introduced to Jack and his generically cute wife Dolores says the whole family fell in love with a couple.
Dolores's mother was fucking Jack, so clearly she didn't love his wife.
It didn't make sense, felt contrived, a plot device to keep the story moving and avoid it getting bogged down in the mental hospital.So I feel like this is getting a little long, so I will skip ahead to what I consider the third part of Dolores's life, when she leaves Dante and moves back into her Grandmother's house.
Women complaining that a "man" was writing about the experience of a young girl, or one very angry reviewer "hating" this book because what did the author know about being fat and HOW DARE he refer to Dolores as obese (Dolores, at 13 weighed 250 pounds, I'm sorry but that IS obese).
As a lesbian, and strong feminist, I took no offense at all and I think if you are someone who is not looking to compare your life with Dolores's, then you will love and appreciate this book.
Dolores is funny, smart, and at the end of her story has not only faced her demons, but smacked them around a few times and sent them flying.
Years later she runs across a picture of him, tracks down where he lives (without the internet), moves across the country and into his building (the flat directly across the hall, no less) and gets him to fall in love with and marry her in very short order.
She’s been a withdrawn, traumatized fat girl for the majority of her life but as soon as she loses weight and meets Dante, she develops these mad boyfriend-acquiring skills that turn him from lothario to devoted partner and husband.
It's like the author went to a women's shelter and picked up a pamphlet on everything bad that can happen to women. Then he went home and wrote a book in which all of those things happen to the main character or one of her family members or friends. This is the worst book I have ever read, and I read The Castle of Otranto for an English class in college.
Although well-written, this is one of those books that I finished in a few short days because I refused to put the book down until something good happened to the main character...Yeah. Good luck with that one.
I have read this book twice, which is something I never do.
The first time I read it was in high school.
The two times I have read this, I took away something different each time.
Some might criticize this book because it was a little depressing in some areas, but I praise it for being real, taking on the challenge of a woman's mind, and ultimately for just being so memorable.
I don't re-read books.
However, I will read this for a third and probably a fourth time.
It is easily probably my most favorite book EVER.
I'm going to be honest, I was quite young when I read this...maybe 15...but it was one of those stories that simply sticks in your brain.
With everything in me...nothing about this was uplifitng whatsoever and it ends with her bonding with a whale.
I wanted to feel sorry for her, especially because her life was so messed up but it seems she did nothing to help herself but only proceeded to make things worse.The most I got out of this was wondering if one could actually loose weight by imagining your food had mold on it like she did.
I hated this book.
I don't know how I managed to finish it.
I have read some of the reviews where the readers were impressed with how well the male author relayed a story of a struggling woman.
Are you kidding me?
I found it insulting that this guy thinks that is how a woman would behave.
Let me tell you something, I have gone through some hard times in my life, never did I find myself personifying a whale while sitting next to it watching it die.
In my opinion, the story was about her descent into insanity - but, apparently where I read "insanity" some found "profundity." No. Nothing profound there.
I hate this book so much it can change my opinion of you if you say you like it.Bad things happen to girl, girl does SERIOUSLY RANDOM CRAP. Like, "Now that we've had sex, Random Lesbian, I would like to kill your fish."Girls, especially the big, giant, fat ones, cannot control themselves or command their destiny. But they really dig whales! (Goldfish beware!)Oh my God, I hate it.
Loved this even more the 2nd time. My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
Or does she just survive and find herself in a realistic way, the only way people ever really can?In some ways Dolores was a turn off, and I don't mean her weaknesses, because I understood those.
I didn't mind that - there was just something a little mean-spirited about her, but I guess that's another thing that makes her a more realistic and honest character.This book is heavy - I don't mean just length, although that's considerable, but because I went through so many long phases with Dolores, phases that were enough to cover a whole novel by each phase itself.
This dark coming-of-age story was just an ok read for me. It felt long, a bit overdone and had very few happy moments along the way.It all begins in the late 1950's with Delores, a lying, foul-mouthed young girl who enters her teens friendless and grossly overweight. Her lack of proper parental guidance and naivety leads to her troubled existence resulting in a disturbed young woman who struggles and searches for sex, love and acceptance in all the wrong places.I loved Lamb's I Know This Much Is True, but "She's Come Undone" fell short of my expectations.
Due to the exigencies of anatomy, I don't feel qualified to comment on that but I can say that the story is at least mildly interesting and definitely well-written.I'm forced to wonder though, would I have liked this book more had the front jacket not featured Oprah's ever-present Seal of Approval?
I'd say that maybe I would put this back on the shelf and read it again 5 years from now when I have forgotten all of the hype, but life is short and my reading list is long and I don't feel the need to reread merely average books.
I have felt much more empathy with Dolores on this second read fifteen years after I first read this.
Was Dolores's personality formed by being overweight or was she that type of person regardless?
I think that Lamb does a reasonably good job in speaking from the female point of view and he provides many minor characters and various issues which keeps the reader interested.
While I Know This Much Is True is still my favorite Lamb novel, She's Come Undone is also a good offering.
Upon finishing this book I felt compelled to sit perfectly still, in the warm glow of the words of the story, to think about the life of Delores Price.
That may be true.
But for me the book was a huge winner because my heart completely overflowed with intense empathy for Delores Price.
If an author can make me feel such intense empathy and compassion for a character, that author did an outstanding job regardless of their gender!
Next up is I Know This Much Is True that I am reading with a Goodreads friend – can’t wait to dig in!Keep reading and sharing – and support your local library!
Half way through the story I was thinking please let something positive happen in this book or just something uplifting.
I found the plot just too unbelievable and a bit contrived.
The characters however are well developed and you really do get a great sense of time and place from this novel and Wally Lamb's writing.I think that this will make a great book club read as we had an excellent discussion on this one.
When I read this book, I felt like the author took his (surprisingly the author is a man for such a female story) hand, clawed through my ribcage and tore my heart out.
And this relationship takes another very large piece of her heart away in ways that I cannot go into without spoiling the book.This is one of those journeys where you feel like the end is a cliff overlooking sharp, jagged rocks.
The problems with this book are-Stereotypes.
But Lamb doesn't get this so both books I've read by him just have to be chock full of the most annoying stereotypes.
It gets frustrating.Dolores is an unpleasant character who makes such terrible decisions such as basically stalking a man, killing someone's fish and just being terrible to people who try to be good to her.
Worse is how certain characters, such as a gay man dying of AIDS, exist more to teach her things than to be their own people.
It's the sort of book I liked the first time, but reading it two more times just cements the problems with it.
