https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6328.Revolting_Rhymes
I really enjoyed this book full of short stories! All the short stories were remakes of fairy tales. They were all gruesome and some of them even intertwined. I highly suggest this book for anyone that likes fairy tales and/or anyone that likes Roald Dahl. I really feel this was one of his best works, even though it is really short.
Revolting Rhymes (Paperback) by Roald Dahl is a book I read to my kids and then to my grandkids. This book has given everyone giggles in our house from the very young to the very old. It is the kind of book that never grows old itself. It is a keeper. I still have it from many years ago. I can not count how many times this poor book has been read! It was worth every penny.
Especially given Roald Dahl's age when he wrote this in the 1980s, I'm pretty certain that he did not mean it to have any sexual connotation, especially since cinderella is, by definition, someone who looks dirty and untidy all the time!Besides that, anyone who doesn't want to "expose" their young child to the corrupting influence of this book because of that one word, taken out of context, is extremely unrealistic about what sort of language they hear/use when they are in the school yard!Let your children read it, I guarantee they'll thank you for it!
This was another major laugh riot from Dahl. I kept cracking up when I was reading this at work.
Another of my favourite Dahl books Fairy tales with a gruesome twist. Like poetry that flies off the page.Spent many a day reading this book with delight and laughter. Have introduced it to my cousin who is now old enough to appreciate the exciting tales as the Characters jump off the page.Highly recommend if your wanting something a lil quirky and different to read. That will have you giggling at the crazy tales.Enjoy!
The best poems in this collection are true masterpieces of satire. Here's the start of Cinderella:"I guess you think you know this story.You don't. The real one's much more gory.The phoney one, the one you know,Was cooked up years and years ago,And made to sound all soft and sappyjust to keep the children happy.Mind you, they got the first bit right,The bit where, in the dead of night,The Ugly Sisters, jewels and all,Departed for the Palace Ball,While darling little CinderellaWas locked up in a slimy cellar,Where rats who wanted things to eat,Began to nibble at her feet."
Description: Do you think Cinderella married the prince and lived happily ever after, and that the three little pigs outsmarted the wolf? Think again! Premier storyteller Roald Dahl twists the fate of six favorite fairy tales, in this picture book edition with vibrant new cover art by Quentin Blake. Fairy tales have never been more revolting! http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/...
A short compendium of fifteen tales told by one of the great children's storytellers of all time.
Dahl uses his wonderful rhyming ability to re-tell some of the better known fairy tales to 'set the record straight'.
Children can marvel at all the things they will learn from Dahl and his mind that spills full of wonderful ideas.
From there, Dahl takes the reader on to recount a few lesser known members of the animal kingdom, all of whom have special abilities.
Not nearly as revolting as I would have liked, but still nice rhyming takedowns of some popular fairy tales. The best bit is the femme fatale take on Little Red Riding Hood. Never mess with a girl who knows how to handle herself around wolves.
This book was alright. The twist's of the stories where kinda funny. It was short and average so I picked it up and kinda liked it.
Roald Dahl suele ser uno de los escritores de la infancia de muchos niños, yo incluida.
En Cuentos en verso para niños perversos nos encontramos con algunos de los cuentos más conocidos de nuestra niñez, como puedan ser Blancanieves o Cenicienta, pero al estilo Roald Dahl.
Me hubiera encantado encontrarme con más historietas cambiadas y en verso, porque de verdad, son geniales, divertidísimas y un poco más grotescas que las que nosotros hemos oído, como bien dice Roald Dahl, cambiadas y retocadas a lo largo de los años.
چقدر دنبال این کتاب بودم که براش ریویو بنویسم ولی اسم دقیقش یادم نبود، چون خیلی وقت پیش خوانده بودمش.این کتاب جالبه، چون ایدهی جدیدی داره؛ پایان دیگری برای داستانهای معروف کودکی مثل سیندرلا و سفیدبرفی و.. خواندنش لذتبخش بود و من یکجا پاش نشستم و تمامش کردم.
چقدر دنبال این کتاب بودم که براش ریویو بنویسم ولی اسم دقیقش یادم نبود، چون خیلی وقت پیش خوانده بودمش.این کتاب جالب‌ه، چون ایده‌ی جدیدی داره؛ پایان دیگری برای داستان‌های معروف کودکی مثل سیندرلا و سفیدبرفی و.. خواندنش لذت‌بخش بود و من یک‌جا پاش نشستم و تمامش کردم.
I may be repeating myself from a previous Roald Dahl review, but I devoured this book like a chocolate bar. Dahl has managed to put his delightfully dark spin on fairy tales we know very well (or do we?) by retelling them in rhymes and adding a signature twist ending. My favorites were the last two, "Little Red Riding Hood" and "The Three Little Pigs", because they were extremely unpredictable unlike the others. This was a quick read for poetry, and it was a good read as well, if I may also say.
Kembali lagi kita dihiburLima kisah pengantar tidurBukan kisah ceria di hari liburTapi banyolan gila
2016 Reading Challenge #1: A book based on a fairy tale.¡Qué librito tan genial!
Me ha encantado de principio a fin, toda esa ironía y humor negro que acompaña a cada uno de los cuentos, pasando por las maravillosas ilustraciones de Quentin Blake.Si bien no todas las rimas son afortunadas, la esencia y el cometido de estos siniestros cuentitos no se pierde del todo con la traducción: divierte tanto a grandes como a chicos.
Me gustó mucho la despiadada Caperucita tan alejada de la versión original y el revés de Juan y las habichuelas mágicas.
He leído algunos en voz alta para mi hermanito y lo disfrutamos un montón, ojalá fuera más largo.
Espero tener la oportunidad de leerlo en inglés y conocer más de la obra de este autor.
This was one of my favourite books as a child, I love Roald Dahl’s wit in turning the fairytales we all know and love on their heads. There are six revolting rhymes retelling famous tales such as Cinderella, Jack and the Beanstalk and Little Red Riding Hood, each one being full of gruesome details and full of satire. I love how these are really entertaining for children but also very amusing for adults as well, a talent Roald Dahl possesses in spades.
I don't know how I went 30 years without this book in my life. Dahl retells some classic fairytales - and ends with an amazing mashup of Red Riding Hood and the 3 Littles Pigs - with the perfect amount of fun and sharp, creepy humor. I made my husband read it immediately after I finished, and I think writing this review just inspired a quick reread for me.
i laughed out loud more times than i would care to admit as a 21 year old but i had a great time so who cares !
I suppose I should be more offended by the fact that he's just beheaded the other stepsister and was about to do the next one, but I was like, "Slut, wow, are kids ready for this?" You should totally read this though, even if no one hijacks your friend and gets him to play Excite Truck right when you were in the middle of a fun time playing Wii tennis.
"Revolting Rhymes" is truly a revolting series of famous fairy tales that have horror twist to each one. My most favorite story out this book is "Jack and the Beanstalk" where Jack has to deal with his insensitive mother while getting some golden leaves from the giant's beanstalk.Quentin Blake's illustrations are both funny and scary at the same time and Roald Dahl's rhyming for this book is fantastic. For anyone who love revolting tales from Roald Dahl, "Revolting Rhymes" is definitely the book for you!
I can't remember the last time I read rhymes.. Decades, perhaps? I absolutely loved this collection and had a blast reading all of them out loud (to my self ^_^") and with impressions too!This is interestingly enough the end of classic stories as we know them. I think I like Dahl's version, though.
Roald Dahl memang seorang pawang kataYang sangat piawai membuat cerita berimaDi buku ini kau bisa ba
Me ha encantado.Lo empecé, por costumbre, en su versión traducida al castellano, y debo reconocer que el traductor ha hecho un trabajo magnífico, traduciendo los versos del inglés manteniendo el mensaje y la rima.
Pero tras leer el primer cuento (Cenicienta) y decidir que iba a seguir adelante con el resto del libro (¡que es cortísimo!), decidí pasarme a la versión original, empezando de nuevo desde el principio.
Y, a pesar de la estupenda traducción, os recomiendo fervientemente que lo hagáis si tenéis cierto dominio del inglés: leer los versos de Dahl en su inglés original es incluso mejor que leer la versión española, por estupendamente traducida que esté…¿Qué es lo que tienen de bueno estos cuentos?
This book was really funny and I enjoyed it a lot. Lots of twist and turns that I really enjoyed.
The rhyming, to me, felt singable and that made them funnier still.Of all those included, my favourites—which I think are the best-written too—were the versions of Cinderella, Snow White and Little Red Riding Hood.
Alack!’He grabbed her dress to hold her back.As Cindy shouted, ‘Let me go!’The dress was ripped from head to toe.She ran out in her underwear,And lost one slipper on the stair.Next in the list of best and funniest would be Snow White.
ah, that's more like it
This book is a collection of children's fairy tales...
Roald Dahl has cleverly made these classic fairy tales fun, revolting and sometimes rather gruesome.
The book is suitable for both children and adults, I loved them as a child and still find them very entertaining now.
This book would be brilliant for whole class or group reading as many children, especially boys, are sure to find this new version of the classics they know fun and very entertaining.
In my opinion this collection of cleverly written fairy tales is most definitely one of Roald Dahl's best!
Dahl manages to revive old, worn fairy tales into quirky, fun adventures. Each story surprised me with the ending - often darker than the stories that we are used to (Disney!). I loved the little twists that he gives to other little fairy tales. Ah, Piglet, you must never trustYoung ladies from the upper crust. Audiobook CommentsRead by Tamsin Greig, Stephen Mangan and Miriam Margolyes - they really knocked this audiobook out of the park!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
خوندنش به شدت لذت بخش بود با اینکه کتاب در حقیقت برای کودکان نوشته شده ولی به نظر میاد بیشتر برای کودکان بزرگهباز هم طرز فکر خاص و عجیب رولد دال که داستان های معروف رو اونجوری که دلش می خواد تعریف می کنهمترجم بسیار عالی از پس ترجمه ی این متن بر آمده که حالت شعر داره و بسیار روانهلابد فکر کرده اید از سرگذشت سیندرلا آگاهیدنه جانم، از این بابت خیلی در اشتباهیدداستان واقعی سیندرلا پر از خون و خون ریزی استاما قصه ای که برای شما گفته اند مایه آبروریزی است
Too good to be missed. If you read the presentation, you'll notice that Dahl reinterpreted 6 famous tales, in verse, and added his own personal touch. I'm pretty sure they're all free on different sites, or the ebook as a whole. I found Snow-White and the Seven Dwarfs  in a bit.
