https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6262281-gulliver-s-travels-and-other-writings
The Travels, I mean.Second piece is a lovely novel called A Tale of a Tub: Written for the Universal Improvement of Mankind (spelling here slightly modernized).
These several treatises are touched upon and lightly discussed in the work under discussion.A Tale of a Tub, being a charming, if rather standard and Traditional kind of novel, is organized along the following lines.
A Tale of a Tub.” (Our author’s lack of originality really starts to show in these section=titles).So much for what ought to count as Swift’s mastery of the form of the novel, entire and complete.
What high adventure. Maybe I was Gulliver in my youth. I certainly had an adventure.🐯👍
I picked up this collection because I wanted to read A Modest Proposal.
It's one of those must-reads, and only nine pages long.
Written in 1729, it's a bitingly satirical economic solution to the problem of poverty among Irish families with too many mouths to feed.
Quite funny in some places, unless you're a very literal person, in which case you'll find it gruesome.
As for the rest of the book, I've decided not to waste my time.
Besides that, it's un-be-freaking-lievably boring, and just plain gross in some places.
One star for Gulliver.I read bits and pieces of other selections in the book, and won't be reading any more.
There was more focus on the culture of these beings (for the purposes of satire) than on any actual plot.Not to mention, of all the bizarre places he visits, one of them is Japan, which apparently has trade relations with some of these fantastic creatures, and there is just so much wrong with that.For people well versed in British political history of this time period, I'm sure the book is a delight, and if I was reading it at that time period, as a member of the intended audience, I may have appreciated it more.
Throughout, the language and descriptions are delightful, and there is enough action to hold the attention of a modern reader.“The Tale of a Tub,” “The Battle of the Books,” and “The Mechanical Operation of the Spirit” are shorter pieces which satire English learned society in their spiritual hypocrisy, their divisiveness, and their disregard for tradition.
“Mechanical Operation of the Spirit” is a sort of parody of the “Enthusiastic” religious trend of his day, essentially arguing that they have confused sensual pleasure for religious devotion.Also worth noting are “A Modest Proposal” and “The Abolishing of Christianity,” both of which satire positions in an extreme way, making it appear that the author is arguing for the exact opposite of what he wants.
has a collection of Swift's poems+ politically incorrect, "A Tale of a Tub." "A Description of the Morning" (1709) by Jonathan SwiftNow hardly here and there a hackney-coachAppearing, showed the ruddy morn's approach.Now Betty from her master's bed had flown,And softly stole to discompose her own.The slipshod prentice from his Master's door,Had par'd the dirt, and sprinkled round the floor.Now Moll had whirl'd her mop with dext'rous airs,Prepar'd to scrub the entry and the stairs.The youth with broomy stumps began to trace,The kennel-edge where wheels had worn the place.The small-coal man was heard with cadence deep,'Till drown'd in shriller notes of chimney-sweep,Duns at his Lordship's gate began to meet,And brickdust Moll had scream'd thru half the street.The turnkey now his flock returning sees,Duly let out a-nights to steal for fees:The watchful bailiffs take their silent stands;And school-boys lad with sachels in their hands.Simply loved this classic children's tale (THIS edition does have footnotes) As this author was born in Dublin, Ireland, in 1667 the son of English parents.
There was some interesting social and political commentary in here, especially in Parts III and IV.
And I appreciated that.
He always goes on adventures because he apparently can't stand to be at home for more than a couple of months at a time and craves the open seas.
And when he's on these adventures, he never seems to miss his family back home.
It seems like an afterthought combined with a tidy way of wrapping up each tale--on the last page it's always "and then I returned home to my wife and children." The end.
This is a book that everyone should read at some point in their life.
I was surprised a few times to discover that some of the ideas that I thought were fairly new, actual were already being talked about in Swift's time.
You can get a good view of what society was doing and how little some of it has changed over time.
like with many classical books, we all think that we know the story until you read them.
That's when you can get the little details hidden in the greater story that makes it complete and real.
I read this years ago too, but I still remember a lot of it. ;-)
This is an interesting story of a man traveling and meeting people SO different from himself. It is difficult to read ... the language is a bit unusual, but mostly it's just the writing style is hard to follow. In honesty, while I read the entire book, I'm not sure I really "got" it all. And I'm sure there is some deeper symbolism that I didn't even begin to uncover. Might be worth another read sometime down the road.
18th Century English political satire at its best. For those who know their history books (of England) the political allegory will surely tickle the funny bone.
Some interesting stories; lots of connections to pop culture references.

The introduction to my edition claims that "Gulliver's Travels has held our attention for nearly three centuries because of its uncanny ability to be whatever we have wanted it to be: a political book, a children's book, a merry book, a mad book, satiric, ironic, parodic, perhaps a novel, perhaps not." The source material sure doesn't read like children's fare.
(Although that's nothing to the utterly scathing rant against lawyers in Part IV--and yes, a lot of its points are still relevant too.) Certainly his tale in the last part of the Yahoos (humanoid beasts) and Houyhnhnms (horse-shaped but noble and rational) is deeply biting about human nature.
I hadn't remembered a flying island or any of Gulliver's other pit stops, nor the length of his time away from home, so it's very likely that my previous readings were of an abridged or completely kid-oriented version of the book rather than the copy I currently have (which is pretty old and well-used).Then vs.
Doesn't sound like Swift thought much of women, although I suppose that wasn't that unusual three hundred-odd years ago.In our discussion of the book at the library book club, which is what I re-read it for this round, we decided the scientific explanation for the flying island could be read as a very early example of science fiction.
Gulliver’s Travels by Jonathan SwiftClassic, yes but just 7 out of 10 for this pretentious reader- Is there any novel more famous than Gulliver’s Travels- I doubt it These are notes that do not refer to style, objective merits, historical context and all the other literary aspects.For a professional opinion a reader is way better off searching for an appreciated critic and skip these amateur scribbling.For what is worth, once in a while curiosities attract our attention, be they cats that adopt

It's a wonderful book. At first, I didn't like it but that was because I was reading it as an adventure book and not as a satire. This book is a satire criticizing scientists, philosophers and the politicians of then England. AMAZING!
I don’t think I read this as a kid, or if I did I only read the Lilliput part, though I did remember that Gulliver also met big people who treated him like a little doll.
He makes his way back to England and turns in revulsion from his wife and children and all other humans, being so traumatized by the Yahoos and his own sense that he’s really one of them.The satire is funny, even when you don’t track down all the specific references to Swift’s contemporary world, but the last part where Gulliver is revolted by the Yahoos and their behavior is no longer so funny.
Thankfully I rallied, & in the end raced over the finish line as the book itself took on a whole new dimension of profundity in its final section.
If Alan Moore wrote in the 1700s while on a continuous speed binge, you would get something along these lines.
Part of the problem for me is the unvarying tone, all so matter-of-fact, so prehistoric in its way as compared to the various moods & voices of the modern & post modern authors who have populated our reading for the past century or so.
Due mostly to the age of the book and language idiosyncrasies of time, I often found this difficult to read out loud, as did my children find it equally difficult to understand.
;) My eldest son wanted me to give this only one star, and the others concurred.
However I feel they didn't fully grasp the classic stature of the story.
It's a story all young people should have a go at when their reading level becomes strong enough.
Just keep an old Oxford handy for when you stumble over those now unused 300yr old words and want to know what they mean.
Will the real Gulliver please stand up?Is it an authentic Gulliver experience to read the children's picture book?Or is it a more genuine experience to read it, unedited, without pictures, on a Kindle?I read both this week.
I liked the children's version better.
The pictures were fun and the edited text included the best of the original and omitted the extraneous material that seemed irrelevant to the heart of the book.
I'm happy I read the original as well as the edited version.
I can see the appeal of this book for readers.
Funny.
Thoughtful.

I was under the impression that this was a book of fairy tales, but it turned out to be commentary on the social structure, government, and morality of the people of his time. Many things he pointed out are still applicable today. His descriptions of the way people view morality and reason, among other things, are very insightful. This should be required reading in schools to help give people the perspective they need to look at their own lives and see where they need to improve. I'll likely make this required reading for my own children.
I finally finished this book today. I extremely struggled to get through the Other Stories part. The part with Gulliver's Travels surprised me. I've always thought it was just about the little people of Lilliput ... but there's 3 other sections which include Giants, an Island in the Sky and Horses. So on a scale of 5 stars .... I give Gulliver's Travels a 3 and the Other Stories a 1 ... so giving the book a 2 (or 4 on a scale of 10 stars).
Finally read this one. Probably would have been much more fulfilling if I were up on my British history of the time frame during which he wrote - although some of the satire was even funnier considering the passage of time. For example, I am sure that his making fun of Isaac Newton's belief in gravity is much more interesting since it is no longer questioned as a valid scientific operator but is accepted as the truth. And learning where the word "yahoo" came from was a little bonus.
The real rating I give this book is a 1.5 star, but I put 2 just to be nice. I just hated the ending and the constant satire. It annoyed me to death. I should just be able to read a book without having to analyze it and think about what Swift's meaning behind it is supposed to be. For Gulliver to end up conversing with his horses after all he experienced just isn't a great ending to me, let alone a great book.
Some classics tell their age more than others. Swift wrote satire about current events--and that quite brilliantly--but some of the objects of his critique are dead and buried. Still, the story itself holds its own well enough. New lands, giants, ship wrecks, pirates, mad scientists, talking horses...there's something in it for everyone.
Gulliver's Travels was one of my all-time favorite books as a child and young adult. Adventures beyond the known and off into the worlds of the unknown, there are remarkable things to discover and rediscover as you follow Gulliver through his world of travels. Swift makes creating other worlds a fun and fascinating venture. This book is on my bookshelf of children's best reads.
The first time I tried to read this for high school English I had a version that was printed as Swift had written it: strange spelling, capital letters in the middle of sentences. I could not get through it. Once I found a more comprehensible version, I made it through, but I never really enjoyed any of it. Adore the animated film, though ("All's well!).
Fun though it was to revisit Gulliver's Travels, it was the 'other writings' in this collection that held the value for me, as I was previously ignorant of their existence. A Tale of a Tub was brilliant, as were the Bickerstaff Papers. In comparison Gulliver's Travels takes second place, along with Battle of the Books.
