https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129327.The_Case_of_Charles_Dexter_Ward
Η περίπτωση του Τσάρλς Ντέξτερ Γουόρντ είναι μια ιστορία στην οποία εφιάλτης και πραγματικότητα ενσωματώνονται και ρευστοποιούνται,ανακατεύονται με την αινιγματικότητα,το άγνωστο της ύπαρξης,το τερατώδες σκοτάδι,το «άλλο» σύμπαν,το σατανικό ψίθυρο του ατέρμονου διαστήματος,τις κοσμικές νύχτες και τις σιωπές, το χιμαιρικό, το άμορφο όν της φαντασίωσης και την αληθοφάνεια του τρόμου και δημιουργούντοπία,μέρη, μορφές,όντα,υπερκόσμια διάσταση,αινίγματα και ασύλληπτες πιθανότητες,που αγγίζουν τον αναγνώστη με άνεση,ακρίβεια και απόλυτα υπαινικτικό κλίμα, μεταφέροντας τον στην Νεκρομαντεία και στον Άλλο Χώρο.
Μέσα σε αυτή την ιστορία συναντάμε τον καταραμένο συγγραφέα Μπορέλους-που υποκινεί όλο το γαλαξία τρόμου του βιβλίου- ο οποίος έχει ανακαλύψει αλχημιστικό μυστικό και επαναφέρει στη ζωή τους νεκρούς, χωρίς να καταφύγει σε οποιαδήποτε εγκληματική Νεκρομαντεία.
Third: I find your general attitude towards a humble wizard such as myself, as well as towards my peers, we who only wish to remain immortal, even if it means possessing and discarding otherwise useless youths (like Charles Dexter Ward for example), so that we may come to learn ancient knowledge and thus reshape the world and all of mankind, for the better good no doubt, well...
The Case of Charles Dexter Ward is the only lengthy work of Lovecraft classified as a novel rather than a novella. Lovecraft wrote this story in 1927, and as per legend, When HPL finished writing this novel he was so disappointed with the final draft that he decided to shelve it instead of publishing it, and only after Lovecraft's demise did this work found the light in 1941. (It's not a legend, but a true fact. I just wanted to use "As per legend" in a sentence)So what is it all about?  ❝ I hav
The Case of Charles Dexter Ward is the only lengthy work of Lovecraft classified as a novel rather than a novella.
Lovecraft wrote this story in 1927, and as per legend, When HPL finished writing this novel he was so disappointed with the final draft that he decided to shelve it instead of publishing it, and only after Lovecraft's demise did this work found the light in 1941.
It was not a fun time.Anyways, Mr. Curwan, AKA Dark Wizard of Providence is long gone and his legacy was almost forgotten, thanks to the work of scared, yet sensible officials of the city.Almost forgotten.Enter Charles Dexter Ward.If you've read enough Lovecraftian tales, you will see the footprints of this story in many of his acclaimed tales.
Let me be clear at the outset of this review that when it comes to the work of H.P. Lovecraft, I am definitely one who drinks deep the kool-aid Cthulhu-aid. For me his stories are something to be savored and relished; succulent, meaty feasts of atmosphere, hyper-lush imagery and dark melodrama dipped in dread. If you’ve read other works by HPL and have not been impressed or fallen under his spell, this story is not likely to change your mind. However, if you are already a wanton Lovecraft gourm
PLOT SUMMARY:The Case of Charles Dexter Ward is the longest work of fiction produced by Lovecraft and is his only novel coming in at about 180 pages.
In brief, the novel recounts the story of a brilliant young man, Charles Dexter Ward, who in the early 1900‘s undergoes a bizarre and unexplained “mental collapse” soon after becoming obsessed with one of his ancestors named Joseph Curwen.
THOUGHTS :I don’t really want to go into any more detail because the slow unveiling of the mystery and the subtle clues and hints peppering the narrative that eventually all come together at the climax are quite impressive and part of the charm of the tale.
" What the thing was, he would never tell.
It was like some of the carvings on the hellish altar, but it was alive.
Nature had never made it in this form, for it was too palpably unfinished.
The deficiencies were of the most surprising sort, and the abnormalities of proportion could not be described." That was just a sample of the type of writing found within this short novel by H.P. Lovecraft.
Reading this reminded me how much I love this type of writing.
I hereby vow to read more of Lovecraft's work this year.
Yeah, I made a vow, baby.
A vow!
“There is about certain outlines and entities a power of symbolism and suggestion which acts frightfully on a sensitive thinker's perspective and whispers terrible hints of obscure cosmic relationships and unnameable realities behind the protective illusions of common vision.” That little passage explains why Lovecraft’s characters often go mad at the mere sight of blasphemous eldritch monstrosities from beyond; something I often wondered about. It is also a fine example of his penchant for con
It is also a fine example of his penchant for convoluted sentence structures.When I read At the Mountains of Madness I felt that Lovecraft is preferable in smaller doses, that is when his stories are not novel (or even novella) length.
Curwen of course wrecks all kinds of havoc because you don’t come back to life via black magic to do charity work.One thing I noticed about reading Lovecraft is that the creepy atmosphere is more effective if you read the stories in a quiet room, unfortunately, I read this book in a living room while family members are watching TV and it rendered the creep factor completely ineffective.
The blurb says: A nameless terror surges through centuries to engulf the soul of Charles Dexter Ward, a brilliant New England antiquarian.
Rather amusing in retrospect, as the character doesn't seem to realize the danger until near the end; if the book were written from Ward's perspective, presumably he would be having a satisfying few years of progressing in his fascinating historical research.
It is not very scary, so don't be put off by the NAMELESS TERROR expressed by various characters.
The Case of Charles Dexter Ward by H.P. Lovecraft is definitely one of his best works and this is a high compliment, as I have liked almost all that I have read from him.
The other element of this book that is noteworthy is the scope of influence that Lovecraft created.
Innumerable horror genre books and movies have borrowed liberally from Lovecraft’s themes and even works like Harry Potter show semblances of Lovecraftian influence.
If you like the horror genre, this is a must read, and if you have never read a Lovecraft work, this is a good one to start.
A very good read.
Insidious investigation!  A NAME TO REMEMBER A novella focused in the investigation of a psychiatrist about Charles Dexter Ward......medically certified insane, who escaped from a mental asylum (funny enough, while Arkham, Mass., inspired the famous Batman’s Arkham Asylum......it seems that there wasn’t any mental asylum in H.P. Lovecraft’s work named it in that way)......so the investigation of this psychiatrist who is obsessed with an ancestor involved in dark practices.But sometimes, the pas
Insidious investigation!

  A NAME TO REMEMBER
A novella focused in the investigation of a psychiatrist about Charles Dexter Ward......medically certified insane, who escaped from a mental asylum (funny enough, while Arkham, Mass., inspired the famous Batman’s Arkham Asylum......it seems that there wasn’t any mental asylum in H.P. Lovecraft’s work named it in that way)......so the investigation of this psychiatrist who is obsessed with an ancestor involved in dark practices.But sometimes, the past must be left in the past!
http://metalinvader.net/el/napalm-eye...Μια παλιά κριτική στο METAL INVADER!!!
The Case of Charles Dexter Ward (1927) is probably a culmination in Lovecraft’s career.
Finally the unearthing of a ghastly secret, hidden in a stifling underground, that presents a threat of cosmic proportions.More specifically, Lovecraft probably wrote The Case of Charles Dexter Ward with Poe’s story, The Facts in the Case of M.
Lovecraft also develops the theme of the doppelgänger, typical of the fantasy/science-fiction genre, from Stevenson’s The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde to Gaiman’s Coraline.All in all, however, Lovecraft's story is perhaps overly complex for a short novel, with many irrelevant background descriptions and epistolary texts about colonial Rhode Island; or maybe too stretched out for a short story, which makes it a bit winding and difficult to follow.The True Detective TV series (starring the excellent Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson) is, the way I see it, indirectly inspired by Lovecraft’s novella.
He is one of a kind and The Case of Charles Dexter Ward is one of those stories that shows just how great Lovecraft was.
It starts with the escape of Charles Dexter Ward from a private hospital near Providence, Rhode Island.
From Ward's research, private letters and rare diaries he managed to find, he found out that his ancestor 'was marvelled at, feared, and finally shunned like a plague'.You already know where Charles Dexter Ward would end up, but his path from a solitary young antiquarian to the changed man the doctor left in that hospital room is a remarkable story.
Nor did he even coin the "Cthulhu Mythos" term, which was the invention of August Derleth after HPL died.) But although exposure to this place sends our principal good guy into a temporary paralyzed state of catatonic terror, this book does lack some of the heavy-handed moralizing about the supposedly reason-annihilating terror of exposure to Lovecraft's view of nihilistic "reality" that appears in some of his stories (though one earlier passage hints at it.) In terms of his plotting here, a case could be made that this is perhaps one of Lovecraft's more "optimistic" works (if we can apply that adjective to anything from his pen :-) ).Lovecraft is a master of purple prose, one of the authors I most admire when considered strictly as a stylist, and he's at the top of his form here.
Joseph kept odd hours, had strange deliveries to his home, was seen visiting graveyards in the middle of the night, odd sounds and lights coming from his home at all hours, and that Curwen never seemed to age.
Painstaking efforts were made by the townspeople to cover up any trace of his existence.Charles to great lengths to discover the hidden grave of his ancestor and unravel the mystery of who Joseph Curwen was.
After investigating his home, it is learned that Charles is dead and that Dr Allen is indeed the resurrected Joseph Curwen in disguise.
Este es el primer libro que leo de Lovecraft (además del Necromicón, que es más que nada una serie de invocaciones y hechizos y no prosa propiamente tal) y lo he encontrado sencillamente magistral.Esta es la historia de Charles Dexter Ward, quien da título a la obra.
Bajo ninguna circunstancia significa que hayan quedado cabos sueltos en la novela, sino muy por el contrario, queda el lector con la sensación de que hay detrás un escenario muy profundo y bien pensado, del que no se puede dar cabal explicación a raíz de la historia del protagonista.No sé si lo he dicho con suficiente énfasis, pero esta obra es magnífica.
It evokes H.P.’s home city of Providence with love, incorporates a number of autobiographical details in its portrait of Charles Dexter Ward, amd convincingly combines in one lengthy sustained narrative the colonial witch scare atmosphere (including a brief reference to Salem), the dark romanticism of Hawthorne, and the customary Lovecraftian subterranean search for the Elder Gods and their minions.
I realized that The Case of Charles Dexter Ward is the closest thing Lovecraft ever came to a detective novel.
Lovecraft is a special writer, capable of twisting the mind of the reader in ways that all of the visual horror we are forever shown in this day and age can never accomplish.What WAS the thing at the bottom of the pit?
So many open questions to let our minds fill in the blanks with the things that horrify us above all else.The Case of Charles Dexter Ward is Lovecraft's longest work (at least that I've encountered) and there is so much in the meager 120 or so pages that it's amazing.
UPDATE: Segunda lectura: 07/08/2018-Nota: 5 estrellas.  Objetivamente no sé qué nota le pondría porque no soy una IA. En 2015 le puse 4 estrellas porque me leí todos los relatos de Lovecraft (casi) del tirón y me parecían que otros trabajos suyos más breves eran mejores o, en su defecto, más dignos de mención. Pero de manera aislada y alejada de sus otros escritos me parece El caso de C.D.W.  una novela notable e interesante. Me ha gustado mucho más que la primera vez porque he podido apreciar
Para no serlo a estas alturas...A muchos lectores les parece pobre la justificación que usa Lovecraft, es decir, el recurso de las sales.
Para mi, uno de los puntos fuertes del autor es cuando el protagonista de su relato – la mayoría de veces, es él mismo– no puede negar que siente una plena satisfacción por el descubrimiento aquello que está más allá de los límites de la razón pero a la vez se siente perdido, desolado, destrozado y al borde de la locura y en esta narración de esto, vemos muy poco.
Classic.
I remembered very little, aside from the broad plot-points, so you can imagine my consternation when, upon re-reading it this week, I discovered that I am merely one step away from following in the footsteps of young Charles; so many of the descriptions of him sounded like the man i have become and, as it happens, 3 years ago I began to dedicate myself to exactly the sort of studies young Charles pursued (albeit in a professional capacity).
Here lay the arcana, wondrous or dreadful as the case might be, for which all his years of travel and application had been preparing him."
Ε ναι ρε παιδί μου!!Τώρα μάλιστα, κατάλαβα γιατί ο Λάβκραφτ κατέχει τέτοια θέση στον τρόμο!!!Παρόλο που είναι προφανές απ'τη μέση σχεδόν τι έχει γινει και σε ορισμένα σημεία θα ήθελα πιο πολλές λεπτομέρειες και τρόμο (ο συγγραφέας είναι αρκετά φειδωλός,σα να θέλει απλώς να καταγράψει κάποια γεγονότα), το μοναδικό του μυθιστόρημα με "κέρδισε" και με αγχωσε!!υ.γ. Η έκδοση απ'τον Αίολο είναι χάλια (λανθασμένες ημερομηνίες, λείπουν εισαγωγικά όταν σταματάει κάποιος να μιλάει, ανάκληση λέξεων/φράσεων με διαφορετική αυτή τη φορά μετάφραση.....)! Με έβγαζε απ' το κλίμα! Επιλέξτε κάποια άλλη!
I'm rereading this based upon Stephen's review so if I do not appreciate it more, it will be entirely his fault :-)_______________________________________In The Case of Charles Dexter Ward HPL ventures a novel-length story about his Elder Gods and one man’s tragic fate when he delves into mysteries better left unexamined.
102-03)And this is a description of the relatively empty vaults found in 1928; nothing at all like these same vaults from 170 years earlier when the men who descended into those hellish catacombs emerged unable to speak about what they had seen and heard – the only account of the venture coming from the journals of a man who remained above ground.I’ve got the entire Ballantine collection of HPL’s stories sitting on my bookshelf but poor Charles Dexter has languished there while I favored its brothers such as The Lurking Fear or The Doom That Came to Sarnath.
A horror writer with high-literary roots, Lovecraft remains a unique and original artist; at his best, he combines the ethereal sensibilities of “decadent” fantasists like Lord Dunsany and Arthur Machen with the bleak gothic tales of Poe and Ambrose Bierce.
“The Case of Charles Dexter Ward” features a typical Lovecraftian hero, a young man in 1920s Providence, RI whose “antiquarian” obsessions lead to occult discoveries.
By “antiquarian,” Lovecraft means (without a trace of irony) that Ward is preoccupied with the postage stamp-sized world of pre-Revolutionary Providence, with interests as disturbingly esoteric as Colonial wood-working techniques.Ward begins to research an ancestor, Joseph Curwen, whose identity was mysteriously effaced from town records and learns that he was a notorious practitioner of black magic.
Es una novela corta muy bien contada en la que se van desvelando la trama a cuentagotas, destapando cada vez un poquito más. No te da todos los detalles del misterio y no se detiene en descripciones macabras, no es nada densa y no se hace pesada de leer. Pero por contra me ha resultado bastante previsible.3 estrellas, interesante.
Tafferugli a Providence Considerato uno dei must del mefistofelico autore, questo racconto lungo ha il pregio di un'ottima idea di fondo che si annacqua in dinamiche ripetitive e forzature varie, le quali minano un'atmosfera di conturbante alienazione.Frammento trash integrativo: il medico che brancola nel buio con certe testimonianze non si può proprio leggere; come anche Ward che fa di tutto nel suo studiolo - odori mefitici, sussurri nel buio, riti improbabili, fughe in piena notte - senza che terzi prendano dei seri provvedimenti (la madre che sviene non è un provvedimento, solo una normale reazione umana).
Μου έφερε στο μυαλό πολλές φορές το Πορτραίτο του Ντόριαν Γκρέυ, από το οποίο πιστεύω πως άντλησε ιδέες ο Lovecraft γι' αυτή την ιστορία και αν μπορούσα να βάλω μια ταμπέλα σε αυτό το βιβλίο, αυτή θα ήταν «μεταφυσικό ψυχολογικό thriller».
Υπήρχαν κάποιες περιγραφές που πραγματικά έκοβαν την ανάσα, ειδικά όσο πλησίαζε το τέλος.
Αν υπήρχε κάτι που με κούρασε ήταν ότι υπήρχαν περιπτώσεις που μια παράγραφος μπορούσε να αποτελεί πάνω από μία σελίδα και γενικά σε ορισμένα σημεία η γραφή, όπως πχ η παντελής έλλειψη διαλόγων (με εξαίρεση στις τελευταίες σελίδες) ήταν κάτι που δεν είχα ξανασυναντήσει.
Σίγουρα όμως είναι ένα βιβλίο που κατάφερε να εισχωρήσει στο μυαλό μου και να παίξει μαζί του.

Admittedly, a friend of mine and I were suppose to read—and of course finish—this last Halloween.
Ha, what a turn of events; now that I have finished this.
This was my first time reading anything by H.
P. Lovecraft even though I have quite plenty of his work on my to-read list, as well as physical copies waiting to be read.
I can frankly say that I have enjoyed this one very much, the ending most of all.
The descriptive and steady style of writing kept me thoroughly engaged in the story and I cannot wait to read more.
This would have been a great Halloween-read.
Slučaj Čarlsa Dekstera Vorda je roman za uživanje u suptilnom osećaju jeze. Nema ovde prekrivanja očiju, skakanja sa stolice/kreveta i bacanja knjige, niti povremenog lupanja srca od pročitane groze, ali itekako ima dve stotine strana konstantno fino naježene kože. Atmosfera koju Lavkraft plete svojim bogatim književnim umećem i vrsnim poznavanjem okultnog je alfa i omega romana i zaslužuje duboko poštovanje.
The climax of the story comes when the young man's imposter is placed in an asylum (because he acts like someone from 150 years ago) and the doctor examines the underground lair of the magician - finding horrible secrets there.About the first third of the book is taken up with recounting the life of the sorceror, Joseph Curwen, in the 17th and 18th centuries, up to his extirpation from Providence by an angry mob of local and sailors.
