https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373755.Absalom_Absalom_
I like to think that Faulkner, were he alive, would've broken an empty bourbon bottle over the head of JRR Tolkien, and spit some tobacco juice on JK Rowling for their candy-ass prose and their contributions to increasing the laziness of readers everywhere.
I further like to think that after he wrote, ".
The picture above was used on the first edition dust jacket published in 1936 by Random House. It is the image I had in my mind of Sutpen's Hundred the plantation built by Thomas Sutpen. The hundred stands for a 100 square miles, the geographic size of the plantation. 100 square miles of land is equivalent to 64,000 acres. In other words it is a BIG PLACE. The gist of all this is that Thomas Sutpen built himself an empire. These plantations were so large that it required an unbelievable amount
"Quentin....sitting in the buggy beside the implacable doll-sized old woman clutching her cotton umbrella, smelling the heat-distilled old woman=flesh, the heat-distilled camphor in the old fold-creases of the shawl, feeling exactly like an electric bulb blood and skin since the buggy disturbed not enough air to cool him with motion, created not enough motion within him to make his skin sweat."The families who have lived in this county in Mississippi for generations are also the same people who regarded this new comer, Thomas Sutpen, with bemusement.
Absalom, Absalom!--William Faulkner's Novel of the Death of the Old SouthConsidered by many Faulkner scholars to be his masterpiece, Absalom, Absalom! was read by goodreads group "On the Southern Literary Trail" in April, 2012.  And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son! Second Samuel, 18:33, King James VersionInterestingly enough
However, while Margaret Mitchell chose to romanticize that society, William Faulkner removed any element of fanciful romance from the story revolving around the rise and fall of Thomas Sutpen, a man with a design to found a patriarchal dynasty, but who lost everything in his attempt to do.Faulkner originally titled his novel, "Dark House," but as he wrote his complex story adopted the story of King David and his son Absalom as a more appropriate fit with the figure of Thomas Sutpen and his family.
What secrets do Thomas Sutpen's house still hold that Rosa Colfield demands that Quentin ride with her to that dark house before he leaves the South to become a student at Harvard?"Absalom, Absalom!" is Faulkner's pivotal novel of the death of the Old South.
622. Absalom, Absalom!, William Faulkner (1897 - 1962)Absalom, Absalom! is a novel by the American author William Faulkner, first published in 1936. Taking place before, during, and after the Civil War, it is a story about three families of the American South, with a focus on the life of Thomas Sutpen.ابشالوم، ابشالوم - ویلیام فاکنر (نیلوفر)ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه آوریل سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: ابشالوم، ابشالوم؛ اثر: ویلیم فاکنر؛ مترجم: صالح حسینی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1378، د
Taking place before, during, and after the Civil War, it is a story about three families of the American South, with a focus on the life of Thomas Sutpen.ابشالوم، ابشالوم - ویلیام فاکنر (نیلوفر)ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه آوریل سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: ابشالوم، ابشالوم؛ اثر: ویلیم فاکنر؛ مترجم: صالح حسینی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1378، در 414 ص، شابک: 9644480864؛ چاپ دوم 1382، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی سده 20 مکتاب از نظر موضوع و سرگذشت، به رمان دیگر فاکنر، با عنوان «خشم و هیاهو» بستگی پیدا میکند.
زیرا کوئنتین کامپسون، در این داستان، نقش بازجوی اصلی را بازی میکند، در حالیکه در رمان پیشین، او خودکشی میکند.
(620,000 soldiers died ), with different characters narrating the confusing story of Thomas Sutpen.
A dirt poor man from what will become West Virginia leaving his family at 14, traveling to find a better life walking mostly across southern states and arriving in the fictional sleepy hamlet of Jefferson, Mississippi in 1833 at the age of 25.
Born to the unhappy couple are Henry and younger sister by two years Judith, crimes are committed by this family.
Henry attends the new University of Mississippi at Oxford, later to be called ironically Ole Miss and meets Charles Bon, a few years older from New Orleans, becomes his best friend, nonetheless he is connected somehow to him.
Can each one of these (co)exist on their own?There are mainly four people - Rosa Coldfield, father and son Jason and Quentin Compson and Shreve McCannon, the latter’s roommate - in this quest of trying to understand and ultimately make sense of what they’ve heard about the events that took place over the course of a century, as the fates of the Sutpen, Coldfield and Bon families are encapsulated from the 1800’s until the early 1900’s.Each one of these four voices - which at some point are all narrators of the story - have some knowledge of what happened in certain periods of time.
Other body parts, hugely disproportionate, seem to bulge and dangle everywhere.
I can see all the body parts.
I'm told by those in the nose know that it's much better on a second reading.
If I went back to the Picasso, maybe all those skewed arms and legs and, well, you know, other things would shift around and suddenly look like a regular human being.
And if I go back to the Faulkner, maybe all those characters, fragments, flashbacks, rehashings, and long drawn out italicized monologues will shift around and suddenly make sense like a regular novel.I don't know, though, whether I'll ever go back.
I would marry this book if our proud nation didn't define marriage as being only between a man and a woman.
- gallop, although I did find it slightly irritating that every single narrator (there are at least four) has exactly the same long sentences and cadence, which does seem to strain credulity, yet once you get sucked into the writing, it's hard to extricate yourself.)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Τόσο ακαθόριστο, πολύπλοκο και πυκνό στο πέρασμα του που στην αρχή δημιουργεί δέος και μετά σε τρομάζει.
Είναι μια καθαρά αρχαιοελληνική τραγωδία τοποθετημένη στην καρδιά του Αμερικανικού νότου με το πέρασμα του εμφυλίου.
Δεν τους άφησα απο απροσεξία ίσως,να ακουμπήσουν την καρδιά μου.
Αντιλήφθηκα μια εναρμόνιση στοιχείων που παραπέμπουν στην ένωση λογικής και συναισθήματος.
Ένιωσα την συνύπαρξη-μέσα σε ψυχές που καθόριζαν τη δημιουργία- πόνου,πάθους,πολιτισμού και πρωτόγονης φύσης.
Οι πράξεις τους απόλυτα οριακές ανάμεσα στην ονειροπόληση και την πραγματικότητα, ειναι εξαντλητικές,φοβερές και επικίνδυνες.
Στην αρετή και την ευτέλεια.
Ίσως και να οδηγούνται στην πύρινη κάθαρση οικειοθελώς.
It's as if his layering and re-layering and re-re-layering and his endlessly unfolding and stacking metaphors are the ONLY way for Quentin, and for us, the readers, to understand the South, and to understand Quentin's desperate self-loathing and destructiveness, and Caddy, and Henry and Bon and Judith and etc...Then elements of the story that connect with the lineage of Agamemnon are also fascinating and incredible, and I don't really understand most of them, so I recommend coming in better prepared then I was.I would only recommend this to someone who has read at least 3 other faulkners - I did As I lay Dying, Sound and the Fury Unvanquished then this one.
Second time around though, no stunning surprises to keep the pages turning; the language of racism begins to feel gratuitous, painful (yeah, yeah, I know, it was reflective of the times and attitudes of Civil War-era South, blah, blah, blah).
Apparently, Faulkner was also not a huge fan of people—hovering, talking, wanting something—I can relate.If you’re approaching AA for the first time, have fun with it, read it as quickly as you can.
Best not to give away any more, other than to say the novel details the sordid rise and fall of the bizarre and mad Sutpen family and, allegorically, the South, and also that the title refers to King David's beloved third son Absalom who rebelled against the Kingdom of Israel and was killed by David's commander Joab."...surely there is something in madness, even the demoniac, which Satan flees, aghast at his own handiwork, and which God looks on in pity..." Absalom, Absalom!
“That is the substance of remembering—sense, sight, smell: the muscles with which we see and hear and feel not mind, not thought: there is no such thing as memory: the brain recalls just what the muscles grope for: no more, no less; and its resultant sum is usually incorrect and false and worthy only of the name of dream.” ― William Faulkner, Absalom, Absalom!
It captures, without over-doing it, issues of race, class, the American Dream, the South, family, memory, etc., all packed inside a nearly perfect novel that slowly unwinds and unwraps through multiple, unreliable narrators.
I will need to come back to this review.
I may also need to come back to this novel.
i feel like i'm supposed to give this a higher rating, and maybe the next time i read it i will.
the core story, a family tragedy designed to epitomize the degradation and fall of the american south, is examined from multiple angles, retold from multiple perspectives as the novel unfolds, but it's cryptic and complicated in a way that shut me out ...
i guess the problem is that i had a hard time seeing the forest for the trees.
i stuck with it for the sentences and gleaned a sense of the story.
Sutpen opposes the marriage, and a dispute with Henry over the issue leads to Henry running away for several years.
It's not even past" (from “Requiem for a Nun”)--“The sins of the fathers are visited upon the children” (from Exodus)--Everything is connected--The rich are not really any better off than the poor--A person’s life can be like a myth, and the memories of those who intersect such a life can diverge and yet be as true or real as the events in that life--There is evil without God and the devil--Free will may involve accepting fate, but you likely will have trouble recognizing it --The burden of slavery and aristocracy of the South is a hard row to hoeI had enough of a challenge over persuading myself I should read this book to press it on other readers.
Attraverso le vicende di Tomas Sutpen, su cui incombe un senso di tragica fatalità, e della sua famiglia, dei figli Henry e Judith, dell’enigmatico Charles Bon, che solo nel finale si scoprirà come uno dei personaggi più tragici, quello che mi ha ricordato il Joe Christmas di Luce d’agosto, nel cui sangue i diversi geni che lo compongono trasportano anche una ridda di emozioni contrastanti, viviamo le passioni palpitanti e violente di personaggi che si stagliano indimenticabili, quali i protagonisti della tragedia greca, destinati alla sconfitta, perché il sangue che scorre nelle vene della stirpe dei Sutpen è un sangue guasto, ormai putrefatto, dissoltosi così come si è dissolto il vecchio mondo, quello del Sud degli Stati Uniti, dopo la tragica guerra di secessione.Un libro sterminato, non catalogabile, di cui si può egualmente dire “bellissimo” come “ma chi me l’ha fatto fare”; senza dubbio un’opera d’arte grandiosa.
Ο Κουέντιν και ο συμφοιτητής του Σρηβ προσπαθούν να συμπληρώσουν το ημιτελές παζλ των διαφόρων αφηγητών και ο συγγραφέας με μια ευφυέστατη αφηγηματική σύλληψη μας βάζει μέσα στην ίδια την ιστορία και μας φέρνει όσο πιο κοντά γίνεται στον καταραμένο Σάπτεν… Κατά τα άλλα ο Φώκνερ φαίνεται πως έχει επηρεαστεί βαθύτατα από το αρχαίο δράμα, παρόλο που ο τίτλος του παραπέμπει σε βιβλικά πρόσωπα και μυθοπλασίες.
.Αν και η όλη ιστορία εκτυλίσσεται την εποχή του εμφυλίου πολέμου της Αμερικής, ο Φώκνερ δεν φαίνεται να εστιάζει στον ίδιο τον πόλεμο αλλά στις συνθήκες που επικρατούσαν στις ΗΠΑ πριν, κατά την διάρκεια και μετά το τέλος αυτού.
The most difficult novel by Faulkner that I've read. Loved it anyway. Or maybe loved it because of that? Whatever. I'll be reading it again sometime, should be interesting to how I react to it half a century or so after the first read.
With stark and horrible inevitability, it creates its legacy in the same image as the mud from which it came, black, masked, impenetrable, yet reaching into a horror-stricken and helpless community to entwine a bride like a leviathan of the Mississippi marsh, drawing her back into its antebellum lair, she not wholly unwillingly.
Mystery and strength entice no matter how shadowy and undignified, and sometimes even more so because of the shadow.This story, these dark images are delivered in the beautiful southern dialect with a power and mastery few possess, and that Faulkner possessed in spades.
It is a small-scale story of the old South versus the new and those caught in the middle.
The book IS constructed like an onion, with Faulkner skillfully pulling apart layer by layer (-- all the passages about Quentin and Shreeve around the table are mere narrative interludes, intended merely to allow the reader to regather himself before beginning the assault on the next section, and should be read as such --) with its remarkable turnaround, a peripeteia of character more than of plot!, and its chilling and profound conclusion.
Ho quarantatré anni e questo è il miglior libro che abbia mai lettovorranno venirmi, forse, le parole per esprimere tanto godimento alla lettura e stupore per tanto godimento... 1936, W.F., Mississippi 1897-1962, Nobel 1949
I say this based entirely on my own free will, I think this could be the best book ever.
Η άνοδος και η παρακμή ενός άντρα, του δαιμονικού Τόμας Σάτπεν που ήθελε έναν γιο κι απέκτησε πάρα πολλούς, τόσους που τον κατέστρεψαν.
Ο μύθος των Ατρειδών στην αμερικάνικη εκδοχή του.Το βιβλίο αν και έχει αρκετή δυσκολία στην ανάγνωση,σε σημείο να χρειαστεί να ξαναδιαβάσεις ορισμένα κεφάλαια για να εμπεδώσεις τα γραφόμενα, είναι απολαυστικό και σε καλεί να διαβάσεις τη συνέχεια.
Η διήγηση της ιστορίας γίνεται από πολλά πρόσωπα σαν μαρτυρίες σε κάποια δίκη, που ο κάθε μάρτυρας δίνει τη δική του οπτική γωνία επί του θέματος.Θέλει υπομονή και επιμονή να διαβαστεί, αλλά σίγουρα αξίζει το κόπο και με το παραπάνω.Υ.Γ.
Η συνανάγνωση του συγκεκριμένου βιβλίου με τα μέλη της λέσχης του βιβλίου ήταν απολαυστική!
As such we should probably not be surprised to find that the characters all speak in the same voice, write letters in the same voice, a voice which is self-evidently that of the author (the ornate and complex sentences are wonderful things, of course) – the issue here is that, if the text is designed to demonstrate the impossibility of one “true” historical representation, of the fact that there are must be stories (always plural never singular), of the desire to make the past from our perspective, one cannot discount the importance of language and voice in creating such a perspective – by forcing Rosa, Quentin etc to speak in his voice, he fails, I would argue, to allow the full range, the full, dangerous complexity of these different viewpoints to emerge.
Το κείμενο του Faulkner είναι επιεικώς απαιτητικό, επιβάλλει την πνευματική συμμετοχή του αναγνώστη κι αποτελεί ερμηνευτική άσκηση.Με μακροσκελείς προτάσεις, και χωρίς να διασπάται στο ελάχιστο η συνοχή των όσων λέει ο εκάστοτε χαρακτήρας, ξετυλίγονται τα γεγονότα των παρελθόντων ετών, μέσα από τις εγκιβωτισμένες αναμνήσεις της Rosa αλλά και του παππού του πρωταγωνιστή Quentin Compson, μέσα από γράμματα και μέσω υποθέσεων από πλευράς του Quentin και του φίλου του Shreve.
Το μυθολογικό υπόβαθρο είναι διαρκώς παρόν, με αναφορές στην Κασσάνδρα, την Κλυταιμνήστρα και τον Αγαμέμνονα, τη Θίσβη και τον Πύραμο, αλλά και στην σπορά από δόντια δράκου, που αποτελεί μέρος του μύθου του Κάδμου και της ίδρυσης της Θήβας.
Herein lies the mystery at the heart of the work - how and why Sutpen's past returned to haunt and ultimately destroy him.
Quentin then tells the story to his Canadian room mate at Harvard, Shreve, who adds his own speculations about Sutpen to the narrative.
The effect of all of this uncertainty is unsettling and Sutpen's true story remains elusive, which is, I assume, part of the point.
I'm an outsider to that history - as is Shreve in the novel - and I don't quite know how to react to it.
This is an extraordinary novel and I'm in awe of Faulkner's writing.
--Absalom, Absalom!ChronologyGenealogy
"Tell about the South. What's it like there. What do they do there. Why do they live there. Why do they live at all.”  Our social systems (in particular capitalism) are such that some qualities such as bravery, courage, hard work, physical strength, cunning, intelligence etc are rewarded while others the softer ones like compassion, kindness, honesty etc not only remain unrewarded but also come with a price for one of who possess them. In fact, only incentives, besides a clear conscience (whic
And, no offence, but if people in South spoke in sentences as long as they did in this book, they deserved to lose the war.There are repitations too - like in The Sound and The Fury, there is an example of two brothers in love for their sister.Telling of story by different narrators is though not without merit.
One thing it shows how true stories can never be told given bias of narrators ( a perfect theme for someone like Faulkner to write about) and, also how a listener modifies story for his/her own benifit in retellings but, most importantly, it shows how stories in turn affect their listeners.
He could have been her brother, and he could have been her family, he could have seen what you should know about someone you love and who loves you.Quentin Compson speaks back over refrigerated years to his nineteen year old university roommate.
They have a power and not stopping to think the words out loud I still thought "I know exactly what he's talking about" when Quentin sees those grave stones as if he is there.
Shreve and Quentin speak of demonizing and I wanted to talk to Rosa about her unchildhood.
