https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113441.The_Day_of_the_Locust
My vote for the Great American Novel - The Day of the Locust by Nathaniel West.
West's short novel speaks to what every single American has to deal with - the falsehood of Hollywood, the ultimate con, the complete fake, the billion dollar illusion, shoved in everybody's face, like it or not.As Nathaniel West captured so brilliantly, once anything or anyone is in Hollywood, there is no escape from being converted into artificiality - even a wooden chest of drawers is painted to look like unfinished wood.Adults beating the spontaneity out of children so their kid can be the next Shirley Temple.
How American.How Nathaniel West captured it all perfectly in this Great American Novel: The Day of the Locust.I love this photo capturing how the five-pointed stars in the Hollywood sidewalk mirror the five-pointed stars in the American flag.
Where else could the magic of the movies be conjured?All one has to do is to move to California to start evolving into a glamorous and successful person, right?
Well, maybe that works for some, but for most of those people washing up on the shores of California it turns out that the same reflection shows up in the mirrors in the Golden State as it did in Nebraska, Michigan, and Georgia.
Tod Hackett lands a job at the studios painting and designing scenery for movies.
People in New York are sometimes freaked out by LA but for sort of different reasons -- or in a different way, in any case -- and it was only when I'd tell old Bay Area friends I was moving that their visceral horror drove home the insanity of what I had planned."Why would you ever move there????!" they would cry.
I left work and stopped by my friend's bar in Tribeca to shoot the shit a little on the way to my gym, then left him with a little spring in my step, thinking well, this New York City livin' ain't really so bad!
All their lives they had slaved at some kind of dull, heavy labor, behind desks and counters, in the fields and at tedious machines of all sorts, saving their pennies and dreaming of the leisure that would be theirs when they had enough."But these people can't seem to find themselves and it irritates them: They don't know what to do with their time.
Their boredom becomes more and more terrible.
They have slaved and saved for nothing."This is the America of Donald Trump: a crusading mob, "a great united front of screwballs and screw-boxes out to purify the land."
Nathaniel West's Hollywood is not the glamorous "home of the stars" but a seedy world of little people, some hopeful, some desparing, all twisted by their by their own desires—from the ironically romantic artist narrator to a macho movie cowboy, a middle-aged innocent from America's heartland, and the hard-as-nails call girl would-be-star whom they all lust after.
Sammy's is a story of hustle and flow, make and do and create...Tod never does one damned thing in this book except chase Faye and wander around.
This is set in Depression-era Hollywood!
And, and, he and Homer are in love with the same dame, who is what it appears that many an aspiring actress in Hollywood becomes: a prostitute.
And Todd has creepy rape fantasies which he associates with love-feelings because he doesn't know how to deal with Homer being a proxy cuckold failure who mirrors his own self-doubts and shattering failures at dry-humping the American Dream.
And Homer truly loves the gal, and Todd truly wants to win her like a balloon at the fair, even if he has to steal her like candy from an orphan with TB and a peg leg.
If I were you I’d keep them.Director: I suppose if I don’t you’ll have to.Stage manager: What’s your name?Chorus girl : Diane Lorrimer, 333 Park Avenue.Fellow chorine in stage whisper: And is her homework tough!The whole movie rests on the assumed notion that the real currency of the world of showbiz is not money, it’s sexual favours.
Quite shocking it is, too, for the modern reader – the leading lady in this teensy acidulous bedlam of a novel is all of 17 years old and a wannabe movie actress and like almost everyone else in this book is stony broke and so just naturally contemplates joining a call girl service, and does so too.
The Day of the Locust is a very good book about a very bad taste…“She posed, quivering and balanced, on the doorstep and looked down at the two men in the patio.
She was smiling, a subtle half-smile uncontaminated by thought.
She looked just born, everything moist and fresh, volatile and perfumed.”And bad taste, aggravated with mass stupidity, becomes monstrous taste…“Their boredom becomes more and more terrible.
They realize that they’ve been tricked and burn with resentment.
Every day of their lives they read the newspapers and went to the movies.
Both fed them on lynchings, murder, sex crimes, explosions, wrecks, love nests, fires, miracles, revolutions, war.

West has chosen Hollywood and its amalgamation of wannabe movie stars, hangers-on, generic cowboys, agents and prostitutes as the scenario for his 1939 novel.
It was genuinely amazing how the novel's combination of despaired escapism and hollow contemporariness continues to spellbind nearly eight decades after it was originally published.The poetic and elucidatory language is routinely inventive and the predominately absurd characters are all brilliantly captured and described.
A grim little tale of a pack of losers leading sad and desperate lives in L.A. in the 1930's.
Scott Fitzgerald and was killed in a car accident while rushing to F.
Scott's funeral.
Unfortunately, what it's giving is depression.The worst thing about the book isn't even the author's fault.
Having a character named Homer Simpson makes it hard to read something as serious fiction, especially a book like this.
Every time I saw the name, I started grinning, even as as the story is describing his sad and shabby little life.
I kept a watchful eye open for anything that hinted at a quality on par with Papa or Scott, but once the book started to take shape, I found myself trying, instead, to find a comparison that could accurately describe how it felt to be reading The Day of the Locust.Imagine a clean and sober Jack Kerouac writing a novel about insane circus freaks who've escaped a mental institution, while attempting to retell The Sun Also Rises with cock fights instead of bull fights (and all the hamfistedness of the resulting metaphors), and channelling and morphing Fitzgerald's love of party-life decadence into party-life decrepitude, with a whole lot of abuse, a little bit of OCD and never-ending soap-box rants, and you've got a good picture of how The Day of the Locust feels to read.It's not bad, but it's not good either, and I bet it would make a much better film than a novel.
This is where the world endsThis is where the world endsThis is where the world endsIn a poisoned meringue of L.A.'s winter.This book has amazing characters, incredible scenes, and breaks my heart with every page. It set the scene for every David Lynch movie grotesque and the soundtrack for every Pixies song your head can bend itself around. Also, the best cock fight scene in all of literature.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06p56zjDescription: Tod is a young scene designer in 1930s Hollywood trying to earn an honest buck and still maintain his artistic integrity. He falls in love with Faye, an aspiring actress and gets sucked into the toxic periphery of Hollywood. A caustic satire on the flipside of the 1930s dream factory.
Not least because everything written by Nathanael West in this novel could quite easily be written about the 21st century and especially that awful area of the world known as Hollywood.The sense of foreboding or dread that you feel from the start of the novel may not be on a similar plane to The Talented Mr. Ripley for example but it's there all the same.
It is a novel about the effect of Hollywood and fame on the everyday reality of normal working class people.
Depressing, crushing realization that the American dream isn't all it's cracked up to be, and that Hollywood glitz and glamour is just going to screw you up sooner or later.This is the Golden Age of Hollywood, full of beautiful actresses, movies, hopes and passion.
Tod Hackett gets caught up in this world when he finds himself in an LA studio, working as a set designer.
As well as Tod, there's a whole bunch of unfortunate characters pulled into this spotlighted charade, most notably - Faye (a wannabe actress), and Homer Simpson (a sexually clueless Iowan with uncontrollable hands).Perfect for those who like F.
Scott Fitzgerald, but want something even more tragic and depressing than Gatsby.
. ." It's like a mash-up between Bukowski and Fitzgerald and I bet a new reader might have to check the publication date to make sure that the book isn't a retro-version of 2016, a year where (apparently) audiences everywhere only want the illusion and not the truth.
The book's protagonist, Tod Hackett is the lens through which the reader encounters the show and his dry wit made me laugh (albeit bitterly).
This kind of writing is like an inside joke, isn't it?
A Hollywood archetype.Most of the book is like this and I'm sure not everyone would get pleasure out of reading it.
It doesn't mean they have to be enjoyable or even coherent.As I think about the premise of The Day of the Locust, I feel strongly that I should have liked it.
The novel tells the story of the sycophants surrounding a drop-dead gorgeous 17 year old girl named Faye.
Or how about Tod's attitude toward Faye: "Nothing less than rape would do.
Tod has rape fantasies about Faye often, and this seems completely reasonable to him.
After Faye starts working as a call girl, Tod confronts her and yells at her about it (but also wants to rape her???).
I had a hard time deciding to finish the book after the first mention of Tod Hackett's thoughts about the courage to rape a teenager but I forget.
You're not supposed to like the characters in this story.
I can't get behind Tod because I wonder why I am supposed to care about his character.
And "The Burning of Los Angeles," a picture he was soon the paint, definitely proved he had talent.Yet I decided to finish the story because I started to think, what if the narrator dislikes Tod as much as me?
Çünkü, karakterler, fettan Faye, Steinbeck'in Fareler ve İnsanlar'ından Lennie karakterinin türdeşi Homer, Harry, Miguel, ve tabii ki Tod gerçek ve güçlü karakterler olarak çizilse bile, her ne kadar romanın merkezi karakterlerden ziyade Holywood sanrısının sahteliği olsa da, şahsen romanın ciddi olarak güçlü bir merkezden yoksun olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Çünkü bazen Holywood'da iş arayan, ün arayan karakterlerin çaresizliği, boş hayalleri merkeze gelirken, bazen de cinselliğin, şiddetin, bazen de tüm bunlardan azade insanın kimsesizliğini, kitlelerin "vahşiliğini" merkeze alıyormuş gibi geldi bana.
Yani kitap bazen Homer'in hikayesi iken, bir bakıyorsun Faye'in, sonra bir bakıyorsun Tod'un, sonra bir bakıyorsun Holywood'un hikayesiymiş.
Nešto je trulo u tvornici snova, mašineriji koja guta ljude i tjera ih da izgube sebe.Sjaj Hollywooda lažan je, a kroz taj sjaj provlače se različite nakaze kao stvorene za vječnu igru, stvorene da izgube sve.
Furthermore, I found that lately I tend to like happier books, less hermetic, accesible, perhaps even lighter (?) In other words, at least form my perspective, this book can't be about a sick America...or there is a contradiction in my sistem..There's more material I disagree with: "West's characters are Hollywood stereotypes, what Light calls "grotesques".[9] The novel's protagonist, Tod Hackett (whose first name likely derives from the German word for death and whose last name refers to a common epithet for Hollywood screenwriters and artists, who were pejoratively called "hacks"), is a set painter who aspires to artistic greatness.
Nathaniel West's examination of the vain, desperate, self-deluded hangers-on at the fringes of Hollywood is perhaps more pertinent today than it was seventy years ago if for no other reason than that these pathetic archetypes seem to be even more among us today, no longer mere aberrations, as they were in West's day.
It's no coincidence that she casually turns to prostitution when she needs a few extra bucks to pay for her father's flamboyant funeral.With a weird ending that borders on the surreal, The Day of the Locust falls short of being a five star classic, but given West's startling descriptive acuity and searing portraits of American archetypes that live with us still, The Day of the Locust does what a great American novel should do, it holds a mirror up to ourselves and makes us examine the flaws under the make-up.
Far different than anything I could imagine, but brilliant nonetheless. Rather than a 'hollywood story', we get Hollywood as Babylon. It's apocalyptic, surreal, lurching from one grotesque scene to another; every thought of sex tainted by rape, every cheap thrill one breath away from violence. Strangely I'm reminded a little of JG Ballard's books of urban decay, like Concrete Island and High Rise. Dark, cynical, bitter, and horrifying, the book gives us a heavy caricature of this city I live in, but it rings true.
If Sunset Boulevard had a bastard child with Tom Waits' Blue Valentine and it went to Hollywood failed and died alone in a seedy hotel room from falling asleep while smoking a cigarette...it would be this book.
When he used it on his friends, they played with him like one does with a growling puppy, staving off his mad rushes, and then baiting him to rush again." Then there's Homer Simpson, a bookkeeper who came to California from the mid-west on the advice of his physician, after suffering a bout of pneumonia.
Wave after wave reared its ton on ton of solid water and crashed down only to have her spin gaily away."Bottom line: West has given us a window into the fascinating world which was 1930's Hollywood.
As I was a fan of The Great Gatsby – having read it first – it comes as no surprise to me that I, too, enjoyed The Day of the Locust for its similarities to Fitzgerald's magnum opus.
It's highly unfortunate that Nathanael West died at such an early age before he could gift this world with more great works such as The Day of the Locust.
This almost reminded me of Shirley Jackson - not in its tone or theme, but in its oddness. Like, here's this West guy just off doing his weird thing and I don't even know whether it's funny or tragic. It might be because I just finished Sun Also Rises, but the whole book seemed sortof like a parody of that. Parody might not be the right word. A small-scale version? A diorama? With cockfighting instead of bullfighting. Faye Greener is like a smaller, more tawdry Brett.
"Only those who still have hope can benefit from tears. When they finish, they feel better. But to those without hope, whose anguish is basic and permanent, no good comes from crying. Nothing changes for them. They usually know this, but still can’t help crying." West has incredible writing that perfectly describes hopelessness and depression. It's sad but real. The short chapters and sentence structures made it easier to read than I thought.
So not only am I completely confused as to Tod's obsession with Faye but also why he spends so much time hanging out with these reprehensible characters in the novel - possibly the biggest losers you've ever read about.Yes, I understand that this is supposed to be a portrait of those kinds of fringe-of-Hollywood low-life types but these people are the absolute bottom of the barrel.
Do people this weird actually exist?And of course we come to the novel's end-scene.
Also, I will confess, I've seen the movie, or at least a part of the movie and the movie's end-scene seems to indicate Homer being torn limb from limb by the insane mob.
