https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59871.To_Love_Again
A must-read for anyone who's ever been in love!
Definitivno voljeti nanovo! Bez ljubavi se ne moze!
her and her 5 year old son get threats for several months after her husbands death.
Bernardo convinces her to take her son to the states for awhile until the kidnappers are caught.
while in the states she tries to run her fashion business by checking in daily over the phone.
Bernardo tries to convince her to sell the business but she wont have no part of that.
Isabelle has to decide if she wants to make changes in her life that will help her and her son move forward or if she wants to stay in the past with her husbands memories.
It's really hard to be Isabella. In her life which sound so perfect turn directly after Amadeo gone. The story write so nice but, I don't like the ending part. It sound like not finished, or force to finish.
I read this many years ago (early 80's), so I could not give an accurate review. One of Danielle Steel's earlier books when all of her ideas were new & fresh.
Sad story but touching, that is love
Thanks to Mas Ade yang udah ngebeli-in buku ini. "Tiada yang abadi. Baik hal-hal yang baik, maupun hal-hal yang buruk" Waktu terus berjalan membawa perubahan demi perubahan di dalam kehidupan. Apa yang kemudian membekas di hati kita adalah bagaimana cara kita menyikapi setiap peristiwa tersebut. Hidup yang tampak sempurna dalam sekejap dapat berubah bagaikan di neraka. Namun..., tak ada badai yang tak reda, tak ada penderitaan yang tidak berakhir.Isabella dan Amadeo, pasangan suami istri pemilik
Hidup yang tampak sempurna dalam sekejap dapat berubah bagaikan di neraka.
Namun..., tak ada badai yang tak reda, tak ada penderitaan yang tidak berakhir.Isabella dan Amadeo, pasangan suami istri pemilik House of San Greogorio, sebuah rumah mode terkenal di Roma.
Kehidupan mereka tampak sempurna.
Sayang..., kebahagiaan mereka harus berakhir saat Amadeo hilang diculik dan akhirnya tewas dibunuh.Isabella memasuki tahap paling sulit dalam kehidupannya.
Dalam ketakutannya, Ia kemudian membawa anak mereka, Alessandro bersembunyi di New York.
Tapi kemampuan Steel dalam membangun dan menghidupkan cerita membuat buku ini cukuplayak untuk mendapat 3 bintang.
Al haber leído un libro de esta autora que me encantó, tal vez esperaba que me gustara y me emocionara del mismo modo. No obstante, no fue eso lo que sucedió, la historia me pareció vacía y, aunque pasaban muchas cosas, no me llegaban a afectar mucho.
One thing what I see is, whatever, a woman can be brilliant, business magnate, international celebrity, commanding & passionate etc., She would always need a man for support. And funny is it can be anyone a business rival, an employee or family members!
an ok read
good old 80's glamour - what else do you expect from Danielle.
Written with the poise and culture that Steel is known for , To Love Again is an unforgettable journey of a woman who had it all: wealth, fame, beauty, an adoring husband and a business that made them the royalty of Rome.
Notoriety makes you noticable.
And when the wrong person or persons notice you, it can all fall apart.
What can a woman do who is used to servants, nannies, and other amenities she can now no longer trust.
and Can she risk it all To Love Again?
Copyrighted 1980.I read this in the early 90s and this book has remained in my mind even now. The kidnapping was awful, and what happened after was even worse for Isabella and her son.I confessed upon rereading, the kidnapping bits and trial hit me even harder than I remembered. I ugly cried. Poor Isabella!Isabella was kind of stubborn and rash when she found out about Corbett and the business. If she can forgive Natasha why not Corbett?
Joyce, Village patron, June 2017, 3 stars:Loved the theme of the book but was disappointed that she felt she needed to take the Lord's name in vain throughout the book. It was inappropriate and took away from the story line.
It has been a long time since I have read a book by DS and I have make many attempts to read this book. Well, I would say no regrets. I enjoyed reading it. It's a love story with some excitement now and then. Easy to read book. I finished it in 4 days.
The typical Danielle Steel- a blissful life, a tragedy strikes and a happy ending. But in between such beautiful glimpses into the world of fashion, perfect description of style, which makes each book a different web of emotions. Perfect book to unwind on a holiday
Great readAn older book which I had not read but still found most enjoyable I can't wait to read another of hers
Great read As usual a great story, could not put it down love it , would read again,but not it , happy for
Compelling readingDanielle Steel never fails to enhance you, again I couldn't put the book down until I'd come to the end
Liked it!
Isabella dan anaknya, Alessandro terpaksa hidup dalam keadaan terkurung semenjak kematian suaminya, Amadeo mati dibunuh oleh penculik-penculik yang tidak diketahui identitinya.
Atas cadangan rakan karibnya Bernardo, Isabella dan Alessandro pun menetap bersama Natasha di New York sehingga keadaan kembali reda.Walaupun jauh, Isabella masih lagi mengendalikan perniagaan House of San Gregorio dengan bantuan Bernardo di Rome.
Kata putus telah diambil dengan membawa perniagaannya ke New York dan Bernardo telah memutuskan untuk tidak mengikut serta, malah dia telah pun mendapat pekerjaan yang baru di Rome.
Malah aku dapat juga menyelami bagaimana perasaan Isabella yang terpaksa menjalani hidup dalam terkurung ekoran dari trauma kematian suaminya.
This is the very first Novel I ever read and I fell in love with Town, Village, State and Country that Danielle Steel has ever written about.
I when back and read everything she wrote before *To Love Again* and have read everything she has written since she has a winning formula that works for her.
She has a wonderful family whom she loves guards closely.
She has worked tirelessly for years on the streets taking care of the homeless and down and outs and I applaud her as Artist but most of all as a humanitarian with a great heart and great love...
Bought it a long time ago. Read it a long time ago. THEN I liked it. Must have, since I've been carrying it around ever since. A proper review I won't write here, since it is too long ago. But I don't think anyone will mind, with this book.It'll go on a journey next week: I plan on releasing it on my way to or at the Terschelling meeting.
I learned how difficult it was for Isabella who was so certain everything was so perfect in her life and how everthying turned in diffrent directio when Amateo was kidnapped and then killed. She was a strong woman who went trough rough times and then she became more powerful than before she was just Amateo's wife.
sorry but the same problem with the unaccountability of one of the main characters isabella loses her husband after he is kidnapped and then killed. her friend and manager, bernardo, recommended to call the police which resulted in her husband's death could anyone continue to work with let alone still consider that person a friend? i know i could not bev
Una novela buena, a secas, pero buena.Lo que le quitó puntos , es que hubo momentos en los que perdía el interés por la historia, creo que no captó al 100 mi atención.Volver a amar, como lo dice el título... muchas veces es doloroso pero hay que seguir adelante.
A story that draws you in.This book begins with a painful incident, you want to put it down. But somehow the characters and what happens draw you in. A good story that will touch your emotions and lead you on a wild ride.
The loss of a loved one and the ability to recover from it; is best described in the form of Isabella. Feelings of a women, her ambitions and desires; strikes a perfect balance in the story. Simple writing style; timely expression of emotions in the plot makes it worth reading.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13880349
dibaca spy fallin in love again jaman kuliah, tp gak sukses! :D
