https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141155.Ramayana
As part of reading different versions of Ramayana, I have read this book. This is the best one I have come across till date. The author presents the story devoid of his opinion or biases which is something I liked.I also liked the way he draws parallels between Valmiki Ramayana and Kamban Ramayana.Such a relief to read this after reading Devdutt Patnaik's version ('Sita' one of the worst books I have read)
The reason I'm giving this five stars is because the author provides a detailed glossary of anglicized sanskrit words, as well as a guide to pronouncing sanskrit vowels.
While he chooses not to include a translation of what he calls "the legend" of Sita's betrayal, he still provides an extremely detailed translation of Valmiki's text as it is, including some translation from the poet Kamban's version of the Ramayana (who translated it into Tamil).
But if you're looking for a simple yet beautiful translation with context, this is the version you want.
I read this for my Bahasa Indonesia school task and I actually enjoyed it!
Rama is an amazing character and a great role model for literally everyone in this entire world.I've never read anything about Hindu Mythology, and this book made me so interested on finding out more about Hindu Mythology.
The relationships in this book was amazing.
Rama, Lesmana, Hanoman & Sugriwa are literally BRO GOALS.First few chapters made me a little bit confuse, maybe because I wasn't used to the language and mythology.
But then I've given a few more chapters and I was already so invested to it.
Even till today, the story of Ramayana is recited and narrated worldwide.
C. Rajagopalachari's book is a concise version but he has presented the story beautifully.
Here's a really quick summary of Ramayana."Lord Rama went to the forest in order to fulfill the promise his father had given to one of his wives (Kaikeyi).
In the forest Seeta was attracted by the golden deer and Rama went after it.
Lord Rama crossed the ocean and entered the city of Lanka.
He then destroyed the city of Lanka, killed Raavana and set Seeta free."The "supposed" evidences, that Ramayana was real, hooked me.
A must read for those who want to get their facts right about the mythological (Or might I say historical) story.Rajaji's thoughts and opinions and the slight variations in the versions by Kamban and Valmeeki are gently woven into the storytelling, making it a very enjoyable and informative read.Kids would find this very enlightening and enjoyable as this prose is generally devoid of philosophical opinions which are usually found in such books and may serve as a detractor for young minds.Ramayan is a must read!
One of the best and easy to read translations of Ramayana to English written in beautiful poetic prose.
Excellent book! An authority on Ramayana! Superb language and very concise. In my opinion, a must read.
The main purpose of an avatar is to est the Dharma of Humans What I wasnt satisfied with the book- the discontinuity of certain Characters' appearances in story (probably this is solved in Original Valmiki Ramayana) like Kaikeyi's reaction to the whole event after Bharata is made King & after Rama has gone to Dandaka Forest - how did she react to her husband's death & exile of one of her son & her own son criticizing & disliking her.
Both are correct in their own stances but, the author Rajaji treats the Dharma of Vibhishana to be the better choice in such a situations and (rightly) absolves Vibhishana of being called a traitor to the Rakhshasa family.Overall, this book is a great read.
For people who are well versed with the story of Ramayana, there is nothing new as far as the content is concerned, but the treatment of the epic by Rajaji, who himself was one of the most intellectually distinguished personalities of his time; is commendable.I will rate this book as five.
A true rendition of the Valmiki Ramayanam. The language is simple and fun to read. Rajaji's way of comparing Valmiki's work with other versions of Ramayana and citing appropriate material from other sources shows his wide-ranging knowledge. Too many lessons to learn from this epic. This has given me a chance to pick sections from this story that I will ever cite for a lifetime, to myself and to others.
I read this book a long time ago but really enjoyed it. I am glad that I read it.
A must read.. One of the best translated version of the Ramayan and easy to read..Simple and forthright in style and using words..
This book is a retelling of Valmiki's ancient poem, the Ramayana.
For many readers without a scholarly or religious interest in ancient India, this is just too long.
Grownup people may read Vaalmeeki and Kamban.As such, this isn't the most linguistically rich retelling of the Ramayana.
The Ramayana falls comfortably within the archetypal tradition of 'hero proving himself in the wilderness' stories.
Besides the Bhagavad Gita, this was my first prolonged exposure to the literary tradition of Ancient India.
I was pleasantly surprised to find a story that reminded of Homer, all the while carrying with it the same weight, and no doubt a similar influence too.
Great read but with heaps of grammatical mistakes.
Gave 5 stars just because the title name is "Ramayana" It is always great to read indian religious scriptures.
I have read the hardcopy of this book a long time ago.
But i was very astonished to see heaps of grammatical mistakes in this ebook on kindle.
I was able to see the mistakes because i have read the hardcopy and saw Ramayana on doordarshan during my childhood.
But the mistakes in book are bound to confuse a first time reader of this great book.
I request the kindle management to rectify the mistakes in the ebook.
Simple and best way of narrating this great epic.
First, now that I'm a mother myself, I see more clearly how engrossing a story it is for kids, a way to impart the values of a culture in the most engaging and memorable way.
That said, as a modern woman, this story drives me crazy, in that the most prized virtues for women are silence, obedience, and a deep willingness to sacrifice oneself for the men in one's life.
but, it illustrates that to the creator of this story the most sacred virtue is one's sense of duty above all else, and through this choice Ram shows his ultimate devotion to his people.
On 300 pages - the whole story.Raman, Sita, Ravan and Hanuman were now alive on book pages, great!2015: Newly read, really great book still :)***********Opiskelijana matkustimme vaimoni kanssa eri puolilla Aasiaa, ja tämä teema tuntui olevan hallitseva erilaisissa tanssiesityksissä Keralasta Balille.
Itse opus oli ajoittain käsissä, mutta tuntui aika vaikealta.
Sen takia oli ilo löytää Delhin kesäkuisesta yli 45 asteen helteestä kirjakaupassa lapsille suunnattu ja helpotettu Ramayana.
300 sivussa koko tarina.
Raman, Sitan ja Hanumanin tarina ja elämä avautuivat nyt ulkopuolisellekin.
Kirjaa, joka on vanhahtavaa englantilaista proosaa, lukiessa ei voinut välttyä ajatukselta, että ei ihme että tämä taru on ollut niin suosittu kaikenikäisille kaikkina aikoina.2015: Uudelleen luettuna, todella hieno kirja ;)
While the norm is to read Valmiki’s massive rendition, I decided to delve back into Lord Rama’s world through the words of C.Rajagopalachari. Reputed for his simple prose and intuitive grasp for reading between the lines, the author manages to preserve the sanctity of the Ramayana without being pedantic. The  Ramayana  is the mothership of epic Indian Fantasy. It is, in every sense of the phrase, a tale as old as time and is packed to the rafters with a noble hero, a beautiful heroine, a schemin
Reputed for his simple prose and intuitive grasp for reading between the lines, the author manages to preserve the sanctity of the Ramayana without being pedantic.
Ramayana
It is, in every sense of the phrase, a tale as old as time and is packed to the rafters with a noble hero, a beautiful heroine, a scheming deviant, a lusty villain, loyal friends and an army of blood thirsty warriors.
To know a story since childhood and yet feel that shiver of fear and excitement trickle down your spine at key moments is what makes the Ramayana a timeless classic.
I am and will always be completely enchanted by this tale.
However this is also very enjoyable and rich of moral lessons for any adult.the story told, since written for children, in a very easy english language.
The additional point of this book is also how the writer often add explanation paragraph to lead any reader to understand the point of view of any character or event that's happening on the story.
So the writer explain why Rama made the decision so we can get moral lesson from it.In the end, I really happy with this book and really satisfied.
Written in a simple and crisp language. It's a book for the ages and can be read by any age group
The story started with a good pace but somewhere in the middle lost the traction, and changed from a narrative to dialogue between characters.Nice comparison at suitable places of deviations observed in Sri Ramcharitmanas compared to the original Ramayana and translated version The Kamba Ramayana.Though at some places, the narrative seemed wanting for explanation but a good justice to the original objective of the book - A simplified no-frills Ramayana.
I have deducted one star as the book is riddled with spelling, grammar and typographical errors. However the translation is written in an easy to follow and engaging style and putting aside my pedantry, I found it enjoyable. If you are new to Hinduism and the Ramayana, the multiple names used for the protagonists can be initially confusing as these aren't explained.
having read ramayana before, i was expecting similar read in this book.But Mr rajagopalachari has meticulously written all the happenings in the ramayana & distributed them in 75 chapters.The way he has explained the nature's beauty, characters & the incidents is truly marvelous.Five starer without an iota of doubt.
awful. awkwardly translated english. full of condescending asides and comments. i know this book is considered a classic and generations of Indian kids have read it. but i don't think it's aged well.the glossary is somewhat useful but is inadequate and incomplete. i would recommend finding a better translation.
Beautifully written touching all the main and sub character of the epic.
Good bookHad good overview of Ramayana which fits to the modern world theme and covers most of the story with little bit of modernization
Maybe it was the first time after reading this as a child, I realized that you can actually hate a book.
And the recent events in India (https://thewire.in/politics/hindu-ekt...) have made me realize a book can turn into actual poison.
The castism is just another thing, highly adored and highly established by valmiki, in Ramyana: It is a "curse" to be born in lower caste, Brahamans have superpowers and commence god, Kshatriyas work for Brahamans in a way (with their power and money), and the classic Shabari who bows and all because she was just a tribal woman (low caste) and Ram was obviously from higher caste (btw, where the classic noblism and respect for old people suddenly went away from Ram?).
(Read this to research for a story I am writing.) Non-stop Rama worship as expected. Blind uncritical acceptance of the morality preached here and of the many follies of the lead characters. As an overview of the Valmeeki version, useful for academic / research purposes.
What is righteous in an era may not be in another, but values, virility & leadership will remain through the ages. Ramayana will give you the benchmark of those qualities which serves as a great anchor in your day to day life.
These scenes are important to keep because Ramayana goes beyond being a great adventure tale, it’s one that reflects the morals of an ancient society and what is deemed most valuable and honorable.The Ramayana as a story may be more enticing to children than Mahabharata, being filled with a magical world and kingdom ruled by monkey-men, but to modern adults it can be frustrating.
It’s a story whose society is filled with sexism and a women’s proper role is shown to be through obedience to men and silence.
