https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34297.London_Transports
By far my least favorite Binchy book. Don't get me wrong: Each short story is brilliant. My complaint? Liked the characters way too much to say goodbye to them so quickly.
Maeve Binchy is a master at creating believable and sympathetic characters that readers can readily identify with. This early collection of short stories/character profiles is a good study for any writer trying to develop more realistic 3D characters and is a delight for any reader.
I have been reading her novels and short stories for so many years I was just used to her books.
For those that have read Maeve Binchy before she has stories that deal with adultery, betrayal, abortion, love, unrequited love, race relations.
A collection of stories that take place in a very ordinary setting, but are so intriguing.
The author can make you empathise with these characters even though the stories are not very long, though it’s true that because of this some of the endings feel abrupt, mostly because I want to find out more!On the other hand, the characters are not very diverse, which I have to note because I feel like multiculturalism is the heart and soul of London.
Each begins with the name of a place there, but it has little effect on the events, which could have happened anywhere.
I am unsure of how I felt about these short stories l. I like the idea but feel that many of them missed the mark for me.
Most every tale deals with the shortsightedness of human understanding of themselves and of their relationships with others, and while this is certainly a universal theme that Binchy does deal with repeatedly in all of her work, she usually does so in a mostly optimistic way.
Binchy is known for her exploration of the complexities and foibles of relationships and the human heart, particularly of women, but I find in her novels that she shows more compassion for her characters and most of the time the main character sees personal growth, an epiphany, or the like, that is mostly satisfying to the reader and shows Binchy's faith in the human spirit.
I only read "Marble Arch," but there wasn't really an option to review a single short story so I guess I have to settle for the compilation it's from.The story was decent: well-realized characters and a straightforward narrative which gradually fleshed out their lives (with pointed sympathy toward the protagonist).
Or rather, it didn't communicate anything other than the fact that the character's life was kind of pathetic.
Even though she was compared to some sort of deity.I liked the details of the story, though.
Particularly as I read the story within a month of having walked through Marble Arch and down Oxford Street and all over London, really.
Maeve Binchy is great at relationships - how people interact with one another, whether they've been together for a day or many years, is something she writes about with great flair.
I had a few favorites: the one I mention above, which pulled me into the book initially, for instance.
Now that I've finished the book, I realize that I should have limited myself to just one or two stories at a time, because when read all at once, they do begin to run together.
:) Do I need say more?This book is a collection of short stories by this gal, Maeve Binchy, who I believe is from Dublin.
:)It’s such a good book!
There’s about 17 little snippets from the lives of different English women at particular moments.
It’s like a Sex and the City where the women refer to their boyfriends as 'blokes' and take the 'underground' to get places.
But themes are all universal anyways, so it’s completely relatable and loveable.
her anxiety to abortion and lesbianism, this book is such a nice, welcome treat from the novel-type.It's humourous, and thought-provoking.
This is a book of 22 short stories by Maeve Binchy. I love Binchy's novels, and while there were a couple of short stories here that I was less than thrilled with, overall, it was quite a good collection. Stories like Seven Sisters, concerning a married couple about to embark on a wife-swapping odyssey, were not only very funny but heartwarming. Others, like Finsbury Park, about a woman who physically escapes poverty but psychologically cannot get over its devastating consequences, were really good but very sad, and a couple of stories, like Queensway, were creepy. I would definitely recommend!
The thing I liked best about this book was that the short stories had different styles to them. Some were in typical Maeve Binchy fashion, but some had a different sort of flavor to them. For instance, there was one that you would find in a horror anthology not because of any guts or gore but because of the general creepiness of it. It gave a good glimpse into another side of Maeve Binchy.
A lot of depressing and frustrating characters, not the usual Mauve Binchy I expected. Almost stopped mid-way but slogged through. Glad I finished it but only giving it two stars for that reason. Also, a couple of the stories were from another collection, so repeats for me.
They weren't short stories: they just felt unfinished.3 stories in, I gave up!
You couldn't be too careful these days, with teams of pickpockets coming to London from abroad."There are other interesting passages as well, like when an "old spinster" visits a porn shop, looking for a book to learn what to do in bed now that she's about to lose her virginity, and she finds it very hard to choose the right book, since there are "no men in raincoats (...), no minister figures with moustaches and sunglasses salivating over pictures in filthy books", after all every single volume seems to be "wrapped in cellophane".My favourite story is probably the one where a woman works as a secretary to other women who should clearly have been promoted a long time ago, if it weren't for the sexist environment they work in.
I have Irish blood on both sides of my US family, and have always felt a stronger connection to my Irish roots than that of the German or French.
And I love novels set in Ireland and England especially.
There's something about the history, the struggles, and the no-nonsense approach.
This compilation of short stories are set in London and cover all gamuts of personalities and issues from romance, to family, to making bad/better choices, and learning from your mistakes and, thankfully, those around you.
MB's novels have generally happy-endings and although that can be overly done, I found that in this book, it was also a nice break from the struggles of life.
I have read many books by Maeve Binchy. These collection of short stories were not bad. I enjoy her writing very much, but I found some of these stories boring and unfinished. I had to force myself to finish the book. I was looking forward to reading this book, but many of the stories were disappointing.
Easy summer reading. Some of the stories just sort of end, without really going anywhere, others have a bit of a twist or moral at the end. Some are predictable, others not. One thing tho, is that except for possibly mentioning in passing the name of the station that is also the title of each story, they really have nothing to do with those stations.
Сборник очень страшных рассказов про женщин. Нет, насилия и резни бензопилой по-техасски там нет, а зато все время узнаешь свои собственные паттерны мышления и отношений с друзьями, родными, партнерами, коллегами, и видишь, какие же они извращенные. Феминистический мастрид.
I love every single thing Maeve Binchy wrote. This was no exception. This is a series of short (*very* short) stories and I was amazed how quickly I was absorbed into each story. I miss Maeve Binchy, as if I knew her in person. I'm so glad she left us all of these wonderful books.
Technically I didn’t finish reading the book because it kept starting new stories without finishing it. It was very frustrating because the individual stories were good and would have been good novels all on its own.
This is a collection of wonderful stories some of which I wish I could have stayed with. I am sure there are some that could have been a full blown novel but it was a delight to dip into the short stories.
Not one of Maeve Binchy's best collection of short stories. I think it was an earlier work and it lacks the polish of later books. The stories just aren't quite interesting enough though I always enjoy her style of writing.
this took forever to read. not a light, fluffy Binchy. this was damned depressing at times. a truly hard slog.I didn't hate it - but it was work.I like the format, almost like an old-school serial. I read sections on my commutes - had to put it aside a few times to lighten the mood.
A collection of short stories that I've started at least twice before, always putting it aside after only 1-2 stories.........& this third time was NOT the charm. Maybe I just don't like short stories?? These (the first 2 in the book) were boring, non-involving, shallow, unappealing.
Loved this book, every chapters characters could have been made into a full length story in their own right. Not read short stories for ages and didn't realise that was, what I was getting when I started this, but really enjoyed it.
A collection of short stories of people in various parts of London. A whole lot of drama and very little satisfaction. While I have enjoyed her novels, perhaps because of the length and opportunity for resolution, these just present the drama or crisis and then move on to the next tale.
Are you looking for a short story collection that is well written, has you curious for more about each of the characters, and is true to life? Maeve Binchy is in her element with these. Glorious!
Yes still love maeve bench! Best story was kings cross.
A very good collection of heartwarming short strides that describe London lives
Great inspiring short stories . So much truth in them . I really enjoyed .
