https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6909544-birthmarked
the fact that i can't think of a single thing to say about this book should be review enough, right?
it was a "good" "read," i am just having difficulty saying anything interesting tonight.i will just sit here and hope the votes pour in without any effort on my part...yes??no??okay, i will give it a go.
thanks for the candy, though!and i am still interested in reading the continuation - like i said, it has potential, and there are at least two major questions left unanswered.
and i have curiosities.i think i am probably just not in the review-writing mood, but a lot of it is how little impression this book left upon me.
A young adult-themed take on a future city in the US in which 2 social groups vie for scarce commodities, the one inside the wall gets all the best things and the people outside the wall have to make do.
The outsiders, who in exchange for a few crumbs from the table, have to give up a number of babies each month.
That's right, I said babies.
A young girl training to be a midwife, like her mother on the outside of the wall, accepts this way of life as it is all she has ever known until her parents are arrested and taken to a prison in the walled city.
*Read my review of all 3 books in the series before deciding whether to read this!I cannot wait for the sequel! I thought this would be a heavy read, but I was so wrong. It is everything a gripping dystopian should be, but has wonderful characters who grow through adversity and whose experiences afford powerful insights into what is most important in life.A dark future world is divided between those who live inside the wall, and those - like sixteen year old Gaia Stone - who live outside. Gaia
It is everything a gripping dystopian should be, but has wonderful characters who grow through adversity and whose experiences afford powerful insights into what is most important in life.A dark future world is divided between those who live inside the wall, and those - like sixteen year old Gaia Stone - who live outside.
Gaia has always been an obedient citizen, but when events reveal new information about the Enclave Gaia is determined to find out the truth and protect those she loves.Gaia had a wonderful upbringing; her parents' depth and wisdom nourished her character so that she was ready to face difficulties with courage and selflessness.
I also didn't understand the need to separate the people from the Enclave and those outside the wall, since the Enclave readily accepted babies from outside the wall and the Enclave wanted to diversify their genetics.
I didn't even understand the need for the secret notes on the babies' births since the Enclave had the technology for genetic testing.
Why would the Enclave care if people kept notes on who the babies' parents were if none of those children wanted to leave the Enclave anyway?
Solo me hizo fea e indigna del Enclave."Marca de Nacimiento es una distopía en donde se ven las consecuencias del cambio climático.
Se vive de una de dos maneras: o en el Enclave en donde viven los privilegiados o extramuros en donde a cambio de agua y micoproteína (una proteína en polvo de origen vegetal) deben entregar al Enclave una cuota de bebés recién nacidos.
Todo cambia cuando encarcelan a los padres de Gaia, una chica de 16 años que es comadrona y esta entra al Enclave a rescatarlos.
Es una novela buena por momentos, predecible en otros y la mayor parte del tiempo poco mas que entretenida.
To be honest, only a marginally interesting premise kept me skimming last 200 pages of the book instead of giving up on it completely.Gaia Stone is a 16-year old midwife in training in a small village near a walled city called Enclave.
At the beginning of the book Gaia assists in birthing a baby and an hour later "advances" it, meaning she takes the baby from its mother and gives it over to the Enclave guards to be raised inside the city walls.
I've read it a few times already. *smile!*
Actual Rating: 3.5 stars.It is somewhat different to other novels of this genre, due mostly to the heroin being a midwife.I enjoyed it, but it does have different moments of intensity. It engaged me more at some times than others, however, there are some situations that are definitely memorable. This book could work just as well if the characters were older.Ill keep reading this series.Book 2: Prized - 4.5 starsBook 3: Promised - 2.5 stars
Actual Rating: 3.5 stars.It is somewhat different to other novels of this genre, due mostly to the heroin being a midwife.I enjoyed it, but it does have different moments of intensity. It engaged me more at some times than others, however, there are some situations that are definitely memorable. This book could work just as well if the characters were older.I´ll keep reading this series.Book 2: Prized - 4.5 starsBook 3: Promised - 2.5 stars
I had some difficulty getting my head into the world – possibly due to some pre-conceived ideas I had about the book, which turned out to be pretty far off the mark.
(And I’m not sure that metaphor really works, but you know what I mean..)Translated, this basically means that the book grew on me and I found it got stronger the further I read.
I wasn’t completely sure for the first third or so, but I did end up enjoying this book, particularly once the action shifted locations (view spoiler)[from outside the wall to within the Enclave.
Words fail to adequately describe how astonishingly completely Caragh O’Brien drew me into Gaia’s dystopian world in this debut YA novel.
BIRTHMARKED is a layered and action-packed dystopian treat that just might satisfy readers eagerly awaiting the third and final installment of The Hunger Games series.I am absolutely bowled over by how well-written this book is.
From Gaia, the determined “everywoman” protagonist, to the alluring and quietly troubled Captain Gray, to everyone who helps or harms Gaia along the way…all are engaging and three-dimensional to capture our attention from the start and hold on throughout.A dystopian novel is nothing without a well executed and faithfully imagined world-gone-wrong.
Such a good dystopian book!I love the world that was created.
It seemed so realistic and could even be true.
She was very set on helping her parents until the very end, love her growth.
Get this one of you enjoy a dystopian that's written well with a likable character who will stop at nothing to help her own family.
They might kill you for it, but you can always say no." (112)"Give it enough time, and this place will destroy even you." (166)"Hen you decide something's right, there's nothing that can stop you from doing it." (340)
Kötü, kötü, kötü, kötü, kötü bi' distopyaydı. Kitabı gördüğünüz an yolunuzu değiştirin derim.😒😒
Sinceramente este libro lo cogí de la biblioteca la semana pasada por que me llamaba bastante la atención y estuvo bien, sí, pero no la gran cosa.
En un principio la historia es muy lenta pero como empieza explicando las cosas va bien para situarte, pero llega cierto punto donde cansa mucho.
Hacía mitad-final del libro hay bastante acción y fue eso lo que más me enganchó e hizo que no dejara el libro en la página que me había quedado.
And as O’Brien never fully includes secondary characters, Gaia fails to play the heroine and is too weak to carry the entire book.
Before her, warm and exponentially massive, stood the broad hearth of the much-used, black-ovened bakery.” –Pg. 207	Therefore in the end, my poor rating and review of this book is due to O’Brien’s use of messy language and literary devices, her disorganized and unfocused writing, her poor pacing of her story lines, and her failure of introducing more supportive characters and making her weak protagonist carry the whole book.
Gaia Stone lives in a dystopian society that's split in two: the rich, privileged members live inside the walled Enclave while the rest, including Gaia, live in poverty Outside.
There's also a surprise for Gaia once she enters the Enclave - she realises that the split society isn't as simple as she first thought and she's faced with shocking reality.Birthmarked has everything I could want in a young adult dystopian novel, including the inevitable romance.
Leon has his own back story, which isn't as desirable as Gaia first thought.Birthmarked is an epic, thought-provoking dystopian novel.
Caragh O’Brien’s book Birthmarked tells the story of a world where the state is able to take infants away from their mothers by quota.
The population of the Sectors are obligated by law to advance the first three babies born each month to the Enclave.
She removes the infant and advances it to the authorities at the Enclave.
Gaia is proud to be doing her civic duty.
The list was hidden and in code.Throughout the book, Gaia’s memories of her childhood are told in flashback.
As the book progresses, Gaia’s character realizes that the people outside the Enclave are basically reproductive slaves.
While the pain of losing a child is great, the mothers know that their baby will be living in a community with conveniences not available to the people living in Wharfton, like electricity and running water.Gaia doesn't know what to do when her parents are arrested and taken by the Guard of the Protectorat.
Even though the world is completely different than the one we live in, the problems Gaia encounters are very similar - she enjoys time with her family, likes socializing with friends, and is insecure when it comes to love.BIRTHMARKED is fantastic.
Finally what I've been looking for - a decent dystopian fiction with likeable, multi-dimensional characters (including a tough-as-nails heroine), an interesting plot and world set-up, and writing that isn't utterly appalling.The premise is fairly simple: a classic futuristic walled society scenario, where those inside the wall (the Enclave) are rich and privileged, while those who live outside the walls mostly depend on help given by the Enclave.
She doesn't take any crap from him either - when she thinks (fairly enough) that he has abandoned her, she is angry and wastes no time before putting him out of her mind and getting on with finding a way to save herself and her mother.
I seriously did not want to like it (yeah, I know why the heck did I have the book and why was I reading it if I had a bad attitude...long story).
Anyways, I was ready and willing to compare every part of this book to The Hunger Games, which I did.
Ok, I still had issues with the beginning and the end but the "meat" of the book, the story, was wonderful.My problems with the book-In the beginning of the book Gaia is very ignorant of what is really going on around her.
Gaia Stone's family has always faithfully served the Enclave.
Her father makes his living as a simple tailor, and her mother is a midwife, delivering the first three babies of every month to the Enclave for compensation.
Now sixteen-years-old, Gaia is finally able to step into her mother's lead and deliver babies on her own.
There isn't any tension between her family and the Enclave until one night Gaia's parents are arrested without any explanation.
Also, the antagonist of the novel was rather dull, and the climax of the story - lets just say it was rather...
I was in the mood to read a good, satisfying dystopian and Birthmarked really fit the bill.
This book should satisfy those looking for something similar to the Hunger Games with its intrigue, mystery and suspense.The dystopian world is set up very well, with a plausible concept, and the characters are compelling.
It is nice to see someone who can look past Gaia’s scars and believe in her.The book is paced very well, and held my interest from beginning to end.
Those looking for a satisfying dystopian after finishing the Hunger Games should enjoy this series.
I love the way the author really drew you in from the first page with intrigue and the thrill of walking in the same footsteps as our main character, Gaia, a young woman who grows up in a world thinking that life is just black and white.
As the story progresses, Gaia slowly begins to discover that the black and white world she felt comfortable in, was in fact filled with many gray areas and it was just really exciting to go on the adventure with Gaia on her path of discovery of this new world.
But it was relatively easy to see where she was coming from; she, like many others, believed that the babies would have better lives inside the wall.
I feel like I’ve read too many books where one or both of the parents don’t live up to their role, so it was a joy to see it was not the case here.
Nor were here parents ignorant or conforming – quite the contrary.I loved how O’Brien created characters who really weren’t what they seemed, or even the Enclave, society inside the wall.
Definitely had a good start, but I found it to be slightly uneven.
World building good, characters interesting, plot was compelling and moved the reader along.
I guess sometimes the coincidences didn't always work for me (like when the main character meets just the person who can help her in an alley--a man who she's never met before--right when she needs help), and sometimes the writing pulled me out of the story, especially near the end.
Love the colored stringy lines on the cover!12/8: I keep not wanting to take this off of my 2010favorites shelf, so I guess it's a true 4 stars.
Something between 3/4 stars...I liked some things and I didn't like other things and I don't want to spoil anything so I'll talk about this later :)
Birthmarked pretty much had me from the first few pages!
My friends have been telling me that I'd enjoy these books and, as usual, they're right.
I started and finished this one in one day and it's been a very long time since that's happened.Gaia is a midwife in a society where the people who live on the outside of the wall are willing to give their newborns up so they will be raised in better circumstances on the inside of the wall.
I had a hard time putting it down.
Gaia was a strong heroine, nothing wishy washy about her.
In order to solve this problem the Enclave established a "quota" of babies each month, meaning that every midwife outside the wall had to take the first 3 newborns they attended and give them to the families inside so they can be adopted and raised with all the privileges.
What he says is law.CHARACTERS: Gaia Stone is a 16 year old girl and one of those poor people living outside the Enclave with her parents, she has been trained to be a midwife just like her mother and in this context is where the book begins.
I started out with the audio, and the narrator did a big injustice to an already slow moving storyline.
The main character was supposed to be a strong resourceful heroine but the narrator made her seem timid and flat.
I started reading the book about halfway through and it was much better, but overall I was completely underwhelmed.
Somewhere I read the book was compared to The Hunger Games(or at least the Capitol therein) and The Handmaid's Tale.
It seems to me that a really good writer could come up with a better way to end books like these and yet still leave them open for a sequel.
The Enclave's insistence on perfection is what ultimately saves Gaia (yep, the name is significant), who has a disfiguring scar on her face.
She's also saved by her naivete and intelligence, and by her non-unexpected knack for getting people to help her (even when they'd be at risk for doing so).
While the ending, and the uncertainty of what the rest of America is like at this time, lends itself to a series, my hope is that this is a one-off.ARC provided by publisher
I really wanted to love this book, but sadly I did not. I felt that it just dragged on and was a bit anti-climatic for me. I tried to connect with the characters and I just couldn't. Another reviewer mentioned the characters seemed more like rough sketches and I have to agree. In the end, I had to force myself to finish the book. It seems like there will be a sequel and I'll think I'll give it another shot. But for now it's pretty far down on my list. :(
