https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24770.Uglies
Basically, the pretty surgery makes most people stupid, unless the occupation that the government determines for them requires intelligence.
Yes, kids, if you let the government give you free health care checkups, it's only a small step to the day they start chopping up your brain.Luckily, said ugly teens (particularly our protagonist, Tally, through her bff, Shay) discover that if they flee to the wilderness, they will be able to live a life of freedom and romance.
While not as good as other YAs I’ve read, I thought that the world envisioned by the story was fresh and promising and fit within the framework of the novel.
So, overall, excellent back-story and interesting world building give me some reason to think that the sequels might be worth a gander at some point.
I recently read an incredibly powerful short story called Ponies: A Tor.Com Original that covered many of the themes in this book.
That story was only TWO PAGES long and yet conveyed a MUCH MORE POWERFUL message.
Just to be clear, the real difference between sci-fi and fantasy is that the technology in science fiction novels could conceivably work if someone ever built it (dragons, most likely, are never going to be genetically engineered so they’re a good indicator of a fantasy novel).
The cities have their own culture, the characters their own slang, but Westerfeld manages to bring in enough references to our own contemporary culture that it’s easy for readers to believe Tally’s world is built on the ruins of our own.You can find this review and more on my blog Miss Print
But this is supposed to be a book about beauty with a big B and the writing doesn’t do justice to the theme.
He’s telling us “I’m right, you should believe me, because I detain the truth.” I deeply love nature and also fear for its future, but I want to believe that mankind has an equal capacity for creation and destruction, for beauty and ugliness, for right and wrong.
Westerfeld wants to talk about free thinking, nature, man, beauty, but he doesn’t do it well.Also, I may not be an expert about economics but it seems to me that without a financial system, a country cannot work.
“In a world of extreme beauty, anyone normal is ugly.”  In Tally Youngblood's society, everyone obtains absolute physical perfection - the perfect skin, hair, eyes, literally everything. At least, after you turn sixteen and undergo the right operations.Tally, at age 15, is an Ugly right now but after her birthday, she will get to become Pretty. She can then move out of the Ugly Dorms and into New Pretty Town.  It's all she wants.After all, who in their right mind would choose to remain Ugly? Al
At least, after you turn sixteen and undergo the right operations.Tally, at age 15, is an Ugly right now but after her birthday, she will get to become Pretty.
It's all she wants.After all, who in their right mind would choose to remain Ugly?
There are people, "Smokies," who live outside of their city and would rather  remain Ugly than turn Pretty.
insane (by Tally's standards).A few days before their birthday, Shay takes off to find the Smokies, leaving Tally to go through the operation along.
She's waited all her life to become Pretty - there's no way she wants to be stuck with her Ugliness forever.
It tells the story of teenager Tally Young blood who rebels against society's enforced conformity, after her newfound friends Shay and David show her the downsides to becoming a "Pretty".تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: زشتها کتاب اول از چهارگانه؛ نویسنده: اسکات وسترفیلد؛ مترجم: نوشین هنرپیشه؛ ویراستار: نیما کهندانی؛ تهران، آذرباد، 1393، در دو جلد؛ شابک: جلد اول: 97860062255555؛ جلد دوم: 9786006225562؛ در 448 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نوجوانان از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 21 متالی به زودی شانزده‌ ساله می‌شود، او نمی‌تواند صبر کند.
اما دوست جدید تالی، «شِی»، مطمئن نیست که می‌خواهد زیبا شود، یا نه.
پس از فرار شِی، تالی، بُعد تازه‌ ای از زندگی زیباروها را، کشف می‌کند...
کتاب حاضر نخستین قسمت از مجموعه‌ ی چهار قسمتی زشت‌ها است.
Do you know that feeling, when you really want to punch a character in the face? Well, Tally Youngblood, you must be grateful that I can't see your face.Now I should stop the rant... the book itself was a quick read, but I don't get the hype. Enjoyable, yes. Good, not that much. I'm not really sure if I'll ever finish this series. Maybe one day if I'm actually bored.
While Westerfeld hasn't completely dumbed down his writing, it is certainly much more accessible than his adult novels.
Tally is a likeable teenager that the readers will identify with, and her plights are standard ones, considering the world she inhabits.Yes, it takes some suspension of disbelief to accept the premise that all people are given massive plastic surgery and made "pretty" at the age of 16.
Sure, the story continues, but Westerfeld does give the first book a sense of closure.
But Tally has no intention of running away: turning pretty is all she wants, so she can be with her friend Peris again across the river, and be noticed and listened to because beautiful people cannot be ignored.But on the day of her own operation, she is taken instead to Special Circumstances, where cruel pretties with lethal reflexes bring her to Dr. Cable.
They want to know about Shay and the Smoke and where it is located, but Tally keeps her promise not to tell.
Parts of it I'm obsessed with, other parts I think I'm a little too old for. That said, here I am picking up another teen-fiction. I am in denial. I'll be 60 and still reading teen fictions.
I loved this book for what it is: a reminder of my childhood and a beautiful story about accepting yourself for who you are.
RTC.
- - - THIS JUST IN: SCOTT WESTERFELD IS WRITING FOUR NEW NOVELS IN THE UGLIES WORLD AND IT IS LIKE MY CHILDHOOD HAS BEEN BROUGHT BACK TO LIFE.
IT IS GOING TO BE CALLED IMPOSTORS AND COMES OUT SEPTEMBER 11TH AND MY LITTLE HIGH SCHOOL HEART IS BEATING AGAIN I REPEAT BEATING AGAIN.
REREADING THIS NOW AND THEN I WILL TELL YOU GUYS HOW MUCH I STILL ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT.SLDFJEROIGHNWSFCMJGNHEAJFSFAJSDFHG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest A world where you are an ugly until your sixteenth birthday. And then, you undergo a surgery and you become pretty. And life is perfect. Except, maybe it isn’t. This is one of those books where you visualise a world in so many details, and feel like you’ve lived there all your life. Also a book that captures society for what really is. A very pleasant and enjoyable read. I received this book as a birthday gift. Have a look at my birthday book hau
This is one of those books where you visualise a world in so many details, and feel like you’ve lived there all your life.
A place where the ”uglies” are separated from the real world until they do a surgery and become pretties.
I enjoyed reading about the world, how the author put the society together, and how it all worked out.
It was enough for me to keep turning page after page in the middle of the night.The world the author created and the way the society works in this book is incredible.

The slight bumps of the story only take place when it's almost finished and I'm sure any dystopian novel written that way cannot be properly appreciated.
I'm afraid that even if I want to know what happens to Tally and David in the story, I think I'm going to just have to rely on online summaries of the succeeding books because I wouldn't want to go through another agony of reading so many pages mostly wasted on unnecessary details.I’ll give a merit to this book though.
"Uglies" is about Tally Youngblood, who is about to turn sixteen, much to her liking.
The thing is, during her wait to turn sixteen (Tally was the youngest in her group of friends) she meets a girl named Shay, who doesn't want to get the operation.
Although Tally doesn't go with Shay, the city's Specials, who are like the police offers that keep thing in check, tell Tally that unless she brings Shay back to the city, then she won't get the operation.I read this book last year and wanted to review it earlier, but was afraid I wouldn't remember everything and not get it done right.
Over time, I've come to realize and accept that I really like reading them, and there's no contradiction in needing to read other authors in between.I am going through a similar process with young adult novels.
Westerfield resists the urge to use a first-person voice, and that was refreshing.I've recently read quite a few dystopian young adult novels so I didn't enjoy The Uglies as much as I would have if I'd read it in 2011.
He doesn't write young adult fiction, but I can't think of any writers that give their readers as much credit as Wolfe does.
I loved the way Westerfeld described the world; descriptive and vivid, but not too descriptive that you get bored and I loved the parallels of our society that were incorporated in the story.The writing, and Tally, can get a bit tiresome during the first half of the book; there's only so much of her repeating that she can't wait to become 'pretty' without it starting to grate on you.
I bought the following books in the series immediately after finishing and I can't wait to find how Tally and the story progess.
It's just not holding my interest.I've had this book on my TBR shelf for a long time, so I'm glad to know one way or the other and be able to get it off my list.If you are thinking about reading it, it's about a society in the future that undergoes radical plastic surgery and body reconstruction when they reach age 16 to become "beautiful." Everyone ends up more or less looking alike and there is a backdrop of a tyrannical utopian type government in the background.
At an unspecificied time in the future everyone turning sixteen is given surgery to become "pretty." Tally Youngblood is young woman, counting down the days to the procdure which despite being extremely intensive is considered worth it for a life of luxury and decadence among her peers.
And though the story does follow a fairly predictable character arc for Tally (she finds the group, fits in better than Shay and decides to stay), the secret behind the surgery that Scott Westerfield reveals mid-way through the novel is far more fascinating.
And it also goes a long way to explaining some of the behavoir by post-surgery characters in the novel.
One of the characters spends a great deal of time following a riddle another ugly has left behind for her to get from the city to the secret world of the uglies who refused to turn pretty.
These uglies have created a place called The Smoke where they have attempted to keep vestiges of the past alive with a library of books and magazines from the time before everyone's eventual fate was to become a pretty.If the other books in this series are as good as the first, I know what I'm going to be spending too much money on in the next few days or weeks.
The story line is one you've all heard before--in the future, everyone is forced into some nutso plastic surgery which makes you gorgeous, and of course, the post ops spend all day living it up and having a grand ol' time because they're brainwashed and beautiful.
My biggest criticism: I wish the main character was a bit more likable--she's a traitor, and I think we're supposed to forgive her, but I don't really want to.
And except for the brainwashing, I guess it might be sorta fun to live in that kind of a society--everything is recycled and solar powered, and I don't think anyone needs money to buy stuff.
•2.5 αστεράκια•Ξεκίνησα να το διαβάζω έχοντας μεγάλες προσδοκίες για αυτό, αλλά δεν δεν δεν. Από τις σπάνιες φορές που δεν συμπαθώ ούτε ταυτίζομαι με κανέναν χαρακτήρα. Μου φάνηκαν αρκετά βαρετές οι πρώτες 200 σελίδες. Μετά βέβαια σε αποζημιώνει με λίγη δράση και ένα τέλος που σε αφήνει με τη περίεργια του τι γίνεται στη συνέχεια.
4,75Wow, que mundo. Que historia. Me encanto espero seguir con la historia pronto porque ese final... i mean, Scott, loquillo, terminar un libro así, no da,o sea... no.Reseña completa en Gracias a los Libros.
So it took me five days to read this book but it felt like I was reading it for about two weeks.
What I liked: - The type of world Scott Westerfeld created.
I liked how Scott Westerfeld talked trash about us (or as he called us - "Rusties").
What I did not like:- Tally.
I knew from the first chapter where Tally was explaining the vomit-coloured sky that I wouldn't like the writing and I was right.
They didn't seem like consistent characters.
It was so predictable and the godawful slow pace just made the book so much worse.
Also, and maybe most importantly, I don't know how he managed it, but I felt like Scott Westerfeld's writing actually ruined exciting moments.
I felt like Westerfeld either wasn't excited at all, or REALLY didn't know how to write excitement.
If you're going to write a series or trilogy, in my opinion, each book should be able to stand on it's own.
BASICALLY, before I drift too much, I felt like this was a great cliffhanger.
It was exciting and crazy enough to make me want to pick up the next book, but I don't feel cheated.
I feel like I did finish a story.
I mean let’s start with the idea that one of my daughters was reading a book called “Uglies” and continue with the fact that the main character can’t wait to turn 16, so that she can have surgery and become beautiful… As it turns out, I enjoyed the book.In a post-apocalyptic future, everyone lives in “Cities” (of about a million people).
She can’t wait.…Until her best friend starts saying that she doesn’t want to be a Pretty – “They all look the same.
Η ευφυέστατη ιδέα κέντρισε εμένα και φυσικά τους περισσότερους αναγνώστες, όμως ο συγγραφέας -Scott Westerfeld -δεν εκμεταλλεύεται τις ενδιαφέρουσες παραμέτρους αυτής.
Η ιδέα έχει αντίκρυσμα και στο σήμερα γιατί ζούμε και εμείς σε μία τελειοθηρική κοινωνία.
Σε μία κοινωνία παθιασμένη με το φαίνεσθαι και όχι το είναι.
Το δυστοπικό μυθιστόρημα εγείρει αρκετά ηθικά και κοινωνικά ερωτήματα (μήπως η αψεγάδιαστη ομορφιά επιβάλλει έναν τρόπο σκέψης μετατρέποντας τους πάντες σε άβουλες μάζες) αλλά δεν αναπτύσσονται όσο θα μπορούσαν εξαιτίας της απλοϊκής (ακόμη και παιδικής) γραφής.
Δεν ήταν το χειρότερο βιβλίο που έχω διαβάσει αλλά το είχα πλάσει διαφορετικά στο μυαλό μου.
Real rating: 3.5Well,this was fun.After reading a bazillion bad reviews I thought that this will be really,really bad.But it's not,it's quite amusing actually.The main character,Tally,is really cool.I liked her a lot and I completely understood all of her actions,which is a really rare thing for me.I liked the story line and the whole concept of separating ugly *cough*normal*cough* and pretty people.I also liked the new technology described and used in this book-I'd love to try those hoverboards and bungee jackets!On the other hand,I didn't really liked any other character...Shy is the type of person I find annoying and inconsiderate,I just don't feel like their friendship is real.David is not bad,I have to admit that,but he's nothing special to be honest.I do hope that he will get a decent character development in the next book.Croy seems like a cool character,though.Okay,how badass was Tally in those last 20 pages?!Overall...I'm satisfied.Favourite quotes:“Tally smiled.
Στη σύγχρονη εποχή, είναι όλοι μαζεμένοι σε μεγάλες πόλεις και όλοι οι νέοι μετά από κάποια ηλικία υποβάλλονται σε μια σειρά επεμβάσεων, όπου τους καθιστούν όμορφους (πολύ εμβιομηχανική πέφτει εδώ πέρα) και "κουφιοκέφαλους" και κάθε βράδυ κάνουν πάρτυ στις εστίες όπου κατοικούν.
Οι αποκαλύψεις πολλές, το βιβλίο καλογραμμένο, περνάει διάφορα μηνύματα που θα αφορούσαν τους εφήβους προς συζήτηση (θα ήταν ενδιαφέρον project book σε book-clubs εντός του σχολείου) και η χρήση της σύγχρονης τεχνολογίας προσωπικά με ενθουσίασε.
Επίσης θα ήταν πολύ ενδιαφέρον να βγει σε ταινία, βέβαια αν κρίνουμε από άλλα ΥΑ, ίσως καλύτερα που δεν έγινε.
I want to finish Throne of Glass before I move on to Pretties, but I really liked this book!
For a woman who is like fifty, she is pretty athletic and awesome!
David was a good character, especially when he explained the Rusties.
The stuff we don't even really care that much about like magazines, the characters are thinking of them as artifacts!
This book was so creative and original, but the reason I gave it four stars and not five was because it took me soooo long to finish, it just felt like it dragged on without an end.
