https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355916.Physik

You know, I hate book reviews.
I always feel so inadequate when I like a book other people have panned, and although I don't know of anyone who has read this series and didn't like it at least somewhat, I still feel that my support of these books is on shaky ground.
(insert slightly whiney voice here) But I really like these characters!
And I really like the plots!
And I really like the crazy narratorial style!
This is also why I like the Bartimaeus Trilogy, and Artemis Fowl.
But then maybe I like all these books because they are well written....and fun!
Have you looked in to the Glass yet?"Jenna's voice came from the cupboard.
He looks kind of surprised.""An old man?" asked Jenna.
Septimus's head had disappeared into the Glass as though sinking into a pool of ink.********Physik by Angie Sage is the third book in the Septimus Heap series and was just as exciting as the first two!
I'm listening to this series on audiobook, narrated by Gerard Doyle,whose flawless, 5★ performance adds an extra bit of excitement to the story!
The ending of this book left me on tenterhooks, anxiously awaiting to listen to Queste, the next adventure in the Septimus Heap series!
I'm a big fan of this series! Ghosts, witches, dragons, spells, secret cupboards and tunnels, boggarts, sailing ships, queens, wizards, herbs and magic rings...everything you could possibly imagine in a magical castle realm. Mix that with Shakespearean-style mischief: comedy-of-errors (very human errors!) and mistaken identity. And, on top of all that, the characters are lovably ordinary; the children make friends in a natural, uncalculated way, and the adults are so...imperfect. Lots of fun!
This was not my favorite in the series so far.
It seemed like it took too long to get to the actual plot, and became tedious with far too many new, inconsequential characters added too quickly.
I think that a quarter of the story and several characters could have been left out.
The last few chapters were full of updates and information about the characters that could have been avoided if the story had flowed correctly.
Not a bad Septimus adventure just, for me, a little too jumbled and watered down with to many extraneous events and characters.
That being said, though, I'm glad I finally finished this third installment in the Septimus Heap saga, and can recommend it to others without feeling guilty.
He wishes to learn under the famous Alchemyst Marcellus Pye, who just so happens to be the son of the dreaded Queen Etheldredda.
All of the usual characters are back in this installment: Jenna, Nicko, Aunt Zelda, Spit Fyre, and Alther Mella, along with new ones like the above-mentioned Snorri and Marcellus Pye. Some of them act as they've always acted; some of them act in surprising ways.
As I said, I'm glad I finally finished reading PHYSIK, as I definitely plan to read QUESTE, the fourth book.
I read the first two from beginning to end.
I ended up skimming quickly through it, after reading the first ten chapters, and then I read the bits at the end about what happened to characters.
I got the gist of the book just by doing that and saved myself many more days of dragging this book out.
I really couldn't even bare the idea of extending it with the library, I wanted this book out of my house!So it's now safe to say, I won't be reading the last two books.
My curiosity just isn't bothered about finding out what happens to everyone.
Saking sukanya, 600 halaman pada buku ini aku baca kurang dari 24 jam. Ini salah satu hal yang luar biasa banget buat aku :p. Kisah Septimus bersama keluarganya ini makin seru. Lebih seru lagi dari cerita di dua buku sebelumnya. Recommended bagi siapa saja yang menyukai kisah fantasi dengan keajaiban-keajaiban sihir yang unik dan juga memikat :D
It's kinda like Harry Potter mixed with the Lord of the Rings meets like the Time Warp Trio or something. I've really gotten into them, but they're long. The fourth one, Queste is almost 600 pages and the rest are like 500 some. They usually take me a month to read unless it's the weekend and I have nothing else to do, then it takes like three days. My mom, brother and I all are reading them right now.
A new character, a trader girl enters the scene named Snorri.
She is a nice addition to the growing list of protagonists, and Nicko takes a liking to her (possibly because of their mutual fascination with boats).
Also, a new villian, Queen Etheldredda enters the scene.
I like the family situation as it reminds me of my own, with the kids growing up, they each choose different paths, not all good, but still with strong family ties despite minimal contact and always having faith in each other.
دیگه بیشتر از این نخوندم... :دییادمه خیلی دوسش نداشتم...
Not my favorite. Some of it was a bit confusing and unlike the other books where everything wrapped up. This did not. There was too much focus on new characters who didn't really fit with the story.
The best thing about this third installment is that it features an entirely new and unique plot. After the first two books, I was worried that I would have to keep reading about how they defeat Domdaniel, but this book features a new villain who is unique, interesting, and helps with the worldbuilding as well. I daresay these books are getting better and better.
Unfortunately for everyone, Septimus' dad, Silas, has just unSealed a Sealed room up in the attic unknowingly releasing a truly evil, malevolent pair of ghosts from a cursed portrait.
All sorts of strange adventures follow involving pretty much all of the characters we know plus a few new ones: Spit Fyre, Alther, Alice, Nicko, Snorri and Ullr, Sir Hereward, and others.I am really looking forward to #4 in the series, Queste after all the unfinished events in Physik.
I need to know what happens to Nicko and Snorri.
Anyone who knows me well knows that I struggle with books involving time travel.
I'm fully aware of these issues, and I know I should just get over it, so I tried not to think to hard about logistics, etc, when I stumbled upon time travel in this book.
And the worst part about it is the author just ignores these unresolved giant things, and then writes silly little afterwords about minor little characters and details that are completely unimportant.
The third entry in Angie Sage's seven-book Sepimus Heap series, Physik (2007), begins with Septimus' feckless father Silas the Ordinary Wizard and his coarse "friend" Gringe the North Gate Gatekeeper (two of the many fallible adults whose mistakes make life interesting for Sage's child heroes and readers) "UnSealing" a Sealed room in the palace attic so that Silas may keep safe there his prized colony of sentient board game counters.
Sage introduces neat new characters, like the 14-year-old Hanseatic League Northern Trader Snorri Snorrelssen, who's come to the Castle of the Small Wet Country Across the Sea for the first time, partly in search of the ghost of her father.
Dan memang Ratu Etheldredda ( boleh dibaca Etheldreadful, saking menakutkan dan awfulnya ) lebih menyayangi Aie-Aie daripada putra dan putrinya.Woden’s Day – Hari RaboeSnorri Snorrelssen ( ehhm nama yang lucu ) 13 tahun dan Ullr , merupakan tokoh baru juga dibuku ini, anak dari Pedagang Olaf Snorrelssen ( yang sudah menjadi hantu ) dan Alfrun ( nama ibu sekaligus nama kapal besarnya Snorri ).
Dan Kaca ini milik Marcellus saat menjadi Alkemie.Loki’s Day – Hari SabtoeSebenarnya kalo dibandingin ama Domdaniel Sang Necromancer, Ratu Etheldreadful lebih galak dan kejam, tapi kenapa kerjaannya disini Cuma jalan-jalan naik kapal yah, Yang menakutkan malah kisah-kisah masa lalunya.
The best part of the book to me is the most sad and sweetest part is when Nicko stays behind in to look for Snorri.
But I think Septimus was right Nicko will find a way he is a great reliable character.To sum the book up Silas and Gringe free an evil ghost.
Then the evil Queen sendsthe young Septimus to her 500 year old son Marcellus.
After that Snorri, Nicko and Jenna go back into time to get Septimus then they pass through the gates of time but Nicko stays back to get Snorri.I think people who love adventure books should reads this.
I'm not sure how I feel about the increasingly multi-person perspectives, but if you know its there, it works okay.I think if you're going to read these, you have to be okay with Sage's style and the (I do hate to say it) but lack of "depth." Perhaps part of this is because I've forgotten things from the first few books, but I found myself wanting our young princess to do more, to stand up more, (and, you know, try to save the Rats).
I do appreciate the 'younger style' of writing and characters, and I think it would be a good tale for MG readers — especially those looking for a fast read.
A great continuation of the tales of Septimus and Jenna.
I truly enjoyed the plot and all the characters.
I, of course, hated Etheldredda and all that she did.
This proves what excellent writing it is: when the character is utterly horrible and you are suppose to hate them, then you actually do.
I also liked the dynamic between Marcia and Septimus.
She truly had to understand what her responsibility is as queen and what she has to do to make things right.
Will we find out later on about them and the Great Alchemie Disaster?
4,5/5 ★
Set only about 3 months after Flyte, Simon is pretty much no longer a concern and a new character, Snorri Snorrenson is introduced.
It takes a while for things to get going in this story and I still struggled with the author's tendency to go off topic to explain stuff and introduce characters that don't really do much for the story.
I can think of at least 5 characters that are explained and used in this story that weren't really necessary.
Now that I think on it, I struggle with time travel stories for this very reason.
This only gets better and better! Things to expect from book No. 3:- Alchemy- Time travel (via looking glasses) - Shapeshifting panther - Viking trader girl, sailing her own damn ship - Evil Murderous Ghost Queen - A somewhat untrained dragon I really like the characters in this series, but I have to admit: SPIT FYRE (The dragon) might just be my favourite ❤ Ullr is pretty cool, too...They just add that little extra... every time someone went “Oh, no, SPIT FYRE!!!” I couldn’t help but laugh!
This only gets better and better! Things to expect from book No. 3:- Alchemy- Time travel (via looking glasses) - Shapeshifting panther - Viking trader girl, sailing her own damn ship - Evil Murderous Ghost Queen - A somewhat untrained dragon I really like the characters in this series, but I have to admit: SPIT FYRE (The dragon) might just be my favourite ❤️ Ullr is pretty cool, too...They just add that little extra... every time someone went “Oh, no, SPIT FYRE!!!” I couldn’t help but laugh!
The 11 year old and I are reading this together and thoroughly enjoying it. The other books so far have been a little better, but Etheldredda was truly dreadful, and Marcellus was a truly great character, neither a true hero or villain.
back in time exciting forgot all this happened :O now when I think about it, Jenna's dopple-ganger, Esmeralda that she met was like her great x 30 grandmother
A theme in this story is:Family can always be separated, but are never truly apart (in more ways than one)
Book three takes readers further into the life of Septimus Heap who is a wizard. The series is fun and a must have for fans of wizards, magic and fun.
However, in contrast, Sage deftly creates an interesting world with often odd and humorous characters who have the ability to surprise the reader.
The plot structures of each story vary, and, to any fantasy reader’s great joy, she doesn’t use the same antagonist throughout every single book.
Some of the characters switch sides, and other, new bad guys emerge as the series progresses.
Within this book specifically is a prime example of a complicated plot structure and set of characters that break the far too often tread mold of fantasy novels.
In the third book of the series Silas Heap opens a magically closed cabinet containing the ghosts of an evil queen and her pet that lived 500 years before that time in the kingdom.
When this plan was acting out Septimus was pulled back 500 years in time to be forced to help a physik specialist in making many of the ingredients for the ancient queens plan.
Septimus's family and friends would have to help get him back from long ago in history.Septimus Heap is one of the main characters in this magic filled book.
In Physik we learn that Septimus Heap's 7 book cycle is not going to turn out like Harry Potter: a seven volume mystery collection about a good guy vs a Darke bad guy where the third volume is about time travel.
But I'm getting ahead of things …Unlike Harry Potter, these books are not mysteries, they are adventure stories wrapped with the trappings of mystery around them.
The ExtraOrdinary Wizard knows her Apprentice has traveled back through time, and that he is an integral, undeniable part of the past; the adventure involves rescuing Septimus from his current predicament.
