https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1026811.A_Bloody_Field_by_Shrewsbury
King Henry disgusted me and then snatched my sympathy: a man corrupted by his kingship, once a decent man, who does not recognise himself – I think he might be the subtlest portrait.These people are written in such depth, and an encounter between them has the excitements of a battle.
Psyches in conflict, whether it’s King Henry alone with his or these three in a breach.
I’ll even blame this person for letting a bit of potential-tragedy pressure leak away, at the culmination (right, the work-up-to-a-tragedy idea isn’t better than Shakespeare, and I’ll be sorry I said that).Never mind.
He supports his friend, Henry IV, but is disillusioned by what kind of king he becomes.Henry Percy is really the main character of this book, and he is characterized as the perfect knight, noble and pure.
Readers who are not familiar with the historical events surrounding this time period, as well as the branches of families involved, may get a little lost.
Honestly, how could I not fall in love with Pargeter's version of Henry "Hotspur" Percy?! He almost makes the Hunks in History list :-D.
Although Pargeter's style is not conducive to an easy quick reading and many would even call it dry, she is very good at weaving together character and setting so that the reader understands the motivations of these people who lived so long ago.
In this book, the reader comes to understand why Henry of Bolingbroke returns from exile to claim his own inheritance and in the process ends up taking the crown from Richard II.
If you are looking for light or easy historical fiction, then this book is not for you.
Languid and florid prose carry this novel of treachery, outrage, painful but necessary rebellion, and steadfast honor through to a sadly unfortunate but beautifully rendered conclusion.
Through this work we get to see the passions, loyalty, bravery, integrity, and tragedy of Hotspur, and how he came to be on that battlefield, the unfortunate lengths to which he was driven by the king to whom he had been so steadfast a supporter.
For me, its one weakness was in some of the battle scenes, where the languid and overly descriptive nature lent a slow motion quality to them, masking the horror of them.
It also helps to create a pool of calm into which the reader can escape from the hectic pace of modern life.Some reviews have mentioned the ‘romantic’ nature of the book, and it is true that this is an idealised picture of the late mediaeval world.
Faced with distance and coldness from the king, Hotspur becomes a father-figure and mentor to him.The invented character of Julian Parry, a Welsh woman in Shrewsbury, helps to bring out Hotspur’s role as chivalric defender of women, and shows his attractiveness to women as well as men.
A Bloody Field by Shrewsbury may be difficult going for those who are unfamiliar with the broad outline of this era because she carefully and plausibly fills the gaps in our knowledge by speculating on the motives of young prince Hal, Harry Hotspur, the Earl of Northumberland, Lord Dunbar, and Henry of Lancaster (Henry IV) who deposed Richard II.In addition to presenting intriguing and plausible motivations for the historical events, the book offers a bit of romantic dalliance in accord with “Hotspur’s” nickname and a few very nice turns of literary phrase like, “…the dim moving serpent of fine dust marked the approach of the marching men.” (p.
This one comes really close.The four main characters, Richard II, Henry of Bolingbroke (King Henry IV), Henry of Monmouth (later King Henry V) and Henry Percy (Hotspur) are brought to livid life and the reader's sensibilities are engaged through their relationships to each other, shifting loyalties and eventual demise.
Just like in reading "The Sunne in Spendour", the battle preparations caused this reader great anxiety and a strong emotional response at the end of the battle.
The text is written in the style of the times so sometimes difficult to grasp on first reading - but well worth the effort to digest.
You won't regret your efforts!
I tried 2 or 3 times to get into this one but morass of details just stymied me, so I abandoned it each time. I really liked her The Heaven Tree Trilogy but couldn't make it very far into this one. I do love that title, though.
Never mind the fact that the three Henrys in this book are not really the same people as they are in Shakespeare's play; I was predisposed to care intensely about these protagonists and their relationships because I find them so fascinating in Shakespeare.
Not to mention the prose so luminous that I frequently had to pause, slow down, and reread entire paragraphs (sometimes several times) just to enjoy their lyricism.I'm not saying everyone would have to value this same ingredients list in order to appreciate this book.
Pargeter's main concern is the relationships between Hotspur, Henry IV and Prince Henry: a fascinating triangle of loyalty, admiration, and affection held taught by tensions, jealousies, and anxieties.
Hotspur comes off as a deeply honorable man of intense if simple integrity, Henry IV as a man soured and corrupted by the consequences of his own ambition, and Prince Henry as a shrewd boy growing into a young man keenly aware of his moral and political responsibilities.
Pargeter has a keen eye for the complexities of character and action, and a good understanding of the political workings of the time.
It's a highly accurate but fictionalized version of the brief period between the murder of Richard II (we are spared the more lurid details, and told he was starved to death), and the ascent of Prince Hal to the English throne.
The characters are brilliantly-drawn, and Hotspur and Owen Glendower are as swashbuckling a pair as any in literature.If you did this period in Eng Lit (Shakespeare) at school, it will be like visiting old friends.
Pargeter writes colorfully and near-poetically, and the dénouement is harrowing, tragic, and beautiful.Damn near a five-star read.
From my boook review blog Rundpinne...."Pargeter writes an in-depth, vividly detailed and brilliantly executed book which admittedly can be a tad bit difficult to get into, but honestly it is worth the effort and pays off after about 40 pages or so, creating an intriguing web of loyalty, treachery and history. Pargeter has masterfully captured a way to portray the late 14th and early 15th century England and Wales in such a manner..."... The Full review may be read here: http://www.rundpinne.com/2010/11/book...
I certainly have a weakness for Ellis Peters, but her take on Richard III/Henry IV/Henry V/Henry Hotspur is positively fascinating. The minor characters are possibly even more compelling than Henry, Hal or Harry who are so well deliniated that you never forget which Henry you're with. This book took two starts as the first chapter and a half are a bit tricky if you've forgotten your history. By the end I felt sure I would never be able to read an actual history of the time without hearing the voices of Pargeter's Henries.
Great subject matter drowned by truly odious and repetitive purple prose, along with bizarrely flowery fawning over certain characters. I mean, Hotspur is a mediaeval coming of Christ as far as Pargeter is concerned, and the Welsh are a sacred race who can do no wrong. An historically questionable smear-job on Henry IV and a weird, off-putting not-adultery subplot involving a totally unnecessary and unappealing original character don't help.I'm very disappointed in this book.
This is fascinating reading using an olde style of English vocabulary and a terrific brother/son/nephew love story!! Hotspur is one of the best defined and admired characters I've ever encountered while the vanity of King Henry is, at the same time, so disturbing. To see this many people killed due to the "face" needed to be maintained is a horrible chapter of history!!
Edith Pargeter brings us a story that is often overlooked, which takes place in the early years of King Henry IV’s reign.
We are especially focused on the noble, honorable, Harry Hotspur, the flower of his generation’s chivalry.
Disappointed when Henry IV demanded he give up his hostage, the Earl of Douglas, from the hard-won battle of Homildon Hill, Harry’s disillusionment turned to outrage when he came to understand that the king’s whole reign was based on a lie.
Throughout the book Harry walked a fine line between his loyalty to the king and a new alliance with Owen Glendower, Prince of Wales.
This death sows seeds of doubt of the King's involvment in both Hotspur and Hal, which, when resolved, will mark the end of innocense for both.The year is 1402 when a young Welsh petitioner called Julian presents herself before the prince and his mentor in the border town of Shrewsbury on a family grievance.
King Henry gets married, trying to recover the peace of mind he has quite lost since acquiring the crown, Prince Hal is still battling with his feelings about his father, while Hotspur, upon discovering some ugly thruths about his once friend the King, decides to join the cause of his new Welsh friends and support his young nephew's claim to the throne of England.The year is 1403.
I did enjoy this novel about the relationship between three Henrys: Henry Bolingbroke (Henry IV of England), his son Prince Hal, and Harry Percy (Hotspur).
Bolingbroke and Hal are father and son who have never had an intimate knowledge of each other, so they have no trust.
Hotspur and Hal have a kind of foster-relationship which both struggle to protect and of which Bolingbroke is jealous.
The significant female character, Julian, is in love with the hero, but fearless and independent--a female counterpart to the hero.
I went into this book being familiar with the story of Henry Percy that Shakespeare presents to us in his play.
Yes, there was a lot of interior meditation going on among all of the characters but I think that it enhanced the drama of the events of the story.
It is not easy to align yourself completely with one side or the other because we can sympathize to an extent with each character.Hotspur does come across as the shining star of the story though at the expense of Henry and Hal, although the latter does come across much better than his father.
A young girl appears before the prince Henry with a petition and Hotspur urges him to help.
The girl, Julian, a non-hisotrical figure finds herself enamoured of Hotspur and it is a trial for him as he has a very happy marriage, and yet he is tempted but remains faithful.
when Hotspur joins the Welsh against Henry IV in a terrible battle on the fields of Shrewsbury on the borders of England and Wales.
The ending to me was sad, I had sympathy for Julian in her futile quest for Hotspurs love, and his gallant treatment of her when he was tempted himself.
The story of 3 Henrys: King Henry IV of England, his son Prince Hal (later Henry V), and Hotspur (Henry Percy) - of Shakespeare fame - and their shifting loyalties and ultimate clash at Shrewsbury. Surprisingly fast read. Kudos to Pargeter for taking a huge cast and keeping the story coherent - and shrewd and poignant. But perchance she put too many thoughts in her characters' heads? At times read like a psychoanalytical study.
One of the best books of historic fiction I've read. What made it so good was the way it shows the personal conflict inherent in so many political issues, even in the past. To see the connection between Hotspur and Henry was touching. To know that even a personal admiration could not set aside the cruel realities of the political games just made it a tough read. Well worth it.
Well done. Made me want to see/read Henry IV . Great story.
I didn't want to put this book down. It has been decades since reading Shakespeare and I enjoyed how Pargeter presented the characters and their relationships to each other.
This was just SO dry I couldn't take it after a while.
I also normally love reading Edith Pargeter/Ellis Peters novels.
The story moves on to the political intrigues of the time and how the new king's supporters start to realise that they may have been mistaken in putting Bolingbroke on the throne.There is a battle just outside Shrewsbury and the army that includes Harry 'Hotspur' Percy is waiting on the arrival of the Welsh to back them.
When one of the Welsh bring Hotspur his favourite sword, the village of Berwick is mentioned and it is soon realised that the battle outside Shrewsbury is near the aforementioned village.
The novel's subtitle, "A King, A Prince, and the Knight who betrayed their Dynasty" tells the gist of the story: the King is Henry IV, Henry Bolingbroke, who returns from exile to reclaim his lands confiscated by King Richard II; the Prince, his son (Prince Hal), has been in Richard's care (or custody, depending on the point of view) and has great affection for him but must be returned to his father, and be the dutiful son and future king; the Knight, is Henry Percy, (surnamed Hotspur) two years older than Henry and a comrade at arms who has helped to seat him on the throne of England, deposing Richard.Not constricted by time and place, as playwrights such as Shakespeare are, Pargeter has accurately introduced us to Prince Hal at age 11, when the story of his father's usurpation of the throne begins.

This was a very well written book, but also hard to read. It took more concentration than her easier Cadfael series and is not a quick read by any means. The main character, Hotspur, came alive in this telling as an honorable knight. This is a book I can recommend, but will likely not read again.
