https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72659.Never_Cry_Wolf
Mowat was proud that he never let facts get in the way of storytelling.
I hate it's made up from start to finish, yet the tagline on the cover says, "The incredible true story of life among Arctic wolves."Let's get one thing straight: Never Cry Wolf is fiction.
Mowat knew a lot about life in the Arctic, but he didn't know much about wolves.What he knew, he admired.
As such, it probably succeeded: it sank deep into the public consciousness of wolves, and surely helped the great turnaround of the wolf's image in the western world.
Mowat helped convince two generations that wolves are sweet-natured beasts with strong family values and a natural place in the ecosystem.
Mowat was sent to the Keewatin Barren Lands of Canada's Northwest Territory (an area where gray wolves and caribou shared habitat), ostensibly to "study" wolf-caribou interaction, but really with the pretty much baldly stated goal of bringing back a report that would "prove" the hunting lobby's contention and justify the policy they were advocating.The body of the book is a detailed account of his life that summer in the sub-arctic Canadian wild, and his close observations of the behavior and interactions of a pack of wolves whose den was quite close to his camp.
“We have doomed the wolf not for what it is, but for what we deliberately and mistakenly perceive it to be –the mythologized epitome of a savage ruthless killer – which is, in reality, no more than a reflected image of ourself.” ― Farley Mowat, Never Cry WolfOne of those books that if fun to review because my feelings about it change depending on how I look at it.
As a pure book of science reporting/writing, it is probably a noble failure.
As a influential environmental book, it is probably a wild success.It is controversial (STILL) and entertaining (STILL) and a piece of shit/scat and a piece of art.
My kids loved it for all the wrong reasons and I probably hate parts of it for all the wrong reasons.
In this 1963 book, naturalist Farley Mowat chronicles his experiences observing wolves in the Canadian barrenlands 1948-49.
However, as a scientist I'm put off by the embellishments Mowat throws in both to make the story more entertaining and to sway the reader toward his point of view (even though I hold similar beliefs).There are some non-fiction books where stretching the truth doesn't bother me.
But I'm not expecting a historical account of what happened on his trip -- one of the reasons I read Bryson is to get his impressions, rather than an absolutely factual account.With wildlife observation, on the other hand, I'd like an author to exercise some scientific rigor.
Crazy, but absolutely amazing. Mowat moves in next to a pack of wolves & observes them. His description of 'marking' his territory (with the help of several pots of tea) & how the alpha male managed the same feat with a single pass, showing far better control, is both funny & exhilarating. He's cut off a part of their path as his territory, sits there weaponless & participates with them at their level. That pretty much describes the book. It's fascinating.
I love the true story of a man who goes to study wolf behavior for the Canadian government and finds the unexpected.
I got very attached to those wolves, and learned a great deal about wolf behavior.
I don’t want to give away what happens, but want to say that although most of the story is very entertaining, told with great wit, and has many very humorous parts, I did cry also.
I’ve reread this book several times and never cease to enjoy it.
Readers 11 & up can enjoy this book.
This book was originally written in 1963 and my 30th anniversary edition had a new preface by the author in which he said his practice was "...never to allow facts to interfere with the truth...humor has a vital place in helping us understand our lives."So do we allow this statement to color our judgment of this book?
Did Mowat really go into the wild and live with wolves the way he said he did?
But I have read and thoroughly enjoyed so many other titles by this author that it doesn't matter.
I loved the story of his time observing wolves in the wild.
It's a must-read for anyone who likes the environment, north woods, wolves, &/or science as Mowat finds out that everything he'd been taught was wrong.In the 1950s, Mowat finds himself tasked to learn about the wolves of the north woods which are supposedly wiping out the caribou population.
In a series of hilarious events, he finds himself alone in the wilderness & takes up wolf watching.
What he finds is fantastic & completely at odds with common lore.
While he anthropomorphizes the wolves a little too much, he certainly does them justice & shows the real culprits.This was very well narrated & just a fantastic read in this format.
Written in the sixties, this book follows the year that naturalist Farley Mowat lived among the wolves.
Hired to observe these wolves up in Canada to see why they were killing caribou, Mowat uses humor, observation, and a bit of personification to narrate his observations of wolf behavior and what he learned from his time living in the wild.---I had to read this for my English class this semester.
It followed about four other books on natural systems that I did not care for at all, and I'm happy to say I actually really enjoyed this.
Πρόκειται για ένα καταπληκτικό μικρό βιβλίο, που από την μια σε ταξιδεύει, σε κάνει να νιώθεις όμορφα με τις περιπέτειες του συγγραφέα στην Αρκτική για την παρακολούθηση των λύκων και σου φτιάχνει το κέφι με το πολύ ωραίο και ευχάριστο χιούμορ του, από την άλλη όμως σε βάζει να σκέφτεσαι κάποια πράγματα για την καθημερινότητά και τον κόσμο γύρω σου, καθώς και για την αντιμετώπιση των ανθρώπων απέναντι στους λύκους και κατ'επέκταση απέναντι σε όλα τα ζώα και ολόκληρη την φύση.Ο Φάρλεϊ Μόατ, που την έζησε την ζωή του (1921-2014), ήταν ένας πασίγνωστος φυσιοδίφης, ένθερμος υποστηρικτής της προστασίας του περιβάλλοντος, περιπετειώδης χαρακτήρας και τολμηρός εξερευνητής.
In the course of gathering data about wolf behavior that is ostensibly designed to prove them to be senseless, bloodthirsty, excessively destructive killing machines -- and thus justifiable fodder for destruction themselves -- Mowat instead finds them to be social, highly evolved beings whose imprint on the environment is light and beneficial.Debate over the authenticity of this book has raged for decades, and it's hard to know how much of it is true or made up out of whole-cloth.
The message is clear: It's not wolves who are the problem, it's humans.
I felt as if I was there with him in the Arctic, getting to know the wolves and the indigenous people who lived there.I recently visited a wolf sanctuary in New York for my birthday.
I learned a lot about wolves, their behavior, and sadly, how humans destroyed wolf populations.
This book echoed a bit of what I learned at the sanctuary, and not going to lie, it depresses me.Would recommend this text to anyone who respects wildlife, particularly wolves.Note: Throughout the text, the word "Eskimo" is used.
“We have doomed the wolf not for what it is, but for what we deliberately and mistakenly perceive it to be...”Mowat, a naturalist/biologist is given an assignment: spend the summer in the subarctic and study wolf behavior, particularly, their feeding habits.
Mowat discovers one wolf family and follows them closely, for several months.
It is an eye-opening experience, giving him a deeper understanding and compassion for this misunderstood animal.This is a terrific read.
Funny and adventurous.
I have heard much of it is fictionalized, but as a story, it really resounds.
Surprisingly, it was written, about 50 years ago but still remains fresh and entertaining.
In this fictionalized account of Farley Mowat's summer time sojourn to the Arctic in the late 1940s, the harmful myths about wolves are broken and light is shed on their playful, family-oriented nature.
For example, on the night in spring when the ice began to run the river, causing it to over-flow its banks, Mowat supposedly got in his canoe in the middle of the night to pursue a supposedly stranded Husky pup.
Sadly, I am not one of the many thousands.That said, I should probably rate this book higher because it documents a time when little was known about wolves, aboriginal peoples and life in the high Arctic.
"Never Cry Wolf" is the type of book that I'd highly recommend those type of people to read.
He is extremely knowledgeable in his field when providing the reader with information, yet, when called for, he provides the perfect amount of sarcasm to create laughter and really hold the reader's attention.Overall, I feel Farley Mowat definitely earned my rating of 5 out of 5 stars for "Never Cry Wolf." Highly recommended.
George, Angeline, Uncle Albert, and the pups allowed Mowat to create such a beautiful and cheeky narration, on both the emotional and scientific levels.
In fact, the little wolf den at Wolf House Bay seemed to be teeming with more humanity and humor than all of the novel's human characters combined.
This was a great book for those needing a little reminder of our place IN this world, not just ON this world.
only to be excluded, at the end, by my own self." - Farley Mowat
I have read this book before, I loved it then and I love it now.
I didn't grow up around hunting or around wolves so this book had a profound impact on the way I viewed both.
I've always had a love of animals and nature so I was a natural to find this book inspiring, wonderful and incredibly sad.
For a book I haven't read in about 30 years I had remarkable recall of most of the scenes.
That is probably because of the sense of humor and the pathos with which Farley Mowat writes, it is a beautiful book.
OK, if it is not I love it anyway.
"We have doomed the wolf not for what it is but for what we deliberately and mistakenly perceive it to be: The mythologized epitome of a savage, ruthless killer—Which is, in reality, not more than the reflected image of ourselves. We have made it the scapewolf for our own sins."-From the preface (first published in 1963, and no less true today/perpetually)One of the best and most visual and visceral books I've read in a long time. Also, quite amusing. Mowat's voice feels so kindred, and I'm so thankful for it. A must-read/naturalist need, for sure.
Very funny and interesting because it is a (probably...) true story, although there is some discussion on that part. I agree with the writer though, sometimes a non scientific way of writing about a species is much more accurate and interesting than an actual scientific report. I hope that one day humans will stop being savages and allow the wolf some more space in the world again, as they truly are amazing creatures.
And I suspect that this was probably one way Farley managed to survive and undermine the Idiots running his Government Department.
even if I've said it before.You will just LOVE and be AMAZED by the wolves.And I wonder sometimes if Farley lied about them to save them.I would back him ALL the Way .P.S. I am NOW trying to discover what it was exactly that Farley has been accused of!!!I SHALL RETURN.
Never Cry Wolf is Farley Mowat’s personal account of his observation of wolves in subarctic north Canada.
I liked Mowat’s writing style and tone throughout, just how he presents himself as a regular guy and personable.
He comes across very personable, like the kind of guy that you could share stories with while having drinks, as he calls out to man behind the counter, “Another round of Wolf Juice!” The most rewarding aspect of Never Cry Wolf is Mowat’s account of his experiences as he gets closer to the wolves.
Whatever block was in my brain that made me look confusedly at the title and wonder how else it could be read, suddenly fell away as I sadly turned the last page, leaving behind the epiphany that flashed into my brain as I thought of "The Boy Who Cried Wolf," and how the author here talked of all these wildlife managers in North American governments who were blaming the fall in caribou population on the wolves while encouraging irresponsible hunting behavior from adventure-mad trophy hunters who wanted the scheduled adventure and excitement minus the real hardship of the wilderness and the deeper understanding linked to that.
In introducing one of the studies he was required to undertake while in the north: "Because of the importance attached to scatology in Ottawa...."Having worked in two government departments in Ottawa in my studentness (Energy Mines & Resources and the MOD), I can relate.
I also mean to check out The Farfarers: A New History of North America though I have a vague idea that this is where he lost it.In any case he should be better known outside of Canada than he is, imho.
The writer clearly loves his subject and his idealism is encountered constantly without feeling heavy handed or naive.Each wolf in this story is a distinct character and the narrator presents each challenge playfully without diminishing the danger present.
While these repeated statements, many of which are articulate, cause a dilemma for the reader it doesn't take away from the experience of reading the book.Perhaps the 'true life story' from the front cover needs to be banished?
Perhaps Mowat was writing as Dante did, making himself a character in his journey toward universal discovery?Either way, the book is good and worth your time.
What I didn't know is that Farley Mowat's Never Cry Wolf would be so pro-Farley-Mowat.I wasn't prepared for the ego, for the use of the vehicle of literature (and wolves) to so firmly slap its author on the back, over and over and over and over and over...
But honestly, it's this kind of rubbish that puts high school students off of CanLit, and for that I am deeply disturbed.
I hope no teacher ever again requires her/his student to wade through this when there are so many great Canadian authors and novels!
This is my second book by Farley Mowat and I must admit that I like his style.
He never fails to find the humour in life.
There is some debate about the veracity of the book's content, and I've even seen it described as fiction.
In a 2012 interview with The Toronto Star, Mowat himself described it as "subjective nonfiction" and I'm happy with that.
In fact, that's what most of the nonfiction published nowadays seems to be.
The truth is, I don't really care if the story is factual or not.
I learned more about wolves and had a laugh in the process.
While I love wolves and appreciate Mowat's passion on their behalf, there's something off-putting about his writing style.
I'm not sure if it's the way he constructs the narrative (so that he himself is the star rather than the wolves) or his tone (which I felt, even at the age of 11, was rather smug and self-satisfied), but I found myself profoundly irritated throughout.
It turns out he has a habit of "never let[ting] the facts get in the way of the truth" and that the events he recounts in the book may have been largely fabricated, which might explain some of the negative feelings his writing stirred up in me.
I enjoyed reading this book.
It is the story of a man who goes to study the arctic wolves.
He spends time with them and comes to understand who they really are.
He debunks the myth that the wolves were destroying the caribou (they were destroyed by careless hunters.) He meets a guy who can speak the wolf language -- I liked that part.
Overall I would consider it an eye-opening story.
It represents what I feel to be true and correct environmentalism: the ability to do an in-depth study sufficient that you can work with the environment rather than around it.
Have you ever read a non fiction book that is written in a way that makes it feel like it is more fictionalized then the factual truth? This book might be one of those, I have no doubt that the wolf way of living is as described by Mowat, real and factual but, I can see that he might have embellished the story telling part of his experience. Nevertheless, this was an exceptionally enjoyable read.Continue reading the review here https://spreadingthefeast102.wordpres...
