https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/683096.My_60_Memorable_Games
You'd better do something about it!The short-list for "greatest chess player of all time" only has two names: Fischer and Kasparov.
Before Fischer, people only ever put wins in their game collections, and entitled them "So-and-So's Best Games".
Fischer knew he was the best, so he prioritized interesting games, even if there were a few he didn't win.
He also has the equally unpleasant loss to Geller, where they got into a complicated middle-game position with competing attacks, and Fischer missed a forced win.
Most people would just have tried to forget these games, not wanted to tell the whole world about them.Of course, most of the games are wins.
And they run so deep, he really ain't gotta do shit.Bodie: Like your uncle.
D'Angelo: Yeah, like my uncle.
Aright, what about them little baldheaded bitches right there?D'Angelo: These right here, these are the pawns.
D'Angelo: It ain't like that.
Now, if the pawn make it all the way down to the other dude's side, he get to be queen.
And like I said, the queen ain't no bitch.
D'Angelo: If you catch the other dude's king and trap it, then you win.Bodie: Aright, but if I make it to the end, I'm top dog.
D'Angelo: Nah, yo, it ain't like that.
Bobby Fischer was brilliant at chess, I don't think many would argue with this statement.
My 60 Memorable Games allows the reader peer inside the mind of a genius.
Fischer was often able to anticipate 7 moves into the future which is not a feat many mortals can lay claim to.
I enjoyed his annotated analysis on his moves and motives in the games, I liked the descriptions, including the graphics, which made it easy to see the game play out without having super human abilities as it sometimes appears Fischer has throughout this fun and captivating read.
A great book with 60 great chess games and insights/annotations , from one of the greatest, or probably, the greatest chess player of all time!
Not only was Bobby Fischer a phenomenal chess genius, he is the most interesting, eccentric and enigmatic of all the great chess players.
In this book Fischer shares with us 60 favourite games of his, with detailed analysis and annotation with great comments on all the critical and interesting parts of the games.
I know that I don't and will never have a 100th of his playing strength and understanding of the game, but that doesn't stop me from appreciating great chess games!!
He is a very high genius who as a young man exploded on the chess scene like a supernova.
He won the US Chess Championships at the age of 14, an amazing feat by itself but only the beginning.He is best known for his winning the World Championship from Boris Spassky in the 1970's.
Winning Chess tournaments where there were so many Russians involved was difficult especially because to put it nicely, the Russians would work as a team to help their designated leaders win.
Collaboration on adjourned games was common.Bobby Fischer's accomplishment in winning the world championship in this setting is a testament to his brilliance and his perseverance.
Bobby played to win ....
That's Mike Tyson at his imperious best, not the ear-chewer of later declining times.But...
You have to admit that he is not an easy person to love.
That same monomania that made him a fearsome opponent also made him an uncomfortable person to live with.
The jury is still out on whether this was a deliberate attempt to unnerve Spassky, a legitimate desire to improve playing conditions or a symptom of Fischer's inner demons.
Fischer is absolutely idolised by some of his countrymen.
This is Fischer at his best.
A chess book that you simply have to own, whether you are a Fischer fan or not.
A bit light on narration/explanation, heavy on alternate lines, which wasn't what I was looking for. One could probably find these games with similar annotation online, but I'm sure I'll end up returning to this.
"My 60 Memorable Games" was written while Bobby Fischer was still on his steep ascent to the world-champion title -- and long before the slide into madness that ended with his death in January.
But Fischer was never content with victory alone; he aimed to inflict agony on his opponents -- in his own words, "I like the moment when I break a man's ego." Where did such ferocity come from?
Fischer, who never knew his own father, once explained that "children who grow up without a parent become wolves."

We all know that Bobby Fischer was a great chess player.
This book reveals that he was a talented writer as well.
His analyses are rock-solid.
As far as I know, these have stood the test of time.
His narrative of the games is fascinating as well.
Often he describes the setting of the game and gives personal insights into his opponents.While Mr. Fischer has a well-deserved reputation for arrogance, this book reveals an uncharacteristic humility.
Normally grandmasters only highlight their most brilliant wins.This is a good book for the chess enthusiast.
It is interesting look into a brilliant chess mind.
What talent, what ego. Coolest things about the games: he included three losses, he won a “magic” game where they still haven’t found that his opponent made an error yet still lost, zugzwang is the perilous equilibrium where you’re fine right now, but any move you make will lead to disastrous consequences, he often fianchettoed his bishop, and finally, he put together a broad pawn center so that the pieces could hide behind them and then swing out like real soldiers behind shields.
Fischer at his best! An amazing book that is a must read for all chess players! There is a reason why many consider this one of the best chess books ever written. Amazing games and amazing analysis. Lets you get inside the head of a genius.
oh my god very nice book
One of the best annotated game collections.
arrogant boy teaches chess brilliantly lol
Frank, witty annotations.Players of any strength can gain something from playing over these games.A nice selection of games - yes, they are memorable!
I have the first edition, its a great chess book if you wish to learn how to attack and think on your feet. If you are a person that just wishes to memorize lines then there are better books. This book goes well with the Art of Attack. Booby is one of my favourite players and this style of play suits my play. The old notation is a drag, but I use the book with chessbase. This book really makes you feel like you are talking to fischer - he writes what he thinks - end of :-)
Obviously just for chess enthusiasts.Fischer was US Champion at 17, and was the first player outside of Russia to win the World Title in1969.Easy to read, very instructive-written by Fischer himself.
ChessRead or re-read anew some great games. What can one discover by watching a World Chess Champion? Read and find out. Always nice to look down an already blazed trail and try to find new meanings and ways...
one of the most essential chess books to own, even if somewhat outdated now. inside the mind of a child prodigy who followed a straight line to world champion, then descended into madness and delusion. this presents him at his lucid best.
ok
I really enjoyed seeing how one of the greatest of all time annotated 60 of his best chess games
Play through this and see chess brilliance at its finest, seriously Fischer was an alien......
Simply great!
Classic chess book now out in algebraic notation. If you only own one chess book then you should get out more.
good
His masterpiece.
Perhaps the greatest chess book ever written - one of the greatest ever chess players explains his sixty best games. An essential book.
Just one word for the chess enthusiasts if you havent read this one"You mad, Bro?" :D
maybe the best and deepest chess book ever
