https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81912.Human_Action
It is usually subtle and underlying rather than something that is consciously felt, and I think von Mises put his finger on this quality of experience, and it was a mark of his genius to do so and to build his analysis from it.Part 1 of the book, the first 140 or so pages, deals only with the theory of human action and the categories intimately associated with it, such as time and uncertainty.
The Buddha taught liberation from that unease; von Mises is only teaching us how to get along with it.But in all, my considered opinion is that Human Action is one of the greatest works of literature of all time.
But most of us will be cautious in what we do, avoiding as much risk as possible in our attempt to get what we want.Certain individuals, the entrepreneurs, however, seek out risk when they see an opportunity to obtain capital (the materials needed to produce something) at a total cost less than the price that can be obtained by selling the final product - what we call profit.
There cannot be a serious conversation about economics without Mise's. Human Action is the definition of Free Market and delivers the goods for a just economy while cutting down to size any alternative economic system.This is a "must read in your lifetime" book. The sooner the better
But it was Mises who not only showed, but--to my mind--proved economics has everything to do with my life; because economics doesn't exist without people behaving as people.Whimsical example:If you're in the habit of buying a pound of Brazilian coffee for $1 every week, then you hear on the news that an unexpected freeze has hit Brazil, with analysts expecting Brazilian coffee exports to drop, and subsequently Brazilian coffee prices worldwide to rise--what do you do?
Do you wait until next week to buy as much coffee for twice the price?
Then why do people hate economics?
It enhanced my appreciation of the beautiful way in which life orders itself.In the first section of this masterwork, Mises gets right down to laying a solid epistemological and methodological foundation for the study of the social sciences.
In the face of the praxeological base of Mises' theoretical work, the criticisms leveled against them usually seem pretty shallow and lacking in any real attempt to understand the fundamental concepts of praxeology.Five years ago if you told me I would be as fascinated by an economics book as I was by Human Action, I would have had a good hearty laugh.

The best work on economics ever written. If Mises had been an anarchist he'd have been perfect.
To the modern reader, this is probably a three star book (if they are economics enthusiasts), but given that it was written the 1930s-40's, it gets four starts for it's importance at the time.
I like his argument that "rational" or "irrational" is an inappropriate way to think of human action in the study of economics.
Instead he contends that human action is based on the removal of uneasiness and must always be speculative.
The book is full of statements like that, in which Mises claims no proof is needed as the statement must be true.
I think the Austrian economics by itself would not have provided the economic prosperity we have experienced until 2000.
Austrian economics expects people to have a long term perspective for future growth and based our recent experiences this is highly unlikely.
it seems there are times when both theory's would work better than what we have done...Hayek's theory is aged idea mostly as an opposition to centralized planning & Russian style Communism....
Chinese style communism is certainly different in theory and practice.
Most American's have no idea about any of this, beyond what the cable new has told them to think...
If you look from a probabilistic world view, you see that each step he takes away from an empirical fact introduces uncertainty.
Given the length of this book, you can make a mathematical argument that the certainty of the authors conclusions are wrong, would approach 100% given the methodology.
He makes all kinds of assertions about the basic nature of man, and human prehistory, which I don't believe line up with either contemporary or modern understandings of either subject.
What troubles me, is that I see so much of modern thought based on these assumptions about the nature of man.
In fact, if Mises' approach is indeed correct, this is undoubtedly one of the most important books in the history of human civilization.
In 'Human Action' Mises describes an a priori approach to the social sciences which he terms "praxeology".
Although most of the book deals with the arm of praxeology specific to economics("catallactics") Mises repeatedly reminds the reader that praxeological theory can be applied to every aspect of human action.
The implications of Mises' work are crystal clear to anyone who reads it.
My best guess is that number historical, political, unfortunate coincidences prevented Mises' praxeological theory from ever receiving the level of scholarly scrutiny it deserves.
Human Action will not answer every problem you see with free markets, but I bet you will come away enriched, intrigued, and amazed, at how logical and consistent, how in touch with reality, how persuasive Mises is.Go ahead, try it, see what you think.
Each group was wonderful.Oh, one more thing: get a copy of the book "Mises Made Easier" by Percy Greaves to have handy while you read Human Action.
It is a glossary of the tough or obscure terms in Human Action and most of the other books by Mises.
Ludwig von Mises is a god among free-market capitalist / libertarians.
Since conservatives now seem to think being an intellectual is a bad thing, I had to go back a few decades in the hopes of reading a real thinker from the right.
He stated at the beginning that he wasn't interested in morality or what we should do, but only with what works economically.
Economics is an incredibly complex network of human actions which is almost impossible to understand, according to von Mises.
I think he failed to realize that he did not actually remove morality from his work, but it only seemed to apply to the rich.
Von Mises makes a case for laissez-faire captialism that is insightful and (I guess, I'm no logician) consistent.
His main point is that economics is like logic or mathematics, an abstract law that requires discovery through careful reasoning, and that trying to live without adjusting one's behavior to this reality produces frustration and failure.
Sometimes he would vary this phrase to say "violent oppression." Von Mises thinks government is necessary to support social cooperation (the market), but he relentlessly refers to government in these terms.
As he wrote 70 years ago, we live in an age of interventionism and Keynesianism, so his unpopular theories are suppressed or rejected by the establishment.
It is definitely highly philosophical and reminded me of reading Cornelius Van Til. For example, epistemological (how we know what we know) issues regarding human action affect our perceptions of the actions and their value on the free market.
Honestly, much of it went over my head as I tried to grapple with it because he doesn’t use all that many practical examples.However, at a philosophical level, it provides a strong defense of the type of thinking that leads to balanced free-market economics and away from statist tyranny.I’ll try to offer more thoughts as I wrestle through this more.
Perhaps I will understand this book better as I understand economics more.
my brain hurts. this book is intense.
This is and Man, Economy, and State by Murray N. Rothbard are works of genius!
Notable only now for ideological and historical reasons.
Mises advances Praxeology, an economic doctrine emerging from the Classical School when it was realized that human action and not the inherent value of an object is what drove economics (Mises 3).
And this leads to the key gain of the Austrian school: the doctrine of marginal utility.
The marginal utility of a good decreases as its supply increases.
Whenever I get a good, I devote it to the most important end.
As I get more goods, I devote them to lesser ends.
It explains human action in such terms that one reaches a true understanding of society and politics.Prof.von Mises distinguished himself by accurately predicting the outcome of various policies and ideologies.In 1922, he wrote his "Gemeinwirtschaft" (Socialism), in which he predicted the fate of the recently founded USSR, including the economic collapse, the famines, the dictatorship, the oppression, mass murder and ultimate collapse that were to come, based on only ONE assumption: that they would act exactly according to their stated principles, i.e. that they would try to implement true communism.In January 1929, he was the ONLY economist who predicted the coming market crash, based on the fact that the Fed had flooded the markets with fiat money that totally distorted market information and led to the destruction of capital.He denounced the Nazis' economic policies as well and pointed out how their much hyped, publicized successes were nothing but lies.He also predicted the failure of the British and American implementation of Keynesian "economics".Shortly before the Nazis took over Austria, he moved to Geneva, Switzerland, where he was teaching at the university for a few years, then moved on to the US, as he feared that even Switzerland might not be safe.
One of the most insightful books on economics I've ever read. It contains a lot of conclusions which it took me some time to achieve on my own, and than some more.Even through it's rather long, this is one of the books I think that everybody should read.
Great book. Another must-read for anyone intrested in Austian economics. It is a bit dry at times. But, if that's a surprise to you,you probably shouldn't be reading this. Mises is a favorite of mine, so I really had a heard time writting that last part.
5 star massive treatise on economic principles from the founder of the Austrian school of economics.

Mises takes a bottom up approach of economics.
He looks at humans in the light of their existence in a surprisingly philosophical perspective.
He sees humans as organic beings living in the shadow of death who out of necessity of their need to continue existing for as long as possible must acquire certain things...
If you are interested in economics, this is a very good introductory text.
Obviously for a more balanced view you should read texts that argue for the opposite conclusions and all things in between, but Im pretty sure this isnt a bad place to start framing your view of the science of human transaction, or rather, human action.
“Nobody is in a position to decree what should make a fellow man happier.”“The Market economy is the social system of the division of labor under private ownership of the means of production.
What pressure is needed to impel an individual to contribute his share to the cooperative effort of production is exercised by the price structure of the market.
Now in the market economy this alleged dualism of two independent processes, that of production and that of distribution, does not exist.
The yardstick to be applied is always the yardstick of reason." -Ludwig von Mises, Human Action"There is, of course, no guarantee that the voters will entrust the office to the most competent candidate.
A minority will never win lasting success by other means."-Ludwig von Mises, Human Action"Liberalism is rationalistic.
But then there is no hope left for mankind's future."-Ludwig von Mises, Human Action"The tremendous progress of technological methods...and the resulting increase in wealth and welfare were feasible only through...those liberal policies which were the practical teachings of economics.
They unwittingly support the case of censorship, inquisition, religious intolerance, and the persecution of dissenters." -Ludwig Von Mises, Human Action
Human Action: a Treatise on Economics by Ludwig von Mises represents the last of the great Austrian Economists.
Certainly the national defense, which he considers an impossibility without a government funded by taxes as pure liberalism (read: libertarianism) is inherently pacifistic [in his view].Second, Mises is not anti-positivistic.
For Mises economic knowledge was not something you used for government action, rather it was an corrective mechanism for diagnosing how governments screw up.
This book covered the philosophy and practical nature of economics, and he worked towards tackling the major issues of his day.
Quotes I want to remember that are central to his economic and political philosophy:On Economics:"Economics is not about goods and services, it is about the actions of living men."On Felt Uneasiness:"Strictly speaking the end, goal or aim of any action is always the relief from a felt uneasiness." - p92 "What acting man wants to know is how he must employ the available means for the best possible - the most economic- removal of felt uneasiness." p208"The only method of dealing with the problems of action is to conceive that action ultimately aims at bringing about a state of affairs in which there is no longer any action, whether because all uneasiness has been removed or because any further removal of felt uneasiness is out of the question.
Those who are asking for more government interference are asking ultimately for more compulsion and less freedom."Also interesting was his discussion the epistomological problems of human action (i.e. history) found around pages 32-60ish.
But I found Mises's praxeology to be a surprisingly valuable, appropriate, and probably under-utilized lens for looking at economics as a study of purposeful human action.
One cannot avoid discussing dynamics when using a praxeological view, on the other hand, and I found this refreshing.I think Human Action is a particularly good read for someone with a background like my own - having a decent knowledge of modern economics and a general interest in history and political philosophy to boot.
