https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69136.The_Book_of_Lost_Things
This is kind of a deceptive book. It seems like it could be young adult in tone at first but it is NOT young adult. It's an adult urban fantasy starring a child. Very cool and immersive, and a bit dark. Hell, a LOT dark sometimes, haha. The lore is very cool, you can tell that the author really loves folklore and all the elements of the world are interesting and believable. Worth checking out if you like magical realism and a lot of bite to your fairy tales.
Rumpelstiltskin…aka “the Crooked Man” is one seriously scary and diabolical CREEPSTER.  Trust me, after reading this book, the above image of a sadistic, powerful, child-slaughtering MOFO will forever displace your previous perception of old Rumpy being nothing more than a half pint, mischievous prankster with ethical deficiencies… …a Disney tale this is not. …a light, comforting “happily ever after” children’s story this is not. However, what this story is….is beautifully written, richly charac
PLOT SUMMARY:Set in England at the outbreak of WWII, young David loves books and stories.
David is given the room of Rose’s uncle, Jonathan Tulvey, who shared David’s love of books and stories.
He spends more and more time among the old books which begin to whisper to him and David starts to witness strange occurrences, including the appearance of a “crooked man” watching him.
Eventually David finds himself in another world where dark, grim versions of classic fairy tale characters exist but are nothing like the way they are normally portrayed.

Part fairy tale and part psychological study, I found this to be an engrossing and powerful book. Recommend to everybody, particularly those who have used reading and books to get themselves through difficult times, especially in childhood.I don't look at this book the way some readers apparently have: as sci-fi or fantasy, but instead see it as showing the redemptive power of books and stories in children's and adults' lives. And as an account of one boy's inner life and imagination.I'm not sure which way the author intended it, but it’s a wonderful coming of age story.
It created a magical and fairytale atmosphere and pulled me right in.
One thing is for sure, John Connolly can write.A few chapters in, when the main character left reality for the parallel fantasy world, I wasn't sure this magical atmosphere would hold.
Suddenly too many things happened at once, the pace increased and new characters were introduced almost every page.Luckily, Connolly managed to keep the atmosphere from crumbling and built an incredible and dark tale, based on many familiar characters and stories from popular fairytales.
Extraordinary book, really special.Story about the seven dwarves made me laugh :-)Magical book! I have my eyes on Nocturnes now of Connolly.
Deep in his depression, he begins to hear voices coming out of the books he and his mum used to read together.
That is when he first sees the Crooked Man. One late night, David hears his mum's voice calling out to him, asking him to come rescue her from something horrible.
Now, David has to find his way back by searching for the Book of Lost things with the help of the Woodsman and the brave Knight Roland, while escaping the werewolves and the ever-lurking Crooked Man, who follows him everywhere he goes.-------------------------------------------------------------------Another novel to have been mistakenly classified as a children's story, the Book of Lost Things, is like a roller-coaster ride inside a scary, haunted house filled with your deepest, darkest nightmares involving live, flesh-eating monsters and blood.
*Didn't like this book as much but it did motivate me to sketch*Take all your favourite fairy tales from your childhood(from odd mixture of Wizard of Oz to Labyrinth to The Never Ending Story to the most sadistic part of Grimm's Fairy Tales), now throw in some well known poems and mix together with a story of a child coming to terms with the death of a parent.
But my biggest grouch was with the predictable and stiff writing.
I almost laughed aloud when I read sentences along the lines of:
Whatever happened to the old-fashioned ‘show, don't tell’ rule of writing?
Overall it was an Okay and forgettable read.
Fugues are usually precipitated by a stressful episode.in world war 2-era england, young David loses his mother after a lingering illness and begins to experience strange dissociative episodes, often involving the sounds of books whispering to him and usually ending with him falling into unconsciousness.
soon enough, his father finds a new wife named Rose - a nurse at his mother's hospice - and David finds himself with a stepmother and an infant half-brother.
after the new family moves out of london to Rose's country home in order to escape german bombers, David realizes a shadowy, crooked figure has sinister designs on him and his brother.
Since I posted this way back in 2008, a (very) small minority of this book's fans have taken my review personally and have written some very long, very insulting responses telling me why I'm wrong.
"Lost Things" centers on David, a boy whose mother dies and whose father remarries and has a second child, leaving David to bicker bitterly with his new stepmother while trying to avoid anxiety attacks that leave him blacked out and feverish.
The second chapter focuses on the father's remarriage and David's anxiety attacks leading the reader to believe, perhaps, this is the focus of the story - it is not.
The young man, David, journeys through the crack and falls into a land that is fairy-tale twisted.
They make better sport, and better trophies for my wall, for they are beautiful."A wonderful, traditional format; journey to Oz and to home, but Connolly lets it unwind more than a bit toward the end, as he indulges in descriptions of The Crooked Man's evil deeds, in a way that really doesn't matter to the story, and just serves to point out the horrors of the world.
(hide spoiler)]One of the most beautiful, happiest passages in the book:"Stories were different, though: they came alive in the telling.
“For in every adult there dwells the child that was, and in every child there lies the adult that will be.”  John Connolly’s  The Book of Lost Things  is a tale that reflects everyone’s story of growing up. Some would say that it’s a story of losing one’s innocence, but are we ever really innocent? Through time we have come to develop feelings of grief, rage, hatred, and jealousy. These are some of the things that eat the pure off of us. At some point, we have all become the things we feared t
This is the story of how David overcame his monsters.As a young boy, David lost his mother, and his only means of coping up with his grief was reading, an interest he got from her.
At first, I was not too thrilled to start reading it due to the synopsis at the back of the book.
In it are very familiar tales that were distorted to suit the book’s eeriness, constructing a twisted realm parallel to David’s reality.David was a child at the beginning of the story, and you could really visualize how his character developed.
4 stars to John Connolly's The Book of Lost Things. I added this to my "To Read" list sometime in 2015 as it reminded me a little bit of the "Once Upon a Time" TV series which I love. And it didn't disappoint! Story A young adult novel focusing on a young boy's quest to fit in his earthly world and survive in his fantasy world in 1940's England. Young David (around 10) has suffered a lot as a boy. His mother dies early, his father remarries quickly. He is shy and doesn't venture much out of his
When he's forced to accept his new stepmother and then his young half-brother, David mysteriously disappears into his books through a realm in secret sunken garden where he's immediately thrown into fairy tale land.
He must find a way out but quickly learns the fairy tales all have a dark side in this universe, and he's not the first to be transported to the new world from his old world.
1. Not enough of the fairy tales are included to truly feel like you've shown us the full picture of this world.
On the surface, this book is perfect for me as it combines many of my favourite things: fairy tales, hidden worlds, adult books with children as the lenses through which to see these hidden worlds, re-tellings, a sibling relationship that feels real, imaginative world building and and and.Don't get me wrong, this book was perfectly alright; it is very readable and well-plotted.
The world felt very familiar to me and as such never completely original (I know that originality wasn't the point, I still think it could have been fresher).So yeah, kind of dissappointed but still a very readable book.First sentence: Once upon a time - for that is how all stories should begin - there was a boy who lost his mother.
“For in every adult there dwells the child that was, and in every child there lies the adult that will be.” ― John Connolly,  I love the cover of this book, isn't it so gorgeous ??This book is my favorite book of all time. I love getting back to it every once in a while and reread few passages, i feel it pulling me back in, tempting me to dive in its beautiful world of adventures once again. so finally i decided to post my thoughts about it.One thing you should know about me, is that I LOVE fai
so finally i decided to post my thoughts about it.One thing you should know about me, is that I LOVE fairy-tales, especially the ones that contain a dark twist.
this book gave me everything.World Building :The world that the author created was absolutely mesmerizing, the world building was impeccable and so well thought of, the writing style is easy to get lost into, I actually felt like i was there, you could feel the magic around you, the air of that forest, and the howling of the wolves, it was detailed enough that you can see the place clearly but not too much that it became boring.
Fable like, but not YA.John Connolly’s 2006 revisionist fantasy will draw many comparisons due to it’s fable / mythical themes.
Most notably will be a comparison to CS Lewis’ Narnia books since this is set in England during WWII and our young protagonist finds his way into an alternate world.
It’s alternate fairy tales will also draw comparison to both Gregory Maguire and L.
The urban fantasy parts made me also think of Charles de Lint’s fine work.Because of the youthful hero and the fable like tone, some readers may call it YA, but I would amend to highlight young ADULT.
Held within this book are not the fairy tales I heard as a child.
They surely would have messed me up if I had.
Connolly creates something wholly fresh by weaving a new fantasy with old tales placed in the mix – with a twist that is twisted mind you.
It is the story of David lost in another land, and his journey to find a way home.4 stars for scaring the child in me…for making me wonder, cringe and also laugh as an adult reader…for the adventure of it, and the heartfelt story inside all of this.
That is not always the case, and sometimes authors' sales pitches and literary critics' snotty analyses can even ruin stories completely.Not in this case!A hybrid between coming of age in difficult times and pure fantasy delight, full of fractured fairytales and real problems to be dealt with, this is a perfect example of young adult fiction for all ages.
He is like the siblings in Narnia, or like Bastian Balthasar Bux in The Neverending Story - a child immersed in fiction, growing ready to face the real world by dealing with literary adventures.A great class novel for Middle School!
Καταπληκτικό! Τελικά... αυτό το "ζωή σαν παραμύθι", ίσως να μην είναι τόσο υπέροχο όσο νομίζουμε!
Coming off from reading Lord of The Flies, I can definitely see some underlining similarities in both of them in the sense that both authors chose to use children to get their points across in a dark deeply disturbing way. Both backgrounds were hostile and unnerving and some imagery will stay with me for a while. “For in every adult there dwells the child that was, and in every child there lies the adult that will be.” The book follows David a young boy who is trying to cope with a family traged
The book follows David a young boy who is trying to cope with a family tragedy by diving into stories and escaping in them but soon he is thrown into this dark version of familiar fairy tales and as he tries to find a way back to his world he comes across challenges that will redefine his belief in happily ever afterAs always I had fun reading this book and discussing it with 
I expected a light-hearted story with a fun little adventure but instead, I got something deliciously dark.
A fairytale turned nightmare.
The twisted and scary parts of the story are not something I would recommend to someone of that age though.
There are plenty of well-known fairytales mentioned that make it fun for someone who has been exposed to them over the years, but they have been turned into their nightmare version.
You have to read in order to really appreciate this crazy storyline hahaI enjoyed a lot and highly recommend this to people who are in for a dark, twisted, and edgy version of a fairytale retelling.
David is a twelve year old boy who is grieving the loss of his mother and struggling to accept the upheaval of his life.
His love of books, instilled in him early on by his mother, leads him to an adventure both wondrous and terrifying, during which he will learn to face his fears, find his strength, and finally come to terms with how he really feels.
There are some super creepy, skeevy, scary moments here that make me wonder how a twelve year old would feel reading it, but perhaps I am underestimating today’s young readers.
Read this book without really knowing too much about it.
Just that other reviewers were impressed and it centered around a little boy and some dark versions of fairy tales that I had grown up on.Wow.Wow.wow.wow.That is what I have to say when I got to the last page.It was a really really great story.
10 year old boy who loves to read, loses his mother, hates his new stepmother and stepbrother....
Evil lurks around every corner.....If you havent bought this book and read it yet, you really must.
Its a timeless tale, written for grownups, but can be read aloud to your childern as well.
this was fine. i think i expected it to be a little more grown-up than it was. in many ways i am a huge infant, but not so much in my reading, unless its reeeally young reader picture books. but this had some nice reimaginings of traditional fairy tales, and it certainly doesnt take long to read, so i recommend to those adults that are already reading the harry potters and twilights. you babies!
Oh wow , what can I say? This book destroyed me, this book surpassed my expectations for it , I picked this up thinking it was going to be just a vapid book but boy this it's so much more that it's blurb would let you to believe. Think Grimm brothers, Disney , folk and fairy tales , ya modern literature (I'll compare it to a monster calls) and you will get a glimpse at the work that went behind this book. Then ending would make you feel all the feelings ..... I will not soon forget this book!!!
And won't let you go until it has its way with you.In Book of Lost Things, John Conolly collected fragments of my beloved bed time stories,twisted them so crookedly,and made them ornaments to a dark,beautiful world of his own.
You know he doesn't like it when you do.In a prose that is both rich and cunning, Conolly indulgently and unhurriedly tells the story of young, grudge-holding, selfish,and book-obsessed David who entered a crack in the wall of a sunken garden in hopes of gaining back everything that he's lost.
But still we are a bit startled to encounter them here,in The Book of Lost Things and the little fairy stories in it.
Ο μοναδικός λόγος που δεν του έβαλα 5 αστεράκια, αλλά παρέμεινα στα 4 που είχα αποφασίσει να βάλω όταν πλησίαζα προς το τέλος του βιβλίου, είναι πως παραθέτει με περισσότερο "διδακτικό" τρόπο τα μηνύματά του από αυτό που θα ήθελα, και ίσως αρκετά ξεκάθαρα, ενώ εγώ θα ήθελα να τα αφήσει να αιωρούνται ώστε ο καθένας να τα ερμηνεύσει με διάφορους τρόπους.
Πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που έχει σχέση με τις ιστορίες και πώς αυτές μπορούν να μας βοηθήσουν να ξεπεράσουμε καταστάσεις και να ωριμάσουμε.
Ο καθένας αντιμετωπίζει τις δυσκολίες της ζωής του με διάφορους τρόπους, κάποιοι επιλέγουν να κλείνονται στον εαυτό τους και στα βιβλία τους.
ΥΠΕΡΟΧΟ, ΚΑΤΑΠΛΗΚΤΙΚΟ, ΣΥΓΚΛΟΝΙΣΤΙΚΟ!!!
This was me after finishing this novel, my first read from John Connolly:It was so gut-wrenchingly emotional.
The way the beginning is written, in which the main character, David, is dealing with his mother's slow death, I have no doubt that Connolly is writing from his own experiences.
I've read a lot of horror fiction through the years, but many scenes in this book, partly because of their juxtaposition of childlike fairy tales and real-world, grown-up horrors, make this, on the whole, easily the most horrific collection of scenes I've read in my life.
This is why I don't read the front jacket of books.
I get sucked in thinking 'wow--this makes a good story'.
Hmphf.Okay, it's not a bad story.
It had its moments.
But, it lost me when it started twisting fairy tales to be all sorts of clever.
Snow White as a hefty, insult laden uber wench?
whatever.The story outside of these sidebars is actually quite interesting, a boy's journey in a strange land, grieving over his dead mom, etc...
Because I spent a chunk of the book thinking like this, and not being consumed by the writing, I'll go with 2 stars.
