https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122981.A_Shepherd_Looks_at_Psalm_23
It has actually been a few years since I read this book, but having recently recommended it to a friend, it occurred to me that I should add it to my shelf.
When it comes to understanding the full significance of the shepherd/sheep analogy, used in Scripture for the relationship between God and His people, there is simply nothing like the perspective of an actual shepherd, who also loves the Lord.
I wholeheartedly recommend the book to any Christian who would like a new perspective on one of the most well-known, and best-loved passages in all of Scripture.
The Bible makes numerous analogies, regarding Gods people as sheep, and he as the Shepherd.
Phillip Keller abundantly illustrates in his book, the Bible's Shephed/Sheep analogy is one of the best, and the lovely and beloved Psalm 23 perhaps its most sublime discourse.
Keller, a former Sheherd himself sheds amazing new light to us who are "sheep-ignorant" that deepens one's appreciation for the analogy and brings to the believer additional comfort as we trust in our Shepherd.
Keller however treats this second half of the psalm as a continuation of the sheep/shepard analogy.
This was a wonderful, inspirational book!!
That passage of scripture is one that we all know by heart, but after reading this book you'll view those 6 verses in a whole new light.
I learned many new things about sheep in this book, and loved that part of the spectrum.
Excellent choice of book for anyone who is interested!"He is the owner who delights in his flock…"-page 35
learned so much about sheep behavior and how similarly dumb sheep and I are
If you are a newer Christian simply trying to sort out who Jesus is, this is a great book to help you understand our great Shepherd's care for us.My favorite line in the book was when two friends spent the night at Keller's home.
The only thing those men left behind was a great blessing." I hope that is what people can say of all Christians after they come into contact with us...that we left behind us a great blessing.Just like Jesus left us to live here to be a blessing.
There are some interesting insights in this devotional book.
Keller could have said "probably" or "most likely" or "David seems to be alluding to this..." The other problem that I have with this book is that Keller doesn't demonstrate adequately that shepherding practices of the 20th century were the same as those of the Ancient Near East.
They may or may not translate, but Keller makes the assumption and expects his reader to, as well.At the end of each chapter, Keller draws out some practical insights for the Christian life.
These insights could be very helpful for teaching and preaching.
Psalm 23 is probably the most familiar chapter of the Bible.
It has comforted countless mourners and encouraged innumerable weary believers.
Would knowing the daily interaction of sheep and their shepherd make this Psalm even more meaningful?
As a sheep rancher, he was daily surrounded by the same dangers, joys, and struggles.
It was encouraging, comforting, and convicting at times.
Chapter six probably taught me the most.
"He leadeth me in paths of righteousness for his name sake." I had no idea sheep wouldn't leave their 'comfort zone' even if it was making them sick.
That was just one chapter's lesson.
This little book was awesome. I am going to reread it!
I have never known much about a sheep's life (I heard a few lessons by Dr. Larry Guthrie), so reading about how Psalm 23 directly applies to the year of a sheep's life (and, in turn, how it applies to believers with Jesus as our Shepherd), was really good!
A compelling fresh look at Psalm 23 from the perspective of a sheep rancher that grew up around tribal shepherds in the middle-east.
David exclaimed “The Lord is my shepherd.” The rest of the chapter explores God, the creator of the universe and of man.
God knows us, our needs and desires.
Do I know Him and His son Jesus Christ?The rest of the book walks through Psalm 23 and explains the needs of sheep and our needs and how God provides.
God — Jesus Christ is our Good Shepherd.
I really appreciate this fresh look at Psalm 23.
This was a excellent read. Not only did this writer know what he was talking about from his own personal experience as a shepherd himself, but he also provided lessons for a Christian. I loved how he drew parallels from sheep and shepherd to a Christian and God, our Shepherd. This book was so on point. A wonderfully inspiring look at a very familiar Psalm. I found something in each chapter that related to what I'm going through. Wonderful how God's thoughts come through loud and clear in a tender and gentle way!
Though it contains value insights to sheep and shepherding, the book overflows with lists and alliterations--making it hard to read. Those, plus Biblical quotes from the Kings James Version, give Shepherd Looks an archaic feel.Keller crams 50 pages of material into 135.Pen-and-ink illustrations by Robert Doares enrich the text.
Great book if you can get passed the author's "know it all, self-righteous" tone. I love his insights on shepherding as it relates to the Bible, but was VERY put-off by almost everything else he wrote...even when I agreed with him.
SO GOOD. Such a neat book really diving into this Psalm and breaking down the life of a shepherd and the management of his sheep. Very interesting.
Great insight. The perspective of a shepherd gives new light to this verse, and completely different meaning to some parts of it.
A touching devotional for any age reader. Inspirational.
Very good book! It gave me a much deeper understanding to this passage of Scripture. I would highly recommend this book!
Excellent insight into what it is like to be a Christian under the care of the Good Shepherd with an emphasis on good. He goes into detail explaining how a shepherd goes to extreme ends to make sure his sheep are fed, protected, and cared for with attention to every detail so they can be content and serene.I loved this book and have read it several times and it makes me humble knowing I was chosen by God to be under His care.
So good! What an eye opening look at my Savior's care for me!
A Must Read Book!
It didn't take me long to find why Keller's book is so much loved and appreciated.Keller takes us on the annual journey of his sheep from the days spent on the seaside home ranch (I'd never want to leave) up through the valleys, to the tablelands and back down again.
We simply need to cooperate and receive His leading.Having this increased appreciation for the work of the shepherd has enhanced my prayer life when using this magnificent Psalm in my prayers.I must have resource for anyone wanting to fall in love again with the Psalm and to enhance one's prayer life.
I loved this book and highly recommend it for self improvement as well as for parenting.
I loved how the author knew so much about his own work and could give us insights to how he cared for sheep, and also how a shepherd cares for his.
I have thought about specific times since reading the book when I could apply it.
It makes me so grateful for the Good Shepherd in my own life, Jesus Christ who I am learning to turn my life over to.
It also reminds me of the importance of being a good "under shepherd" to those with whom I have stewardship over.
David's 23rd Psalm is a masterpiece. I never fully realized the depth of its inspired genius until I read this book. I still don't realize the depth of its inspired genius, but I think I understand more of it thanks to Phillip Keller. Keller writes as a pastor, scientist and, most importantly, a shepherd as he breaks down David's psalm phrase by phrase. Using his unique perspective and expertise, he skillfully explains, illustrates and applies the Shepherd Psalm. This is the best commentary I've ever read on Psalm 23.
I found this book on the bookshelf in the guest room in my mother-in-law's house around 1985 and picked it up and started reading it on a visit. It was my first exposure to any kind of exposition of Scripture and I just loved it. Keller spent time as a shepherd and because of his firsthand experience in the field, he was able to impart context and deeper meaning to David's most well known psalm. I bought a copy of my own. Good devotional book.
This is a wonderful book about the many similarities between caring for sheep-the sheep shepherd and God who is our Shepherd. The 23rd Psalm is explained, amplified and made much more meaningful and beautiful. This is an excellent read for the growing Christians, ministers and those who write church articles (like me).
This is a very nice little book that I highly recommend. The chapters are short but full of insights to mull over between readings. The author's experience as a shepherd really illuminates Psalm 23 in a whole new way. This will be a book to reread periodically.
Wonderful book that not only focuses on the meaning of Psalm 23, but it also makes it come alive. The author was a shepherd and relates many things about sheep and their care that adds so much to the meaning.
This book will give you a deeper understanding of David's perspective when he wrote Psalm 23. Keller really helps the Psalm come alive we with new understanding and depth. Highly recommended read, especially if you love the 23 Psalm!
This book is a refreshing insight into a verse that has become cliche in our culture. It has caused me to treasure this Psalm written about our Savior, the Good Shepherd. This is a book that I will be returning to time and again for inspiration.
A wonderful and insightful read. Makes you look at this familiar psalm differently.
