https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776477.Tactics_of_Mistake
Originally published on my blog here in February 2004.Though Dickson himself is keen that the three novels generally known as the Dorsai Trilogy should be considered to be part of the far larger framework of his Chantry Guild future history of which they form part, there are few science fiction fans who would not feel that Tactics of Mistake, Soldier, Ask Not and Dorsai!
The reason for this is simple: Dickson later on let his writing become weighed down by some of the mystical ideas which form a relatively small part of these three novels; interesting they may be, but they dominate the other books to such an extent that the reader is put off.Tactics of Mistake introduces the Dorsai, a race of mercenary soldiers of the future.
Better than the earlier books.
A long time ago this was my introduction to this series and Gordon Dickson in general.
And with this re-read I still like it, and like it better than the earlier books.
It does a good job of moving the story along even if the parallel with Dorsai!
And I don't think I read Dorsai!
In this book Dickson tries to explain how the worlds went from Necromancer to Dorsai!/Soldier Ask Not. And it is basically is just enough.
For simple relatively short action books, there is a lot of philosophy and complexity.
But the later books are a lot longer.
An excellent book!!! My first read of 2018. Read for VintageSciFiMonth in January. First rate Military SciFi that deals more with the inner heart and mind of humanity than the battles, but describes the actions well! Highly enjoyable and possibly the best book of The Childe Cycle so far!
I enjoyed the timelessness of this book; Dickson didn't dwell too much on what the differences were in technology and race, but rather on the existence of differences: different groups had different attitudes, different technology had different benefits, etc. I found the book a little optimistic though; everything works out just the way Cletus plans and I've just never seen that happen in the real world. Life happens. Armies and leaders are often plagued with unforeseen circumstances, mistakes and coincidence. Leadership seems to be more about adapting to circumstances than trying to figure out exactly what's going to happen.
Classic old time sci-fi with dated (charming) language and reasonable characters. I love that it completely takes fast interstellar travel as a given and doesn’t dwell on it in the least. Interplanetary conquest with overtones of Space Operas. It’s a quick read.Definitely more military strategy than anything else, but it’s done well. The fact that it flies in the face of US strategy in Vietnam was interesting (written in 1970) It is one of the few books where our hero’s strategy *always* works (which is a little annoying). Reminds me of Dune a bit.
Dry, interesting concept, early example of military sci-fi world building. Could have done with a sense of humor. An early influence on Enders Game. Fantastic artwork. A minor classic.
He was well-educated and his writing displays his intellect in a very thought-provoking manner.I began reading the Dorsai series back in the 1970's and found his idea of a mercenary force that was more interested in preserving themselves than in fighting battles (and getting themselves killed, which is costly both financially and personnel-wise) to be interesting.
If what I've written on the front cover is true, I first read this book in 1976, then again in 1985.The main character, Cletus Grahame, plays his game of being a mercenary leader like a master chess player against his opponent, Dow Decastris.
Not been able to find the book anywhere all these years.
The idea is still cool.
The world building across the entire series this book is part of is cool.
But now reading this after the other books in the series, I could see lot of elements furthering the overall story -the story of humans spreading into outer space and breaking into splinter cultures and the conflicts between earth and other worlds and well as between the varying philosophies of the splinter cultures.
This series is something I plan to revisit this year along with Dune and Ringworld.
Dickson's "Tactics of Mistake (Childe Cycle Book 4)" lies in the middle of his "Childe Cycle." But, for me, it's the pinnacle of the thing.
Part of that is that Dickson never finished the Cycle.
According to the wiki for the "Childe Cycle," there were supposed to be six science fiction books, three historical ones, and three (then) present-day ones.
He never wrote the historical or present-day books, and four of the science-fiction books that are numbered as part of the Cycle really only take place in the same universe: they were not supposed to be part of the Cycle.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5A young, puzzlingly overconfident upstart comes along and challenges an older, established, and influential leader to a game of wits.
We've seen this before - a couple of times already - in the Childe Cycle.
I enjoy seeing the mysteriously charismatic, military savant challenge and defeat his foes.
I like the eerie aura suffusing the tale.
I like the background political and sociological world that this is grounded in.
I would rather this have progressed or filled in more, however, instead of doing the same thing again with new characters in new places.
I was curious about where Dickson would go after the seemingly complete trilogy of Dorsai!, Necromancer, and Soldier, Ask Not., so I continued reading the series in publication order.Tactics of Mistake steps back in time again relative to Dorsai!
to show the maturation of the splinter cultures.
It feels less decisive than the other books and almost reactionary -- the protagonist of this book is in many ways, seemingly more or less the same as the protagonist of Dorsai!.Though I enjoyed the story as a military science fiction story, I really felt like it didn't add anything to Dickson's thesis about humanity's evolution.
It certainly shed light on the Dorsai and why they are the way they are, but the details revealed really aren't that interesting.
A really interesting strategy-based approach to military SF, though the protagonist needs more depth to justify his faultless talent, and the novel tends towards repetition of similar events. There's a physiological element to the book which echoes Frank Herbert's Kwisatz Haderach a little too closely for comfort. Otherwise, a refreshing approach to the subgenre.
Better than might be expected since it is basically a retelling of the better book Dorsai! Just in prequel form. Read it on a plane and in a hotel room. It's short and well written. But probably not as important to the Cycle as book 4 should be.
Interesting story on the basis of the Dorsai strengths and the initial formation of the "castes" - really strong for the first 2/3rds I thought, then got a bit dull.
Probably the best of the books in this series.
Excellent bookBrilliant Military S&F. Vivid and unexpected action. Very good style of writing with amaizing end. Mandatory position to read for everyone.
Solid military SF, light on the metaphysics than other entries in the series and all the better for it.
The entire novel, in fact, is a kind of elaborate game of chess, with Grahame employing his theory of ‘Tactics of Mistake’ to goad De Castries into retaliating against his every calculated move, making bigger and bigger mistakes until he ultimately destroys himself.This novel at least stands the test of time very well and is interesting in that there is (as in ‘Dune’) an oddly mystical slant to proceedings.Kultis is one of the colonies of the Exotics, a quasi-mystical community who are both scientifically and philosophically advanced.
This one, written in 1970, is quite frankly a piece of post ‘60s, new age, hippy wish fulfilment (if that’s completely possible in a military book).
Not only that, the same abilities allow him to totally reconstruct a destroyed knee, though at least this time with some help from the ‘Exotics’ (read future hippies) and also, once again through his truly awesome mental powers, even defeat poison that should have killed him in minutes.Being a reader of SF I’m prepared to do a fair bit of suspension of disbelief but this book pushes it too far.
In order to reach Dorsai he manipulates everybody he comes across in a very successful way (although mostly in a manner that everything available must be used as a tool to achieve ones goals).[return][return]Story concept is very similar to the one found in "The Man Who Never Missed" - attempt to help human kind to prosper and achieve its maximum and letting numerous colonies to develop (in every possible way) by themselves by removing the bounds in form of centralized government that stalls progress .
Like Dorsai, this book is long on interesting ideas, and short on characterization, although I think you get into the head of the main character a little better in this one.The hero of the story, Cletus Graeme, effectively forces the independence of the settled worlds from the domination of Earth (which eventually leads to the specialization of Dorsai, the topic of the other book).
He forces their independence by engaging is a small series of battles that steadily lead toward that goal.I have to say, though, that Gordon R.
He does a much better job with females characters in his later books, like The Dragon and the George.
The genetics under pinning the novel are simplistic, which is not Dickson’s fault, as our understanding of how genotypes are the expressed in a person’s phenotype is far greater now than it was then.From a military perspective there are many things that Dickson omits that would be present in his future, and for some reason, Dickson has his troops wearing synthetic leather uniforms, in field grey.
Unless stinking all the time is good for morale (this is a real problem when wearing NBC uniforms called Noddy suits in the British Army).
This book was really well thought out and planned.
I like how the tactics fall into place, and how there is always the larger game being played which is easy to lose track of temporarily until it's pointed out that Cletus really is playing the long game with every move he makes.I would have liked for some of the later military engagements to have had more detail, but I think that may have been done on purpose, as Cletus slowly moves away from direct command to training and advising.
Weoo plotted and well executed, if following the same pattern as the previous Childe Cycles novels.
There is much of interest here: a novel, written during the height of the Vietnam War about how to win a war without losing any troops (either your own or your enemies), the importance of "Eastern philosophies" to becoming a whole person, etc.
While Dickson still has yet to reach his greatest peak as a writer this novel gets us closer to that time.
Still an engaging novel.
Read this because it showed up as a serial in Analog magazine, which I read regularly around the time it was published. Setup novel for the Dorsai series by this author--which became part of the Childe Cycle. I would have missed something very fine if I had stuck to my juvenile prejudice against stories about soldiers and/or war. I think I had to give it 4 stars just because it got me started on the Dorsai.
A theoretical tactical genius goes into the field to prove his theories of tactics and of history.I enjoy this book a lot, but it doesn't really have anything more stunning than what you would expect from its description. Its purpose within the Childe Cycle is to set up the independent human worlds, particular Dorsai. The one female character is weak, which unfortunately is fairly common in the Childe Cycle books.
Beautiful DorsailThe beginning of the fortunes of Dorsai as a military power in the Chylde cycle.Learn about Cletus Graheme, and he literally founded Dorsai and what the Dorsai were. A beautiful pièce of narrative, fast paced and never relaxing.Maybe the character are not the best, the schema is the same as other Dorsai books, powerful personalities clashing, but it is really good.
There's a lot more action in this book compared to the last one. We've also gone back in time, a century before the first book, to learn about the origins & the real strength of the Dorsai. A good, quick read with a neat ending.The series is still going strong. On to the next book, The Spirit of Dorsai.
Given the premise, the lack of humour surprised me, and then irritated me, and then bored me. Patrons of Hammersmith charity shops should keep their eyes open if they're at all interested, this one's going back into circulation.
Short on characterization; the lead character proves to be just a little too brilliant and superhuman--besides physical shortcomings, he never experiences a setback or mistake. But the ideas were interesting and it was fun watching the protagonist manipulate the situations.
