https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9997.The_Ruined_Map
Nuevamente leo un libro de mi escritor japonés preferido: Kobo Abe. Si bien reconozco que no leo asiduamente literatura japonesa (además de Abe, sólo he leído “El marino que perdió la gracia del mar” de Yukio Mishima y “Crónica del pájaro que da cuerda al mundo” de Haruki Murakami), cada vez que me encuentro con un libro de este excelente escritor, apodado “el Kafka japonés”, me entusiasmo porque sé que va a ser una lectura agradable.Luego de leer libros suyos como “Los cuentos siniestros”, tal vez el más kafkiano de todos, así también como “El rostro ajeno” y “Encuentros secretos” le tocó el turno a “El mapa calcinado” y nuevamente me he sumergido en esos mundos ficcionarios que sólo él puede construir.El argumento del libro es netamente del género policial negro en el cual un detective sin nombre tiene que investigar el caso de un empresario desaparecido, el señor Nemuro, pero para el cual tiene muy pocos datos con qué iniciar dicha investigación.
Urban malaise. Noir. Fragmented experience. Anonymity of crowds to the point of obliteration. Dislocation within a manufactured landscape. Dislocation within one's own life and experiences in a postmodern world. Surfaces / underworlds.This is Abe's novel of the City. Even when his adherence to and rejection of seeming plot mechanics appear at odds, the gestalt holds this together beautifully.
It was still a puzzle I could not understand no matter how I racked my brains." (This is the only place in the book that the laughing moon dream is mentioned)And from only a few pages later, opening up a chapter:"I could only assume someone was watching me."So Abe does a good job of making this plot believable--you can see the narrator's gradual descent into paranoia and, ultimately, incoherence, whereas Auster gives us nothing of the sort--while providing us with some interesting scenery along the way.
What begins as a traditional investigation becomes complex as the protagonist, the detective, is met with ambiguity and deceit along the way that acts as a means to purposefully obscure his ability to solve the mystery of the missing husband.At first this book frustrated me with its vague and uncertain details and dialogues.
It was impossible to get a straight honest answer from any of the secondary characters which made the first 100 pages irritating.
Abe raises many questions about identity, existence and human interaction that cannot always be easily answered and described.
In one sense, it's the map leading the detective to his quarry; ruined because it is incomplete and must be interpolated with clues.
Here, we again see the existentialist emerge -- of course, there is no absolute guide for living, and thus the map is ruined.
You should go only through places where everyone goes, places that are considered absolutely safe, he says."The existence of the map is crucial because the detective does not have an internal compass and relies exclusively upon the external guidance provided by the map.
Due to its incompleteness, the map is incapable of providing direction to the detective, and he becomes lost.
For me, the highlights of The Box Man had to do with the level of weirdness combined with a comment on identity and dropping-out of society.
These themes come up often in the films I have seen based on Abe novels as well (Woman in the Dunes, Face of Another) Unfortunately, The Ruined Map is quite lacking in every way.This time Abe presents us with a fairly straightforward mystery.
There are a couple of diversions into bizarre Japanese underworld territories, but overall these didn't really capture my attention.
It was by no means a terrible book, just not Abe at the top of his game, and sure to be very forgettable.
To my surprise, I liked it!This novel tells the story of a nameless private detective who was hired by a woman to search for her husband who went missing six months earlier.
However, unlike the more traditional detective works of the likes of Matsumoto, Higashino, and Miyabe, the Ruined Map is less about the search and more about the detective’s psychological state of mind.
I would recommend this novel as a start to anyone who wants to read a Kobo Abe novel.P.S. after writing the above review I think I found a possible solution to the question that Abe posited about the missing man.
This pleased me at first - it reminded me of James Dickey's "Deliverance", and how the map in that opening foreshadowed the dreadful resistance the characters were going to get from the land into which they were planning (as they thought) their venture.
I also thought I sensed the ghost-story vibe of Japanese cinema and literature, the lack of boundaries between this world and the Other one.This is far from the first metaphysical or philosophical exploration-as-novel I've read.
The biggest mystery contained in this novel is why E Dale Saunders felt it was necessary to translate it into English.
The book follows an unnamed detective on a missing persons case that leads him to such savory encounters as with the leader of a male prostitution ring, a swarmy voyeur who commits suicide and the client without any personality who drinks in her house all day.
The entire book is nausea-inducing.
The writing is desciptive, but it is wasted on the mundane, the seedy urban filth of the industial outskirts and housing blocks of Tokyo.
On top of that, the mystery is never solved.
This is my fifth Abe book.
Generally I'm intrigued with his books which have a very surreal feel to them.
The Ruined Map starts off in a standard pulp crime novel format.
Anything but surreal.
Not my Abe. On the other hand it was quite readable so I continued.
The unnamed detective searching for a missing husband slowly wanders ever deeper into a labyrinthine, darkened world where he loses more and more confidence in himself and the world around him.
What has actually happened and who is missing?
Who is searching?
How can anyone just disappear?Abe show's exactly how.
I really hate the term 'mindfuck,' but that is precisely what this novel is, the fourth I've read by Abe. It is deeply challenging and dense, commanding your complete attention to every word. What is most stunning is Abe's ability to create a nearly perpetual ambiguity with a frustrating overabundance of details. I read this because 1) I love Abe, and 2) I saw Teshigahara's film version and was trying to comprehend it. Mysteries still remain, but for some reason I feel satisfied.
"When you're driving, you never want to think of stopping. You want the moment to go on forever just as it is. But when it's over, you shudder at a state like that, with no end. There's a big difference between driving and thinking about driving."
Slowly the detective becomes lost within the labyrinth of the city, and ends up assuming the identity of the disappeared husband, losing his own in the process.This is the second Kobo Abe, I’ve read and like the first, The Ruined Map, appears to follow similar themes: whereas the first was about adding layers to a mask with the result of the individual losing connection with himself, with his own identity and via that with connection with the world about him, this novel takes a slightly different route.
I have always wanted to read Abe and this was my first pick.
A beautiful, enigmatic, alcoholic woman hires a private detective who is also the narrator, to find her missing husband.
But soon, facing an existential crisis, the narrator begins to question his identity and probably ends up insane?
And towards the end of the book you are left wondering whether any of it was truth or fact.
Is the narrator insane and in his insanity imagining himself to be the missing man or is the last part of the story actually narrated by the husband?
Sentences ended abruptly.
While I often need to be patient and be willing to feel lost awhile when reading an Abe novel, it always pays off in the impressionistic emotion and atmosphere he is able to deliver, and the Ruined Map was no different.
A hard boiled noir detective story where the detective learns less and less about the case as he goes on, the form cleverly makes use of this subversion of genre to explore issues of disorientation and the tenuousness of identity.
Weird as hell, though it may not seem so because of Abe's masterful imitation of the detective story.
I know that's partially the intent here, to leave the reader disoriented, but I was never able to fully become absorbed into the story, as often there was nothing substantial for me to latch onto, and sometimes no transition from one scene to the next.
Don't get me wrong, I love me some weirdness, even if it's just for weirdness' sake, but the fact that I was never able to become fully invested in the story resulted in pure boredom at various times.
I found it to be a tedious read.
I had started it a couple of years ago when I bought the book, but then I couldn't get very far.
I started it again recently and forced myself through the entire book.
It's not that it's a bad book; in fact it does have some interesting aspects and parts of it were a good read.
First I suspected the translation, but then realized it wasn't that.
Partly it was the long paragraphs (the longest I noted was four full pages), but it wasn't fully that either.
I won't pretend that great swathes of this didn't move swiftly into and out of consciousness, or that I wasn't bored and totally adrift for entire sections.
I had intended to give this 3 stars and call it a day, but Abe makes it so easy to read even the most redundant/superfluous sentences and the narrative/narrator's logic is so odd that it wasn't much of a chore to get through the whole thing.
Of course there is a Twilight Zone ending.
Of course there is.
But it redeems (or at rate justifies) and makes sense of much of what comes before it.
I have yet to read a Japanese novel that is not at least somewhat bizarre and oblique. This one starts with a conventional idea -a private detective is hired by a woman to find her missing husband - but reads almost more like a surreal fantasy than a noir. The prose is spare and hallucinatory, and I admit I found it very hard to understand what was going on.
maybe its the translation, but for some reason this book felt like a chore the whole time i was reading it. which is too bad, cause i really dug woman in the dunes. maybe someone disagrees with me? vent, i'm looking in your direction..
So I picked up this book because it promised to be a mix of Kafka and Chandler. Kafka yes, Chandler no. I have no idea what happened in this book, but I could tell it had a lot more to do with how we perceive our place in a modern anonymous city than finding a missing husband.
Well written but I didn't find it as interesting as other works by him.
reminds me a lot of the new york trilogy by Auster: investigator slowly becoming the person he is looking for.There is some cool repeated imagery throughout the whole novel: the matches, black oil seeping onto things, gross fingernails etc. that really tie the work together. I enjoyed the style.
Chander akan sumringah sekaligus keki setengah mati kalo baca novel ini.
Noir, made me remember Bogart.
Somewhere along the way it becomes something else entirely and it is that journey that held me the whole time.The flow is something I have encountered before in Japanese novels, it is like you have missed a page or a whole chapter.
This book may well be a subtle way of deconstructing the reader as in the reader feels deconstructed without ever piercing the mystery of this detective story.When I think back on this book it seems to me that it happens mostly at night in places lit by bare electric bulbs in a landscape reminiscent of the underside of the tower block in Brazil mixed up with 1960’s science fiction novels.
and don't like to re-read books even though sometimes a type of writer makes me salivate with cravings, like for a hamburger from Sugar Park Tavern, or macaroni and cheese, or ice cream, or more often tastes for whisky, which I view as a medicinal remedy, a preparation for the next hour...
so I read The Ruined Map in preparation for the next hour...
Tuttle and Co., and the book itself was more a pleasure to hold in my hands than to read.
ျဖတသြားျဖတလာ အေရအတြကက အရငရွိေနတာထက အံအားသငစရာေကာငးေလာကေအာင ပိုမားလာတယ။ ေစး၀ယထြကရာက ျပနလာတဲ မိနးမေတြခညးမဟုတဘူး၊ အလုပက အိမျပနလာတဲ ေယာကားေတြလညး ပါတယ။ လိုငးကားတစစီး မွတတိုင၀ငလာတာ ျဖစခငျဖစမွာ။ သူတို႔ကို ကၽြနေတာ ငံု႔ၾကညေနရငးမွာပဲ၊ လူဆိုတာ လမးေလွာကေနတဲ တိရိစ ၦနေတြပဲလို႔ ေကာငးေကာငး သေဘာေပါကလာတယ။ လမးေလွာကတယဆိုတာထက ဒီသတၱ၀ါေတြဟာ ကလီစာေတြထညထုပထားတဲ သူ႔တို႔ အေရျပားအိတႀကီးေတြကို ပငပနးတႀကီး ဒရြတတိုကဆြဲၿပီး ေျမဆြဲအားကို တြနးလွနေနရတာပဲဆိုတဲ ခံစားခကမဳိး ကၽြနေတာမွာ၀ငလာတယလို႔ ေျပာရင ပိုမွနမယ။ တခဳိ႕က သူတို႔ ထြကလာတဲ
ျဖတ္သြားျဖတ္လာ အေရအတြက္က အရင္ရွိေနတာထက္ အံ့အားသင့္စရာေကာင္းေလာက္ေအာင္ ပိုမ်ားလာတယ္။ ေစ်း၀ယ္ထြက္ရာက ျပန္လာတဲ့ မိန္းမေတြခ်ည္းမဟုတ္ဘူး၊ အလုပ္က အိမ္ျပန္လာတဲ့ ေယာက္်ားေတြလည္း ပါတယ္။ လိုင္းကားတစ္စီး မွတ္တိုင္၀င္လာတာ ျဖစ္ခ်င္ျဖစ္မွာ။ သူတို႔ကို ကၽြန္ေတာ္ ငံု႔ၾကည့္ေနရင္းမွာပဲ၊ လူဆိုတာ လမ္းေလွ်ာက္ေနတဲ့ တိရိစ ၦန္ေတြပဲလို႔ ေကာင္းေကာင္း သေဘာေပါက္လာတယ္။ လမ္းေလွ်ာက္တယ္ဆိုတာထက္ ဒီသတၱ၀ါေတြဟာ ကလီစာေတြထည့္ထုပ္ထားတဲ့ သူ႔တို႔ အေရျပားအိတ္ႀကီးေတြကို ပင္ပန္းတႀကီး ဒရြတ္တိုက္ဆြဲၿပီး ေျမဆြဲအားကို တြန္းလွန္ေနရတာပဲဆိုတဲ့ ခံစားခ်က္မ်ဳိး ကၽြန္ေတာ့္မွာ၀င္လာတယ္လို႔ ေျပာရင္ ပိုမွန္မယ္။ တခ်ဳိ႕က သူတို႔ ထြက္လာတဲ့ အရပ္ဆီကို ျပန္လာေနၾကတာ၊ ဒီလိုျပန္လာဖို႔အတြက္ပဲ ထြက္လာခဲ့ၾကရတာ မဟုတ္လား။ သူတို႔အိမ္ေတြက နံရံထူထူေတြကို ပိုၿပီးထူလာေအာင္လုပ္ဖို႔၊ ျပန္လည္ခိုလႈံရာမွာ အရင္ကထက္ ပိုမိုၾကံ့ခိုင္ေနဖို႔အတြက္ နံရံနဲ႔သက္ဆိုင္တဲ့ပစၥည္းေတြ ရရွိဖို႔ သူတို႔ အျပင္ကို ထြက္ၾကရတာ။ ျဖစ္ခဲတယ္ဆိုေပမဲ့၊ တခါတေလက်ေတာ့လည္း လူတခ်ဳိ႕ဟာ ဘယ္ေတာ့မွျပန္မလာႏိုင္ေတာ့ဘဲ အျပင္ထြက္သြားၾကရတယ္။
I read Kobo Abe's "The Ruined Map" in Russian translation, so some of my comments below may or may not find relevance in any English translations.Something intrinsic to Kobe Abe's writing is a deep-rooted undercurrent of psychological weight that seems to hang on for an indefinite time after finishing any of his works.
Having read this a little over a year ago, I can still recall fairly easily the discomfort and a sort of quiet anxiety when reading "The Ruined Map".I noticed that a few readers remark that this work felt boring.
The most overpowering character is the city itself with its surreal, disorienting, unnatural and vague qualities.
Technically this could be described as a Japanese crime/mystery, but without any sense of suspense or urgency.
In case you were wondering, a mystery without suspense makes for a huge waste of times and a lot of boredom.
Since the Japanese are generally a very stoic, calm culture I guess I shouldn't have been surprised that their perspective on crime would be similarly measured and controlled, but I wish I'd made that connection before starting (and thus, having to finish) this book.Definitely a slog- a very painful slog of the narrators gradual loss of identity as he finds himself unequal to the task of solving a missing persons' case.
