https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3478.Message_in_a_Bottle
He shares his inspiration but I have to warn you, it is gut wrenching..."Message in a Bottle was inspired by my father after the death of my mother.
They'd been married twenty-seven years and my father didn't have the slightest idea of what it meant to be a grown-up without my mom.
My father wore black every day for four years.
After four long years of worrying about him, my father finally started taking baby steps out in the world again.
And then one day, about seven years after my mom had died, I got a call from my father.
Second chances,Sometimes you never know if your given the blessing of having love a 2nd time only to loose it again.This book inspires you to look at life differently and appreciate what you have before it is taken away from you!The small things become those that you treasure the most. I finished this the night. Thank you for this emotional loving book!
Okay, so it's been years since I read this book.
I read it based on people telling me Nicholas Sparks was this amazing author.
AND, I knew they had made a movie off of the book, and any time they do that, the book is always super good, right?
TOTALLY WRONG!
I remember it was one of the dumbest books ever.
None of the storyline was very logical, and at the end, the main character dies, leaving you saying, "WHAT THE CRAPPITY CRAP?!
My eyeballs feel they wasted precious minutes of their life being forced to read this book.
I had to apologize to them many times afterwards.
The 1999 film Message in a Bottle produced by and starring Kevin Costner, is based on this novel.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ششم ماه نوامبر سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: پیامی در بطری؛ نویسنده: نیکولاس اسپارکس؛ برگردان: ارمغان جزایری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، البرز، 1378، در 317 ص، شابک: 9644422295؛ چاپ قبلی کتاب با ترجمه نفیسه معتکف در 390 ص، توسط انتشارت لیوسا، با شابک: 9645634083؛ منتشر شده است؛ موضوع: داستانهای امریکایی قرن 20 مپیامی در بطری؛ حدیث جدال با سرنوشت دو انسان سرگشته است.
ترزا پس از خواندن نامه و پی بردن به عشق بی‌آلایش نویسنده‌ اش، آن را در روزنامه چاپ می‌کند.
I bought this book used for fifty cents at a book sale.I'm glad I didn't spend more money on it. What a disappointment. It dragged pretty much through the entire book & then BLAM, the end SUCKED so hard it just pissed me off & any good feelings I'd had from this book were quickly forgotten.
پیامی در بطری داستانی است که باور ما را در مورد سرنوشت تقویت میکند که عاشقان راستین بیتوجه به زمان و مکان میتوانند یکدیگر را بیابند. ترزا، روزنامه نگار، بطری دربسته ای حاوی نامه ای عاشقانه در ساحل پیدا می کند که باعث می شود مسیر زندگی اش به کلی تغییر کند. او نامه را می خواند:کاترین عزیزم، دلم برایت تنگ است. همیشه دلتنگم، اما امروز از همیشه بدترم؛ زیرا دریا نغمه سرایی می کند و آواز سر می دهد که زندگی من به تو بسته است...
پیامی در بطری داستانی است که باور ما را در مورد سرنوشت تقویت می‌کند که عاشقان راستین بی‌توجه به زمان و مکان می‌توانند یکدیگر را بیابند. ترزا، روزنامه نگار، بطری دربسته ای حاوی نامه ای عاشقانه در ساحل پیدا می کند که باعث می شود مسیر زندگی اش به کلی تغییر کند. او نامه را می خواند:کاترین عزیزم، دلم برایت تنگ است. همیشه دلتنگم، اما امروز از همیشه بدترم؛ زیرا دریا نغمه سرایی می کند و آواز سر می دهد که زندگی من به تو بسته است...
This is making my brain hurt. No more. DNF at about 60%.
If you thought "The Notebook" was a tearjerker, then get ready to have a hanky on hand and be on an emotional rollercoaster ride with Sparks's second star-crossed love story, "Message in a Bottle".
Theresa also finds that Garrett just might be ready to love again and that she might be the woman for him.
The relationship between Theresa and Garrett is natural and relatable; just get ready for the tears to flow when you read the ending.Book Details: Title Message in a Bottle Author Nicholas SparksReviewed By Purplycookie
1. I didn't really like this book as much as some of Sparks' other novels.
3. One thing that really bugs me is that i almost feel like Sparks thinks he needs to write an explicit sex scene to sell something.
You don't need sex to be in love.
Don't get me wrong, I still love his novels.
I'm sure that some of you have different opinions, and I'd love to hear how you feel!Oh, a P.S. to those of you who dislike Sparks' books because they don't have "happy endings": get over it.
Read this book while vacationing in Cancun in 1998.
Perfect experience!If I remember correctly, it was one of my favorite books during that time.
The book made me compelled to write a letter and throw it out to sea, which I never did.
It's a heartfelt story that should be read.
It's a one-time-good-book read.
If you like Sparks's writing, then I highly recommend this book.
If you enjoy stories about how two people don't know about each other, but it's fate that they should be together, get this book.
If you're into sappy love stories, get this book.
Until today, I consider it as one of the best novels of Sparks.I can still remember how I passionately copy by hand and read over and over again the letters of Garrett to Catherine.
They decided to be together, but the heavens tore them apart.Tragic as it is, Message in a Bottle remains to be one of the best loved creations of Nicholas Sparks.http://flipthrough.wordpress.com/2010...
Just like many, if not most, the movie did NOT do justice to this book.
The movie portraied Garrett as a victim of the circumstances that was lied to and that somehow did not have any say in what occurred.
It also projected Theresa as someone that was easily thrown into searching for Garrett for the purpose of "knowing what kind of person would right romantic letters," which seems like a lame excuse.
I mean, realistically speaking, how many people would go out of their way to seek, find and become intimate with, the author of a romantic letter?One of the most interesting descriptions is that Theresa later finds herself in the same situation she found Garrett in when they first met, and did not understand....
Written in a very simplistic way, one story line, nothing going on but the conversation or action currently on the page.
Being a romance it has to have some silly language, in this case the overuse of the word "tightening".
Take this line, "The breeze was blowing through her hair, and the sight of it made something tighten in his stomach." If that isn't enough to get you giggling, take these lines, "There was something mysterious and different about the way he acted, something masculine.
Despite myself, I've been eyeing corked bottles.
Should I send a message in a bottle?
интересен обрат..
Hace mucho que leí este libro que digo mucho muchísimo era de mis primeros libros de romántica que leía y no recuerdo mucho sólo lo de la botella y el mensaje que me gustó pero el final fue horrible me dejó con una sensación horrible de vacío por eso JAMÁS le volví a dar otra oportunidad a Nicholas Sparks, sólo a sus adaptaciones de las películas que me parecen mejores que sus libros jajaja
Género de livros que não consigo gostar.

I resisted reading this book for a long time because the movie is one of my favorites.
Having just struggled through a long difficult read of David Copperfield, this read was smooth and easy and fast.I am a very emotional person and that emotion seems to be more readily let loose now that I admit to getting old.
I have always been emotional and have never been shamed by letting others see that emotion.
As I read this book, it became clear to me that as I read Nicholas Sparks' words that his style is quite similar to mine.
Listen to this instead. Much better Message in a Bottle

Nicholas Sparks is my favorite author and after reading this book, I'd say this is his most touching novel I've read so far.
She reads it and tears begin to fall because the person who wrote this letter really loved his significant other.
After many events, Theresa and Garrett meet and they develop something so beautiful.
Theresa had 3 letters Garrett wrote and he found them.
Sparks writes in 3rd person omniscient and readers can see that they both don't want to end like this.
Nicholas Sparks was able to make me see another side of love.
Letters , the thing fascinating about love letters is the marks; deep and long lasting , it leaves not only upon reader's mind but on writer's too .
I have been found of writing letters like this , though i gave a failed attempt .
Single mother in mid life crisis finds a letter enclosed in a bottle at the sea.
Her eagerness to find the writer leads her fall for him.
A must read for teenagers to have insight what it like to be "moving on" with life when someone leaves us when love is needed the most.
I remember reading this book a long time ago and I suddenly started to remember it today.
I remember that it made my heart ache, and it made me cry so much.
Nicholas Sparks does have a way with his stories and I am glad that I gave him a try once upon a time.
But if you're into romances with heartbreaking moments and an ending that will have your heart cry out, then you should definitely try this book out.I'm probably going to try to re-read this one again, just for a more thorough review, so be right back with this one!
The novel starts as it does, but the urgency in Deanna’s character forcing Theresa to go meet Garrett and see if he is the love of her life looks sad and bad.
Garrett who couldn’t think of anything without Catherine in his minds suddenly steered in path of finding of love again in his life is just fictitious.
It got way too descriptive and even then Garrett was showed to have not thought of everything in anticipation when he asked Theresa to move to Wilmington.Frankly, I was worried I was not getting tears in my eyes until the last.
This is my first Nicholas Sparks book and it's exactly what I expected, a chick lit romance.
I seem to enjoy books that feel like fate or destiny.
Sparks does this when Theresa finds that message in a bottle.
A love letter that is so powerful that you cannot ignore it after you've read it.
A message in a bottle that sailed the waves of the ocean to end up to the right reader at the right time.
The characters, Theresa and Garret have demons of their own.
They both need to face them, before their routes can truly align with one another.Reasons I did not like the book...1.
For me, this is the saddest of all the books of Sparks, so far.An epitome of the world's greatest regret, letting go of someone even if you really love him/her.Like what I said yesterday, it was hard for me to get in to the book at first but I soon completely fell in to it, holding on to the moments of bliss till the loneliest part of the book.
And after reading the first half of the book, I knew that the two will soon make the greatest mistakes of their lives.
Es Nicholas Sparks, así que por descarte ya se sabe que tiene un cinco de cinco.Una historia corta, pero con mucho contenido.
En esta nueva historia, (al menos para mí), se vuelve a repetir la historia de dos amantes, que se enamoran a primera vista, y su amor, aunque es apasionado y verdadero, es imposible.
Como ya he dicho en todas mis opiniones de los libros que he leído de Nicholas Sparks, este autor es el único al cual no le critico ese amor cliché e irreal.
Pero es que Nicholas simplemente me puede.
Check out my review below:Debra's Book CafeDebs :-)
Abandoned! I’m just not into the romance genre. My inner cynic just jumps up and down saying “no way would he/she behave that way”. I can’t override my sense of disbelief.” I gave “Message in a Bottle” a go because it had a promising beginning, but romance writing is romance writing; I’m just too practical to be intrigued by it.
This was so hard to read. It touched on tragedy in my own life that I struggle with on a daily basis, yet at the same time gave me hope.
