https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399623.Man_Woman_and_Child
It pushes Robert to reconsider his relation with his family seriously, and his stagnated life, but the same incident also brings the best out his wife’s heart, and she falls for Jean-Claude as her own son.But Jean-Claude wants to keep his mother’s wish: to go to a school in France his mother always wanted.
The reason of picking this book was the movie I had watched based on this work. I finished it in about 4 hours which was rather good. Like the movie, this book too pulled the strings of my heart. However, it fell a tad short in making me cry. Ermm... That's my yardstick to declare a book in drama genre, 5-star worthy!
"Man, Woman and Child" by Erich Segal has a very powerful story with varying emotions such as love, compassion, jealousy, betrayal and hurt between a man, woman and a child.
Each individual has their own ways of living and showing the world that they are not dependent on anybody.
The more important aspect in the book is the way in which it maps the development of relationships and breakdowns between people due to a single incident.
The story unfolds beautifully and if there was one book by Erich Segal you must read, let it be this one!
Great story...wonder if he based this on someone he knew, the story was what I imagined his life was like. Academics, and universities, and middle-aged marriages...and the things we do in life.
If there is any author who knows how to bring out emotions and make you bawl like a baby then it is Segal.Fidelity is something that is becoming a rare virtue in today’s fast pacing world.
Nonetheless a strong marriage needs strong commitments from both partners.
Ok, I know that’s extreme but yet, infidelity can have effects , some really profound effects.
It’s a take on real incidents, real situations .That’s what I love about Erich Segal.
أحب طريقة اريك سيغال في سود رواياته، ورسم شخوصه ونفسياتهم.. ماذا سيحدث للعائلة حينما يكتشف الأب أن لديه طفل غير شرعي منذ عشر سنوات.. كيف سينضم للعائلة؟ كيف سيتقبل الطفل؟ والزوجة؟... كل مرة أقف مع مشاعر أحدهما، ولا أنجح في الفصل، هنا لا أبيض ولا أسود...
Nei romanzi di Erich Segal, nonostante la prosa colloquiale e lo stile scorrevole, c’è quella profondità, nelle tematiche, nei profili dei personaggi, nelle riflessioni che ne scaturiscono, che a mio avviso costituisce il pregio dei grandi scrittori di ieri.
E invece…e invece questo romanzo è più simile alla vita che a uno spot del Mulino Bianco, e questo lo rende ancora più pregevole e apprezzabile.
Oserei definire Segal un autore molto vicino ai grandi minimalisti, scrive di personaggi normali, con una prosa semplice e spoglia ma nella quale si ritrova un inestimabile valore.
Pese a que sólo he leído dos obras del autor, comienzo a creer que su estilo es bastante predecible: "El ser humano reacciona sólo ante las tragedias"Sé que es así, sin embargo la manera en la que lo aborda Segal no me convence del todo.Además el final me dejó algo perpleja.
¿Qué se supone que significa?
Dejando de lado lo emocional...
¿alguien quiere pensar en los gastos?No tienen ni idea de lo mal que me cayeron el par de hijas malcriadas de Bob y lo impresionada que quedé con el gran contraste respecto a Jean-Claude; lo que te hace cuestionarte si educan mejor a los niños en Francia.No he vivido nada parecido al tema principal del libro y no sé si esa sea la razón de que la historia me haya dejado tan indiferente.
Man, Woman and Child by Erich Segal Sheila and Bob lead the perfect life, successful in their jobs, 2 daughters, an epitome of a marriage - but Bob has kept a secret for 10 years, a secret that comes back to haunt him when he takes a call from France.
Years ago, I read Segal's "Doctors" 3 times, I read Acts of Faith, Love Story, Oliver's Story and Prizes and I remember them all, especially Doctors, very fondly.
Maybe that's why this book ultimately disappointed me.
لقد تناولت الرواية سكيولوجيا العائلة والعلاقة الزوجية والمقدرة على التعامل مع خيانة الشريك.فمثلا؛ حينما راود زوجة بكويث ان ترضخ لاغراء زبونها في العمل كانت بهذا العمل في ((لاشعورها)) تعاقب زوجها على خيانته.ومثال اخر: حينما كانت تحس بكراهية تجاه الطفل جام كلود وتشعر بذنب في نفس الوقت بشبب انه لم يكن السبب بل يجب ان تكره زوجها.لقد كان صراعا داخلها.وبشكل عام فالرواية تروي صراعا سيكولوجيا يتجلى بين هذه الشخصيات وفي اعماقها وذلك من اجل المحافظة على بقائها كما كانت على الاقل..
ولكن ما اعجبني هو صلابة الطفل وبنفس الوقت احسست بحزن شديد تجاه ما واجهه فهو لم يختر كل هذا .
This book was cheezy. The plot was intriguing, but the characters were so lame. In particular, there are three children that are supposed to be 9, 10, and 12, but speak like immature 30-year-olds. After reading the book, I read the "About the Author" section, and discovered that Erich Segal actually has a 9-year-old daughter. Lame.Furthermore, not to spoil anything, but the ending left a lot to be desired. The only positive thing I can say about this book is that I think he did a nice job portraying some of the sweeter moments in the relationships.
I first read this when I was seventeen. Surprisingly, I took a different perspective the second time I read this ten years later.A favorite.
Reminded me of the hindi movie Maasoom starring Naseeruddin Shah and Shabana Azmi. This one's a tear-jerker.
A story of forgiveness, helplessness, innocence,ignorance delivered in different amounts which were just right. A nice one time read.
As I have experienced through Man, Woman and Child and his other immensely popular Love Story, the author explores topics that have been run down over the years.
So the element of novelty is lost; although you must admit that the treatment meted out by Segal to these topics is far more superior.Man, Woman and Child is based on the subject of infidelity and its repercussions on a perfect family.
The presence of the child (from the other woman) perfectly binds the thread of the story.
3.5 / 5Pas disa vitesh, iu riktheva romaneve të Erik Segalit, një nga shkrimtarët e mi të preferuar.
Ky roman tregon se një familje nuk ka nevojë të jetë perfekte për të qenë e lumtur.
Ky roman nuk ka një fund nga ata ku të gjithë jetojnë së bashku, të lumtur përgjithmonë.
Ndryshe nga ato që jemi mësuar të lexojmë, fundi i romanit nuk premton lumturi, por një jetë të re, pritje dhe shpresë.
☺ PS, Për ta njohur më mirë krijimtarinë e Segalit, iu sugjeroj të lexoni edhe librat e tij të mrekullueshëm: "Mjekët" dhe "Klasa".
It is a lot like Erich Segal's Love story: light weight, endearing story, a bittersweet ending etc.
It is an old book and I thought I should read it only because 2 famous movies have been made based on this book and the copy came cheap.
It is kind of the perfect story for a movie.
When I read Love story, I was a very young reader and it made quite an impression on me.
It kind of had 3 story threads going and none of it was fully developed and I found the characterizations to be shallow.
You might like it if you liked Love story.
I hate psychobabble.
And that's exactly what this book is.
The wife, the Madonna, rises above.
The husband, fallible (read weak), gets it all.
Well, except, see, he's butt hurt at the end when he realizes his son won't ever come back.
Sorry (not really) but this 70's bullshit "man is weak, must be forgiven, woman is evolved now that she has her sexual freedom and she can really understand and forgive.
And we'll all sing Com By Ya and hold hands." Except for dad who's day dreaming about fvcking the choir leader........but that's ok, cause......The.....Madonna.
Read this book more than a decade ago when my aunt gave it to me.
I loved it.
Enjoyed rereading bits of it again.Bob and Sheila have a great marriage.
Perfect but for that brief affair years ago which Sheila knows nothing about.
Except that the affair produced a child.
And now that the child's mother is dead, Bob has to take in the child briefly.
it is a sweet story about love, betrayal, forgiveness and for the children growing fast in the midst of a family crisisAnd the ending was painful in a beautiful way.
Deset godina nakon jedine afere koju je Bob ikad imao, zazvoni mu telefon,poziv je iz Francuske. Bob saznaje da je otac te da je majka djeteta nedavno preminula. Bob i njegova Sheila savršen su par. Svi im se dive. Kako će Bob reći svojoj Sheii da ju je prevario te da ima sina? Kako će žena i djeca prihvatiti malenoga? Možda bi ocjena bila viša da ne završava tako kako završava.
Nic odkrywczego, ale Segala jakoś przyjemnie się czyta. Zaskoczyła mnie końcówka - ani negatywnie, ani pozytywnie, po prostu nie spodziewałam się takiego zakończenia historii. Trochę dziwnie wypadło na tle całej historii.
Good book about relationships.
Decent. Entertaining. Easy to read.
Fascinating story which leads you through tough life of an adopted child and his parents. Thoughtful and well written.
Nice. wouldn't mind reading it again.
Touching story about fidelity and loving a person for who they are not where they came from.
A man who has a perfect family learns that he has a son about 10 years old from a brief affair. This news comes because the mother of the child died and the child has no where to go. The man, his wife, and his two daughters are shocked and angry, but they eventually accept the child into their lives. His wife is the true heroine in this story.
Review : Man, Woman and Child.I have heard a lot of Erich Segal, about his immense way of blending the emotions.
More than, man and woman, it was the child Jean Claude who grabbed my attention the most, throughout the novel, with his robust and pleasing way.
Besides, I truly fell in love with the character of Sheila Beckwith for her immense kindness and patience, the way she dealt with the situation, although, being completely torn up from inside, due to the betrayal of her husband.
Sebatang kara, setelah kematian Ibunya, terancam bakal diambil pemerintah, akhirnya sahabat ibunya memutuskan sementara menyelamatkan masa depannya (dg mencarikan sekolah asrama) menitipkan kepada sahabat ibunya yg lain di Massachusetts, yaitu Bob. Menghabiskan liburan musim panas di cape town bersama keluarga Bob, Jane merasa senang, dengan rasa persahabatan dari kedua puri Bob, Paula dan Jessica, juga keramahan istri Bob, Sheila.
Jane merasa bahagia bisa mengenal Bob, karena Bob mengingatkan Jane akan ayah yg tidak kenalnya (Ibunya sering bercerita, Ayah Jane merupakan laki-laki penyayang, cerdas dan lucu).
The author shows the husband Bob and the wife Sheila as having the perfect marriage with two daughters.
Bob eventually agrees to taking him on the condition that his friend can find someone else to care for him in one month.Bob has the challenge of telling his wife of his affair and that the woman he slept with had his son and never said anything to him.
It was a difficult read in wanting Sheila to set aside her anger for her husband and let his SON stay and be apart of their family.
