https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27406704-britt-marie-was-here
She is no longer with Kent and it is going to take her some time to adjust to her new situation.Britt=Marie finds herself in Borg, with a temporary job as a caretaker of a recreation centre.
After a few comic setbacks, and the introduction of a great set of characters, Britt-Marie finds herself being the football coach to the children, that include Vega and Omar.
A lovely heartwarming, and humorous tale that snags your heartstrings for the broken Britt-Marie who lands in the broken and dying town of Borg.
Somebody is leaning over her, saying something, but Britt-Marie's first thoughts are about the floor.
This all coming at a woman that stopped leaving the house because she just stayed and took care of things and cleaned all of the time.
Her cleaning people's things until they just finally let her get on with it.
Britt-Marie also takes a little liking to the town sheriff, Sven, and him to her.
I'm not going to say any more because you really need to read the book and meet these people for yourself.
"If Kent had been here"......Throughout this charming-tender-story, *Britt-Marie*, often reflects on her husband, Kent, who she walked out on after 40 years of marriage.
Stepping into the driver seat of her own life, without the safety belt of her husband, Britt-Marie is determined she can make it on her own.
You'll also be wanting to know...what choice is Britt-Marie going to make with her life...as if the end result is what is important.
Through Britt-Marie's journey and the people she meets, I thought about authentic friendships --the importance of giving and receiving....a little like a fair game of soccer?/!
The courage she has."I first met Britt-Marie in Backman’s novel My Grandmother Asked Me to Tell You She’s Sorry.
She wasn’t exactly loveable in that book, so I was prepared to meet yet another grumpy and somewhat eccentric character in this one.
"Britt-Marie can’t for the life of her understand why anyone would choose to practice an outdoor sport while wearing white jerseys.
"… the only two noticeable things in Borg are soccer and the pizzeria, because these tend to be the last things to abandon humanity." Here she meets a zany cast of characters (even a rat!) and learns more than she ever fancied about the game of soccer.
I loved Fredrik Backman's first two books, so I went to some lengths to get a copy of his third book, Britt-Marie Was Here.
Unfortunately, it feels like Backman developed a bit of formula in A Man Called Ove, and Britt-Marie Was Here followed that formula without any original deviations.
I suspect that I would have liked this one more if it had been my first Backman book.
I hope Backman brings a bit more originality to the narrative structure of his next book -- regardless, I suspect that I will chase it yet again.
Those of you who have read My Grandmother Told Me to Tell You She's Sorry, will remember Britt-Marie.
That book gives you the background of Britt-Marie while she was still married.
But Kent hasn't appreciated her brand of obsessive loyalty and has had an affair and she has left him.
Britt-Marie is a weird bird.
She's socially awkward, more than a little obsessIve on how things should be done and totally tactless.
“The only two noticeable things in Borg are soccer and the pizzeria, because these tend to be the last things to abandon humanity.”This book will have you laughing and crying, sometimes at the same time.
Another wonderful book by Backman.
This is about Britt-Marie, a 63-year-old divorcee, seemingly starting her life over.
She has lived her life patently unappreciated by her husband Kent - he took no notice of her cleaning, her superior use of baking soda or the importance of a properly made bed *same tho*, to the point of being wholly unnoticed.“She wonders how much space a person has left in her soul to change herself, once she gets older.
In the end, this was actually an incredibly ordinary story but Backman found a way to show the beauty in that.
Backman is expert at making me fall in love with his characters -- annoying on the outside, utterly charming on the inside. His better-known book, "A Man Called Ove," has more straightforwardly good and bad characters that are easier to like and dislike, then ending a crowd pleaser. Here he takes on the monumental challenge of nuance -- characters which are both good and bad, endings that are not pat -- & he does admirably.
A minor character in My Grandmother Asked Me to Tell You She's Sorry, Britt-Marie was instantly disliked in that book and is not well liked in the beginning of this one either.
However, Fredrik Backman has this endearing way of making old curmudgeons likeable and being extremely successful at it (i.e. Ove and Britt-Marie).
Fredrik Backman's A Man Called Ove was one of my favorite books ever.
I didn't think it was possible for Mr. Backman to write another book that I'd love as much as "Ove" but if truth be told, I love this one more.
The publisher sent me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
After reading Fredrik Backman's first novel  A Man Called Ove earlier this year, I was contacted by the publisher to read & review his latest release, Britt-Marie Was Here.
Even though I wasn't obsessed with A Man Called Ove, I thought it was incredibly quirky, funny and touching, so I figured I would give this one a shot.And I'm so glad I did.
It's a heartwarming story about Britt-Marie, a rather particular elderly woman who finds herself thrust into a new situation in life.
My inauguration into the world of Backman.I wasn't sure about it for the first 50 pages thinking this character is whacked and do I really want to read about a 64 year old woman who is only just finding herself after years of repression?
She takes a job in Borg - a village dying with businesses closing up but here ironically, is where her life begins.What a quirky character.
I'm not sure I would have picked this one up if I'd read his others - which I plan on doing.
As for the ending, I don't like coming to my own conclusions.3* as Britt is a memorable character.
Some of the conversations in the novel left me annoyed and bewildered as the characters actions and conversations rarely made sense and the humor was totally lost on me.I think having read Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine
just paled in comparrison and therefore a disappointing read for me.
Britt-Marie was sort of a married woman.
If it wasn't for her husband's heart attack while being with his mistress, Britt-Marie might still have been happily locked away in her forty-year-old marriage, where she loved her balcony and her total dedication to her husband.
It was Kent's only passion in life, apart from being married to his entrepreneurial business and his mistress.
Borg and Britt-Marie would never be the same again.As the two previous books, this was a really good read.
I laughed and cried for Britt-Marie and her new town.
Dying relationships and dying economies come together in this novel of a late middle-aged woman who has left her old life with no real idea of who she is or where she's going -- physically, geographically or emotionally.
Backman's book is her journey of self-discovery and her/Borg's discovery of each other.Britt-Marie has been a wife and homemaker for her entire adult life but now circumstances have led her to a point where she must change---and this is so difficult for her.
The tiny town of Borg had no idea what was coming---and neither did Britt-Marie.At times I truly wondered about this woman--then I reached my first laugh out loud moment.
In her new role as caretaker of the recreation center, Britt-Marie finds herself slowing finding herself warming up to the residents of Borg, The young people have little to do except play soccer, and as she warms up to a few select residents (including a rat), the residents begin to involve her in their lives, their worries, as they begin to open themselves to her, she begins to feel more “at home.” Still, there is Kent in the back of her mind, her philandering husband who she has spent most of her life taking care of.
You see, Britt-Marie does not judge people. No, certainly not. That would be uncivilized. "Britt-Marie would obviously never consider the woman to be "fat," because Britt-Marie is absolutely not the kind of person who pigeonholes people like that, but it does strike her how wonderful it must be for the woman to go through life so untroubled by her cholesterol levels." Again, you see, it's just a matter of their being a wrong way to do things and a correct way. A clean, hygienic way. Unfortunatel
Unfortunately, and quite baffling to Britt-Marie, no one seems to care for, appreciate, or even notice the correct and clean and hygienic way of doing things.
For years, Britt-Marie had dinner ready at six o'clock, as any person not raised by wolves would, and her husband Kent never said a word in thanks.
Britt-Marie spent so much her life worrying about what other people thought of her, of how scandalous it would be to have someone see an unmade bed or muddy shoes tracking on the floor, only to realize at age 63 that no one's thought about her much at all.
I think Ove fans will be very much at home with Britt-Marie.
Newly laid turf and sunny stories.'This is no doubt true of many small towns around the world, but Borg is the unlikely place where Britt-Marie (only her deceased sister was ever allowed to call her Britt) finds herself after her marriage disintegrates.
More than a little OCD, Britt-Marie judges people by their cutlery drawers and is obsessed with Bicarb of Soda and Faxin window-cleaner.
She has precise and regimented ways of doing things "after all, we're not animals, are we?"For the fastidious Britt-Marie, this new world of noisy children, muddy floors, and a roommate who is a rat (literally), is a hard adjustment.
5★Loved it! Britt-Marie is an unappreciated social misfit, overlooked and living in the shadows of people who are more important, much like the author’s famous Ove from A Man Called Ove. She is as stubbornly awkward and set in her ways as Ove. She wonders why people look offended or startled when she says things to be sociable. “It’s very courageous of you to wear your hair so short when you have such a large forehead.” or “It was very brave of you, putting that tie on. Because it looks absolute
‘Three o’clock?’‘I’m fully booked today—‘ ‘I could also manage four or even five o’clock,’ Britt-Marie offers, conferring with herself.‘We close at five today,’ says the girl.‘Let’s say five o’clock then.’ ‘What?
No, we close at five—‘‘We certainly can’t have a meeting later than five, ‘ Britt-Marie protests.‘What?’ says the girl.Britt-Marie smiles with enormous, enormous patience.‘I don’t want to cause a scene here.
Britt-Marie squeezes her container of bicarbonate of soda until it has dents in it.‘I’m here,’ she whispers, wishing that Sven was here so she could tell him.It’s a remarkable club.
Brit-Marie Was Here by Fredrik Backman is a 2016 Atria Books publication.
I laughed, got angry, worried, and cried, but closed the book feeling like I’d been on a special journey with Britt-Marie in her quest for purpose, belonging and overdue self-discovery.
Britt-Marie is not exactly the warmest person in the world when we first meet her, but I still liked her.
Britt-Marie is a character I will remember for a long time to come and am so happy I was able to meet her and experience her awakening and personal growth.
3.5 Stars "You are not alone if someone needs you." Backman does it again....creates a one-of-a-kind quirky character, but this one just wants to be loved, needed and remembered.The laughs begin early on as an honest (to a fault) and forthright 63 year old Britt-Marie enters into a conversation with a girl working in the unemployment office. Desperately in need of a job to improve her self-esteem and need to be useful, Britt-Marie unknowingly proceeds to insult the girl with a so-called complime
Backman does it again....creates a one-of-a-kind quirky character, but this one just wants to be loved, needed and remembered.The laughs begin early on as an honest (to a fault) and forthright 63 year old Britt-Marie enters into a conversation with a girl working in the unemployment office.
There the relationship and daily harassment begins and does not end until temporary employment is secured in the little ghost-like town of Borg.BRITT-MARIE WAS HERE started off really strong for me, but lost momentum when the storyline moved to Borg; picked up again when Matt (the husband) and Sven (the policeman) entered the picture, but lulled again with an ending a bit too ambiguous for me.Overall, a very strong 3.5 Star read.
The thing that had me sceptical was the protagonist, Britt-Marie, who is quite a character!
This makes her quite a rude and quirky character that I wasn't sure I was up for reading a whole book about.
The things that made me love this book are: Britt-Marie, the town of Borg and all of its (10?) inhabitants, the humour, the dynamic characters, and the open ending is what convinced me in the end that this is one of the best books I've read so far this year!
I feel like the jerkiest of jerks here, but I was honestly just kind of bored with this one.
If you liked Backman's A Man Called Ove, there's a good chance that you will like this one, too.
In my Ove review, I commented that Backman toed the line of treacly without falling completely in.
Maybe he finally fell; I think that reading another book that was so similar thematically was just too much saccharine for me.
Britt-Marie was fine, but I felt like I was reading something I'd already gone through before and I found myself struggling to engage.
Because I'm a jerk.
There was a lot to enjoy in this book, but there were also things which I felt did not work.My biggest disappointment was with Britt-Marie herself.
Why would everyone she meets instantly like her when she is so rude and socially inept?I struggled with the first part of the story but then got caught up in the characters and was really enjoying it.
If any of my Goodreads friends are reading this who did understand please pm me and let me know.Overall three stars because I did enjoy the story, Britt-Marie was frequently funny,several of the other characters were really well drawn and the author does write nicely.
My second Fredrik Backman book and I know I will read anything he brings out. Initially his books come across as quite light hearted reading but as you read more about the various characters, and become more invested in them, they become so much more. His stories are heart warming and funny, a great combination.
Britt-Marie was an intensely unlikable woman in My Grandmother Asked Me to Tell You She's Sorry.
It should be mentioned that, although I highly recommend reading My Grandmother Asked Me to Tell You She's Sorry, and you will be even more impressed by Britt-Marie in this book if you do, you won't have any trouble at all reading this as a stand-alone.
Thus begins Britt-Marie's journey toward independence, friendships, and self-actualization(!).
It is a beautiful thing, how Britt-Marie became such a vital part of the community.
Britt-Marie is just a little bit crazy.
Britt-Marie has reasons for being this way.
Britt-Marie was a character in this author's second book, "My Grandmother Told Me To Tell You She's Sorry".
I grew to love her and her capacity for change, and I especially loved the ending of this book and the way it allows me to think of Britt-Marie tooling around out there in her white car with one blue door, becoming "a person who jumps".I truly love this author's books and his heartbreaking characters and their courage in facing life.
Ove, Grandma, and Britt-Marie; keep em coming, Mr. Backman!
Absolutely, one of the most charming novels I've read. Fredrik Backman has a wonderful way of finding beauty in the most ordinary places. Both literally and figuratively. Britt-Marie is a character that I will definitely remember for a long time. 4 stars.
Britt-Marie has the excuse of being unfamiliar with football at the beginning of the story, but I got the feeling Backman never really kicked a ball in his life and all his research into the subject comes from books or friends.>><<>><<>><<>><<Having got off my chest all the negative vibes the story induced in me, I must confess that I actually liked the novel and its main character - Britt-Marie.
Here's a Maslow reference used by Britt-Marie to describe her life that I would like to learn more about: The first stage is about people's most basic needs.
All in all, I gave it 4.25 stars as it was better than a 4 but I couldn't round up to a 5 on this one.Britt-Marie is in her early 60s and has left her husband, Kent, after she caught him cheating on her via the other woman taking him to the hospital as he had a heart attack.
It makes her human like the rest of us.Backman's style is usually on-point when it comes to connecting with his readers.
I felt the connection between Britt-Marie and everyone she meets who changes her life.
3 ⚽ ⚽ ⚽“Ha.” Britt-Marie loves baking soda and Fredrik Backman loves her name because not only is it in the title but it appears several times on just about every page. In point of fact our author is quite fond of repeats: “If it’s no bother to you. I obviously don't want to cause you any bother, she adds in a bothered tone of voice. It's no bother at all says the policeman who seems free of any kind of bothered tendencies.”This of course bothered me quite often so I picked up another book at 40
But “Ha,” finish I did.To be fair, this followed Beartown and was bound to be a letdown after that and to be fair again, a few of my friends were not so enthusiastic either so my response cannot be attributed to a singularly unfair disposition resulting in a rating that is borderline fair at best.Oh dear, I seem to have picked up a bad habit of repeating myself—how vexing!Up to the three quarter mark I couldn’t help but think B-M desperately needed a glass or two of Montilla-Morales paired with her Snickers bar but she finally succumbed to first beer and then whiskey (we both needed to indulge by that point) and I knew we were counting down pages to G—O—A—L.Reading this was like watching soccer which I have no appreciation for.
