https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12550.Stiff_Upper_Lip_Jeeves
Bertie Wooster is back at Totleigh Towers fighting off the threat of marriage with dippy Madeline Bassett in the charmingly delightful Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves.
A forced vegetarian diet could tip the scales!(The horror is readily apparent all over newt fancier Fink-Nottle's map.)Stiffy Byng, Stinker Pinker, Sir Watkyn Bassett and a bevy of other recurring characters show up to create the usual havoc that is constantly disturbing Wooster's gay bachelor life.
Lucky for them they have a Jeeves in their lives to straighten it all out.Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves is the same old Wodehouse fare, but even more so!
“You wouldn’t think it to look at him, because he’s small and shrimplike and never puts on weight, but Gussie loves food. Watching him tucking into his rations at the Drones, a tapeworm would raise its hat respectfully, knowing that it was in the presence of a master.” 3.5 stars. This isn’t top-shelf Wodehouse, but it’s still a fairly humorous, entertaining read, filled with all of the shenanigans, close shaves, and clever/silly wordplay that make these books so much fun. Jeeves, as usual, mana
“You wouldn’t think it to look at him, because he’s small and shrimplike and never puts on weight, but Gussie loves food.
He’s also eventually able to pry Wooster from his highly questionable (okay, okay, downright hideous) Alpine hat, which, let me tell you, is no mean feat.
“My father’s not so bad, if you rub him the right way.”“Very possibly, but if you think a busy man like myself has time to go around rubbing fathers, either with or against the grain, you are greatly mistaken.”
Wooster is adorable, as always.
But he firmly and decisively draws the line at father-rubbing.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007jqb0Description: Bertie Wooster vows that nothing will induce him to return to Totleigh Towers, lair of former magistrate Sir Watkyn Bassett.
Apart from Sir Watkyn himself, the place is infested with his ghastly daughter Madeline and her admirer, would-be dictator Roderick Spode.
But when his old friend 'Stinker' Pinker asks for Bertie's help, there is nothing for it but to buckle down and go there.
It takes Jeeves, posing as Chief Inspector Witherspoon of the Yard, to sort out the mess and retrieve his employer from the soup.1/6: Bertie is obliged to sort out an amorous mix-up between his friends.
It is Wodehouse world and I can think of no more soothing sanctuary for the slings and misfortunes of modern life.We’re at Totleigh Towers in the company of Gussie Fink-Nottle, Madeleine Bassett, Sir Watkyn Bassett, Roderick Spode (or Lord Sidcup, to give him his new and proper title), a colonial old salt of an explorer named Major Brabazon Plank, Stinker Pinker, Stiffy Byng and her Aberdeen Terrier who – like all of his breed – looks at one “as if they were in the pulpit of the church of some particularly strict Scottish sect and you were a parishioner of dubious reputation sitting in the front row of the stalls.” All very familiar stuff then; while the plot – as one might expect – is full of comic misunderstandings, sundered hearts and Bertie goggling for all he’s worth.Compared to some of the mastery that went before in the Wooster books, this is merely an immensely charming and incredibly funny novel, not a work of staggering genius.
In its own way ‘Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves’ is an absolutely perfect pleasure.
This is my seventh book in the Jeeves series, and I'd have to count this as my most memorable, perhaps matched only by Right Ho, Jeeves. Wondering what this crazy old Octogenarian had smoked while writing this book. He seems to have put in everything he had into this, and then some more. After the half-way mark, I just couldn't read even 2 consecutive pages of this book without collapsing into minute-long violent fits of laughter which has now left me literally aching muscle-for-muscle. Bertie at his Bertieish Best. An outrageous read!
Gussie's engagement to Madeline is at the breaking point - and Bertie is justifiably worried, as the girl considers her him her spare tire, always waiting for her in the boot of the car: and to our intrepid hero, marriage to Madeline is a fate worse than death.
And to complicate matters, the would-be dictator Roderick Spode is waiting in the wings to tear the man who breaks his childhood sweetheart's heart "from limb to limb and dance on the remains with hob-nailed boots" or "pull him inside out and make him swallow himself".
In fact, the plot is largely a re-hash of elements that have appeared in previous books – Stiffy and the favour, stealing objets d'art from Sir Watkyn, Spode threatening to break the neck of anyone who upsets Madeline, etc., - and Wodehouse frequently refers back to those earlier episodes, going over what happened in them with the pretext of bringing new readers up to date.
Wodehouse always carried plot elements and jokes from book to book, but each time changing them enough so that they achieved a feeling of being both fresh and familiar at the same time, like variations on a theme – the ultimate comfort reading, in fact.
But when the love boat of Madeline Bassett and Gussie is rocked thanks to divided opinion on Kidney pie, Bertie's bachelorhood is at stake and he has no option but to play raison-something (wish Jeeves were here to help) braving the human gorilla Spode, the judgemental Sir Wyatt Bassett and a mad terrier to name a few.Jeeves keeps doing his thing all through than the one big flourish towards the end - this despite the monstrosity of his master's Alpine Hat. Hilarious book!
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:1/6: Bertie is obliged to sort out an amorous mix-up between his friends. PG Wodehouse romp with Richard Briers and Michael Hordern.2/6: Bertie tries to play peacemaker when he arrives at Totleigh Towers.3/6: Bertie Wooster is landed in a pickle over an expensive statue. 4/6: Gussie upsets his fiancee when he looks elsewhere on the menu.5/6: Gussie is walloped and Aunt Dahlia sends Bertie on a spending spree.6/6: Bertie is in a mess. Can his valet save his bacon? PG Wodehouse romp with Richard Briers, Michael Hordern and Paul Eddington.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007jqb0
In Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves, we find Wodehouse in mid-season form, even though he wrote it near the end of his life, past the ripe old age of eighty. Which makes it all the more tongue-in-cheek, if that's the expression I want, that the novel ends with a comment about the butler Mr. Butterfield, who is apparently courting a widowed lady in the village, a state of affairs that surprises Wooster:"'But surely he was a hundred and four last birthday?''He is well stricken in years, sir, but nevertheless—' Replies Jeeves.'There's life in the old dog yet?''Precisely, sir.'" (220)
You would think someone would have thought of printing The Great Big Book of Jeeves and Wooster – or some such thing – I’d have bought a copy – I might even have bought a couple of copies.
I’ve friends, they would read this stuff too, I’m quite sure.There is a bit of this towards the end where Wooster is talking about a man who thinks he, that is Bertie, is a kleptomaniac and the man is an adventurer who is forever nipping off to the jungles of the Amazon and such places.
More rip-roaring adventures of Jeeeves and Wooster that makes tea snort from ones nose.Pip, pip.
Most Hilarious! Bertie was in his element and so was Jeeves. There were numerous scenes where I just could not control from laughing out loud.
I guess, if he had ever made it to the real world, I would've been swapping my cigarettes for his reality show DVDs. Although after some time, the whole raged aunt, half-hallucinated uncle, bubbling-romance diva and a butch for a villain square does become a trite, but there is always something about the Wodehouse language and his expressions in the ghettos that makes lotsa book jailbirds like me willing to fly right out their pickles.
After their usual ruffle and shuffle of the snarky situations, the Jeeves-Wooster team manages to come out with just slight bruises on their ego, shinning like spring chickens.
Горе главата, Джийвс: http://izumen.blogspot.com/2014/11/bl...Започнах да чета книгите на Удхаус, защото на задната корица на една от тях пишеше: "Книгите на Удхаус се препоръчват от психиатри като терапевтично средство за изваждане от депресия, но няма нужда да сме психически зле, за да им се радваме." Сега, нужно е да уточним, че многоуважаван джентълмен като мен, внимава никога да не се намери в подобно деградивно състояние, но уви, мрачните есенни месеци понякога надделяват.Прочетете повече: http://izumen.blogspot.com/2014/11/bl...
4 stars. I have read almost all of the Bertie & Jeeves books growing up and many of them I have reread over the years. Now I am enjoying them as audiobooks! I think Jonathan Cecil does an amazing narration & would recommend this edition. Cecil manages to make Bertie Wooster believable, which isn't as easy as it might seem - he gives Bertie just the right amount of imbecility and of the right type.
4½ stars. I have read almost all of the Bertie & Jeeves books growing up and many of them I have reread over the years. Now I am enjoying them as audiobooks! I think Jonathan Cecil does an amazing narration & would recommend this edition. Cecil manages to make Bertie Wooster believable, which isn't as easy as it might seem - he gives Bertie just the right amount of imbecility and of the right type.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
Bertie is coerced (if that’s the word I want) into returning to the country home of his long-time Nemesis, Sir Watkyn Bassett of Totleigh Towers.
Of course, Jeeves comes through, triumphantly having him sprung, only to drop a real clinker: Jeeves is leaving Bertie’s employ to serve as Sir W.’s butler.
And he will, of course, return to the Wooster household where he belongs.One of the best Bertie-and-Jeeves books, IMO.
Furthermore, it contains one of my favorite puns ever.Upon Bertie’s release from HM’s hotel, Jeeves observes:“...your disturbed night has left you ruffled, I am sorry to see.
"You've never kept newts, have you?""Nor, sir.""Nor have I. Nor, to the best of my knowledge, have Einstein, Jack Dempsey and the Archbishop of Canterbury, to name but three others. Yet Gussie revels in their society and is never happier than when curled up with them. It takes all sorts to make a world, Jeeves." ____________________________________________ "Looks are not everything. I admit that any red-blooded Sultan or Pasha, if offered the opportunity of adding M. Bassett to the personnel of
Anyway, he's not so bad, if you rub him the right way.""Very possibly, but if you think a busy man like myself has time to go rubbing your father, either with or against the grain, you are greatly mistaken."
"I admit that I'm always happier when I don't have Spink-Bottle breathing down the back of my neck and taking up space in the house which I require for other purposes, but the girl was as welcome as manna in the wilderness."Having won that prize for Scripture Knowledge I was speaking of, I had no difficulty in grasping her allusion.
Bertie and Jeeves never fail in making me smile. Love the English humor.
'Tum tumpty tumpty tumptyTum tiddly om pom isle,Where every prospect pleasesAnd only man is vile'Bertie Wooster might not be able to recollect all the words to the hymn "From Greenland's Icy Mountains", but that last couplet really was the mot juste, as Jeeves would no doubt term it, when it came to summarising his feelings about Totleigh Towers.Home of the fearsome ex-magistrate Sir Watkyn Bassett, his drippy daughter Madeline, the high-spirited Miss Stiffy Bing - 'a cross between a ticking bomb and a poltergeist' - her surly Aberdeen terrier Bartholomew, and that gorilla in human form, Roderick Spode.In short, the last place Bertie wants to spend some time in, but needs must.
Gussie Fink-Nottle's appetite:'Watching him tucking into the rations at the Drones, a tapeworm would raise a hat respectfully, knowing that it was in the presence of a master.'Every time I read P.
G. Wodehouse, I feel just like that tapeworm.
Bertram Wooster is dragged back to Totleigh Towers and placed under threat of engagement to Madeline Basset or of being jailed as a nabber of collectible statuettes.
And what's to be done about the sorry state of today's savages when they fail so utterly to hit Major Plank with a blowpipe dart?Wooster reflects:"And these were fellows who called themselves savages.
Savages forsooth!
The savages in the books I used to read in my childhood would have had him in the Obituary column before he could say 'What ho', but with the ones you get nowadays it's all slackness and laissez-faire."
A good book. Funny on general. But somewhat predictable. Recommend for Jeeves Fans
Stinker it would seem, is worried that his amour, Stiffy is going off him, so asks Bertie, who wouldn’t seem like anyone’s first choice to dabble in relationship counselling, to help.
He is there to ensure Bertie doesn’t dig himself into too deep a hole, and does an admirable job of hiding his master’s ineptness from the man himself.This time Bertie is endeavouring to help an old friend save his engagement.
It’s apparent that Wodehouse had fun when he wrote these novels.It’s farcical, frenetic at some point and highly entertaining, I’ll be turning to Jeeves and Wooster again when I need to escape the real world for a while.
Though no fault of his own, Bertie Wooster again is courting bad luck. And that’s not all he’s courting. He’s trying to please his aunt, avoid the altar, and stay out of prison. And there is only so much Jeeves can do to negate these situations. Liberally dosed with humor, the more you read about Jeeves and Wooster and all the supporting cast, the more you like them. This audio version was performed admirably by Jonathan Cecil which only adds to its entertainment value.
You can always count on Bertie and Jeeves to rally 'round when you've found yourself decidedly in the soup and make life feel just a tad bit more liveable (and funny and smart and cheerful) for a while.
Delightful, as Wodehouse always is. Literally laugh-out-loud funny!
Hilarious and delightful. I laughed out loud several times. Easy to read, with a colorful and alive language. I should definitely read more novels from the Jeeves and Wooster series.
"As I recall Jeeves putting it once, the mills of God grind slowly, but they grind exceedingly small, or words to that effect."
This book is amazing - much like its author, Pelham Grenville Wodehouse - it is definitely one of the funniest books I have read.
When I was about a chapter into the book, I began to think that I might have already read it - that is how interchangeable P.G. Wodehouse's tales are, but he more than makes up for this with his wit and wisdom.
There was a paragraph in the last chapter, in which Wooster is asked by Jeeves to dispose of his Alpine hat after exercising his intellectual abilities, which made me laugh out loud.
How can Jeeves get his employer out of his trouble this time?
