https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87220.Loser
He doesn't "get" other kids, really, but most of the time he has so much fun with his life that it doesn't really matter.
Spinelli introduces us to Zinkoff in such a way that the reader is completely won over, and then he gradually allows real life to intrude: Zinkoff is awesome, but to his classmates, he's a Loser.What's amazing about this book is that Spinelli allows Zinkoff to hang onto his individuality and the things that make him both awesome and a loser, but the book remains realistic.
It's just that he's found a way to be ok with himself, and there's a glimmer of hope that not all the kids will always think of him as just Loser.
Do we ever relise what really makes a person a loser or a geek.
well i don't know about everyone but i know that i have judged before i even knew what that person was all about.
I mean we all try to be what other people want us to be instead of being faithfull to outselves.
that what this book is about seeing that when you change yourself you aren't just hurting yourself your leaving the people that loved you for who you are.This is a good book if you want to see what i have relised.
I had friends that recommended me this book and told me that the story was great and I should read it too.
Although I read it in a matter of hours, I did not enjoy one bit of the book.
I got bored quickly and lost interest in whatever it was Spinelli was trying to say.
Whether this book had a real moral or not, I still think of this book as plotless, disapointing and had no magic whatsoever if he that's what he was trying to create.
So since there were no special moments that caught my eye, this book went down the drain for me.
With a name like LOSER, I really expected to hate this book and feel sorry for the main character throughout the entire story.
The story is written with an omniscient narrator, and even though the plot could focus on the kids that teased Zinkoff, it focuses on Zinkoff's positive attitudes despite his peers, instead.
My favorite chapter was about Zinkoff's day shadowing his father in his job as a mailman.
He was so happy to get to deliver the mail...
it was so cute!I'm reading this book with my advisory class.
I want them to love it as much as I did.
zinkoff, The dreamer and simply boy I love him and,It is realy good book for the bedtime day after day to the children :)
I read this after reading Schooled by Korman which also was very dissappointing so that could have affected my reaction to this book.Frist off this book is a character study and I perfer books with plot.
The book also like Schooled is about a character who is above the negative opinions of his classmates.
In fact like Schooled Don Zinkoff seems is clueless that he is being teased.
I found the narrator to be a distancing influence.For dealing with teasing and it effects I perfer Bystander by Preller, Blubber by Blume, and The Girls by Koll.
/This book is all about bullying and having self-confidence in yourself. Have you ever get bully from other bullies or have you ever felt like you ar//e the bully? Well, if you want to know more about this READ THIS BOOK!!!
I saw this book in the Scholastic book magazine and did not select it for reading due to the perceived angst I might feel over some mean kids and pitiful character that is bullied.
I have a big aversion to the nasty use of "you're a loser" as I feel everyone has something special to contribute.
Those that use "loser" to define another are the losers themselves as they are breeding ground for nastiness, exclusion, anger, hate, and hopelessness.However, my son was assigned the book to read at school, so I felt obligated to engage in the discussion.
The setting of my book is school & grades in school I know this because the story takes place in school when he was in different grades during his life.The major events of the book where when he was growing and found out he was different from the other people in his school until he found somebody that was weird like him.
person because Zinkoff tries to become friends with other people but they reject him because he's weird and different than everybody else.
Loser was kind of a sad book, still really good all the same. Though it had a few flaws like its lack of vocabulary, it still has a lot that makes it a good book, like its characters and message for readers about acceptance.
Heartwarming, just heartwarming.
This book was okay.I didn't hate the book- but I didn't like it that much either.
I definitely did not think reading it was boring- like a chore- but still, it wouldn't be something I would read in my free time.
I feel like Zinkoff's life is relatable enough, but I find his life...
I don't know...
kind of- unrealistic.
Zinkoff kind of reminds me of Nikki Maxwell from Dork Diaries in a way, except he's...
a bit stranger and is bullied for often.
It's probably something I would read if I was like  that bored - since it's pretty short.
I didn't really like it and i cant really explain what is was about and it was a lil weird plus it was nothing like school and i've been to like 20.
The beginning was a little boring, but it started getting more intense as the book went on.
We learn, very young, how to be cruel and I feel that younger kids can be the cruelest.
And when you are an oddball, a book nerd, introvert, extra sensitive, [MANY TIMES] the new kid and very much the klutz [I would strive to be sick on field day - I DESPISED that day more than any other], you get called names and loser was very much one I heard on a daily basis.
WHEN will people learn that not every child will fit the box you think they belong in?
Jerry Spenelli writes for children and juveniles, actually--his target audience are those in middle grade--yet teenagers, young adults, and adults could totally enjoy reading his books.So Loser is basically about Donald Zinkoff, which is an exceptional and special kid.
Then on the school's Field Day, when their team lost and placed last in races, Zinkoff was blamed and was popularly dubbed as "loser".Basing my observations on Stargirl and Love, Stargirl, and now, Loser, Mr. Jerry Spenelli has a craft in writing characters that are unconventional and unique persons who don't usually follow conformity.
The book was okay but I didn't like it that much. The book was interesting at first, but after 5th grade graduation day, I started to lose interest. I also didn't know what was going on during when Claudia went missing and I couldn't imagine the scene in my head.
It's about a weird, goofy, happy-go-lucky kid named Donald Zinkoff, whose handwriting was quote unquote "atrocious".
And we also know (well, you do now) that Zinkoff was nuts to be a mailman: quote unquote, "Piece a cake ..."We find a number of things in this book.
The end of the book (SPOILER ALERT) he was both stupid and brave to try and find Claudia, the girl on the leash, hours after she'd ALREADY been found.So to sum it up, this guy is both an idiot, and a happy-go-lucky kid, one that isn't ashamed to be unafraid of doing what he's sure is right.
Even though this is geared toward young adult, I enjoyed this myself. Good, thought provoking read
I really liked this book a lot. I didn't rated it five stars because it was changing point of views in the middle of the chapter. It's really a good book
This book was really good. It tells all about how Zinkoff( Main Character) get bullied and get called a loser. Have you ever been getting called a loser, if you have or have not, you should read this book. I recommend to people who have been a bully or get called a LOSER!!
This book moved my heart.
The story is so ...
deep.
Donald Zinkoff, this sweet as sugar little boy who is not the best at a lot of things is bullied.
He is brave and , despite what he can't do, this book makes you want to be him.
You'll want to be the boy who has the best skill, love.
If you read this book (which iI strongly recommend you do) I can promise he will make you laugh, cry, and think, WOW he has so much courage.
This is a book I would read time and time again.
I thought this book was actually really good because I felt like I connected with the main character, Donald Zinkoff.
You get to know his story from when he was a little kid to about 6th Grade I think.
He always thought everyone liked him and he was friends with everyone, even the big kid that bullied him one time during 2nd grade.
So, he made friends with this little girl named Claudia and one night towards the end of the book, she got lost and no one could find her, so he saw police cars and fireman and such, but he thought they still couldn't find Claudia.
The way Spinelli contrasted Zinkoff with the rest of the world: his thoughts vs their thoughts or his actions vs their actions was very interesting and already made me start to think about humans and the way we judge.
The book really made me think about what we consider normal and how the minute something or someone is different, we can't accept that change in our relatively normal lives.
It also made me think about innocence and how it fades over time because society pushes us to be a certain way and not ourselves.
I think that the book really connected to me through these themes.
That was 12 years ago, and I had absolutely no memory of what this book was about until I decided I ought to reread it.I almost want to say this isn't a children's book.
But it also allows a young reader to really be able to insert themselves into the story and be the one the author is talking about.I loved this.
I loved this to the moon and back.
I'm so glad I decided to spend the time to reread it (and it was a quick read being at a lower reading level!).
Zinkoff is a weird kid. Lovable, but weird. Special but weird. And you just know that the when the real world catches up with him and the disillusionment sets in it will be heart wrenching and yet...This is an amazing book. Somehow you can see that the plot is balanced on a knife-edge and despite a certain "magical realism" feel, you just dread that it will take that precipitous drop into the maudlin and yet, somehow this irrepressible kid just keeps tooling along. A great read. If only it could really be like this.
Just read Loser to my 5th graders. It led to some awesome conversations about bullying from different perspectives, about personal attitudes, and acceptance of others. I read a chapter a day and most days the kids didn't want me to quit. Highly recommended reading as a companion to bullyproofing instruction or when acceptance of those who are a little "different" is an issue. Let the kids lead the discussion - they have amazing insight!
I drove my son Grady to Port Neches, Texas today.
It was the first time he'd ever been in my hometown.
(The others were Halloween Tree by Ray Bradbury, and David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits, and the Art of Battling Giants by Malcolm Gladwell.)We both really enjoyed this story.
Several great examples of figurative language had Grady and I pausing the book to laugh and relate personal connections.
Afterward we had a great discussion about the possible relationship between best effort and accomplishment.This is a story about a boy with a heart of gold.
When you look at our society there are those kids who are not good in classwork and they always flop.
Zinkoff is one of a kind in this book where Jerry takes a reader through his life as a kid.
He always gets to school early even when it's the weekend because he loves school.
There are teachers who are kind to him since they see a future in him while others cannot tolerate his floppiness.
I just love the kids life.
Any who, this book is good for children as it also got questions for them and can be used as a learning material.
Um, so the beginning was really boring and annoying.
Actually no, the storyline was fine, Zinkoff was the problem.
He kept taking things too seriously/literally and was extremely..annoying.I know, he might have ADHD, and it isn't good to talk bad about the disabled.
But, he's a made-up character and probably doesn't have it anyways.I think that around the middle of the book, it started getting interesting.
(When he was called a loser for the first time).THEN, OH BOY, when Zinkoff was finding Claudia, OH BOIIIIII, things got INTENSE.There were definitely some funny parts of the book that I can't stop rereading, but other than that the book was....ok.
