https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217436.On_Mystic_Lake
CHICK-LITBLURBAnnie Colwater’s husband has just confessed that he’s in love with a younger woman.
But just when Annie believes she’s been given a second chance at happiness, her world is turned upside down again, and she is forced to make a choice that no woman in love should ever have to make.COMMENTS:Growing up meant to cut her waist-length hair at the age of thirty-nine - a symbolic act.
No more playing the young girl in a woman's body.
Life threw her a curve ball and tested her ability to change and grow.
Giving a friend a new lease on life, being inspirational, was noble.
After 20 years of being the perfect wife of a successful lawyer and perfect mother to her daughter, her husband tells her he's in love with another woman and wants a divorce.
So much for finding herself.AddendumI read this novel back in 2011, and after the latest comment, I decided to borrow the book from the library to double-check how the book ended.
No matter what my thoughts and opinions are about a book, I've always respected all those who take the time to write one, even if I don't happen to agree with their ratings.
The cover of this book should have Fabio on it because it is a pathetic Harlequin romance book masquerading as a novel. The characters are stereotypical and flat. The plot is predictable. Had it not been the choice for my bookclub I would have tossed it at chapter 1. And yes, I am working to have the person who selected this for bookclub removed from the club and placed into a PTA coffee clatch.
3.5 stars. This is a story about choices and how those choices define us. There were certainly parts that I really liked, but, for me, I would have liked the ending better if Annie would have made her final choice sooner so the author could've written more of a tender ending. Some subjects and storylines were tough, but I did love little Izzy. I think if the characters would have had some more backbone, this would be rated higher from me.
another amazing book by kristin hannah! i was able to truly connect with annie and see some of myself in her. authors that can do that for me really earn my respect. highly recommend this one!
My husband asked me, "Is that the Sean Penn movie you're reading?" and I said, "No, that's Mystic River, not On Mystic Lake."I was so disappointed in On Mystic Lake.
(Firefly Lane is amazing!)When Annie's teenage daughter leaves for a semester abroad, Annie thinks she and her husband can finally reconnect.
Annie spent her whole life being a mom, and housekeeper, so I thought this would be a novel about finding yourself, and what makes you happy.
So Annie runs home to Mystic River and her father and promptly hooks up with her high school sweetheart, Nick, who married her best friend, Kathy.
Annie becomes Izzy's housekeeper, despite her father's concern.
For the first book that I've read by Kristin Hannah I was pleasantly surprised.
On mystic lake was powerful and real.
A book that captures the world we live in that vividly is beyond powerful.Annie is hit by life changing events when her husband confesses that he is in love with another woman.
My heart broke for Annie.
I felt so many emotions reading this book it is hard to put into words.
The heart break and romance of this story reminds me of a beloved Nicholas Sparks book.
Empathy is all I feel for Annie and Nick.
Mooi ontroerend verhaal over Annie, een min of meer huissloofje, die uiteindelijk voor zichzelf kiest! Aanrader!
Well at least she thought she was before her 17 year old daughter left on a 3 month trip to Europe about an hour before her husband told her he was in love with another YOUNGER woman and wanted a divorce.
I loved On Mystic Lake the first time I read it, but listening to it...
And my biggest feeling, when Annie's husband told her he loved another woman in the driveway outside their house, about an hour after they dropped her daughter at the airport, when she was feeling so alone and sad, missing her baby so much already, I hated him so much I wanted to ram my knee in his crotch.
I found the story to be so real and genuine.
Annie is my favorite character in the story.
She is so real and she is so easy to relate to.
I think a lot of women end up feeling the way Annie did in this story.
We get in that position, and get comfortable with it, and feel like it is just normal life, without realizing what even happened or how we ended up that way.
I found that everyone is held accountable for their actions which is what keeps this story so real for me.
The only problem I had with the book was the ending.
O carte minunată, o poveste de viaţă impresionantă, poate cea mai frumoasă carte a lui Kristin Hannah. Am citit-o cu sufletul şi am empatizat cu Annie, cu Nick, cu Izzy - personajele mele preferate din carte - fiecare în parte atins de propria suferinţă, căreia nu-i pot face faţă singuri.Povestea este împărţită în trei părți, fiecare din acestea începând cu un minunat citat, foarte inspirat ales."Ca să pornești la drum în căutarea sinelui tău nu e nevoie să cauți peisaje noi, ci să adopți o perspectivă nouă." (Marcel Proust)https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/dou...
Her ne kadar basit bir konu olsa da zaman zaman gözlerim dolmadı değil. :)
Once again I'm impressed by this author. I enjoyed the characters in this book as I felt they were "real" definately recommend for Hannah fans!
I enjoyed this book. I did hope that the ending would turn out the way it did so I was happy with it, but at one point I did not think it was going to be Hannah's best writing. I can't wait for my next read by Hannah.
Thanks Amanda I really like it. Heart warming for the true love
LOVED this book. Finished it in a day. Was a little disappointed with the ending, but it didn’t take away from how enrapturing the story was.
His struggles and failures paved the way to his redemption, and while there were times I wanted to reach into the novel and shake him, I knew that if he had acted in any other way – taken a short cut to happiness or an unrealistically short amount of time to recover from his challenges – then I would have been disappointed and overcome by a sense of having been cheated out of that ‘real life magic’ that Kristin Hannah sprinkles throughout each of her novels.The most wonderful aspect of this novel was the way in which it demonstrated the healing power of a loving and nurturing family environment.
Mas, no final, vá, escapou, mesmo com a (view spoiler)[gravidez inesperada, uma filha do Blake ainda por cima!
(hide spoiler)]Fiquei um bocadito chateada que a Annie (view spoiler)[tivesse dado aquela oportunidade ao Blake, estando apaixonada por Nick.
Ela sabia como o Blake era, para quê dar-lhe uma oportunidade?
O Blake nunca quis saber da família e acho que a Annie, mesmo dando aquela nova oportunidade, sabia que ele não ia mudar com o novo bebé.
(hide spoiler)]Foi pena que no final não houvesse uma cena da Annie (view spoiler)[a chegar a casa do Nick com a bebé.
This takes place on the same day she has waved goodbye to her 17 year old daughter as she embarks on a trip to England.Annie is devastated.
She returns to her home town of Mystic and sets about re-discovering the woman she used to be.This is a story about lost dreams, lost love and about finding yourself.
Nicks daughter, Izzy, is struggling to deal with the death of her mother and it is Annie who helps her on her way to dealing with her grief.
A broken woman and a broken little girl help each other to find their way.A moving story.
What a disappointing read. Don't waste your time.
Meh. This book was okay. Well-written, of course, but I found it very sad and depressing for the first half of it. All in all, it’s sort of a tragic romance. Expected it to be more light hearted when I picked it up. Glad I read it though!
A escrita de Kristin Hannah é envolvente, e apesar de ser bastante previsível, é sempre agradável de ler.
Women who chose to get married and have children and loved every minute of it, but then somewhere along the way they realize that they lost some essential part of themselves.
I too wanted to disappear when my parents died and spent 10 years doing just that…when I tried to make changed in my life and the lives of my children, it was too late.
The parallels brought me to tears on many occasions and I will be reading this novel again.Don't miss this one…read it…no matter what your age, you can learn from this and hopefully make a change for yourself, your children, or better yet, do something before any damage is done to yourself or, God forbid, your children.Kristin Hannah knows family dynamics and she brings to life her characters like no other!
Nick has a 6 year old daughter named Izzy who is very distraught by the loss of her mother that she no longer has the ability to speak.
Kristin Hannah also gives an excellent account of the emotions that each character is experiencing, the gorgeous landscape of Mystic and Hannah is just a fabulous story teller in general.
Perhaps Annie was just so wrapped up in her daughter’s life and in creating a perfect home that she ignored the signs of a cheating husband who had no desire to be apart of his family.One more gripe and then we can move on … I can’t stand Kristin Hannah's abrupt endings!!!!
Another great read by Kristin that I had to stay up late into the night to find out the ending!The main character, Annalise, goes through some life-altering situations.
Anna predictably goes back to her husband right at the point where I think she'll stay with Nick and Izzy.
Anna does decide in the end with no chance in her hubby's behavior to get divorced, and take her baby (with a convertible dream - no less) back up to Nick.
The last wish I would have from the book is to have Anna really define herself as a person.
„Oamenii dispăreau uneori, iar dacă îi iubeai prea mult, cu prea multă pasiune, plecarea lor te lăsa cu sufletul pustiit.” Mi-a plăcut mai mult decât m-am așteptat! O lectură frumoasă și plină de sensibilitate, în care Annie, personajul principal al poveștii, primește o nouă șansă de a afla cine este, de a se descoperi pe ea, cea cu-adevărat. De când și-a pierdut mama în copilărie, a ajuns să se îngrijească de toată lumea, însă de ce ea cine avea grijă, cine o făcea fericită? A trecut multă vre
De când și-a pierdut mama în copilărie, a ajuns să se îngrijească de toată lumea, însă de ce ea cine avea grijă, cine o făcea fericită?
A trecut multă vreme până când și-a dat seama că s-a pierdut, cu voia ei, într-o viață ce nu i-a oferit prea multe.
A fost nevoie doar de un singur impuls, de o clipă ce aproape că i-a smuls inima din piept, pentru a-și da în sfârșit seama că ultimii ani nu erau ceea ce își dorea în continuare pentru restul vieții pe care o mai avea de trăit.
He doesn't of course, and she ends up going back home to visit her father in Mystic.
Nick is going through a trying time in his life and is trying to support and raise his daughter Izzy.
In the end of course she chooses the right path but I didn't like the way the story ended.
Anyway I enjoyed this story, Annie found her true self and finally after so many decades of putting others in front, she decides to take the path less traveled and start living her life for her!
I just cannot stand women that become "complete" when they meet the right man!
Here you have an intelligent women that graduated from Stanford University and then marries a man and becomes "a typical housewife" and then after he says he wants to divorce she goes on to meet the man of her dreams!
The man of her dreams also happens to be the man she fell in love with during high school!
I am desperately seeking a novel that revolves around strong womem, strong women that rely on each other and not some man!
I have actually liked two Kristin Hannah novels very much.
Romances are, to me, good reads when they are not dealing with heavy subjects like adultery, suicide, single parenthood, depression, etc.
When these subjects are involved you need full-bodied characters instead of sterotypes which this book had nothing but.
Nick was the only character I found real.
They were like paperdolls you cut out from the Sears catalog.
All in all not a bad idea for a story, but it would've worked better as a teleplay.
I'm willing to give her other work a chance, but stay away from this one.
This book wrecked me! This is not the typical book I would read, it was for my book club. I don't like sad books, but I needed to know what happened to all the players in this life created by the author. So many emotions ran through me while reading this. Looking forward to discussing this with my book club!
