https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1122175.At_Mrs_Lippincote_s
Roddy Davenant, his wife Julia and young son Oliver and Roddy’s cousin Eleanor move from London s Roddy has been posted away from London (he is in the RAF).
The novel charts their life in the house.
When he had married Julia, he had thought her woefully ignorant of the world; had looked forward, indeed, to assisting in her development.
Eleanor is accepted by the group and treated as a person in her own right.
Oliver would have loved this site:“Oliver Davenant did not merely read books.
This was my third Taylor novel after Mrs. Palfrey at the Claremont and A Wreath of Roses, and I look forward to reading more.Set during the Second World War, it centres on Julia, the wife of RAF officer Roddy.
They are lodged in the house of the widow Mrs Lippincote in an unnamed provincial town.
They share the house with their 7 year old son Oliver and Roddy's spinster cousin Eleanor.Julia is frustrated by the social expectations of her role as an officer's wife, and much of the book is a comedy of manners.
"'Lucky for us Emily [Bronte] was not a man,' said Julia, 'or she might have drank herself to death at the Black Bull. It was better to write Wuthering Heights, but she really had no choice. Men are not forced to turn their desolation to advantage as women are. It's easier for them to despise their passion, quell their restlessness in other ways. The Bronte girls just couldn't slip down to the pub. So they had to take to writing.'"After reading The End on the last page of this little gem, I'm t
Julia, the protagonist of At Mrs Lippincote's, is an intelligent, outgoing woman who can't live up to her RAF husband's idea of a quiet, mild-tempered woman.
It doesn't help that her husband's single cousin Eleanor lives with them, and seems all too eager to take on Julia's role.I have yet to read a book where the mother and son relationship is explored so quietly and brilliantly.
Julia's seven year-old son, Oliver, is a delight to read about.
Julia's instilled a love of reading in him, and together they explore her favorite childhood authors like Robert Lewis Stevens, the Bronte sisters, and Johann David Wyss.
I wasn't sure whether I would like this, Taylor's first novel, in which a military family comes to live in a rented house during World War II.Married to a proper officer, Julia Davenant tries to behave as a proper officer's wife ought, yet she has a basic directness and disregard for social convention which trip her up.
Yet in the end, her honest, sensitive character is the admirable one.In the book's foreword, Taylor admits to rewriting a great deal, "so that sometimes a sentence in its evolution takes a whole page of scratching out." But all this labor doesn't show in her prose, which is elegant and lucid, precise and thoughtful.
New tenants arrive at Mrs Lippincote's home.
Julia, Roddy and their young son Oliver breathe fresh life into rooms cluttered with past memories.
Roddy is conscientious and with a recent RAF posting he is anxious to impress.
Julia struggles with the restrictions placed upon her life and she becomes gently antagonistic and rebellious.Elizabeth Taylor manages to convey the very soul of a person with a deft, sensitive flair.
Her writing illuminates so much in its thoughtful simplicity.Oliver imagines his world coloured with both fact and fiction.
Taylor has a gift for writing children as they encounter and try to understand.
Without the little rules, everything became queer and unsafe.”It is unclear precisely where and when Taylor’s first novel is set, but the reader knows it is somewhere in England and just before the end of World War II, as Roddy, the military-officer husband of 30-ish Julia Davenant—the central character—is apparently at no risk of being posted.
Julia and Roddy, their coddled and somewhat sickly son, Oliver, and Roddy’s 4O-year-old cousin, Eleanor, have had to move house.
In the beginning I expected this book to be like Pym's Jane and Prudence, as both take place in English villages in basically the same time period, employ two female characters who are very different from each other: one an 'unsatisfactory' wife, according to the standards of the time; the other a spinster.
Each work also references famous British literature; here, it is that of the Brontes.But despite these surface similarities, there is something very different in their tones that makes them very different books.
But, then again, in Taylor's there is a complexity that I enjoyed that I don't remember finding in the Pym. I plan on reading more by both of them.
Betty Coles became Elizabeth Taylor upon her marriage in 1936 when she was 23.After writing for well
This book reminded me of my time living in a village in England with my children while my husband served in the Navy.
I remember living among other people’s furniture & possessions, trying to keep them intact with small children.
I remember taking the kids to school, teaching my daughter to tie a double Windsor knot in her school tie, finding places to shop, attending social events with my husband’s fellow officers, going to social events with other wives.
The writing is splendid, the observations of daily life keen and clear-eyed.
Just what I needed in a fraught period of life.
Oliver, Julia and Roddy's son, is the only bright spot, but I had some reservations even about him.
There is even what I think is a coined word: Brontëphil.What I liked especially was how Taylor could make a compelling read without bringing conflict to the fore.
"She is moody and unlike herself."Roddy suppressed the thought that Julia had been unlike herself ever since he had first known her.This is Taylor's debut.
I'm glad I liked it, because this begins a year of reading her 12 novels, one each month.
Read for the Elizabeth Taylor Reading Project.
Reading the books in chronological order, this is her first novel, written in 1945.
Roddy is in the RAF, he moves his family, consisting of his wife Julia, his son Oliver and his cousin Eleanor (recovering from a nervous breakdown), down from London to be near his base.
They rent a house from Mrs Lippincote, who goes to live in a boarding house.
Julia seems unsettled to be living in amongst another persons things and rather discontented with her life.
A beautiful, soulful novel that seeps under your skin.
The pages had personality.»I liked Taylor's great ability to enter into the thoughts of all (including children) with small touches, succeeding in showing the main characters’ conventional side, but continually altering it with irony, self-analysis, and a kind of sympathy that is produced in the reader without eliminating a sort of discomfort.Far from being an experimental novel, it is interesting to see how each of the many chapters (numbered, without titles) seems to end without any immediate consequences in the next.
I loved this book, my favourite Elizabeth Taylor so far. The characters were excellent, I really liked the main character Julia and identified with her need for an escape in literature and daydream from the mundane daily life of being a wife and mother. Beautiful observations of children and life during the war.
At Mrs. Lippincote’s portrays an hermetic household, with stodgy husband Roddy Davenant, waspish wife Julia, sickly son Oliver, and Roddy’s cousin Eleanor, about whom Julia observes, “”Blood is thicker than water.
Sometimes, she thought, that it was thing, this one terror, which forced her to endure Eleanor’s living with them.” Roddy’s a RAF officer and a boring piece of work: he ”ladled out a concoction which was mainly poor Burgundy and bits of cucumber and which the women were expected to drink.” One of the several rewards of At Mrs. Lippincote’s is how Roddy, Julia, Eleanor, and even little Oliver hide their own surprises.
"You can't expect mustard on the first night," she warned Roddy, who thought what a very few seconds it would have taken to mix.Oliver Davenant did not merely read books.
Often Julia would see a book lying on his door mat.
"My mother,"Julia went on, "begged me to look upon my education as a luxury, never to think of it as a way of getting a good job, nor a good husband either, but only as a means of lessening my boredom if I did." But Roddy wanted love only where there was homage as well, and admiration.
Set at the end of WWII somewhere in England, this debut novel looks at domestic life and the expectations on the women with respect to family and the home. Julia is a bored housewife who can’t seem to live up to her duties of mother and wife and wishes for more independence. In contrast, Eleanor, her husband’s cousin, longs for what Julia has. The novel deals with the tedium of everyday life and not much happens, making it a bit slow for me.
"To myself, I seem like a little point of darkness with the rest of the world swirling in glittering circles round me." This is a perfect example of why I love Mrs Taylor's novels. Her books are a mixture of a simple story about ordinary people with a deep wisdom of an observant eye.Here we had a marriage between two people who couldn't create a relationship that would have satisfied them both.But Roddy wanted love only where there was homage as well, and admiration. He did not want merely to b
Her books are a mixture of a simple story about ordinary people with a deep wisdom of an observant eye.Here we had a marriage between two people who couldn't create a relationship that would have satisfied them both.But Roddy wanted love only where there was homage as well, and admiration.
Although I saw their story rather like the life of fighters for human rights.The supporting characters had their own stories to tell too, e.g. Mr Taylor, Leo, Olivier, Eleanor.There was also a feminist touch:She exasperated him.
So they had to take to writing.'"One just isn't able to not see Elizabeth Taylor's wisdom:The awful thing about life is only having one.
I'm so glad I've discovered Elizabeth Taylor's wonderful books.This was a charming book set in WW2.RAF Roddy, his wife Julia, son Oliver and cousin Eleanor come to stay in Mrs Lippincotes house.Beautifully written with charm and wit.She has an eye for detail and people's relationships.An excellent read.
I thought it was going to be some kind of funny wry marriage comedy like "Barefoot in the Park" or the like, but it turns out to be a deft and precise study of a melancholy and restless woman named Julia, who has an extremely precocious son (I read adult books early, but not "Jane Eyre" at age seven!).
There are other strong portraits of characters here, too, in particular Eleanor, the poisonous cousin who despises Julia, and a band of communists, a besotted commander, and a derelict restaurant owner.
Julia, her husband Roddy, son Oliver and Roddy's cousin Eleanor move temporarily into Mrs Lippincote's house while the owner is staying in a hotel during WWII.
Julia is honest and forthright, unwilling to accept the constraints of married life where they conflict with her need to be honest, and this causes difficulties with both Roddy and Eleanor.This is a beautifully measured and precise story, gradually delving into human relationships to reveal the complex and contradictory feelings of those involved.
This was a deceptively simple read that sparkled with wit and at the same time challenged the reader's perceptions of the family dynamics in a perceptive and thought provoking way.
My first time reading Elizabeth Taylor. I really enjoyed these quirky, flawed but interesting characters coping with dislocation and anxiety on the home front in England during the war years. The writing was superb and seemed to capture and convey the essence of these complex characters. Thanks to Karen and the Goodreads Elizabeth Taylor Reading Project for bringing this book and author to my attention.
Elizabeth Taylor Reading Project - August 2018Favorite Quotes: “The exquisite relief of Sunday morning was like slipping into a deep hot bath.” (pg. 170)
Already want to reread this. Likely to be a 4 star on a second read. Just wasn’t in the right headspace it seems!
I thought it was going to be of the time but the simplicity of the story made it feel so relevant for any time!It's the story of a family moving into a house - not theirs - and the chaos that surrounds them as they settle into their new life, and the new people they meet.
The owner of the house, Mrs Lippincote, is never too far from their lives and I enjoyed her and her daughters' cameo appearances!
Very random!Julia and Roddy are the couple who have moved in as the latest move for Roddy and his life in the RAF.
Elizabeth Taylor's first novel focuses on the emotional disconnect in a marriage in wartime England. Julia and her husband Roddy, an RAF officer, are renting a house near the base where he is stationed, a house belonging to the elderly Mrs. Lippincote, who has moved out. None of the characters are very likeable, but it's an interesting portrait of apparently privileged but unhappy and unfulfilled lives.
Julia is the chief character of this novel, come to live with her wartime officer husband ( not, my dears to be confused with Regular Army , heavens no, though Roddy is a gentlemen, ) Also sharing their house is cousin Eleanor, a teacher and a spinster secretly in love with Roddy and who thinks Julia does not do him justice nor act like a proper wife and mother ought.
Oliver and Felicity, the children in the novel are, as always with Elizabeth Taylor's child characters , wonderfully drawn , as are the Communist Party members.
Lovely, lovely, lovely. Clever, witty and ultimately unsettling. Set in the Second World War and tracing the lives of one family working with yet another new RAF posting, it is all about relationships, hypocrisy and the pressures on women to conform. But you would barely know it, so subtle is Elizabeth Taylor.Do read her work if she is new to you. It is the small things that absorb her and in them she reveals some very significant truths.
The cousin who lodges with the family also deceives herself, astonishing herself at the lies she tells them as she tries to fit in with a Marxist group who don’t quite trust her because she is trying to avoid her painful loneliness rather than to establish a Socialist state.Taylor creates a world of despair against the background of WWII whilst weaving in many literary allusions to the Brontes and their works.
It is ironic that the cousin in blind ignorance both envies Julia and despises her for her lack of conformity, not realising that neither marriage in general nor Roddy in particular are perfect.
This is my third Taylor (after Mrs Palfrey at the Claremont and A Game of Hide and Seek), and if anything it has left me even more eager to read the rest of her books.As the novel opens the Davenant family are moving into their new home, a house near the RAF base where Flight Lieutenant Roddy Davenant is currently stationed.
The Davenants have rented the house from the recently widowed Mrs Lippincote, a woman they have yet to meet, but whose presence hangs over the place like a dark shadow.
Full of twists and turns and the reader is left to judge.In a piece she was asked to write about herself some years later, Taylor says:"I dislike much travel or change of environment, and prefer the days to come round almost the same, week after week.
I do not know where English literature -- or the lovely English landscape -- would be without this weather."[New York Herald Tribune, 11 Oct 1953:]*** Some readers despair at the lack of a strong plot or adventure in Taylor's books, but I like them for that very reason.
