https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85818.Aesthetic_Theory
(“The marrow of experience has been sucked out; there is none, not even that apparently set at a remove from commerce, that has not been gnawed away.”) Part of this comes from being an immigrant and having to adjust to the garishness and product-mania of American culture, I think.So big questions are addressed, like: Is art supposed to enjoyed?
The “enjoyment” Adorno is criticizing is the fixation on what do I get out of it or valuing art only insofar as it’s a good time.“Whoever disappears into the artwork thereby gains dispensation from the impoverishment of a life that is always too little.” This seems to be a recurring motif in Western thought.
Dense dense dense.Ever want to spend a little too much time reading one sentence then realize it has been three months? Worth the read for what is going on, but prepare yourself. You are not prepared.
if you want to know where Duchamp got it from and have an almost metaphysical experience of what art is, read this. You may not end up agreeing with him but he will take you to places no other art critic or philosopher has gone..
bible
yay philosophical curmudgeonism!
I LOVE THIS BOOK
Some examples: realist art is "not the imitation of nature but the imitation of natural beauty" (a distinction I find quite helpful); and (in his rebuttal of Alois Reigl's concept Kunstwollen) "it is hardly ever the case that what is decisive in a work of art is what the artist intended," a difference Adorno later calls an "index of failure."
Life happens, unfortunately. It would be swell to exist in a realm where death and history did not interfere with works-in-progress. I jest, I jest. The fact that Adorno had to leave this text "unfinished" and fragmentary is remarkably congruous with the theory itself; a macabre coincidence, ruse of history or what you will. There is nothing extraneous here, not one wasted word. One can read and reread and still not exhaust the page. Banished to a deserted island, this would be the book I'd want with me.

I found what I was looking for...
Dense. Plodding. Important. Adorno is tough. A lot of this is associative and seems like flights of fancy. But the gems of insight that come every 20-30 pages or so make this work crucial.
alike Philosophy of the Arts: An Introduction to Aesthetics and Poetry, Language, Thought, it was never my intention to finish this whole beast of a book on theory of aesthetics. so i don't feel (too) bad for not giving it any rating. that being said, this was actually very useful for the bits i did read.
A real slog.
Posthumously published.
One suspects that Adorno would have culled at least one-fifth of the text had he lived to revise it.
Anyway, it's fully worth the effort because of his radical reorientation of aesthetics and his theory of mediation, which rescues art from the often cold or mean-spirited leveling effect of much Marxist criticism or cultural theory, particularly that brand of crit that flourished in the 90s and was so distrustful of the word "art" much less the concept that all it could do was celebrate "subversion" and "transgression" as though these acts were first of all new and could second of all change the world and replace notions of quality and cultural value, however relative those notions may be.
pretty great, stimulating theory of literature, until he starts looking at specific poems and poets, and you realise that Adorno is not actually a very good literary critic. apparently once he comes down out of critiques of heidegger and hegelian dialectic to actual flat-surfaced, ambiguous signifiers, there occurs that most common syndrome: the altitudinal brain seizure. also, proceeds to deconstruct a lot of very reductive labels, and then just calls Celan "hermetic". and Celan was not happy. and Celan was right.
It is a philosophical book and that brings with it a difficulty. I read it it in German and that increased the difficulty, since German sentences are neverending and can be a whole paragraph long.Who is interested in knowing what beauty is and what the nature of beauty and Art is then this is the right book.
Moni ei tiedä että kääntäjä on jättänyt merkittävät osaa kirjaa kääntämättä. Asia kyllä mainitaan esipuheessa, mutta kääntämättä on jäänyt otsikon Paralipomena alle kootut fragmentit, joille ei ollut vielä löytynyt paikkaa kokonaisuudessa, kun Adorno kuoli kesken työn 1969. Myöskään itsenäinen essee taiteen alkuperästä ei sisälly suomennokseen.
This is on my reread list. It was to have formed the foundation of the Dissertation, if I had actually written it. Adorno poses the problem of art and art theory in the twentieth century as the continuous re-orientation of art and theory in continous tension over innovation, representation and language. A must read (or in my case) reread.
Adorno's style is headspinning. The insight isscatter-shot at first but sinks in later. In thecurrent theoretical climate, though, there is somequestion whether his focus on self-contained aesthetic objects, or the categorical autonomy of art as art,willsurvive.
This is probably Adorno's most important work. I realize this is a decent translation into English. I liked the earlier one even better. I'm not sure it needed to be retranslated.
really condense. further reading needed
Excellent work, superb analysis and great outcome!
Another rewarding read from one of the best art theorists around.
http://www.goodreads.com/images/layou...
"Late works are the catastrophes in the history of art, embodying radical discontinuity."
Very difficult book on philosophy and art. Hope to finish sometime in the next 10 years!
Beauty is a funnel-cloud, transporting itself in the shapes it assumes by its turbulent motion.
I would give it five stars if I really felt I understood it deeply, nevertheless it is well marked and frayed.
Dense at times. Hurried at others. Be back to give my thoughts.
