https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15888.An_Instance_of_the_Fingerpost
”When in a Search of any Nature the Understanding stands suspended, then Instances of the Fingerpost shew the true and inviolable Way in which the Question is to be decided. These Instances afford great Light, so that the Course of the Investigation will sometimes be terminated by them. Sometimes, indeed, these Instances are found amongst that Evidence already set down.”  --Francis Bacon, Novum Organum Scientarum, Section XXXVI, Aphorism XXI  Oliver Cromwell, not really relevant to this book exc
He wasn’t that worried about the extent of his power as he was more concerned about fornicating, gambling, and having the best possible time that English peasant taxes could buy.
Our first narrator is Marco da Cola, a rather flamboyantly dressed young man from Venice who is in London on business for his father.
The reader feels like an investigator, barraged with different views, conflicting stories, and it is only in the final moments of the book that most of us will discover that we were wrong.
Still one of the best books I've ever read, this has something for everyone. It's a mystery, it's history, it's science, it's drama, it's amazing. It's really long too, but that just makes it better- by the time you finish it you'll be sorry it wasn't longer.
Frankly, I couldn’t give a stuff if some shouldabeen rich young sprog got hornswoggled in the 17th century, I mean, the goodly realm of Great Britain had just been through 20 years of civil war and there was an awful lot of horns swoggled, of that you can be sure.
The first of the four long narratives we have here is actually pretty good stuff, a perky Italian geezer getting involved with blood transfusions and the said murder in 1662 when King Charles has just been restored to the throne and the air was thick with a great many cloaks and accompanying daggers.
What sticks in my mind about this book is being consumed with fury for 1/4th of it--and then having the following conclusion be the greatest revenge. A really excellent novel with some very unreliable narrators and detailed characterization. I was amazed at how everything fit together by the end.
Along with the new areas of philosophy, which includes the budding knowledge of medicine, alchemy and belief in witchcraft still exist.
Someday I will likely read this again to try to trace how Pears did this slight of hand.One quote from the book I'll add as a socio-political aside, acknowledging this is a book written in modern times to reflect 17th century attitudes.
An unfortunate outcome, which those who believed in her guilt considered divine Providence."Seems to me I recall a 21st century politician espousing this same belief about rape, sadly.
This is one of the few books that I felt compelled to start immediately again, from page one, after reaching the end -- even though it has close to 700 pages.The story of this thriller is retold, in succession, by four different people.
And that is why I wanted to read it again: to pay attention to the structure and to how the story is woven by different points of view, and see where the liar has fabricated or left holes.I am writing this review years after having read the book.
An Instance of the Fingerpost is a long but involving book, which pays great attention to its historical setting and theme, but at the same time manages to weave in a compelling, involving mystery, full of smoking guns and false trails, and one which will not reveal itself to the reader until the very end to the book.The book is set in Oxford in 1633, after the end of the English Civil War, just after the monarchy of King Charles II has been restored.
I’m not joking here, by the way, and it’s very important to the story that these men are deeply religious.Because what are witness accounts if not subjective interpretations of the truth?Marco da Cola, the Venetian son of a merchant, on business in London who ends up in Oxford, is the first to tell his version of the people he meets, the murder he doesn’t witness (none of them actually sees how the victim is murdered), Sarah Blundy’s trial and death and the aftermath.
We closely observe a "witch" (and her craft), a physician who badly wishes to complete the first modern book on anatomy, the second-greatest mathemetician in England (behind Newton), and get glimpses of other luiminaries such as Robert Boyle of the famous gas law and Thurloe of political intrigue forgotten by all but scholars of the time.
http://www.nytimes.com/books/98/03/22...http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/...http://www.avclub.com/review/iain-pea...http://bookpage.com/reviews/970-iain-...http://www.publishersweekly.com/978-1...I would like to note that none of these reviewers expect to "like" the 17th century characters that play in the novel.
well, I guess it's sort of read.I mean, I read as damn much as I could. which was roughly 1/3. it was going nowhere, and honestly, I didn't find it compelling enough to move much further. there's a sort of mystery I couldn't really get into, and there's regular (and, at the end of the book, carefully cited) appearances by british scientists and philosophers of the period, but there was nothing that actually made me want to pay attention. I didn't care about the characters or their progress.
Uses multiple narrators to tell the story, each one revealing a bit more of the truth, which is intriguing. The only problem is the book is tedious and the payoff is not worth the ride.
A story told in four sections, each told in the first person by a different character, and set in England during the Reformation, this is a gripping tale and intriguing mystery. What you think the story is about after reading the first section mutates and evolves to a quite surprising ending. If you like mystery, beautiful prose, and fascinating characters, pick this up. You won't easily be able to put it down.
Unlike writers attempting valiantly to fashion together something new from the fall of Anne Boleyn or similar, An Instance of the Fingerpost offers fresh material even for the hardened historical fiction fiend such as myself.
Pears takes his title from Francis Bacon's Novum Organum and indeed each of the four sections of the novel are preceded by epigraphs from that book, but really what it signifies is that the fingerpost, like a signpost, points the way.
This is definitely Iain Pears’ most ambitious novel – but I didn’t like it the best.I also wish I’d known in advance that the whole concept of the novel is that you’re going to hear the whole story, repeatedly, from different perspectives.
Certainly, seeing the events through a different perspective, there are further revelations… but the ‘that’s it?’ realization was a bit of a let-down.‘An Instance of the Fingerpost’ is a 17th-century British mystery-drama.
I’d still recommend it to anyone who likes complex mysteries and a 17th-century historical setting.
Although each narrator covers the exact same event (the murder of Jeremy Grove and subsequent arrest and execution of Sarah Blundy), their perceptions are radically different enough that you never feel like you're reading the same story over and over.I was worried that this was going to be yet another one of those "It's up to you to decide what the truth is" deals (see: Sarah Dunant's Mapping the Edge), but the fourth narrator gives a sense of finality to the entire book.
And then - this is the technical tour de force - they are overlaid, wound together, and prove to be complementary threads in an even more complex and interesting tale, leading to an explosive & moving climax.If that were all, I'd admire the book, but perhaps not rate it so highly.
What I enjoy is that each part of the whole doesn't read as part of an academic exercise; each story is perfectly rounded, beautifully told, and peopled with fully realised characters.
This is one of the most well-crafted, meticulously written, daring, busy, fun, and intriguing books I've ever read. It combines shifting points of view, murder, early experiments with blood transfusion, international intrigue, hidden identities, the Restoration and Catholic/Protestant politics, and insanity into a rollicking, erudite, challenging, and delightful read. You'll be amazed at the audacity of the author as he begins his high-wire act, and you'll be even more amazed and gratified when he pulls it off. Very satisfying, this book is an intellectual feast.
This is a good book, don't let the measly three stars tell you any differently. The author juggles the contrasting views of the unreliable narrators with veritable finesse, so the solution to the mystery isn't revealed till the very last pages. However, I do not like unreliable narrators, especially those that largely treat anyone that isn't an affluent man with outright disrespect. So, this was very well-written; I just spent too much time being pissed at the narrators to be bothered to give a more favorable rating.
Pear's complex intermingling of fictional and historical characters captures the byzantine structure of political life during the English Restoration while his use of multiple narrators reveals the subjective nature of personal testimony and the difficulty in ascertaining the objective truth.
So I guess it fits that I find his books to be high quality fiction that's excellent and sometimes just a little above my head.I actually liked An Instance of the Fingerpost even better than the previous Iain Pears book I read, Stone's Fall, which I also found enjoyable and impressive and just a bit beyond me at times but not to the point where I couldn't appreciate the reading experience.
Kudos to Iain Pears for pulling off all of these unreliable narrators so masterfully, giving each one their own perspective and area of paranoia and egotism and building the reader's tension and curiosity throughout the book.
short review on 3rd read in 2015:- after Arcadia which the author hyped as a complex novel needing a
This is still the gold standard of all historical fiction for me.
The four contemporary accountings of the same events, the disagreement between the various witnesses, the lofty intellectual language, the extensive historical accuracy of the period and location...
this is just what great historical fiction is supposed to be.
I've read several of this author's other works now and they're all good, but this is simply that much better.
Fascinating period, great characters, and a very clever, engrossing story told through the various people who were witness to it.
A great recipe that few authors have the talent to follow.
I loved, loved, loved this book.
735 pages, and it wasn't even worth one star.For the first hundred pages, the book was so dull that I trudged along, hoping it would get better.
The writer killed off the only charismatic character in the book, and showcased the most villainous.
In the final segment, a decent character came back into play, and things started looking up – until, that is, the author decided to cheer the reader by introducing the Theology card.
Neat, but next time I hope he learns not to lay down a concrete foundation just to build a house of shit.
Oxford, England 1663, more than 20 years of civil and religious upheaval.
So begins Iain Pears's crafty, utterly mesmerizing intellectual thriller, An Instance of the Fingerpost.
As haunting as The Name of the Rose, it is a novel about deception and self-deception, about the scientific method and Jesuitical chicanery, above all about political expedience and religious transcendence.
But with perfect mastery Pears gradually takes us from an unexplained death in a small college town to a revelation that could shake the foundations of England and the world.
An interesting concept, meticulously executed...but it didn't work well for me.
The book is split between four narrators, each describing essentially the same set of events from his own perspective.
The storyline is relatively interesting, particularly towards the end.
But I didn't find any of the four narrators to be particularly compelling and the story ended up feeling slow and disjointed.
Also, perhaps due to the book's structure, the revelation felt anticlimactic when it finally arrived.
Finally, the murder mystery played only a supporting role.
In fact, I found I didn't care who did it after reading about a third of this sizable novel.
The conceit of this book -- 4 different narrators each telling his version of the same set of events -- was novel and well-executed, and the rendering of Restoration England was obviously well-researched. However, the story dragged at times as a result of the detailed explorations of 17th-century politics and mannerisms. I would recommend this only to a those with a serious interest in historical fiction.
Жертвата е една, но виновните са много: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...Това е сложен период в британската история (сякаш някой не е, ама хайде).
Гражданската война е сякаш приключила, монархията е възстановена, повечето поддръжници на Кромуел са загубили влиянието (че и живота си), само някои са успели да се нагодят към новите реалностти.
Оксфорд е бастион на интелектуалната мисъл, но тя все още е твърде окована в религозните рамки, за да започне същинската промяна в живота на хората към добро.
Иън Пиърс ни среща с някои от интересните лица на епохата, но основното действие лежи върху плещите на една измислена фигура – венецианеца Марко да Кола, с чийто разказ начева книгата.Orange Bookshttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...
The first narrator focuses on the quest for truth through the appropriate method: induction or deduction?
The second narrator focuses on the quest for truth through evidence of trustworthiness or betrayal, the latter requiring revenge.
The third narrator, a cryptographer, focuses on the quest for truth through prejudice based on nationality, gender, class and vocation.
The fourth narrator uses a variety of methods for pursuing truths, but I'll leave you to discover his methods and biases since he has the priviledge of going last and revealing many hidden truths--or presenting another version of the truth in contrast or in addition to the three narratives that precede his.Even though this novel is about a specific time and place, it examines age-old questions about epistemology: How can people rid themselves of personal bias?
Well-written tour de force set in Restoration England--17th century.Four "memoirs" written by four of the main characters.
Each narration is given by a separate character: an Italian medical student; a young man attempting to restore his father's good name; a cryptographer; and an archivist/antiquarian.
None of these people is completely reliable; each tells the story as he sees it, often concealing events or distorting or even lying.
The first section lays out the story, especially investigation of the murder, then the others tell different points of view and emphasize what seems important to the narrator.
