https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/929587.Tl_n_Uqbar_Orbis_Tertius
Fabulist gone wild: This Jorge Luis Borges tale, especially the first few pages, reads like a cross between Philip K.
5. Mind Games: For the inhabitants of Tlön, the world for them is not a concourse of objects in space; rather, it’s a series of independent acts.
Mooning: There are serious language games and tricks going down in Tlön and the inhabitants are entirely serious.
Sounds like the inhabitants of Tlön take their leisure seriously, since without time and watches, it would be rather difficult to adhere to a work schedule.
At work, I have a book called "Building the Uqbar Dinghy." It had never occurred to me, although I was aware of this Borges story's existence, that before the publication of this boatbuilding book, there was no such thing as an Uqbar dinghy.
Of course, that's exactly what the author was getting at when he titled the book (Borges is credited).
"Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius" is a wonderful musing on the relationships between ideas, the written word, and reality.
As it turns out, Uqbar may not exist (or, may not have existed?) in our world, but may exist in a parallel world called Tlön.
The much later story, Brodie’s Report, in the collection of the same name, has a similar idea: a mysterious document, describing strange people, found in a book: Brodie’s ReportTime and LanguageThis fascinating aspect has since been echoed by many, including perhaps Alan Lightman in  Einstein’s Dreams.Tlon is a planet in Uqbar’s mythology: “the world is successive, temporal, but not spatial” and about actions, not objects, so their language is based on verbs, not nouns (examples are given).
In this fictional world, in some sense, things are not directly expressible – maybe fictional, even?Some “deny the existence of time… the present is undefined and indefinite, the future has no reality except as present hope, and the past has no reality except as present recollection” (or even false memories of the past).
انگار پای حرف های یه بیمار اسکیزوفرنیک نشستیم که رودخانه ی افکارش، دیگه با موتور منطق کار نمی کنه و تمام و کمال تبدیل به شهود شده.به نظر من، این داستان خیلی بیشتر از کارهای جیمز جویس و فاکنر و ویرجینیا ولف، لایق عنوان جریان سیال ذهن هستش...این داستان انقدر غنیه که ما با یکی دو بار خوندن ممکنه اونقدری که باید متوجه غناش نشیم.
یه نمونه ی کوچیکش اینه که تو همین داستان، نویسنده خیلی ساده دو تا سیستم کاملا متفاوت برای زبان ارائه میده.
نویسنده خیلی راحت این دو زبان رو معرفی می کنه و رد میشه.
How do you not love a story which states that "any book not containing its counterbook is incomplete" or describes a reality that recedes-and "longs to" recede" from reality?Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius by Jorge Luis Borges is a story that baffled, frustrated, intrigued, and ultimately enchanted me.
The discovery of an imaginary world whose language consists of verbs and in which there is no past or future excites the imagination.
Borges references to Burke, Berkeley, and Schopenhauer connect the story to its philosophical pinning which it uses as a platform from which to take off.I am reviewing Borges stories individually because they are each as rich as an entire novel (and take far longer to read and reread than their length would imply).
Dense and disorienting. Borges is ambitious and very confident - you'd need to be to attempt something like this. (But perhaps a bit too confident at times; some parts sound glib). Large parts of it read like a thought experiment - a very peculiar one to say the least - and it quite frustrated me in places. But it's strangely very intoxicating.I certainly wasn't expecting anything like this in the Retro Hugo short story ballot. It really stands out from the other finalists.http://www.digiovanni.co.uk/borges/th...
Wow. This is so short but packed so densely with allegory and competing philosophic ideas. Borges masterfully mixes reality and fiction into rich layers. I'd strongly recommend visiting Wikipedia's entry after your first read.
Intertextualidad:Menciones directas:* Encyclopædia Britannica, de Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.* Die
A fictional planet designed by Borges? Yes, please. Borges is the ultimate example of an author's ability to spiral fiction and reality. I guess that's why it's called a Borgesian literary device, imparting a feeling of reality to the fictional and the unreal to the real.I loved all the details in this, and the attention to language, memories, time, and emotions...they're all different in this made up world of Tlon. But so real.
I don't know any more of what I just read than if I tried to read something written in Mandarin characters.I found the book Ficciones, a collection of stories from this author at the library via Hoopla.
"Even more weirdnessFrom page 2-3:"Then Bioy Casares recalled that one of the heresiarchs of Uqbar had stated that mirrors and copulation are abominable, since they both multiply the numbers of man."Weirdness again From page 5:“Copulation and mirrors are abominable.” The text of the encyclopedia read: “For one of those gnostics, the visible universe was an illusion or, more precisely, a sophism.
В предполагаемия Ursprache на Тльон, от който са произлезли „днешните“ езици и диалектите, няма съществителни: има безлични глаголи, пояснявани от едносрични наставки (или представки) с адвербално значение.
Например няма дума, съответстваща на думата „луна“, но има глагол, който може да се преведе като „лунва се“ или „залунява“.
В езиците от северното полукълбо (за чийто Ursprache в Единайсетия том има съвсем оскъдни сведения) първична клетка е не глаголът, а прилагателното.
Има великолепни поеми, които се състоят от една-единствена огромна дума.
В езиците от северното полукълбо на Тльон се съдържат всички съществителни имена от индоевропейските езици и още много други.

"მომავალს არავითარი რეალობა არა აქვს,გარდა აწმყოში არსებული იმედის,ხოლო წარსულის ერთადერთი რეალობა აწმყოში გამოყოლილი მოგონებაა"
The world is changing, in front of your eyes, but you don't know it.
Ik moet echt meer van Borges gaan lezen
I haven't read this one.
That is to say, I have read it before, but I haven't finished reading it today.
I'm still not finished, but I DIDN'T like it.
No matter how I feel about it, I'm going to say I did't like it.And I'm wondering...isn't that funny?
Isn't it great that I'm allowed to do just that!
And isn't it even better that...later...or earlier, I'm allowed to change my mind.
I'm still not capable of liking it.
Maybe I'll never be capable of liking it.
And if that happens, I'm just going to change my mind about it.
There are stories which you read and leave you feeling shattered emotionally or aesthetically.
Such books are a pleasure to read and world literature abounds in such examples.Then there are works which you read and leave you shattered intellectually.
All that you have read, learned and understood seem mere simulacra and pretenses at erudition and scholarship.
One feels this all the more so when the author demolishes every established precept you had about the craft of writing in a mere 14 odd pages.This book with its counter-intuitive grammars, reliance on Berkeleyan idealism and cerebrally playful irreverence made me accept that no matter what I did or tried, or how long I tried, it would be impossible to reach the rarefied heights which some do.
This surreal short story explores the relationship between language, ideas, and logic.
In it, the author, through a first-person narrative, describes his discovery of a pseudo-fictional world contained within obscure works of literature planted by individuals in power.
The book goes into baffling and dense descriptions of the dominant, yet multi-faceted and contradictory, narrative in the imaginary world of Tlön.
The books greatest strength is the way it lays bare the dependency of our ideas of rationality and reality on language.
The third act of the book, to me, contains allusions to the concept of simulacra popularized by Baudrillard; and this was before Baudrillard.

Nunca había leído algo de Jorge Luis Borges y basta decir que me esperaba todo menos esto que leí. Me encanta el mundo que inventa y como lo introduce con estos personajes que encuentran algo casi sin querer sobre el mundo. Esta un poquito difícil de entender porque las reglas de este mundo hacen que el mundo sea un poco distorsionado, en algunos momentos tuve que releer para poder entender lo que se me explicaba.
Dr. Michael Delahoyde from the Washington State University wrote about this text: "Philology here takes on the fascination and energy of detective work.". It does and it's so great. I really loved every single word (even though I think I should read it one more time, so things are still confused in my head :))
This short read is too confusing ( I could say mind fuck at times ) that I had to read it twice to draw any conclusions ( chances are I may read it again ). It has manifold levels of philosophical ideas and subtleties that you just couldn't guess what is real and what's not. It makes you think and challenge everything around. So if you are interested in such thinking exercises just go for it.
Sublimación de la distopía, la teoría literaria, y la ficción fantástica. Cuántas frases memorables, imaginaciones sugerentes, trampantojos de prestidigitador experimentado, porque Borges es un titiritero avezado de las estructuras del cuento literario. Para enamorarse de la literatura y desearla hasta la creación, solo hay que leer a Borges.
This has to be the shortest book ever, where reality and fiction are so confused that it is difficult to tell which is which. It is packed with philosophical ideas - it needs to be read more than once. I hate to admit this, but I needed Wikipedia to help me understand which characters were real and which weren't.
I read an online version of this text, and thoroughly enjoyed it. It is in fact a subtle but intoxicating work--I still remember almost every passage, and can recall every detail of the story, even after many years.
Можно конечно мозг себе поломать о Борхеса. Но оно того стоило.В конечном итоге все, под весом чьей-то идеей, рискует однажды превратиться в (тут главное совершенно-несовершенная упорядоченность) Тлен.
Recommendation: Read the Wikipedia first, drop some acid, then attempt this story. This is a bit much for my pedestrian tastes. His other stories are more accessible than this one (at least for me).
Borges at his best. Up there with The Garden of Forking Paths.
Densely poetic and philosophical. Also guaranteed to make your head spin.
help
