https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906560.Tramp_for_the_Lord
The Hiding Place depicts a humble woman forced into a situation by the Nazis and her determination to look to and rely on God in the midst of her trials.
In this book, though, the author is finally released from the German concentration camp and believes that God tells her to go to America to preach the Gospel.
I stopped reading the book at the point where she decides a whole church full of people is demon possessed and that God is "telling" her to cast out the demons...there were also alleged miracles in prior chapters that seemed unbelievable.I felt that in this second book the author lost the humility that endeared her to so many people in The Hiding Place.
My introduction to the ten Booms. Worth the price if only for the story of Corrie meeting one of the guards from Ravensbruck, where her sister died, in Munich after World War Two, and how she responded to his request that she forgive him. (You either already know what happened or you need to read this book.)
I was captivated, inspired and challenged by this collection of stories from Corrie ten Boom's life after The Hiding Place.
In The Hiding Place we learn of her life in and before the concentration camps.
In Tramp for the Lord, we learn about how she lived her life following that experience.
I needed the reminder that He (the Lord) will give me strength for every task he gives me.Corrie's words serve as a reminder: To what it is I believe, to what I have been called, and where it is I am going.
I feel like life is worth living to the fullest.
Corrie Ten Boom was an amazing women.
Corrie Ten Boom lived the life that I dream of living...
one of full service...
both emotional and spiritual service.
She dedicated a huge part of her life to bringing Gods chosen people, the Jews, to the knowledge of their redeemer Jesus Christ.And although she was human she was able to overcome the natural tendencies of selfishness and human appetites.She had complete trust in God. She was given a great call to serve and fulfilled that calling.
I think it's wonderful that she dedicated her life to serving the Lord in whatever capacity He required, but I think she gave too much credit to her life being lead in ever instance that or may not have been divine intervention to the point of it deterring from her message of faith instead of adding to it.
I just didn't like how she wrote about it in her book.
What an encouraging woman!
To think that in 1970 she came to my town to speak.
Would that I were I alive to hear her!
This book is a must read for long time and new Christians alike.
It is also refreshing the way she deals with her own sin, in that she doesn't sugar coat her life to make it seem she is the perfect Christian.
I only wish I would have read this sooner (Sorry I didn't listen to my mother's kind persistence that this is a book I needed to read), but I'm sure it came at the right time.
A honest and very personal encounter by a person who not only speaks about religion but also lives it fully. One of the few books that give a solid argument against the assertions in Richard Dawkins' "God Delusion". The life of people such as Corrie Ten Boom is a very strong witness to God's presence in the heart of the believer.
It is a sequel to The Hiding place and describes her life after her release from Ravensbruck concentration camp.
We follow Corrie as she travels back to her hometown of Haarlem, Netherlands, starting her new life as a messenger of God, helping victims of darkness find the light through her experiences, words of Truth and inspiration and forgiveness.
One of the more powerful scenes in the book was when Corrie was confronted by a former German guard from Ravensbruck.
In this moment, Corrie ten Boom had to come to terms with her own hatred towards this man, testing her own words and feelings of forgiveness.
Both are powerful and inspirational books.
This was definitely not as good as The Hiding Place!
What threw me off the most was Corrie ten Boom's preaching in churches which I do not agree with at all.
Also, there were several mentions to casting out demons, and one time at a church Corrie ten Boom was "told" by God to cast out the demons in the congregetation.
I definitely agree that marriage cannot take the place of God. There were several other good things in this book, but there wasn't the same effect or encouragement I received from The Hiding Place.*KJV used mainly; a couple other versions used
It's an inspirational, touching story. The book as well as its title are truly captivating. The story remained with me long after I'd read it.She's such a great woman of faith.
The faith that dwelt in Corrie ten Boom has been a teacher to me since I was small, reading about her family and her time in Ravensbruck and other nazi death camps.
While she upheld scripture as God’s one true, corrective, teaching, guiding word to us, and not our own emotions or experiences, Corrie boldly believed that God spoke to her a specific will for specific actions in her life.
Thank you, thank you, Lord, for the life and faith of Corrie ten Boom.
Revisited this title as it is one of my favorites, but this time I listened to audio version. Narrator was descent, but I would have liked a stronger Dutch accent. The book is comprised of short stories from her years of travels following her release from Auschwitz concentration camp. What comes through in all her stories is her absolute trust in God.
I love this lady. I read many of her works in my 20's and her love of the Lord and devotion to Him is something that has stayed with me. More people in these dark days should read her works as they are powerful against darkness.
Corrie’s lifestyle is one that humbly displays her great faith in God as she traveled all over the world telling everyone she met about His amazing love and what He was doing in her life.
What a great joy it was to experience the love of God, who gave me rivers of living water for the thirsty world of Africa, America, and Eastern Europe.” (p.
This is what gave her hope, because God’s love was poured out into her heart through the Holy Spirit within her.
Corrie Ten Boom was one of my heroes.
This book, a sequel of sorts to The Hiding Place, is a huge disappointment.
This book, on the other hand, felt false, preachy, overly pious, and a little bit whiny.
I didn't believe half the "miracles" she claimed occurred, and by the time she decided that the reason she and her traveling companion were so tired in Poland was attributable to the presence of Satan, and once they prayed, the weariness was lifted (instead of the more logical explanation that ten Boom is an elderly woman with an exhausting schedule, and her traveling companion is soon to die from cancer), I thought it best to stop reading before it made me dislike all I'd loved in her first book.
This book is so full of wisdom and love and forgiveness.
The anointing present in Corrie Ten Boom's testimonies made an impression not on my heart, but in my heart.
I can't explain the anointing on this book.
All I can say is it's life changing, and it will make an impact on the reader that that person will never forget.
I'm so glad to have come across this book.
As an ironic aside, I was given this book by an unsaved professor at my university and very nearly turned it down because it "didn't look like my style" of book.
I loved her book The Hiding Place about her family hiding Jews and ending up going to a concentration camp themselves. This is mostly about the author's life afterwards. Very good book.
Great stories about Corrie ten Boom's ministry and travels in her later years. She reminds me of Mother Teresa, as she unselfishly goes about doing good and teaching about Jesus.“When He tells you to love your enemies, He gives you the love that He demands from you.”
I appreciated Corrie's transparency and candor. She admits to not having it all figured out even in her 80's. That's comforting to me, one still trying to get it all together. Inspirational and encouraging.
A truly profound and life giving true story that warms the heart and convicts the soul. Corrie is a spiritual force and Wanda is an exquisite representation of her voice. My soul is uplifted and inspired.
Corrie ten Boom's life is nothing short of incredible. She traveled all around the world ministering and sharing her testimony. I was simple in awe of her willingness and sacrifice. A must read!
Probably one of the most life changing books I've ever read. Corrie's story is a vivid picture of what it means to have a "child-like" faith.
Amazing woman... amazing testimony!
As I have walked the world—a tramp for the Lord—I have learned a few lessons in God’s great classroom.'Corrie ten Boom was a 48-year old watchmaker in Haarlem, Holland in 1940 when the Nazis occupied the country during World War II, and she and her family gave sanctuary to Amsterdam’s Jews to protect them.
Although Corrie was betrayed and imprisoned, and suffered the loss of her family, she survived Hitler’s concentration camps with an unwavering faith in God that sustained her and paved the path for her true calling as one of the most remarkable evangelists of our time.Tramp for the Lord continues Corrie ten Boom’s extraordinary journey of hope following the events recounted in her bestseller The Hiding Place.
I felt like The Hiding Place ended on sort of a cliff hanger, because I wanted to know more about her adventures after being released from the concentration camp. Her tremendous story of faith was just getting started. Miss ten Boom stayed with my husband's grandparents when they lived in Japan, and I wanted to hear about the rest of her travels. Her stories of God's direction and provision are inspiring. I particularly enjoyed reading about her travels in communist countries. Lydia’s quotes "Ma
Her tremendous story of faith was just getting started.
Miss ten Boom stayed with my husband's grandparents when they lived in Japan, and I wanted to hear about the rest of her travels.
Her stories of God's direction and provision are inspiring.
Lydia’s quotes
It is the Word of God that is their foundation and therefore it is essential for the new convert in Christ to have a practical knowledge of the Bible.
More than anyone else it is the new convert who will come under the fire of the enemy."— Corrie ten Boom
Goodreads Quotes
Tramp for The Lord is a book about Corrie ten Boom, written by Corrie ten Boom.
In this book she tells about her life after she is released from a German concentration camp.
She shares all her heartwarming as well as heart wrenching stories with us in this book.
In my opinion Tramp for The Lord is a great book for anyone.
I really enjoyed her stories from her ministry in Africa during a civil war as well as her experiences in communist Russia.
It is a wonderfully written book; however, since each chapter is a separate experience , the plot can sometimes be hard to understand.
This book has further solidified for me my belief in the power of “story”.
That, I think, is a lie from the devil himself.
A weapon of power and purpose and truth.
That weapon is our story.
More than that, ours are merely small blurbs on the plot line of the greatest story the world has ever known: God’s redemption.
Crosby:“Down in the human heart, crush’d by the tempter, feelings lie buried that grace can restore; touched by a loving heart, wakened by kindness, chords that were broken will vibrate once more”.
Really pretty amazing story about Corrie ten Boom and her ministry after WWII and the concentration camps.
The biggest take away from this book is just how Corrie viewed herself completely on the mercies of God. I wouldn't agree with her theological views on everything, but she is advanced in really just acting like a child and depending on God for literally everything.
Pray about everything, completely depend on God.Great example of child like faith.
Also, great examples of God doing amazing things (helping her sneak in Bibles to prisons, etc.)
Another 10 from Corrie ten Boom!!
Her writing feels so fresh, like she's writing from any time period currently or in the future even, giving her stories fresh breath and life.
She walks into a room expecting to make friends, expecting to share her story.
This books is so refreshing in our current political and religious temperature where no one can do right by anyone else and contention seems to be the name of the game.I think we could all benefit from a little more Corrie ten Boom in our lives!!!READ IT!
