https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32628.The_Great_and_Secret_Show
How can I best describe The Great and Secret Show by Clive Barker, well if you imagine the start being at one end of a swimming pool, and the swimming pool is filled with jelly (or jello to some) made from a cocktail of your favourite alcoholic spirits and liqueurs.
And to reach the end you've got to wade through this Olympic sized jelly filled swimming pool, right, so chances are you're going to enjoy a fair portion of it before you get full anyway.
but that's how I felt at times, I started this book in November and it’s taken me six weeks to read and I'm fucking glad it's over with.
It starts with one Randolph Jaffe’s quest for mastery of “The Art”, not just any old art but a craft or power that has the capability to tear a hole in the fabric of reality and create an opening to another dimension called Quiddity.
What starts out as a man’s quest for power becomes a titanic struggle between good and evil where the battles often takes surreal forms.Randolph Jaffe (AKA The Jaff).
With this book is Clive Barker is at the peak of his creativity, here he has created a brand new mythos about the nature of dreams and reality that is mind blowing.
This book literally has shitty monsters made from actual fecal matter!
This book bordered on a religious revelation to me. I absolutely adore the style it is written in and the subject matter tears at the fabric of your understanding of reality. I questioned what I know in a way that harkens back to Plato's 'The Cave'. Is reality real or is it just shadows on the wall inside something bigger than I can understand?Clive Barker has a way of making dark and sinister characters intriguing and not nightmare inducing.
The switching of character's allegiances is a cool trick which Barker has undoubtedly mastered (for no one is entirely good nor entirely evil...as always, its just a matter of selfishness)--also his mythology-making abilities are outstanding.
I mean, several key characters are spirited away for the last (and overly long) act and they are soon replaced by less-interesting doppelgangers.
But I keep thinking Barker got pretty tired with his original cast--indicative of messy story planning.
My advice: Put this one and "Sacrament" in a "Never Read" pile, but still, please, keep Barker in pop culture consciousness by sticking with "Books of Blood, Vol. 1-3" & "The Thief of Always."
Ο Μπάρκερ δημοσιεύοντας αυτό το βιβλίο έριξε (ακόμη μία φορά) τους αναγνώστες τους σε έναν ψυχεδελικό κόσμο.
Η πλοκή του είναι σχετικά γρήγορη, ενώ μπαίνει κατευθείαν στο ψητό από την πρώτη σελίδα.Μέχρι την μέση, η πλοκή είναι σταθερή, το θέμα του συγκεκριμένο και ακολουθούμε συγκεκριμένους ήρωες.Από την μέση και μετά όμως γίνεται ένας μικρός χαμός, μπαίνουν πολλοί ήρωες στο παιχνίδι, οι περιπέτειες που ακολουθούμε πολλές (βέβαια όλες συνδέονται μεταξύ τους) και η αφήγηση γίνεται λίγο «κατάπια έκσταση και πάω σε ρέιβ πάρτυ».
Ναι, μου άρεσε όλο αυτό το σκηνικό, αν και τα ψιλοέχασα σε αρκετά σημεία.
Even better the second time around. If I could rate it higher, I would. Of course, I believe this is essential reading for horror/dark fantasy fans. I will be revisiting the sequel, Everville, next.
This book is a trip and a half.
The whole last 30 pages simply led you into a follow on book implying that this one only scratched the surface of this idea of Quiddity and the iad.
It isn't very often that I get all the way through a book this fat but I did this one and I am going to get the follow up, Everville, this weekend.
It is equally fat but I am looking forward to delving deeper into the world of the Shoal, Iad, Quiddity and the dream world that exists between this plane and the next...
And mind, dreaming or awake, knew justice, which was therefore as natural as matter, its absence in any exchange deserving of more than a fatalistic shrug.”Behind everything — all of life and non-life — is Quiddity: a metaphysical dream-sea, a sort of collective consciousness that is accessible only thrice in life.
At the heart of this novel is a war between two former acquaintances-turned-enemies: one wants to access the Quiddity, to swim that water and know its secrets; the other wants to protect it at all costs.
This is a weird novel, and I loved every moment.
Flashes of brilliance followed with periods of mild boredom coming around with a few more flashes topped with moments of "wtf?" and ending with a "Damn, I'm exhausted." Barker sure likes his epic tales, however his shorts seem to resonate a bit more for me. Good, but inconsistent.And about 150 to 200 pages too long...
Having noted already that as the palate of age matures, the enjoyment of things past lessens, I wanted the familiar nostalgia of a book from my shelf that had my old, perhaps slightly smaller, fingerprints.The first of an incomplete trilogy, The Great and Secret Show is a novel of fantasy, horror, and sex.
Unlike a lot of modern day mystery genres (LOST immediately comes to mind) where writers and producers have a certain grasp of the overall story, it seems here that Barker allows his imagination to run in a sort of stream of consciousness way, not really knowing where the stream's flowing.
Barker is a great example of what modern day editors invest in red pens for.
An epic journey full of beautifully dark events and the characters who shape those events. Barker is such an original. Looking forward to reading the sequel to this before the year is out.
This is the kind of virtuoso performance I have come to expect from Barker (and what I expected, and didn't get, from The Scarlet Gospels).I do have to say that I found this book slightly misogynistic in that Barker spends his verbal acuity differently when describing a character's sex organs.
In dialog, he will have his characters use the words "cock" and "dick" to describe the male genatalia, but in his narrative voice he will describe it as a "member" or simply as "hard"; but for females, he simply uses the term "cunt" (though twice he did use the word "slit" for the same character) in dialog and narration.
Second read, 20 years later, still 5 stars.
One of the worst books I've ever read. Especially when you consider: 1. I've been a huge fan of  Clive Barker  since the earliest part of his career.2. I have met and and talked with him briefly on 4 different occasions over the years, thought he was as special a guy as he is a writer, and admit I'd probably give him a slightly more favorable rating because of that.3. I would easily give everything I've previously read of his a 4 or 5 rating and consider most of his books classics in the genres
, the book I'd left off at, after reading Weaveworld many years ago.I didn't like the story, the characters, the plot, the sub-plots, and was dumbfounded by the terribly inferior names he used in this book.
always had the coolest names of people, places and things in his books (too numerous to name!).
I apologize to the megazillion adoring fans of this novel for my unfavorable review, but how/why anyone is fascinated with this book will be the 9th Wonder of the World to me the many times I'm sure my mind will stray towards this when thinking of 
The Great and Secret Show reminds me of the only Tim Powers novel I’ve read,  Last Call . And that, for anyone wanting a one-sentence review (contingent upon understanding the nature of my opinion of Last Call), is that.In many ways, coming across a book that doesn’t interest one even though it’s a good book makes writing a review far more difficult than coming across a bad book. But if one truly reads widely—and it’s something I take pride in doing—then it will happen. So what then?I could try
. And that, for anyone wanting a one-sentence review (contingent upon understanding the nature of my opinion of Last Call), is that.In many ways, coming across a book that doesn’t interest one even though it’s a good book makes writing a review far more difficult than coming across a bad book.
Barker needs to provide the reader with more human characters—the story of the endless battle between the Jaff and Fletcher has grown thin.
I enjoy a bit of darkness with my fantasy, particularly when that darkness has its origins in our own, flawed human nature, as Barker portrays through Jaffe and, to some extent, Kissoon.
The summer I read this book was the summer I changed my mind about the horror genre.
The story is near impossible to explain without making it sound like a cliche, boring horror novel.
Palomo Grove is a small California town where two ancient powers awaken, Jaffe and Fletcher.
Their presence seems to be having a mysterious effect on the town and its residents.Barker introduces us to the residents of Palomo Grove, including my favorite surly reporter, Grillo.
Somehow, Barker manages to simultaneously develop a large handful of characters and storylines while making the book feel cohesive.
Overall, an amazing book and recommended to anyone who feels the horror genre is tired and boring.
Πρώτη επαφή με το συγγραφέα και -σίγουρα- όχι η τελευταία. Μια θάλασσα αισθήσεων και παραισθήσεων από μια χαρισματικότατη πένα, το Μεγάλο Μυστικό Θέαμα σταδιακά σου αποκαλύπτει το σκοτεινό μεγαλείο του και σε παγιδεύει μέσα του. Θα μπορούσα να αναλωθώ λέγοντας πολλά, αλλά ο καλύτερος τρόπος για να περιγράψω την όλη εμπειρία ανάγνωσης του βιβλίου είναι το ακόλουθο gif:Το πιο εύκολο πεντάστερο μετά από καιρό. Ανακαλύψτε τον.★★★★★
First published in 1989, 'The Great And Secret Show' formed the first book of 'The Art' proposed trilogy.
Barker manages to capture your attention from the start and keep you gripped throughout the 688 pages that form this beautifully crafted novel.
As a series, I would definitely say that these first two books of the art have proven to be my favorite of all Barker’s work.
To quote Barker himself on the matter: “The third Book of the Art takes place in Quiddity, the Dream Sea. I have been planning that for five years, and have 500, maybe 600 pages of notes towards that novel.
At birth, at death and for one night when we sleep beside the love of our lives.Nuncio-The MessengerQuiddity-The Dream SeaThe Cosm-Our WorldThe Metacosm-A Sealed Condition Of Being-The World Beyond The SeaThe Ephmeris-Islands in and on Quiddity-The Great and Secret ShowThe Crossroads-Quiddity-Dreams-Minds-The Center of EverythingThe Iad-Uboros-The Other-Evil Beyond Evil-Behind The Veil-Beyond QuiddityThe Shoal-Those Who Guard Quiddity One of the strongest, if not THE strongest theme, running through the entire length of the novel is that of our dreams.
The dialogue was the worst I've ever read; it made the characters seem like complete idiots and it was not plausible in any way, shape, or form.
In this book it is completely without purpose so it comes across as crude and seems he is trying to offend as many people as possible.*Spoilers below*The synopsis makes it seem like this is a book of good versus evil.
The woman Tesla comes in about halfway and out of nowhere she's supposed to be the main good character, after having a 2 minute conversation with Fletcher before he dies.
I have long considered myself to be a collector of good horror.
(in itself a seemingly diametrically opposed descriptor...)But this book really rips the sheet off of the things we don't dare ever face, let alone think about while accentuating their terrible beauty in muted fascination...
managing to engulf you in a very accessible series of fantastical and, at first glance, unrelated sub-plots/events that culminate in more than a few hints at; revolutionary concepts concerning the philosophy and religion, of evolution, human nature and the existence of more dimensions of reality than what meets the eye.Clive Barker makes you taste color, see music and redefine your accepted experience!
First of all I'd like to say that I am absolutely fascinated by Clive Barker, his writings and his images.
After I read Imajica and saw Clive in the flesh when he was visiting the premiere of 'Lord of Illusions' here in Amsterdam, I just knew I would always try to keep track of whatever he's doing.
It's the second Clive Barker I've read, and although I liked Imajica better, I was again anxious to finish the book as well as 'scared' of finishing it and returning from this dreamlike world to my everyday world.
This is one of the best books I have read; it has everything you want to read about - intense gore, weird sex, and awesome characters.
A large number of characters appear in the book, but the book is long enough for the reader to get to know each of them.
Some descriptions will make you feel quesy, and others will make you want to look away but unable to resist reading more.
Clive Barker is one of my favourite authors, I have read volumes 1-6 of his 'Books of Blood' series and this book is written in a similar style (dark humour, violence, and just plain weird).
The battle is between two hyper-evolved humans who can raise their own soldiers from, respectively, the dreams and fears of humans.
These soldiers are called terata (fears) and hallucingia (dreams).
There are many other interesting characters in this story as well.
The story is very scary, it reminds me somewhat of Hellraiser, like all Clive Barker books do.
It seems the common theme in his stories are puzzles that open doorways to another realm.I would highly recommend this book for anyone who is interested in horror, and more specifically metaphysical realms and wizardry (for lack of a more precise term).
This was the first of what was a suggested trilogy from Barker, now exploring and telling a very creative, inventive fantastical and spiritual while dream-like tale.
Not as truly mind blowing and stunning in scope as his immense Imajica novel, this first part of this tale-which can be read as a single book, is strange, unusual, adventurous and almost unpredictable.It draws in elements of fantasy, religious tale, spirituality, dream and reality and also at times horror and terror as well written as Barker is known for.
I couldn't do.
I freaking tried, I really did.
The concept really worked, but at part three it was like the book was taken over by another author, a bad one at that.
The characters became empty, there was nothing to them.
And the supposed scary parts, to me, were B-movie laughable.
Not scary or even creepy at all.
The dialogue became flat as well as the characters.
The thought that after 600 something pages, there were two other books to continue, helped me to quickly realize it was not a story even worth making myself finish.
Clive Barker is my favourite author, because he's been taking my mind to places I didn't think possible, since I was 10 years old!!! I'd love to re-read many of his books. This is one of my favourite books by him.
-Un ejemplo más del conflicto entre los conceptos y la ejecución.-Género.
En el libro El gran espectáculo secreto (publicación original: The Great and Secret Show, 1989) conocemos a Randolph Jaffe, un don nadie que no encaja en ningún sitio ni consigue mantener ningún trabajo.
Cuando encuentra uno en la Oficina Central de Correos de Omaha, en concreto en el departamento de cartas devueltas o perdidas, empieza a leer las misivas y comienza a ser consciente de muchas cosas, entre ellas que el mundo no es lo que parece, que existen cosas más allá como el Enjambre, la Esencia o el Arte, y decide embarcarse en una búsqueda que le traerá poder, una transformación y una némesis, Richard Wesley Fletcher.
Novela también conocida como El gran show secreto.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
4.5*
Barker in top form!
