https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18889.Lady_of_Avalon
Although Bradley set up much of Avalon and Britannia in The Mists of Avalon, the stories in Lady of Avalon actually take place beforehand, and Bradley spends the first third of the book describing Avalon as it was before it was closed off in mists, and Britannia before Christianity had really taken hold.
Because there are actually three stories told within the context of one novel, Bradley must introduce the reader to the changes that have taken place over time at the beginning of each new tale.
Bradley even introduces a puzzle aspect, asking the reader to try to determine which new character is the reincarnate from the first tale.
Esta parte es, quizás, la menos intensa e interesante porque Ginebra está muy pesada y la chiquilla es desquiciante. Eso sí, lo que viene promete... ¡A por el desenlace! 😍
This book is the prequel to The Mists of Avalon and I've read it quite a few times over the years when I would binge read the entire series.
The second novella is the story of a priestess who is made to marry a Britannian Admiral to tie Britannia to Avalon.
This is the first time I listened to this book on audio and I would put it aside for a year and then pick it back up and then put it back down for six months, etc.
Except now I've picked up The Mists of Avalon on audio book and am reading that one.
The characters are still interesting - it was especially nice to see Viviane's backstory, since she was one of the characters that made Mists so great, and the plot zings along at a breakneck speed.The three-part book, basically a trilogy of novellas, is smart and different from most books on the shelves these days, so it was a nice change from the usual.
And, in general, each of the three parts still felt like the same book and each part was just as solidly written as the others.What I Didn't Like: You ever get the feeling that a book was written just to get it done?
Lady of Avalon is sorely lacking in the philosophical debates that made Mists so great.
Neste terceiro volume da série As Brumas de Avalon, acompanhamos os anos após a coroação do Rei Artur – sempre pela perspectiva das mulheres que o rodeiam. Somos surpreendidos com algumas mortes inesperadas, alguns nascimentos importantes e a afirmação de Artur, enquanto rei atento e benevolente, mas acima de tudo, enquanto homem justo e de princípios.https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
Out of the four books that make up The Mists of Avalon, this one is my least favorite. There was too much of Gwenhwyfar and her whining, and almost nothing of Avalon itself. Morgaine loses her sense of herself in the real world and is tricked into marrying old King Uraines of Wales. There was almost nothing of the strong women that encompasses the rest of The Mists of Avalon.
No man would be able to get to Avalon or even see it unless they were brought there by a priestess or priest that were trained and knew the spell to get there.Part II Dierna is now The Lady of Avalon and she strives to keep Rome's British resourches for the country's own protection but in order to do so she must tie the admiral of the Britannic Fleet (Marcus Aurelius Musaeus Carausius)to an Avalon Priestess (Teleri - princess of the Durotriges).
Viviane becomes Lady of Avalon and the Merlin is brought back by the chief druid Taliesin and Taliesin becomes the Merlin whom will play a big role in the book Mist of Avalon.Over all, the stories were great to read and I enjoyed all of them.
Morgana, who is supposed to be the most "likeful" character of the book is starting to bore me with her "I'm always the victim" hypocrite behavior.
It wasn't even half of the book and I was fervently wishing that Arthur and Lancelot just burned in the flames of the seventh hell.The only characters that motivate me to read the last (and *finally* last book of the series) are Morgause and Mordred because at least I can still see some reason in them.Just a quick note about the Brazilian Portuguese version of this book: it could have been through a more careful review.
Things heat up. The plot gets more intense. Gwenwyhfar is an illogical, self-righteous little twat. Her theology is so propagandized and not really actually reasoned. I keep getting mad and wondering why somebody doesn’t just say, “You’re a bigot. Why are you so afraid and hating? The Roman Christians violently invaded this land, came and started a war, murdered the original inhabits into submission, and then have the audacity to say  our  culture and religion is evil????” And the way she judges
The plot gets more intense.
Her theology is so propagandized and not really actually reasoned.
culture and religion is evil????” And the way she judges other women, can anyone actually be that genuinely hypocritical inside themselves?
I just don’t understand why she hates Druidism so much, when at time at she was going to go to the Beltane fires herself; just the massive swings of erratic irrationalism in her feelings and thinking.
Like how one second she goes thinking so self-righteously about how Morgaine is a harlot, when she’s only had one less lover herself.Errughghgh!
I liked this one but not as much as I did the previous book. I will blame Gwen because she steps on my nerve and I can't really stand her. Not sure if I like hating her or what because there are people that likes disliking someone. But I'm not sure.
I didn’t love this half as much as I loved The Mists of Avalon and maybe that’s to be expected.
Mists is as legendary as the subject of Arthurian legends itself and coming as a prequel, Lady of Avalon has plenty to live up to.
It isn’t tedious, but it isn’t as exhilarating as I expected.
I found the index of places completely useless.
I must’ve looked up at least half a dozen cities or countries in their archaic names only to find nothing, while those actually on the index weren’t referred to in the book at all.
Lady of Avalon, continues Caillean's story from where we last see her in 'The Forest House'. With her vivid descriptive narrative and masterful story teller's art Marion Zimmer Bradley shows us a world as it may have been but touched by Magic. We see Avalon become the home of the priestesses of the great Goddess. Through the cycles of the year and the lives of three of Avalon's high priestesses, Caillean, Dierna and Viviane we see Avalon come to the destiny which is fulfilled in 'The Mists of Avalon'.
Loved it. One of my favorite books, and I consider myself to be a pretty big Arthurian legend nerd. I've read this AND listened to it on audio (with Davina Porter - if you are going to get it as an audio book, I recommend her highly).
Truth said, I've read the four books one after another, nonstopping to swallow. I have no opinion of each in particular.
Noch leben die Druiden und PriesterInnen von Avalon zwar in Eintracht mit den ersten Christen auf der Insel, und auch von den Römern wird ihr Heiligtum geachtet, doch die Zeiten ändern sich schnell.
Aber auf Avalon wirken noch andere, ältere Kräfte, und in höchster Not gelingt es, die Insel im Nebel versinken zu lassen und von der äußeren Welt abzutrennen.
Doch die Versuche der Herrin von Avalon, das zwar von den Römern befreite, aber zerrissene Britannien wieder zu einen, scheitern ein ums andere Mal.Die Herrin von Avalon erzählt die Geschichte der drei Hohepriesterinnen Caillan, Dierna und Viviane, die von Avalon aus die Geschicke des Landes zu steuern versuchen.
I've been reading this series and this book was a little different because composed of 3 stories. All of the books I've read so far at the start of this series were well written. Her feminine perspective is amazing and the does a great job interconnecting the stories
Abandoned because I couldn’t be bothered to care and then I started reading about scandals and the author instead and her work felt repugnant to me. I hope I can still re-read The Mists of Avalon without feeling gross.
5 sterren - Nederlandse paperback - Dank je wel Dionne voor het uitlenen van deze geweldige serie
Apesar de não ser um livro muito muito apaixonante, foi um livro que mostrou imenso, explicou ainda mais e um livro da MZB é sempre um livro dela, principalmente nesta grande saga que é a de Avalon.Uma das razões pela qual o livro não é excelente, e acredito que seja por própria necessidade da estrutura do livro, é que este está dividido em três grandes capítulos cada um com a sua história.
Leiam o livro =) Só vos digo que Gawen faz a dança dos Gigantes com Sianna, filha da Rainha das fadas e que é sacrificado pela britânia.No segundo capítulo temos Dierna, da linhagem de Sianna, como Senhora de Avalon.
The PrecursorFrom before the tale of Arthur, the Lady of Avalon ruled. This story tells of the predecessors to the Lady of the Lake, the power of the Goddess and the Druids, and the conflict of Brittania vs. the rest of the world. Well done!
Only at the end we have a glimpse of Avalon which got me hooked again.It is curious to note that while Morgan has been, for centuries, viewed as a negative character, a witch, sorceress and Arthur's antagonist, that only wants to usurp his power, here Morgaine has a positive nature.
But through them, Morgaine and Gwenhwyfar, we can have a glance of the two opposing faiths and of their struggle to assert themselves in a territory that, even with deeply rooted beliefs, ends up being absorbed by the coming of Christian faith.Religions aside, I liked going back to the Arthurian world and the story of Morgaine, Arthur, Lancelet, Gwenhyfar and of the introduction of new characters like Elaine, Gwydion and Accolon.
Part three is a direct prequel to The Mists of Avalon and is the story of Viviane's childhood and training on Avalon and the events that led to her becoming High Priestess of Avalon.
I rather enjoyed the first and third parts, but part two I found more tedious and didn't really feel it added much to the series as a whole except to provide some context for certain events that happened in the book Priestess of Avalon.
Forth finish parts two and three of Priestess of Avalon, and then finally read part three of Lady of Avalon.
It is the story of the very essence of the legend of Avalon, not one Priestess but three of them, and of more than one incarnation of the mighty King that will come to save Britain.
The previous book, The Forest House, was about Eilan, Priestess of Avalon, and her beloved warrior Gaius who tragically die together.
The spirit of the tragic pair in the previous book live on, and Lady of Avalon has a definite thread of reincarnation traveling toward the final destination of the actual legend of Arthur, the great King.
Depois de " As brumas de Avalon" , Marion decide escrever sobre as suas sacerdotisas e narrar os acontecimentos que antecedem a chegada de Artur.
A segunda, Dierne promove o compromisso entre um oficial romano e uma das suas noviças de modo a preservar o sol sagrado.
Adorei conhecer a história de Viviane, a dama do lago, pois é ela que prepara a chegada de Artur.
Trata da preservação de Avalon no território romano, uma vez que o trabalho das atuais Senhoras é tentar manter a ilha sagrada em segredo.
Estou satisfeita com este livro, gostei de o ler e consegui gostar de facto de uma personagem: Viviane.Marion Zimmer Bradley não é de todo uma escritora de eleição para mim, pelo menos ainda não se revelou até à data.
Contudo, há algo demasiado frio, soturno e distante na escrita da autora que continua a afastar-me um pouco e são várias as vezes que dou por mim a divagar.Este livro está dividido em três partes, sendo que cada uma delas aborda tempos diferentes e personagens diferentes.
Following where The Forest House left off, Caillean flees with the young Gawen and establishes a life on the isle of Avalon.
The highlight of the book was, of course, the part about Viviane because she was such a mysterious character in The Mists of Avalon (at times terrible, at times intriguing) but, again, I felt cheated out of knowing more about her as this was a very short section of the book.For a lover of Marion Zimmer Bradley and her twist on the Arthurian legends...
Dismally soap-operatic.
Is there ever an epic novel that doesn't have some kind of soap-operatic qualities (SOQ)?
Now I need to read other epic novels and tease out what made this one read like "General Hospital at the Round Table." In defense of the book, the characters were multi-dimensional; so difficult to decide who one supported.
Can a reader support all of the characters at once, even when they are at odds with eachother?*I think I made that word up.
This novel is about three women - Caillean, Dierna and Viviane.
Caillean is the first Lady of Avalon, who will raise Gawen, the Sacred King.
Dierna is the next Lady of Avalon who will serve during Roman and Breton political rising.
Viviane, who follows her mother, Ana, serves as the Lady of Avalon during Saxon invasions.
We follow their lives through their service as priestesses of Avalon; their joys, pains and rebirths.
This novel is filled with the cycles of life.
The reader follows characters through the valleys and mountains of their lives, which, in turn, touches people and history.
The characters are memorable.
Bridges the gap between 'The Forest House' and 'The Mists of Avalon'. Enjoyable light reading but nothing to blow your mind. Split into three short novellas exploring the development of Avalon and the attempts to free Britain from the Romans.I find owning Marion Zimmer Bradley books uncomfortable after the abuse allegations so will be donating this to Oxfam.
Há muito que este livro estava esquecido numa das prateleiras da minha mãe, tinha eu ainda 12 anos."Tem muitas personagens!" Queixava-se ela.
Felizmente para o "O rei veado", muitas personagens e histórias complexas eram já nessa altura duas das minhas coisas favoritas num livro.
Devorei-o mais do que o li, e procurei depois os restantes volumes para saciar a minha curiosidade crescente de um mundo tão maravilhoso como aquele que me foi descrito pela primeira leitura.
Agora, muitos anos mais tarde, já foram muitas as vezes que reli todos os 4 livros, e mais da mesma autora.
Uma leitura mágica e apaixonante para os fãs de uma boa narrativa e das lendas arturianas =)
