https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10629.Christine
I have a real guilty-pleasure, love/love realtionship with Stephen King books.
I'd heard somewhere that Stephen King books contained scandalous curse words, so I picked it out of the library's King collection because the title resembled my own name.
I would never have been allowed to check that book out, so I read the whole thing on the sly, curled up on a bean bag in the back of the library, shitting my pants, and unable to explain to my parents why I suddenly refused to go through the garage to take the bins out on trash day.
LeBay; the old timer refers to the junker as "Christine." Believing his friend is being suckered, Dennis is taken aback by how enamored Arnie--a gifted machinist who has never owned his own wheels--is of the red and white street rod, which Arnie begins calling Christine.
Soon after, the boys are hunted down by the Plymouth Fury, which its victims recognize too late has no driver, or the corpse of Roland LeBay at the wheel.Leigh, who loves Arnie and would enthusiastically consent to sex if she didn't have to lose her virginity in Christine, is spooked by how precious her boyfriend is of his car.
3.5 Stars.BIG fan of Stephen King, but not so much of CHRISTINE.
Reading a 700+ page book....especially one written by SK usually does not bother me in the least, but CHRISTINE was just too long....too wordy....was expecting more wicked deeds than the movie.The storyline IS creepy good with a possessed red 1958 Plymouth Fury....her deadlights and "moldering stench"....on the prowl seeking justice from anyone who dislikes her....so best stay out of her way.Besides a feared CHRISTINE, there's a great cast of teen characters, bullies, weird parents and an evil presence from the beyond to keep things rolling along.
AND, as in many KING novels, you'll find a variety of dark nightmares, hear many a cool oldie from the 50's and 60's and take a ride to the submarine races.
The countless hours since devoted to reading his work and the small fortune I’ve spent accumulating his books over the years are a testament to how deeply the hook was set.Looking back now, that seems kind of odd because Christine is not my favorite King novel.
When people who crossed Arnie start turning up dead via bizarre vehicular homicides, Dennis’s dread of Christine leads him to believe the impossible.It’d be easy to dismiss this as the book about the evil car, but like most good horror there’s a more human theme lurking in the story.
He gradually gets 'in love' with his car, and, as Christine is repaired, Arnie also changes, becoming darker and taking on some personality traits of Christine's former owner, Roland LeBay.The book's other main character is Dennis, Arnie's friend, who witness all these changes.
Actually, there are two: the first one is the HELL LOVE TRIANGLE: (view spoiler)[Arnie-Christine-Leigh.
(hide spoiler)] The second is the normal love triangle: (view spoiler)[Arnie-Leigh-Denis.
(hide spoiler)] :))The ending is classic King and if you have read one or two of his books you know what I am talking about.
For the longest time, I assumed that Christine was the originating source of evilness, but as my favorite Mah Fah, Stepheny, pointed out and upon further reading of the actual book, it became sort of apparent that the car was in fact possessed by its original owner, who in turn possessed (I take a shot of something every time I type the word “possessed” or any form of the word, so bear with me) poor Arnie Cunningham in an effort to continue railing against “the shitters” of the world.It takes a long, long time before Christine, no matter who’s driving (or not) the damn car, to actually start running punks down and grinding them into hamburger and the narrative structure kind of sucks – Dennis, I was truly hoping you’d fall victim to Christine at some point, but it just wasn’t meant to be.
If I admitted that I probably enjoyed this more than The Shining – would that amount to sacrilege?  Good Review vs Evil Review Good ReviewThere isn’t much I didn’t particularly enjoy about the novel, except perhaps for one or two pacing issues. Then again, the book is only about 500 pages, which is a lot less than some of those other King books. It is incredibly creepy at times, which I found surprising, since the idea of a “haunted car” might seem a bit, well, corny. It’s everything but. In fac
It adds a nice touch of authenticity.The sympathetic first person narrative of Parts 1 & 3 was striking and I really felt for [name withhold due to spoiler] when things started going awry.My horror had changed to a deep and terrible sorrow…I suppose that is really what this novel is about, and Christine is just a vehicle for a bigger story about obsession and possession.
❤wait a sec, what in the actual-y ass!
Funny.So too, can Stephen King tell us about a haunted car and have what would seem to be an absurd notion come alive with terror and dark menace.
It’s about a scary, haunted car, yes, but also its about teenage angst, and relationships, and group dynamics.
Its about good and evil and right and wrong.
Carpenter, this has all the right Stephen King elements to make this one of his more entertaining novels.
My re-telling of the story "Christine" to my sixty-five year old immigrant mother, enjoy:Me: "Mom?....are you listening?
Can I finish telling you about the story, it's been almost thirty minutes."Mom: "ya, ya go ahead..."Me: " So Arnie and Dennis are strolling by Lebay's place when he sees a 1958 Plymouth Fury sitting outside all junked out.
At first Lebay..."Mom: "So the car has the devil inside?"Me: "Yes"Mom: "Why's it there, who told the car to have the devil?
Someone bad?"At this point I gave up and walked out of the roomThis has been, My re-telling of the story "Christine" to my sixty-five year old immigrant mother.
Razmišljala sam da li da posle svega dam 5 stars, jer kraj nije bio...zadovoljavajući. Msm da je problem u tome što sam se vremenom pretvorila u "razmaženog" čitaoca, pa sam htela da kraj bude baš onakav kakav ja mislim da bi trebalo -srećan. Ipak, kad malo bolje razmislim, ovakav zaplet i mučno mračna priča o posednutosti, nikako nije mogla da se završi potpuno srećnim krajem.Da stvar bude još teža, King je na kraju kroz prolog, ostavio i neku vrstu "klifhengera", pa čitalac nekako ostane nezadovoljan, ali i potpuno raznet samom knjigom.Tople preporuke svima koji vole dooooobar horor.
Misfit Arnie Cunningham buys a 1958 Plymouth Fury named Christine and it's love at first sight. As he fixes the car and his obsession with it grows, his life spins out of control. 11/5/2013 I'm putting Christine in park for now since it's not revving my engine. It's as slow as a Plymouth Fury with the emergency brake on. Hopefully I'll pick it back up in a few weeks and it'll get my motor running.
But this is Stephen King.Arnie, an acne-ridden teenage outsider, one day sees a car and it is love at first sight.
Are those changes more connected to the car than anyone could ever believe?Well, this is Stephen King so we already know the answer.
;)School bullies and crooks, oppressive and downright terrorizing parents, hormones driving one crazy - and a single-minded car with her its' undying love.
Not just the school bullies and drug-smugglers getting run over (and yes, I enjoyed the bloody deaths, of course), but the overall story - the characters (I love to hate most King characters), the creepy atmosphere ...
If re-reading it now, by today's lens, one thing has become utterly clear.Christine is a YA novel.
We have High School outcasts, a huge page count of sporting events, first love, and standing up to be your own person against what your parents think right.Yes. Rebellion, jealousy, and an ancient evil possession made up of pure wrath.
King even manages to turn all those sports and car maintenance bits into something fantastic even though I generally couldn't give a cat's fart over them in general.
:)Oh, and all the music references blew me away back during my first read, so I took the time to check them all out when I was 14.
I haven't been very active on here for ages, and that changes now.So, about Christine.The book started out beautifully.
I loved the way Christine the car started haunting Arnie and also started changing him, subtly at first, hitting like a hammer next.
What else is there??" Some time during that, the "spell" of the book wore off, and somehow it became tedious.But my biggest beef with the book is something else entirely: the fact that Christine (view spoiler)[wasn't actually a sentient car, but was just simply haunted by the ghost of her previous owner.
(hide spoiler)]Maybe the above criticism was just personal preference.
Thought I would hate this because the antagonist is a car. I thought it would be one of the weaker King novels but it was wonderful and I really liked it. You get so lost in the well written characters and setting.
I'm glad that Dennis is alive! This book was full of surprises, but I liked Christine. A serial killer in shape of a car. Genius!
One of the better Stephen King books I've read in a while.
Like Salem's Lot, the first half of the book is devoted to character development and drawing you into the setting.
There are some dark elements mixed in early on to keep you interested, and then the second half of the book really takes off and things go crazy.
I feel like that isn't the case most of the time with Stephen King, but this one ended nicely, and I especially loved the epilogue.
Right now, I'm back in full King mode, but also mixing in some other stuff.
A personal favorite of mine, partly because I'm a classic car buff. However, I still feel like CHRISTINE is one of King's strongest books. Great characters and plot here, as well as very frightening imagery. I love this book.
With every King release, I purchase the audio book for road trips, the ebook for reading, and the hardcover for my collection.
But I also know that King has had his shit books.
(view spoiler)[The beginning of this book gets five stars.
It's as if King got tired of describing the killings so he...Hopped back into Dennis's head for the denouement (aka Part Three).
I remembered the shit truck instead of the CAT, like what's in the movie, but I completely forgot about Arnie and Regina's deaths.
This is a book about an evil car.
Stephen King explorers the relationship between a man and his vehicle.
The problem is "Christine" is so much more than a car.
This is a car with attitude and supernatural powers.
It is a car to love until the car kills everyone you know and appears virtually indestructible.After reading Herby, Christine was quite a shock.
Poor old Herby would be quivering in his boots, and as for Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, that old has been is a non starter.This is a book for those who believe their car is much more than a car.
To me, this takes away a lot of suspense from some of the most tense scenes in the book because the reader is being told the tale by a character who is involved in a near-death experience, therefore revealing that the narrator survived his experience.
By having one of the main characters narrate the tale, King has taken away the uncertainty about whether or not Dennis will survive.Other than that qualm, the only other nit that I have to pick with Christine is that at times the narrative gets a bit long winded.
I think this is probably my least favourite King book I’ve read so far.
It’s my first time reading it and I found it so slow going.
I felt zero connection to any of the characters, they felt flat and two dimensional to me.
And that makes it hard for me to enjoy a book because me connecting to characters is very important to my enjoyment of a story.
I really loved the idea of Christine though, and that’s why this story is still getting three stars and not a lower rating.
This for me is my favourite early King & one of few stand out stories about 1950s car like Cujo or Pet Cemetery this special. A vintage book about a vintage car this has rock n roll theme with a subject that is impossible yet it's fantastic John Carpenter did great movie of the book & unlike lot of movies did not spoil the book maybe that has helped me with memory of this book but at 24ys old this was book I loved
But old judgements die hard, I think, and for as long as I can remember I thought that this book wouldn't be my kind of thing, so I'd never really rushed out to read it.
I loved the two main characters, Arnie and Dennis, and how we get a full sense of their friendship before things start to go wrong.
The way that they were open and honest with each other, and intuitive enough in their friendship to know what the other needed at any given time, and close enough to go to bat for each other when needed just proves that there are such things as soul-friends, just as I think that there are soul-mates.
The Mist had me warmed up to King and I figured I'd snag an other good ol' book of his from my library.
Sure, it wasn't exactly the happiest and there were still a few things left open ended but it was sufficient.
My only question now is:Does Stephen King have random sex scenes that for the most part don't lead anywhere in every book?
One thing I will say for King is that he's done a great job making people seem real.
There have been very few characters that I can't say "hey, this guy reminds me of this other random person I know...." about.
The main focus is triangles - Arnie, Dennis, and Leigh --- and Arnie, Lebay, and Christine.Now, the below is rambling on why I think the book is changed from the movie, in that it was Lebay who made Christine alive and was the real power rather than it being an evil powerful car by itself.
King changed it as readers learned more and read further.The other thing I think of is if Christine was alive and changed the peoples lives and absorbed them, so to speak, then why would she merge LeBray and Arnie?
What a f*cking treat!
I was on-board the King express from THE SHINING and forward, reading every release.
Even buying the hardbacks, which was an unbelievable treat in my boyhood home.What a special pleasure to have hidden away from myself.
An early King masterpiece.
I have to re-read his early works that I loved so.
CHRISTINE I am surprised to say is one of his best novels.
A 700 page novel that races by.
No bloat here, as you'll see in some other King works.
It is a perfect American horror novel.
Second time was just as good as the first time. I had forgotten some stuff in the book as I hadn't read it for years, so it was really cool to re-read it.
Indeed, it’s the only major novel of his imperial phase that I hadn’t read.Why was that?Undoubtedly it’s because I don’t have that big an interest in cars.
So, reading a book centred on a car, even by an author whom I love, just seemed like hard work to me.And maybe a lot of that is why I didn’t really enjoy it.
Big, red and furious she might be, but each time I envisaged it, the car was a Tex Avery animation.Frankly, your book is in trouble when your constant reader can’t picture its main threat as anything other than a cartoon.But it’s more than that.
CHRISTINE is overlong, which isn’t really a surprise for King, but it’s also frequently quite boring.
