https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47164.The_Norton_Anthology_of_English_Literature_Volume_1
This was a perfectly serviceable book, with many, many good texts in it, including all of Paradise Lost, the Canterbury Tales, and other fascinating works.
My only gripe is this: they didn't get the best translations.
I'm not talking about Shakespeare, I'm talking about "By housbondrie, of swich as God hir sente, / She foond hirself and eek hire doghtren two." This is really hard to get through, and I ended up looking up a more modern translation of some pieces on the internet (which were very enjoyable, by the way).
This anthology is literally my life at the moment, being an English literature student. Don't go anywhere without it.
Have found good stuff in here that I wasn't required to read before.
This is not good...maybe I'll have to read on my prep hour???
Damn that middle-English.At page 290...having to teach 9th grade English and attempting to read this is kicking my butt.
The only thing that will save me is previous reading of both King Lear and 12th Night.
Had to read parts for another class, but the whole thing.
Got called into jury...couldn't read a single page, had to listen to attorneys in suits talking.
I seriously have been reading this every spare moment I could.
suicidebut then again, that's to be expected from brit lit.
The text for my first semester of senior English.
Mr. Edwards, I know it's been more than twenty years, but you were a brilliant teacher.
Wherever you are now, whatever you are doing, I truly hope that life has repaid you generously for the fine work you did with us.
I breezed through college English courses in large part because you taught me everything I needed to know.
All the rest was just picking good reading lists.
Thank you, again.
You are part of my brilliant English teacher triumvirate, along with Mr. Rosenberg (6th) and Mr. Schuszler (7th).
All in all, there is a reason this story is timeless, it’s absolutely fabulous.The Faerie Queene, by Edmund Spencer 4/5I was only required to read Canto 1 of Book 1 for class, and I’m afraid I stopped there, although I wish I hadn’t.
When women are the embodiments of reason in an old text and men the passionate fools, you know some man in power at the time, along with the critics, really aren’t going to like it.“When I Consider How My Light is Spent”, by John Milton 4/5Milton is positively one of my favourite writers of all time, and I haven’t come across something he’s written and not loved it.
If you are required to buy this book for a course, my review won't matter to you much one way or another, so this is slated towards the latter group.This is an excellent resource for English literature selections and excerpts.
A good deal of the selections are poetry or lyrical selections; most of the prose selections are small excerpts meant only to give you the "feel" of the author's writing style.
Invest in a copy if you have any interest in early English literature (particularly poetry) and you won't be sorry.
Take this last stanza from "Love's Offense,""Love is the fart / Of every heart./ It pains a man when 'tis kept close / And others offends when let lose." I'll let the reader try to find it in NA; it may be there now, but surely wasn't during the 30+ years I taught English Lit.
All these choices are of course determined by other anthologies as well, notably freshman comp and lit which came to include Othello (hence redundant in sophomore lit).
This is one of the greatest anthologies of English literature ever produced.
Under review here is the section on the early seventeenth-century, 1603-1660, Donne to Milton, edited by Katharine Eiseman Maus.Maus writes a superb introduction that, printed in a paperback trim size with a normal font size and normal spaces between the lines, would have made a very informative short book.
The readings are excellent; all are worthwhile and generally representative of the era.
The selections from essays on philosophy, ethics, and learning are revealing of the mind of the era.Nobody needs a Norton Anthology who has everything written by the authors represented.
If you do not, then you need the Norton Anthology.
I was dreading studying for the GRE Lit exam, especially having to read Paradise Lost and other poetry.
But I finally get it.
The Rape of the Lock is phenomenally funny, Paradise Lost (at least the parts concentrating on Satan) is an interesting read, and I've finally gotten over my hatred of poetry.
I loved the witty comeback of The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd and the beauty of some of Donne's poems.
He took the concept of religious devotion and made it almost sexual and he wrote quite racy (for his time) love poems like the Flea.
Each period has a clear introduction with plenty of information to get you in the mindset of that time.
As well, there was an introduction to each author, which I found incredibly helpful for not only understanding their style of writing but also to gain information on other works they've done that weren't included.
I think the collection in this book clearly portrayed the different periods and I wouldn't have changed anything.The one thing I did find difficult was the accompanying website.
I'd prefer the entire collection including intros to be available online so I don't always have to carry a heavy book back and forth.
This was an assigned text for my British Literature class. A lot of difficult reading, but very fascinating. Some of my favorite readings were Beaowulf, Paradise Lost, and Gulliver't Travels. It was interesting to see the evolution of literature from the Middle Ages through the eighteenth century.
That's right. I, Jason Kinn, give the best examples of English literature between Beowulf and 1750, as picked by the foremost scholars in the U.S. and Britain, three fucking stars. That's democracy for you.
I read this book in my English Literature class. I fell in love with English Literature.
There are always going to be canons created, no doubt about it, but - again - by providing as relevant a range of texts as possible, and reinforced by talented teachers, anthologies can encourage readers to dive further into the pool rather than luring them to the shallow parts with treats.*If you find the argument that canons need to be questioned objectionable - and, as I say, as a literary graduate I understand this - I recommend googling people who are really passionate about maintaining the canon.
This is an academic text and very much reads like a history book (a big complaint from the other kids in my class).
I read this for my Early British Literature class.
There is a second volume which covers British literature from the 19th century until the current era (I'm pretty sure, but I haven't read that).
Come my birthday week I've decided to treat myself and get the book; which to my good luck, it remained in the same spot I've left it!
Going home pleased with my purchase, I've started reading it while enjoying the rich content it contained.
I've always had an appreciation for literature and living where I am you could not find many books that highlight key writings of the genre; so you could understand my cheerfulness when I've finally found a book like this anthology.
Not only does this book contain a collection of classical texts, but also it has a perfect bibliography for those who might be interested in further reading. The book is a good thing to have on your shelf, especially if your life is marked by the omen of scholarship...
This popped up in my recommendations - a college textbook I think I still have somewhere!
A good collection piece to read occasionally without Order. Pretty hefty!
It was a great textbook for my Early British Literature class.
used off and on through out my five-years of schooling at Seattle University, as English Literature major
For an appended and brief look at some depth of this anthology Geoffrey Chaucer’s play Canterbury Tales occurs at the section “Middle English Literature in the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Century.” Chaucer’s text contains many deprecated words and varied spellings of current words used in English.
Edmund Spencer’s work “The Faerie Queene” appears in the section “The Sixteenth Century.” Like Chaucer’s work, Spencer’s also uses deprecated words and varied spellings.
More contemporary work, like Jonathan Swift’s story “Gulliver’s Travels” and Alexander Pope’s poetic “An Essay on Criticism” do not appear until the section “The Restoration and the Eighteenth Century.”The Norton Anthology is an academic text.
I have always appreciated the Norton introductions to the pieces they include in their anthologies, and I find them useful whether I'm a student or not.

Yet another Norton anthology. Good reading selections, overall. The annotations are helpful, and the introductory essays are informative yet brief. I do recommend reading those essays, since they tend to pinpoint the most important parts of the reading selection as well as provide history on the piece or the author. Of course, there is that tissue-thin bible paper that makes highlighting impossible (here's a tip: use neon colored crayons). And, thick and heavy as it is, its not the most comfortable of books.
I like this series of textbooks. Each section has a clear, concise introduction to different aspects of that theme. It provides brief, informative biographies on each author. It includes a wide variety of authors and poets to choose from. There is no way you could cover everything in this book in one semester. It has wonderful footnotes to help clarify archaic words and phrases as well. All this is presented without any kind of opinion or critique, leaving the passages open for debate or personal interpretation. I really enjoyed it.
I am not claiming to have read this specific edition, but I took a course in Middle English verses. We read from works such as this, to include excerpts of Chaucer, and varieties of Middle English literature. Norton anthologies have a heft and an editorial authority, that challenges me, because I can never finish reading them, cover to cover. Someday, I will circle back to this one. It is getting late, and all we have is time.
This anthology was selected for an undergraduate 17th century literature course. Unfortunately, the anthology lacks a number of crucial female writers, especially Behn, Leapor, and Lennox, of the 18th century. The prefaces and backgrounds provided for each era in literary history are helpful to those in order to understand the context in which writers may write (In-depth information on Restoration, for example).
I had to use this book for British Literature. It was useful in the variety of works, although we only covered a handful compared to what is available. The size of this book was the biggest downfall in my opinion. I may be more affected by this downfall since I also had another near 3000 page Norton Anthology for American Lit to carry around at the same time. It was better than having to get multiple texts, though. The translations could have also been better.
