https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567704.Imajica
Buddy Read with my  brotha from anotha motha.
The only good part about this book was reading it with a friend.
I honestly can't write a review because I have no fucking clue what happened, to whom it happened to, nor what dimension I was in when it occurred.
I'm thinking that in about 10 years when my brain has recovered I would like to pick up a physical copy of the book and give it a better try.
I have not sworn Barker off for this, as I am sure a second reading would help, but I think I am going to be a while before I pick up another book of his.
But this is a Clive Barker book, so that goes without saying.The Imajica is the whole of creation, the true world, four-fifths of which we've never seen.
But throughout history there have been Maestros, men of great and terrible power, who have tried to unite the Fifth with the other Dominions, finally making the Imajica whole.
With his acolytes and his apostles he tried to Reconcile the dominions, and his efforts ended in disaster.Two hundred years later, the time has come again to try the great work of bringing the Imajica together.
Some paperback editions split the book into two volumes, which was probably a good idea.
“It was the pivotal teaching of Pluthero Quexos, the most celebrated dramatist of the Second Dominion, that in any fiction, no matter how ambitious its scope or profound its theme, there was only ever room for three players. Between warring kings, a peacemaker; between adoring spouses, a seducer or a child. Between twins, the spirit of the womb. Between lovers, Death. Greater numbers might drift through the drama, of course -- thousands in fact -- but they could only ever be phantoms, agents,
Barker's prose is dense, verbose and concerned with many details, some of which are minute, but there are many more which inform the reader of character development and plot, subplot, themes, et al.
I think that there's excessive buildup throughout its eight hundred and twenty-seven pages, which naturally heightened my expectations to an unhealthy level.
(hide spoiler)] I still cannot begin to fathom the fact that Imajica originated from a series of vivid dreams that Barker had.
Even more mind blowing is the fact that he completed it in just fourteen months, which begs two questions: how did he keep all of the images and details intact?
I ended up getting Imajica from my public library, thinking it was a fifty-fifty chance that I could like it.
Then, I didn't have anything else to read, and ended up picking it back up.
I fell in love with the characters, felt the pain when some of them died, and burned with anticipation as the secrets were revealed and the Reconciliation was getting closer to happening.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who's looking for inspiration as far as writing broad fantasies like this, or who are looking for a good read.
This was a buddy-read with Dustin.Impressive in its scope and imagining, Clive Barker has created a marathon epic, with sprawling worlds, dozens of wonderfully strange and outlandish characters straight out of our nightmares, incredibly complex confrontations, deep philosophy, high adventure, and staggering tension, all thrown at the reader from the excellent beginning to the satisfying end.This is not a light read by any means, but the prose is fully developed.
There are so many characters, on five separate worlds, with sub-plots intertwined between them all.
There is no need, for example, to include a scene where the main character watches television naked and picks the crumbs of his late-night snack out of his nether regions.
No need.
But "Imajica" is one long extraneous detail, an 800+ page behemoth that could have easily been accomplished in 200 pages with the amount of actual material here.
The motivations for the characters make no sense and are in fact often counter-intuitive.
During the parts where things actually happen, you might even have a hard time putting it down.
But those parts, sadly, are few and far between.
If you've read his Books of Blood, the Damnation Game, the Great and Secret Show, and Weaveworld but haven't gotten around to Imajica yet, turn off your computer right now and get out there and get it.
This is Clive Barker's masterpiece.
Earth is part of a dominion of five other worlds, and the only one unaware of the others.
This novel is about the reuniting of Earth to the other four worlds.
Again, this is horrific, beautiful, mind-expanding.An incredible feat of the imagination...this is one of the few novels I will read over again.
Am I gushing over this?
What, you never got assigned 800-pg novels?
This is a big, epic book, with big crazy sex, and divinities familiar and alien.
I find the central love story a little unconvincing, but the crazy details are richly ornamental.
It's like a Fabrege egg of a story, or like one of thone huge crazy sugar Easter egg dioramas where you look through this tiny hole and keep seeing more and more, and one of the things you see is a tiny sugar egg.....
If you never made it through long tedious fantasy novels which we could mention, don't bother.
Well-written more often than over-written, Clive Barker's Imajica is a picaresque (the blurb from William S. Burroughs adorning the cover of my edition agrees) dark fantasy that seeks to dispel gender binary and then imagine the fluid, and frankly erotic, possibilities for human coexistence. If you are looking for a long read with gender-bending assassins, imprisoned goddesses, magic made out of breath and spit, brutal inter-dimensional ghouls, impossible but consensual sexual contortions, oddly named characters, the profane made sacred, high body counts, sentient lakes and cities, furries and cockney accents, then look no further!
I truly love Clive Barker's work, but this is BY FAR his worst, most indulgent novel.
The characters act in seemingly random fashion, the pacing is long stretches of nothing followed by some infodump and then an act of violence.
It's just an incoherent mess with neither plot, character or language to keep it interesting.
Barker relies too heavily on his world-building to sell the novel, but quite frankly, Imajica is much less interesting than he thinks it is.
It's a hodgepodge of vague ideas and images that no one but the person who dreamt it would find interesting.
Avoid at all costs and pick up any other Barker book.
Though one of my all time favorite books, when I set out a little over a month ago to re-read Clive Barker‘s Imajica, for the eight or ninth time in the fifteen years I’ve owned my now slightly battered hardcover edition, I didn’t know if I’d include a write up about it in my blog.
I’d strongly suggest it as a good read for anyone with a love for horror or fantasy.
More then that I’d put it on my personal must read list.
5 OUTSTANDING stars!!This is my favorite book by Mr. Barker!!
And is in my top 10 favorites of all time!
I have never read a book THIS original and magical, yet filled with a sort of oddball fantasy.
I've never read a book like this ever, period!
It's a gorgeous masterpiece from page one!I say "oddball fantasy", because I had such a hard time telling people what this book was about...and I won't attempt to do so now.
It's a chunky book...but my GOD, I sure loved that chunk!!!
A+ and 5-stars of 100% perfection!
Really more like 2.5. The only reason I finished this is because Simon Vance is a narrator genius. Seriously this guy can do voices like nobody else. There were a million characters and I was never once confused as to who was speaking. The overall story was interesting but it was too long and the main characters were flat. Some of the secondary characters were interesting and what made the book readable to me. Happy to be finished with this one.
This book is Barker's attempt to write the Great American Fantasy Novel, and he pulls out all the stops.
I can't really buy into their romances in a meaningful way like I'm supposed to (I also could do without all the odd, frequent sex scenes, but then it would cease to be a Clive Barker novel), and they spend the majority of the book in a confused state without any clue as to their purpose or history.
As with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, I simply don't care for stories where people just aimlessly wander around a lot.
Imajica, whispers a spirit in one of the Four Dominions that isn't Earth.
More characters were introduced and as I say once they entered these other Dominions that weren't Earth, and none of the Dominions were described, and Barker kept rambling about the Dominions' lore by bashing on his keyboard to come up with the name of some lord or potion or city or other, I was like...
no.See if you read a book that's 1100 pages long, shouldn't it give you as much as 4 x 250 pg books or 3 x 400 pg books or 4 x 300 pg books?
The best proof that Dark Fantasy novels do not have to involve semi-erotic vampires posing as P.I's or bounty hunters.
Clive Barker's epic masterpiece might be a massive tome, but you need every page to tell the story.
Yeah, some people might be turned off by a sub-plot that involves a complex "gay" relationship, but seriously...
don't allow that to put you off from this novel.
There is so much here, such a rich universe painted by Barker with incredibly developed characters engaged in the most remarkable mythos, you won't be disappointed.
When the two try to break into Roxborough Tower to free the prisoner from Judith's vision, Dowd arrives and kills Clara.Meanwhile, Gentle and Pie travel through the third dominion searching for an old friend of Pie's named Scopique.
Quaisoir, amazingly still alive arrives and using her power saves Judith and lets Dowd fall in the well after he reveals that hundreds of years before he found a woman for Hapexamendios, Celestine, who bore him a child.Gentle makes it to the top of the palace where he encounters the Autarch, who reveals that Gentle is the Maestro Sartori, who led the failed effort to reconcile the dominions 200 years before.
I feel like this book kind of ruined my life, in that I know that nothing I ever read from here on out will ever be as good.
Wow. Thank you so much for ruining my life forever, Clive Barker, you're actually the best.I've been recommending it to everybody I encounter, from friends to strangers in my literature classes, but I can't explain to people what it's really about without ruining it or making it sound weird as fuck.
800+ pages is pretty hefty, but the sheer scale and amount of things that actually happen in those 800 pages consumed my entire life, and made me feel as though I'd just finished reading a trilogy.
I remember talking to another person about weird books and they told me about a book where the main character had a bug head, a wasp I want to say, and I remember thinking 'That sounds really stupid.' and I think I feel the same way with most of Imajica.It's true, the book is very unique and very inventive.
However, the characters, being the thing I love most in a book, sucked.
Their actions seemed kind of lethargic and without feeling - unless sex was involved.
If sex was involved they got right on board!
It was told in a very smooth and steady style that I believe would work very well for someone who wants to relax and get lost in a book for a very long while.
This is not me.I wouldn't say that it's a bad book, quality-wise, it just really wasn't for me.
And, this one's a bit weird, Barker's female characters make me think 80s TV.
I have no idea why they make me think of that.He had a wonderful character in this book, Pie "oh" Pah, that I really would have loved to know more about.
But sometimes his secondary characters are far more interesting than the primaries.

An interesting premise with some undeniably great worldbuilding, yet marred by a grueling pace and the need for some heavy-handed editing. There was a span of 200 pages near the middle that I absolutely loved, but the rest of the book I found a slog.
Reality: 4.8This is a book with such a large scope, that it's a surprise that Clive Barker was able to go follow it through to the very end.
If there was a flaw in this book, it would be the fact that Clive Barker has such a picturesque vision of the Imajica that he tries to put down every bit of detail that he can.
It truly shows in the beginning, where the story takes place in the boring (compared to the Imajica) reality of London, as well as the beginning sights of Imajica.
It is still worth the time to pick up and read, no matter how slow it may feel at first.
This book, more than any other, causes me to sit back and really think upon it, throughout the duration of the reading (and it usually takes me about three weeks to finish), and at the end, when I've had a chance to digest the weight of the material in this, Clive Barker's best novel, and in my opinion, crowning achievement.
There are moments of extreme horror and violence which contrast with pages of wonder and genuine, non-terrifying excitement.
The villains, including one of Barker's best, a creature called Dowd, are top of the line, and there are moments of real dread in this book.
I don't know why, but Clive Barker loves to drag.
I'd retain random tidbits and even when I did finally read it all the way through I'm sure I missed lots of details because it's just so long and wordy.It's a wonderful story and concept and I'm always in awe of what Clive Barker's imagination has to offer.
That guy is weird, but I love him, I'd love to meet him.
Clive Barker is an AMAZING writer but this story would've been better suited for a trilogy or something.One day I'm going to re-read this book!
3.5 starsThis sweeping novel takes the reader on a fantastical ride through dimensions and the lives
Wow, I've forgotten how good Clive Barker can be. Weaveworld, Cabal, Great and Secret Show, all the Books of Blood, I read and loved these in my teens. Then came Coldheart Canyon which was kinda pointless and not good and then a few years ago I read Mister B Gone and he lost me. Didn't like that one at all. Imajica is now probably my second favorite behind Great and Secret Show, its slow and steady and builds to an incredible ending that very satisfyingly ties it all up. Glad I finally read this, I highly recommend.
I don't even know what to say about this book.I read it first when I was 11 years old and I won't say that I understood everything... Also, my dad was pretty shocked when he remembered the sex scenes - AFTER I read the whole thing, so...I have to be in a specific mood (and have enough time) to read this book but it happens about once every two years. I really, really love it; it made me love Fantasy stories even more than I did before so I'll always be grateful for that :)
I was definitely not into the sexual slavery ((view spoiler)[Judith is tied to the Goldophin family (hide spoiler)]) and rape ((view spoiler)[Gentle gets drunk when he creates Judith and has sex with her body.
Also, Taylor gives Gentle a blowjob when Gentle is high and this is not considered impaired consent (hide spoiler)]).
This kicks off a series of events where we learn that (view spoiler)[Estabrook is the oldest son of the Goldophin family, where Judith is bound to.
Gentle eventually gets married to Pie, whose gender is determined by the person who views it.
Also, Gentle and Judith don't remember their past (hide spoiler)].
