https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330122.Tarzan_and_the_City_of_Gold
(And while he asserts elsewhere in the book that he only kills for self-defense or for food, neither of these are his motives for dispatching the bandits' sentry, for instance --though, since they avowedly intended to kill the prisoner in the morning, most readers would deem that justifiable.) He does, though, continue to come across as having a very real integrity and a brave willingness to stick up for the abused and endangered.The author departs somewhat here from the formula of his Pellucidar and Martian series in one respect; there, when a beautiful woman appears in the story, she's an admirable lady who plays a relatively passive plot role as the hero's love interest.
While still a classic pot boiler from the pen of Edgar Rice Burroughs, there is a good deal of tongue in cheek humor here, from the cell mate that tells Tarzan that he is a weakling, to a mad queen in love with the Ape Man. What a movie this one would have made.
An extremely brisk and entertaining read.The machinations of the city of Cathne were interesting to consider: a conflicted yet insane queen manipulated behind the scenes by a motley crew. Their motivations weren't clearly spelled out, especially the mysterious slave M'duze, whose hold over the queen is never explained.The tail end feels hurried...I almost wonder if Burroughs had some greater ambition or plan but ran out of time or ambition or something. The city of Athnea, the Ivory City, is only referenced.
Not one lost city, but two. Oh my! Love it.

This being the 16th Tarzan book I've read, they tend to blend together and repeat; same story, same conclusion. This one is really no different, except, for whatever reason, this one was better than probably the last ten. The ending was a bit weak, but I really enjoyed this one.
Anyway, they get to the valley and get separated by a flooded river when Tarzan is swept away to the rival city of gold.There he is taken prisoner and forced to fight in gladiatorial combat before he comes to the attention of the mad Queen Nemone who, of course, falls in love with the ape man.
Whatever the reason, there is very little of Jane in the later books and I think they suffer for it.
Tarzan is at his best when he is torn between his role as an English Lord and his love of the jungle.That being said, I hated seeing him being gooey eyed over this crazy bitch and thought it was the weakest part of the book.
Not in the sense of "Tarzan want berries," as modern media would have us believe - in fact, Tarzan is as eloquent as any other character when he speaks, though that's not terribly often - but in the sense of switching randomly between first and third person in the middle of a speech: "Nemone, your Queen, is alive and unharmed, and I'll hear no more of this nonsense!"Savvy connoisseurs of the melodrama might see the plot twists coming a mile away, as I did, but it doesn't damage the story, nor can I fault the author for not concealing his hand better - after all, this was 1932.
Tarzan is wandering aimlessly through Africa, he comes upon a pair of warring cities belonging to a lost civilization, yes we've heard it all before.
The queen of one of which falls madly in love with the ape-man, yes we've heard it all before.
However Tarzan's constant musings on the inferiority of mankind when compared to all other animals gets a bit wearing, it makes me think that perhaps he'd been reading to much of Mark Twain's late dark writings such as What is Man!
Ever since Tarzan, Lord of the Jungle Tarzan has been playing a supporting role in his own series in a sequence of other people's one-off adventures.
Tarzan and the City of Gold is a return to form and the best Tarzan novel since Tarzan and the Golden Lion.
It's especially refreshing since the previous Tarzan novel, Tarzan Triumphant, was particularly bad.The land of Cathne is vintage Burroughs, a place where lions live among men and the city is covered in gold.
And where the people display the tanned hides of their slain enemies on the walls of their palaces.
I think I would have enjoyed this far more if I hadn't spent the whole book wondering what the hell had happened to Jane. Tarzan's obviously already discovered that he's a British lord, which means he must have met and married Jane (so it's not a prequel) but she's never mentioned and he spends all of his time galavanting in the wilds with some native queen. Did Jane die in some book that I missed? Now I have to go back and read the whole series again from the beginning.
Tarzan and the City of Gold (Tarzan #16) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1932) (Fiction). Tarzan rescues an Athene warrior from the shiftas. He is later captured by people from Othnar and is forced to fight in the arena, defeating first the Othnarian's strongest warrior and later the queen's pet lion. Tarzan manages to defeat the lion only because his faithful lion friend intervenes. My rating: 7/10, finished 1973.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Tarzan travels to Abbyssinia, rescues an unusually dressed white man from "Shiftas" (slavers, raiders), learns a new language, finds out there are two more cities no one has ever seen or heard of, helps his new friend get home and ends up in the hands of that mans enemies. A crazy Queen falls for him, he doesn't reciprocate, and so she tries to have him killed. Jad-Bal-Ja, the golden lion. saves his life.
I was a big ERB fan growing up. It had been many years since I had read my last Tarzan book. This was a nice re-introduction. Maybe not as good as the earlier Tarzan books but after about twenty-five years since I read book 15, it was an easy read and kept my interest. I found Tarzan's relationship with Queen Nemone very interesting. This is the fourth ERB book I have read in the past year and I'm glad to rediscover him.
Good novel within the Tarzan series. Jane is long forgotten as Tarzan explores another part of the jungle and becomes prisoner to a beautiful, though evil, queen. Doesn't break any new ground but is an enjoyable read if you accept Edgar Rice Burrough's conventions - good triumphs over evil, lots of coincidences, animals nobler than man.
An excellent Tarzan book I read in the 1960's. Queen Nemone of Cathne captures Tarzan. The beautiful but insane Queen Nemone forces him to fight in the arena. Tarzan fights the cities arena hero. Later, Tarzan also fights a lion. After many adventures in the book Tarzan triumps.
In the fabled land of Onthar lie the twin cities of Cathne and Athne - one a city of gold, the other a city of ivory. For generations the Cathneans and Athneans have warred with one another, using armies of trained lions and elephants.
Tarzan is back with a few more clothes here. He is learning more about the human race and their cities. As mankind races to amass riches, Tarzan is caught between the greed and avarice of the humans and the conflicts within the ape tribes. The third book in the series.
Tarzan finds yet another lost civilization, Africa seems to be teeming with them. But even with Burroughs repeating himself, the stories are so entertaining and the Tarzan character so intriguing, you really don't care. Once again, great fun with the mighty Ape-man!
Tarzan wanders into a city where he is suspected of being an assassin to the queen. Jad-bal-ja saves the day.
Is this the one with the lions trained to pull the queen's carriage? Way better than the Windsor Greys-
Tarzan Book 16
possibly read in winter 1966
Good story. Remember reading it in fourth grade.
Yay Tazan on another adventure read this years ago as a teen. Yaa yaa the cover got me lol it was a fun read and its still on 1 of my shelfs.
While the plot was entertaining, it was also very easy to figure out exactly what was going to happen next. I didn't find it nearly as good as some of the other Tarzan novels.
Not much jungle in this one, but there are plenty of lions.
This is one of the great Tarzan books.With Burroughs there are lots of boilerplate books, especially in series.
GREAT reading!
