https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3828.Death_of_an_Expert_Witness
It's unfortunate Commander Adam Dalgliesh doesn't have amusing personality quirks or foibles which would endear him to readers the way many of the most beloved fictional sleuths do.
It's most disappointing feature was it brought no development in the character of the mysterious Adam Dalgliesh.
I'm beginning to think he's Ms. James' greatest mystery!However, that said, her books are psychological challenges.
Reading up to section seven of Book 2 in Death of an Expert Witness, I recorded twenty primary characters--most of whom were suspects--not counting their immediate family members, who also played roles.As usual, I didn't figure out whodunit.
Open letter to P.D. James:You are smart.Stop trying to prove it.THX!Also:I really feel like there's a good mystery somewhere in that brain of hers.
But she diluted the effect with too many obvious red herrings, too many equally potent motives, too many unnecessary details and, perhaps most importantly, not enough trust in the reader (for example, when the truth comes out, it's not necessary for the killer's confession to allude specifically to every shred of evidence uncovered in chapter 2).
The effect is a strong impression of contrivance.Also:It's like she's overthinking it.
GEE WHO IS THE KILLER.- Make your star detective a poet.
She writes a murder mystery like it's a novel.
This sounds facile, but it's unusual, often a hallmark of greatness like James's or Josephine Tey's.
In this book, for example, the discovery of the body is written, not in order to give us all the details, clues and red herrings, of the body's condition, but as a truly traumatic event in the life of an established character, a rather sheltered young woman.
This was just an okay Dalgliesh novel, which means I was never too scared on behalf of a character to stop listening, never caught myself musing on how totally awesome Dalgliesh is and missing parts of the story, et cetera.
Not only did I not know the real murderer until the end, but I turned each page in constant fear that it would turn up being this suspect or another.
I found portions of the investigation to uncover absolutely visceral-wrenching aspects of human cruelty (more emotional than physical, if you happen to be squeamish and still like well-written mysteries).Of course, one of the more unique aspects of this mystery is that we don’t really get any new insights about the protagonist, Adam Dalgleish.
Although portions of the investigation are seen through his point-of-view, the brilliant sections of the book are positively told through the perspectives of the interesting suspects.
During the investigation of a local murder, we are introduced to the people who work at Hoggart's Laboratory, a forensic laboratory written and set in the 1970s.
Adam Dalgleish enters the picture in the second part of the book; there is nothing endearing about him, either, although his associate, Massingham (with a name awfully close to one the Hoggart's employees) comes close to being endearing.During the rest of the novel we continue to read the stories of the various suspects as well as the investigation.
This was not my favorite of James' books.
Certainly happenstance, family ties and being in the right place at the right (or wrong) time is the keystone to most great mystery stories, but James' overachievement in this area made less of her talent.
James set up a story with 30+ characters, and then defaulted to creating complicated sexual histories in order to establish connections, all the while requiring that the reader believe that all the characters live in the same area, are associated with the same laboratory, and happened to be engaged in their scandalous deeds right around the time of the murder.It was a little much.
3.5 stars.
The plot is a good one and the setting near Ely and the fens interesting.
In parts the author is overly descriptive and Dalgliesch is his dour self.
The forensic lab where the murder takes place was interesting and the now mostly historic methods of identifying suspects.
DNA not even thought about.
The characters are unlikeable such as Domenica the sister of the director who is beautiful and sexy but also without depth.
Massingham the assistant to Dalgliesch is an interesting character who upsets his boss towards the end.
Overall a good readable story.
I find it very sad when mystery novels start off like this.
(hide spoiler)] Then there was the titular death, and that was explained in about four very dense pages of more info-dump near the end.
Give me hard-drinking lovable-but-flawed old men about to get forced into early retirement for being sarky with their superiors any day, at least they have a bit of character to them.So, if the murders were a bit of a let-down, and I've still no idea who the detective was, what was the point of this book?Well, I feel like I've been a bit harsh, there.
Listened to in audio format.I remembered the Adam Daglish TV adaptations when I was young.
I remembered at the time I did not like the Adam Daglish character.
This book is a bit of a cozy mystery set in The Fen. Unfortunately Commander Adam Daglish lacks personality, he is neither charismatic or a bad boy like DI Regan who another Tv detective from The Sweeney.The storyline showed promise, forensic scientist Dr Edwin Lorrimer was found murdered in his laboratory at Hoggarts.
However there were too many characters in the story for me to remember.
A girl's body has turned up in a clunch pit (clunch: a hard chalk used as building stone) in East Anglia, but we don't care about her.
Our focus is the Hoggatt Forensic Science Laboratory, one of whose forensic scientists, who just happens to be hated by many, will be bludgeoned to death before he can finish examining the evidence in the clunch pit case.
The lovely Dalgliesh helicopters in with his appealing sidekick, Massingham, a deeply ordinary aristocrat.
I wanted an easy and short read after completing War and Peace and reached for a murder mystery by an author I'd never read before.
I didn't know what to expect, though P.D. James is a highly acclaimed mystery writer.
The book began with a flurry of character introductions, some of which required some pretty ugly dialogue (think George Lucas ugly).
But once the story got going I became absorbed by all the twists and secrets revealed as a result of the murder investigation.
The last half of the book was gripping and hard to put down.
I'm definitely going to keep my eyes open for more James mysteries.
The Lighthouse was my first Dalgliesh mystery, and I was dismayed to see that this novel was also set on a private island.
Dangerous, murderous places, these private islands.What I have discovered in reading James's novels is that she has a good literary style, which I enjoy, but her writing is poorly organized--undisciplined, one could say.
It's actually a suicide, whose only plot point is to put Gray into the investigatorial position that is vacated by the dead body.The setting of this novel is the fens--that part of Eastern England that resembles the Netherlands.
I actually quite enjoyed the setting; Domenica Scholfield's house was vividly portrayed and I kind of wanted to move in.
After Postern of Fate I decided to try my first-ever PD James. My library has a pretty miserable selection so I wasn't able to find any of her first novels, though I like to try to read in order where possible. The earliest one available was  Death of an Expert Witness , so that's the one I got. It was a delight to read this mystery, especially as a change from the mediocre and pedestrian Postern of Fate. The writing is very good and the mystery well-constructed with detail after detail falling
It was a delight to read this mystery, especially as a change from the mediocre and pedestrian Postern of Fate.
Caring about the characters, even the unsympathetic people, makes the solution to the mystery very suspenseful.
I don't know if his personality comes across better in any of her other books, but here he is the only character I didn't get a strong feeling about.
I think she writes from almost every character's POV at one point or another, sometimes changing mid-paragraph.
Anyway, given the good writing and plotting overall, this wouldn't prevent me from reading more James.
On his way to interview a bereaved relative, Dalgliesh stands on high ground and looks towards Hoggatt’s Laboratory.
Violent death might lurk eastwards in the dark fenlands, but surely not under these neat domestic roofs.” But regular crime readers know that is exactly where crime lurks.Dalgliesh’s observations, about the process of life and death, the motivation of murder, the role of life of art, of religion, of poetry, are becoming denser in the transition which elevated PD James’ books from crime fiction to literary fiction.
Possibly ★★★ 1\2. But it looks as though my rating is about the same as the first time I read it. No memory of the resolution of this book. Maybe it was the fact that I didn't hear it all at one time. It had to go back to the library for a while. So I may have forgotten part of the beginning of the book while I waited to get it again. Still working my way through P.D. James. A Taste for Death is next.
This is P.D. James? Wow. Not all it's cracked up to be, that's for sure. Read it in a nod to her recent passing; wish I had something nice to say about it. Heard a rumor that this isn't her best work, so today I picked up Cover Her Face, the first in the Adam Dalgliesh series, & I'll give it a shot for a second chance at my reading affections.
This being the 6th volume in the series and we are finally seeing what Commander Dalgliesh can do.
In this volume, we have reverted back to seeing Dalgliesh as a bit of a one dimensional character, though this was seen through the eyes of the other characters.
This was the one area where the novel fell down somewhat for me.Otherwise we have a cast of characters with hints of incest and lesbianism, which at the time the novel was written would have been a bit risqué for mainstream authors.
There were so many red herrings and unreliable characters, but it all worked out neatly.
I was little disappointed, not one PD James's best by a long shot. Not a lot of satisfaction with the motives of the killer. It was beautifully set-up but the sort just loses the plot.
This is the sixth in the Adam Dalgliesh detective series.In this mystery the crime scene is the Hoggart Forensic Science Laboratory in East Anglia near Cambridge.
In proceeding to solve the crime, Dalgliesh sometimes shares with us his rationale for proceeding the way he does, questioning and interviewing anyone who might be involved, proceeding logically and determinedly from one step to the next.
He is patient, quiet and careful, skillful at eliciting information during the interviews by asking questions in a particular way, and often eliciting an additional clue to the mystery by this process.
It's the second book I've read by P.D. James, my first being the first Adam Dalgiesh mystery, Cover Her Face, which I found similarly unimpressive.
In the first "book" of 80 pages or so she takes us through the points of view of several suspects, showing us various possible motives before a body is even found and until the end, she juggles the suspects and throws out enough red herrings to keep a reader wondering.
It's not a bad book at all--well-written and psychologically insightful and if I were the sort that read mystery books like peanuts, I might be picking up another.
More sad than anything, because the characters I liked didn't really wind up any better at the end, but that does fit the theme of murder-as-disruption all through the book.
In this case, that's helpful as Dalgliesh and his assistant aren't really that different from each other: conversations between them tend to be based more on age or special knowledge than any real personality or opinion difference.By and large, if you like James's other books, I think you'll like this one.
Feeble of me really; which just goes to show that I clearly wasn’t cut out for that career.This book, in addition to being a very well-crafted story of murder, also brings its reader to face and consider the population of scientists who examine and analyse evidence from a crime scene, before presenting their findings at trial in Court.
On page 308 (of 352) Dalglish sits quietly, engrossed in reading the (English, 1662) Book of Common Prayer (accept no substitutes).
What part or page of that Book was he reading, I wonder?
After all, the killer could be one of Lorrimer’s colleagues, and that person would know how to destroy evidence and mislead investigators.Death of an Expert Witness contains all of P.D. James’s usual trademarks, including haughty professionals who barely have time for Dalgleish’s questions and an isolated institution filled with secrets.
This book, however, was one of the better ones because James did a good job of delving into characters’s personal lives and foibles.There still wasn’t much in the way of subplots, and I don’t think Dalgleish changed at all.
This book shows why James has gained so many fans.
The murder victim is a horrible individual, yet as we slowly find out what pain has brought him to act so insufferably we can understand why he was so unbearable.
James provides insights into the strivings of career builders, social worriers, those trying to hold together marriages, those with financial problems, those dealing with loneliness and rejection, and those wondering if their lives and relationships will be happy ones in the future.
This is a long read, and you should take it slowly.
There is no shortage of suspects and motives, and Adam Dalgliesh is on the case.This is the first Adam Dalgliesh mystery I've read by James and I'm happy to say that I've found a new mystery writer to follow.
As I read this book, I was struck by the human element that James brings to the story.
It's this human element that endeared me to James and also reminded me of another favorite writer of mine,Tana French.
Throughout the book there is a recurring theme that murder is solved at a cost and contaminates everyone involved, the guilty and innocent.
This theme sets James apart and has left me looking forward to reading more.
I started out listening to the audio book version of Death of an Expert Witness.
However, I quickly switched over to a hard copy borrowed from my local library.
I fell in love with P.D. James when I read one of the later Dalgliesh mysteries.
I quickly decided to start from the beginning of the series.
After starting the hard copy version, I couldn't put it down and can't wait to check out the next one.
P.D. James had such a knack for drawing in the reader by crafting a perfect mystery each and every time.
A short take:I love the rhythm of a PD James mystery plot: the deliberate introduction of a varied cast and their multiple motivations, the sudden crime, the appearance of Dalgliesh and the gradual progression of the investigation.
Dalgliesh ruminates that a police investigation lays bare the lives of the people who are touched by a homicide, and this fact motivates much of the story.
James knows exactly what she is about in a murder plot and she steers the story with great skill.
I registered this book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14754246Murder in a laboratory.
Dr. Lorrimer was not loved.
When he was found dead in the laboratory where he managed a section there weren't any mourners.
As it often is with P.D. James, the plot is complex and involves a fair number of persons, whom we get to know rather well.
As does Adam Dalgliesh, who needs to find out which of them killed Lorrimer.
We get to track Lorrimer's relations with others in his lab, with persons on the outside, with those who are affected by his actions from a distance.

