https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76765.A_Stab_in_the_Dark
This fourth book in the Matt Scudder series is an absorbing mystery in itself, but it also deepens and darkens Block's portrait of his hard-drinking, guilt-ridden hero, and, through the use of two effective foils (an alcoholic woman sculptor and a damaged former cop), increases Scudder's self-knowledge and points him toward change.Scudder is hired to investigate the case of Barbara Ettinger, classified as a victim of “The Icepick Killer” when she was murdered nine years ago.
But “The Icepick Killer” has recently been caught and—although he has frankly confessed to all the other crimes—he claims he had nothing to do with the Ettinger stabbing.
The killer was finally apprehended and it turns out he was in an asylum at the time of the eighth murder.
That's what her father, Charles London, is paying Matthew Scudder to find out...Lawrence Block does it again.
In the fourth volume, Matthew Scudder struggles with his alcoholism and follows a trail nine years cold.
Once again, Block did a good job tricking me into thinking I knew who the killer was.
Scudder continues to struggle with his alcoholism.
The supporting cast is well done, especially Jan.The Matthew Scudder series continues to be one of my favorites.
Lawrence Block continues to wow me.
London needs a "favor." Nine years earlier, his daughter, Barbara Ettinger, was viciously stabbed to death, apparently by a maniac who was known as the Ice Pick Killer and who claimed seven other victims.
He also has an iron-clad alibi for the time Ettinger was murdered, given that he was in custody on that day.London had come to whatever peace he could find, assuming that his daughter's death was simply an inexplicable piece of bad luck.
The cops claim there's nothing they can do, given the time that has elapsed, and so London walks into Armstrong's saloon and asks Scudder to take on the job.
These Matthew Scudder books aren't action-packed, sometimes they're even slow, but boy howdy, do I ever enjoy them!I like the picture you get of New York City in the '70s (At least with these first few books in the series.
All of these things and probably a few more I'm forgetting right now just jive really well with my reading tastes!Usually with these books there's a certain amount of psychology, as in the psychology of the killer.
These Scudder books are fairly short after all.
Stick to bourbon.
A little bourbon would take the edge off the brandy rush.
A little bourbon would take the edge off almost anything.
~A Stab in the Dark Ah, Matt.
He meets a woman this time that suffers from the same malady as Matt, but she has a name for it -- alcoholic.
Like any good boozer who ain't ready to jump on that proverbial wagon and stay there, Matt doesn't see himself as having a problem.
It's a sad book really.
Now on to Book 5 - Eight Million Ways to Die. What's in store for you, Matt?
Having reread the first four, I’m very happy to find that these are actually even better than I originally thought.Matt gets hired by a man whose daughter, Barbara, was supposedly killed by a serial killer with an icepick nine years earlier.
The killer was recently caught but while he’s confessing to the other murders, he denies killing Barbara.
This book is yet another stage in Matt’s relationship to the booze where he gets dangerously drunk without realizing it, and it’s the first time that he even starts to consider the idea that he may be an alcoholic, even if he quickly denies it.
Mas se não foi ele, quem terá sido?Matthew Scudder é um ex-polícia, que abandonou a força policial por razões pessoais, agora detective particular, sem licença profissional, inteligente e extremamente perspicaz, que no seu passado de detective estivera envolvido na investigação – inconclusiva - dos crimes do homem do picador de gelo.
I even got so far as starting on a bit of a tirade regarding the use of an icepick as a murder weapon (see below).
the dangerous weapon of choice, as Scudder, too, takes issue with the instrument of choice.This isn’t much in the way of a review, but, for me, it says quite a lot when I can enjoy a story in spite of myself.
A Murderous Query: I have a lot of questions vis-à-vis the (literary) use of icepicks as murder weapons.
What kind of icepicks are we talking about?
So, are we just talking the long needley kind that look like awls?
You may think that he's getting nowhere but somehow all his questions and all his footwork are enough to force the villain of the piece in to an error and thus the case gets solved seemingly out of the blue.I've been reading the Martin Beck series of detective novels alongside these Scudder's and it seems to me that the Swedes get a lot of credit for planning a complete 10 book series in advance - criticising society, the police force etc - but the obvious development of Matt Scudder in these books from Lawrence Block and their unflinching portrait of New York (as a microcosm for America) as a cesspit of decaying morals (including the police department) required just as much forethought and planning and is equally as impressive if not more so.
The father of the eighth victim realizes he needs a new kind of closure and hires Scudder to investigate.
He pursues it like a terrier; hanging on, chasing down leads from nine years ago, drinking his way through the city.
Slowly, it dawned on me as I read that Scudder's drinking was out of control.
It's interesting the way Block writes it; the murders capture the reader's attention while Scudder slowly slides off the bar stool in the background.
Definitely a likeable read, with a surprise ending to the murder that I'm not entirely sure was believable.
It appears that he's in denial but I guess I'll find that out shortly as it looks like it's starting to replace water as his main source of hydration - someone can only do that for so long.Considering that Scudder is given a case that's 9 years old with the victim being "buried so goddamn deep", Block shows the true range of Scudder's talent.
Don't even get me started on another big reveal at the end which I also didn't clue in on (but I'd be shocked to know of anyone who did).Once again, I'll finish with how excited I am to continue this series.
*3.5 Stars*It's going to get harder and harder writing fresh reviews for these Lawrence Block novels, that don't sound terribly repetitive!
Once again he has written a solid piece of detective mystery fiction in this latest installment in his Matthew Scudder series, about an ex-cop who lives a lonely life in a hotel room in Manhattan and does "favors" for people as an unlicensed private investigator.
In this novel, Scudder takes on a nine-year old cold case after a serial killer is finally caught, and confesses to all of his suspected killings except for one.
This book is my fav Scudder so far and not because of the plot,mystery he has to detect this time.
Scudder struggling with his alcoholism,his life in general is interesting as always.
The case was interesting,not too flashy,convulted plot twists like there is too often in PI stories.
I like it was mostly instinct,legwork much more realistic than what you usually see in the subgenre.After this novel Block has risen many levels in my eyes as a writer of PI crime,a writer of great characters,human stories.
The cover blurb comparing him to Hammett stories isnt hyperbole.
Such a great mystery with twists and turns (trite comment, too) which kept me wondering 'who dunnit' until the end.
Was thinking earlier, I'm not good on puzzles, chess, a multitude of games so never should expect to figure out the 'who dunnit' of any mystery.
Speaking of the same bar he says "I guess I didn't look as though I belonged there, and I hope to God I never do." Block writes like he's talking to me and I just love that.Sorry that you had to endure my rambling about trite terms I hate.
Matthew Scudder is a must for mystery lovers and such an enjoyable read, always.
Um livro que já estava há muito tempo na estante e que resolvi ler para o desafio de leitura do blogue. É uma narrativa de leitura fácil, com uma história que prometia, mas que acabou por não me surpreender nem agarrar como esperava. A leitura também pode ter sido influenciada pela minha falta de tempo e pelo cansaço.
My least favorite of the Scudder books so far. My enjoyment of this series comes from Scudder dealing with all his personal issues not from the cases he runs. Not that the cases are bad, that's just not what thrills me. This book had a couple of those moments, talking with another cop who left the force, discussing drinking habits with a new girlfriend, a phone conversation with his ex-wife but not enough for me. Block does a good job of portraying the mundane aspects of investigating but that's not what I'm looking for in a Scudder book.
Glad to get to the end of the book. I'm not much of a fan of alcoholic former cop detectives. Don't think I will be reading another Scudder book. Did remind of the days when you needed to find a pay phone and a telephone book in order to call anybody! 2 Stars
I enjoyed this a lot. A quick read and with a surprisingly amount of character work along with a pretty good mystery.
Tortured soul Scudder tries to help a businessman whose only daughter was killed by a serial ice pick wielder. The only problem - she wasn't.
Here is a bit of the blurb by an unreliable editor who apparently had no idea about this story or this character: “Investigator Matthew Scudder, Lawrence Block’s relentless and charismatic plainclothesman extraordinaire, returns… Block’s detective (is) at his most vulnerable and most resourceful, on an assignment that challenges—and finally redeems—not only his superior abilities, but his belief in them and himself in the process.” Scudder is a desolate alcoholic, living in the gutter because he can’t live with the guilt of his actions, which caused the death of a young child.Well, this story is great.
I had plan to read at least three books from other authors before I go back to Lawrence Block.
But like Matt Scudder's obsession with bourbon, I am obsessed to Lawrence Blocks' books.
A serial killer tabloided as Icepick prowler who picks eyes of innocent random women after he stabs them to death, gets caught by utter fluke and indicted presumably for eight murders.He confesses to seven of those eight killings, leaving Barbara Ettinger's murder which was presumed for nine years after hear death to be his work, unwraps the whole new possibilities.
8/10Another solid entry into the Scudder series with the usual case of top notch detective work using grit and determination to find answers long hidden but also the addition/continuation of Matt Scudder's downward spiral with alcohol.
After a while it was all good and I enjoyed the narrator but I believe it's someone else in the next book which is going to annoy me again!This is a great story and well worth reading, the series is getting its claws into me now and I look forward to picking them up.
I think this my favorite Lawrence Block novel to date. Great stuff!
What a great series! Ex-cop and unlicensed PI Matt Scudder is a brilliant flawed hero. My New Year's resolution for 2015 is to read more Lawrence Block books!
The best one in the series so far finds Scudder trying to solve a 9 year old murder that was mistakenly attributed to a serial killer.The plot is smart without being convoluted, a coincidence solves it in the end but it is integrated in the story in a manner that feels organic.
It is more accessible than a lot of other great mystery/crime series as it is pretty low on violence.
Accessible, Perfect to Binge, A great protagonist.

Matthew Scudder prowls the streets of New York in hope of finding a thread of a murder trail that has long been cold.
A serial killer has confessed to the murder of seven woman, but insists he had nothing to do with the death of an eighth victim.
The dead woman's father hires Scudder to investigate, and the facts he uncovers tend to confirm the killer's claim of innocence.
This tells him a new killer purposely copied earlier crimes—which makes it likely he had a personal motive.
Scudder, very much the hard-drinking loner, stays on the case like a dog with a bone, even after his own client has attempted to dismiss him.
As always, Block has produced a reliable, well-written mystery with wisdom and insight. Scudder's drinking always bothers me, but that's the point, and I know there's a trajectory, having read the novels in no reasonable order. Block is really good.
Synopsis/blurb....Louis Pinell, the recently apprehended "Icepick Prowler," freely admits to having slain seven young women nine years ago -- but be swears it was a copycat who killed Barbara Ettinger Matthew Scudder believes him.
Pinell, the killer has an alibi for when Barbara was slain and London wants Scudder to make some enquiries because the police aren’t particularly interested.
Who was responsible for Ettinger’s death and why?Scudder’s enquiries lead him back to Ettinger’s husband at the time, who may or may not having been cheating on Barbara and could ostensibly have been responsible for the murder.
There's a Lawrence Block cult among the crime fiction readers and although I really liked the first couple Matthew Scudder novels, I didn't understand where all that reverence was coming from.
He's a brute and an old fashioned guy, but his heart's in the right place.The dialogue in this novel is crushingly good.
So good, I dropped to one knee three or four times and felt the sting of shame thinking of my unworthy attempts at writing dialogue lines.
Sometimes it doesn't matter, masters of the keyboard like Lawrence Block pack it all in the delivery.Tremendous novel.
