https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84030.Moses_Man_of_the_Mountain
This felt like a longer read than Zora's previous novels, but it was easier too.
I'm actually reading the King James version of the Exodus at night as I read this book, feels like a good companion.
Leaves me to wonder how people viewed this book.
I liked this book because you don't have to be religious to enjoy this or get this either.
Some might be bothered seeing Moses as a black man, but for me it makes sense with how Zora writes the book.I think out of all her novels, this one is the most integrating one.
You know, she didn't just write one novel...
The story of the Hebrews, slaves in Egypt, told through the lens of Africans, slaves in America.Book Review: Moses, Man of the Mountain shows the strengths of wily Zora Neale Hurston, godmother to writers such as Alice Walker and Toni Morrison.
Here she tells the story of Moses and the Exodus her way, like no other, retelling the story with black slaves from the American South somehow replacing the Hebrew slaves of the original tale in Egypt under Pharaoh.
But it was her vision as she wrote Moses, Man of the Mountain.
Moses, Man of the Mountain is well worth reading.
A really powerful take on a very old story.Hurston is a black female author from the 1930s, and I read this book precisely because this was a demographic and time that I haven't had much exposure to as a reader before.
A lot of time is spent developing Moses' struggles: with who he is, who he has to be, and who he wants to be.
As well, Hurston does a great job capturing Moses' frustrations with the Israelites, all while trying to make them, in his words, great.I recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a refreshing and captivating interpretation of the Exodus story.
To date 'Their Eyes Were Watching God' is Hurston's most notable piece of work, and the first book I read by her, but I actually prefer this book.Hurston is magical at bringing characters to life, and this is what I really like about her writing and this book.
Some of the dialogue between the characters was amazing, and so real.I really appreciated the metaphorical symbolism in this book, as well as its allusions.It's a pity this book often gets overlooked for 'Their Eyes Were Watching God', as I absolutely loved it!
Lots of sentences in here that I loved, and some that startled me because they sounded like sentences I would have written if I was talking about the same thing, which I think means that Their Eyes Were Watching God was a bigger influence on me than I realized and that I should probably read it again.
I wanna read Hurston's essays now too.The main thing I didn't like about this here book was how it shifted all the cool things that Aaron, Miriam, and even God did in the Exodus version and attributed them to Moses.
In the version in Exodus, Moses is scared to talk to people because he stutters, so Aaron is the one who makes all the speeches.
This is yet another thoroughly delightful - if completely different - book from Hurston. As a colorful and thoughtful depiction of Moses's life it's surprisingly accurate and thought-provoking. Where it does diverge from or expound upon the Biblical account, it is still contemplative and challenging. This is easily one of the best pieces of Biblical fiction I've ever read, and certainly the best account of the Exodus.
The forward said that the author was drawing a parallel betweenthe Israelites in Egypt and the slaves in America.
It said she was also drawing a parallel betweenthe Israelites in Egypt with the Jews in Hitler's Germany.
Part of my problem with the book was the detailed account of Moses'searly life such as his highly successful military career , his becoming a magician, his study of all of nature, and his overcomingJethro's enemies in Midian.
The portion that covered him leading the Israelites out of Egyptand their problems on the road to the promised land was much more tomy liking.
I especially liked Moses and the pharaoh talking smackto each other.
If you are interested in a telling of the Exodus that is faithful to the strictures of the Biblical narrative, do not read this book.
If you are interested in a wildly imaginative, deeply felt, psychologically detailed, and socially charged retelling of the Exodus, read this book.
It reminded me that the Exodus narrative, while I believe is historically true, is also flexible as metaphor and symbol.
It can be applied easily to black slavery, Naziism, and basic every day tensions between the need to fulfill immediate desires the necessary sacrifices required to follow a great and true God. Hurston's book is loving, playful, funny, and fulfilling.
This book was so good, and so relevant to today's world that I wept that I was finished. This is a book of fiction (as is the Bible) It was never meant to be an actual testimony of what transpired 2 millenia ago. And one needs to ne mindful Hurston was initiated into no less than 5 different hoodoo sects... She's not a Christian
I've read this many years ago, and nothing has changed. What a great book to read.
I enjoyed the mysticism and the writing, but was surprised by the misogyny.
By weaving African-American folklore, speech patterns, and images of emancipation with Biblical symbols and tradition, she creates powerful parallels that expand even beyond any initial reading.
Her prose is so RICH and rewarding to read, and I feel like I could read this book two more times and still not grasp all that she did with the characters, dialogue, and plot structure.
My copy had a critical essay at the back about the context the book was written in, and coming to understand how this novel came to exist among antisemitism and anti-blackness worldwide, as well as before the burgeoning Holocaust and Jim Crow eras, made the reading experience even more profound.
I’m not sure how to write a review for a book that feels so similar to reading the Bible. This is definitely one of those books I’ll come back to again in the future. It was not at all what I expected—an antebellum-era retelling of Exodus—but enjoyable and thought-provoking nonetheless. There were some powerful scenes, some sassy scenes, and some downright hilarious scenes in this. Zora, how do you do it?
Knowing that it was no surprise that she wrote Moses Man of the Mountain the way she did.
Moses is presented as the all knowing leader touched by God with magic.
Considering how much a feminist darling Their Eyes Were Watching God is, I really doubt she would occupy that space if she really held those views.Beyond that this book was a lot of fun to read and I enjoyed Hurston using Southern Black slang and cultural markers in the text to create a story all her own.
An imaginative retelling of Moses' life's story, Zora Neale Hurston gives an alternative perspective to Moses' origins, motives, and miracles, and in the process, creates an allegory for African American emancipation and struggle for freedom in America.Moses is given or feels a heavy duty-to free the Hebrews from Egypt.
And the very next law is that people talk about tenderness and mercy, but they love force.
If you feed a thousand people you are a nice man with suspicious motives.
Continue to get them killed by the thousands and you are a great conqueror, than which nothing on earth is greater.

I have wanted to read this book since I was a divinity student at Howard University.
I was not disappointed.
Hurston takes the biblical events and makes them her own - not a minor task.
I know the story, but it was a could not put down read to see how it happened.
I am not African American, so I cannot know how Hurston brought the African American experience to the story.
I can say that I found both the familiar and the strange in the narrative, which of course, just means it was a good book.
As always, Hurston's poetic prose is a delight to read.
The mixture of biblical story and African American dialect I found powerful, changing how I felt about scenarios and characters, and leading me to draw parallels between the Civil Rights movement and American slavery to the Jews of Egypt and their plight.
However the story, even though she certainly makes it her own, I found less captivating than her other novels.
So for me, I loved reading this because I love reading Hurston, not because I loved the plot.
One gripe, the female characters are pretty much all materialistic and one dimensional.
This book was selected for a book club I belong to. It's not my type of book. I had a hard time getting into the flow of the book - primarily because it was the biblical story of Moses. The hep black Harlem style of "talking" took some getting used reading. In the end, I have to say I enjoyed the book. I was impressed how Hurston was able to fictionalize the story without loosing the basic Moses/Exodus story line. I realized that the biblical Moses story was probably somewhat fictionalized too. Sorry my fundamentalist friends.
LOVE LOVE LOVE this book!
Just re-read it for at least the third time.
I'm almost through with "The Warmth of Other Suns" and was compelled to re-read ..
Ms. Hurston is one of my favorite authors; her forays into the South during the time of Jim Crow and her interpretation of the Exodus in light of what I am reading in Isabel Wikerson's brilliant history of the Great MIgration add another layer to her Hurston's telling of the bondage, exodus, and attempted unification as a people at a time of dictatorship.
This book is a must read for so many reasons.
The book stayed pretty true to the actual book of Exodus, except parts where you had to actually revisit the Bible to reference if it was fact or fiction. I'm a big fan of Hurston, with this book being no exception. I especially love how she created a familiar Souther dialect for these people who reigned in the times of Ancient Egypt. Extremely create stuff that'll inspire many more creators in generations to come.
My favorite Hurston book. It's a wonderful narrative, and she is brilliant in the way she brings the Exodus story to characters in 20th century Harlem. Hurston allows you to see her criticism of relagion and of the shorcomings and frailties of Afrcian American people of that era, but does it in a way that is more endearing than demeaning. I love this book, and find myself going back to it periodically, even though I've read it for three decades.
A book about making your own emancipation. Hurston attempt to bridge the gap between the freedom of the individual and the freedom of a society. Also looks at how oppression can come from both within as well as outside a culture. Biblical stories told in southern dialect (with a well-played game of the dozens thrown in as well.)
This book is wonderful. As always, Hurston works magic with words. Her Moses is a lot more interesting than any Moses in my previous reading, but that is not surprising. The only surprising thing is that I never read this before. The author is pretty hard on human failings, so it is not all fun and games, but I found it very compelling.
The old familiar story of Exodus and the life of Moses as seen through the eyes of one of Florida's greatest writers is a treat. The themes of religion and slavery are inherent to any Moses story but what struck me was the undercurrent theme about the purpose of man. Hurston is bold in her humanization of such a well known story from the Bible.
An interesting retelling of the story of Moses. Im a big fan of Hurston but this didn’t add much to the story other than telling it colloquially rather than biblically. The last chapter was beautiful though, and I can easily imagine it as the author speaking of herself
My favorite Zora Neale Hurston book so far. The Moses story told from a Harlem Renaissance 1939 Africa American perspective. Very interesting insights. I would have liked it better if it had been more faithful to the Biblical Moses account, but very good none the less.
Definitely recommendZora Neale Hurston is one of my favorite authors and this book is no exception. Beautiful and poignant in it's tone, Moses, Man of the Mountain is a powerful telling of a classic tale meant to shed light on the contemporary struggles humanity faces.
An intriguing retelling of the story of Moses and the Exodus story. Along the way, Hurston reflects on the meaning of freedom and what it means to be a people bound by oppression finding their way, leadership and sacrifice.
A prose-gospel reselling of the story of Moses, a hymn of a novel sung to celebrate African American culture as well as the Old Testament story.
