https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62344.Baby_and_Child_Care
Another book I am reading for the book I am writing.
One of my favorite outtakes thus far from this book updated in 1962:"[A father:] might make the formula on Sunday.
If the baby is on a 2 A.M. bottle in the early weeks, when the mother is still pretty tired, this is a good feeding for the father to take over.
It's nice for him, if he can, to go along to the doctor's office for the baby's regular visits.
It gives him a chance to bring up those questions that are bothering him and that he doesn't think his wife understands the importance of.
It pleases the doctor too."
Probably the most important book in my library for the first 10 years of my kids' lives. It was the book to turn to when they had spots or fevers or just would not go to sleep.... Dr. Spock always gave common sense advice. The reference guide to symptoms in the back was invaluable more than once in answering the huge question every new parent has -- it is 2:00 in the morning - "should I call the doctor for this, or can it wait until morning?"
وأخيرااااً :Dمرجع رائع وشامل لكل ما قد يحتاجه الطفل من عناية نفسية وبدنية منذ الولادة وحتى المراهقة ، معلومات قيمة ومحدثة مع كل طبعة ، لا غنى عنه ويغني عن قراءة الكتب التي تتناول نفس الموضوعات برأيي. برأيي أيضاً ان قراءته مهمه قبل اتخاذه كمرجع في المكتبة لأن المعلومات فيه خصبة جدا وسيساعد جدا تحديد النقاط المهمه بحيث يسهل الرجوع اليها بسرعه وهو ما فعلته طيلة هذه الصفحات الكثيرة جداً :D
This is a wonderful book for ALL parents to read.
Actually, it's a wonderful book for ANYONE to read, even children.
It helps the parent approach every situation with the basic knowledge needed.
It also gives great resources for further information on specific needs, including children's books that might help at certain moments.
Since the book covers all stages of childhood and all types of children, certain portions may never apply to any one child or family.
My strategy was to read the whole book so that I have been exposed to the whole gamut of parenting questions.
The best description is perhaps the one Spock himself chose for the title of the first edition of his book, “common sense.” “Trust yourself,” he told young parents, "you know more than you think you do."2) His (first) wife, Jane, whom he divorced after 48 years of marriage, was inadequately recognized and poorly rewarded for her extensive contribution to the book.
At what point does transcribing, performing background research, fact-checking, recipe-testing, editing, consulting experts, rewriting, and more cross the blurry line from an acknowledgment, even (belatedly) a generous acknowledgment, into full-fledged co-authorship?
Jane always felt she'd been shortchanged, and a good case could be made for her claim.For a more extensive discussion of these and other issues, please check out my blog post:http://www.projectdiana-eme.com/to-th...
My mother gave all her daughters, daughter-in-laws, many nieces, then started with granddaughters as they made her a great-grandma, a copy of Dr. Spock's Baby and Childcare.
My copy was a much earlier edition than this one.I referred back to the book many times as my babies matured into toddlers, and so on.
I do not recall exactly as Dr. Spock said it, but it was what I most remembered and adhered to ~ if we could not remember what to do in an emergency or for illness, to do the first thing we thought of doing ~ which would usually be correct.That worked for me ~ often I would refer to the book after the fact and learn I had handled things in manner Spock prescribed.
We've read though the chapters on pregnancy. Now I guess it is almost time for the infant section. Yikes!!
Excellent Resource for quick infant/child health info.
Liniștitoare în privința depresiei și a greutăților de început.
Awesome Book. Learned A Lot of Stuff I Didn't Know. Great Book For Any Mom.
This handbook is meant as a reference so I focused only on a few topics that might help me learn how adult personalities/habits/behaviors are shaped by childhood influences.Best learning happens when babies are presented with a relaxed, supportive, nurturing environment, not by cold, forced, unwanted, unnatural facts (like flashcards).Downside of overacademic approach: interferes with play (way they learn, develop social skills, spark creativity).When they love what they learn, they remember it longer.Thinking develops in stages; don't rush the process by skipping phases.Read to babies.
They enjoy the sound and feeling of being held.Foster love for stories by reading them aloud, and talk about them to spark interest.
Put her to bed with a bottle full of milk so she doesn’t need to get up in the middle of the night to be fed.All of which, thanks to Dr Spock’s Baby & Childcare (9th Edition, with Dr Robert Needlman), I managed to discover – well in time – to be bad for baby (the honey on the pacifier and the milk through the night are surefire ways of causing tooth decay, even before baby’s teeth are out; the pillow can be the cause of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome; and orange juice is not recommended for children below a year of age).
საკმაოდ კარგი რჩევებია. გუგლი რომ არ არსებობდა, იმ პერიოდში ბრწყინვალე საშუალება იქნებოდა. ყველა საკითხი ერთადაა თავმოქუჩული.
Unlike some guides, it's arranged topically rather than by age, so skipping around is really a necessity.
It gives some great advice and gives a lot of the "whys" of childcare - why shouldn't you save the extra food from the baby jar?
so what if saliva gets into the rest of the food?
Hearing it from other places just makes those people sound paranoid or that they just want you to spend more money on baby food.
:) And this book doesn't make you feel slow, stupid, or paranoid.
I like that in a parenting guide!
So with a daughter on the way, I've found myself reading rearing books. I'm getting great information, but only made it as far as the twos. Where are the dragons? Ninja assassins? Robots and their laws? There wasn't even one chapter on where in the nursery is best for katana placement. Seriously. I have no idea where to put my swords. Spock was no help for that. It's funny saying (or rather thinking) that. Usually, most Vulcans are good in a pinch. I think that joke is too old, but that's the most I got from that book.
Except we're reading the 1954 edition. The "in place of a crib, you can place your baby in a bureau drawer or a clothes basket" edition. His take on post-partum depression is pretty good, too. Honestly, it is. Gotta love it. Mostly reading it for fun and because Mom gave it to me. Worked for her. I don't think any of us turned out that horribly. Can't find the chapter where he says it's ok to put netting on top of a play pen (poor Edie!), but I"m sure it's in there.
Читала долго, так как многие моменты так возмущали, что приходилось делать длительные перерывы.Книга очень устаревшая в некоторых моментах, в других - откровенно жестокая по современным меркам.
Если честно, я очень надеюсь, что мои родители руководствовались здравым смыслом, а не советами из именно этой книги, для моего воспитания.
Хотя это объяснило бы многие комплексы у меня и старшего брата.
Или они уже от нашего личного опыта социализации?Другими словами, для общего развития родителя книга может пригодиться, но надо очень критически подходить к информации и советам.
Возможно, самая относительно адекватная часть книги - о болезнях, но опять же лучше руководствоваться советами своего врача.
Along with the wpnderful and patient advice my wife and I got from our mothers, this book offered the best practical advice on raising our children, who turned out to be smart, polite, talented, and sociable adults.
Read during the 1970's.
Naturally I understand why, as the world is constantly changing and parents need to know what's going on.
I can't speak for everyone, as this book may have been the best thing to happen for some parents.
Furthermore, at least for me, the text doesn't provide enough room to discuss cultural differences in child-rearing and interaction, which may not fit into mainstream parenting ideas.
She replied: "I didn't need a class to tell me how to breathe, or someone to show me how to feed my child." When the time comes for me to have children, I'm just going to ask my mother for advice.
I like to imagine myself as a low-stress mother who only felt the need to consult an expert guide for the occasional difficulty.
Having read several million books, I can say that too much information is definitely too much.
One example of practical advice that worked well for us -- Dr. Spock says that it's often good for young babies to be kept nearby their parents without being the centre of attention.
This low-stress, low-demand parenting advice ended up working out best for us, at least in that case -- which was a major relief.
But I want to warn you people that Dr. Benjamin Spock was a really nice guy.
He is one of the nicest guys I ever met.But don't read his book.
It won't tell you how nice he is.So here's the question: Am I going to get deleted by Goodreads because I talked about the author but never read the book...even if it was positive?
It seems to me that if they are going to keep their silly policy on reviewing the book not the author, I'm in violation.
terrifying.
could not finish.
This passage: "Even when feelings during pregnancy are primarily positive, there may be a letdown when the baby actually arrives.
Parents may expect to recognize the baby immediately as their own flesh and blood, to respond with an overwhelming rush of maternal and paternal feelings, and to bond like epoxy.
But in many cases, this doesn't happen on the first day or even in the first week.
Completely normal negative feelings often pop up.
A good and loving parent may have the sudden though that having a baby has been a terrible mistake -- and then feel instantly guilty for having felt that way."
I'm currently reading the 40th edition of this classic book. Of course, some of the information is dated, such as how to prepare bottles, but so far Dr. Spock's general philosophy on child rearing seems reasonable. Interestingly, my parents used this book when I was a baby; hopefully that's not where they got some of their funny ideas! I guess I'll find out as I read more.I quit reading this as it was so dated. I found the Sears books to be more up-to-date and relevant to my parenting approach.

Incredibly thorough and all-encompassing.As a parent and school-based Speech-Language Pathologist, I highly recommend this book. It has sections about every topic you can think of relating to kids. It is a long and factual book, so it is not a quick read. Some might find it better to use like a reference book, as needed. Others may want to skim parts that they already feel well-versed in. Dr. Spock was ahead of his time, and this book is completely up-to-date and fact based.
Intended as a resource for parents who have children of all ages, I would only this book as a supplement to a more detailed book.
Spock's aim is for breadth, not depth.
Although what it written seems sound ( I highlighted and dog-eared relevant pages), I stopped about 20% in, since I only have a two year old and am expecting our second child.
This book contains up to date information and resources, but by the time I will need to use the adolescent section, this book will be outdated.
Still, I maintain that the pages relevant to me were helpful.
Sound, practical advice, particularly on medical issues. (It's a bit light on developmental/emotional issues.) It should be noted that Dr. Spock did not actually author this edition of the book, though he is quoted liberally throughout it.This book does contain what were when I read them my favorite twenty words in the English language: "An occasional glass or two of wine or beer for a breastfeeding mother will do no harm to her baby."
My favorite thing about this book is its matter-of-fact tone. It isn't alarmist as so many baby and child care manuals are. It doesn't lay out a step-by-step plan or push a particular philosophy, so this isn't the book to read if you're looking for, say, a detailed guide on feeding solids or sleep training. However, it's a very good overview of all things child rearing, and it has a large reference section for further info on a variety of topics.
Quite a good read for wanna be mother's. it's still nice to participate in some parenting practical classes. the book is really useful for calming your mommy self about the illnesses your baby may face up until her first year. Doctor Spock was a great hero among our grandmothers and mothers. maybe it's a good idea to know of his methods for upbringing of kids but mix them with something a bit more updated too.
