https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9118135-state-of-wonder
The characters were weak and hard to identify with, the plot seemed like something of a time past (yet wasn't), and the outcome of it all was ridiculous.
Lazy!Let's go for a ride: -American researcher dead in the jungle and his colleague goes to Brazil to find out more - REALLY?-a creepy Australian couple guards the gates?
NOW DO MINE." (Insert dramatic music and commercial break)-other random doctors think everything is awesome AND WHY SHOULDN'T THEY?-Fantastic Mr. Fox and one of the creepy Australians come to the jungle too!
I would say I was in State(s) of: Interest, Appreciation, Mild Irritation, Interest Modified by Moments of Irritation, Shock, and then Milder Shock that dwindled into a State of General Annoyance, which would possibly make it the longest book title in history.A super-summary: Although she trained as an OB/GYN doctor, Marina is working in service of evil a pharmaceutical drug researcher who has studied cholesterol for the past seven years with her co-researcher, Anders Eckman.
The dog would have to be Anders."Unfortunately, her prose could not quite bring Marina to full, vivid life.
At Minnesota-based Vogel pharmaceuticals, weeks-old news of bio-researcher Anders Eckman’s Amazonian demise leads the company to send another scientist to find out what happened, and to complete Eckman’s charge.
And Minnesota offers an image of coldness to contrast with the heat of the Brazilian jungle.In the quest for self-discovery, a Campbell-ian hero ventures from his/her quotidian home, in this case Eden Prairie, where Vogel Pharmaceuticals is ironically located, to a place of supernatural power, slays a dragon, literally or figuratively, thus gaining power, and boogies on home, enlarged.
The pharmaceutical company in question is called Vogel, German for bird.
Marina gains some hope of redemption.
It is the book that I sold by hand as a bookseller and the book that I still pass along to friends.
I should keep a stack of them since I have handed mine off so many times that I never know if I have a copy or not.
Since reading that book, I have read Patchett's other books and enjoyed them all, particularly "Run," but never again have I had that out-of-body, transcendent reading experience until now.
I dare any reader to put the book down during the final fifty pages.
A scientific jungle experiment/investigation involving an elderly and rather secretive matriarchal doctor who leads the experiment, a missing/deceased company representative who was sent to investigate what the experiment is up to, and a female company representative (who happens to also be a former medical student of the matriarch) who is sent to investigate what happened to the previous company representative.In spite of lengthy descriptions of the experiment and professorial soliloquising by
The two specific scenes were described, but more 'poetically' than graphically.Personally I don't think it's worth the read, but if melodramatic and rather bizarre scientific experiments set in the middle of the jungle and told in the style of a higher-level tv drama sound enticing, then the quality of the writing may make this slightly higher-level than others of its type.
This marks the third time that I have dipped into the writing pool of Ann Patchett and let me tell you, she does not disappoint!
Her former mentor's work is at the center of her journey and involves a little known tribe of people whose ability to procreate extends well into their seventies and proves to be as closely linked to their life's rituals as the environment in which they live.
Patchett is such a fine writer that you become an unseen guest on this quest into the Amazon rain forest.
This novel was just what I've been looking for this summer: a dazzling story, a meaty pile of ethical questions, characters that endure long after the book is over, and prose that gets more beautiful the more you notice it.
I didn't love the novel's end; it was a bit too rushed for me, and the sudden pile-on of action left me wanting more of the slow build-up that carried us to the climax.
It occurs to me, though, that wanting more of a book is as good a sign as any that it won me over completely.
Marina Singh, a scientist working for a pharmaceutical company, Vogel, in Minnesota, is sent down to the jungle of Brazil to find out what happened in the death of her close co-worker, Anders.
The details provided via mail regarding Ander’s death are minimal and the tightly knit crew working in Brazil with Dr. Swenson are hardly forthcoming when Marina arrives.
I found the story itself to be interesting and also have to admire how Ann Patchett has once again, created an unusual yet believable and captivating book.
Of the 4 Patchett books I’ve read so far, State of Wonder is easily my second favorite after Commonwealth.
Ann Patchett is one of my veryveryvery favorite writers, and rereading her books is such a joy.The story follows Dr. Marina Singh, who is tasked with going to the Amazon to learn what happened to a colleague who died while working on a new drug.
Singh's journey is both perilous and emotional, and this reader was captivated all over again by her adventure.If you like beautiful writing, descriptive storytelling and characters who are so real you feel like you would recognize them on the street, you should get yourself an Ann Patchett book.
In contrast, once Marina arrives in the jungle, we would actually like more minutiae about the basics of living there.Frivolous notes: I heard Patchett on a local radio show (she sounds like someone who is a lot of fun and a good friend)and she described naming two characters for a Nashville couple who bought the opportunity to have Patchett name characters for them at a charity auction.
Patchett described the real-life Bovenders as generous arts patrons and wonderful people.
She did not go on to share that another couple in this novel are named for beloved Nashvillians, Nancy and Alan Saturn.
I really wanted to like this book.
After all, there are all the raving reviews, and it's the kind of story that usually grabs and holds my interest (jungle adventure + medical drama), but I couldn't finish it.
In fact, I gave up after the 4th disc (the audio book has 11 discs).
The story plods on like the stifling heat of the jungle, so slow, that it was all padding and no plot for almost half of the book!
There was hardly any story in the first 4 chapters!
I also dislike the audio rendition by Hope Davis.
Will they ever get it out of the Amazon basin or will it remain another secret of the rainforest?The narrative keeps us balanced between the wonders of the remote rainforests and the dangers ready to inflict damage at any moment.
The wonderful writing creates an imagery that enables us to step inside this world and see the expanse and allure of the rainforests, feel the humidity and atmosphere of the jungle, and get a sense of the hidden tribes in these regions.
I love the pace Ann Patchett delivers in her books that is gentle and flowing and just keeps you wanting to turn the pages.
I love Patchett's writing style and I highly recommend this book.
Dr. Singh is fragile & incompetent,(view spoiler)[ the kind of woman that loses all her luggage – twice!
Tackles the ethical ambiguities surrounding medical research and the impact of scientific exploration on native cultures.Maybe I’m a bit slow but I didn’t see the ending coming, nor did I find it abrupt.
Once Marina boards that boat and heads down the Amazon though you’ll be hooked.
Also, enough with the rehashing of Marina's nightmare about losing her father.
She’s got abandonment issues and a father complex, I got it, really no need to hit me over the head with a 2 by 4.
Marina isn't stating it aloud - the reader is basically inside her head - yet there are continual interruptions where she has a conversation or notes something she sees or hears.
Are we meant to believe that Marina is literally thinking out the words we're reading and keeps getting interrupted?
As the book moves forward the sheer volume of convenient plot twists and coincidences made me want to scream.
Anders and Marina have sex?
Ridiculous.There is one thing that is quite good about this book - the writing about the jungle.
From the official blurb:"Award-winning "New York Times"-bestselling author Ann Patchett (Bel Canto, The Magician's Assistant) returns with a provocative novel of morality and miracles, science and sacrifice set in the Amazon rainforest--a gripping adventure story and a profound look at the difficult choices we make in the name of discovery and love.In a narrative replete with poison arrows, devouring snakes, scientific miracles, and spiritual transformations, State of Wonder presents a world of stunning surprise and danger, rich in emotional resonance and moral complexity."NOTESA little bit of adventure, a whole lot of human intrigue, a slow-moving drama playing itself out on the metaphorical fine line between jungle and civilization; Minnesota acting as the proscenium of the Amazonian main stage, where any human lives can be mastigated in an instance by other humans, and it's not always the locals setting the stage for the dramatic, musical and emotional elements in this opera of the wild ...Medical research, moral highs and lows, professional envy, and riches hidden away in the jungle, are the main elements in this story.
After a colleague of Marina's named Anders Eckman dies there, Marina is sent by her boss and lover, Jim Fox, to both discover the exact cause of Eckman's death and oversee the progress of brilliant Dr. Annick Swenson, who is studying the indigenous Lakashi people so that a drug permitting lifelong fertility in females can be forged.
One found phenomenon unexpectedly turns out to be an alternative Dr. Marina Singh-the scant resources and dire situations that the Amazon present cause our main character to perform previously unthinkable actions.
For years, Vogel has been funding a research project in the Amazon, led by Singh's former med school teacher, the formidable Dr. Swenson.
In fact, considering my experience with Ann Patchett's novels (the other one I've read, Bel Canto has similar leaps in plausibility and realism), I think her books can be enjoyed much more if you think of them as taking place, not in the real world, but in an alternate universe that is similar to ours, but just different enough to allow the stories she tells to happen.
Yet, Its a good thing I'm writing this review 'now' --because the more I think about the details of the 'entire' story iself, my review could get get lower and lower.
Have you ever read a book that you loved 'while' reading it...yet, the more you started thinking about the absurdity of the storyline....you found yourself laughing?
Am I the only reader who finds something strange here?Marina Singh is sent to the Amazon to 'find' her work partner (we are told has died) --to find out where his body is.
And...I still liked this book....(but I gotta tell you --it had tons of problems)....lol but then heck, so do I, and most of my friends.
If it is, it's because I expect -- perhaps unfairly -- more of Patchett than this book has offered.In State of Wonder, the main character, Marina Singh, is a Minnesotan doctor whose office/lab-mate, Anders Eckman, has died in the Amazonian jungle of Brazil while on assignment for the pharmaceutical company for which they both work.
That book's ending was almost criminally neat, in some ways, but it was also proof that Patchett knew she would often have to kill her darling characters to create a sense of consequence similar to reality.In this book, as in her last, Patchett's ability to imagine a difficult situation is still firmly in place, firmly wonderful, but her reliance on created coincidence makes the books much more difficult to believe.
STATE OF WONDERAnne PatchettThis marvelous atmospheric and multi layered novel takes place in the Amazon jungle where an emissary from a pharmaceutical company dies under mysterious circumstances at a research facility.Dr. Marina Singh is sent to find the remains and effects, but must first locate the famous and reclusive gynecologist, Dr. Swenson who is in charge of the research.
Dr. Swenson is researching the women of a local tribe who can conceive well past middle age, and other secret remedies.
Patchett brings the Amazon to life in this novel.
Yet it's also home to tribes of natives who live with and from the jungle.
That is the beginning of the story and the basis on which the protagonist, Dr. Marina Singh, travels to Brazil to track what happened to a co-worker who also went there seeking answers for their employer, a pharmaceutical company.Once Marina reaches Brazil, life changes, all is reduced to managing within the confines of the weather.
Once she finds Dr Swenson, head of the field study, life becomes the weather, the jungle, the science and the natives place in it all.This is my first foray into Patchett's works.
I really need to read more.
Just read the book.Highly recommended.
My all-encompassing love for Ann Patchett is not a secret. She is my absolute favorite living author and I own every single one of her books. (Side note: remember that time she came to Chattanooga and I couldn't afford to go to the signing - still bitter about that). I've been anxiously waiting on the release State of Wonder for a while now, so when TLC gave me the opportunity to review, you know I was all over it. The day it came in the mail I called Luke at work because I was so excited. And w
The book is fascinating and engrossing and below I will tell you all of the reasons why you ought to go find a copy of this book and start reading now.WritingThis novel is no Bel Canto.
It's one of Patchett's strengths, I think, that she can craft a beautiful story that is so completely different from everything else she's written.
I would go as far as to say that the jungle itself is a character in the book and the way Patchett weaves it into every part of the story is engrossing.
It's fashionable to write books about people who are bored with life, which can make for very boring reading.
She rarely recommends books and even more rarely asks me to let her know when I've finished so we can discuss it.
And I guess for me it falls into those categories of books I sometimes describe as "writers workshop-y" where the author's hand of god is felt forcefully through out the pages with heavy, purposeful plotting, archetypal characters who speak in pronouncements and orations instead of conversations.
Why did the author chose to make those choices for the characters and what are we, the reader, supposed to take away from it?This book is still a 3 because it was deftly written and, at times, engaging.
I loved Bel Canto, it was in the running for my best 2017 book, so started reading this wary that it couldn't possibly be as good. WRONG! Fabulous story, memorable characters, I was sweating bullets with them in the smothering jungle - my skin prickled with unknown insects. But mainly it's Patchett's lush, beautiful writing that won't make me as nervous to pick up her next work.
omg. Fantastic book! Goes on my favorites list and is in fact one of my all-time favorites!
Ironically this time it was a book club selection that I chose.
I was curious whether I would think it was as horrible the second time around.
She is also tasked with lighting a fire under the head researcher Dr. Swenson who at the age of 73 is pregnant and has been dragging her feet for years while Mr. Fox continues to pay for her "research" without any results whatsoever.
I just shook my head at the waste of paper and my time.
The only good thing is that it was a library book so I didn't waste my money on this one.
Most definitely my favorite Patchett book. Such an adventure, interesting and complex characters; and throughout the jungle scenes I found myself thinking of Barbara Kingsolver and the many wonders she has created for us on the pages of her books. I had imagined so many horrible endings from other reviews I read, but nothing like what played out here. The "rushed" conclusion seemed fitting to me, to match the emotions and actions that developed. I know that down the road this story will come back to me anytime the Amazon is mentioned.
I really liked this story a lot, but at times found myself getting bored.
It might also be unfair, as I have been reading some very provocative writing styles.
This is a story of a secret lab in the Amazon who's researchers have discovered a tribe who have amazing abilities.
A fellow researcher from the funding company who goes to the Amazon to investigate the death, while having a secret agenda to discover how far along the research has progressed.
This same researcher being in love with the CEO of the company.
Patchett's writing of the Amazon itself is superb.
I can only give this book 2 stars because the whole thing was so silly.
Even crazier, when they finally do decide they want to find out what she is up to, who do they send to find her deep in the Amazon?
An employee who works in a lab in Minnesota who has never been out of the country.
His lab partner!
Were those just thrown in there to show that there are bigger things going on than this dumb plot?
It didn't come across as believable at all and seemed completely unnecessary to the plot.
I probably would not recommend this book to anyone.
Somewhere in the wilds of Brazil is Dr. Annick Swenson, researching a fertility drug and refusing to tell even the head of the drug company who is bankrolling her where she is.
By the time Marina arrives in Brazil, I am having flashbacks to Heart of Darkness; by the time she makes her way into the jungle, I am having flashbacks to Medicine Man. I was a bit disappointed with the ending.
I immediately started writing the next scene in my mind when the book came to its end, and that scene would make Swenson prescient.I like Patchett.
