https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181422.A_Daughter_of_Han

This story of a Chinese working woman as told by the woman herself is an excellent example of such a narrative, a great and sweeping social history of China's working majority.
This is social history at its finest—or perhaps, since it was first published in the '30s, a proto-social history that served as a crucial model for every social historian that followed."Daughter of Han" is an intimate portrait, not only of a woman's long, rich life and experiences, but also a rare glimpse of a late Imperial China in the throes of dynastic decline, foreign aggression, and, eventually, revolutionary social and political change.
I found this as a really unique view into the life of a woman living through WWI and the beginnings of WWII in China. I knew little about the cultural history of this part of the world, so I learned a lot about the effects of foot binding, the introduction of Opium into their society, and the Japanese Occupation.
half way through and couldn't finish. way too old, this lady is just babbling and if there was a plot i couldn't follow it.
A great biography that allows readers to see China from the perspective of a poor Chinese woman from 1867 to 1938.
Indeed a period piece of Chinese history. A hardship and struggle of a mother to provide for her children.
This book was fantastic. I couldn't put it down. It was nice reading about a China no one in our lifetime got to see.
This book is a fascinating look into the life of poor/working-class Chinese in the late 1800s and early 1900s.
Here's a funny/interesting passage from the book:"The first time I saw a foreigner I was very small, perhaps six or seven.
I was so frightened that I fell to the ground and hid my face in my arms.
I crouched and dared not look up until they told me he had gone.
Foreigners were strange in their appearance, with clothes that looked like nothing under the heavens.
But I think what frightened me most were the eyes, so far back and sunken into the face." - chapter 2
Read for a class on East Asian history that I audited at PSU during Spring Quarter. Book was a bit of a snooze, but I did learn quite a bit from the class.
Reminiscences of a spirited good woman. Does prattle on quite a bit, but held my interest enough to finish.
I have always regretted we never invited Ida to our house, and I don't know if I saw her again; if so, it would have been at some informal drinks party at Ricketts'.I bleed for this woman [Ning Lao Tai-tai] and her children for the life-long consequences of being so poorly raised.
She and her family could have used some good family therapists.Apparently Lao Tai-tai was an entertaining talker and sociable person, seeing how valued she seemed to be as a servant in so many households [mostly Chinese, but also missionary ones, mostly American or English].
I had to read this book as part of my history course in East Asia and quite frankly I really did not enjoy it. I found that it was not truly insightful for the period it discussed and I found her story quite annoying at times. I just was not invested and could not sympathise with her.
The mood of this book is very much someone reading it to you, very similar to an oral story written down.
There are places where she jumps from topic to topic very quickly, but for the most part it is structured in major events such as her wedding or her moving towns.One thing about this book is that you need to read it with an open mind.
If you begin to read it without trying to place yourself in the mind of a Chinese women from those times there is a strong chance to be offended in some aspects.
An "autobiography" - this is the story of Ning L.
T'Ai-T'ai told by Ida Pruitt as she heard her story over several meetings.
Ning lived in the last days of China's Qing dynasty.
Not really poor, not rich, Ning is an outlier of her time - a working class woman and a true revolutionary (though she would have never seen herself this way, I'm sure).
This is an amazing story of female empowerment; though take note: you will get more use/enjoyment out of this story if you have some knowledge of China's history (Qing dynasty).
This book is a very interesting look into the life of a woman in China at the turn of the century. If you are interested in Chinese history, especially from a female perspective, I definitely recommend this book. However, I didn't like the writing style. The author seems to have copied straight down what the woman told her. I think it could have used some editing and rearranging since the style was very anecdotal. This made it difficult to figure out times and dates, since she seemed to be jumping around a little.
The narrative makes a lot more sense if you are familiar with the geography of where Ning lives and what is happening in China during this period. Ning grew up on a coastal town of China, in the age where foreigners (missionaries and some traders) were common sights. Most important, this really illustrates the debilitating impact opium addiction had on many families. The tale ends with Japanese bombing in the early 1900's.
This autobiography gives more than a few insights into the life of a woman struggling to survive in a culture that is not accepting of opinions that vary from those of the government. She struggles, not because of who she is, but because of the people she chooses to associate with. I enjoyed stepping into the mind of this corageous woman and watching her slow ascension up the bittersweet mountain of triumph.
This book is better understood with knowledge of Chinese culture, otherwise it would not make for an interesting read. Also,it is a period piece and the whole of Chinese culture should not be based off of a single woman's story. I have read this book twice and found myself polarized by the poverty and strength of Nang each time.
In my quest for more information on China, I read this autobiography. It was dictated by a Chinese woman to the wife of a preacher. It offers a lot of insight into daily life of the Chinese during the latter part of the 19th century, and illuminates some of the aftershocks of globalization.
One of those books that's alright, and then every now and again skims a passage of pure gold across placid surface of words. Overall ok, but an extremely fast read that gives insight from an average person's point of view during the era
"We women knew nothing but to comb our hair and bind our feet and wait at home for our men." Excellent autobiography of Chinese peasant woman Lao T'ai-t'ai who lived during the transition from the Qing Dynasty into the Republic of China.
As literature, it's really dry. This is more like a history book on a very micro level. So you get a lot of good insights into late Qing Dynasty/Warlord Era/early modernizing China. But it isn't so great to read as a narrative
Some ethnocentrism comes from this autobiography of a late nineteenth century working Chinese woman, including her marriage, troubles and hopes. Not only a good read for someone interested in the period itself, but for those looking for primary sources related to feminism or gender studies.
Super interesting
A good one for understanding Chinese culture and also the bonds between women in that culture.
Fascinating look into Chinese culture from a woman's perspective.
this book started out pretty good... a lot of interesting stories that really grabbed you in... but towards the end it got pretty dry and boring (i actually didn't even read the last like 20 pages)
It's not often that you view the life and times of the 'small' people. This was a great look at life and times. It is extremely tough to get a book out of the East Asian powers that is true to form.
Good, if you're looking for a book describing the daily life of regular folk.Similar feel to The Good Earth.
This is an incredible book
