https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54072.The_Fencing_Master
Into this quiet decline comes the unexpected appearance of a beautiful and mysterious woman, Adela de Otero, a veritable whirlwind of transformation whose request to learn from him the deadly "two hundred escudo thrust" plunges the hapless fencing master into a world of danger and intrigue quite at variance with his expectations for his sunset years, though not, perhaps, wholly against his secret wishes.The political turmoil and colour of 19th century Madrid is brought to vivid life by Perez-Reverte and Don Jaime's position as a virtual outsider within his own society make him an excellent viewpoint character for the reader.
I saw movie Scaramouche (1952), and how the protagonist defeated the antagonist by seeking fencing lessons from more senior fencing master.
On this book, the main character is a senior fencing master, so seeing the story from a master of fencing POV is interesting.I was considering to rate this book between 3 or 4 star.
The setting of the novel was at the dusk time of fencing as way for honor bound fighting, or self defence.
This kind of setting usually makes me uncomfortably nervous due to my experience reading wuxia with the similar era.
Μοναδικός του σκοπός πια στην δύση της ζωής του είναι να ολοκληρώσει την συγγραφή μιας μεθόδου διδασκαλίας της τέχνης του ξίφους παρακαταθήκη για όλους τους νεαρούς και επίδοξους ξιφομάχους και λάτρεις των παραδόσεων.Ο δάσκαλος όμως θα δεχτεί μια μέρα την επίσκεψη μιας μυστηριώδους γυναίκας η οποία θα απαιτήσει να μάθει μια μοναδική τεχνική , την οποία γνωρίζει μόνο ο Χάιμε και μόνο αυτός μπορεί να την διδάσκει.
Η λύση του μυστηρίου δεν είναι τόσο αναπάντεχη, όμως οι κινήσεις του Δασκάλου θυμίζουν αγώνα ξιφασκίας, ουσιαστικά την τακτική της τελευταίας κρίσιμης μάχη που θα δώσει στην ζωή του… Για ακόμη μια φορά το μεγάλο πλεονέκτημα του βιβλίου είναι η γραφή του Ρεβέρτε.
Yes, the initial 75 or so pages left me wondering if fencing was going to be the sum total of the novel.
And that is why gods and heroes are always, inevitably, succeeded by mediocrity, cowards, and imbeciles.This is a very plot driven novel.
True, I was reading a translation, but I think a translator rarely makes a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Surprisingly in a plot-driven novel was the very good characterization of the title character.
The novel is told in third-person limited and so we come to know him intimately.
Some people are no doubt like Don Jaime, only interested in perserving certain values.”I have spent my whole life trying to preserve a certain idea of myself, and that is all.
The whole mystery is like a duel with an enemy, and in the end, what could be better than the story getting summarized by a concrete one?Spoilers!Don Jaime thinks that a duel is an honorable way to die, but not in his own house, with a button on the tip of his foil, and with a woman as an opponent.
"The Fencing Master" by Arturo Perez-Reverte is a throwback to another time...
in fact, even within the 1868 time setting of the story, the protagonist (a fencing master, go figure) is a throwback to another time, an era of pure honor and purer scruples.
Of course, such an era has never existed, but within any moment there exist those Quixotic souls who live as if one might transcend the hungry groveling of politics, economics and sexuality.Such behavior may be fantasy, but in my opinion so are most poetic and religious concepts.
Narrada con una prosa exquisita, su interés quizás radique más en la descripción del Madrid de los años de Isabel II, justo antes de “La Gloriosa Revolución”, en el personaje central de Jaime Astarloa, verdadero antecedente de su celebérrimo “Alatriste”, y a las tertulias a las que asiste, aunque sea como convidado de piedra.
Porque la trama en sí misma no es de lo mejor del autor, que a veces abruma con sus descripciones de la técnica del florete.
Se nota que el autor conoce y admira a Pérez Galdós, en el que sin duda se habrá inspirado.
Caro Arturo, questo tuo libro mi era rimasto indietro della felice stagione in cui ti amai.
E' un onesto libro di avventure che però non fa di te il più grande scrittore vivente di Spagna (ma il più bello, sì), che un tempo pensavo tu fossi, e che tu ancora credi di essere .Nella tua adorabile sbruffonaggine (personale e scrittoria) mi ricordi un altro antico amore: Alexandre Dumas.
Ci vediamo sul prossimo Alatriste (se smetterai di inseguire il tuo libro 'definitivo').
Ps. Ascolta una fedele lettrice: la tua misura non deve superare le 300 pagine; solo lì puoi dare il meglio di te
Adela de Otero irrompe nella vita tranquilla di Jaime Astarloa, maestro di scherma, come il sorgere di una sfolgorante giornata estiva in pieno autunno.
Il perché della richiesta di lezioni è chiarito fin da subito: in cambio di un compenso esorbitante, la bella e misteriosa Adela vuole essere messa a conoscenza del segreto di una stoccata vincente, potenzialmente letale in un eventuale duello, conosciuta da meno di una decina di schermidori.Astarloa è infastidito dal fascino della ragazza; solo il concreto timore di rendersi ridicolo lo trattiene dal seguire i suoi impulsi naturali.
Ahora entiendo de forma diferente la trama, pero me sigue gustando igual que siempre.Leí este libro hace años, nuevamente, para una clase y aunque no me acuerdo de absolutamente todos los detalles del libro, recuerdo muy bien la línea principal de la historia y sobre todo, recuerdo lo que me hizo sentir y por eso está entre mis favoritos.
Porque los personajes son calcados a los de otras mil narraciones: el protagonista quijotesco y obsesionado con el honor y demás paparruchas revertianas (el maestro de esgrima es el primero de los Alatristes de Pérez-Reverte, un hombre que vive en una época que le ha sobrepasado porque sus creencias están anticuadas), una "femme fatale" que es tan guapa como mala (tipo Milady De Winter, que se me viene a la cabeza ahora, aunque luego hubo una Angélica de Alquézar...De los libros de Alatriste), un "bon vivant" que sólo vive para las mujeres y el juego (habrá miles como él, imaginen el que quieran)...Lo único que salva al libro de la mediocridad absoluta es la fantástica documentación (aunque no pasaría nada por encontrar algún García, González o Fernández entre los múltiples personajes que aparecen, porque todos tienen apellidos no excesivamente comunes), y que se lee fácil, porque el resto es de lo más prescindible.
Porque la esgrima es un arte de elite, complejo, difícil y para el cual se necesitan años de práctica para convertirse en un luchador consumado; las armas de fuego, en cambio, hacen iguales a los hombres, porque hasta el más debilucho de los pusilánimes se convierte en un adversario de temer cuando tiene un revólver en la mano.La contraparte de Astarloa está en la misteriosa Adela de Otero, una joven y atractiva esgrimista de ojos violeta que remueve el amargo y solitario corazón de Astarloa y lo arrastra a una sórdida historia de engaños, asesinatos y conspiraciones.Astarloa recuerda mucho al capitán Alatriste, quizás por ese aire de decadencia, ese honor extraño y ese aferrarse a costumbres e ideas que a veces no sólo son de otro tiempo, sino de otro planeta.
With modern weapons like the pistol gaining popularity, there is little interest in fencing, but Don Jaime is able to eke out a meager living teaching his art to the sons of the aristocracy.
Before he knows it, he finds himself in over his head, unwittingly embroiled in a political intrigue with potentially dire consequences.After reading and thoroughly enjoying The Flanders Panel, I was expecting a lot from this book, and ended up feeling kind of let down.
The Big Important Political Secret ended up being sort of anticlimactic, and while the final battle between Don Jaime and the villain was exciting, it felt like the climax of the story was rather rushed.
Σταμάτα να διαβάζεις αυτή την κριτική και πήγαινε να διαβάσεις αυτό το βιβλίο. ΤΩΡΑ.
I might recommend it for a young adult who likes adventure stories.
I just felt like it gave into stereotypes and predictability a little too much.
It just made me roll my eyes a little.
Come on, Arturo, you're better at putting together plot threads than this.However: The mystery is good, the suspense is there, the dark writing is spooky and appropriate.
It's a very quick, fun, easy read.
And I still liked it, I would just read all the other ones by him first because they're that much better.
A fairly good book. The story developed slowly but eventually picked up. The book tells tge story of a fencing master Don Jamie, one of the few, living in the civil war period. He is approached by a young seniorita, with in depth knowledge on the art of fencing. He reluctantly accepts her as her student. Soon after, another client of his is murdered. The Marquis, Don Luis, who dies just after becoming intimate with the seniorita. Other murders follow soon. Who is killing all these people? This is what this book is about.
Adela de Otero está a la altura de Irene Adler y de Milady de Winter. Es más, yo diría que las supera, porque no duda en hacer las cosas por si misma, a parte de manipular a los demás
Set against the backdrop of the 1868 Spanish Revolution, Perez-Reverte gives us an extremely sympathetic main character in Don Jaime Astarloa, an aging fencing master who is witnessing the demise of not only his profession but his code of ethics as well.
Even though one of these characters plays prominently later in the story, the numerous scenes with this handful of eccentrics merely drag the plot unnecessarily.Nonetheless, this one minor complaint is nothing compared to the loosely pulled together ending of The Club Dumas, giving The Fencing Master a far more entertaining aftertaste.
I will gladly admit to punching the air with a triumphant whoop when that happened ;) (hide spoiler)] The glimpses into the maestro's past were far more interesting to me than the action happening in "the present" and honestly THAT'S the book I'd like to read :POverall, this book was a chore to get through, but I powered through it because it was short and occasionally had glimmers of hope in the pretty prose and the main character, but these were well overshadowed by the many problems with the plot and other characters.
Il maestro di scherma è il primo libro che leggo di Arturo Perez-Reverte.Sullo sfondo di una Spagna agitata da congiure e intrighi, l’autore ci racconta una storia tinta di giallo e di sangue, di velata seduzione e di passioni; la lettura è scorrevole, la trama, non impeccabile, presenta una dose di suspence minima ma apprezzabile e riserva comunque qualche sorpresa nel finale. I protagonisti sono ben delineati e spiccano per il carattere forte e d’altri tempi!Un libro piacevole, da consigliare agli amanti del genere cappa e spada. Come dice il maestro Jaime Astarloa:“A Voi” !
Spanish Swordsman Saves Self, Skewers SexpotAscetic and as otherwordly as Zatoichi or a samurai played by Mifune Toshiro, Don Jaime Astarloa inhabits a narrow world of fencing and honor, remote from the corrupt, crumbling society of 1860s Spain around him.
The plot takes a few twists and turns before the final denouement, which of course is a duel.The book is populated by a set of believable characters in 19th century Madrid, living in a well-described atmosphere of plot, rumors of coups and coups as Spain tried to shrug off its age-old absolute monarchy and strong man rule to emerge into the age of democracy that was sweeping the rest of Europe.
Pero tiene un deje chapado a la antigua que muchas veces roza el machismo, cuando no el despotismo.Sus novelas, por supuesto, son reflejo del autor, por lo que los protagonistas son, en su mayoría, masculinos, procedentes de un tiempo anterior (escribe novela histórica principalmente), con unos ideales y valores superiores.
Sobre todo hay que destacar lo bien descrita y planteada que resulta la trama, es uno de los puntos fuertes del autor, junto con su estupenda ambientación de la época.
Pérez-Reverte rememora lo antiguo, lo tradicional y lo olvidado, partiendo de valores como el honor y la honestidad para narrar la historia de Jaime y su enredo con Adela, quien va tejiendo una telaraña de hechos entre estocadas y peleas, que transforman al esgrima en una forma de entender la vida.
En consecuencia, este le ha dado sus principios de vida, a los que se mantiene fiel.Tomando esto como base, el personaje parece ser anacrónico, pues da la sensación, gracias a su estética, indumentaria y costumbres de haberse detenido en el tiempo.
Esto creo que es una constante en los libros de Pérez-Reverte (no olvidemos su pasado periodístico) y se me viene a la mente, por ejemplo, "La tabla de Flandes", donde siempre habla de ajedrez en términos bastante técnicos.
Esto me ha gustado.Lo malo:- El estilo elegido por el autor se me ha hecho a veces difícil de leer y no me refiero a los términos técnicos de la esgrima (cosa que me ha gustado) sino a la retórica, a la forma de decir algo de una manera complicada y eligiendo palabras muy rebuscadas.
From the history of the antiquated sport in Spain to its development into the Italian, French, and German schools of fencing, from the classical to modern styles, from the most sophisticated positions to the times most opportune in parrying, the behind-the-scenes glimpse was truly remarkable.
Now middle-aged, he has accepted his fate as a lonely but satisfied man, having worked his way up in his career, coming from nothing but paying his dues to be taught by the greatest fencing master in his days; in his personal life, he left everything he knew in Paris over a broken heart- the only woman he ever loved.
In the place where it all began- where Don Jaime provided his lessons to the beautiful, seductive, murdering, lying Señora Adela de Otero.
Šīs grāmatas latvisko tulkojumu "Paukošanas skolotājs" atradu savā grāmatplauktā, Alīna pirms gadiem esot nopirkusi par latu.
Beidzot kāda īsta grāmata pēc ilga pārtraukuma, kurā lasīju tikai e-grāmatas savā Kindles lietotnē.Sākumā grāmata likās ne pārāk interesanta.
Tomēr ar katru nākamo nodaļu stāsts kļuva interesantāks, līdz viss savijās kopā neparedzamā nobeigumā.
Patiesībā ļoti interesanta grāmata, ja tagad jāvērtē retrospektīvā.Kaut kādā ziņā man šī grāmata likās līdzīga Paskāla Mersjē grāmatai "Nakts vilciens uz Lisabonu".
Ja tā padomā, nekā diži kopīga gan nav, ja runājam par sižetu.
Tomēr galvenie varoņi pēc sava rakstura varētu būt radinieki..
I enjoyed this, but I've never been terribly huge on long discourses on politics and the first half of this book really suffers from the characters discussing politics...a lot.
Don Jaime was an interesting character to follow as he tried to discover the truth behind the conspiracy.
The mystery was pretty easy to solve, but even though I figured out how it would end early on I still did enjoy the actual process of the characters discovering it on their own.
Não considero que seja uma obra brilhante - apesar de ser ela a responsável pela carreira internacional de Pérez-Reverte, segundo a contracapa do livro - mas também não é propriamente uma história de deitar fora.
Peca apenas em dois aspectos: em primeiro lugar o contexto histórico poderá não ser muito confortável, em particular para o público fora de Espanha; em segundo, algum jargão do esgrima obscurece as descrições de combate que o autor tece ao longo do livro - eu não faço a mínima ideia do que é uma "estocada em terceira" e um "contra-ataque de quarta" -.
I read this book in Spanish.
This is the fourth Perez Reverte book I've read and once again he doesn't dissapoint.
His writing is more in line with English/American authors than with traditional Spanish ones.
In this book the author is more instrospective and develops the character of the protagonist in precise detail.
A lot of historical references regarding Spain can make it a little confusing if you do wish to keep track of all of it, but if you don't, it moves along quite well.
The book has very little dialogue and you get to live the journey through the protagonist eyes.
Perhaps if I knew more about Spanish history in the mid to late 1800s, I would not have had to read so slowly to figure out who was doing what.
However, not being interested in the details of fencing, I skipped over the many descriptions of the techniques.
Also, I felt that only the characters of Don Jaime and Adela de Otero were developed enough to come alive.
However, I was totally confused by the fencing master's friends at the cafe.
Turns out it was very important that readers know more about their character - especially one.
Don't recall where I read rave reviews of this slight novel.
