https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/939740.The_Integral_Trees
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
? The concept may have seemed strange and original back in ’85, but to the mind of this genre-burnt geek, familiar with the works it (presumably) helped inspire, it felt comfortable, cosy and tame.There’s a gas ring around a neutron star full of free-fall life forms, with stranded humans living a floating Peter-Pan hunter-gatherer lifestyle amid the alien eco-system with their cultural memories of civilised planets little more than myths of legends...
It’s a story about gradually broadening horizons: our little tribe of survivors live in/on/around a zero-g space tree.
Integrating the trees f(z) around the Smoke Ring C, we haveThe rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Although Niven's concept of a ringworld is better-known and more portable than the Gas Torus and Smoke Ring of this novel, the latter environment results in far weirder inhabitants and habitations.
And since The Integral Trees is a survival story….There are some brilliant things about this book, not the least of which is its superiority to Ringworld when it comes to worldbuilding.
I remember this book as a book about "space fairies." Humans live in this weird alien fairy type planet where they mutate into flying fairy-like creatures due to the low gravity environment.
Well......I guess this book was sort of like that, if you squint your eyes and cross them as you read it.
I'm not sure how I managed to forget how much real hard science is in this novel.
In reality, this novel is an intricately built world with plausible mutations based on the science of low gravity living.
I must say I am looking forward to re-reading the third and last book in this series.
I wish I could give this negative stars. Good ideas embedded in sickening sexism and mediocre writing. I couldn't get past the first few chapters.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 4/5Larry Niven is one of those grand masters of science fiction.
This is only my seventh Niven book (thus I've not even read 8% of his works), but I haven't loved any of them.
The Integral Trees continues to confirm my estimation of Niven: talented with background ideas, awful with characters, poor with clarity, below average with plotting, and obsessed with sex.
The world and its physical properties, the hard science behind it, all were delightful to imagine.
Niven is very poor with descriptions and depth of his world.
Let me see if I can lay it out: a gas giant planet is orbiting a collapsed star a billion years after a supernova; the collapsed star is one of a binary with a normal star like the Sun. The gas giant's atmosphere has been slowly leaking away into orbit around the collapsed star, forming a ring of atmosphere through which the core of the planet orbits.
The plot does a nice job of revealing a lot of well-thought-out ramifications of this world -- various flora and fauna, various ways human tribes have adapted.The writing is maybe a little better than what you'd expect from something like this written in 1980 or so.
The characters are interesting but not fantastic, certainly far less fantastic than the setting.
The human colonists--who have, by the way, lost much of their technology and are only vaguely familiar with their offworld origins--live on the giant integral trees (so named because they look like integration signs) where tidal effects give them some gravity.So it's a weird setting.
The plot is kind of forgettable, except that it gives the characters plenty of opportunity to move around the world, seeing all the weird stuff in the environment.
It's kind of like Ringworld in that way.
The plot isn't what you show up for; it's the setting.
During a particularly lean time, a small group is sent out to search for additional resources, and then an environmental disaster strikes...By this point in their history, the tree people have lost most of their technology, and scientific knowledge is limited, so (like Anne McCaffrey's Pern novels) this is a science fiction adventure that feels a lot like fantasy most of the time.
Still, there is plenty of hard science used to describe their strange environment and how it works, so it may satisfy both camps.Characterization is not the novel's strong point.
Those ideas are interesting enough that I may read the sequel at some point.
The Integral Trees is a precursor to Karl Schroeder's Virga series, and the spiritual and intellectual forefather of Niven's magnum opus, Ringworld.
It shares that sense of a vast, fantastical yet possible, limitless world where anything can happen...
and populated with people very strongly reminiscent of JM Barrie's Lost Boys, or Brian Aldiss' Starship crew.
It's a story we've read a thousand times before in some form or another...
but what really stands out, what brings the magic, is the world it happens in.
Its a world without gravity, and a story of what our fables would be...
This tale of a planet in which there is no gravity and people live in "integral trees" or "jungle clouds" consists of the very definition of very rich, hard scifi world building. Unfortunately the characterization is weak, and there is a distinct sense that the mistreatment of women depicted in the book is viewed by the author as an ideal and not something to critique. Recommended to fans of hard scifi for the rich world it builds.Check out my full review.
A planet without ground, where the inhabitants are ruled by the whims of tide and wind. Not sure which is most fascinating: the unique setting, or the awkward delivery of the most mechanized sex scenes ever. Way to keep it systematic, Hard SF.
Brilliant and original worldbuilding compensates for weak characters and prose that,while servicable,lacks certain flair. Niven was a writer of awesome ideas.He was,and always will be one of sf masters.
interesting. not great but interesting.
Een avontuurlijk boek, boordevol aktie en spanning.
Ik merkte wel dat het zeker nuttig is om het eerste boek van de reeks gelezen te hebben om alles goed te kunnen volgen.Larry Niven slaagt er erg goet in om de praktische moeilijkheden die gepaard gaan met het leven in de integraalbomen te schetsen en daarop aansluitend de (ingenieuze) oplossingen die de bewoners er op gevonden hebben te tonen.
I listened to about five minutes. The narrator has an odd way of emphasizing everything. I could not transcend the reading style and wasn't particularly intrigued by the premise. I might try again later, but I find the casual sexism of books in this period off putting. In the precursor, which I haven't read, the "girls" are just vanished, eliminated from the society. Well, problem solved.
The Integral Trees is classic hard-science fiction, and one of Niven's best solo books outside of his Known Space series. The characters are uniquely interesting, and the description of the setting makes up for any shortness of the plot. It's a relatively short book, but the plot hinges on such complex concepts that the reader feels like they've conquered a physics text at the end. The Michael Whelan cover on the first edition is one of the best from Niven's books.
This was their universe.But slowly, they began the long climb from barbarism: and somewhere, beyond the Smoke Ring, the Discipline and its cyborg ‘adviser’ neared the end of its 500 year wait…’Blurb from the 1988 Orbit paperback editionLarry Niven’s enviable strength is that he takes a sound scientific premise and thinks it through with such rigour and thoroughness that he can extrapolate beautifully to its logical conclusion.The ideas in this novel are so extraordinary that one has to be grateful to the author for providing informative diagrams of the system in which this novel is set which for once are immensely helpful in understanding how it all fits together.Put simply, we have a neutron star which is orbiting a G1 star like our own sun.
In The Integral Trees, Larry Niven explores the possibilities of life in a gas torus.
The real story begins some five hundred years later and it is left to the reader to surmise that the investigation team found something in the torus that convinced them to abandon the mother ship and never go back.Quinn tribe is in trouble.
The group chosen by the tribe elders is not the usual mix for a hunting party.
In fact, the group is a subset of the tribe itself and is composed of members with knowledge relating to all aspects of living in the integral trees.
After conversations with friend, scientists and fellow SF writer Robert Forward, Niven came up with the "Smoke Ring", a gas torus between a dying gas giant and a neutron star.
Living in the eponymous trees of the Smoke Ring, which are shaped like a mathematical integral sign due to tidal effects, they have a low-tech existence and centuries of living in this low-gravity environment have given them great height and prehensile toes.
The protagonist, Gavving, and others of the Quinn Tribe are threatened by an environmental catastrophe: their tree is dying as the passing gas giant has pulled it out of the middle of the Smoke Ring towards the less fertile (and ultimately vacuum) edge.
Awesome setting - unique, intriguing and sets the stage for so much of the plot and characters. Rest of the book is average I guess, possibly since it was obviously written as part one of a series.
The life is not just the trees but native flora and fauna along with humans who arrived here centuries ago on seeder ships and have evolved to the conditions in the Smoke Ring.The story follows the travels of a small group from one of the tufts who move up the tree to find food and end up in a civil wars of sorts with a group up the tree and a group from another tree.
The female "lead" (I'm putting lead in quotes as all the women in this book are very clearly portrayed as pets whose only opinions are those of their men) joined a sort of nun warrior class at 14, because that was the only way to avoid being raped (a woman can either make babies or join this separate class- there are no other options).
She meets our group, and it is made clear that she can either "marry" one of two available men, or else the group will kill her.
Set in his "known space" universe. A fantastic series by one of the master writer's of SiFi. Very interesting colonization story. Very recommended
Kinda OK - great ideas (AI-driven seedship loses human cargo for generations) marred by an obtuse (if scientifically-rich) setting and generally unlikeable and paper-thin characters.
It had better characters and the Ringworld was more interesting to me than the Smoke Ring.
But The Integral Trees had more of a story to latch onto.
None of these problems were deal breakers, and, again, I did enjoy it, but I felt it could have been better.
Honestly, this is the way I've felt about the few other books by Niven I've read before.
I guess you don't read his books for story, but for his amazing worlds and concepts.
And the world and concepts in The Integral Trees were interesting enough that I've already started its sequel, The Smoke Ring.
Larry Niven does good science fiction.Amazing, simply stunning world building, every aspect of the world thoroughly thought out, starting from a single leaf, foliage and feeding the tree. White boy savior and male gaze aside, we have several strong female characters and even a few nicely feminist plot points, so hurray for that. The writing though... average, putting it mildly.Fans of hard scifi would relish, but I must confess, I struggled a bit. I want great world building and good writing too. But, I shall persevere.
As a student of science and physics in general, there were things about this that bothered me. The story was good overall. I would definitely recommend it, however if you have a background in science or are just a layman who read a lot of physics books or watches a lot of space/physics documentaries, things will bother you.
Though listed here as the second in a series, this book is more it's own book.Colonists living in a donut-shaped atmosphere trapped around suns, with "trees" orbiting in the atmosphere. It's a neat idea, with well considered life forms. Story was interesting, but follow up in the second book that finishes up some of the plot introduced here fell more flat.
Too many underdeveloped characters...I found it really hard to care when something bad or frightening was happening to them. Also, I have a feeling that some important plot points were just forgotten in the middle of the story, and never mentioned again until the end.
