https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412816.Restoree
I read this mostly as a historical analysis of science-fiction as it was the first book published by Anne McCaffrey in 1967.
(She has said that she wrote it in response to the misogynistic tropes of 1960s science-fiction where women were helpless addendums to the male-driven plot.) Reading it almost 50 years later), the actions of the female protagonist are still completely dictated by the alien men in the story.
This book still stands up today!
I first read this as a teenager in the '80's.
Fun to reread something I enjoyed as a kid and enjoyed it just as much as an adult.
I haven't read Ms. McCaffrey in a long time but she used to be one of my top 10 authors.
It's too bad it's so hard to find books like this today.
This is one of those books that needs to be "rediscovered" by readers everywhere; along with Tarzan, and the Mars series.
They stand the test of time and are good, clean, and fun crowd pleasers.
This will be my 3rd go around of this book.
It has been several years since I last read it and from what I remember, I really liked it.
We'll see if my tastes have changed.Update --- Just finished reading and I still love this book.
I've often wished that Anne would have written a sequel or at least continued on for a few more chapters.
Granted there are a few corny lines and at times I found myself skipping a few paragraphs because there was too much description on the scenery (which often bores me) but overall it's a good story with action and romance.
But Sara is ignorant of a lot of Lotharian custom, history and geography so there is some tension about whether or not she will reveal herself at the wrong time, increasing as she gets ever more entangled in the politics of the planet while she tries to reveal the plot against Harlan and re-instate him as Regent.I think the main issue I had with Restoree is that it's kind of directionless, and for a short, 250 page book, it really wanders and meanders and takes forever getting to the stuff that really matters to the reader.
After the horrors of a human abattoir, she comes gradually to her senses to find herself playing nurse to a non-responsive patient, on a different planet, with a new face.
The romance itself is not too bad - a little overly quick to establish, but at least based on admiration for bravery and action (as well as the pretty face Sara now possesses).
Sadly, Sara gets less and less opportunity to exhibit bravery or action as the book moves on, and does a lot of wailing and being afraid.
The over-the-top horror toward restorees (of a kill-nearly-on-sight variety) also doesn't make a huge amount of sense.
I loved this book so much I stole it from my college roommate.
I reasoned that she didn't love it as much as I did (she really didn't) and she'd probably just throw it away or leave it behind at the end of the semester anyway, so...I borrowed it and never returned it.
She turned into a colossal jerk and our friendship ended.
But my love for the book remains!
This is one of the coolest books I've ever read.
I used to read it about once a year, but I haven't done that in a while.
It's still an entertaining read though.
I came up with this longterm plan to read Anne McCaffrey's Pern series so willy nilly I started picking up her books in second hand shops.
The willy nilly aspect led to me buying more than a couple of books not in the Pern universe.
While it was sweet and Harlen sure was both manly and romantic in a nice "ugly" package, Sara's whole going from ugly duckling to golden skinned beauty queen with a perfect nose was a bit cheesy.
I don't know if the neanderthal look was considered hot back then but I definately had to make a serious effort to erase that image of Harlen in order to enjoy the story...
I read this several decades ago but remember little about it. Looking forward to reading this again.
About ten years ago I did read one of her non-science fiction/fantasy books, THE LADY, which I enjoyed.
For the first part of the book I was completely captivated as Sara becomes more aware of her surroundings and the man she is caring for, and then as she and Harlan escape from a sanitarium and travel to (relative) safety.
After that, some of the fascination wore off as Sara found herself involved in the politics surrounding Harlan.
I'm on a quest now to read all of Ms. McCaffrey's other books, preferably in publication order, which should probably take me about ten years or so!
I have read this book several times and I can't seem to get enough of it.
I don't know if that's true, but I like the fact that Sarah is a librarian and just happens to have the knowledge or skills needed by Harlan during their lucky escape.
When I need a shot of strength in the face of insurmountable odds, I bring out this book and know I can do anything as long as I have a good bit of patrol issue lol...it's a fun book that lightens the load a bit.
The edition I read was, I think, the first paperback edition. It was the first book I read by her & I'd call it a SF Romance. I really liked it, although it is kind of a hackneyed plot. Alien abduction & a Prince riding to the rescue. I can't really give it 4 stars, although I'd like to because of the place it holds in my reading - an early step to her work.
I can't believe this book was written in 1967 because except for a few small things it felt like a modern sci-fi book. I'm finally starting to read this author's books and loved this one. Seems like a precursor to modern sci-fi romance books.
Oh, and she’s pretty sure that the man she’s taking care of has been poisoned.Sara’s intuition is correct, and when she rescues her patient, she learns that his name is Harlan, and that he was Regent to a Warlord before his illness.
It’s technology is both ahead of and behind our own–the kind of society that’s got space travel but not paper.The relationship between Sara and Harlan is like something out of a vintage romance novel, except that Sara has skills and talents and is a competent human being.
That’s why it’s particularly noticeable that Harlan always takes the lead, to the point that aside from rescuing Harlan, Sara doesn’t take the initiative on anything for the rest of the book.
This book felt like the author wanted to write a really progressive female character but because it was 1967 she didn’t know how. The woman is capable of things but not AS capable as her male counterpart. She’s smart but not AS smart as her male counterparts. And thank god the aliens turned her beautiful! How else would she have gotten out of her boring virginal librarian life??Oh and she loves to eat. Hilarious.
Yes, she uses her wits to free Harlan from his drugs, she sails and runs with him, she provides valuable information and is a key part of the political manoeuvres that follow, but digging a little deeper, her character is an example of the very thing McCaffrey was trying to protest against and she does actually swoon quite a lot!
It's hard enough keeping track of our own earthly political and historical happenings in concert with all the mundane and more personal events, but McCaffrey just throws you completely in a another world, amid all the intrigues and suspense of a planet not our own.It can get to be too much sometimes, as she generally writes as though you should already be familiar with the world she creates -- details and description are kept to a minimum as the story carries you away.And that's pretty much how Restoree is.
As the book progresses, though, and Sara becomes more and more involved in the planet's political and military struggles, it feels more and more distant, more and more like a recital of events.And I was disappointed that the relationship between Sara and Harlan wasn't all that fully developed towards the end.
I remember being thrilled with this book when I first read it in the early 80s.
It was just a fun adventure, made hugely better due to a kick ass heroine.
Kick ass heroines were thin on the ground in all strains of fiction then, most particularly in SF.
So, this book felt revelatory with a woman at the center - and an intelligent, competent woman at that.Reading it again now, I became aware of two things.
I strongly suspect all of this makes this book a valuable historic document for future scholars who want to understand how feminism changed women's own perceptions.
To be fair this is one of Anne McCaffrey's earliest books and the the first page was superb and intriguing and showed much of the great talent she later developed.
One learned little about the protagonist’s character other than she seemed to be hungry all of the time which isn’t mush of a character trait when that’s partly because she voluntarily doesn’t eat for five days.
I voluntarily spent five days on and off forcing my way through this book that was probably an equally bad idea.
This was Anne McCaffrey's first book, and still in print after fifty years.
Much more romance novel in feel than something you find in the science fiction section (See, cover, at least in my edition, of woman held in man's arms.) Woman is abducted by aliens and finds herself in new body.
Woman meets alien.
Woman loves alien.
This is an old-fashioned romance, in ways I do find dated, even eye-rolling.
Just not as much as many of McCaffrey's other books, so don't start here.
When it came time to make room on my bookshelf, this didn't make the cut--others by McCaffrey did.
Una mujer que camina por Central Park sufre una extraña y desagradable experiencia que la mantiene en un estado de duermevela onírico.
Cuando despierta, está en otro lugar, otro planeta, en el que hay algún tipo de guerra y en el que se mantienen unas costumbres distintas y extrañas a las que nuestra protagonista debe acostumbrarse poco a poco, igual que a su nueva ocupación y, lo que es más importante, a los cambios físicos que ha sufrido y que han supuesto una mejora desde el punto de vista estético.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
I can't figure out how to review this book without spoiling the plot.
And nobody else in this society has ever before thought, "Geesh, maybe being captured and chopped apart by man-eating aliens Would be sorta traumatic -- ?And...
seriously, these separately-evolved-on-different-planets species of people are so similar they can't tell each other apart?
And the culture of this alien planet is practically European?
Allllllrighty then." To be fair, McCaffrey learned to make even ridiculous things sound a lot more plausible later in her writing career.
And the plot is rollicking, even if you do have to do a helluva lot of suspending disbelief ...
It is an excellent blend of science fiction and romance genres.
I liked the main characters and found the alien culture interesting and understandable as I was seeing it through Sara's eyes and she was from Earth.
Sure, but so am I.
I like "girl meets boy (alien), falls in love, lives happily ever after" types of romances.
And there are enough SF themes (alien abduction, alien culture) and suspense (will Sara be outed?, how will the political intrigue end?) to keep the novel truly interesting.If you like science fiction and romance novels, you should surely give this a whirl.
Good thing that kindle books do not show the cover to full effect.
I might not have read this book, and it would have been a pity.Even if clearly dated (the women portrayal is soo passé :), I read it easily and with gusto.
The world building is intense and is a pity it's not the beginning of a series, given the amount of work Ms Anne McCaffrey has put into this book.
A closing note: I'm still not sure what exactly a restoree is or why she's always hungry, and some things are a bit cheesy, (ugly ducking to beauty..
An earth-girl-stolen-to-alien-planet political drama with a great romantic thread and a light breezy tone. It has a summer read feel to it. Don't worry, the aliens are amorphous ~ no bugs. There is some plastic-surgery kind of experimentation, but it's very light. The romance element is wonderfully well done.
when I first read this book in the early 70's it was five stars in my mind. New and exciting science fiction for women. Sadly it has not held up over the years and this reading I felt it was three stars. So I split the difference. It might be that I read and enjoyed so many of her books and her writing grew so much over the years that I had different expectations this time. Still a good read.
Like most romance heroines of the time period, Sara is a virgin, and the strong suggestion is that she's a virgin because she was unattractive prior to being "restored." All of this is somewhat annoying to 21st century me.
However the book is not primarily a romance and doesn't really follow any other conventions of that genre for that time period (that I'm aware of).
I think k we've come far enough now that the hero could be present in a book written by a woman and the book would still be labeled science fiction rather than romance, and the heroine can be seen as an independent person.
Restoree revolves around Sarah, an earthling abducted by aliens to the planet Lothar, and Harlan, a regent of Lothar. Sarah finds herself as a caretaker of Harlan, who's been mentally incapacitated by his rivals through drugs. Thus, both are in an insane asylum as a result. Sarah must not only rescue Harlan from the vile drugs but also to escape from their predicament. The premise is a great set up for mystery, action, romance and political intrigue. However, the book did not deliver in any of
Restoree revolves around Sarah, an earthling abducted by aliens to the planet Lothar, and Harlan, a regent of Lothar.
Sarah finds herself as a caretaker of Harlan, who's been mentally incapacitated by his rivals through drugs.
Sarah must not only rescue Harlan from the vile drugs but also to escape from their predicament.
The premise is a great set up for mystery, action, romance and political intrigue.
The characters are too simple and straightforward with a great propensity to change their established characteristics for plot holes.
The actions, such as escaping from the insane asylum or the space battles later on, are also simple and too easily solved.
Considering it's the first novel from Grand Dame Anne McCaffrey it's one of those books that you just have to read, especially if Pern books were what got you hooked on the genre as a kid.
Kind of disjointed, needed more world-building and a few more chapters at the end.
I also wanted to know more about what the hell the Mil actually were.
They're never described, beyond being giant and prone to dissolving to jelly and stinking to high heaven when killed.I would have liked to see a sequel to this, exploring the possibilities that were discussed in the latter quarter of the story.
I'm usually wild about almost everything McCaffey writes.
She's one of the best in science fiction.However, this story just didn't ring my bell like most of hers do.
Don't get me wrong, her writing is as solid as ever; it's the story itself.You see; although it's technically science fiction (my favorite genre), it's primarily a romance, complete with shrinking-violet heroin and all the usual trimmings.
Like most romances, the author occasionally remembers to make the heroin "strong" or "forceful", but this never lasts long.Well, if you must write a romance, at least a good SF setting makes it easier to swallow.Romance fans would probably love this story.
So after reaching the halfway point in this book I gave it over for a wasted effort. This reads more like a romance novel with the Sci-Fi added for the spice of it and no other supporting reasoning than that. This book lacks many of the things that help stand McCaffrey as a pillar of the Sci-Fi/Fantasy writing community, there is a lack of depth to the characters and everything seems somewhat slapped together. I am glad that this outing didn't end up turning her away and that she kept writing.
