https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/720987.Aunts_Aren_t_Gentlemen
A case of pink spots on Bertie's chest (maybe it's a touch of malaria, who's to say?) sends him to the country on doctor's orders to rest and relax.
If you've ever read a Wodehouse, you know that's not bloody likely.Troublesome aunts, daffy explorers, strong-willed dames along with their ardent suitors, crusty landlords, and charming cats all conspire against poor old Bertie Wooster.
At this point, I'm predisposed to enjoy anything by Wodehouse, so perhaps The Cat-Nappers has received a gratuitous star in the ratings from me.
I'm full of suggestions!READER'S NOTE: The Cat-Nappers is alternately titled Aunts Aren't Gentlemen.
I’ve read some short stories that are told by Jeeves and they didn’t have the same power or humour about them either.
The problem is that Jeeves is a bit like Holmes, he is insanely clever (and so leaves Wooster trailing in his dust) but Wooster still needs to assert himself and when he does this invariably leads him and the story to the point of disaster.
The point being that Jeeves then needs to come to the rescue, but only after leaving poor Wooster dangling over the abyss so that he understands the full implications of his rescue.
Bertie's Aunt Dahlia is also vacationing in the area and - having received a tip on a horse race - bet every cent she has on Simla.
So Aunt Dahlia and other interested parties hatch up a scheme to kidnap and hide the cat until the race is over.
Through it all Bertie's valet/butler Jeeves - who barely raises an eyebrow even when he finds Bertie tied up and gagged - keeps a straight face and a stiff upper lip.This is a fun story filled with cases of mistaken identity, misunderstood intentions, shifting marriage engagements, and a cat with a mind of his own.
Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster/Jeeves books are just what you need when you're in the mood for a light read.
A case of pink spots on Bertie's chest (maybe it's a touch of malaria, who's to say?) sends him to the country on doctor's orders to rest and relax.
If you've ever read a Wodehouse, you know that's not bloody likely.Troublesome aunts, daffy explorers, strong-willed dames along with their ardent suitors, crusty landlords, and charming cats all conspire against poor old Bertie Wooster.
At this point, I'm predisposed to enjoy anything by Wodehouse, so perhaps Aunts Aren't Gentlemen has received a gratuitous star in the ratings from me.
I'm full of suggestions!READER'S NOTE: Aunts Aren't Gentlemen is alternately titled The Cat-Nappers.
Maiden Eggesford being an impossibly quiet Somerset village to which Bertie retreats on the advice of a specialist he has consulted following an outbreak of pink spots on his chest.
Jimpson Murgatroyd, advises him that too much fast living is responsible for the spots and thus Bertie needs rest, recuperation, a healthy lifestyle and clean country air.Sadly for Bertie, but to the delight of anyone with the good sense to read 'Aunts Aren't Gentlemen' a quiet life is the last thing he finds.
Whilst not up there with the very best of this series, it will make you smile, chuckle and laugh, and generally feel good about life.
So I am proposing a new review system .suppose you have never read a P G Wodehouse novel before and after coming across a raving review about one of Wodehouse's novel ,God bless reviewer's soul,you decide "so here is an author I must read next and added few of W.'s works into your TBR list in that moment of euphoria,or whatever the proper word is for your feelings at that time.This book in my humble opinion is a must add .But suppose fate has other plans.At that very Columbus moment of yours of discovering Wodehouse, NASA announces that a big meteorite is going to hit earth and it has run out of means to prevent it .This is the end for us all .No hope.A P.
It has many of the aspects of classic Wodehouse: feuding neighbours, plots to purloin/borrow/kidnap/nobble, an absent-minded old buffer, animals (cats and horses), aunts, mistaken identity and romantic entanglements changing by the hour.Although the trademark metaphors are not as numerous or elegant in some of his other works, they are still there: * "If she ever turned into a werewolf, it would be one of those jolly breezy werewolves whom it is a pleasure to know."* Of Jeeves, "he betrayed no emotion, continuing to look as if he'd been stuffed by a good taxidermist"* Jeeves' aunt stays with a friend whose address is "Balmoral, Mafeking Road" in an English village!* "I thought at first that my guardian angel, who had been noticeably lethargic up to this point, had taken a stiff shot of vitamin something and had become the ball of fire he ought to have been right along".* After falling, clothed, into a swimming pool, "It was with mixed emotions that I rose to the surface.
New setting, new characters same Bertie and Jeeves!A case of pink spots has a worrying Bertie retire to the nice quiet English village of Eggsford.
But as we know, there is nothing called a nice quiet English Village.
A cat that turns up everywhere and his favourite Aunt Dahlia who is risking Uncle Tom's digestion by betting all her life savings on a race.
Has some refreshing take on communism and some friends of Vanessa (Tolstoy, Churchill et all) and a part of first person adventure that is so typically Bertie.Definitely lot of laugh out loud moments!
Aunts aren't gentlemen..
Yes, this isn’t prime Wodehouse, nor is it prime Jeeves and Wooster, but even if it doesn’t reach those highest of high standards (and frankly those are daunting and almost impossibly high standards) then it’s still one of the most charming and amusing novels you’re ever likely to read.
I see now why Douglas Adams called PG Wodehouse the best writer ever. Adorable and whimsical and clever. Plus a kitty! My kind of book!
"I found him in the private bar having a gin and ginger ale.
His face, never much to write home about, was rendered even less of a feast for the eye by a dark scowl.
His spirits were plainly at their lowest ebb, as so often happens when Sundered Heart A is feeling that the odds against his clicking with Sundered Heart B cannot be quoted at better than a hundred to eight." (70)Aunts Aren't Gentemen is the last book in the Jeeves and Wooster series, which I have now (sadly—but also with such joy) completed.
"If she ever turned into a werewolf, it would be one of those jolly breezy werewolves whom it is a pleasure to know."And then my personal favorite: "Oh, that was my man Jeeves. He imitates cats."
More fun and frolics of the delightful Jeeves and Wooster, never a dull moment from these two. Guaranteed to brighten a grim, dull afternoon.
This wasn't one of my Jeeves & Wooster favourites (perhaps because it was the last...). It was just a touch too modern, especially when you go into a Wodehouse story expecting the pre-war slang and lightheartedness. Still, it was amusing! PGW always has the flair for description, for instance, referring to a fellow calming down as: "he went off the boil."And a marvellous description of Bertie Wooster by Bertie Wooster: "I was more the sort that is content just to exist beautifully."Which I shall be employing in my everyday vocabulary from here on out.
Wooster nailed it in this novel.... Bertie and Jeeves the best combination of Wodehouse continue to keep entertaining us and add couple of jilted lovers, an aunt and few tricky situations for Bertie and you know there's humour written all over..... thoroughly enjoyed it..... and yes a cute cat which keeps popping out of nowhere....
"I would gladly have continued our conversation, but I knew he must be wanting to get back to his Spinoza. No doubt I had interrupted him just as Spinoza was on the point of solving the mystery of the headless body on the library floor."Three words: I love Wodehouse.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
Hilarious. Read it.

another rollicking adventure with jeeves and wooster. bertie manages to get himself a rash and a prescription for country air. it gets harder to distinguish the tales wodehouse tells of these two characters, especially when he is forever referencing other stories he's told about them while he's telling you new ones. i will remember this one as the one with the horse who was in love with a cat, that made funny jokes about bird watching. :P
My first encounter with Wooster & Jeeves, and co. Won't be the last. I laughed so hard I cried, and my dog came over to inquire whether I was quite all right, and if so, could I please stop making those hideous noises?
I hate this title, and always think of this under its real title of  Aunts Aren't Gentlemen.  Such an enjoyable read.
Not quite as good as the earlier ones, but still a great deal of fun. Highly recommend!
Bertie Wooster gets unwillingly involved in his aunt's scheme to rig a horse race. He also gets unwillingly engaged to a girl, which enrages the girl's former fiancé. Lots of fun passages in this one, which I liked as much as The Code of the Woosters.
For a novel Wodehouse wrote in his nineties, the wit in Aunts Aren't Gentlemen is as sharp as any previous Jeeves book.
I seem to have managed to read three or even four anti-feminist books in a row. Wodehouse is always vaguely conservative but this one takes the cake for starring a jealous, controlling, belligerent young lover and a matching future father-in-law. Some plot points are dropped inexplicably (no real payoff for Bertie's misunderstanding that Orlo is a Communist, for instance) and I just don't feel this one is worth the time I spent listening.
I read them all so long ago and enjoyed them so much that I have given them all 5 stars.
As I re-read them I will adjust the stars accordingly, if necessary, and add a proper review.When I first discovered P.
I'm sure that through this great site I will joyfully find at least a few I have not read, and be able to track them down.My records only began in 1982, so I do not have a note of any I read before then.
I’m sure I will enjoy re-reading them.
It's probably my own fault for reading every single Jeeves and Wooster book that Wodehouse wrote. Now that I'm on the last one, I can't help comparing Wodehouse to a favorite uncle who tells great stories that are all suspiciously similar. He also knows of several one liners that have gotten laughs in the past and reuses them a few times too many. But, he IS a favorite uncle, so you still laugh and enjoy the visit.
For the title alone... PG caught me at an impressionable age and shaped the foundations of what funny is, at least in my brain.I am a hopeless lover of Wodehouse (and the BBC dramatisations- one time the screening captures the soul of the book, and has a wonderful theme song).
From BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:Blake Ritson reads a classic Jeeves and Wooster story from PG Wodehouse. Abridged by Richard Hamilton.
