https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54804.Dead_Man_s_Walk
Dead Man's Walk: Where it all BeganWhen my Aunt gave my Grandfather Lonesome Dove for Christmas in 1985, I patiently waited for him to finish it before diving into the saga of Texas Rangers Woodrow McCall and Gus McRae. I thought it was a cracking good read.
I figured I had seen the last of Call and Gus, though there was plenty more to tell if Larry McMurtry was of a mind to do it.
So, more than thirty years after Lonesome Dove showed up Christmas Morning in 1985, I just closed the back cover on Dead Man's Walk.
This, the chronological first of the Gus & Call stories, is a surprisingly harsh and brutal series of expeditions in the Southwest, usually involving hostile Mexicans, Apache and/or Comanche.
Buffalo Hump was a great villain, which brings me to a minor quibble...and not even one with the book, though.I really don't get some of the reviews calling this book racist when it comes to the native characters--why the FUCK would they not be hostile and savagely violent towards the protagonists?
While it was great to read about Gus and Call again - two of literature's more vivid characters - there seemed to be little point to DEAD MAN'S WALK other than "here's some more Gus & Call." While LONESOME DOVE contains not only great characters and stirring developments, but also meditates on themes of change, age and regret, here McMurtry seems content to just revisit his two leads and kick them around the old west for a few hundred pages.
McMurtry's prose is easy on the eyes, and he does have a great facility for language and observation, particularly when filtered through Gus. But this book is a pale shadow of LONESOME DOVE.
My review for those who do not want to read this book:Hungry, thirsty, lost, hungry, thirsty, lost, hungry, thirsty, Comanches, hungry, thirsty, lost, hungry, thirsty, Mexicans, hungry, thirsty, walking, hungry, thirsty, walking.My Review for those who may:This book, while entertaining, is rather repetitive.
I'm not sure how entertaining it would be without having read Lonesome Dove first (a clearly superior novel).
He just doesn't involve them in any significant way, which is a bit of a let down.
Part IV is also a bit odd as there is a POV shift for half of the remaining 7 chapters.
What a let-down. Prequels blow. I don't want to see my beloved, crusty, bad-ass cowboy heroes as young, inexperienced, frightened, blundering, bottom-of-the-totem-pole, young'ins any more than I want to see Darth Vader as an insolent, surly, teenager. It's not fun or cool or satisfying at all. I wonder if I'll ever learn.
Some years ago, my friend Tressa finally convinced me to read a western and that book was Lonesome Dove.
The book was Dead Man's Walk and featured my two favorite characters from Lonesome Dove.
With Will Patton's voice adding both humor and horror throughout, I had a fine time listening to this book.
I loved listening to Dead Man's Walk, and I am already looking forward to listening to it again in the future.
(Mostly that I love Will Patton's voice, but other things as well.) If you enjoyed Lonesome Dove, I believe that you'll enjoy this book too.
Instead they are boys in their teens, inhabiting a post-Alamo Texas where buffalo herds number in the millions and raiders of the mighty Comanche tribe can appear anywhere and inflict sudden death and unspeakable torture at any moment.
The suspense of the first Ranger patrol is almost unbearable, especially when Gus wanders off guard one stormy night and nearly walks right into the camp of legendary Comanche chief Buffalo Hump!It's very exciting to read this book, but sometimes frustrating, because the most interesting characters tend to lurk in the shadows.
Lonesome Dove is one of my favorite books of all time.
And a rare case where the casting of the mini-series was PERFECT.
I've re-read the book several times.Dead Man's Walk precedes Lonesome Dove timewise.
We meet many of the characters when they are younger.
While not as good as LD, it's still a great read.The long walk across Texas is fascinating.
I've driven it in my Jeep, I was so interested in it.
Larry McMurtry is a master writer who has written a wide spectrum of books.
I don't want to give spoilers away, but the drawing of the beans was a staggering scene.Highly recommended!
In fact, it sadly confirms the suspicions I had of McMurtry while reading Lonesome Dove which is to say he has incredible skill in drawing you into a rich, realistic, dusty Old West atmosphere but lacks the ability to create a well-structured story.
Also, contrary to popular opinion, I feel McMurtry -- at least in his Western novels -- paints some pretty one-dimensional characters.This book triples the meandering of Lonesome Dove, which incidentally I really loved but for different reasons.
Dead Man's Walk forms the first of two prequels to Lonesome Dove (the other being Commanche Moon) and attempts to build a solid back story to our two macho heros Gus and Woodrow.
This was the weakest of the series so far but it was still a good book. It was great to see Call and Gus when they were green and fumbling and it was great to see Gus meet Clara. Still, it didn't have the colorful characters that I loved so much in Lonesome Dove and Streets of Laredo. I was actually wondering if he wrote most of this as a background before he even wrote Lonesome Dove just because it was so much less entertaining.
To be perfectly candid, the only reason I picked this book up is...
I read Abercrombie's Red Country, loved it, and found out it was heavily influenced by McMurtry's The Lonesome Dove Series and Dexter's Deadwood among others, so I was like "why not?".
That being said, I know I'm supposed to type something else and give out further details about this book BUT, given there are some sweet reviews out there, and I'm not so good when it comes to reviews since I'm way better at being either a spoiling or a slacking bastard, I'll just let you go through what other people have to say about it.
i am not into Westerns but i have become a fan of Larry McMurtry. this is the second book in this series and i LOVE his style. i feel like i know the characters and wish them well. Cowboys vs Indians vs Mexicans. i recommend this and Lonesome Dove, so far. Nail biters for sure.
A man could perhaps and perhaps all day, and not find his way to the truth.I felt as though I walked across a very long desert by the time I completed this book.
Walking.
Lots and lots of walking.
The Major ("we've conquered a turtle") Chevallie expedition.Established the characters and the dangerous Texas landscape.2.
The Captain Salazar expedition.Time to walk the Jornado del Muerto.4.
For me, one expedition too many, but I understand the characters needed to evolve while undertaking dangerous...walking.
But next time, try riding.Book Season = Summer (relentless sun and poisoned water holes)
The first in the four-book "Lonesome Dove series" can also be considered a prequel, since it was published ten years after the third of the original trilogy, Lonesome Dove, though Lonesome Dove was the first to be published in 1985 (?).
This book follows a group of novice, inept and raggedy Texas Rangers, including Woodrow Call and Gus McCrae, setting out from San Antonio to Santa Fe, in search of victory and treasure.
I assume Call & Gus to be the main characters in the rest of the series.
I look forward to reading the rest of the series soon, going with Comanche Moon next.
Like Lonesome Dove, there's a long journey through the whole book with a surprisingly short return journey. There's also a prostitute trying to get to California and some evil and creative Indians. This book, however, seemed more like tragedy after tragedy on the open range, where everyone is always completely miserable or in danger. Then things got weird and the book was suddenly over.
so far better than I expected!Well, I'm glad I read this first because apparently it blows if you've read Lonesome Dove first.I quite liked it; Feckless youths and scary-ass indians!Not at all the romantical-style western I thought it would be.
Dead Man's Walk (Lonesome Dove #1)و Larry McMurtry
I haven’t seen the Lonesome Dove television series nor have I read the first two books in this series. I chose to approach the series with the earliest book in the storyline and I felt it was great. Interesting. Well-written. Continuously engaging plot development. Great characters. Sadness. Intrigue. An appreciation for living in the present. I’m really excited about moving on to Comanche Moon but I have some other things to get through first. Thinking I’m going to love this series after this start. If you haven’t read it; I would.
They lose two men, and are lucky to make it back safely to San Antonio.On their next adventure, the troop heads out for Santa Fe, New Mexico – over a thousand miles away!
Cobb “resigns” Falconer and gives the rifle to Buffalo Hump who rides off without another word.Later the Comanche set fire to the plains from three directions when the soldiers have their backs to a steep and deep canyon.
Caleb Cobb dithers and the men just have time to leap over the edge of the canyon in order to save themselves.
Call, Gus and Bigfoot got away and were lucky enough to find Caleb Cobb and a diminished troop of men.
The reader meets Captains Augustus McCrae and Woodrow Call in the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel Lonesome Dove as tired old men, ready for one last adventure after a life of Texas Rangering.
Here in Dead Man's Walk, the reader is reintroduced to them as young recruits to the Rangers.
Like Lonesome Dove and its sequel Streets of Laredo, this prequel is a hell of a good time.
This is the first book, chronologically speaking, but Lonesome Dove was the first written.
Dead Man's Walk is one of the best Western novels I have read, not nearly as deep as Cormac McCarthy's  Blood Meridian or All the Pretty Horses; but this is only the first McMurtry I have read, and I am delighted to find that there are so many more to read.I am not very familiar with the Texas landscape, but reading this book makes me want to go visit Big Bend National Park and some of the other areas around West Texas.
I do not understand all the whiny reviews.
I LOVED this prequel to LD even though knowing which characters make it on and which don't did ruin some of the suspense.
I was completely absorbed in the journey, felt my heart pounding repeatedly as I read, and laughed out loud more than twice.
McMurtry is one of few male authors who can include strong women characters in a book that obviously focuses on men, but make them genuine, integral, strong parts of the story.
Wow. Don't listen to the whiny naysayers - if you love Gus and Call, read it.
Not as nearly as fantastic as Lonesome Dove, but I'm determined to read all four books in the series.
Lonesome Dove is my favorite book (tied with Pillars of the Earth), and I had an urge to reread the series.
It's been a few years and I was slightly worried my love for this series wouldn't hold up.
I have no idea what I was thinking!
For anyone not sure if they would like a Western, Larry McMurtry's writing style captivates you completely.
You forget it's a Western...
instead you care about the characters, and about their perils and triumphs.
I can't wait to read the next one in the series, Comanche Moon, and keep this journey going.Note: Dead Man's Walk was published 3rd in the series, but is actually the first chronologically within the story line.
This is the prequel to the Lonesome Dove series, going back to the day that Call & Gus first met.It's been many years since I read Lonesome Dove and I had totally forgotten what a wonderful writer & storyteller Larry McMurtry is. His uncanny ability to describe the bleakness, beauty, and harshness of the American West, as well as, weaving great characters, especially strong women, & historical facts into his narratives makes for a great read. I could hardly put this down.
This is for sure my favorite book of the Lonesome Dove series. Surprisingly it took me 4 days to read I usually take my time on reading books but this one just had me wanting to come back for more. The movie is really great also.
Although tales of the Wild West aren’t anywhere near the top of my list of preferred reading genres, I found this to be a masterful portrayal and left me wanting to read more. Great characters and a great adventure.
If you read my review of Lonesome Dove you know how furious I was with the poor ending of that very, very long novel.
Not the case.One issue I do have, though, is with Gus and his whoring.
How did somebody so frisky for whores manage to live so long in that time period without dying of some STD?That aside, I completely enjoyed Dead Man's Walk and definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a good Western with plenty of action built around character development, or anyone who just wants a good story and can handle reading about fights, torture, scalping, etc.
I almost could not put it down and actually fell asleep reading it last night:) I have heard a lot of people including Mitch have major problems with the Mini-series of this book but I am going to wait until I finish all the books to watch that, which may take awhile because I don't like to read the same author in a row often.
Another interesting thing is that I have heard several stories of the old west from the Native American point of view but interestingly enough never the cowboy..
I was fearful of the Comanche Chief Buffalo Hump from his first introduction to the final scene.
I can't imagine ever having the courage to cross the plains after hearing the stories of the Comanches and Apaches.
My favorite part of the book begins in the leper colony of San Lazaro, where a black or white bean determines the fate of the 10 remaining cowboys and continues to the final scene of Gus and Call helping a leper women on her journey home to England and have the ultimate face-off with Chief Buffalo Hump.I would recommend this book to: Vaughn, Rex, Jay, Clark, Jerry, Darren, Dad, Uncle John and all other cowboys.
