https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7801229-the-exiled-queen
“Nobody's going to hand you anything. You don't get what you don't go after.”  Well, I wanted a sequel as mindblowing as The Demon King and I got it! I am under Cinda Williams Chima's spell!  “The pressure of past tragedies drove him forward - the need to escape reminders of his losses, and the desire to be somewhere other than where he'd been. That, and a smoldering desire for revenge.”  After losing everything he cared about, Han Alister is on his way to Oden's Ford to attend  Hogwarts Schoo
But Raisa is also heading to Oden's Ford, to attend the military academy and hide from her mother and the Wizard Council that wants to control her via a forced marriage and cause civil war in the queendom, while their enemies surround them.
You need the strength to do what's right, even when what you want most in the world is the wrong thing.”
Of course I got a serious Harry Potter vibe but that's meant to happen every time I read about wizarding schools because J.K. Rowling is the Queen!
❝It's not enough to know right from wrong. You need the strength to do what's right, even when what you want most in the world is the wrong thing.❞  Rating: ★ ★ ★ ★ HOLY CRAP. This book was literally everything. The Exiled Queen was such a major step up from The Demon King. This series just keeps getting better and better with each installment. I'm saying this straight out: IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE SEVEN REALMS SERIES, YOU BETTER GET A MOVE ON BECAUSE YOU ARE MISSING OUT.The Exiled Queen was ab
But I'm beginning to think that this is just a trend in this series so I strongly recommend just being patient and getting through the first 150 pages or so because I guarantee that the rest of the book will BLOW YOUR MIND.Like most series in the literary world, each installment is an upgrade from the previous book, but it took me by surprise how much of an improvement The Exiled Queen was from The Demon King.We move away from politics and the Seven Realms as a whole and focus more on our younger characters as they all step foot on Oden's Ford to attend the academy.
All of the storylines converged in this book in the most brilliantly tangled way and I just LOVE EVERYONE SO MUCH.
Even the secondary characters are amazing!The first 100+ pages of this book dragged a bit like the first book did (especially Han's POV), but then everyone wound up at Hogwarts a military academy/wizard school and everything got a million times better.
Like there are multiple love interests for the female MC (who is seriously awesome btw), yet the romance definitely isn't the main focus of the story.
Everything is so twisty and tangled right now that I love it all.
The Exiled Queen shows more about character development than the previous book.
Set in the backdrop of a war, the book has shown the repercussions and aftermath of such terrible and unpredictable times.The book begins with Hanson Alister and Raisa ana’ Marianna travelling to Oden’s Ford, a boarding school, each carrying the weight of their past.
There is a slow burn romance between the protagonists which is rare and unique in its own way but you're going to be disappointed again because they meet each other after the first half of the book.
Let's be real, okay? If I didn’t have to get up in 5 hours, I would dive in The Gray Wolf Throne RIGHT NOW. “You couldn’t keep your mouth shut? I’m calling you Glitterhair from now on. Or Talksalot.” I don’t know what is it with these books that keep me captivated and compelled to read more and more and more. The characters' growth is fantastic, my boy Han fascinating, the plot way more surprising but it still contains several tropes that I usually don't like - including an heroine who "loves" s
GREY EVERYWHERE, I tell you.The plot keeps thickening and promises a hell lot of action in the next two books, with all the threads linking together and the menace on all the characters' heads more and more present.Anyway, off to bed I go, after these ramblings that may or may not be morphed into a real review tomorrow depending on my ability to restrain myself from reading book 3 (= closed to none).
These FREAKING books man.I love the characters, I love the word, I love the plot. I love everything about them.Raisa is such a great character and I really love how the author includes tropes I'm normally so tired of seeing but twists them in such an interesting way that I love them and they are fun to read.GAH so much love for this series so far.
However, the way the lives of the main characters in this story were interwoven into each other was so interesting, that I couldn't help but enjoy reading every last bit of this book.
It also possibly helped that I could (I think) pronounce all of the names.One more thing I want to mention, and then I'm going to go...I've got The Gray Wolf Throne in my hot little hands right now, and I can't wait to start reading it!(view spoiler)[In the first book and the beginning of this one, several of the characters seemed to have found true love, or at least the beginnings of it.
Raisa is my queen, just fucking slays everyone. I love her so freaking much. Her character grows so much during this series, she becomes more confident yet kinda learns how to deal with her temper (respect)  “Dancer’s blue eyes glinted with amusement. “Now say, ‘Copperheads are little more than leeches on the body of society—a necessary evil.’”Han laughed. “I don’t think I can manage. Guess I’m not cut out for this.” Han and Dancer continued to be troublemakers together, figuring out how to live
Han learns how much he loves Raisa (who he thinks is really Rebecca) and he just thinks over their times together.
Raisa's sass made me laugh so hard at times, she is so practically yet a dreamer and a warrior yet learns to manuever politics.
Will Raisa ever see Han again and if so could they build a relationship after so many lies?
By the way, Alister, I’ve been lying to you for more than a year; I’m actually a member of the royal family you despise.
I know this is going to be a really tough book for me to review.I loved this book, just like the Demon King, but there were definitely some parts of it that I liked less...
I've heard a lot of people say that this book was slower than The Demon King, and unfortunately I agree with them.
(view spoiler)[ I was disappointed that we never learned anything else about Crow.
Hopefully we learn more about him later...
(hide spoiler)]I'm definitely not happy about the cliff hanger...
I'm really glad I already checked out book three from the library!
I love fantasy again!!!Yet, I still hate reviewing fantasy - with an added emphasis on the word hate.
Fantasy books = Point A intersects with person C on the way to meeting person F at point Y.
These books meet the criteria for what I'd like to see more of in YA fantasy.
The books will appeal to a broad base of readers, even lovers of adult fantasy.
Whether you're new to fantasy or it's an old love, I'd say this series is worth checking out.
Fantasy still owns my ability to review, apparently.
Excuse me, but I think I fell in love with 2 or 29 characters.
I adore diversity, okay?!• Hans: OMG I LOVE HANS.
*ahem* That aside, I like how Raisa is more emotionally venerable in this book, but she definitely NEVER collapses into a puddle.
He's made it clear he CAN'T be in love with Raisa, but he totally is.
Raisa ends up in Weir house (the army side) and Hans is at Mystwerk (the wizard side).
Like they're both such hUGELY strong characters...but the seemed to be so easily pounded into the terrors at the end of the book.
"Nobody's going to hand you anything. You don't get what you don't go after.” I really enjoyed The Demon King so I went in with pretty high hopes for this book and I was not disappointed at all. This book was great - even better than The Demon King. I seriously wish that these books didn't have such a slow start! Although, I definitely think that the way this book left off, we (hopefully) should be getting a faster start since everything is going to shit. Okay, so basically it was slow for abou
I really enjoyed The Demon King so I went in with pretty high hopes for this book and I was not disappointed at all.
Although, I definitely think that the way this book left off, we (hopefully) should be getting a faster start since everything is going to shit.
Her page time was definitely cut shorter though since Han had a lot of stuff to go through and learn.Let me tell you that there's so many feels and potential ships in this book.
Let's just say it right now: I ship Han and Raisa a lot.
DNF at 30 pages
3.75 StarsThe Exiled Queen was a worthy sequel which to me, surpassed the first book The Demon King. I had heard this series gets better with every book and so far that has been true. The writing was fluid, and Ms. Chima knows the right cords to strike and how to get your heart involved in the characters and their stories. If you're into a thrilling and epic YA fantasy with some brilliant and heartwarming characters then I would recommend this series.
Agh! HAN! Now, I'm not guna lie....I loved book one WAY more than this. However-my track record is that I almost ALWAYS hate book two in a series, because, well, things are still developing. Hey, don't blame me. I like the build-up, but I'm fucking ready for this epic book three and four now-LET THE GAMES BEGIN!Due to the fact that I KNOW book three and four will be epic thanks to my lovely Dark Pup, I have no doubt this series is about to get real fangirlish for me. You've been warned. For more of my reviews, please visit:
Re-reading for the release of Flamecaster with some peeps at Buddies Books and BaublesOriginal ReviewDefinitely for Fantasy Lovers of all ages.Han and Raisa are both now headed separately to Oden’s Ford for training.
Han needs to learn how to harness the power inside him to be able to fulfill the deal he made with the clans.
Raisa needs to hide from her mother and a forced marriage she didn’t want until it is safer to come home.
Han needs to learn how to be a blueblood and Rebecca agrees to teach him.This book has so much description in it.
I'm actually writing this as I come to and end of the third book.
It actually reminds me of a couple of series, that while I despised the first book, the latter ones came to grow on me until I couldn't help but fall in love.
Hopefully, that is the case here.While they seem to have no clear plot or drive, as you read, you see many tibits that will ultimately come together, or at least I'm assuming, to make a worthwhile story.
The line of loyalty is being blurred and one thing I have come to love is the grayness of it all.
With book one I felt like nothing was really going on almost, but now it feels more like it was just the first puzzle piece and couldn’t be fully appreciated without seeing the rest of it.
It was revealed at the end of book one that Han was descended from the Demon King, and apparently so was Raisa.
I mean, I want her to be with Han so I wasn’t like pissed or anything but the guy you love taking some vows and then literally being in pain and sick to his stomach if he gives into any desire for you at all.
No, really. This book is the lovechild of Harry Potter and The Name of the Wind, with an extra pump of sass and hilarity, except it's set in a queendom, and everyone's some version of a half-blood mutt. It's basically all my favorite things in one.
Instead of focusing on ornate descriptions and oodles and bunches of fantastical creatures, The Exiled Queen is full of characters that I love.
While the plot is great and the writing is superb, it was the characters that really made this novel.
. .Let's just talk about Han, the main male character.
And through the whole book, even when I wasn't busy thinking Why are there no reformed thief-now-magician boys in my high school?
But honestly, I liked The Exiled Queen more than the previous novel.
I was too busy falling in love with the characters.
4.5⭐Just fantastic.
4.5⭐️Just fantastic.
Another great audiobook with my kids!
I love that Chima continues to deliver very thorough independent stories for both Han and Dancer and for Raisa and Amon.
This means that by the time Han and Raisa actually meet up (quite a ways into this book) they each feel like fully realised and independently strong characters.My kids certainly enjoyed this as much or more than the first book.
Needless to say, we started book 3, The Gray Wolf Throne, immediately on finishing this one.This is a great series so far, with a lot of depth and an interesting story and characters.
Most books that deal with magical and/or fantastical elements are set in the modern world, so true high fantasy novels get my attention faster than cake with icing and the smell of popcorn.Plus...look at those covers.
The design and marketing skews young, but the series reads like fantasy "Degrassi" (view spoiler)[Okay, I readily admit that "Degrassi" was a guilty pleasure indulgence when I was in high school, but come on.
(That's not to say I'd trust him.)I love magic schools!
But although the book was still good, the school and the magic were disappointing.
Also, very few new characters were added, considering there's a whole school full of new people.
We meet one annoying student girl, but that's about it outside of Micah's friends.
They're both good characters, don't get me wrong, but a magic school book this is not.
I loved that she has friends now.
Though it was disappointing how little time she spends with Amon.
It took more than half the book for our main characters to meet up again.
*** 4.25 ***A buddy read with the fantastic Fantasy lovers at BB&B!Started with the travel of all our young characters, be it good or bad, unknowingly ending up in the same town, same school and at the same time - talk about a coincidence:-)Once at the school, our 4 main characters, Han, Raisa, Amon and Dancer all have to deal with the typical for being the new kid at school issues on top of the never ending blows their respective faiths have dealt them by the virtue of their births...
I am anxious to get to the next book and wish all of you Happy Reading!!!
EditSummy of feelingsHan&RaisaFull review to comeEditI can't wait to start this!!!! I loved the first one and I love that I have the other books out already so I won't have to wait! ( I think they're out) the characters are amazing and fun and I just can't wait anymore. I am gonna start now.
The first half of this book is completely dragging...
I feel like I still have whiplash or something.
I don't even know how to handle the rest of my feels so this is all I got..
(view spoiler)[ Nope, I will never get over him or what he did for Raisa or how freaking heart breaking his story is.
Like she's the perfect blend of young/naive but strong willed and completely determined and unswayable.
Like how can I not love this boy?
Ugh. Like I even need to say this but um...Adorbs.
(view spoiler)[and those scenes with Raisa?
This means nothing to Raisa and she wants to make it work no matter what anyone says, but there is a little hiccup in that situation.
Raisa runs into Han at school and starts tutoring him.
I'm hoping maybe something will happen with these two as they can be all powerful together and destroy the jerks in the book!
Raisa is actually going by the name Rebecca Morley so no one will recognize her as the princess, as she ran away from home.
Han has no idea she is the queen.
I love this series so far and I hope it continues that way.
I kinda remembered what went down with TDK, which was good because I was reading chapter 1 too slow for my liking.The next couple of chapters flew by because I had one goal in mind: to get to the reunion of Han and Raisa before sleeping.
I hate how she claimed to be pining for Amon but also acted totally in love with Han a minute later.
I need to know whether Han and Raisa will get married (aaaaaaaaaaaaa they betta) and rule Seven Realms together.But at the same time I’m terrified to find out they don’t and I end up ditching the series.
4.5/5 stars! Raisa, the character that bothered me in the last one bothered me less in this one, but she still has a long way to go! The series is near perfect for me other than how annoying I find her. I'm excited for the next one!
