https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11742691-the-hunger-games
I read this at Walmart (talk about being thrifty) when my mom was shopping for groceries. Oh you don't know how long it takes for her to just get meat, think about the milk, eggs, etc. Seriously, I could just die of boredom if this book wasn't there. So anyway, I read this and it really helped me a lot to remember the characters names and who's playing who (I still don't remember most of them, only Katniss, Peeta, Gale, and Prim). The pictures just made me want to watch the movie more!
I chose that quote at the top there, because I agree with it wholeheartedly; I can deal with different hair color, missing characters, and other changes...as long as the characters are the same ones I fell in love with, and as long as the movie makes me feel that same powerful way that the book did.*Clears throat* Moving on....It was nice getting to see how things work behind the scenes.
For someone who doesn't know a lot about what goes into making a movie, I appreciate the fact that each step of the process is explained; from Suzanne Collins' experience with getting the book published, to why the production company/director/cast was chosen, the thought that went into the costumes, the food, and the locations, and all the way to what it was like on set.
After reading this book, I just saw how much every crew member of  The Hunger Games  worked hard for the movie.
You could see their perseverance to do it, to make it a great movie to make the fans happy- which didn't fail.
I am so glad that the Hunger Games was a blockbuster for the makers of it  really  deserved it.
Everyone prepared for it, the cast and crew and especially the director.
And I must say, the makers of the Hunger Games satisfied THG fans and totally deserved to be one of the blockbusters of all time.
I am really disappointed that for the movies, they are getting rid of the character Madge.
All around, I believe that in the long run, Madge is the most important character.
She gives Katniss the Mockingjay pin.
And, her mom was Maisyilee, Katniss' mom's best friend, who also fought in the Hunger Games with Haymitch.
So, I think it draws a nice line for a best friend for Katniss and it connects people that you don't think would ever get along.
Getting rid of Madge was the stupidest decision that they could have made!
En lisant ce guide avant de voir le film, on en comprend mieux l'univers et on ne pourra que l'apprécier davantage!!! Il n'y a pas à dire, je suis fan et je suis très impatiente. Ce film a droit à tout le succès qu'il mérite et je pense que tous les fans seront ravis de cette adaptation! Ma review complète: http://ceresu.canalblog.com/archives/...
I am a sucker for these movies guides because I love all the glimpses behind the scenes. I love seeing how things work and how movies get made. When it comes to rating them, that's a little harder because it's not a story. So I figured 3 stars would be sum it up perfectly.
Really awesome being able to see how the movie was made! I sooo wish I could be one of the tributes in the movie. ;D
The book also, ahem, pays tribute to the actors playing the other main tributes, as well as to the casting of major Capitol characters including Cinna, Effie, and President Snow.Part 3: "The Look of The Hunger Games: Places and Props" details the areas in North Carolina used in the film and has many photos of various sets in District 12, the Arena, and the Capitol.
This section has photos of perhaps all of Katniss's outfits and costumes, from her drab District 12 duds to her "Girl on Fire" dress.Part 5: "The Filming of The Hunger Games" details the challenges of filming in the summer heat and rain in the North Carolina forest.
Since I really enjoyed the Hunger Games books, I've naturally been excited for the upcoming movie.
My mama surprised me by giving me this movie companion and, while it was an easy read, all of the photographs and illustrations were incredible.
This is going to be a visually stunning movie; from the food, to the set of the area, to the fashions and makeup of the Capitol.
Even though I'm not yet sure that I'll be seeing the film in March when it comes out, the book was well-worth the read to not only give me a peek into the making of the Hunger Games film, but also fuel my love and interest in the general movie-making process.
Très complet, exactement ce que j'attendais de ce guide. On en apprend beaucoup sur les coulisses, les choix qui ont été fait,... Aucun vrai spoiler pour les personnes n'ayant pas encore pas lu les romans. Quelques nouveaux Stills.
I really loved all of the information and the pictures in this companion! It's exactly the information I wanted to know about the director, what parts Suzanne Collins is in, casting, etc.... made me even more excited for this movie! I can't wait to see it!
I loved getting a "behind-the-scenes" look at The Hunger Games movie!
This was interesting, and gave me insight to the behind the scenes aspects of the film.The interviews with Gary Ross and Nina Jacobson were precisely why I wanted to read it.
I wanted to know why they chose to deviate from the books and why they went in certain directions.
They wanted the film to reflect and portray what we read in the books.
I did like the art work, but I think seeing more things actually being filmed would have made this book better.
(Eg. of epic epic fails: Twilight series, parts of the Harry Potter series - but especially movie #5, & the True Blood TV series [Sookie Stackhouse])So when THG: Official Illustrated Movie Companion released I was eager to get my hands on it.
Obviously I don't pay too close attention to book titles.I am so glad I read THG: Official Illustrated Movie Companion.
And I must say that it was a massive relief for me to read that Suzanne Collins played a large part in the writing of the script.THG: Official Illustrated Movie Companion has finally made me excited to see the movie.
I enjoy reading about all that went into making the movies.
We an work around the wings!' He was that good." and her thoughts about what she wants people - especially young people - to get out of the books."It's crucial that young readers are considering scenarios about humanity's future, because the challenges are about to land in their laps.
About global warming, about our mistreatment of the environment, but also questions like: How do you feel about the fact that she people take their next meal for granted when so many other people are starving in the world?
4.5/5 starsIf you've seen the movie and love the book then this is a nice companion to the Hunger Games movie.The Illustrated Movie Companion has lots of pictures and is divided into sections.
And the Hunger Games was originally going to be 3rd person in the past tense.I really enjoyed reading about the casting.
I just think as a reader it would have been fascinating.Overall, this Movie Companion was a fun read.
And if you are a fan of the movie then it is definitely a must read.

It was heart racing, exciting and the most adventurous books i have ever read in my life. The narrating was so good i was at the edge of my seat all the time! It was very realistic too. About the wars. About the conclusion of our generations. I truly believe that as time goes on it's a possibility that nations will fight for land. In overall it's definately worth reading.
Truely the best selling novel..
It all a game white district but Peter love
(p.14) [15] I found this section very interesting and of great interest in examining how the violence was handled in the book and movie.One page showing beautiful glossy photographs of actors,Woody Harrelson, as Haymitch, and Lenny Kravitz, as Cinna.
(p.59) Also, considerations of colors, for example, the Capitol, food and clothes, to be vibrant in "Blues, oranges, greens...but not any pastels, not any earth tones, Nothing brown." (p.81) This is a huge section of the book that covers a lot of material, and the importance of some themes in the movie--like food.
Madeline Janus 3/17/16 Period   The book I read was “The Hunger Games”. It is the official illustrated movie companion. This book told you about how they made the movie. How they filmed, produced, and got creative ideas. This book told you about the characters and recent jobs they did before the started casting “The Hunger Games”. Also it told you how the characters acted with each other on and off set. The book also shows pictures. The pictures are off things on and off set. It showed you how t
This book told you about the characters and recent jobs they did before the started casting “The Hunger Games”.
Also it told you how the characters acted with each other on and off set.
The book also shows pictures.
They showed the pictures of most of the characters outfits and them in them.
They had to spend hours making them and that shows hard work.
I really like how all the characters got along on and off set.
That shows team work.
It really showed how they all worked together and got through it.
"This is a girl who starts a revolution. This is a girl who changes the world." I feel like reading The Hunger Games and watching The Hunger Games movies all over again in order to re-live my experiences and emotions while reading and watching The Hunger Games. The nostalgia is real!This movie companion reads like a magazine. It's full of stunning graphics, pull-out quotes and vibrant colours which makes it easy to browse through and enjoy.The Hunger Games:Official Illustrated Movie Companion m
It's full of stunning graphics, pull-out quotes and vibrant colours which makes it easy to browse through and enjoy.The Hunger Games:Official Illustrated Movie Companion made me understand and appreciate the effort that went into creating the Hunger Games movies.
Many of The Hunger Games movie-making secrets are revealed.
That's definitely AMAZING!The Hunger Games:Official Illustrated Movie Companion not only gave me an insider view into the process of making a movie, but it also made me appreciate the Hunger Games movies and the team that brought it to life.
I thought this book had a lot of interesting things in it. I was so excited for the movie to come out I just had to read this book to satisfy my hunger to see the movie! The pictures are great and I loved looking at the capitol children. I would definitely recommend this book to any Hunger Games fans!
Loved the detail and dedication Kate Egan put into this book: creating a detailed picture of the cast, sets, and costume/cosmetic decisions used in the film. I loved the section on 'Capitol fashion' which was hideous, but in a way which I feel looks true to the books' description. There were a few new stills as well :)
Didn't take me too long to read, cover to cover. I suppose I did expect a little more behind the scenes stuff, more of the making of the film. I got some of that, but it's not nearly as detailed as I thought it would have been. Whether it's worth your money? I don't know. How big a fan are you?(I bought my copy at Big W for $15.)
Read it and then my niece read it. It gives a good overview of how this movie was made. It has spoilers, so it helps to have read the books and trilogy. It's heavy on images, which also greatly builds my anticipation for the film.
After reading this I'm even more excited for the movie. I got chills a few times as I read about the entire process of adapting Suzanne Collins brilliant book into a movie. I loved the insight into the script writing, the casting, and the creation of the Hunger Games world. Is it March 23rd yet?!?!
I am so excited to see this brilliant series turned into a movie!! This movie guide was so beautifully done. It is full of extraordinary behind the scenes photos and descriptions. I loved reading through this guide, now bring on the movie!
This was really interesting and had some great pictures and facts. I was really impressed with how some of the aspects in the film were created. I still can't believe I read this book in like an hour...
