https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/549210.The_Choice
This is really one of the best books I've read in a long time.
It's a self-help book hidden inside a great story, and one that makes you stop and think.
I actually burned the chicken tonight trying to finish the last two chapters!Mandino takes what is usually a preachy subject (how to live our lives) and turns it into an introspective feast.
The things that I'll take away from this book are life-altering.
I love that we are, in a sense, taking the journey with him.There were also some twists along the way that I liked.
Turns out, I'd come to the wrong conclusion completely.
It was a bit odd at times, but overall I appreciated Mandino's message about making the choice to live a successful life through prioritizing those relationships that matter the most.
Mandino delivers his message through the story of a man who quits his high-paying, long-hour job to pursue a dream of writing and to spend more time with his family.
I liked the following quote very much:"I am convinced that the greatest legacy we can leave our children are happy memories: those precious moments so much like pebbles on the beach that are plucked from the white sand and placed in tiny boxes that lay undisturbed on tall shelves until one day they spill out and time repeats itself, with joy and sweet sadness, in the child now an adult."
Spectacular book. I've read this book for the second time three days ago and it still gave me the chills. A wonderful and a good kind of chill, mind you.
"I choose a better way to live!" :) A few of my favorite thoughts from his big final speech are:Choose to be happy: "So many of us spend our lives searching for happiness.
Endless search...."Henceforth, my pursuit of happiness has ended.
151)"Lord, make me an instrument of your peace; where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon;where there is doubt, faith;where there is despair, hope;where there is darkness, light;and where there is sadness, joy."I shall pass through this world by once.
Let me not defer nor neglect it, for I shall not pass this way again."  (p.
This book have brought out how we must make our choices to live a better life.
Giving a really good realization that what we are right now and what we have is a sum or result of a choice we did.
It makes us realize that we always have a choice and we must use our judgement and the knowledge we have to make the choices so as to give us a better life.
Og Mandino surely gave us another book to read on to remind us of the things in life that matters most.
However I was recommended this book by a family friend and frankly, I couldn't put it down.
It starts with an extremely successful business man who is making more money than he can spend, and is about to be promoted.
He's spent all of his time working instead of enjoying life and his family.
He quits his job, rejecting his promotion to Vice President.
The book carries him through the next five years until he is confronted with a dilemma.
This book carries morals and the keys to a brighter future; that should be heeded with immense gravity, and truly taken to heart.
I was happy to have this book find me at our local Deseret Industries last week.
How does he keep you wanting to find out what happens?The reading of this is timely as we have been hold discussions about moral agency and the choice to act or be acted upon.
We talked about our road maps, the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The author does mention another of authors and their quality books.
Is this how Og gets you to read other worthy writings?The key is Choice.
Every summer since everyone gets the same disease (boreness) so my dad makes me read an inspirational book from his whole bookshelf.
Afterwards, he makes me write an essay, summarizing the book.
Since I was forced to read this book by my dad 2 years ago I was soooooo mad.
But after I actually gave the book a chance it was pretty good.
It puts you in a situation to make a choice about a question you would never think you would ever be asked.
This book has to do a lot with God and will teach you to always think positive when life throws you down and to see the important things in life.
I read this 20 years ago and loved it, but this time around found the writing cheesy and found my perspective changed such that the ideas seemed more idealistic than realistic.
Superb!!! I just love ALL his books! Highly recommend!
mandino's books are always inspiring
This book was weird for me. I wanted to read the main character's book, which as far as I can tell doesn't exist, but the author has a book of the same title. I like the main character taking a step into the unknown and taking risks. I recognize this a little bit in my own life. However, it was really hard for me to finish the last chapter. I just wanted to take a nap and had to slog through it...
If you’re a dad, this is a must readHow often are we trapped by our own doing; the busy-ness of life; the irritation of someone else’s action or words; the invented minutia that comprises our day?It’s all a waste of our lives. The Choice gave me an opportunity to to see I have a myriad of choices in any situation and that I’m never a prisoner or victim. What an amazing book to share with your children.
Great, short book. Very inspirational. Read it last night and woke up today feeling full of energy and motivation to get on with my life and make the most of it. I'm not certain how long the energy boost will last, hopefully it will have some long term impact. This is not just a book about success but also about finding happiness in every day life.
Og Mandino was a geniusNever before have I read words and sentences arranged in a manner that enlarge my heart and open my soul. Being a melanoma survivor with three young children, I had a very raw connection with the main character. Beautifully written with principles for all ages.
Quyền năng của sự lựa chọn,những gì bạn chọn là những gì bạn nhận được. Vậy làm sao để có một sự lựa chọn đúng giữa bao nhiêu quyết định hằng ngày? Cuốn sách này cho bạn một cái nhìn sâu sắc hơn từ chính trãi nghiệm của tác giả, nhân vật mà ông hoá thân vào.
This is an awesome book. I have some of it memorized. Try it, you'll like it.
I love the picture Og Mandino creates through his words and in my mind. A forever favorite author. I am blessed to have met Og in person. A timeless treasure.
Everything in this book just seems a little too perfect.
amazing. reviving.
Como todos los libros de Og Mandino, "La Elección" te proporciona herramientas que te ayudarán a mejorar tu vida diaria. A principio se me hizo demasiado utópico pero su idea no es tan descabellada pues su propuesta de elegir seguir un sueño de vida a pesar de todo, no es imposible, un poco difícil pero no imposible. Sin embargo, el final si bien me agrada, se me hizo un poco apresurado.
Og Mandino is a very skilful writer. He weaves an invaluable message in an interesting story. The story has its own twists and turns which makes the reading quite fun.However, I liked some of the others books (Greatest Salesman, Miracle) much more than this one hence the three stars.
Life-affirming and inspirational, as always.
Que les puedo decir de este libro...
Creo que es de esos libros que llegan en el momento indicado ya que cuando lo leí estaba en un momento de mi vida en el cual tenia que hacer una gran elección para mi futuro y me sentía muy confundida pero este libro me ayudo bastante.
Creo que como dice el libro siempre estamos haciendo elecciones, por más mínimas que sean como decidir que comeremos y cosas así, unas que son ya como por instinto, pero llegan momentos en los cuales tenemos que tomar decisiones que son realmente de pensar.
Un excelente libro que ejemplifica, a través de una historia, muchas de las decisiones que a veces tomamos en la vida, las prioridades que decidimos dar a cada cosa y las oportunidades que dejamos ir o las que llegamos a tomar y el costo que estas pueden llegar a tener.
Og Mandino con su relato nos hace comprender la dimensión que puede llegar a tener una elección, nos hace reflexionar sobre la importancia de encontrar un equilibrio y de entender que gran parte del éxito es posible gracias al apoyo en el hogar.
Excellent book told in a story about a man, his family and the decisions he makes in his life. IT is about giving back and helping others making choices that are pleasing to God and following the ways of Jesus Christ by being a servant to the fellow man by using the gifts God has given you. The path may not be smooth, in most cases life is not and if it is you are not accepting the challenges set before you and willing to be stretched and formed into the vessel God can use and wants you to be.
Like most of the of Mandingo short stories we are presented with a parable that is designed to motivate us to succeed.Here we encounter a tale of a successful insurance agent who makes the choice to leave the corporate world and become a writer. The premise of the change is that the success in business was at the cost of time with his family.A simple pleasant story that leaves you with a feel good effect at the end.
This is without a doubt his best work. A little dated, but if you've ever dreamed of just walking away from your job to pursue something you've always wanted to do... this is for you. Light, funny, touching, mysterious, romantic... all things that make a good story. If you have a free Saturday evening, pick it up and settle in for a couple of hours. You won't want to put it down! And unlike a Stephen King book, you'll feel wonderful at the end. Just don't go an quit your job.
Great success comes with the willingness to pay a great priceEvery moment towards the life that we all want contains within it the possibility for a choice--a choice to do the right thing which gives us power and peace.Time is shorter than you think; take action now. Like many self-improvement books, this one is more about catalyzing the motivation to do something great, more than a magic pill for making life better. Well done, and worth re-reading.
The book was recommended by my father. I really enjoyed it and it hit me on several different levels. Although the book is a bit dated (30+ years old), it still has the same morals and values that I think are important in any motivational book. There are some deeply spiritual messages in this book, so if that's not something your comfortable with, you probably won't want to read it. If you're okay with that, then it's a must read!
