https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41490.On_the_Street_Where_You_Live
Chilling, thought-provoking, and utterly compelling, this mesmerizing thriller is vintage Mary Higgins Clark, and proves why she remains the undisputed Queen of Suspense.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هفتم ماه نوامبر سال 2003 میلادیعنوان: در خیابانی که تو زندگی می‌کنی؛ نویسنده: مری هیگینز کلارک؛ مترجم: نفیسه معتکف؛ تهران، لیوسا، 1381؛ در 410 ص؛ شابک: 9645634253؛ چاپ سوم 1388، شابک: 9789645634252؛ چاپ چهارم 1395؛ در 400 ص؛ داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مزنی جوان در پی کشف دو قتلی ست که باهم ارتباط دارند، در حالیکه فاصله ی زمانی آنها بیش از یکصد سال است.
the end was so predictable ! i liked it at first but i got bored quickly and there was so many characters i lost count and got confused and bit lost reading this one just naah !! not my cup of tea
3,5/5 αστεράκια
By the time the murderer was revealed, it was insignificant because I couldn’t remember who he was.Emily Graham leaves her life in Albany behind to return to her ancestral summer home in Spring Lake, New Jersey.
It’s obvious from the start that Emily’s stalker and would-be murderer are not the same, and the stalker is revealed rather early on.This book wasn’t awful, just hard to follow because of the lack of variation in the characters.
After closing on the house, and trying to establish her life in the new area, Emily receives threats on her life, which she believes are from the stalker that she put in jail four and a half years ago.
Towards the last chapters, the reader can easily figure out who Emily’s stalker is, but who killed the young girls a century ago, is also a surprise, since the killer should have been dead by now, in which case the author makes him to be close to a 100 years old.
They’re good if you want something quick to read and yet I never seem to enjoy them as much as I love other authors.
Whether it is simply due to the selection of her books I have read or whether such is the case all over I cannot say.
Whilst she is good at making you question characters it is still quite easy to work out the mysteries well in advance.
That is probably my biggest issue: the predictability of her books.As I’ve said, for me they’re nothing spectacular but they do pass the time.
Mary Higgins Clark is one of my favorite authors when it comes to reading a quick and good mystery novel. This one did not dissapoint me at all.I really liked the plot, the way the mystery that they were dealing with in the present was linked to one that happened in the past was handled perfectly. It was a little bit predictable, I knew who did it half way through this, but it was just so good I enjoyed it anyways. I highly recommend reading one of MHC's novels if you are into mystery novels.
Ugh. This book!The main character is dumber than a brick. She has absolutely has no common sense at all. I can't really picture a community where there is a serial killer on the loose, taking names left and right, and they calmly go on their lives without worrying glances over their shoulders.This book got me so frustrated. Ugh. Just thinking back on it makes me mad.
I started reading her works way back 2006.
On The Street Where You Live by Mary Higgins Clark was the first book I've ever read.
And since then, I started to read all her books.
I became fascinated with Suspense-Mystery Crime Books.
She decided t investigate and find out who was the killer but unknown to her, she’s the next target of the very devious and seductive killer.This was an easy to read fast paced thriller that kept the readers guessing who the real killer was.
Well written with a great plot to keep the readers interested until the very end.This book kept me captivated.After reading this, I definitely want to check out more of Mary Higgins Clark's novels.
On the Street Where You Live is a mystery/suspense novel by Mary Higgins Clark.
Her family sold the house in 1892, after one of Emily's forebears, Madeline Shapley, then a young girl, disappeared.
As the house is renovated and a pool dug, a skeleton is found and identified as Martha Lawrence, a young woman who vanished several years ago.
If you like mystery/suspense novels and don't mind having to figure out who's POV you're reading from I encourage you to try On the Street Where You Live by Mary Higgins Clark.
After reading "Daddy's Little Girl", by Mary Higgins Clark, I was excited to become engrossed in another of her novels.
Kind of eerie, I finished this book today, Saturday, March 31!!Emily Graham, a defense attorney, decides to buy her ancestors' Victorian house in Spring Lake, New Jersey.
This house is where her great, great, grandaunt, Madeline Shapley had lived, and the neighborhood where Madeline mysteriously disappeared in 1891.
There is intrigue with the reincarnation aspect throughout much of the novel.I only gave 2 stars because there are too many side stories, too many characters, and it didn't wrap up neatly enough at the end.
I am not giving up on Mary Higgins Clark.
I've only read one or two of her books before but I found this at a used book sale.
It pulled me in pretty quickly and I'm enjoying it so far.This was better than I expected.
It felt like if I'd read it more awake I might have been able to piece together enough to solve the mystery.
One mystery was revealed to us before the other characters knew and that was fun too because we were able to wait to see how everything would unfold.I've only read one or two of her books before but I'll seek out other ones at used book sales.
She interacts with maybe one neighbor, a Dr. Wilcox, who's a former college president and is doing some major research for a book that he's writing, but like I said, that's only when she needs/wants something.
I enjoyed learning the history of Spring Lake, though I would have liked it more had the author spent more focus on the town and the time instead of the people (but I understand why she didn't, I just wanted more information).
If you're a fan of Mary Higgins Clark, I think you'll enjoy this, if you haven't read it already.
This book for real spooked me! It even gave me crazy dreams. The only problem I had, there were lots of characters and at times it took me a minute to remember who they were and their storyline.
There were many options for the killer in this book, which I love, but there is more than one plot line to follow, which means all the drama in this book could be happening for several reasons.Now to the second part, about listening to murder-mystery audio books.
That may be unhealthy, but it made me fall in love with Mary Higgins Clark for it.I just happened to pick up this audio book at a book sale.
These books are normally cheap, so if you don’t like it, you’re only out a couple of dollars, but at least you tried to expand your reading horizons, right?Do you listen to audio books?
Murder...Mystery...Reincarnation...What more can you ask for in a Mary Higgins Clark novel?Emily Graham has had a rough year.
Emily dives into the case and uncovers a string of unsolved murders not knowing that she has been chosen as the next victim.I loved this book because of the serial killer mystery theme.
I loved reading about the killer's point of view.
Mary Higgins Clark is such a good writer, this book just keeps you at the edge of your seat.
I found myself squirming as I shifted from one suspect to another, clearly trying to determine the murderer before Emily Graham figures it out.
Já tinha ouvido falar muito desta autora, mas nunca tinho lido nenhuma obra sua. Alguma tinha que ser a primeira, e, bem, foi esta. Sinceramente, depois de tantas críticas positivas que li dela, estava à espera de melhor. Quer dizer, gostei, mas esperava que fosse brilhante. Enfim, esteve ali entre o três e o quatro, mas, no fim, dei-lhe o benefício da dúvida. Quando ler outro livro dela, aí tirarei as minhas dúvidas.
definitely recommend this book. great to the last page!!
Another excellent book by Mary Higgins Clark. I have always enjoyed books by this author. Full of twists and turns and always a page turner.
A disappointing effort from Mary Higgins Clark.
The book cover looks like a classic horror theme. I give this book 5 stars.
Picking out and reading this paperback from a rented beach house cured my jet lag! Ludicrous plot and a preposterous body count, but so worth it for the random social sniping and the memory of reading MHC's books as a youngster and thinking they were a fascinating window into ~true sophistication~. Because of this, I laughed aloud at the offhanded mention of the scandalous blonde second wife really sticking it to her hated husband by scuffing a business paper with her "stiletto-heeled bedroom slipper." Just delightful.
Very much enjoyed this mystery/suspense. This is one that keeps you trying to guess, but different twist and turns make more than one person suspects. The mirroring of murders from the 1800's was brilliant. I couldn't stop until I found out who was behind it all.
2,5 *Naja...
At first, I must say I kept a cheat sheet of all the names in this book.
I found it clever how Mary Higgins Clark introduced a super array of characters to keep the guessing game up as to who the murderer was.
The story did drag a wee bit and could have been told in probably 100 fewer pages.
I read the story when I was a young girl in high school and LOVED IT!
It kept me in the story for the few uncomfortable days until my electric came back and I was pleased with the ending.
یک کتاب سرتاسر هیجان! نمی توانی بگذاری زمین! من تمام کتابهای خانم کلارک رو سفارش دادم امروز!
Oh well I have mixed feelings about this book. It started as being A-M-A-Z-I-N-G and super exciting, with interesting characters, a creepy story and no idea of who was the assassin. But unfortunately the ending wasn't at the same level than the rest of the book. It felt like the writer just threw the end.. I didn't have time to panick and it was already over. Besides that the book was great!
nah, 1 orang lagi sedang ditunggu pada tanggal 31 maret, tanggal yang sama dg kematian gadis ketiga seabad yang lalu.Tokoh utama di buku ini ialah Emily, dan dia lah proyeksi korban ketiga pada abad ini.
Gaya cerita si penulis yang terkesan menumpuk berbagai macam motif sungguh sangat membingungkan dan membuat gemas.
Walau pada akhirnya si penulis menceritakan dg jelas apa dan siapa para tokoh dan permasalahan masing-masing, tak ayal jalan cerita yang berputar-putar ini membuat bosan.
Untungnya, twist menjelang akhir buku sangat memuaskan, bagaimana kejahatan ini tercipta dan siapa pelaku pembunuhan yg sebenarnya sungguh membuat berdecak kagum.
Most of Clark’s novels follow the same routine of the damsel in distress somehow getting involved in the murder case, and then finding herself to be one of the victims about to get killed.
In this novel, the killer’s point of view was revealed either at the end or the beginning of each day, allowing the reader to connect to him.
The main thing I learned from the “Queen of Suspense” in this novel is to not have too many insignificant characters, which was one of the parts that caused me confusion.
However, I also learned how to effectively portray the different points of view of the separate characters.
This book was a fast read for me, as I didn't want to put it down LOL.
What she thought would be an easy new beginning, turned into a nightmare more like.She has just purchased a victorian home that was her ancestors over 100 years ago that was sold by the family due to a young girl, Madeline Shapley disappearing.
Come to find out, it was the body of a girl that disappeared a few years ago, and Madeline Shapley!
Like I said, this book was a great read.
