https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77507.Red_Mars
In that I think the book succeeds marvously, because the resulting Martian culture with all its disparate influences seems in many ways believable to me and even in some ways compelling so that I'm sucked into it and want to proclaim my allegiance to the Red or Green tradition, and twitter stories about Big Man and where I was when Boone died around the nuclear powered blog fire.The best part of the story by far is that KSR doesn't attempt to tell a story as big as the colonization of Mars from the prespective a single person.
I found this book to be intensely frustrating, because I had such a love-hate relationship with it.
Certainly I spent the majority of it irritated at the three characters who form the main love triangle of the book.
The descriptions of political alliances that form, the debate over what you should do with a newly habitable planet, and the arguments over whether or not people should even be there, trying to make it habitable are all worth reading.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
wasn’t part of my reading list as it didn’t win the Locus Sci-Fi award (Bujold’s 
But it’s the first book in Robinson's Mars Trilogy, and as the second (
) books both were on the list for winning the award, I felt I needed to read 
As such, when I began my Locus mission I was apprehensive about coming back to pick-up the series.Aside from the Mars trilogy, Robinson had one other book on my list – 
An extremely detailed and ridiculously well researched novel on the colonization of Mars, this book is absolutely maddening.
And the author's exploration of the political implications of a newly habitable planet filled with resources for civilization is at first fascinating and then just boring.
This is Mars!" And occasional flashes of drama are intercut with some of the most boring passages I have ever read; I swear to god at least a fifth of this book was just descriptions of people driving endless distances around Mars and writing about the landscape in flat prose.
With a harsh editing job this could have been a great book.
Hard SF novel about the colonization of Mars.
An initial group of 100 colonists, men and women, is shipped off from Earth to Mars to try to terraform the planet and make it a better fit for human life.
Kim Stanley Robinson explores all of the science involved in doing that, as well as the political collusions and maneuvering involved, and the relationships and psyches of several of the colonists.
I should probably reread it sometime; I'd probably do better with it now than I did back in the 90s when this came out.
John Boone, leads that first expedition in the year 2020, and steps down alone, becoming an icon, the man on Mars, famous everywhere back home, but radiation from the Sun, causes major damage to his body, the deadly rays will always harm humanoids, unless the 4th planet is altered.
John immense prestige at the highest levels on Earth, sends a second visit to Mars, vastly more advanced, than the previous one, with a huge sophisticated spaceship, and 100 passengers inside, biologists , geologists, physicians, astronauts, physicists and builders.
Sax Russell, American physicist, who wants to transform Mars, and make it like Earth.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Going into this book 20 years later, the feeling I had was one of trepidation. Would the book have stood the test of time?And the answer is: Unfortunately no.One of the things that I've noticed almost from the onset was a huge dissonance (I don't remember spotting it 20 years earlier, but now I did): Why plan the mission without firmly establishing at least some sort of general idea about what sort of terraforming might be done?
Instead of re-hashing my own old review (did one at Amazon already yanno), let me offer up this BRILLIANT routine about Jaws 4: The Revenge by the late (and lamentedly so!) Mr. Richard Jeni:"Have you ever seen a movie where they don't even try to have it make sense, they just slap you in the face with how shitty it is?
With buddies!I originally read this way back in the mid-90's and was struck by how brilliant and entertaining it was, of how wide a sweep of characters could bring Mars alive, from inception to travel to the first habitats all the way to the first revolution 30 years down the line.What I remembered with the most love, however, wasn't the characters.
My re-read isn't so much critical of the way the novel felt bloated with people-stuff as it was only wishing that we could do away with all the people altogether.I was almost cheering with every death during the revolution.
The science is fantastic and all the well-researched ways to change Mars still makes me geek out.
The author does an excellent job of making the story and the characters are real as possible and using science to make it all geeky and interesting.
If I did not give this first book of the trilogy a 5-star rating, it is because there were certain plot devices (no specifics given to avoid spoilers but feel free to ask me in the comments or via PM here on GR) that I disagreed with and felt were unnecessary.
Overall, the book is highly engaging and truly makes the reader impatient to read the sequel, Green Mars.
Red Mars looks at the first waves of emigration to Mars, through the eyes of certain members of the First Hundred, the original settlers. The world Kim Stanley Robinson paints is complex, filtered through the perceptions of different people, the politics intense and contentious, even the debate over terraforming itself is depicted with lively wrangling.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
But it felt like I was the only one, and I endured a month of irrational frustration and hurt at the unwitting hands of my group friends.In my head, I knew I shouldn’t be taking things personally, but I couldn’t help feeling angry, frustrated, sad, disappointed and insulted by the opinions of others.
Everything was conspiring against me in that discussion, but through it all I tried to stay neutral and lead the discussion with as little interference or personal opinion as possible.Now that that’s off my chest, I can get to Red Mars.
As an avid reader of Science Fiction, this book bored me to tears with its utterly one dimensional characters and utterly predictable plot (once one figured out, in the first 50 pages or so, that the characters were entirely linear and incapable of deviation from their preassigned courses).
I can't comment on the geology).The one-dimensional characters are also bewilderingly incompetent, even along their portrayed expertises - perhaps best highlighted by the overly detailed, pages long account of the "plucky engineer" risking life and limb in a desperate move to add supplemental solar panels to add even a whisper of additional power for her electric dirigible in a wind storm -- a dirigible which is carrying a cargo of ...wait for it...
(You might even really want a giant technical manual describing the colonization of Mars, in which case this would be a 4-5 star book for you.) But if you care about economics at all, then this is a 1-star book only because GoodReads doesn't allow you to give negative stars.I don't mind political sci-fi, whether I tend to agree with it (as in The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress) or disagree with it (as in The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia).
5.0 to 5.5 stars. It has been said before but it bears repeating...this is the BEST NOVEL on the colonization of Mars that has ever been written. For all of the technical informaiton conveyed and the "hard science" employed, the book is amazingly readable and the characters are very well drawn. Winner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1994)Winner: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1993)Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1993)Nominee: Arthur C. Clarke Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1993)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1993)
This was SO good! This is epic hard sci fi, where everything is large scale. It never lagged, I was always interested in each character and part of the story, and the final third was intense, exciting, and emotional. I can't wait for Green Mars!
Red Mars seems to synthesize elements from all of Robinson's predecessors — it's a Heinleinesque adventure at times, with hard SF infodumps, but actual characters, and shout-outs to every author who's ever touched Mars, including Burroughs.Red Mars is the tale of the first Martian colony, and covers a couple of generations of history.
It is almost certainly not an accurate picture of what will actually happen, should we ever get that far, but it's a realistic picture of what could happen.I give this book 4 stars for being one of the best Mars books out there, but 3 stars for enjoyment, because the story and the characters just did not grab me enough to wonder, "What happens next?" So, a 3.5 star book.
Some interesting plot events (the space elevator, its destruction, the interplay between Earth and its "colony", some of the practical concerns about living on Mars [but not bathrooms]) cannot paper over the enormity of this book's mediocrity.
Consistently boring word choice, ideas that get argued but not connected, looong descriptions of landscape that add nothing to the story, regular use of the run-on sentence and a general use of 10 words when one will do (JK Rowlings's editor...?).
One of the key protagonists is plucked out of the story by a bit of bad geriatric driving.
I know Robinson named a town in this book after you, but I don't get the hype.
There's a murder plot underfoot, the motive of which gets explained afterwards by a jump back in time to how the first 100 engineers and scientists had been sent to Mars to enable colonization in the first place.After a bit more than half the book, the story picks up after the murder and we progress forward.You see, the problem is less getting to Mars and getting to work.
That is how immersive this book can be, though it is not actually quite so engrossing throughout every page but even to attain that level of engrossment at times is a significant achievement by the author.I believe this is one of the most popular sf series ever, I have certainly seen it in many "best of" lists, each book in the series has awards up the wazoo.
Interestingly considering that Red Mars is very hard sf, KSR clearly has a lot of respect to the Mars themed scifi classics like Bradbury's The Martian Chronicles and Edgar Rice Burroughs's Barsoom / Mars books.
Clarke hailed it as "The best novel on the colonization of Mars that has every been written." I don't know how big or how seriously competitive that field is, but I can say that is the best novel on the colonization of Mars that I have ever read.With 600 pages of narrative you expect some character development, a sense of history, and a good plot.
(That feeling could return if I read the next two in the series.) Critics praise Robinson for writing hard sf, science fiction where the writer uses a serious scientific background to develop the plot.
It is a wonderful mix of science and political science, which is a rare combination in most sci-fi books.Red Mars is a story that takes place over several decades.
When humanity does eventually begin the settlement process on Mars, I am sure the vast majority of the development will mirror many of the things in this book.
While the politics side has some issues, overall it is well done and does reflect the likely outcome of different peoples supported by different countries.As far as the characters, the main ones- John Boone, Frank Chalmers, Maya, Nadia, etc...none of them are particularly likeable.
Everything from his descriptions of the clouds to his formula for transforming the atmosphere into something breathable are very accurate based on available information, and it was fascinating to read someone's best guess of how we would actually pull off the complicated project of settling Mars.
Robinson switches to different charaters' perspectives throughout the story, not only developing a very interesting cast of characters, but also sprinkling information about the characters' specialty areas - psychology, engineering, planetology, economics, government etc - throught their narratives, again amazing me with his vast amount of knowledge.
There were actually a couple of equations and diagrams, so if that kind of stuff gives you a rash, strike this book from your TBR.Now, I’m generally a preferential fantasy reader, but I’m also a fan of science fiction, even occasionally this kind of technical science fiction, but I found the amount of detail about the building of things, the science of trying to change the atmosphere, the geology, etc., to be a bit excessive.
If all the science-y stuff really turns your crank, you will love Red Mars.This author could really have taken some lessons on describing landscapes from Zane Grey.
The two Russian women followed throughout the book are polar opposites—Maya is beautiful, emotional, flighty, and manipulative, while Nadia is plain, practical, solid, and steady.
It's just that the specific reality he's trying to document happens to be the first human colony on Mars, which, if you haven't been keeping up, does not actually exist."Hard SF" is usually how people categorize this book, a term with no particularly "hard" definition itself, but which generally describes scifi with a commitment to plausibility given current knowledge: no faster-than-light travel, no time warping, and dear lord no mystical "forces" that let you choke enemies from across tables and convince storm troopers that the droids in your speeder, the droids that match the description the storm troopers were given with remarkable exactitude, are not, in fact, the droids for which they are looking.
Despite being written in the relatively recent 1990s, many science-fiction fans consider Kim Stanley Robinson's "Mars" trilogy to be some of the most important books ever written in the genre's history, three books that chronicle the first thousand years of humans colonizing the red planet, starting with the touchdown of the first explorers and finishing with the complete terraforming of the environment into an Earth-like atmosphere and green-covered landscape.
Red Mars taught me, more effectively than any other book I can remember, that detailed description of a place your readers have never been does not serve to make it more real.
Because what they should be doing is reading the draft of this mess and diplomatically suggesting "I think you can effectively convey your particular vision of the planet -- without math, Geimas semantic rectangles, and this avalanche of description -- while still leaving your readers some room for their own imagination of what it's like."So much time is spent on extraneous detail, that the story itself gets lost.
Or, more aptly, the untethered elevator cable that frees me from further reading of Robinson's verbose ramblings about Mars, be it Red, Blue or Green.
DNF @ 50%
Not because of the detail that Robinson goes into describing the colonisation process, the geography and landscapes of Mars or the details of the science involved in terraforming but because the style of the writing is just a bit flat and perfunctory.
In some ways this book is the antithesis of The Martian, which in comparison to this was perhaps a little over-exuberant in tone, but dealt with important issues like generating oxygen and water, getting plants to grow in Martian soil, managing human waste and recycling.
Red Mars is a fantastic beginning to Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy. The book is part science, part character study and a lot of adventure as mankind colonizes (and begins to change) the red planet. But it's not just Mars which is changed. Those who colonize Mars are profoundly impacted by the new environment as are the next generation (the real Martians who might be part of mankind's future?). Red Mars is not always an easy read, but it has a big payoff for those who stick with it! And the next two books are great!
