https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5129.Brave_New_World
Look for the irony of the italicized parts when compared to the previous statements.) If you post a comment that asserts that I'm wrong/ stupid/ crazy for this and/or try to lecture me on all the points you think I missed then I'm going to assume that you read it literally, missed the joke, didn't read the other comments where I've already answered this about a dozen times, and I will delete your post.
The population is also programmed to be constantly partaking of some form of entertainment and to never just sit quietly and think I’m bored.
I need to parse my rating of this book into the good (or great), the bad and the very  fugly because I thought aspects of it were inspired genius and parts of it were dreggy, boring and living near the border of awful. In the end, the wowness and importance of the novel's ideas as well as the segments that I thoroughly enjoyed carried the book to a strong 3.5 star rating.THE REALLY GOOD/EXCELLENT - I loved the first third of the book in which the basic outline of the "Brave New World" and its d
I need to parse my rating of this book into the good (or great), the bad and the very  fugly because I thought aspects of it were inspired genius and parts of it were dreggy, boring and living near the border of awful.
In the end, the wowness and importance of the novel's ideas as well as the segments that I thoroughly enjoyed carried the book to a strong 3.5 star rating.THE REALLY GOOD/EXCELLENT - I loved the first third of the book in which the basic outline of the "Brave New World" and its devalued, conveyer belt morality is set forth.
when everybody sat around secretly thinking of cute and witty things to put in other people's yearbooks?
by the way, i did NOT get to sit next to chris, which is probably good because i would have been mortified and choked on a pez) anyway, the presentation was fun, but i didn't get around to reading my (now ex) boyfriends copy until a year ago.
and i started getting a small, evil thought exactly the same as i had in class so many years ago...
In this light, I will give the last word to Neil Postman, who discussed the differences between Orwell and Huxley's views of the future: "What Orwell feared were those who would ban books.
What Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one.
As Huxley remarked in 'Brave New World revisited,' the civil libertarians and rationalists who are ever on the alert to oppose tyranny 'failed to take into account man's almost infinite appetite for distractions.' In 'Nineteen Eighty-Four' people are controlled by inflicting pain.
My first post for this book was a quote and a gif of Dean from Supernatural rolling his eyes and passing out.
It's been going on for SIX YEARS now.
So I will: This is still one of the most boring emotionless books I have ever read.
After all the hullabaloo with my original post, I borrowed Brave New World from my local library with the intention of reading it again to give a more detailed review for those freaking out in the comments.
The Globalization of World Politics was more enjoyable than this book.
It's basically a book about the utopian ideal - everyone's happy, everyone has what they want and EVERYTHING is based on logical principles.
It should be read hand in hand with Mill's Utilitarianism to get a good idea of the philosophy that inspired it.Incidentally, I gave this book to my boyfriend as a present for his 18th birthday ( a rather depressing gift I know).
I don't know why this should be but I'll hazard a guess that as you get older you're idea of "happiness" becomes perhaps more complex, making the ideal of "Brave New World" even more disturbing.
I am I, and I wish I weren't. إن كان راي برادبوري في روايته الأشهرقد اخترع عالما تُحرق فيه الكتبفهسكلي قبله بسنوات طويلة توصل إلى فكرة أشد شناعةففي عالمه الناس لا تُمنع من القراءة فهم أصلا لا يرغبوا فيها ولا يعرفوا لها قيمة أو معنى :::::::::::::::تخيل نفسك تعيش هنا في هذا العالم عالم السعادة الزائفة .. سعادة العقاقيرعالم يبتسم فيه الجميع عالم ألمه مخدر وعقله مغيبعالم بلا مشاعر أو علاقات إنسانية عالم يقوم على التقسيم الطبقي البحث عالم خال من العاطفة والجمالتصور أننا صرنا أجنة مرصوصين في القواريرن
إنه عالم ينشد سعادة آلية ‏همست بها أزار إلكترونية في أذنيه منذ مولدهفبات لا يعلم عن شيء سواهالا فن لا دين لا أدب لا حب لا أسرةوأيضا لا حزن لا ألم لا معاناة لا فقرهذه أشياء لا يفهم لها معنى:::::::::::::::وعلى الجانب الآخر هناك مجتمع الهمج المنبوذ الذي يتكاثر بطريقة ‏طبيعية ويعرف عن معنى الله والأسرة والحب والخوفوالذي منه يطل أمل يائسفلربما تتغير الأوضاع يوماأو تحدث ثورة من نوع ماعلى الأقل هذا ما يدور في ذهنك أثناء القراءةولكن أملك يخيب مع نظرة هكسلي اليائسةوتنتهي الرواية بنهاية أكثر بؤسا من أحداث الرواية:::::::::::::::‏ فالمدينة الفاضلة الخالية من الروحالمغرقة في المادة لا تزال هنامبتسمة في سخرية وهي ترمق جثة جون المشنوقةوالشعب لا يزال يبتسمفحبوب السعادة تكفي لإلهائهم عن الحقيقةإنه شعب لا يحتاج قوة ليُحكم ‏لقد تم تكييفهم منذ البداية على الاستسلام‏ولكن الباب لم يغلق بعدعلك تريد الهروب من هذه الآلة الكبرىعلك تريد العودة إلى كل ما هو حار وحقيقي ومؤلعلّك ..
I want sin.”First published in 1932, this is timeless and is as relevant today as when it was first written.
Truth be said, this could be published today and would be just as good, it rises to the challenge and then towers above it.“If one's different, one's bound to be lonely.”Everyday life makes me think of this book all the time.
Huxley does more than describe a bleak and cynical post-apocalyptic or dystopian world, he looks a dystopian resident in the eye and puts before him a mirror to flesh out what is real and unreal.
Further, Huxley has turned that same mirror on the reader and we see in his far future fantasy a reality that could be today.
“But I don't want comfort. I want God, I want poetry, I want real danger, I want freedom, I want goodness. I want sin.”   These are words uttered in the face of tyranny and complete oppression, though they are very rare words to be spoken or even thought of in this world because every human passion and sense of creativity is repressed and eradicated through a long and complex process of conditioning.And that’s what makes this novel so powerful; it’s not unbelievable. Like Orwell’s 1984 and Atw
Sex is on tap, everybody should be happy.People don’t go missing in the night nor are they stoned to death by a group of their peers, but they have just as little freedom (even if they don’t realise it.) In this dystopia they are trained from birth to think and feel in a certain way, and, for whatever reason, should they ever deviate from their ordained path, they are fed drugs that induce happiness and serenity; thus, the populace is kept within their desired space, and persist with the tasks they were born to do.
However, the attempt falls short, as Mond has concise answers to all of the Savage's questions, and the Savage lacks the education and/or intellectual power to find reason behind his feelings.During the conversation, Mond refers to philosopher Francis Bradley and credits him with the idea that philosophy is "the finding of bad reason for what one believes by instinct." Perhaps this inclusion is intended to convey that Huxley agrees and will make no attempt to manufacture a "bad reason" why the world he created is evil.
and I’m sure I didn’t understand the full depths of this book - which was written 21 years before I was born....even I can see Aldous Huxley had a brilliant mind.
There were five castes: alpha, beta, (THE LUCKY SUCKERS).....and delta, gamma, and epsilon.....(the SORRY SUCKERS)......Oh but wait the SORRY SUCKERS won’t feel sorry for themselves because this is utopia....where everybody is made to be happy - as all personal identity has vanished.
However ...seems like I shouldn’t worry about it all according to the brilliant man himself...Aldous Huxley!
Brave New World is a vision of the future where science will (at last) be put full time into the service of our needs. Some of the ideas might seem a little controversial (because of our preconceived ideas) but we must be open minded...!  SEX. Biology teaches that sex is meant to be had. To put restrictions on sex is as silly as putting restrictions on which chair to sit. And like chairs, women are meant to be pneumatic. "Oh, she’s a splendid girl. Wonderfully pneumatic. I’m surprised you have
Brave New World is a vision of the future where science will (at last) be put full time into the service of our needs.
And like chairs, women are meant to be pneumatic.
Thus it is only natural that Science should offer a chemical solution.
And, although there is little danger of anyone actually reading Shakespeare, his works are especially egregious in provoking time wasting thoughts."Do they read Shakespeare?" asked the Savage as they walked, on their way to the Bio-chemical Laboratories, past the School Library.
Let it be in science.
It is a world without love.
649. Brave New World, Aldous HuxleyBrave New World is a dystopian novel by English author Aldous Huxley. Published in 1932, it propounds that economic chaos and unemployment will cause a radical reaction in the form of an international scientific empire that manufactures its citizens in the laboratory on a eugenic basis, without the need for human intercourse.عنوانها: دنیای قشنگ نو؛ دنیای شگفت انگیز نو؛ نویسنده: آلدوس هاکسلی؛ (پیام ، نیلوفر) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سوم ماه آوریل سال 2000 میل

"Infants where feeling and desire are concerned."The reliable drug - soma - which makes sure that society's stability is not threatened, the focus on entertainment which requires people to spend money on gadgets that keep the economy working, the sexual control mechanisms (for promiscuity is just as limiting as marriage or chastity if you are not given any choice), the early childhood social conditioning in addition to biological selection processes - it all leaves a bitter taste as it rings too many bells.The part of the plot I found difficult to swallow was the juxtaposition of the scientifically perfected "utopia" of drug-induced happiness with the dirty "natural" world of the savages, who follow absurdly ancient rituals.
When he visits a Savage reservation, his eyes are opened and he brings one of the savages back to England with him...As I continue my bleak science fiction parade toward the new year, I wonder why I've never read Brave New World before.In Brave New World, Aldous Huxley takes on consumerism, the media, genetic engineering, recreational drugs, religion, herd mentality, individualism, and lots of other socially relevant topics, weaving them into a science fiction setting that our world resembles more every day.The setting and society are the stars of the show in Brave New World.
Brave New World is a classic written to make its readers uncomfortable.
No wonder, as this was written by the author of The Doors of Perception about mescaline effects on the mind - an interesting read, by the way.Of the classic trio of dystopian books (this one, Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four and Zamyatin's We) this one is my least favorite (We is the best, in my opinion, and may have actually inspired this one).
Brave New World succeeds at portraying dystopia at its worst and making the reader think, but stilted language and moral heavy-handedness take away from the enjoyment.
آیا دنیای ما بیشتر شبیه 1984 جورج اورول است، یا دنیای قشنگ نوی آلدوس هاکسلی؟اورول از آدم هایی می ترسید که کتاب ها را ممنوع می کنند.اما هاکسلی از این می ترسید که دلیلی برای ممنوع کردن کتاب وجود نداشته باشد، چون اصلاً کسی خودش نخواهد که بخواند.اورول از کسانی می ترسید که ما را از دسترسی به اطلاعات محروم کنند.اما هاکسلی از این می ترسید که کسانی آن قدر ما را غرق در اطلاعات کنند که ذهن ما مصرف کنندۀ غیرفعّال اطلاعات شود، یا تبدیل به آدم های سطحی خودشیفته شویم.اورول از این می ترسید که حقیقت از ما پنهان شود.هاکسلی هراس داشت که حقیقت در انبوهی از اخبار بی اهمیت دیگر پنهان شود.اورول می ترسید که ملت ها اسیر و دربند شوند.
about 120 pages, the story becomes very boring, since it is mostly the feelings of the protagonists. However, this attempt to identify me emotionally with the characters did not touch, since it is quite bizarre.So I felt more like having a classical drama in a modern world in front of me.Fazit: quite weak translation into German, grammar partly catastrophic, so sentences lose their meaning.
What do they do?Are they like many tics, crawling over me and you?Do they help society?
Looking out for number oneSelf preservation, like Wormtongue, in the Lord Of The Rings, dancing to Saramon's songAn Arse licker, a pet, a hanger on, hoping to belongSo who are the politicians?
What do they actually do?Nothing, they only build imaginary walls, to trap me and youThey are tics, parasites, like flies on a turd, eating shitThen regurgitating, spewing all the rhetoric and propaganda over me and you.
I finally managed to finish the dystopian classics triangle - 1984, Fahrenheit 451 and Brave new World.
I finally got that somewhat lost feeling of total happiness when reading a book, that tingle in the pleasure receptors when you find a great book.
Even though I recently read many books that I loved I seem to have lost that feeling of satisfaction when being face to face with an IT book.
Although I was happy that I read more and that I managed to finish books that I wanted to read for a long time the intensity of the feelings that reading stir in me had diminished.
Sometimes a book just isn’t what you want it to be.There is little doubt that Brave New World is a genre classic, heavily contributing to defining the dystopian genre.
There is just as little doubt that Aldous Huxley was an important influence on some of the writers I respect the most, among them George Orwell and Steven Runciman, both of whom were Huxley’s students at the University of Cambridge.Unfortunately, I found nothing to appreciate about it.Maybe my general distaste for dystopia hit me like a wave.
Because it was an important book when it was first released, because it has remained so through the years, and because it contributed to building the foundation that so many later books of considerably higher quality now stand on.
I am assuming that the majority of individuals that rate this book high on a novel list or 5 star it on here on amazon do so simply because A Brave New World is filled with satire in a dystopian society.
The main character "Savage" does not show up until half way through the book.
Unfortunately the humanistic undertones will lead many an individual down slippery slopes Entertainment/Education value: 1 out of 5 stars.
I do not see any education value in this book aside from how to write satire or how to write a novel to inspire a nation of conspiracy theorists.
No one dared to think, much less talk about test-tube children and sensory terminals were unimaginable, mankind had barely gotten used to the use of the telephone, there was no television, cinema was a work recently released by the genius Chaplin, still in black and white and mute.In the book, Aldous makes special mention of a region that would have been shielded from the power of the state, where wholly savage people lived, preserving customs of food, sex, and freedom unrelated to the present stage, this paradisiacal place, described by Huxley, in that fiction written in the moments of his hallucination, was Brazil, with its forests and people.
This book is frightening. I'll take it to my classroom and subject the innocents to it.
Such a happy tale. Now I remember why I don't read dystopia all that often, it's depressing as motherfuck. I liked this novel but I do think it's the weakest out of the Big Dystopia 3 (the other two being Nineteen Eighty-Four and Fahrenheit 451). I'd recommend it on the basis of just how innovative and subversive this novel really is, along with a good plot and an interesting world. Don't read this if you're feeling shitty though, oh god.

We decant our babies as socialized human beings, as Alphas or Epsilons, as future sewage workers or future …" He was going to say "future World controllers," but correcting himself, said "future Directors of Hatcheries," instead.(c)Q:"Nothing like oxygen-shortage for keeping an embryo below par." Again he rubbed his hands."But why do you want to keep the embryo below par?" asked an ingenuous student."Ass!" said the Director, breaking a long silence.
O, wonder!How many goodly creatures are there here!How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,That has such people in't! Miranda, The Temptest, William ShakespeareRead as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.My reading of this book has been an adventure in itself, not just in a metaphorical sense but in an incredibly boring physical adventure. I began it in September, but then I was marvellously interrupted by the 2016 Rio Olympics and that p
The continuing plundering of hate and fear-mongering by the media is in evident now as it is in Brave New World, though who is doing the peddling is a little different.
We all need to consume to live, but we don't need to consume as much as they do in Brave New World.
Thinking is good and it should be actively encouraged, but there are times when thinking is not always enough and, once opinions are formed, some kind of semblance of what should come next is needed."Actual happiness always looks pretty squalid in comparison with the over-compensations for misery...
Would you enjoy those “unspeakable pains”?We’re already living in a semi-Brave New World, taking enough Soma to remain happy, content and well-off to the best of our capabilities, taking pride in the mundane sorrows that continually plague our soft minds, venting our worries on GR, and for that added kick of Aristotelian catharsis, read something really horrible and thank our stars for escaping that fate.No, I’m not accusing ourselves of shallowness or any indignation you feel for me right now – for there are many of us who suffer quietly, mourn our own fates silently, taking solace in the little joys that can never liberate us from our shackles of grief.
To cut a long story short, the inescapable destiny of every society is to morph into a dystopia. Alternatively, a biting satire on capitalism and consumerism.
